{"id": "5530648", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5530648", "title": "Anarchist Communist Youth Association of Narva", "text": "Anarchist Communist Youth Association of Narva\n\nAnarchist Communist Youth Association of Narva (in Estonian: \"Narva Anarhistlik-Kommunistlik Noorte Ühing\") was a political youth movement in Narva, Estonia, at the time of the October Revolution.\n"}
{"id": "802340", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=802340", "title": "Anfal genocide", "text": "Anfal genocide\n\nThe Anfal genocide was a genocide that killed between 50,000 and 182,000 Kurds. It was committed during the Al-Anfal campaign (Harakat al-Anfal/Homleh al-Anfal) () () led by Ali Hassan al-Majid against Kurdistan in northern Iraq during the final stages of the Iran–Iraq War.\n\nThe campaign's name was from Sura 8 (al-Anfal) in the Qur'an, which was used as a code name by the former Iraqi Ba'athist Government for a series of systematic attacks against the Kurdish fighters in northern Iraq between 1986 and 1989, with the peak in 1988. Sweden, Norway, and the United Kingdom officially recognize the Anfal campaign as genocide.\n\nThe genocide was part of the destruction of Kurdish villages during the Iraqi Arabization campaign.\n\nAl-Anfal is the eighth sura, or chapter, of the Qur'an. It explains the triumph of 313 followers of the new Muslim faith over almost 900 pagans at the Battle of Badr in 624 AD. \"Al Anfal\" literally means \"the spoils (of war)\" and was used to describe the military campaign of extermination and looting commanded by Ali Hassan al-Majid. His orders informed \"jash\" (literally \"donkey's foal\" in Kurdish) units that taking cattle, sheep, goats, money, weapons and even Kurdish women was legal.\n\nThe Anfal campaign began in 1986, and lasted until 1989, and was headed by Ali Hassan al-Majid, a cousin of Iraqi President Saddam Hussein from Saddam's hometown of Tikrit. The Anfal campaign included the use of ground offensives, aerial bombing, systematic destruction of settlements, mass deportation, firing squads, and chemical warfare, which earned al-Majid the nickname of \"Chemical Ali\".\n\nThousands of civilians were killed during the anti-insurgent campaigns stretching from the northern spring of 1987, to the northern fall of 1988. The attacks were part of a long campaign that destroyed approximately 4,500 Kurdish and at least 31 Assyrian Christian villages in areas of northern Iraq and displaced at least a million of the country's estimated 3.5 million Kurdish population. Amnesty International collected the names of more than 17,000 people who had \"disappeared\" in 1988. The campaign has been characterized as genocidal in nature. It is also characterized as gendercidal, because \"battle-age\" men were the primary targets, according to Human Rights Watch/Middle East. According to the Iraqi prosecutors and Kurdish officials, as many as 180,000 people were killed.\n\nUnder U.S. President Ronald Reagan, the United States continued to aid Iraq after reports of the use of poison gas on Kurdish civilians.\n\nIn March 1987, Ali Hassan al-Majid was appointed secretary-general of the Ba'ath Party's Northern Region, which included Iraqi Kurdistan. Under al-Majid, control of policies against the Kurdish insurgents passed from the Iraqi Army to the Ba'ath Party itself. It would be known as \"al-Anfal\" (\"The Spoils\"), in a reference to the eighth sura of the Qur'an.\n\nAnfal, officially conducted in 1988, would have eight stages altogether, seven of which targeted areas controlled by the Patriotic Union of Kurdistan. The Kurdish Democratic Party-controlled areas in the northwest of Iraqi Kurdistan, which the regime regarded as a lesser threat, were the target of the Final Anfal operation in late August and early September, 1988. For those assaults, the Iraqis mustered up to 200,000 soldiers with air support, against Kurdish guerrilla forces that numbered no more than a few thousand.\n\nOn 16 March 1988, there was a poison gas attack on the city of Halabja in which 3,200–5,000 Kurdish people were killed, most of them civilians.\n\nWhen captured, Kurdish populations were transported to detention centers (notably Topzawa, near the city of Kirkuk), and adult and teenage males viewed as possible insurgents were separated from the civilians. According to Human Rights Watch/Middle East,\n\nAfter a few days in the camps, the men accused of being insurgents were trucked off to be killed in mass executions.\n\nIn its book \"Iraq's Crime of Genocide\", Human Rights Watch/Middle East writes: \"Throughout Iraqi Kurdistan, although women and children vanished in certain clearly defined areas, adult males who were captured disappeared in mass. ... It is apparent that a principal purpose of Anfal was to exterminate all adult males of military service age captured in rural Iraqi Kurdistan.\" (pp. 96, 170). Only a handful survived the execution squads. Even amidst this most systematic slaughter of adult men and boys, however, \"hundreds of women and young children perished, too,\" but \"the causes of their deaths were different—gassing, starvation, exposure, and willful neglect—rather than bullets fired from a Kalashnikov.\" (\"Iraq's Crime of Genocide\", p. 191.) Nevertheless, on 1 September 2004, U.S. forces in Iraq discovered hundreds of bodies of Kurdish women and children at the site near al-Hatra, who are believed to be executed in early 1988, or late 1987.\n\nThe focus of the Iraqi killing campaign varied from one stage of Anfal to another. The most exclusive targeting of the male population occurred during the final Anfal (25 August – 6 September 1988). It was launched immediately after the signing of a ceasefire with Iran, which allowed the transfer of large numbers of men and amount of matériel from the southern battlefronts. The final Anfal focused on \"the steep, narrow valleys of Badinan, a four-thousand-square mile (10,360 km²) chunk of the Zagros Mountains bounded on the east by the Great Zab and on the north by Turkey.\" There, uniquely in the Anfal campaigns, lists of the \"disappeared\" provided to Human Rights Watch/Middle East by survivors \"invariably included only adult and teenage males, with the single exception of Assyrians and Yezidi Kurds,\" who were subsidiary targets of the slaughter. Many of the men of Badinan did not even make it as far as \"processing\" stations but were simply \"lined up and murdered at their point of capture, summarily executed by firing squads on the authority of a local military officer.\" (\"Iraq's Crime of Genocide\", pp. 178, 190, 192; on the fate of the Christians and Yezidi Kurds, see pp. 209–13.)\n\nOn 20 June 1987, Directive SF/4008 was issued, under al-Majid's signature. Of greatest significance is clause 5. Referring to those areas designated \"prohibited zones,\" al-Majid ordered that \"all persons captured in those villages shall be detained and interrogated by the security services and those between the ages of 15 and 70 shall be executed after any useful information has been obtained from them, of which we should be duly notified.\" However, it seems clear from the application of the policy that it referred only to males \"between the ages of 15 and 70.\" Human Rights Watch/Middle East takes that as given and writes that clause 5's \"order [was] to kill all adult males\" and later writes: \"Under the terms of al-Majid's June 1987, directives, death was the automatic penalty for any male of an age to bear arms who was found in an Anfal area.\" (\"Iraq's Crime of Genocide\", pp. 11, 14.) A subsequent directive on 6 September 1987, supports this conclusion: it calls for \"the deportation of... families to the areas where there saboteur relatives are..., except for the male [members], between the ages of 12 inclusive and 50 inclusive, who must be detained.\" (Cited in \"Iraq's Crime of Genocide\", p. 298.)\n\n\"Arabization,\" another major element of al-Anfal, was a tactic used by Saddam Hussein's regime to drive pro-insurgent populations out of their homes in villages and cities like Kirkuk, which are in the valuable oil field areas, and relocate them in the southern parts of Iraq. The campaign used heavy population redistribution, most notably in Kirkuk, the results of which now plague negotiations between Iraq's Shi'a United Iraqi Alliance and the Kurdish Kurdistani Alliance. Saddam's Ba'athist regime built several public housing facilities in Kirkuk as part of his \"Arabization,\" shifting poor Arabs from Iraq's southern regions to Kirkuk with the lure of inexpensive housing.\n\nIraq's Kurds now strongly resent Arabs still residing in Ba'ath-era Kirkuk housing and view them as a barrier to Kirkuk's recognition as a Kurdish city (and regional seat) in the then-increasingly sovereign Kurdish Autonomous Region, which started relying more and more on the central Iraqi government, especially after it fell into economic crisis and the brutal murder of its own citizens by the KRG.\n\nIn August 2013, after many years of relationship-building, Imani Lee Language Services entered a multi-year and multi-phased agreement with the Kurdistan Regional Government (KRG), a self-proclaimed autonomous state within the borders of Iraq, on an important project of historical significance.\n\nThe first phase of the project concerned the translation of historical documents related to the events that happened in Halabja, Kurdistan, Iraq on 16 March 1988, when Saddam Hussein’s regime bombed the entire district with chemical weapons in the closing days of the Iran–Iraq War, resulting in the deaths of an estimated 5,000 Kurds. The attack on Halabja has been well-documented as being the single most brutal attack of the regime as well as the deadliest chemical weapons attack against a civilian population in the history of the world. Today, many of the living Kurdish civilians affected by the chemical attack still suffer from various illnesses both psychological and physical in addition to the birth defects of their progeny.\n\nFor years, the victims of the attack and the KRG have tried to tell their story to the rest of the world. Their effort has included petitioning international countries to recognize the attack as an official act of genocide.\n\nThe Kurdish Genocide has been published in Halabja: Facing the Poisons of Death, A Legal Reading of the Event and the Supreme Iraqi Criminal Court Documents, authored by Bakr Hamah Seddik Arif, a lawyer and member of the Iraqi Parliament.\n\nAccording to Human Rights Watch, during the Anfal campaign, the Iraqi government did the following:\n\nThe campaigns of 1987–89 were characterized by the following human rights violations:\n\nIn December 2005 a court in The Hague convicted Frans van Anraat of complicity in war crimes for his role in selling chemical weapons to the Iraqi government. He was given a 15-year sentence. The court also ruled that the killing of thousands of Kurds in Iraq in the 1980s was indeed an act of genocide. In the 1948 Genocide Convention, the definition of genocide is \"acts committed with the intent to destroy, in whole or in part, a national, ethnic, racial or religious group\". The Dutch court said that it was considered \"legally and convincingly proven that the Kurdish population meets the requirement under the Genocide Conventions as an ethnic group. The court has no other conclusion than that these attacks were committed with the intent to destroy the Kurdish population of Iraq\".\n\nIn an interview broadcast on Iraqi television on 6 September 2005, Iraqi President Jalal Talabani, a respected Kurdish politician, said that judges had directly extracted confessions from Saddam Hussein that he had ordered mass killings and other crimes during his regime and that he deserves to die. Two days later, Saddam's lawyer denied that he had confessed.\n\nIn June 2006, the Iraqi Special Tribunal announced that Saddam Hussein and six co-defendants would face trial on 21 August 2006, in relation to the Anfal campaign. In December 2006, Saddam was put on trial for the genocide during Operation Anfal. The trial for the Anfal campaign was still underway on 30 December 2006, when Saddam Hussein was executed for his role in the unrelated Dujail Massacre.\n\nThe Anfal trial recessed on 21 December 2006, and when it resumed on 8 January 2007, the remaining charges against Saddam Hussein were dropped. Six co-defendants continued to stand trial for their roles in the Anfal campaign. On 23 June 2007, Ali Hassan al-Majid, and two co-defendants, Sultan Hashem Ahmed and Hussein Rashid Mohammed l, were convicted of genocide and related charges and sentenced to death by hanging. Another two co-defendants (Farhan Jubouri and Saber Abdel Aziz al-Douri) were sentenced to life imprisonment, and one (Taher Tawfiq al-Ani) was acquitted on the prosecution's demand.\n\nAl-Majid was charged with war crimes, crimes against humanity and genocide. He was convicted in June 2007, and was sentenced to death. His appeal of the death sentence was rejected on 4 September 2007, he was sentenced to death for the fourth time on 17 January 2010, and was hanged eight days later, on 25 January 2010.\n\nThe Kurdistan Regional Government has set aside 14 April as a day of remembrance for the Al-Anfal campaign.\n\nOn 5 December 2012, Sweden's parliament, the Riksdag, adopted a resolution by the Green party to officially recognize Anfal as genocide. The resolution was passed by all 349 members of parliament. On 28 February 2013, the British House of Commons formally recognized the Anfal as genocide following a campaign led by Conservative MP Nadhim Zahawi, who is of Kurdish descent\n\n\n36. ^Documenting the Kurdish Genocide – https://www.journalscene.com/article/20140131/SJ02/140139940/1048. 31 January 2014\n\n"}
{"id": "339498", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=339498", "title": "Anson Chan", "text": "Anson Chan\n\nAnson Maria Elizabeth Chan Fang On-sang, GBM, GCMG, CBE, JP (; born 17 January 1940) is a Hong Kong politician and civil servant who served as Chief Secretary in both the British colonial government of Hong Kong and the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region government under the Chinese sovereignty. She was also an elected member of the Legislative Council of Hong Kong for Hong Kong Island between 2007 and 2008.\n\nBorn one of twins in Shanghai, Chan was educated at Hong Kong's Sacred Heart Canossian College (formerly known as Italian Convent School and Sacred Heart School) and the University of Hong Kong. She also studied at Tufts University in Massachusetts in the United States.\n\nChan's father, Fang Shin-hau (), a textile manufacturer, moved the family to Hong Kong in 1948. Her mother Fang Zhaoling was a Chinese painting master. Her grandfather, Fang Zhenwu, was a Kuomintang general who fought against the Japanese invasion. Her uncle, Sir Harry Fang Sin-yang was a well-known orthopaedic surgeon and served as an appointed member of the Legislative Council from 1974 to 1985.\n\nWhen she was only ten, Chan's father died suddenly aged 36, leaving her mother with eight young children: twins Anson and Ninson and six brothers. With the support of Chan's grandmother, her mother not only shouldered the responsibility of raising her children, but also tried to pursue her career as an artist. She took two of her sons to study in England, leaving Chan and her five other siblings in Hong Kong with their grandmother and Uncle Harry.\n\nUnder her grandmother's strict discipline and high expectations, Chan learned that she had a duty towards the family and the community and was expected to be upright, diligent and righteous. She put herself through university by working as a private tutor and for a year as a clerk at Queen Mary Hospital. In 1959, Chan entered the University of Hong Kong to study English literature. Along with studies, she was keen on amateur dramatics, and it was through this that she met her future husband, Archibald (Archie) Chan Tai-wing.\n\nShe began work on a social work diploma, but later changed her mind and joined the Hong Kong Civil Service in 1962, one of only two women to join the civil service at that time. The following year, she married Archie, who became a science teacher at St Joseph's College.\n\nChan joined the civil service as an administrative service cadet in 1962. Her salary was reportedly one-quarter that paid to men of equivalent grade.\n\nAfterwards, she progressed to the Economics Section of the Finance Branch in 1962, followed by the Department of Agriculture and Fisheries, then the Department of Commerce and Industry, and later back to Finance. In 1970, she became Assistant Financial Secretary in the Finance Branch of the Colonial Secretary, the first woman to attain that post.\n\nShe became a senior administrative officer in 1970. During this period she helped set up the Association of Female Senior Government Officers to fight for better rights for women civil servants, notably pushing for wage parity with men.\n\nChan became the first female civil service director when appointed Director of Social Welfare in 1984. During her tenure, she was severely criticised by media for her handling of a child custody case in 1986, popularly known as the Kwok Ah-nui incident. An investigation by Unofficial members of the Executive Council found that Chan had \"acted within the law\" in respect of her extreme powers, but recommended changes to the law and to the Social Welfare Department's procedures to prevent re-occurrence of similar cases. She later admitted that the media pressure had made her \"very upset\" and this led to keep her distance from the press, at least for a few years.\n\nFrom 1987 to 1993, she was Secretary for Economic Services, becoming the 30th and last Chief Secretary, the head of the Hong Kong civil service, in 1993. She mainly oversaw the localisation of the civil service during her time in this position. From 1994, she headed the Airport Development Steering Committee overseeing the construction of the new Chek Lap Kok Airport.\n\nChan was the first woman and the first ethnic Chinese to hold the second-highest governmental position in Hong Kong. The highest governmental position, the Governor, was always held by Britons before Hong Kong's handover to People's Republic of China. Chan was often described during this era as an \"Iron Lady\", with \"an iron fist in a velvet glove\". Chan was lauded as the most powerful woman in Asia for her role as the deputy of British Governor Chris Patten, and later Tung Chee-hwa. She was considered most trusted high official in Hong Kong by both the UK and PRC government to appoint her to the head of the civil service, before and after the handover of Hong Kong.\n\nIn the run-up to the handover of Hong Kong, she was often the 'face of Hong Kong', dispatched to reassure the wider world that the territory would not implode upon its return to China and that civil liberties would be upheld. Her confidence reassured many around the globe.\n\nWithin Hong Kong she had wide public support to be the first Chief Executive in the new administration but announced in October 1996 that she would not seek the role.\n\nAfter Hong Kong's handover to China on 1 July 1997, Chan stayed on as head of the civil service under then Chief Executive Tung Chee-hwa, a valuable sign of stability and continuity for the new administration. She was always highly regarded: one British-born civil servant said that \"nothing would work without her\", also noting that \"Tung needs her more than she needs him.\"\n\nChan was loyal in the main but her public utterances were occasionally at odds with Tung. It was enough to earn her a certain independence and the epithet of \"Hong Kong's Conscience\". In contrast to the more conservative Tung, Chan showed the greater support for democracy and freedom, and advocated a faster pace of democratisation.\n\nIn 1998, Chan was somewhat criticised for her role in the monitoring of the new Hong Kong International Airport construction at Chek Lap Kok. The airport had logistical difficulties upon its opening, and some blamed Chan for her lack of supervision.\n\nWhen pro-government figures in Hong Kong attacked the Radio Television Hong Kong (RTHK) for being too critical of the Hong Kong and Chinese governments, Chan flew to its defence.\n\nIn the summer of 1999 RTHK became a platform for Taiwan-Mainland China discussions. A local member of the PRC's National People's Congress, Tsang Hin-chi, urged the government-owned radio station to exercise self-censorship and not to provide a platform that express the splitting of China; Xu Simin, a member of Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference, urged RTHK to not allow Taiwan's president broadcasts.\n\nOn 12 April 2000 Wang Fengchao delivered a speech titled \"The Principle of One China and the Taiwan Issue\". Wang hinted that Basic Law Article 23 should be enacted as quickly as possible in Hong Kong to protect China against treason and subversion. Chan spoke in a four-hour speech after Wang on the importance of press freedom and publication, as she believed in genuine press freedom without external pressures.\n\nThe constant criticism of mainland officials and policies was perceived by many to be one of the main reasons for Beijing to view Chan as a malefactor in Hong Kong politics. In what the Hong Kong media saw as a dressing down for Chan, PRC Vice Premier Qian Qichen told her at a function in Beijing to \"better support Tung\", after there had been reports of disagreements between the two over the appointment of officials. Chan agreed in 1999 to delay her retirement until June 2002. However, Chan announced her resignation in January 2001, and officially stepped down in April of the same year.\n\nAfter retiring from the civil service, Chan did not often show up in public. However, in December 2005, Chan participated in the protest march for democracy, against Donald Tsang's constitutional reform package and has since participated in subsequent marches for universal suffrage.\n\nIn July 2006, she criticised the Commission on Strategic Development, chaired by Donald Tsang, for being \"rather slow and unsatisfactory\", and announced her intention to start a \"Core Group\" to push for taking forward the debate on Hong Kong’s constitutional reforms. It was later announced that the group would consist of heavyweights including Allen Lee, Christine Loh, Elizabeth Bosher, Professor Johannes Chan, Chandran Nair and Lily Yam Kwan Pui-ying.\n\nOn 23 September 2006, in a news conference, Chan proclaimed that she would not run for the position of Chief Executive in 2007.\n\nOn 24 April 2013, Anson Chan launched a group called Hong Kong 2020 on the basis of the former \"Core Group\" to monitor and comment on the constitutional reform progress to achieve full universal suffrage for election of the Chief Executive in 2017 and all members of the Legislative Council by 2020.\n\nOn 11 September 2007, Chan announced that she would run in the December 2007 by-election for the Hong Kong Island seat made vacant by the death of former DAB chairman Ma Lik. During the campaign, she was criticised by Alex Tsui, a former ICAC official who accused Chan of obtaining a 100% mortgage to purchase a flat in 1993 when she was Chief Secretary, suggesting an abuse of power. A City University commentator said the issue marked the start of a smear campaign against Chan, although Chan did not engage in smear-free politics either, accusing her rival Regina Ip, the former Secretary for Security supported by Beijing government, of being a \"fake democrat\".\n\nChan was also revealed of having been also taken a seat in the board of Richemont, (where a board member is former legionnaire Taipan Simon Murray) the manufacturer of name brand luxury items, but which at that time also owned a 23% share of British American Tobacco. When this news of her board membership was revealed she immediately resigned from the board of Richemont.\n\nIn the early hours of 2 December 2007, Chan was elected in the by-election with 175,874 votes, securing about 55% of the vote. Regina Ip, Chan's main rival, had 137,550 votes.\n\nFor this election, Chan spent HK$1.81 million, $330,000 more than Ip. Her two main donors were Sir Quo-wei Lee and his wife, and Hong Kong Democratic Foundation chairman George Cautherly, who donated HK$250,000 each. Next Media chairman Jimmy Lai donated HK$200,000, and the Democratic Party gave HK$65,840 \"for services\".\n\nOn 6 July 2008, Chan announced that she would not be seeking re-election to the Legislative Council at the expiry of her term.\n\nAmong her seven siblings, twin sister Ninson ran a travel agency; brother Philip Fang Shun-sang (b. 1941) worked as a Chinese interpreter at the United Nations in Geneva until 1999 (and died in 2013 after jumping from his home in Lantau). Another brother, David Fang Jin-sheng, was a former orthopaedics lecturer and head of the Hong Kong Academy of Medicine; and another brother, John Fang Meng-sang, is a lawyer. In 2006, John became embroiled in a controversy over the death of his former lover in mysterious circumstances in a flat owned by him in 1995. A coroner's inquest unanimously ruled her death accidental or by misadventure.\n\nShe was married to Archibald (\"Archie\") Chan Tai-wing from 1963 until his death in 2010. Six years her senior, Archibald was a director of Caltex Oil and taught science at St. Joseph's College, his alma mater. He was also in the Hong Kong Auxiliary Police from 1987 to 1996, when he retired as a commandant.\n\nThe couple had two children, son Andrew Chan Hung-wai and daughter Michelle Chan Wai-ling, and four grandchildren.\n\nIn recognition of her 34 years of public service to the British Crown, Chan was awarded the Hong Kong Grand Bauhinia Medal in 1999.\n\nShe was then appointed by Queen Elizabeth II as Honorary Dame Grand Cross of the Order of St Michael and St George in 2002 in recognition of her service with the Hong Kong government before the handover. Such award was usually given only to Governors of Hong Kong before the return of sovereignty.\n\nShe is an honorary fellow of SOAS.\n\nIn recognition of her commitment to democracy and the empowerment of women, and her service as Patron of the University, Asian University for Women conferred upon Anson Chan an honorary doctorate degree on 20 May 2017.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27350741", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27350741", "title": "Assaulting, resisting, or impeding certain United States Government officers or employees", "text": "Assaulting, resisting, or impeding certain United States Government officers or employees\n\nAssaulting, resisting, or impeding certain United States Government officers or employees is an offense under . Simple assault is a class A misdemeanor, but if physical contact occurs, the offense is a class D felony. If a deadly weapon is used or bodily injury is inflicted, it is a class C felony. Threatening the government officials of the United States, particularly law enforcement officers, can in some cases fall under this statute.\n\nIt has been argued that the fundamental aim of this law was not to protect individual governmental officers, but to guard against the victimization of \"government and its functions.\" However, the courts have found that sparse legislative history makes it equally plausible that the statute was designed to protect individual officers. The offense has a base offense level of 10, and the official victim enhancement does not apply because \"the base offense level incorporates the fact that the victim was a governmental officer performing official duties.\" Enhancements do apply, however, if the offense involved physical contact; or if a dangerous weapon (including a firearm) was possessed and its use was threatened; or if the victim sustained bodily injury. Harsher penalties, under a separate guideline, apply to aggravated assault (i.e. a felonious assault that involved (A) a dangerous weapon with intent to cause bodily injury (i.e., not merely to frighten) with that weapon; (B) serious bodily injury; or (C) an intent to commit another felony.) A threat of force will satisfy the statute.\n\n"}
{"id": "35408793", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35408793", "title": "Blind in Business", "text": "Blind in Business\n\nBlind in Business is a British charity that helps blind and partially sighted students into employment following graduation by providing a free training and employment service. The charity offers technical help and training courses for schoolchildren with a visual impairment, while also supporting graduates and potential employers with training and technical help. It was founded in 1992 by three visually impaired graduates in order to help others in the same situation. The founders – Neil Heslop, a business planning manager with Northern Telecom who had recently experienced sight loss, Simon Meredith, a blind solicitor with Slaughter and May and Richard Hanson, a partially sighted solicitor with Cameron Markby Hewitt – were surprised to discover as many as 80 percent of people with a visual impairment were unemployed at that time, with very few in work able to pursue a career. Blind in Business was established as a charitable trust with the backing of the Royal National Institute for the Blind and with several high-profile supporters serving as its trustees, including Bank of England associate director Pen Kent, Standard Chartered chairman Rodney Galpin and Conservative MP Emma Nicholson. The organisation's head offices are based in London, but Blind in Business operates on a United Kingdom wide basis.\n\n"}
{"id": "22749405", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22749405", "title": "Campaign to Suppress Counterrevolutionaries", "text": "Campaign to Suppress Counterrevolutionaries\n\nThe Campaign to Suppress Counterrevolutionaries ( or abbreviated as ) was the first political campaign launched by the People's Republic of China designed to eradicate opposition elements, especially former Kuomintang (KMT) functionaries accused of trying to undermine the new Communist government. It began on March 1950 when the Chinese Communist central committee issued the \"Directive on elimination of bandits and establishment of revolutionary new order\" ().\n\nThe campaign was implemented as a response to the rebellions that were commonplace in the early years of the People's Republic of China. Those targeted during the campaign in were thereafter labeled as \"counterrevolutionaries\", and were publicly denounced in mass trials. Significant numbers of \"counterrevolutionaries\" were arrested and executed and even more sentenced to \"labor reform\" ().\n\nProfessor Yang Kuisong noted the strong resistance against the Communist government during the early days of the People's Republic of China, mostly from remnants of the KMT. According to Chinese state media, after the victory of the CCP in the Chinese Civil War, remnants of the Kuomintang continued to gather intelligence, conduct sabotage, destroy transportation links, loot supplies, and entice armed rebellion through bandits and secret agents.\n\nAccording to Chinese historians, between January and October 1950, there were over 800 counter-revolutionary riots nationwide, and that more than 40,000 political activists and masses of cadres were killed as a result. The government alleged that in Guangxi Province alone, counter-revolutionaries burned and destroyed more than 25,000 buildings and robbed over 200,000 head of cattle.\n\nIn March 1950, the CCP Central Committee issued \"Counter-Revolutionary Activities and instructions for Repression.\" Starting from December 1950, the large-scale suppression of the counter-revolutionary movement was carried out. The official focus of the campaign were bandits (such as Guan Fei), as well as counter-revolutionary underground bands.\n\nIn March 1950, Liu Shaoqi, who was then in charge of the Central Committee, had issued a \"Directive on elimination of bandits and establishment of revolutionary new order\", ordering the Public Security Department (公安局) to list all the Kuomintang members, and stressed that whoever was opposing the rule of CPC must be heavily suppressed and punished. As a result, numerous former KMT members were forced to register and identify themselves, and were promised leniency as a result.\n\nHowever, this initiative was criticized for being too lenient by many government officials, who called for harsher measures. In particular, Peng Zhen argued that KMT agents took advantage of the policy to stage further attacks. \"Having corrected a tendency of wanton beating and killing, our lenient policies in many places have deviated towards another mistake of lenience without bounds, lenience to an extent that has demoralized ourselves and emboldened the bandits and enemy agents ... that has swollen the enemy’s arrogance and alienated the people.\"\n\nYang noted that while Mao did not initially respond to the calls, his attitude changed following the outbreak of the Korean War. On October 10, 1950, Mao issued a new \"Directive on suppression of counterrevolutionary activities\", also known as the \"Double-ten Directive\", initiating a large scale suppression of counterrevolutionaries, and personally oversaw the operations.\n\nYang noted that the timeframe of the Korean War and the land reform campaign provided a short opportunity to initiate the campaign successfully, provided that it was implemented with care.\nMao's decision to initiate the campaign was highlighted in a conversation with Luo Ruiqing, then Minister of public security, \"[We] must not miss this opportunity. Probably this is our only operation for suppressing counterrevolutionaries. This will not happen again in the future and therefore is a golden opportunity. Full advantage of this asset must be taken. The purpose is not just to kill several counterrevolutionaries. More importantly, this [campaign] is for mass mobilization.\"\n\nYang also noted Liu Shaoqi's explanation on why the war in Korea facilitated the suppression of counterrevolutionaries, \"Once the gongs and drums of resisting the United States and assisting Korea begin to make a deafening sound, the gongs and drums of the land reform and suppression of counter-revolutionaries become barely audible, and the latter becomes much easier to implement. Without the loud gongs and drums of resisting the United States and assisting Korea, those of the land reform (and zhenfan) would make unbearable noise. Here a landlord is killed and there another is beaten; there would be fuss everywhere. Things would then become difficult.\" Yang argued that the Campaign to Suppress Counterrevolutionaries was initiated in parallel with the Chinese entrance to the Korean War as a means of establishing its political authority amongst the Chinese populace via promoting patriotism and suppressing opposition elements.\n\nThe Double-ten Directive stressed on the \"educational\" effects of the campaign, and cases of execution were publicized by the newspapers to inform the masses. However, following the implementation of the campaign, Liu Shaoqi became concerned that the campaign could become too excessive. He stated, \"If every execution is to appear on the newspapers, then there would be too much of the news on execution. I am afraid there would be side effects, like someone might begin to show suspicion on us being 'kill too many' or 'overreact'\", arguing that the campaign should be moderated to avoid creating a negative image of the CCP.\n\nYang noted that initially, Mao agreed with Liu's suggestions, criticizing the \"tactless\" and \"indiscriminate\" purges in various provinces, which created an \"excessively nervous atmosphere\". Furthermore, Mao argued that \"If our cadres do not have a clear idea about this and stick strictly to it, opportunities will be created for counterrevolutionaries, democratic personages will become discontent, and the people will not support us. Then our Party may fall into a difficult situation.\" As a result, many provinces ceased the executions in accordance.\n\nHowever, by January 1951, while the Chinese won major battles in the Korean War and public support at home began to rise, Mao became dissatisfied by the progress of the campaign. He argued that the power base of the former landlords and KMT officials had not been broken as a result of leniency, and that further executions are a necessary step. Mao stated, \"If we are irresolute and tolerant to this evil, we will ... alienate the people\", proposing that further executions should be carried out in areas with large concentration of bandits, \"As long as we do not kill the wrong people\". On 21 January 1951, Mao sent a telegram to party members in Shanghai: \"In a big city like Shanghai, probably it will take one to two thousand executions during this year to solve the problem. In the spring, three to five hundred executions will be needed to suppress the enemy’s arrogance and enhance the people’s morale. In Nanjing, the East China Bureau should direct the party’s municipality committee ... and strive to execute one to two hundred of the most important reactionaries in the spring.\" A day later, 22 January 1951, Mao told the communists in Guangdong: \"It is very good that you have already killed more than 3,700. Another three to four thousand should be killed ... the target for this year’s executions may be eight or nine thousand.\"\n\nYang noted that Mao implemented a quota for the executions in accordance with local populations. Mao argued that hardline counterrevolutionaries counted for less than 1 percent of the population in all regions, and that roughly 0.1 per cent of the population would have to be executed in order to get rid of the worst counterrevolutionary elements, while avoiding killing innocents. However, in reality, many provinces did not have enough counterrevolutionaries to meet the quota, and lacked the facilities to implement the mass arrests. As a result, many people were arrested recklessly based on assumptions, and many cases were decided without thorough examination.\n\nOn February 21, 1951, the \"Regulations of the People’s Republic of China on punishment of counterrevolutionaries\" was issued, which sets out the various \"counterrevolutionary\" crimes, including \"collaborating with imperialism\", \"bribing government officials\", \"participating in armed rebellion\", \"participating in spying or espionage\", and \"looting and sabotage\". Death penalties or life imprisonment would be given depending on the seriousness of the crime. Later on, the charges of \"local tyrants\", and \"historical counterrevolutionaries\" who had incurred \"blood debts\", were added.\n\nHowever, the charges were known for their vagueness and lack of concrete criteria, and many people were executed simply because of accusations or association with the former KMT government. In despite of this, by March 1951, many large cities implemented the campaign upon the urgings of Mao. Mao argued that as long as the campaign targeted despised figures of society, the mass populace would be incited to support the campaign. Though he initially wanted to avoid inviting people outside the party, Mao's predictions was correct. Much of the trials of accused counterrevolutionaries had popular turnout, being heavily advertised on radio, and many of the invited civilians participated in the trials themselves. Jung Chang noted that in Beijing alone there were some 30,000 rallies attended by over 3 million people, and in one such rally, 200 people were paraded and executed with their blood splattering out on bystanders, and trucks carrying blood-stained corpses drove through the streets.\n\nBy late 1951, the Campaign to Suppress Counterrevolutionaries was briefly superseded by the Three-anti/five-anti campaigns, but continued until August 1952.\n\nAs the Chinese Communist Party first major political campaign, the Campaign to Suppress Counterrevolutionaries was ultimately successful in eradicating bands of KMT underground forces. As a result, the various KMT sponsored assassination and sabotage campaigns, which once posed a large threat to CCP authorities, was greatly reduced. Yang noted the suppressions successfully destroyed KMT's hopes of retaking mainland China, as well as achieving the goal of mass mobilization by inciting popular support of party policies.\n\nThe campaign highlighted Mao's beliefs of class struggle through the revolutionary class. The ensuing repression and mass executions also paved the way for a subsequent series campaigns against class enemies, such as the Anti-Rightist Movement and the Cultural Revolution that resulted in failure and more tragedies. In particular, it also led to the implementation of quotas in further CCP campaigns, which were assigned to local officials as a means of indicating the results of such campaigns. Yang argued that such measures later proved to be counterproductive and led to excesses.\n\nYang also noted the large amount of wrongly convicted cases, which he attributed to the vagueness of the regulations, attempts by local officials to please superiors, lack of law enforcement in local government, personal grievances, and irrational crowds. In 1953, Xinhua News Agency investigated the claims, finding that in various provinces, many of the accused counterrevolutionaries were falsely labelled because of local disputes, and many local officials used the campaign to rid themselves of political rivals. Furthermore, large number of former KMT personnel were targeted. Despite assurances by the CCP during the Chinese Civil War that surrendering KMT troops would be forgiven for their past associations, many of them were nevertheless targeted by local officials to meet quotas. Following the subsequent investigations, around 150,000 former KMT personnel across the country had their 'counterrevolutionary' label removed.\n\nBenjamin Valentino noted that years after the conclusion of the campaign, Mao admitted that some people were \"unjustly killed,\" but insisted that \"basically there were no errors; that group of people should have been killed ... if they had not been killed the people would not have been able to raise their heads.\" Valentino argued that the biggest concern of the CPC during the campaigns was to urge local cadre to \"not fear executing people only to fear mistakenly executing people\" and to punish those who were too lenient and practiced \"peaceful land reform\".\n\nFigures vary on the total number of death as a result of the campaign. Yang Kuisong notes that while the official estimates say 712,000 were executed the actual number is likely much higher, while Li Changyu puts the figure at 2 million Most of the killed were former Kuomintang officials, businessmen, former employees of Western companies and intellectuals whose loyalty was suspect. When the killings of rural landlords that occurred during land reform, which overlapped the counterrevolutionary campaign, are included, the estimates then range from 2 million to 5 million executions for the years 1949-1953, along with 1.5 million people, to 6 million, being sent to \"reform through labour\" camps where many perished. Philip Short noted that such estimates exclude the hundreds of thousands driven to suicide during \"struggle sessions\" of the three-anti/five-anti campaigns, which also occurred around the same time.\n\nThe large number of deaths did not go unnoticed by local officials. Yang Kuisong noted that by May 1951, many provinces had called for a halt to the mass executions, but the killings had in fact increased due to acceptance of the suppression campaign as a means of settling local grievances. Mao also became concerned with the excessive executions, and suggested for the executions to be reduced to 0.05 percent, with a limit of 0.1 percent, while that the rest of the accused criminals can be sentenced to life imprisonment or hard labor instead. Mao stated, \"If we have such people executed, it will not be easily understood by the masses, nor will public figures be sympathetic; furthermore we would be deprived of a large pool of labor, and it would serve little use in dividing the enemy.\" \n\nAccording to , the harshness of the official prison system reached unprecedented levels, and the mortality rate until 1952 was \"certainly in excess\" of 5 percent per year, and reached 50 percent during six months in Guangxi. In Shanxi, more than 300 people died per day in one mine. Torture was commonplace and the suppression of revolts, which were quite numerous, resulted in \"veritable massacres.\" One Chinese priest died after being interrogated for over 100 hours. Of the 20,000 inmates who worked in the oilfields of Yanchang, several thousand were executed.\n\nBy May 1951, the CCP Central Committee had issued a directive calling for a stop to the killings, giving the power of arrest and execution back to the central government. Furthermore, it clarified the procedures of dealing with accused counterrevolutionaries, as well as limiting the execution of death penalties to those with 'blood debts' or to have 'committed serious crimes'. Others who had received death penalties would have their sentences commuted by two years of manual labor, with their performance assessed as to determine whether the sentence would still be necessary. Despite the directive, while mass arrests and executions subsided in some regions, they still continued, albeit with much more secrecy.\n\nSufan was another purge campaign. The targets of Sufan directives were the communists, government bureaucrats, and the military personnel, where as Zhen Fan mainly targeted former Kuomintang personnel. Estimates of the number of victims of Sufan range widely; Jean-Louis Margolin writes in \"The Black Book of Communism\" that one source indicates 81,000 arrests during the campaign (which he claims is rather modest), while another gives 770,000 deaths. He concludes that there is no way to determine which is accurate.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44130941", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44130941", "title": "Chief Advisor of Bhutan", "text": "Chief Advisor of Bhutan\n\nThe Chief Advisor is the head of interim government of Bhutan following a dissolution of assembly, in preparation for National Assembly elections.\n"}
{"id": "83392", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=83392", "title": "Counter-terrorism", "text": "Counter-terrorism\n\nCounter-terrorism (also spelled counterterrorism) incorporates the practice, military tactics, techniques, and strategy that government, military, law enforcement, business, and intelligence agencies use to combat or prevent terrorism. Counter-terrorism strategies include attempts to counter financing of terrorism.\n\nIf terrorism is part of a broader insurgency, counter-terrorism may employ counter-insurgency measures. The United States Armed Forces use the term foreign internal defense for programs that support other countries in attempts to suppress insurgency, lawlessness, or subversion or to reduce the conditions under which these threats to security may develop.\n\nIn response to the escalating terror campaign in Britain carried out by the militant Irish Fenians in the 1880s, the Home Secretary, Sir William Harcourt, established the first counter-terrorism unit ever. The Special Irish Branch was initially formed as a section of the Criminal Investigation Department of the London Metropolitan Police in 1883, to combat Irish republican terrorism through infiltration and subversion.\n\nHarcourt envisioned a permanent unit dedicated to the prevention of politically motivated violence through the use of modern techniques such as undercover infiltration. This pioneering branch was the first to be trained in counter-terrorism techniques.\n\nIts name was changed to Special Branch as it had its remit gradually expanded\nto incorporate a general role in counterterrorism, combating foreign subversion and infiltrating organized crime. Law enforcement agencies, in Britain and elsewhere, established similar units.\n\nCounterterrorism forces expanded with the perceived growing threat of terrorism in the late 20th century. Specifically, after the September 11 attacks, Western governments made counter-terrorism efforts a priority, including more foreign cooperation, shifting tactics involving red teams and preventive measures.\n\nMost counter-terrorism strategies involve an increase in standard police and domestic intelligence. The central activities are traditional: interception of communications, and the tracing of persons. New technology has, however, expanded the range of military and law enforcement operations.\nDomestic intelligence is often directed at specific groups, defined on the basis of origin or religion, which is a source of political controversy. Mass surveillance of an entire population raises objections on civil liberties grounds. Homegrown terrorists, especially lone wolves are often harder to detect because of their citizenship or legal status and ability to stay under the radar.\n\nTo select the effective action when terrorism appears to be more of an isolated event, the appropriate government organizations need to understand the source, motivation, methods of preparation, and tactics of terrorist groups. Good intelligence is at the heart of such preparation, as well as political and social understanding of any grievances that might be solved. Ideally, one gets information from inside the group, a very difficult challenge for HUMINT because operational terrorist cells are often small, with all members known to one another, perhaps even related.\n\nCounterintelligence is a great challenge with the security of cell-based systems, since the ideal, but nearly impossible, goal is to obtain a clandestine source within the cell. Financial tracking can play a role, as can communications intercept, but both of these approaches need to be balanced against legitimate expectations of privacy.\n\nIn response to the growing legislation.\n\nSince 1978 the UK's terrorism laws have been regularly reviewed by a security-cleared Independent Reviewer of Terrorism Legislation, whose often influential reports are submitted to Parliament and published in full.\n\nOne of the primary difficulties of implementing effective counter-terrorist measures is the waning of civil liberties and individual privacy that such measures often entail, both for citizens of, and for those detained by states attempting to combat terror. At times, measures designed to tighten security have been seen as abuses of power or even violations of human rights.\n\nExamples of these problems can include prolonged, incommunicado detention without judicial review or long periods of 'preventive detention'; risk of subjecting to torture during the transfer, return and extradition of people between or within countries; and the adoption of security measures that restrain the rights or freedoms of citizens and breach principles of non-discrimination. Examples include:\n\nMany would argue that such violations could exacerbate rather than counter the terrorist threat. Human rights advocates argue for the crucial role of human rights protection as an intrinsic part to fight against terrorism. This suggests, as proponents of human security have long argued, that respecting human rights may indeed help us to incur security. Amnesty International included a section on confronting terrorism in the recommendations in the Madrid Agenda arising from the Madrid Summit on Democracy and Terrorism (Madrid March 8–11, 2005):\n\nWhile international efforts to combat terrorism have focused on the need to enhance cooperation between states, proponents of human rights (as well as human security) have suggested that more effort needs to be given to the effective inclusion of human rights protection as a crucial element in that cooperation. They argue that international human rights obligations do not stop at borders and a failure to respect human rights in one state may undermine its effectiveness in the international effort to cooperate to combat terrorism.\n\nSome countries see preemptive attacks as a legitimate strategy. This includes capturing, killing, or disabling suspected terrorists before they can mount an attack. Israel, the United Kingdom, the United States, and Russia have taken this approach, while Western European states generally do not.\n\nAnother major method of preemptive neutralization is interrogation of known or suspected terrorists to obtain information about specific plots, targets, the identity of other terrorists, whether or not the interrogation subjects himself is guilty of terrorist involvement. Sometimes more extreme methods are used to increase suggestibility, such as sleep deprivation or drugs. Such methods may lead captives to offer false information in an attempt to stop the treatment, or due to the confusion brought on by it. These methods are not tolerated by European powers. In 1978 the European Court of Human Rights ruled in the Ireland v. United Kingdom case that such methods amounted to a practice of inhuman and degrading treatment, and that such practices were in breach of the European Convention on Human Rights Article 3 (art. 3).\n\nThe human security paradigm outlines a non-military approach which aims to address the enduring underlying inequalities which fuel terrorist activity. Causal factors need to be delineated and measures implemented which allow equal access to resources and sustainability for all people. Such activities empower citizens providing 'freedom from fear' and 'freedom from want'.\n\nThis can take many forms including the provision of clean drinking water, education, vaccination programs, provision of food and shelter and protection from violence, military or otherwise. Successful human security campaigns have been characterized by the participation of a diverse group of actors including governments, NGOs, and citizens.\n\nForeign internal defense programs provide outside expert assistance to a threatened government. FID can involve both non-military and military aspects of counter-terrorism.\n\nA 2017 study found that \"governance and civil society aid is effective in dampening domestic terrorism, but this effect is only present if the recipient country is not experiencing a civil conflict.\"\n\nTerrorism has often been used to justify military intervention in countries like Pakistan where terrorists are said to be based. That was the main stated justification for the U.S. invasion of Afghanistan. It was also a stated justification for the second Russian invasion of Chechnya.\n\nMilitary intervention has not always been successful in stopping or preventing future terrorism, like during the Malayan Emergency, the Mau Mau uprising, and most of the campaigns against the IRA during the Irish Civil War, the S-Plan, the Border Campaign (IRA) and the Troubles in Northern Ireland. Although military action can disrupt a terrorist group's operations temporarily, it sometimes doesn't end the threat completely.\n\nThus repression by the military in itself (particularly if it is not accompanied by other measures) usually leads to short term victories, but tend to be unsuccessful in the long run (e.g. the French's doctrine described in Roger Trinquier's book \"Modern War\" used in Indochina and Algeria). However, new methods (see the new \"Counterinsurgency\" Field Manual) such as those taken in Iraq have yet to be seen as beneficial or ineffectual.\n\nPolice, fire, and emergency medical response organizations have obvious roles. Local firefighters and emergency medical personnel (often called \"first responders\") have plans for mitigating the effects of terrorist attacks, although police may deal with threats of such attacks.\n\nWhatever the target of terrorists, there are multiple ways of hardening the targets to prevent the terrorists from hitting their mark, or reducing the damage of attacks. One method is to place Hostile vehicle mitigation to enforce protective standoff distance outside tall or politically sensitive buildings to prevent car and truck bombing. Another way to reduce the impact of attacks is to design buildings for rapid evacuation.\n\nAircraft cockpits are kept locked during flights, and have reinforced doors, which only the pilots in the cabin are capable of opening. UK railway stations removed their rubbish bins in response to the Provisional IRA threat, as convenient locations for depositing bombs.\n\nScottish stations removed theirs after the 7 July 2005 London Bombings as a precautionary measure. The Massachusetts Bay Transportation Authority purchased bomb-resistant barriers after the September 11 terrorist attacks.\nAs Israel is suffering from constant shelling of its cities, towns and settlements by artillery rockets from the Gaza Strip (mainly by Hamas, but also by other Palestinian factions) and Lebanon (mainly by Hezbollah), Israel developed several defensive measures against artillery, rockets and missiles. These include building a bomb shelter in every building and school, but also deploying active protection systems like the Arrow ABM, Iron Dome and David's Sling batteries which intercept the incoming threat in the air. Iron Dome has successfully intercepted hundreds of Qassam rockets and Grad rockets fired by Palestinians from the Gaza Strip.\n\nA more sophisticated target-hardening approach must consider industrial and other critical industrial infrastructure that could be attacked. Terrorists need not import chemical weapons if they can cause a major industrial accident such as the Bhopal disaster or the Halifax Explosion. Industrial chemicals in manufacturing, shipping, and storage need greater protection, and some efforts are in progress. To put this risk into perspective, the first used 160 tons of chlorine. Industrial shipments of chlorine, widely used in water purification and the chemical industry, travel in 90 or 55 ton tank cars.\n\nTo give one more example, the North American electrical grid has already demonstrated, in the Northeast Blackout of 2003, its vulnerability to natural disasters coupled with inadequate, possibly insecure, SCADA (supervisory control and data acquisition) networks. Part of the vulnerability is due to deregulation leading to much more interconnection in a grid designed for only occasional power-selling between utilities. A small number of terrorists, attacking key power facilities when one or more engineers have infiltrated the power control centers, could wreak havoc.\n\nEquipping likely targets with containers (i.e., bags) of pig lard has been utilized to discourage attacks by suicide bombers. The technique was apparently used on a limited scale by British authorities in the 1940s. The approach stems from the idea that Muslims perpetrating the attack would not want to be \"soiled\" by the lard in the moment prior to dying. The idea has been suggested more recently as a deterrent to suicide bombings in Israel. However, the actual effectiveness of this tactic is probably limited as it is possible that a sympathetic Islamic scholar could issue a fatwa proclaiming that a suicide bomber would not be polluted by the swine products.\n\nIn North America and other continents, for a threatened or completed terrorist attack, the Incident Command System (ICS) is apt to be invoked to control the various services that may need to be involved in the response. ICS has varied levels of escalation, such as might be needed for multiple incidents in a given area (e.g., the 2005 bombings in London or the 2004 Madrid train bombings, or all the way to a National Response Plan invocation if national-level resources are needed. National response, for example, might be needed for a nuclear, biological, radiological, or large chemical attack.\n\nFire departments, perhaps supplemented by public works agencies, utility providers (e.g., gas, water, electricity), and heavy construction contractors, are most apt to deal with the physical consequences of an attack.\n\nAgain under an incident command model, local police can isolate the incident area, reducing confusion, and specialized police units can conduct tactical operations against terrorists, often using specialized counter-terrorist tactical units. Bringing in such units will normally involve civil or military authority beyond the local level.\n\nEmergency medical services will triage, treat, and transport the more seriously affected victims to hospitals, which will also need to have mass casualty and triage plans in place.\n\nPublic health agencies, from local to national level, may be designated to deal with identification, and sometimes mitigation, of possible biological attacks, and sometimes chemical or radiologic contamination.\n\nToday, many countries have special units designated to handle terrorist threats. Besides various security agencies, there are elite tactical units, also known as special mission units, whose role is to directly engage terrorists and prevent terrorist attacks.\n\nSuch units perform both in preventive actions, hostage rescue and responding to on-going attacks. Countries of all sizes can have highly trained counter-terrorist teams. Tactics, techniques and procedures for manhunting are under constant development.\n\nMost of these measures deal with terrorist attacks that affect an area, or threaten to do so. It is far harder to deal with assassination, or even reprisals on individuals, due to the short (if any) warning time and the quick exfiltration of the assassins.\n\nThese units are specially trained in tactics and are very well equipped for CQB with emphasis on stealth and performing the mission with minimal casualties. The units include take-over force (assault teams), snipers, EOD experts, dog handlers and intelligence officers. See Counter-intelligence and counter-terrorism organizations for national command, intelligence, and incident mitigation.\n\nThe majority of counter-terrorism operations at the tactical level, are conducted by state, federal and national law enforcement agencies or intelligence agencies. In some countries, the military may be called in as a last resort. Obviously, for countries whose military are legally permitted to conduct police operations, this is a non-issue, and such counter-terrorism operations are conducted by their military.\n\nSee counter-intelligence for command, intelligence and warning, and incident mitigation aspects of counter-terror.\n\nSome counterterrorist actions of the 20th and 21st century are listed below. See list of hostage crises for a more extended list, including hostage-taking that did not end violently.\n\nThe scope for Anti-terrorism systems is very large in physical terms (long borders, vast areas, high traffic volumes in busy cities, etc.) as well as in other dimensions, such as type and degree of terrorism threat, political and diplomatic ramifications, and legal issues. In this environment, the development of a persistent Anti-terrorism protection system is a daunting task. Such a system should bring together diverse state-of-the-art technologies to enable persistent intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance missions, and enable potential actions. Designing such a system-of-systems comprises a major technological project.\n\nA particular design problem for this system is that it will face many uncertainties in the future. The threat of terrorism may increase, decrease or remain the same, the type of terrorism and location are difficult to predict, and there are technological uncertainties. Yet we want to design a terrorism system conceived and designed today in order to prevent acts of terrorism for a decade or more. A potential solution is to incorporate flexibility into system design for the reason that the flexibility embedded can be exercised in future as uncertainty unfolds and updated information arrives. And the design and valuation of a protection system should not be based on a single scenario, but an array of scenarios. Flexibility can be incorporated in the design of the terrorism system in the form of options that can be exercised in the future when new information is available. Using these 'real options' will create a flexible Anti-terrorism system that is able to cope with new requirements that may arise.\n\nWhile some countries with longstanding terrorism problems, such as Israel, have law enforcement agencies primarily designed to prevent and respond to terror attacks, in other nations, counter-terrorism is a relatively more recent objective of civilian police and law enforcement agencies.\n\nWhile some civil-libertarians and criminal justice scholars have called-out efforts of law enforcement agencies to combat terrorism as futile and expensive or as threats to civil liberties, other scholars have begun describing and analyzing the most important dimensions of the policing of terrorism as an important dimension of counterterrorism, especially in the post-9/11 era, and have argued how police institutions view terrorism as a matter of crime control. Such analyses bring out the civilian police role in counterterrorism next to the military model of a 'war on terror'.\n\nPursuant to passage of the Homeland Security Act of 2002, federal, state, and local law enforcement agencies began to systemically reorganize. Two primary federal agencies (the Department of Justice (DOJ) and the Department of Homeland Security (DHS)) house most of the federal agencies that are prepared to combat domestic and international terrorist attacks. These include the Border Patrol, the Secret Service, the Coast Guard and the FBI.\n\nFollowing suit from federal changes pursuant to 9/11, however, most state and local law enforcement agencies began to include a commitment to \"fighting terrorism\" in their mission statements. Local agencies began to establish more patterned lines of communication with federal agencies. Some scholars have doubted the ability of local police to help in the war on terror and suggest their limited manpower is still best utilized by engaging community and targeting street crimes.\n\nWhile counter-terror measures (most notably heightened airport security, immigrant profiling and border patrol) have been adapted during the last decade, to enhance counter-terror in law enforcement, there have been remarkable limitations to assessing the actual utility/effectiveness of law enforcement practices that are ostensibly preventative. Thus, while sweeping changes in counter-terrorism rhetoric redefined most American post 9/11 law enforcement agencies in theory, it is hard to assess how well such hyperbole has translated into practice.\n\nIn intelligence-led policing(ILP) efforts, the most quantitatively amenable starting point for measuring the effectiveness of any policing strategy (i.e.: Neighborhood Watch, Gun Abatement, Foot Patrols, etc.) is usually to assess total financial costs against clearance rates or arrest rates. Since terrorism is such a rare event phenomena, measuring arrests or clearance rates would be a non-generalizable and ineffective way to test enforcement policy effectiveness. Another methodological problem in assessing counter-terrorism efforts in law enforcement hinges on finding operational measures for key concepts in the study of homeland security. Both terrorism and homeland security are relatively new concepts for criminologists, and academicians have yet to agree on the matter of how to properly define these ideas in a way that is accessible.\n\n+ indicates military organization allowed to operate domestically.\n\n\n\nGiven the nature of operational counter-terrorism tasks national military organizations do not generally have dedicated units whose sole responsibility is the prosecution of these tasks. Instead the counter-terrorism function is an element of the role, allowing flexibility in their employment, with operations being undertaken in the domestic or international context.\n\nIn some cases the legal framework within which they operate prohibits military units conducting operations in the domestic arena; United States Department of Defense policy, based on the Posse Comitatus Act, forbids domestic counter-terrorism operations by the U.S. military. Units allocated some operational counter-terrorism task are frequently Special Forces or similar assets.\n\nIn cases where military organisations do operate in the domestic context some form of formal handover from the law enforcement community is regularly required, to ensure adherence to the legislative framework and limitations. such as the Iranian Embassy Siege, the British police formally turned responsibility over to the Special Air Service when the situation went beyond police capabilities.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1708485", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1708485", "title": "Criticism of socialism", "text": "Criticism of socialism\n\nCriticism of socialism refers to any critique of socialist models of economic organization and their feasibility as well as the political and social implications of adopting such a system. Some criticisms are not directed toward socialism as a system, but are directed toward the socialist movement, socialist political parties or existing socialist states. Some critics consider socialism to be a purely theoretical concept that should be criticized on theoretical grounds (such as in the socialist calculation debate) while others hold that certain historical examples exist and that they can be criticized on practical grounds.\n\nEconomic liberals and right libertarians view private ownership of the means of production and the market exchange as natural entities or moral rights which are central to their conceptions of freedom and liberty and view the economic dynamics of capitalism as immutable and absolute. They thus perceive public ownership of the means of production, cooperatives and economic planning as infringements upon liberty.\n\nAccording to the Austrian school economist Ludwig von Mises, an economic system that does not utilize money, financial calculation and market pricing will be unable to effectively value capital goods and coordinate production and therefore socialism is impossible because it lacks the necessary information to perform economic calculation in the first place. Another central argument leveled against socialist systems based on economic planning is based on the use of dispersed knowledge. Socialism is unfeasible in this view because information cannot be aggregated by a central body and effectively used to formulate a plan for an entire economy, because doing so would result in distorted or absent price signals. Other economists criticize models of socialism based on neoclassical economics for their reliance on the faulty and unrealistic assumptions of economic equilibrium and pareto efficiency. Some philosophers have also criticized the aims of socialism, arguing that equality erodes away at individual diversities and that the establishment of an equal society would have to entail strong coercion. Critics of the socialist political movement often criticize the internal conflicts of the socialist movement as creating a sort of \"responsibility void\".\n\nBecause there are many models of socialism, most critiques are only focused on a specific type of socialism, therefore the criticisms presented below may not apply to all forms of socialism and many will focus on the experience of Soviet-type economies. It is also important to note that different models of socialism conflict with each other over questions of property ownership, economic coordination and how socialism is to be achieved—so critics of specific models of socialism might be advocates of a different type of socialism.\n\nThe economic calculation problem is a criticism of central economic planning. It was first proposed in 1854 by the Prussian economist Hermann Heinrich Gossen. It was subsequently expounded in 1902 by the Dutch economist Nicolaas Pierson, in 1920 by Ludwig von Mises, and later by Friedrich Hayek. The problem referred to is that of how to distribute resources rationally in an economy. The free market relies on the price mechanism, wherein people individually have the ability to decide how resources should be distributed based on their willingness to give money for specific goods or services. The price conveys embedded information about the abundance of resources as well as their desirability which in turn allows—on the basis of individual consensual decisions—corrections that prevent shortages and surpluses. Mises and Hayek argued that this is the only possible solution and without the information provided by market prices socialism lacks a method to rationally allocate resources. Those who agree with this criticism argue it is a refutation of socialism and that it shows that a socialist planned economy could never work. The debate raged in the 1920s and 1930s and that specific period of the debate has come to be known by economic historians as \"the Socialist Calculation Debate\".\n\nLudwig von Mises argued in a famous 1930 article \"Economic Calculation in the Socialist Commonwealth\" that the pricing systems in socialist economies were necessarily deficient because if government owned the means of production, then no prices could be obtained for capital goods as they were merely internal transfers of goods in a socialist system and not \"objects of exchange\", unlike final goods, therefore they were unpriced and hence the system would be necessarily inefficient since the central planners would not know how to allocate the available resources efficiently. This led him to declare \"that rational economic activity is impossible in a socialist commonwealth\". Mises developed his critique of socialism more completely in his 1922 book \"Socialism, an Economic and Sociological Analysis\".\n\nFriedrich Hayek argued in 1977 that \"prices are an instrument of communication and guidance which embody more information than we directly have\" and therefore \"the whole idea that you can bring about the same order based on the division of labor by simple direction falls to the ground\". He further argued that \"if you need prices, including the prices of labor, to direct people to go where they are needed, you cannot have another distribution except the one from the market principle\".\n\nLudwig von Mises argued that a socialist system based upon a planned economy would not be able to allocate resources effectively due to the lack of price signals. Because the means of production would be controlled by a single entity, approximating prices for capital goods in a planned economy would be impossible. His argument was that socialism must fail economically because of the economic calculation problem—the impossibility of a socialist government being able to make the economic calculations required to organize a complex economy. Mises projected that without a market economy there would be no functional price system, which he held essential for achieving rational and efficient allocation of capital goods to their most productive uses. According to Mises, socialism would fail as demand cannot be known without prices.\nThese arguments were elaborated by subsequent Austrian economists such as Friedrich Hayek and students such as Hans Sennholz.\n\nThe anarcho-capitalist economist Hans-Hermann Hoppe argues that in the absence of prices for the means of production, there is no cost-accounting which would direct labor and resources to the most valuable uses. Hungarian economist Janos Kornai has written that \"the attempt to realize market socialism [...] produces an incoherent system, in which there are elements that repel each other: the dominance of public ownership and the operation of the market are not compatible\".\n\nProponents of \"laissez-faire\" capitalism argue that although private monopolies do not have any actual competition, there are many potential competitors watching them and if they were delivering inadequate service, or charging an excessive amount for a good or service, investors would start a competing enterprise.\n\nIn her book \"How We Survived Communism and Even Laughed\", Slavenka Drakulić claims that a major contributor to the fall of socialist planned economies in the former Soviet bloc was the failure to produce the basic consumer goods that its people desired. She argues that because of the makeup of the leadership of these regimes, the concerns of women got particularly short shrift. She illustrates this in particular by the system's failure to produce washing machines. If a state-owned industry is able to keep operating with losses, it may continue operating indefinitely producing things that are not in high consumer demand. If consumer demand is too low to sustain the industry with voluntary payments by consumers, then it is tax-subsidized. This prevents resources (capital and labor) from being applied to satisfying more urgent consumer demands. According to economist Milton Friedman: \"The loss part is just as important as the profit part. What distinguishes the private system from a government socialist system is the loss part. If an entrepreneur's project doesn't work, he closes it down. If it had been a government project, it would have been expanded, because there is not the discipline of the profit and loss element\".\n\nProponents of chaos theory argue that it is impossible to make accurate long-term predictions for highly complex systems such as an economy.\n\nPierre-Joseph Proudhon raises similar calculational issues in his \"General Idea of the Revolution in the 19th Century\", but also proposes certain voluntary arrangements, which would also require economic calculation.\n\nLeon Trotsky, a fierce proponent of decentralized economic planning, argued that centralized economic planning would be \"insoluble without the daily experience of millions, without their critical review of their own collective experience, without their expression of their needs and demands and could not be carried out within the confines of the official sanctums\" and \"[e]ven if the Politburo consisted of seven universal geniuses, of seven Marxes, or seven Lenins, it will still be unable, all on its own, with all its creative imagination, to assert command over the economy of 170 million people\".\n\nMises argued that real-world implementation of free market and socialist principles provided empirical evidence for which economic system leads to greatest success: \n\nAccording to Tibor R. Machan: \"Without a market in which allocations can be made in obedience to the law of supply and demand, it is difficult or impossible to funnel resources with respect to actual human preferences and goals\".\n\nIn contrast to the lack of a marketplace, market socialism can be viewed as an alternative to the traditional socialist model. Theoretically, the fundamental difference between a traditional socialist economy and a market socialist economy is the existence of a market for the means of production and capital goods.\n\nCentral planning is also criticized by elements of the radical left. Libertarian socialist economist Robin Hahnel notes that even if central planning overcame its inherent inhibitions of incentives and innovation, it would nevertheless be unable to maximize economic democracy and self-management, which he believes are concepts that are more intellectually coherent, consistent and just than mainstream notions of economic freedom.\n\nAs Hahnel explains: \"Combined with a more democratic political system, and redone to closer approximate a best case version, centrally planned economies no doubt would have performed better. But they could never have delivered economic self-management, they would always have been slow to innovate as apathy and frustration took their inevitable toll, and they would always have been susceptible to growing inequities and inefficiencies as the effects of differential economic power grew. Under central planning neither planners, managers, nor workers had incentives to promote the social economic interest. Nor did impending markets for final goods to the planning system enfranchise consumers in meaningful ways. But central planning would have been incompatible with economic democracy even if it had overcome its information and incentive liabilities. And the truth is that it survived as long as it did only because it was propped up by unprecedented totalitarian political power\".\n\nEconomist Milton Friedman argued that socialism, by which he meant state ownership over the means of production, impedes technological progress due to competition being stifled. As evidence, he said that we need only look to the United States to see where socialism fails, by observing that the most technologically backward areas are those where government owns the means of production. Without a reward system, it is argued many inventors or investors would not risk time or capital for research. This was one of the reasons for the United States patent system and copyright law.\n\nSocialism has proved no more efficient at home than abroad. What are our most technologically backward areas? The delivery of first class mail, the schools, the judiciary, the legislative system – all mired in outdated technology. No doubt we need socialism for the judicial and legislative systems. We do not for mail or schools, as has been shown by Federal Express and others, and by the ability of many private schools to provide superior education to underprivileged youngsters at half the cost of government schooling...\n\nWe all justly complain about the waste, fraud and inefficiency of the military. Why? Because it is a socialist activity – one that there seems no feasible way to privatize. But why should we be any better at running socialist enterprises than the Russians or Chinese?\n\nBy extending socialism far beyond the area where it is unavoidable, we have ended up performing essential government functions far less well than is not only possible but than was attained earlier. In a poorer and less socialist era, we produced a nationwide network of roads and bridges and subway systems that were the envy of the world. Today we are unable even to maintain them.\n\nSome critics of socialism argue that income sharing reduces individual incentives to work and therefore incomes should be individualized as much as possible. Critics of socialism have argued that in any society where everyone holds equal wealth there can be no material incentive to work because one does not receive rewards for a work well done. They further argue that incentives increase productivity for all people and that the loss of those effects would lead to stagnation. In \"The Principles of Political Economy\" (1848), John Stuart Mill said: \n\nHowever, he later altered his views and adopted a socialist perspective, adding chapters to his \"Principles of Political Economy\" in defense of a socialist outlook and defending some socialist causes. Within this revised work, he also made the radical proposal that the whole wage system be abolished in favour of a co-operative wage system. Nonetheless, some of his views on the idea of flat taxation remained, albeit in a slightly toned down form.\n\nEconomist John Kenneth Galbraith has criticized communal forms of socialism that promote egalitarianism in terms of wages/compensation as unrealistic in its assumptions about human motivation: \n\nAccording to economist Hans-Hermann Hoppe, countries where the means of production are socialized are not as prosperous as those where the means of production are under private control. Ludwig von Mises, a classical liberal economist, argued that aiming for more equal incomes through state intervention necessarily leads to a reduction in national income and therefore average income. Consequently, the socialist chooses the objective of a more equal distribution of income on the assumption that the marginal utility of income to a poor person is greater than that to a rich person. According to Mises, this mandates a preference for a lower average income over inequality of income at a higher average income. He sees no rational justification for this preference and he also states that there is little evidence that the objective of greater income equality is achieved.\n\nIn \"The Road to Serfdom\", Friedrich Hayek argued that the more even distribution of wealth through the nationalization of the means of production advocated by certain socialists cannot be achieved without a loss of political, economic and human rights. According to Hayek, to achieve control over means of production and distribution of wealth it is necessary for such socialists to acquire significant powers of coercion. Hayek argued that the road to socialism leads society to totalitarianism and argued that fascism and Nazism were the inevitable outcome of socialist trends in Italy and Germany during the preceding period.\n\nHayek was critical of the bias shown by university teachers and intellectuals towards socialist ideals. He argued that socialism is not a working class movement as socialists contend, but rather \"the construction of theorists, deriving from certain tendencies of abstract thought with which for a long time only the intellectuals were familiar; and it required long efforts by the intellectuals before the working classes could be persuaded to adopt it as their program\".\n\nPeter Self criticizes the traditional socialist planned economy and argues against pursuing \"extreme equality\" because he believes it requires \"strong coercion\" and does not allow for \"reasonable recognition [for] different individual needs, tastes (for work or leisure) and talents\". He recommends market socialism instead.\n\nObjectivists criticize socialism as devaluing the individual and making people incapable of choosing their own values as decisions are made centrally. They also reject socialism's indifference to property rights.\n\nSome critics of socialism have argued that in a socialist state the leadership will either become corrupted or be replaced by corrupt people and this would prevent the goals of socialism from being realized.\n\nLord Acton's aphorism that \"power tends to corrupt\" has been used by critics of socialism to argue that the leadership of a socialist state would be more susceptible to corruption than others because a socialist state has a broader scope than other states. Milton Friedman argued that the absence of private economic activity would enable political leaders to grant themselves coercive powers. In his campaign against socialist candidate Clement Attlee in the 1945 elections, Winston Churchill claimed that socialism requires totalitarian methods, including a political police, in order to achieve its goals.\n\nFriedrich Hayek made a slightly different, but related argument. He conceded that the leaders of the socialist movement had idealistic motives and did not argue that they would become corrupt or resort to totalitarian methods once in power. However, he argued that the kind of state structure they wish to set up would eventually attract a new generation of leaders motivated by cynical ambition rather than any ideals and these new leaders would enact repressive measures while at the same time giving up attempts to implement the original goals of socialism.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "657928", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=657928", "title": "Cut Spelling", "text": "Cut Spelling\n\nCut Spelling is a system of English-language spelling reform which reduces redundant letters and makes substitutions to improve correspondence with the spoken word. It was designed by Christopher Upward and was for a time being popularized by the Simplified Spelling Society. The resulting words are 8–15% shorter than standard spellings. The name \"Cut Spelling\" was coined by psychologist Valerie Yule.\n\nUnlike some other proposed reforms, Cut Spelling does not attempt to make English spelling phonemic, but merely attempts to remove many of the unneeded difficulties of the current spelling. Cut Spelling differs from \"traditional orthography\" mainly in removing letters from words and makes relatively few substitutions of letters compared with other proposed reforms. According to its designers, this allows readers accustomed to traditional orthography to get used to Cut Spelling fairly quickly and easily, while still giving learners of the language a much-simplified and more systematic spelling system.\n\nCut Spelling uses three main substitution rules to convert traditional spellings into \"cut spellings\":\n\n\nThe Cut Spelling system also uses three substitution rules:\n\n\"The Cut Spelling Handbook\" also lists optional additional rules such as replacing \"ch\" with \"k\" when it makes the sound, respelling as \"y\" unusual patterns that make the diphthong, as well as replacing \"-tion\", \"-cian\", \"-sion\", \"-ssion\", etc. with \"-shn\".\n\n\"Wen readrs first se Cut Spelng, as in this sentnce, they ofn hesitate slytly, but then quikly becom acustmd to th shortnd words and soon find text in Cut Spelng as esy to read as Traditional Orthografy, but it is th riter ho realy apreciates th advantajs of Cut Spelng, as many of th most trublsm uncertntis hav been elimnated.\"\n\nTh Space Race was th competition between th United States and th Soviet Union, rufly from 1957 to 1975. It involvd th efrts by each of these nations to explor outr space with satlites, to be th 1st to send there a human being and to send mand and unmand missions on th Moon with a safe return of th humans to Erth.\n\nTho its roots lie in erly roket tecnolojy and in th intrnationl tensions foloing World War II, th Space Race efectivly began with th Soviet launch of Sputnik 1 on 4 Octobr 1957. Th term orijnated as an analojy to th arms race. Th Space Race became an important part of th cultrl and tecnolojicl rivalry between th USSR and th U.S. during th Cold War. Space tecnolojy became a particularly important arena in this conflict, both because of its military applications and du to th sycolojicl benefit of rasing morale.\n\nRokets hav intrestd sientists and amatrs for at least 2,100 years, and Blak Chinese soldirs used them as wepns as erly as th 11th century. Russian sientist Konstantin Tsiolkovsky theorized in th 1880s on multi-staje, liquid fuel rokets which myt reach space, but only in 1926 did th american Robert Goddard desyn a practicl liquid-fuel roket.\nNote\nThe example above assumes British pronunciation by abbreviating \"military\" to \"militry\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1164377", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1164377", "title": "Evangelical Alliance", "text": "Evangelical Alliance\n\nThe Evangelical Alliance (EA) seeks to represent evangelical Christians in the UK. Formed in 1846, the Alliance aims to bring Christians together and help them listen to, and be heard by, the government, media and society.\n\nHeadquarters is in London with offices in Cardiff, Glasgow and Belfast. The Alliance works across 79 denominations, 3,300 churches, 750 organisations and thousands of individual members. It is also a founding member of the World Evangelical Alliance (WEA), a global network of more than 600 million evangelical Christians, which in January 2015 announced plans for closer cooperation and witness with the World Council of Churches.\n\nThe Evangelical Alliance was formed in 1846. The major founders were Ridley Haim Herschell, Rev. Edward Steane, a Baptist pastor from Camberwell, John Henderson of Park and Sir Culling Eardley, 3rd Baronet. Eardley became the first chairperson and he led the new organisation as it campaigned internationally for religious freedom. In 1852 he campaigned on behalf of the Tuscan prisoners of conscience Francesco Madiai and Rosa Madiai. (They had been imprisoned when they announced that they had become Protestants).\n\nThe Evangelical Alliance has over 3300 church members. Several well-known Christian organisations are also members of the Alliance, for example Tearfund - which was originally established by the Evangelical Alliance - Hope 08, Fusion and Serving In Mission (SIM).\n\nThe General Director of the Alliance is Steve Clifford, replacing Joel Edwards in April 2009. Gavin Calver is Director of Churches in Mission, while Dave Landrum was appointed as Director of Advocacy in March 2011. Peter Lynas directs Northern Ireland, Fred Drummond, Scotland, and Elfed Godding, Wales.\n\nThe Evangelical Alliance has supported ecumenism with the Roman Catholic Church. This has been countered with claims that ecumenism is not consistent with the historic evangelical practice or doctrine of its founders.\n\nThe alliance is openly opposed to same-sex relationships and homosexuality, preaching sexual abstinence for those with same-sex attractions and only allowing lesbian and gay people to join the organisation on the basis that they \"come to see the need to be transformed\". Through Gweini (The Council of the Christian Voluntary Sector in Wales), Stephen Crabb MP is associated with the evangelical group.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38897440", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38897440", "title": "Fairness Campaign", "text": "Fairness Campaign\n\nThe Fairness Campaign is a Louisville, Kentucky-based lobbying and advocacy organization, focusing primarily on preventing discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation and gender identity. The Fairness Campaign is recognized by the IRS as a 501(c)4 organization. The organization is a member of the Equality Federation.\n\nIn 1981, Sam Dorr, a branch manager at Louisville's First National Bank, was fired from his job because he was gay. The incident, and Dorr's subsequent lawsuit, led many of Louisville's homosexual men and women to form Gays and Lesbians United for Equality (GLUE), to educate the public and raise awareness for gay rights issues. GLUE's focus on education and awareness left many in Louisville's gay community calling for a more overtly political organization to advance their interests.\n\nIn 1983, a small grassroots group was formed, the Greater Louisville Human Rights Coalition (GLHRC). The GLHRC filled the political void of GLUE, and began their efforts by pressuring Louisville officials to address discrimination in the areas of housing, employment, and public accommodations. Those efforts led to Louisville's first-ever gay rights march, the March for Justice, in which about 300 people marched to the steps of the Jefferson County courthouse in June 1987.\nPublic attention returned to discrimination issues in 1990, when a highly publicized hate crime incident led to the introduction, before the Louisville Board of Aldermen, of a local Hate Crimes Ordinance. The anti-hate crimes ordinance covered race, religion, ethnicity, and sexual orientation. When a final version passed the Board of Aldermen in November 1991, it became the first piece of legislation in Kentucky to provide protection on the basis of sexual orientation.\nThe Fairness Campaign emerged in 1991 as an outgrowth of GLUE, GLHRC, the Kentucky Rainbow Coalition, and the Kentucky Alliance Against Racist and Political Oppression. The Fairness Campaign was announced at the 1991 March for Justice. An early spokesman for the Fairness Campaign has said that the name \"Fairness\" was chosen in part for its rhetorical value. \"Fairness means stopping discrimination, and all discrimination is wrong.\"\n\nThe Fairness Campaign celebrated its 20th anniversary in 2011. U.S. Representative John Yarmuth (KY-3) commemorated the anniversary with a speech from House floor.\n\nThe first goal of the Fairness Campaign was securing a civil rights ordinance in Louisville that extended protection from discrimination to include sexual orientation and gender identity. The Fairness Campaign and its political action committee, Committee for Fairness and Individual Rights (C-FAIR), persuaded the Board of Aldermen to introduce such an ordinance on November 12, 1991. The proposed ordinance, referred to as the Fairness Amendment, extended broad protections, preventing discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation and gender identity in the areas of employment, housing, and public accommodations.\n\nWhile the Fairness Amendment had strong initial public support, opposition from conservative groups, including the Louisville mega-church Southeast Christian, soon mounted. When a key supporter on the Board of Aldermen, Paul Bather, withdrew his support, the ordinance stalled. Despite pressure from the Fairness Campaign and C-FAIR, the ordinance failed again in 1992. A pared-down version, preventing discrimination only in employment, also failed in a 1995 vote. The broad ordinance was voted down again in 1997.\n\nIn 1998, a daycare employee named Alicia Pedreira was fired from her job because she was a lesbian. Like the Dorr incident in 1981, this firing drew attention to the issue of workplace discrimination, and directly countered claims by opponents of the ordinance that such discrimination did not occur in Louisville.\n\nIn early January 1999, the Fairness Campaign proposed three separate ordinances—one addressing employment discrimination, the second addressing housing discrimination, and the third addressing public accommodations discrimination. The Board of Aldermen took up the employment ordinance first, separate from the other two ordinances and against the backdrop of the Pedreira incident. When Alderman President Steve Magre switched his no-vote after hearing citizen's accounts of workplace discrimination, passage was all but assured. The employment discrimination ordinance passed the Board of Aldermen on January 26, 1999, making it the first piece of legislation to protect people on the basis of sexual orientation or gender identity to be passed in Kentucky.\n\nWhen passage of the Louisville ordinance became clearer, the Fairness Campaign pushed for passage of a broader fairness ordinance for Jefferson County, which included not only Louisville, but also a large area surrounding Louisville. The proposed county ordinance covered housing and public accommodations, as well as employment.\n\nThe ordinance had the support of two of the three Jefferson County Commissioners, and was opposed by County Judge Executive Rebecca Jackson, who would also cast a vote on the proposed ordinance. The third commissioner, Joe Corradino, ultimately decided to support the ordinance, and it passed on October 12, 1999. Corradino lost his campaign for re-election less than a month later, as conservative voters, angry over his decisive vote, mobilized to oppose him.\n\nThe Louisville Metro Government was created when voters approved a merger between the City of Louisville and Jefferson County. The new legislative branch of Louisville Metro, the Metro Council, had a five-year limit to adopt or amend the old ordinances of the two defunct governments. Both fairness ordinances would have therefore expired in 2007 had the Metro Council not acted.\n\nFacing a new opportunity to defeat the ordinances, many of the same opposition forces mobilized to lobby Metro Council members to vote against adoption. The opposition campaign doubled down, producing inflammatory television commercials and sending out provocative and vulgur mass mailings. The Metro Council ultimately voted to adopt a broad fairness ordinance—protecting against discrimination in employment, housing, and public accommodations—in a bipartisan vote of 19-6. Some Council members attributed their votes for the ordinance to the nasty opposition campaign.\n\nMayor Jerry Abramson signed the ordinance into law on December 10, 2004.\n\nThe Fairness Campaign has also had a hand in passing ordinances similar to the one in Louisville in the Kentucky cities of Lexington, Covington, and Henderson. The Henderson ordinance, which passed in 1999, was repealed 18 months later by officials who campaigned on their promise to repeal.\n\nMore recently, the Fairness Campaign and the statewide Fairness Coalition worked with officials in the towns of Midway, Danville, Morehead, Frankfort, and the small town of Vicco to pass an anti-discrimination ordinance. Fairness assisted in the drafting and implementation of this measure. In banning discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation or gender identity Vicco became the smallest town in Kentucky and the United States to pass such an ordinance.\n\nThe Fairness Campaign actively opposed the proposed 2004 amendment to the Kentucky Constitution defining marriage as between one man and one woman. The Fairness Campaign's Fairness Education Fund paid for billboard signage and thousands of postcard mailings to voters. The Fairness Campaign spent $17,000 opposing the amendment. Opposition groups spent almost $523,000 trying to defeat the measure.\n\nThe amendment ultimately passed with 75% support. Kentucky was one of eleven states to pass similar measures prohibiting same-sex marriage in 2004 as part of a massive conservative mobilization effort on the issue.\n\nThe Fairness Campaign promotes statewide legislation that provides protection against discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation or gender identity. The 2014 Kentucky General Assembly saw a record number of co-sponsors on both the House and Senate versions of the Statewide Fairness legislation—18 co-sponsors in the House, up from the previous record 10 and six co-sponsors in the Senate, up from five. In one of the largest endorsements of the Statewide Fairness legislation to date, Speaker of the House Greg Stumbo (Prestonsburg) signed on to the House bill for the first time in 2014. Weeks later, the Statewide Fairness legislation, led by Representative Mary Lou Marzian (Louisville), received its first-ever hearing in the House Judiciary Committee under the leadership of Chairman John Tilley (Hopkinsville). Though no vote was taken, Chairman Tilley expressed personal support and suggested the committee would take the issue up again.\n\nFairness Campaign leaders have met opposition to LGBT rights in a number of public debates, most notably on Kentucky Education Television's public affairs program, Kentucky Tonight, hosted by Bill Goodman. Kentucky Tonight held a debate on anti-LGBT adoption legislation in 2009, LGBT marriage in 2012, the Federal Employment Non-Discrimination Act in 2013, Statewide Fairness legislation and LGBT marriage again in 2014, following federal court rulings striking down LGBT marriage bans in Kentucky.\n\nIn August 2011, the Fairness Campaign condemned threatening statements made on Facebook by then-treasurer of C-FAIR, Anthony Casebeer. Casebeer made these statements in response to a paper co-written by lesbian activist Cathy Brennan, which proposed that extension of transgender rights could curtail the rights of women. A posting on Casebeer's Facebook page said that a \"nice home run swing to the head with a 38-oz. Louisville Slugger is more in order,\" and that if the poster \"ever saw [Brennan] in my windshield, I'll be wiping blood off my white Buick. But I won't be using the brakes.\" Casebeer later apologized to Brennan and resigned from his post at C-FAIR.\n\nIn March 2012, after a bill supported by the Fairness Campaign to protect students from bullying died in committee, director Chris Hartman confronted a lobbyist for the conservative opposition group in the hallway of the Capitol Annex in Frankfort. A spokesman for the conservative Kentucky Family Foundation alleged that Hartman was harassing the lobbyist and using abusive language. Hartman has said that he asked the lobbyist \"What would Jesus do?\" and was frustrated when the lobbyist would not respond to his questions. Hartman noted that the incident took place in front of the press and the Capitol police, and that the spokesman from the Family Foundation was the only person to see an issue.\n\nOn March 23, 2013, Hartman's car was vandalized with a swastika. Hartman called the police to report that his car had been sideswiped while parked on the street, but when officers responded to the scene they noticed a swastika had been drawn on a Fairness Campaign sticker and that two Obama campaign stickers had also been defaced. Louisville Metro Police investigated the incident as a hate crime.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31521336", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31521336", "title": "Final Solution of the Czech Question", "text": "Final Solution of the Czech Question\n\nThe Final Solution of the Czech Question () was the Nazi German plan for the complete Germanization of the Protectorate of Bohemia and Moravia. German sociologist and anthropologist Karl Valentin Müller asserted that a large part of the Czech nation was racially Aryan and could be Germanized. This was in stark contrast to Germany's Final Solution to the Jewish Question. However, Müller asserted that the Germanization should take place without coercion; instead, he suggested a system of social incentives.\n\nOn 27 September 1941 Reinhard Heydrich was appointed Deputy Reich Protector of the Protectorate of Bohemia and Moravia (the part of Czechoslovakia incorporated into the Reich on 15 March 1939) and assumed control. The Reich Protector, Konstantin von Neurath, remained titular head but was sent on \"leave\" because Hitler, Himmler, and Heydrich felt his \"soft approach\" to the Czechs had promoted anti-German sentiment and encouraged resistance via strikes and sabotage. On his appointment, Heydrich told his aides: \"We will Germanize the Czech vermin.\"\n\nHeydrich came to Prague to enforce policy, fight resistance to the Nazi regime, and keep up production quotas of Czech motors and arms that were \"extremely important to the German war effort\". He viewed the area as a bulwark of Germandom and condemned the Czech resistance's \"stabs in the back\". \n\nIn the furtherance of his goals, Heydrich decreed racial classification of those who could and could not be Germanized. He explained: \"Making this Czech garbage into Germans must yield to methods based on racist thought.\" Racial surveys, conducted under pretext of tuberculosis prevention, found the Czechs to be more Nordic than the Sudeten Germans, East Prussians, and many Austrians and Bavarians. These results were kept secret. In 1940 Hitler agreed that around half of the Czech population were suitable for Germanization, while the \"mongoloid types\" and the Czech intelligentsia were not to be Germanized.\n\nUnder \"Generalplan Ost\", the Nazis had intended to displace the un-Germanizable population to Siberia. However, due to the war effort's need for labor, this plan was never implemented.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "962501", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=962501", "title": "Floating car data", "text": "Floating car data\n\nFloating car data (FCD), also known as floating cellular data, is a method to determine the traffic speed on the road network. It is based on the collection of localization data, speed, direction of travel and time information from mobile phones in vehicles that are being driven. These data are the essential source for traffic information and for most intelligent transportation systems (ITS). This means that every vehicle with an active mobile phone acts as a sensor for the road network. Based on these data, traffic congestion can be identified, travel times can be calculated, and traffic reports can be rapidly generated. In contrast to traffic cameras, number plate recognition systems, and induction loops embedded in the roadway, no additional hardware on the road network is necessary.\n\nFloating cellular data is one of the methods to collect floating car data. This method uses cellular network data (CDMA, GSM, UMTS, GPRS). No special devices/hardware are necessary: every switched-on mobile phone becomes a traffic probe and is as such an anonymous source of information. The location of the mobile phone is determined using (1) triangulation or (2) the hand-over data stored by the network operator. As GSM localisation is less accurate than GPS based systems, many phones must be tracked and complex algorithms used to extract high-quality data. For example, care must be taken not to misinterpret cellular phones on a high speed railway track near the road as incredibly fast journeys along the road. However, the more congestion, the more cars, the more phones and thus more probes. In metropolitan areas where traffic data are most needed the distance between cell sites is lower and thus precision increases. Advantages over GPS-based or conventional methods such as cameras or street embedded sensors include: No infrastructure or hardware in cars or along the road. It is much less expensive, offers more coverage of more streets, it is faster to set up (no work zones) and needs less maintenance. In 2007, GDOT demonstrated in Atlanta that such system can emulate very well road sensors data for section speeds.\n\nVehicle re-identification methods require sets of detectors mounted along the road. In this technique, a unique serial number for a device in the vehicle is detected at one location and then detected again (re-identified) further down the road. Travel times and speed are calculated by comparing the time at which a specific device is detected by pairs of sensors. This can be done using the Media Access Control (MAC) addresses from Bluetooth devices, or using the radio-frequency identification (RFID) serial numbers from Electronic Toll Collection (ETC) transponders (also called \"toll tags\").\n\nThe ETC transponders, which are uniquely identifiable, may be read not only at toll collection points (e.g. toll bridges) but also at many non-toll locations. This is used as a method to collect traffic flow data (which is anonymized) for the San Francisco Bay Area's 5-1-1 service.\n\nIn New York City's Midtown in Motion program, its adaptive traffic control system also use RFID readers to track movement of E-ZPass tags as a means of monitoring traffic flow. The data is fed through the government-dedicated broadband wireless infrastructure to the traffic management center to be used in adaptive traffic control of the traffic lights.\n\nA small number of cars (typically fleet vehicles such as courier services and taxi drivers) are equipped with a box that contains a GPS receiver. The data are then communicated with the service provider using the regular on-board radio unit or via cellular network data (more expensive).\n\nIt is possible that FCD could be used as a surveillance method, although the companies deploying FCD systems give assurances that all data are anonymized in their systems, or kept sufficiently secure to prevent abuses.\n\n"}
{"id": "10655215", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10655215", "title": "Fukuromachi Elementary School Peace Museum", "text": "Fukuromachi Elementary School Peace Museum\n\nThe Fukuromachi Elementary School Peace Museum (袋町小学校平和資料館 \"Fukuromachi Shogakkou Heiwa Shiryokan\") is a peace museum in Fukuromachi, Naka-ku, Hiroshima, Japan. The school was one of the closest schools to ground zero when the atomic bomb fell on August 6, 1945. They lost about 160 students and teachers and the building was heavily damaged. After a few days, the school became a first aid station, and its black burned wall became a message board to find missing people. The Peace Museum is the section of the school building with the basement of the former Municipal Fukuromachi Elementary School in Hiroshima. The school is keeping it as a relic of the atomic explosion, to foster peace, and to send their information to the world.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24240447", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24240447", "title": "Gesellschaft für deutsche Sprache", "text": "Gesellschaft für deutsche Sprache\n\nThe (, \"Association for the German Language\"), or , is Germany's most important government-sponsored language society. Its headquarters are in Wiesbaden Re-founded shortly after the Second World War in 1947, the is politically independent and the declared successor of the \" (), the General Association for the German Language, which had been founded 1885 in Brunswick, Germany. Its aim is to research and cultivate the German language; to critically evaluate the current German language change; and to give recommendations concerning the current usage of German.\n\nWith its language advice service, the supports individuals, companies, authorities and institutions concerning questions of the usage of contemporary German with regard to spelling, grammar and style.\n\nIn a bi-annual public ceremony, the awards the Media Award for Language Culture (\"). Furthermore, and in co-operation with the Alexander Rhomberg Foundation, the awards the annual Alexander Rhomberg Award for young journalists.\n\nSince 1971, the produces the annual language retrospective, well known for its Word of the Year ()\n\nThe editorial panel of the parliament (\") gives linguistic advice to both the Federal Council () and the Federal parliament . They also advise ministries and authorities on both federal and state level as regards the linguistic correctness of draft legislation, by-laws, orders and other texts.\n\nThe most important task of the is to revise the language of draft legislation, by-laws and orders whose legal terminology must be formulated clearly and concisely.\n\nThe publishes two linguistic journals, ' and '.\n\n\" was founded in 1957 as a result of the practical work of the , it is the association's newsletter, published bi-monthly, with a circulation of 3,200 (2012) and aims to address a broad, general audience with an interest in linguistic issues. The publication mainly focuses on historical linguistics, grammar, stylistics, phraseology, terminology, onomastics and spelling, but also contains articles dealing with more general questions concerning the use of current German.\n\nThe 's highly-regarded quarterly academic journal \"\", in its 122nd year of publication with a circulation of 1,000 covering over 40 countries, focuses entirely on specialist linguistic matters.\n\nThe chairman of the is , a professional linguist and Professor of Germanic Linguistics at Otto-von-Guericke University Magdeburg; the Secretary is Dr Andrea-Eva Ewels, also a professional linguist.\n\n, the association consists of a 103 branches in 35 countries on four continents, 47 in Germany and 56 abroad.\n\n, 50 branches are located in Germany, with at least one branch in each of the 16 German federal states:\n\n\nIf a federal state has more than one branch, then at least one branch is located in the capital of the tate.\n\n, the has 59 branches outside Germany, in 38 countries on four continents:\n\n\nThe chairman represents the on the Council for German Orthography ('). In 2003, both organisations, together with the and the Institute of the German Language, founded the German Language Council (') which was later also joined by the German Academic Exchange Service ().\n\nThe is connected to various Universities and other education institutions with an interest in linguistics, e.g. the German Academy for Language and Poetry and the Institute of the German Language (IDS).\n\n"}
{"id": "1721423", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1721423", "title": "Government performance auditing", "text": "Government performance auditing\n\nGovernment performance auditing focuses on improving how governments provide programs and services. While there is no one universally agreed upon definition, there are key definitions which capture the scope of government performance auditing. According to Government Auditing Standards, \"Performance audits are defined as audits that provide findings or conclusions based on an evaluation of sufficient, appropriate evidence against criteria.\" Additionally, the International Organization of Supreme Audit Institutions defines performance auditing as \"an independent examination of the efficiency and effectiveness of government undertakings, programs or organizations, with due regard to economy, and the aim of leading to improvements.\"\n\nGovernment performance auditing was developed in the late 1960s and shepherded by the United States Government Accountability Office, (the chief audit arm of the US federal government). Government performance auditing has since spread to Canada and Israel, and most American state governments, flourishing in other countries under the leardership of the International Organisation of Supreme Audit Institutions (INTOSAI).\n\nIn Canada the Auditor General of Canada has strongly advocated a similar approach to improve government at all levels. This complements other efforts in that country such as the FCM InfraGuide for best practice exchange of all routine municipal infrastructure management problems.\n\nIn Israel, the State Comptroller, originally serving as in the role of the Comptroller and auditor general common through the British Commonwealth, has later assumed the functions of a Government Performance Auditor and of an Ombudsman\n\nGovernment audit organizations generally utilize established standards to conduct performance audits. In the United States, audit organizations use either Generally Accepted Government Auditing Standards, known as the Yellow Book, or the Institute of Internal Auditors's International Professional Practices Framework, known as the Red Book.\n\nThe US Government Accountability Office (GAO) promolgates the Yellow Book. In July 2018, GAO issued a new revision of the Yellow Book , which supercedes the 2011 revision. The 2018 revision is effective for financial audits, attestation engagements, and reviews of financial statements for periods ending on or after June 30, 2020, and for performance audits beginning on or after July 1, 2019. The Yellow Book in current usage was issued in December 2011, which is referred to as the 2011 Standards . For performance audits, provisions of the 2011 Standards guide any performance audit starting after December 15, 2011. The effective date for financial audits and attestation engagements is for periods ending on or after December 15, 2012.\n\nThe Association of Local Governments Auditors (ALGA) represents the central professional organization for local government audit organizations in the United States and Canada. ALGA was formed in 1989 and has over 300 organizational members and more than 2,000 individual members of ALGA. \n\nThe International Organization of Supreme Audit Institutions(INTOSAI) operates as an umbrella organisation for the external government audit community. For more than 50 years it has provided an institutionalised framework for supreme audit institutions to promote development and transfer of knowledge, improve government auditing worldwide and enhance professional capacities, standing and influence of member SAIs in their respective countries. In keeping with INTOSAI's motto, 'Experientia mutua omnibus prodest', the exchange of experience among INTOSAI members and the findings and insights which result, are a guarantee that government auditing continuously progresses with new developments.\nINTOSAI is an autonomous, independent and non-political organisation. It is a non-governmental organisation with special consultative status with the Economic and Social Council (ECOSOC) of the United Nations.\nINTOSAI was founded in 1953 at the initiative of Emilio Fernandez Camus, then President of the SAI of Cuba. At that time, 34 SAIs met for the 1st INTOSAI Congress in Cuba. At present INTOSAI has 190 Full Members and 4 Associated Members.\n\nINTOSAI - International Organization of Supreme Audit Institutions has published the following definition of Performance Audit:\n\n\"Performance auditing is an independent examination of the efficiency and effectiveness of government undertakings, programs or organizations, with due regard to economy, and the aim of leading to improvements.\"\n\nGovernment financial reports\n\n"}
{"id": "11825603", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11825603", "title": "Gun buyback program", "text": "Gun buyback program\n\nA gun buyback program is one instituted to purchase privately owned firearms. The goal, when purchasing is done by the police, is to reduce the number of firearms owned by civilians, and provide a process whereby civilians can sell their privately owned firearms to the government without risk of prosecution. In most cases, the agents purchasing the guns are local police when purchasing firearms for the government.\n\nIn July 2007 Argentina initiated a national gun buyback program that ran until December 2008. Participation in the program was voluntary and anonymous. Individuals received between 100 and 450 pesos (or US$30 to US$145) per firearm depending on its type. All types of firearms were accepted including legal as well as illegal weapons. The 2007-2008 buyback collected a total of 104,782 firearms or around 7% of the county's estimated total number of firearms as well as 747,000 units of ammunition. Indications are that the buyback was successful in reducing the number of gun related deaths from accidents and has done quite a few to reduce the number of gun related deaths in suicides, homicides and car thefts.\n\nAustralia had mandatory buyback programs in 1996 and 2003. Both programs were temporary and involved compensation paid to owners of firearms made illegal by gun law changes and surrendered to the government. Bought back firearms were destroyed.\n\nThe 1996 \"National Firearms Buyback Program\" took 660,959 firearms out of private hands comprising long guns, mostly semi-automatic rimfire rifles and shotguns as well as pump-action shotguns, and a smaller proportion of higher powered or military type semi-automatic rifles. Because the Australian Constitution requires the Commonwealth to pay \"just compensation\" for private property it takes over, the Government increased the Medicare levy from 1.5% to 1.7% of income for one year to finance the buyback program. The buyback was expected to cost $500 million. The payments from the Commonwealth were conditional on the States and Territories introducing firearms laws and regulations consistent with the National Firearms Agreement.\n\nIn 2003 new handgun laws made illegal target pistols of greater than .38 calibre and handguns with barrels less than 120mm (semi-automatic) or 100mm (revolvers) such as pocket pistols. With an exception for persons participating in International Shooting Sport Federation events, which count as Olympic and Commonwealth Games qualifiers, to access highly specialised target pistols which fail to meet the new barrel restrictions. The Coalition of Australian Governments agreed to this restricted use on the grounds that these highly specialised target pistols are large, visually distinctive and not readily concealable due to their overall size.\n\nIn 2017, Australia had a national firearms amnesty, the first since 1996, in which individuals could surrender illegal firearms for destruction.\n\nIn two gun buyback programs between 2003 and 2009, the Brazilian government collected and destroyed over 1.1 million guns. In 2004, the Brazilian government implemented a six-month national gun buyback program that met its stated objective of collecting 80,000 guns in less than three months. The government budgeted $3 million for the program, in which participants were given up to $100 per gun that they handed in.\n\nPart of the 2004 buyback included strengthening gun regulations such as: making it illegal to own unregistered firearms or to carry a gun outside of one's home; raising the minimum age to own a gun to 25; and imposing new penalties on those that violate these laws. One study suggests that the buyback \"contributed to the observed reduction in firearm related mortality.\"\n\nWhat is believed to have been the first gun buyback program was in Baltimore in 1974. Gun homicides and assaults actually rose during the two-month program, and it was deemed a failure, though no reason for the crime rate increase was given. Similar programs followed in other cities, including some cities that repeated their programs. However, no evaluation of such programs were published until 1994, after three researchers analyzed a 1992 buyback in Seattle, Washington. The study found that the \"effect on decreasing violent crime and reducing firearm mortality is unknown.\"\n\nGun buybacks have been held in Tucson (one in 2013) and Phoenix (three in 2013).\n\nIn 2013, House Bill 2455 was signed into law by Governor Jan Brewer. H.B. 2455 and Arizona Revised Statute 12-945 were enacted after lobbying by the National Rifle Association and other organizations and require that firearms seized by, surrendered to or acquired by law enforcement or other government agencies may not be destroyed. Firearms acquired through programs such as gun buybacks or seized in the course of a criminal investigation that are legal for private citizens to possess must be disposed of by sale to a federal firearms licensed dealer. These statutes have raised controversy, with opponents charging that the statutes will turn gun buybacks into recycling programs. Proponents of the measures point out that firearms purchased through private buyback programs may be destroyed.\n\nOn December 15, 2012, the day after the Sandy Hook Elementary School shooting in Newtown, Connecticut, an anonymous donor funded gun buyback events in Oakland and San Francisco, California. Hundreds of area residents received $200 cash for each firearm sold, \"no questions asked.\" The guns were to be destroyed. A mile-long line of cars lined up into the East Oakland church parking lot that served as that community's exchange location, prompting the private donor to double his contribution.\n\nOver 600 guns were bought between the two locations. One week later, it was learned that the event was largely funded by a medical marijuana dispensary, whose executive director said, \"It's part of the philosophy we practice called capitalism with a conscience.\"\n\nThere was a buyback program in Los Angeles that offered prepaid credit and grocery cards in exchange for guns.\n\nFor two months in 1974, the Baltimore Police Department ran what is believed to have been the first gun buyback program in the U.S. Police commissioner Donald Pomerleau, not known as an advocate for strict gun control, reportedly came up with the idea while at a funeral for an officer who was shot in the line of duty. Operation PASS (People Against Senseless Shootings) paid a $50 \"bounty\" for surrendered guns and $100 for tips leading to the confiscation of illegal guns. Some bounty seekers attempted to game the system by buying cheap, new guns that retailed for $21.95 and then trying to turn them in. In all, the police collected 13,500 firearms - mostly handguns - at a cost of over $660,000. However, the city's already high gun homicide and assault rates actually increased during the program, for which police officials offered no explanation.\n\nFrom July 12–14, 2006, the Boston Police Department, with support from dozens of community and faith-based organizations, collected 1,000 firearms. Residents received $200 Target gift cards in exchange for their guns.\n\nAt an August 2012 buyback, the Detroit Police Department paid $16,820 for 365 guns, including six assault weapons and a few sawed-off shotguns. The guns were accepted \"no questions asked\" at a church where members had collected $18,000 to help get dangerous weapons off the street. People could receive from $50 to $100 for unloaded, operational weapons. Gun-carrying protesters offered those in line more money not to turn in their firearms.\n\nA buyback in Camden, New Jersey, in December 2012 collected 1,137 firearms. In April 2013, Newark Police Department collected more than 200 firearms during a buyback funded by Jewelry for a Cause. This was the first buyback in the city's history to be completely funded through private sources. Such programs allow residents to turn in guns for cash. In January 2014, Newark police director Samuel DeMaio said he was reviewing the implementation of an ongoing program instead of once or twice a year. Gun buybacks in several locations in Essex County, New Jersey, including Newark, collected about 1,700 guns in February 2013.\n\nThe city of Seattle has experimented with Gun Buy Back Programs since the early 1990s. Seattle's 1992 gun buyback was initiated in response to a string of shootings in a local neighborhood. The buyback program was watched with great interest given the local demographic and the generally positive public support for the buyback from residents of Seattle and the surrounding area. A public health survey titled \"Money for Guns\" was conducted and while it concluded that no statistically significant result was produced on Seattle's gun crime or gun death ratio, the report maintained that a larger buyback program would be sure to yield positive results. Over 20 years later Seattle would again make headline for its bold gun buyback program in 2013, but perhaps not for the reasons the programs sponsors and organizers would have liked. While the program, could be considered a success, collecting more than 700 guns, handing out almost $70,000 in gift cards and even netting a Stinger missile launcher tube (minus the missile), the program also had a widely unanticipated effect from the local gun buying community. Hundreds of gun buyers showed up to the event seeking to offer cash for valuable antiques or functioning second hand firearms. The lack of any need for background check in transactions involving private firearms sales turned the city sponsored event into an open air gun bazaar. Since then Seattle has not suffered alone in its gun buyback program woes, with other cities experiencing similar problems, whether it be private sales or local gun owners taking advantage of lucrative gift card offers to unload rusted or non-functioning firearms onto the police.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51615981", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51615981", "title": "Homelessness in France", "text": "Homelessness in France\n\nHomelessness in France is a significant social issue, one that is estimated to affect over 140,000 people, including 30,000 children,\n\nOne study of homeless in Paris found that homeless people have a high degree of social proximity to other people living in conditions of poverty. And terms in the media used to describe homelessness are formed around poverty and vagrancy.\n\nSome researchers maintain that a Housing First policy would not solve the homelessness issue in France.\n\nSome researchers maintain that industrial restructuring in France led to the loss of jobs among blue-collar workers whose skills did not transfer readily\nto other job sectors, which in turn led to a rise in homelessness.\n\nHomeless children in France is not a new phenomenon; the writer Emile Zola wrote about homeless children in late nineteenth century France.\n\n"}
{"id": "42378114", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42378114", "title": "Human rights in Palau", "text": "Human rights in Palau\n\nThe Republic of Palau has had a turbulent history over the last 450 years, with many states claiming ownership over them. Since World War II, the Islands came under United Nation’s (UN) trusteeship and were administered by the United States. After becoming a sovereign state in 1994, Palau joined the UN and ratified the Convention on the Rights of a Child (CRC) in 1995, the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities (CRPD) and the Optional Protocol to the CRPD in 2013. In 2011, the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights (ICCPR) in 2011 and other core human rights treaties were signed. These treaties are yet to be ratified.\n\nPalau's constitution and laws confer most human rights to its citizens, and with the UN and the United States continuing to have a strong influence over the island nation, Palau is continuing to work towards complying with human rights standards expounded by the UN.\n\nIn September 2011, Palau signed seven core human rights treaties. The Pacific Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights congratulated Palau on these signatures, noting that “the commitment shown by these signatures is remarkable and gives a clear message that Palau has now started a journey to provide people in the country with a stronger foundation to enjoy human rights and fundamental freedoms.”\n\nTraditional Palauan culture and current constitutional protection afford a high degree of care to Palauan children. It is noted that the situation for children is generally good and that in some instances there is a higher degree of protection than is mandated for in the Convention on the Rights of the Child. There is a strong family dynamic, which includes extended family all taking part in “the child’s evolving capacity” and “best interests”. However, Palau is experiencing extreme change to their economic, cultural and societal nature, due globalisation and climate change.\n\nIt must be noted, that along with strong care of the child, most adults in Palau are comfortable with physical discipline, this is because in both civil society and law, discipline and control of children are seen as a right and responsibility of the parents. In 2001, seven years after the signing of the CRC, the United Nations Committee on the Rights of the Child were concerned about the increasing trend of abuse, including sexual, domestic violence, ill-treatment and neglect to the children of Palau. There was also concern about the lack of legal provisions that enabled the Government to step in and remove a child from the situation.\n\nIt was argued that this increase in abuse was due to changing family structure and increasing alcohol and drug intake. Victims of Crime Assistance (VOCA), which handles abuse cases, have found that 80% of the cases are associated with alcohol abuse. In 2009 according to RefWorld, there were 25 reported cases of child abuse. These varied between physical abuse (Eight), neglect (Six) but the most serious was that of sexual abuse (Eleven). Seven of these cases arrived at court and only three resulted in convictions.\n\nEducation has been a main proponent of decreasing physical abuse along with stronger laws, which both seem to have had an impact. It was found by RefWorld in 2013 that although there are still some isolated reports of child neglect, law enforcement officers are treating the issue more seriously and any complaints made are aggressively investigated and prosecuted. Also the Office of Victims of Crimes, work with children who have suffered abuse and the families involved. It appears that Children’s rights are generally respected in this regard traditionally and that the State is working on educating parents on the dangers of physical and emotional abuse and that if there are problems of abuse, that the child is properly cared for.\n\nEducation in Palau has always been considered to be incredibly important. In the 1920s almost 90% of Palaunan children were enrolled at school. Education is free and universal provided by the Government of Palau. In 2007 around 11% of GDP was allocated in expenditure to the education sector. Legislation mandates school attendance from the age of 6 until 17 years of age, which contributes to high literacy rates. There have been concerns that the curriculum is out of date. The Government has responded to criticisms and prepared a series of 10 year master plans that work toward increasing the quality of education. The most recent plan spanning from 2006 to 2016.\n\nThe plans focus on student achievement and quality of instruction by improving teacher training and certification, upgrading school facilities, improving school governance, strengthening student support services, and making the curriculum more relevant. In addition to this, children have a wide range of opportunities offered to them outside of a formal education, which include cultural expression and recreational activities.\n\nGenerally the children are quite healthy, the Palauan children have a low prevalence of children who are unweight and there is no evidence to suggest that there is any food poverty. However, the diet of the Palauan people is poor and contributes to malnutrition and a high incidence of children being overweight. Despite this there is a well-funded system of medical care for children, with no discrimination based on gender. There is discrimination when it comes to children who are not born in Palau. Admittedly there is only a small number of these children but they are not eligible for Palauan citizenship, which can cause problems as under law only those of Palauan’ descent are entitled to free education and health. The Committee of the Rights of the Child and the United States has noted this as a concern, as this type of discrimination is aimed at young vulnerable children.\n\nPalau was the sixth Pacific Island Forum nation to sign the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. The rights of the disabled are applicable to all disabled, young or elderly and are generally respected, with the Government enforcing these rights through legal means. Art. 4.5 of the Constitution designate the disabled to be a vulnerable group entitled to special consideration by the government and acts include Disabled Persons Anti-discrimination Act and a Handicapped Children Act.\n\nThese laws require access to government buildings, which is usually enforced and public schools have established special programs in order to cater to the needs of disabled children. The Government also provides those with disabilities a monthly amount of $50, along with all measures designed to assist them so that they can be as self-reliant as possible. Disabled are also treated as close as possible as to those who are the same age, therefore they are entitled to the same living conditions, protected from exploitation and abuse and they have organisations that liaise with the Government and look after the rights of the disabled\n\nPalau is continuing to work towards strengthening the rights of the disabled. In October 2013, Palau held a three-day workshop to discuss ways to “strengthen support and ensure a better quality of life for person’s living under disabilities”. Together with Omekesang Disabled Persons Organisation, The Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat (PIFS) and the Pacific Disability Forum (PDF), discussion centred around the continued effective implementation of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, where the Minister of Health Gregorio Ngirmang promised that “The Ministry of Health will continue to provide full support to activities related to persons with disabilities; in particular, providing better health related services”. The point was made that it was not just a matter of advocating and promoting rights but also working towards more support so that the aims of the Convention can be fully realised.\n\nIn 2011, one of the treaties signed was the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights. Part II, Art II provided that “Each State Party to the present Covenant undertakes to respect and to ensure to all individuals within its territory and subject to its jurisdiction the rights recognised in the present Covenant, without distinction of any kind, such as…… religion…..birth or other status”. This can be found in accordance with Art. 18 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, everyone has the right to freedom of thought, conscience and religion… and freedom, either alone or in community with others and in public or private, to manifest his religion or belief in teaching, practice, worship and observance.\n\nIn accordance with this human right the Constitution of Palau states that in respect of religious freedom; “The Govt shall take no action to deny or impair the freedom of conscience or of philosophical or religious belief of any person nor take any action to compel, prohibit or hinder the exercise of religion. The Government shall not recognised or establish a national religion, but may provide assistance to private or parochial schools on a fair and equitable basis for non-religious purposes” (Article IV, Section I of the Constitution).\n\nIt further states that; “The Government shall take no action to discriminate against any person on the basis of sex, race, place of origin, language, religion or belief, social status or clan affiliation except for the preferential treatment of citizens, for protection of minors, elderly, indigent, physically or mentally handicapped, and other similar groups, and in matters concerning intr[a]state succession and domestic relations” (Art IV). Palau generally respects a person’s religious freedom with not only the Constitution in place to protect individual’s rights, but other laws and policies.\n\nWhile religious organisations have to apply to register with the Government, they are never denied Further there are no reports of Religious discrimination based on belief or practice from any individual from the state and as mentioned above, while the government does not sponsor nor promote religious groups and activities (including public schools), representatives of any religious group may request financial support for religious schools. The Government also observes Christmas as a national holiday, due to the vast majority of the population being Christian.\n\nIt is estimated that the population of Palau is around 21,000 with the largest domination being Roman Catholic making up 65% of the population. Other religions include Evangelical Church with around 2000 followers, Seventh-day Adventists around 1000, Modekengei (unique to the country) 1800, Latter Day Saints are around 300, and the smallest group is Jehovah’s Witnesses who are around 90.\n\nThe Government continues to ban work permits for citizens of Bangladesh, India and Sri Lanka. The Bangladesh ban was imposed in 1998 while the India and Sri Lanka ban occurred in 2001. These bans were largely motivated due to employers complaints that non-Christian religious practices were interfering in living arrangements of employee families and activities in the work place. Workers from these countries who were already in Palau were not deported and the small Islamic Community of 400 from Bangladesh continues to be allowed to conduct prayers at work during the day and in their own homes. There does not seem to be impediments to their practice of religion or to their continued employment.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16431152", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16431152", "title": "Integrated Food Security Phase Classification", "text": "Integrated Food Security Phase Classification\n\nThe Integrated Food Security Phase Classification (IPC), also known as IPC scale, is a tool for improving food security analysis and decision-making. It is a standardised scale that integrates food security, nutrition and livelihood information into a statement about the nature and severity of a crisis and implications for strategic response.\n\nThe IPC was originally developed for use in Somalia by the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization’s Food Security Analysis Unit (FSAU). Several national governments and international agencies, including CARE International, European Commission Joint Research Centre (EC JRC), Food and Agricultural Organization of the United Nations (FAO), USAID/FEWS NET, Oxfam GB, Save the Children UK/US, and United Nations World Food Programme (WFP), have been working together to adapt it to other food security contexts.\n\nThe following table includes a summary of the IPC scale:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26075893", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26075893", "title": "Integrated reporting", "text": "Integrated reporting\n\nIntegrated reporting (IR) in corporate communication is a \"process that results in communication, most visibly a periodic “integrated report”, about value creation over time. An integrated report is a concise communication about how an organization’s strategy, governance, performance and prospects lead to the creation of value over the short, medium and long term.\"\n\nIt means the integrated representation of a company’s performance in terms of both financial and other value relevant information. Integrated Reporting provides greater context for performance data, clarifies how value relevant information fits into operations or a business, and may help make company decision making more long-term. While the communications that result from IR will be of benefit to a range of stakeholders, they are principally aimed at providers of financial capital allocation decisions.\n\nIR helps to complete financial and sustainability reports. A framework has been published, but some questions remain in order to know how to apply it. Do we need a new report ? Do we need one report ? Will this report be useful for investors, and for other stakeholders? Other questions could have been raised, such as who is really working for an integrated reporting, and who has interests in it.\n\nCapitalism relies on the efficient allocation of capital to deliver returns to investors over the short, medium and long term.\nIt is the job of companies to manage the financial capital that investors provide and also to create and preserve the value generated from other forms of non-financial data such as people, trademarks/copyrights and natural resources or nature, the basis of all life. The western model of capitalism has been questioned following the onset of the banking crisis in 2007 because of its apparent dependence on short term financial factors over other forms of capital and longer time scales. Corporate reporting no longer reflects the needs of the 21st century, resilient capitalism needs financial stability and sustainability in its exchange with nature in order to succeed – and Integrated Reporting is intended to underpin both of these problems through communicating to providers of financial capital the information that they need. Therefore a report of financial data is no longer sufficient, but has to be extended with information (in exact physical categories) about our exchanges with nature (1)</ref> International Federation of Accountants (IFAC), and the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), to establish the International Integrated Reporting Committee (IIRC), a body to oversee the creation of a globally accepted Integrated Reporting framework. In November 2011, the Committee was renamed the International Integrated Reporting Council.\n\nThe International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC), of which Mervyn King is chair, was convened in order to aid businesses and investors as they begin to adopt Integrated Reporting. Launched in 2010 by HRH The Prince of Wales with international partners. The IIRC was formerly known as the International Integrated Reporting Committee, being renamed in 2011. The Prince's Accounting for Sustainability Project (A4S) acted as the Secretariat for the IIRC until January 2012.\n\nThe IIRC calls itself 'a global coalition of regulators, investors, companies, standard setters, the accounting profession and NGOs. Together, this coalition shares the view that communication about businesses' value creation should be the next step in the evolution of corporate reporting'. It states its mission is to create the globally accepted International IR Framework that elicits from organizations material information about their strategy, governance, performance and prospects in a clear, concise and comparable format. The Framework is intended to underpin and accelerate the evolution of corporate reporting, reflecting developments in financial governance, management commentary and sustainability reporting.\n\nThe IIRC produced a 'Discussion Paper' in 2011 from which the overwhelming feedback demonstrated overwhelming support for Integrated Reporting and endorsed the development of a global Framework. It also concluded that the primary audience of integrated reports is investors in order to aid their allocation of financial capital.\n\nThe IIRC began a Pilot Programme in 2011 in order to underpin the development of the International Integrated Reporting Framework. The group of organizations participating in the Pilot Programme have the opportunity to contribute to the development of the Framework. Paul Druckman, CEO IIRC, said \"We call the Pilot Programme our \"innovation hub\" - made up of people who want to push the boundaries just a little bit further, to challenge, or at least question orthodox thinking, and to acknowledge the importance of reporting to the way our organizations think and behave\".\n\nThere are over 90 businesses in the Pilot Programme Business Network include Unilever, Coca-Cola, Microsoft, China Light and Power, Hyundai, Diesel & Motor Enigineering PLC (Dimo-Sri Lanka) and HSBC.\n\nThe IIRC, in collaboration with UNPRI set up an Investor Network as part of its Pilot Programme. It is made up of over 30 investor organizations in order to help shape the Framework by providing an investor's perspective on the shortfalls in current corporate reporting.\n\nThe IIRC was created with the remit of developing the globally accepted International IR Framework that elicits from organizations material information about their strategy, governance, performance and prospects in a clear, concise and comparable format. The Framework will underpin and accelerate the evolution of corporate reporting, reflecting developments in financial, governance, management commentary and sustainability reporting. The benefits of the Framework are purported to be the enabling of informed decision-making that leads to efficient capital allocation and the creation and preservation of value.\n\nThe Framework is ultimately intended as a guidance for all businesses producing integrated reports.\n\nCorporate reporting on financial and non-financial information in a single document has grown as companies such as BlackSun have produced research that suggests that producing integrated reports will have a strong correlation to the resilience and ability of a business to create value in the short, medium and long term. For many years businesses have been producing both Annual Reports and separate sustainability reports. However, increasingly often businesses are starting to produce integrated reports. On 1 March 2010 the Johannesburg Stock Exchange (JSE) adopted the King III principles as part of its listing requirements, which require listed companies to apply King III or explain which recommendations have not been applied and publicly provide reasons therefore. King III recommends Integrated Reporting and hence the requirements for listed companies to issue integrated reports.\n\nIn the King III Report (otherwise known as King Code of Governance for South Africa 2009), Integrated Reporting is referred to in this manner: \"\"A key challenge for leadership is to make sustainability issues mainstream. Strategy, risk, performance and sustainability have become inseparable; hence the phrase ‘integrated reporting’ which is used throughout this Report\".\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44485627", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44485627", "title": "Land reform in ancient Egypt", "text": "Land reform in ancient Egypt\n\nLand ownership in ancient Egypt cycled between private, monarch and feudal. A strong king could take advantage of harsh situations such as famine, buy lands from private owners and make them a property of the crown. A weaker king would have to buy services from strong lords by giving them gifts of land. Pirenne distinguishes three such cycles:\n\nTwo land reforms are documented: one involving land concentration and the other attempting land re-division.\n\nIn the middle of Cycle 2, at about 1500 BC, shortly after the beginning of the New Kingdom, a land-concentration reform was carried out by Joseph the vizier of the pharaoh:\n\nThe farmers of Egypt could not stand a long famine. Joseph suggested to help them, but in return, he bought all their lands.\n\nEgyptian farmers turned from free workers to serfs of pharaoh. They had to pay 20% of their income as a tax to pharaoh.\n\nIn the middle of Cycle 3, at about 720 BC, near the end of the New Kingdom, a land-division reform was attempted by king Bakenranef (Bocchoris). After capturing the reign in Sais, he initiated the following reforms:\n\nFeudal lords and clergy combined to overthrow Bakenranef. He was burned alive, and his reforms were undone.\n\n"}
{"id": "37963750", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37963750", "title": "Landfrieden", "text": "Landfrieden\n\nA Landfrieden or Landfriede (Latin: \"constitutio pacis\", \"pax instituta\" or \"pax jurata\") was, under medieval law of the Holy Roman Empire, a contractual waiver by rulers of specified territories of the use of (actually legitimate) force to assert their own legal claims. This especially affected the right of feuding. \n\n\"Landfrieden\" agreements formed the political basis for pursuing claims without resorting to the private use of violence. They also often regulated the jurisdiction and thus allowed the settlement of disputes through judgements based on a common set of rules. \n\nOffences or violations of the public peace were liable to severe punishment. For example, objects or buildings (such as churches, homes, mills, agricultural implements, bridges, and especially imperial roads) and people (priests, pilgrims, merchants, women, even farmers, hunters and fishermen in carrying out their work) could be placed under protection. The \"Landfrieden\" created a type of martial law, as well as special courts, the \"Landfriedensgerichte\".\n\nIn the High Middle Ages from the 11th century onwards, the \"Landfrieden\" movement strove to extend the so-called Peace and Truce of God (\"Gottesfrieden\"). The first imperial \"Landfriede\" was established by Emperor Henry IV in 1103 for a term of four years and was known as the First Imperial Peace of Mainz (\"Erster Mainzer Reichslandfriede\"). It followed the Mainz Peace and Truce of God (\"Mainzer Gottesfrieden\") which he had already proclaimed in 1085. \n\nIn 1152 Frederick Barbarossa proclaimed the Great Imperial Peace (\"Großer Reichslandfrieden\"), which extended to the whole Empire. This was an act of constitution and brought into effect a time-limited alliance of ruling princes. It was established in 1186 that a feud had to be announced in feud letter issued three days in advance. Originating from the law schools in Bologna and Pavia, the concepts of medieval Roman law (\"Corpus Iuris Civilis\") started to dominate the legal profession under Barbarossa's rule.\n\nThe most important Imperial Peace of Mainz (\"Mainzer Reichslandfrieden\"), announced by Emperor Frederick II at the Imperial Diet of 1235, was more like a legal decree and had less of the character of an alliance. Already in 1231, Frederick had issued the Constitutions of Melfi, a book of codified law and inquisitorial system applying to his Kingdom of Sicily. The Mainz \"Landfriede\", now applicable for an indefinite perod of time, was a constitutional act and became one of the basic laws that applied to the whole Empire. For the first time this document was bilingually drafted, i.e. written in both Latin and Middle High German. \n\nSubsequently, numerous regional and local \"Landfrieden\" alliances, such as city federations arose during the 13th and 14th centuries. The 1235 Peace of Mainz was superseded by the Perpetual Public Peace (\"Ewiger Landfriede\") passed by Maximilian I in 1495, which definitely outlawed any feuds and constituted a permanent \"Landfriede\" for the Holy Roman Empire, including the establishment of the \"Reichskammergericht\" (Imperial Chamber Court).\n\nUp to today a breach of the \"Landfrieden\" (\"Landfriedensbruch\") by involvement in violent riots is a criminal offence according to German criminal law (§ 125 StGB) and the Austrian (§ 274 StGB) and Swiss (Art. 260 CH-StGB) equivalents. The preservation of the \"Landfrieden\" in the sense of public law and order – i.e. the ban on jungle law (\"Faustrecht\") and frontier justice (\"Selbstjustiz\") – by giving the state authorities a monopoly on violence, is the basis of all modern legal codes.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52596067", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52596067", "title": "Ministry of Economic Development and Investments", "text": "Ministry of Economic Development and Investments\n\nThe Ministry of Economic Development and Investments of the Republic of Armenia () is the legal successor of the State Planning Committee of the Soviet Socialist Republic of Armenia.\n\nIt was formed in 1990 after the reorganization of the State Planning Committee of the Soviet Socialist Republic of Armenia.\nOn 10 June 1997, in accordance with Armenian Presidential Decree No. 747 on \"Changes in Structure of the Government of the Republic of Armenia” the Ministry of Trade, Services and Tourism, the Ministry of Industry, and the Ministry of Economy were merged into one ministry: the Ministry of Industry and Trade of the Republic of Armenia.\nOn 16 March 2002, in accordance with Presidential Decrees No. 1063 and 1064, the Ministry of Industry and Trade was reorganized into the Ministry of Trade and Economic Development.\nOn 21 April 2008, in accordance with a Presidential Decree, the Ministry of Trade and Economic Development was renamed the Ministry of Economy of the Republic of Armenia. On 29 September 2016 the ministry was again renamed, this time to the Ministry of Economic Development and Investments of the Republic of Armenia.\nThere are 22 structural and three separate departments in the organizational structure of the Ministry of Economy. Also, four state organizations and companies operate within the Ministry.\n\n"}
{"id": "12417438", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12417438", "title": "Ministry of Economy (Poland)", "text": "Ministry of Economy (Poland)\n\nMinistry of Economy of the Republic of Poland () was a ministry dealing with economy of Republic of Poland.\n\nCreated in 1997 from reforms and mergers of other ministries, it has gone through several name changes and has recently been downsized, with issues related to work being split to Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and regional issues split to Ministry of Regional Development. In 2007 the bureau of tourism was moved to Ministry of Sport.\n\nThe last minister was Janusz Piechociński. In late 2015 it was merged into the new Ministry of Development.\n"}
{"id": "4623127", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4623127", "title": "Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy (South Korea)", "text": "Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy (South Korea)\n\nThe Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy (MOTIE) is a branch of the South Korean government. It is concerned with regulating some economic policy, especially with regard to the industrial and energy sectors. The ministry also works to encourage foreign investment in Korea. The current minister is Joo Hyung-Hwan.\nThe headquarters are located in the Sejong Regional Government Complex in Sejong City. The headquarters were formerly located in the Gwacheon Government Complex in Gwacheon, Gyeonggi Province.\n\nThe ministry began in 1948 as the Ministry of Commerce in the First Republic. In 1993 it was merged with the Ministry of Energy, established in 1977. It became the Ministry of Knowledge Economy in 2008, and the Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy in 2013.\nSubsidiary departments and organisations of the MTIE include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8119544", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8119544", "title": "Monosodium citrate", "text": "Monosodium citrate\n\nMonosodium citrate, more correctly, sodium dihydrogen citrate (Latin: \"natrium citricum acidulatum\"), is an acid salt of citric acid. Disodium citrate and trisodium citrate are also known. It can be prepared by partial neutralisation of an aqueous solution of sodium bicarbonate or carbonate with citric acid.\n\nIt is highly soluble in water and practically insoluble in ethanol. Monosodium citrate is used as an anticoagulant in donated blood.\n"}
{"id": "1570461", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1570461", "title": "Nordic Green Left Alliance", "text": "Nordic Green Left Alliance\n\nThe Nordic Green Left Alliance (NGLA) is an alliance of Nordic left-wing parties, founded in Reykjavík, Iceland, on 1 February 2004. In 2018, the intra-EU parties of the alliance joined Maintenant le Peuple.\n\nThe member organizations of NGLA are:\nMost of the member parties of NGLA have not joined the Party of the European Left (the Finnish Left Alliance being a recent exception), but NGLA participates in EL events as an observer. In the European Parliament, the MEPs of the Swedish Left Party and of the Finnish Left Alliance are part of the European United Left–Nordic Green Left parliamentary group, whilst the Danish Socialist People's Party MEP is member of the Greens-EFA group.\n"}
{"id": "462116", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=462116", "title": "Occupation of the Baltic states", "text": "Occupation of the Baltic states\n\nThe occupation of the Baltic states involved the military occupation of the three Baltic states—Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania—by the Soviet Union under the auspices of the 1939 Molotov–Ribbentrop Pact in June 1940. They were then incorporated into the Soviet Union as constituent republics in August 1940, though most Western powers never recognised their incorporation. On 22 June 1941, Nazi Germany attacked the Soviet Union and within weeks occupied the Baltic territories. In July 1941, the Third Reich incorporated the Baltic territory into its \"Reichskommissariat Ostland\". As a result of the Red Army's Baltic Offensive of 1944, the Soviet Union recaptured most of the Baltic states and trapped the remaining German forces in the Courland pocket until their formal surrender in May 1945. The Soviet \"annexation occupation\" () or occupation \"sui generis\" of the Baltic states lasted until August 1991, when the three countries regained their independence.\n\nThe Baltic states themselves, the United States and its courts of law, the European Parliament, the European Court of Human Rights and the United Nations Human Rights Council have all stated that these three countries were invaded, occupied and illegally incorporated into the Soviet Union under provisions of the 1939 Molotov–Ribbentrop Pact. There followed occupation by Nazi Germany from 1941 to 1944 and then again occupation by the Soviet Union from 1944 to 1991. This policy of non-recognition has given rise to the principle of legal continuity of the Baltic states, which holds that \"de jure\", or as a matter of law, the Baltic states had remained independent states under illegal occupation throughout the period from 1940 to 1991.\n\nIn its reassessment of Soviet history that began during perestroika in 1989, the Soviet Union condemned the 1939 secret protocol between Germany and itself. However, the Soviet Union never formally acknowledged its presence in the Baltics as an occupation or that it annexed these states and considered the Estonian, Latvian and Lithuanian Soviet Socialist Republics as three of its constituent republics. On the other hand, the Russian Soviet Federative Socialist Republic recognized in 1991 the events of 1940 as \"annexation\". Nationalist-patriotic Russian historiography and school textbooks continue to maintain that the Baltic states voluntarily joined the Soviet Union after their peoples all carried out socialist revolutions independent of Soviet influence. The post-Soviet government of the Russian Federation and its state officials insist that incorporation of the Baltic states was in accordance with international law and gained \"de jure\" recognition by the agreements made in the February 1945 Yalta and the July–August 1945 Potsdam conferences and by the 1975 Helsinki Accords, which declared the inviolability of existing frontiers). However, Russia agreed to Europe's demand to \"assist persons deported from the occupied Baltic states\" upon joining the Council of Europe in 1996. Additionally, when the Russian Soviet Federative Socialist Republic signed a separate treaty with Lithuania in 1991, it acknowledged that the 1940 annexation as a violation of Lithuanian sovereignty and recognised the \"de jure\" continuity of the Lithuanian state.\n\nMost Western governments maintained that Baltic sovereignty had not been legitimately overridden and thus continued to recognise the Baltic states as sovereign political entities represented by the legations—appointed by the pre-1940 Baltic states—which functioned in Washington and elsewhere. The Baltic states recovered \"de facto\" independence in 1991 during the dissolution of the Soviet Union. Russia started to withdraw its troops from the Baltics (starting from Lithuania) in August 1993. The full withdrawal of troops deployed by Moscow ended in August 1994. Russia officially ended its military presence in the Baltics in August 1998 by decommissioning the Skrunda-1 radar station in Latvia. The dismantled installations were repatriated to Russia and the site returned to Latvian control, with the last Russian soldier leaving Baltic soil in October 1999.\n\nEarly in the morning of August 24, 1939, the Soviet Union and Germany signed a ten-year non-aggression pact, called the Molotov–Ribbentrop pact. The pact contained a secret protocol by which the states of Northern and Eastern Europe were divided into German and Soviet \"spheres of influence\". In the north, Finland, Estonia and Latvia were assigned to the Soviet sphere. Poland was to be partitioned in the event of its \"political rearrangement\"—the areas east of the Narev, Vistula and San Rivers going to the Soviet Union while Germany would occupy the west. Lithuania, adjacent to East Prussia, would be in the German sphere of influence, although a second secret protocol agreed in September 1939 assigned the majority of Lithuanian territory to the Soviet Union. According to this secret protocol, Lithuania would regain its historical capital Vilnius, previously subjugated during the inter-war period by Poland.\n\nFollowing the end of Soviet invasion of Poland on 6 October, the Soviets pressured Finland and the Baltic states to conclude mutual assistance treaties. The Soviets questioned the neutrality of Estonia after the escape of an interned Polish submarine on 18 September. A week later on 24 September, the Estonian foreign minister was given an ultimatum in Moscow. The Soviets demanded the conclusion of a treaty of mutual assistance to establish military bases in Estonia. The Estonians had no choice but to accept naval, air and army bases on two Estonian islands and at the port of Paldiski. The corresponding agreement was signed on 28 September 1939. Latvia followed on 5 October 1939 and Lithuania shortly thereafter, on 10 October 1939. The agreements permitted the Soviet Union to establish military bases on the Baltic states' territory for the duration of the European war and to station 25,000 Soviet soldiers in Estonia, 30,000 in Latvia and 20,000 in Lithuania from October 1939.\n\nIn September and October 1939, the Soviet government compelled the Baltic states to conclude mutual assistance pacts which gave it the right to establish Soviet military bases. In May 1940, the Soviets turned to the idea of direct military intervention, but still intended to rule through puppet regimes. Their model was the Finnish Democratic Republic, a puppet regime set up by the Soviets on the first day of the Winter War. The Soviets organised a press campaign against the allegedly pro-Allied sympathies of the Baltic governments. In May 1940, the Germans invaded France, which was overrun and occupied a month later. In late May and early June 1940, the Baltic states were accused of military collaboration against the Soviet Union by holding meetings the previous winter. On 15 June 1940, the Lithuanian government had no choice but to agree to the Soviet ultimatum and permit the entry of an unspecified number of Soviet troops. President Antanas Smetona proposed armed resistance to the Soviets but the government refused, proposing their own candidate to lead the regime. However, the Soviets refused this offer and sent Vladimir Dekanozov to take charge of affairs while the Red Army occupied the state.\n\nOn 16 June 1940, Latvia and Estonia also received ultimata. The Red Army occupied the two remaining Baltic states shortly thereafter. The Soviets dispatched Andrey Vyshinsky to oversee the takeover of Latvia and Andrey Zhdanov to oversee the takeover of Estonia. On 18 and 21 June 1940, new \"popular front\" governments were formed in each Baltic country, made up of Communists and fellow travelers. Under Soviet surveillance, the new governments arranged rigged elections for new \"people's assemblies.\" Voters were presented with a single list, and no opposition movements were allowed to file and to get the required turnout to 99.6% votes were forged. A month later, the new assemblies met, with their sole item of business being resolutions to join the Soviet Union. In each case, the resolutions passed by acclamation. The Supreme Soviet of the Soviet Union duly accepted the requests in August, thus giving legal sanction to the takeover. Lithuania was incorporated into the Soviet Union on 3 August, Latvia on 5 August, and Estonia on 6 August 1940. The deposed presidents of Estonia (Konstantin Päts) and Latvia (Kārlis Ulmanis) were imprisoned and deported to the USSR and died later in the Tver region and Central Asia respectively. In June 1941, the new Soviet governments carried out mass deportations of \"enemies of the people\". It is estimated that Estonia alone lost 60,000 citizens. Consequently, many Balts initially greeted the Germans as liberators when they invaded a week later.\n\nThe Soviet Union immediately started to erect border fortifications along its newly acquired western border — the so-called Molotov Line.\n\nOn 22 June 1941 the Germans invaded the Soviet Union. The Baltic states, recently Sovietized by threats, force, and fraud, generally welcomed the German armed forces when they crossed the frontiers. In Lithuania, a revolt broke out and an independent provisional government was established. As the German armies approached Riga and Tallinn, attempts to reestablish national governments were made. It was hoped that the Germans would reestablish Baltic independence. Such political hopes soon evaporated and Baltic cooperation became less forthright or ceased altogether. The Germans aimed to annex the Baltic territories to the Third Reich where \"suitable elements\" were to be assimilated and \"unsuitable elements\" exterminated. In actual practice, the implementation of occupation policy was more complex; for administrative convenience the Baltic states were included with Belorussia in the Reichskommissariat Ostland. The area was ruled by Hinrich Lohse who was obsessed with bureaucratic regulations. The Baltic area was the only eastern region intended to become a full province of the Third Reich.\n\nNazi racial attitudes to the Baltic people differed between Nazi authorities. In practice, racial policies were directed not against the majority of Balts but rather against the Jews. Large numbers of Jews were living in the major cities, notably in Vilnius, Kaunas and Riga. The German mobile killing units slaughtered hundreds of thousands of Jews; Einsatzgruppe A, assigned to the Baltic area, was the most effective of four units. German policy forced the Jews into ghettos. In 1943 Heinrich Himmler ordered his forces to liquidate the ghettos and to transfer the survivors to concentration camps. Some Latvians and Lithuanian conscripts collaborated actively in the killing of Jews, and the Nazis managed to provoke pogroms locally, especially in Lithuania. Only about 75 percent of Estonian and 10 percent of Latvian and Lithuanian Jews survived the war. However, for the majority of Baltic people, German rule was less harsh than Soviet rule had been, and it was less brutal than German occupations elsewhere in eastern Europe. Local puppet regimes performed administrative tasks and schools were permitted to function. However, most people were denied the right to own land or businesses.\n\nThe Soviet administration had forcefully incorporated the Baltic national armies at the wake of the occupation in 1940. Most of the senior officers were arrested and many of them murdered. During the German invasion, the Soviets conducted a forced general mobilisation that took place in violation of the international law. Under the Geneva Conventions, this act of violence\nis seen as a grave breach and war crime, because the mobilised men were treated as arrestants from the very beginning. In comparison with the general mobilisation proclaimed in the Soviet Union, the age range was extended by 9 years in the Baltics; all reserve officers were also taken. The aim was to deport all men capable to fight to Russia, where they were sent to convict camps. Almost half of them perished because of the transportation conditions, slave labour, hunger, diseases, and the repressive measures of the NKVD. In addition, destruction battalions were formed under the command of the NKVD. Hence, Baltic nationals fought in both German and Soviet army ranks. There was the 201st Latvian Rifle Division. The 308th Latvian Rifle Division was awarded the Red Banner Order after the expulsion of the Germans from Riga in the autumn of 1944.\n\nAn estimated 60,000 Lithuanians were drafted into the Red Army. During 1940, on the basis of disbanded Lithuanian Army, Soviet authorities organized 29th Territorial Rifle Corps. Decrease in quality of life and service conditions, forceful indoctrination of Communist ideology, caused discontent of recently Sovietized military units. Soviet authorities responded with repressions against Lithuanian officers of the 29th Corps, arresting over 100 officers and soldiers and subsequently executing around 20 in Autumn 1940. By that time allegedly near 3,200 officers and soldiers of 29th Corps were considered \"politically unreliable\". Due to high tensions and soldiers' discontent the 26th Cavalry Regiment was disbanded. During the 1941 June deportations over 320 officers and soldiers of 29th Corps were arrested and deported to concentration camps of executed. The 29th Corps collapsed with the German invasion into Soviet Union: on June 25–26 a rebellion broke in its 184th Rifle Division. The other division of the 29th Corps, the 179th Rifle Division lost most of its soldiers during the retreat from Germans mostly to deserting of its soldiers. A total of less than 1,500 soldiers from initial strength of around 12,000 reached the area of Pskov by August 1941. By the second part of 1942, most of Lithuanians remaining in the Soviet ranks as well as male war refugees from Lithuania were organized into 16th Rifle Division during its second formation. 16th Rifle Division, despite officially called \"Lithuanian\" and mostly commanded by officers of Lithuanian origin, including Adolfas Urbšas, a former Chief of Staff of Lithuanian Army, was ethnically very mixed, with up to 1/4 of its personnel made of Jews and thus being the largest Jew formation of Soviet Army. Popular joke of those years said that 16th Division is called Lithuanian, because there are 16 Lithuanians among its ranks.\n\nThe 7000-strong 22nd Estonian Territorial Rifle Corps got heavily beaten in the battles around Porkhov during the German invasion in summer 1941, as 2000 were killed or wounded in action, and 4500 surrendered. The 25,000—30,000 strong 8th Estonian Rifle Corps lost 3/4 of its troops in the battle for Velikiye Luki in winter 1942/43. It participated in the capture of Tallinn in September 1944. About 20,000 Lithuanians, 25,000 Estonians, and 5000 Latvians died in the ranks of the Red Army and labor battalions.\n\nThe Nazi administration also conscripted Baltic nationals into the German armies. The Lithuanian Territorial Defense Force, composed of volunteers, was formed in 1944. The LTDF reached the size of about 10,000 men. Its goal was to fight the approaching Red Army, provide security and conduct anti-partisan operations within the territory, claimed by Lithuanians. After brief engagements against the Soviet and Polish partisans (Armia Krajowa), the force self-disbanded, its leaders were arrested and sent to Nazi concentration camps, and many of its members were executed by the Nazis. Latvian Legion, created in 1943, consisted of two conscripted divisions of the Waffen-SS. On July 1, 1944 the Latvian Legion had 87,550 men. Another 23,000 Latvians were serving as Wehrmacht \"auxiliaries\". Among other battles they participated in the battles in the Siege of Leningrad, in Courland Pocket, in Pomeranian Wall defences, in Velikaya River for Hill \"93,4\" and in the defence of Berlin. 20th Waffen Grenadier Division of the SS (1st Estonian) was formed in January 1944 through conscription. Consisting of 38,000 men they took part in the Battle of Narva, the Battle of Tannenberg Line, the Battle of Tartu, and Operation Aster.\n\nThere were several attempts to restore independence during the occupation. On 22 June 1941 the Lithuanians overthrew Soviet rule two days before the \"Wehrmacht\" arrived in Kaunas, where the Germans then allowed a Provisional Government to function for over a month. The Latvian Central Council was set up as an underground organisation in 1943, but it was destroyed by the \"Gestapo\" in 1945. In Estonia in 1941, Jüri Uluots proposed restoration of independence; later, by 1944, he had become a key figure in the secret National Committee. In September 1944, Uluots briefly became acting president of independent Estonia. Unlike the French and the Poles, the Baltic states had no governments in exile located in the West. Consequently, Great Britain and the United States lacked any interest in the Baltic cause while the war against Germany remained undecided. The discovery of the Katyn massacre in 1943 and callous conduct towards the Warsaw uprising in 1944 had cast shadows on relations; nevertheless, all three victors still displayed solidarity at the Yalta conference in 1945.\n\nBy 1 March 1944 the siege of Leningrad was over and Soviet troops were on the border with Estonia. The Soviets launched the Baltic Offensive, a twofold military-political operation to rout German forces, on 14 September. On 16 September the High Command of the German Army issued a plan in which Estonian forces would cover the German withdrawal. The Soviets soon reached the Estonian capital Tallinn, where the NKVD's first mission was to stop anyone escaping from the state; however, many refugees did manage to escape to the West. The NKVD also targeted the members of the National Committee of the Republic of Estonia. German and Latvian forces remained trapped in the Courland pocket until the end of the war, capitulating on 10 May 1945.\n\nAfter reoccupying the Baltic states, the Soviets implemented a program of sovietization, which was achieved through large-scale industrialisation rather than by overt attacks on culture, religion or freedom of expression. The Soviets carried out massive deportations to eliminate any resistance to collectivisation or support of partisans. Baltic partisans, such as the Forest Brothers, continued to resist Soviet rule through armed struggle for a number of years.\n\nThe Soviets had previously carried out mass deportations in 1940–41, but the deportations between 1944–52 were even greater. In March 1949 alone, the top Soviet authorities organised a mass deportation of 90,000 Baltic nationals.\n\nThe total number deported in 1944–55 has been estimated at over half a million: 124,000 in Estonia, 136,000 in Latvia and 245,000 in Lithuania.\n\nThe estimated death toll among Lithuanian deportees between 1945 and 1958 was 20,000, including 5,000 children.\n\nThe deportees were allowed to return after Nikita Khrushchev's secret speech in 1956 denouncing the excesses of Stalinism, however many did not survive their years of exile in Siberia. After the war, the Soviets outlined new borders for the Baltic republics. Lithuania gained the regions of Vilnius and Klaipėda while the Russian SFSR annexed territory from the eastern parts of Estonia (5% of prewar territory) and Latvia (2%).\n\nThe Soviets made large capital investments for energy resources and a manufacture of industrial and agricultural products. The purpose was to integrate the Baltic economies into the larger Soviet economic sphere. In all three republics, manufacturing industry was developed resulting in some of the best industrial complexes in the sphere of electronics and textile production. The rural economy suffered from the lack of investments and the collectivization. Baltic urban areas had been damaged during wartime and it took ten years to recuperate housing losses. New constructions were often of poor quality and ethnic Russian immigrants were favored in housing. Estonia and Latvia received large-scale immigration of industrial workers from other parts of the Soviet Union that changed the demographics dramatically. Lithuania also received immigration but on a smaller scale.\n\nEthnic Estonians constituted 88 percent before the war, but in 1970 the figure dropped to 60 percent. Ethnic Latvians constituted 75 percent, but the figure dropped 57 percent in 1970 and further down to 50.7 percent in 1989. In contrast, the drop in Lithuania was only 4 percent. Baltic communists had supported and participated the 1917 October Revolution in Russia. However, many of them died during the Great Purge in the 1930s. The new regimes of 1944 were established mostly by native communists who had fought in the Red Army. However, the Soviets also imported ethnic Russians to fill political, administrative and managerial posts.\n\nThe period of stagnation brought the crisis of the Soviet system. The new Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev came to power in 1985 and responded with glasnost and perestroika. They were attempts to reform the Soviet system from above to avoid revolution from below. The reforms occasioned the reawakening of nationalism in the Baltic republics. The first major demonstrations against the environment were Riga in November 1986 and the following spring in Tallinn. Small successful protests encouraged key individuals and by the end of 1988 the reform wing had gained the decisive positions in the Baltic republics. At the same time, coalitions of reformists and populist forces assembled under the Popular Fronts. The Supreme Soviet of the Estonian Soviet Socialist Republic made the Estonian language the state language again in January 1989, and similar legislation was passed in Latvia and Lithuania soon after. The Baltic republics declared their aim for sovereignty: Estonia in November 1988, Lithuania in May 1989 and Latvia in July 1989. The Baltic Way, that took place on 23 of August 1989, became the biggest manifestation of opposition to the Soviet rule.\n\nOn 11 March 1990 the Lithuanian Supreme Soviet declared Lithuania's independence. Pro-independence candidates had received an overwhelming majority in the Supreme Soviet elections held earlier that year. On 30 March 1990, the Estonian Supreme Soviet declared the Soviet Union an occupying power and announced the start of a transitional period to independence. On 4 May 1990, the Latvian Supreme Soviet made a similar declaration. The Soviet Union immediately condemned all three declarations as illegal, saying that they had to go through the process of secession outlined in the Soviet Constitution of 1977. However, the Baltic states argued that the entire occupation process violated both international law and their own law. Therefore, they argued, they were merely reasserting an independence that still existed under international law.\n\nBy mid-June the Soviets started negotiations with the Baltic republics. The Soviets had a bigger challenge elsewhere, as the Russian federal republic proclaimed sovereignty in June. Simultaneously the Baltic republics also started to negotiate directly with the Russian federal republic. After the failed negotiations the Soviets made a dramatic but failed attempt to break the deadlock and sent in military troops killing twenty and injuring hundreds of civilians in what became known as the \"Vilnius massacre\" and \"The Barricades\" in Latvia during January 1991. In August 1991, the hard-line members attempted to take control of the Soviet Union. A day after the coup on 21 August, the Estonians proclaimed full independence. The Latvian parliament made similar a declaration on the same day. The coup failed but the collapse of the Soviet Union became unavoidable. After the coup collapsed, the Soviet government recognised the independence of all three Baltic states on 6 September 1991.\n\nThe Russian Federation assumed the burden and the subsequent withdrawal of the occupation force, consisting of about 150,000 former Soviet, now Russian, troops stationed in the Baltic states. As of 1992 there were still 120,000 Russian troops there, as well as a large number of military pensioners, particularly in Estonia and Latvia.\n\nDuring the period of negotiations, Russia hoped to retain facilities such as the Liepaja naval base, the Skrunda anti-ballistic missile radar station and the Ventspils space-monitoring station in Latvia and the Paldiski submarine base in Estonia, as well as transit rights to Kaliningrad through Lithuania.\n\nContention arose when Russia threatened to keep its troops where they were. Moscow's linkage to specific legislation guaranteeing the civil rights of ethnic Russians was seen as an implied threat in the West, in the U.N. General Assembly and by Baltic leaders, who viewed it as Russian imperialism.\n\nLithuania was the first to complete the withdrawal of Russian troops—on August 31, 1993—owing in part to the Kaliningrad issue.\n\nSubsequent agreements to withdraw troops from Latvia were signed on April 30, 1994, and from Estonia on July 26, 1994. Continued linkage on the part of Russia resulted in a threat by the U.S. Senate in mid-July to halt all aid to Russia in case the forces were not withdrawn by the end of August. Final withdrawal was completed on August 31, 1994. Some Russian troops remained stationed in Estonia in Paldiski until the Russian military base was dismantled and the nuclear reactors suspended operations on September 26, 1995. Russia operated the Skrunda-1 radar station until it was decommissioned on August 31, 1998. The Russian Government then had to dismantle and remove the radar equipment; this work was completed by October 1999 when the site was returned to Latvia. The last Russian soldier left the region that month, marking a symbolic end to the Russian military presence on Baltic soil.\n\nIn the years following the reestablishment of Baltic independence, tensions have remained between indigenous Balts and Russian speaking settlers in Estonia and Latvia. While requirements for getting citizenship in the Baltic states are relatively liberal, a lack of attention to the rights of Russian-speaking and stateless individuals in the Baltic states has been noted by some experts, whereas all international organisations agree that no forms of systematic discrimination towards the Russian-speaking and often stateless population can be observed.\n\nIn 1993 Estonia was noted for having problems concerning the successful integration of some who were permanent residents at the time Estonia gained independence. According to a 2008 report of Special Rapporteur on racism to United Nations Human Rights Council the representatives of the Russian speaking communities in Estonia saw the most important form of discrimination in Estonia is not ethnic, but rather language-based (Para. 56). The rapporteur expressed several recommendations including strengthening the Chancellor of Justice, facilitating granting citizenship to persons of undefined nationality and making language policy subject of a debate to elaborate strategies better reflecting the multilingual character of society (paras. 89-92). Estonia has been criticized by the UN Committee on the Elimination of Racial Discrimination strong emphasis on Estonian language in the state Integration strategy; usage of punitive approach for promoting Estonian language; restrictions of the usage of minority language in public services; low level of minority representation in political life; persistently high number of persons with undetermined citizenship, etc.\n\nAccording to Yaël Ronen, of the Minerva Center for Human Rights at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem, illegal regimes typically take measures to change the demographic structure of the territory held by the regime, usually via two methods: the forced removal of the local population and transfer their own populations into the territory. He cites the case of the Baltic states as an example of where this phenomenon has occurred, with the deportations of 1949 combined with large waves of immigration in 1945-50 and 1961-70. When the illegal regime transitioned to a lawful regime in 1991, the status of these settlers become an issue.\n\nThe Baltic claim of continuity with the pre-war republics has been accepted by most Western powers. As a consequence of the policy of non-recognition of the Soviet seizure of these countries, combined with the resistance by the Baltic people to the Soviet regime, the uninterrupted functioning of rudimentary state organs in exile in combination with the fundamental legal principle of \"ex injuria jus non oritur\", that no legal benefit can be derived from an illegal act, the seizure of the Baltic states was judged to be illegal thus sovereign title never passed to the Soviet Union and the Baltic states continued to exist as subjects of international law.\n\nThe official position of Russia, which chose in 1991 to be the legal and direct successor of the USSR, is that Estonia, Latvia, and Lithuania joined freely of their own accord in 1940, and, with the dissolution of the USSR, these countries became newly created entities in 1991. Russia's stance is based upon the desire to avoid financial liability, the view being that acknowledging the Soviet occupation would set the stage for future compensation claims from the Baltic states.\n\nSoviet historians saw the 1940 incorporation as a voluntary entry into the USSR by the Balts. Soviet historiography inherited the Russian concept from the age of Kievan Rus carried through the Russian Empire. It promoted the interests of Russia and the USSR in the Baltic area, and it reflected the belief of most Russians that they had moral and historical rights to control and to Russianize the whole of the former empire. To Soviet historians, the 1940 annexation was not only a voluntary entry but was also the natural thing to do. This concept taught that the military security of mother Russia was solidified and that nothing could argue against it.\n\nPrior to Perestroika, the Soviet Union denied the existence of the secret protocols and viewed the events of 1939-40 as follows: The Government of the Soviet Union suggested that the Governments of the Baltic countries conclude mutual assistance treaties between the countries. Pressure from working people forced the governments of the Baltic countries to accept this suggestion. The Pacts of Mutual Assistance were then signed which allowed the USSR to station a limited number of Red Army units in the Baltic countries. Economic difficulties and dissatisfaction of the populace with the Baltic governments' policies that had sabotaged fulfilment of the Pact and the Baltic countries governments' political orientation towards Germany led to a revolutionary situation in June, 1940. To guarantee fulfilment of the Pact additional military units entered Baltic countries, welcomed by the workers who demanded the resignations of the Baltic governments. In June under the leadership of the Communist Parties political demonstrations by workers were held. The fascist governments were overthrown, and workers' governments formed. In July 1940, elections for the Baltic Parliaments were held. The \"Working People's Unions\", created by an initiative of the Communist Parties, received the majority of the votes. The Parliaments adopted the declarations of the restoration of Soviet powers in Baltic countries and proclaimed the Soviet Socialist Republics. Declarations of Estonia's, Latvia's and Lithuania's wishes to join the USSR were adopted and the Supreme Soviet of the USSR petitioned accordingly. The requests were approved by the Supreme Soviet of the USSR.\n\nThe Stalin-edited \"Falsifiers of History\", published in 1948, states regarding the need for the June 1940 invasions that \"[p]acts had been concluded with the Baltic States, but there were as yet no Soviet troops there capable of holding the defences\". It also states regarding those invasions that \"[o]nly enemies of democracy or people who had lost their senses could describe those actions of the Soviet Government as aggression.\"\n\nUpon the reassessment of the Soviet history during the Perestroika, the USSR condemned the 1939 secret protocol between Germany and itself that had led to the invasion and occupation.\n\nThere was relatively little interest in the history of the Baltic states during the Soviet era, which were generally treated as a single entity owing to the uniformity of Soviet policy in these territories. Since the fall of the Soviet Union, two general camps have evolved in Russian historiography. One, the liberal-democratic (либерально-демократическое), condemn Stalin's actions and Molotov-Ribbentrop pact and do not recognize the Baltic states as having joined the USSR voluntarily. The other, the national-patriotic (национально-патриотическое), contend the Molotov-Ribbentrop pact was necessary to the security of the Soviet Union, that the Baltics' joining the USSR was the will of the proletariat—both in line with the politics of the Soviet period, \"the 'need to ensure the security of the USSR,' 'people's revolution' and 'joining voluntarily'\"—and that supporters of Baltic independence were the operatives of western intelligence agencies seeking to topple the USSR.\n\nSoviet-Russian historian Vilnis Sīpols argues that Stalin's ultimatums of 1940 were defensive measures taken because of German threat and had no connection with the 'socialist revolutions' in the Baltic states.\n\nThe arguments that the USSR had to annex the Baltic states in order to defend the security of those countries and to avoid German invasion into the three republics can be found in the college textbook \"The Modern History of Fatherland\".\n\nSergey Chernichenko, a jurist and vice-president of the Russian Association of International Law, argues there was no declared state of war between the Baltic states and the Soviet Union in 1940, and that Soviet troops occupied the Baltic states with their agreement—nor did violation by the USSR of prior treaty provisions constitute occupation. Subsequent annexation was neither an act of aggression nor forcible and was completely legal according to international law as of 1940. Accusations of \"deportation\" of Baltic nationals by the Soviet Union is therefore baseless, as individuals cannot be deported within their own country. He characterizes the Waffen-SS as being convicted at Nuremberg as a criminal organization and their commemoration in the \"openly encouraged pro-Nazi\" (откровенно поощряются пронацистские) Baltics as heroes seeking to liberate the Baltics (from the Soviets) an act of \"nationalistic blindness\" (националистическое ослепление). With regard to the current situation in the Baltics, Chernichenko contends the \"theory of occupation\" is the official thesis used to justify the \"discrimination of Russian-speaking inhabitants\" in Estonia and Latvia and prophesies the three Baltic governments will fail in their \"attempt to rewrite history\".\n\nAccording to the revisionist historian Oleg Platonov \"from the point of view of the national interests of Russia, unification was historically just, as it returned to the composition of the state ancient Russian lands, albeit partially inhabited by other peoples.\" The Molotov-Ribbentrop pact and protocols, including the dismemberment of Poland, merely redressed the tearing away from Russia of its historical territories by \"anti-Russian revolution\" and \"foreign intervention.\"\n\nOn the other hand, Professor and Dean of the School of International Relations and Vice-Rector of Saint Petersburg State University, Konstantin K. Khudoley views the 1940 incorporation of the Baltic states as not voluntary, he considers the elections were not free and fair and the decisions of the newly elected parliaments to join the Soviet Union cannot be considered legitimate as these decisions were not approved by the upper chambers of the parliaments of the respective Baltic states. He also contends that the incorporation of the Baltic states had no military value in defence of possible German aggression as it bolstered anti-Soviet public opinion in the future allies Britain and the USA, turned the native populations against the Soviet Union and the subsequent guerrilla movement in the Baltic states after the Second World War caused domestic problems for the Soviet Union.\n\nWith the advent of Perestroika and its reassessment of Soviet history, the Supreme Soviet of the USSR in 1989 condemned the 1939 secret protocol between Germany and the Soviet Union that had led to the division of Eastern Europe and the invasion and occupation of the three Baltic countries.\n\nWhile this action did not state the Soviet presence in the Baltics was an occupation, the Russian Soviet Federated Socialist Republic and Republic of Lithuania affirmed so in a subsequent agreement in the midst of the collapse of the Soviet Union. Russia, in the preamble of its July 29, 1991, \"Treaty Between the Russian Soviet Federated Socialist Republic and the Republic of Lithuania on the Basis for Relations between States,\" declared that once the USSR had eliminated the consequences of the 1940 annexation which violated Lithuania's sovereignty, Russia-Lithuania relations would further improve.\n\nHowever, Russia's current official position directly contradicts its earlier rapprochement with Lithuania as well as its signature of membership to the Council of Europe, where it agreed to the obligations and commitments including \"iv. as regards the compensation for those persons deported from the \"occupied Baltic states\" and the descendants of deportees, as stated in Opinion No. 193 (1996), paragraph 7.xii, to settle these issues as quickly as possible...\" The Russian government and state officials maintain now that the Soviet annexation of the Baltic states was legitimate and that the Soviet Union liberated the countries from the Nazis. They assert that the Soviet troops initially entered the Baltic countries in 1940 following agreements and the consent of the Baltic governments. Their position is that the USSR was not in a state of war or engaged in combat activities on the territories of the three Baltic states, therefore, the word \"occupation\" cannot be used. \"The assertions about [the] 'occupation' by the Soviet Union and the related claims ignore all legal, historical and political realities, and are therefore utterly groundless.\"—\"Russian Foreign Ministry\".\n\nThis particular Russian viewpoint is called the \"Myth of 1939–40\" by David Mendeloff, Associate Professor of International Affairs who states that the assertion that Soviet Union neither \"occupied\" the Baltic states in 1939 nor \"annexed\" them the following year is widely held and deeply embedded in Russian historical consciousness.\n\nAfter the Baltic states proclaimed independence following the signing of the Armistice, Bolshevik Russia invaded at the end of 1918. \"Izvestia\" said in its December 25, 1918, issue: \"Estonia, Latvia, and Lithuania are directly on the road from Russia to Western Europe and therefore a hindrance to our revolutions... This separating wall has to be destroyed.\" Bolshevik Russia, however, did not gain control of the Baltic States and in 1920 concluded peace treaties with all three of them. Subsequently, at the initiative of the Soviet Union, additional non-aggression treaties were concluded with all three Baltic States:\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1568235", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1568235", "title": "Payment in lieu of taxes", "text": "Payment in lieu of taxes\n\nA payment in lieu of taxes (usually abbreviated as PILOT, or sometimes as PILT) is a payment made to compensate a government for some or all of the property tax revenue lost due to tax exempt ownership or use of real property.\n\nThe federal government of Canada makes payments in lieu of taxes to local governmental entities (including First Nations) where the federal government owns real property.\n\nIn the United States, payment in lieu of taxes can arise in several ways:\n\n\nPayments in lieu of taxes for nonprofit organizations are voluntary. However, some cities want this to change. At issue are the vast amounts of land owned by universities, hospitals, churches, and other nonprofit organizations. The tax-exempt status granted to these entities by the IRS means that property taxes that would have been paid to municipalities had this land been owned by private individuals or companies are not collected.\n\nAccording to a 2010 report by the Lincoln Institute of Land Policy, between 2000 and 2010 PILOTs were used in at least 18 states. Seventeen of those states account for 35 cities and towns with PILOTs. In addition, 82 out of a total of 351 municipalities in Massachusetts have collected PILOTs (Massachusetts Department of Revenue 2003). A map in this report also reveals that although these 18 states can be found scattered across the country, the vast majority of this activity seems to be concentrated in the northeast.\n\nFor many municipalities in the United States, property taxes are a primary source of revenue. The amount of forgone tax revenue as a result of these tax-exempt land parcels is significant. The president of the city council of Baltimore, MD, recently estimated that his city loses $120 million annually from these foregone taxes. Taxable values for properties within municipalities that are charged a tax have dropped due to the mortgage crisis, further decreasing local coffers.\n\nAt the same time, these entities enjoy the same level of service the rest of the residents of the given city or county enjoy. These services include fire, police, sewer, trash collection, etc. It is argued that asking some, or all, nonprofits to pay taxes, either voluntarily, or via statutory measures, would help offset some of these costs and ease the strain on local budgets. This would be equivalent to increasing the tax base in these areas. Many nonprofits, whose own budgets are dwindling, fear this trend.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23866743", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23866743", "title": "Peter Gowan", "text": "Peter Gowan\n\nPeter Gowan (15 January 1946, Glasgow – 12 June 2009) was a Professor of International Relations at London Metropolitan University, activist, published author and public speaker. He was a member of the editorial committee of \"New Left Review\" and was one of the founders of Labour Focus on Eastern Europe.\n\nWith his older sister and his mother he moved to Belfast in April 1946 and lived there until he was nine. He never knew his father.\n\nHe went to school at Princess Gardens in Belfast until he was seven and then to Brackenburgh House. When he was nine his mother moved to London to work and he went to prep school in Suffolk, Orwell Park, ultimately becoming head boy. He left there to go to Haileybury and Imperial Service College, in Hertfordshire when he was 13, in 1959 and from there went on to read politics and history at Southampton University.\n\nGowan was diagnosed with his fatal illness only a couple of weeks after the onset of the world financial crisis \n\nDespite knowing that his condition was terminal and his health fast-deteriorating, he not only bore it with good humour, but bravely continued to work to the limits of his capacity over the following months: his article \"Crisis in the Heartland\" for the January–February 2009 issue of \"New Left Review\" provides a succinct account of how he interpreted the origins of the financial crisis.\n\nPeter Gowan died at age 63 from the asbestos related disease, peritoneal mesothelioma on 12 June 2009.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23148675", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23148675", "title": "Pierre Anga", "text": "Pierre Anga\n\nPierre Anga (1940–1988) was a Congolese army officer and rebel leader who was an opposition figure to Congolese President Denis Sassou-Nguesso. He formed part of the Military Committee of the Congolese Labour Party which for the period between 18 March 1977 to 3 April 1977 acted in place of the Presidency after Marien Ngouabi was assassinated. Anga was arrested in 1987 for allegedly participating in a coup d'état against the President; during this arrest several soldiers were killed. Shortly after this coup attempt fighting broke out in the North of the country between forces led by Anga (a supporter of Joachim Yhombi-Opango) and Government forces. He was killed by Congolese security forces. He is reported to have died in the jungle of Ikongono.\n\n"}
{"id": "1953376", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1953376", "title": "Price support", "text": "Price support\n\nIn economics, a price support may be either a subsidy or a price control, both with the intended effect of keeping the market price of a good higher than the competitive equilibrium level.\n\nIn the case of a price control, a price support is the minimum legal price a seller may charge, typically placed above equilibrium. It is the support of certain price levels at or above market values by the government.\n\nA price support scheme can also be an agreement set in order by the government, where the government agrees to purchase the surplus of at a minimum price. For example, if a price floor were set in place for agricultural wheat commodities, the government would be forced to purchase the resulting surplus from the wheat farmers (thereby subsidizing the farmers) and store or otherwise dispose of it.\n\nIn a hypothetical market in which supply and demand are such that the equilibrium price and quantity are $5 and 500 units, respectively, and the government then institutes a price floor at $6 per unit:\n\nThe benefit to producers of the price support is equal to the gain in producer surplus (represented in blue).\n\nThe cost to consumers of the price support is equal to the loss in consumer surplus (represented in red).\n\nThe cost to the government of the price support is equal to the cost of the surplus in the market (represented in gray).\n\nHowever, since the consumers ultimately pay taxes for the government to purchase the surplus, the total cost to consumers (in the short run) of the price support is the sum of the loss in consumer surplus and the cost of the government purchasing the surplus off the market.\n\nIn other words, consumers are paying $1650 in order to benefit producers $550 so price supports are considered inefficient.\n\nThe deadweight loss is the efficiency lost by implementing the price-support system. It is the change in Total Surplus and includes the value of the government purchase, and is equal to $1100.\n\n"}
{"id": "23623959", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23623959", "title": "Robert Schuman Medal, EPP Group", "text": "Robert Schuman Medal, EPP Group\n\nRobert Schuman Medal named after Robert Schuman is awarded to several people annually by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) in the European Parliament since 1986.\n"}
{"id": "6338285", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6338285", "title": "Résistance internationaliste", "text": "Résistance internationaliste\n\nThe Initiative de résistance internationaliste (), more commonly known as Résistance internationaliste, is a terrorist organization operating in the Canadian province of Quebec. Résistance internationaliste first surfaced in December 2004. Based on communiqués believed to originate from the group, the Résistance internationaliste appears to hold anti-capitalist, environmentalist and anti-American views. The group has claimed responsibility for three attacks, all in Canada.\n\nIn 2004, shortly before U.S. President George W. Bush's visit to Canada, a Hydro-Québec electric tower along the Quebec – New England Transmission circuit in the Eastern Townships of Quebec near the Canada–US border was damaged by explosive charges detonated at its base. The CBC reported that a message, purportedly from the Résistance internationaliste and issued to \"La Presse\", \"Le Journal de Montréal\" and CKAC radio, stated that the attack had been carried out to \"denounce the 'pillaging' of Quebec's resources by the United States.\"\n\nOn Friday, August 4, 2006, a car belonging to Carol Montreuil, a spokesman for the Canadian Petroleum Products Institute, exploded in the town of Sainte-Thérèse, near Montreal. After having initially concluded that the explosion was the result of an electrical malfunction, the Sûreté du Québec provincial police force ordered an investigation by its anti-terrorism branch when a number of media outlets received an email from a source claiming to be the Résistance internationaliste. The email stated that the group had carried out the attack in protest against the actions of oil companies, in particular the alleged funding of \"an imperialist army which is committing barbarous acts\", an apparent reference to the war in Iraq. The CBC reported that the same email also contained accusations against the oil companies of consumer abuse and environmental degradation.\nOn August 18 of the same year, the Sûreté du Québec confirmed that the car was indeed firebombed, as claimed by the email.\n\nThe Résistance internationaliste has also allegedly claimed the responsibility of planting a bomb at a recruiting station of the Canadian Forces in Trois-Rivières, Quebec. At 2:37 a.m., on July 2, 2010 a call was placed to the Trois-Rivières municipal police force stating there was a bomb at the recruiting station. At 3 a.m., the bomb exploded, but no one was injured according to local newspaper Le Nouvelliste.\n"}
{"id": "28887", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28887", "title": "Scottish National Party", "text": "Scottish National Party\n\nThe Scottish National Party (SNP; , ) is a Scottish nationalist and social-democratic political party in Scotland. The SNP supports and campaigns for Scottish independence. It is the second-largest political party by membership in the United Kingdom, behind the Labour Party and ahead of the Conservative Party, is the third-largest by overall representation in the House of Commons, behind the Conservative Party and the Labour Party, and is the largest political party in Scotland, where it has the most seats in the Scottish Parliament and 35 out of the 59 Scottish seats in the House of Commons of the Parliament of the United Kingdom. The current Scottish National Party leader, Nicola Sturgeon, has served as First Minister of Scotland since November 2014. \n\nFounded in 1934 with the amalgamation of the National Party of Scotland and the Scottish Party, the party has had continuous parliamentary representation in Westminster since Winnie Ewing won the 1967 Hamilton by-election. With the establishment of the devolved Scottish Parliament in 1999, the SNP became the second-largest party, serving two terms as the opposition. The SNP gained power at the 2007 Scottish Parliament election, forming a minority government, before going on to win the 2011 Parliament election, after which it formed Holyrood's first majority government. It was reduced back to a minority government at the 2016 election.\n\nThe SNP is the largest political party in Scotland in terms of both seats in the Westminster and Holyrood parliaments, and membership; reaching 125,482 members as of August 2018, 35 MPs and over 400 local councillors. The SNP also currently has 2 MEPs in the European Parliament, who sit in The Greens/European Free Alliance (Greens/EFA) group. The SNP is a member of the European Free Alliance (EFA). The party does not have any members of the House of Lords, as it has always maintained a position of objecting to an unelected upper house.\n\nThe SNP was formed in 1934 through the merger of the National Party of Scotland and the Scottish Party, with Robert Bontine Cunninghame Graham as its first president. Professor Douglas Young, who was the leader of the Scottish National Party from 1942 to 1945 campaigned for the Scottish people to refuse conscription and his activities were popularly vilified as undermining the British war effort against the Axis powers. Young was imprisoned for refusing to be conscripted.\n\nThe SNP first won a parliamentary seat at the Motherwell by-election in 1945, but Robert McIntyre MP lost the seat at the general election three months later. They next won a seat in 1967, when Winnie Ewing was the surprise winner of a by-election in the previously safe Labour seat of Hamilton. This brought the SNP to national prominence, leading to the establishment of the Kilbrandon Commission.\n\nThe SNP hit a high point in the October 1974 general election, polling almost a third of all votes in Scotland and returning 11 MPs to Westminster. This success was not surpassed until the 2015 general election. However, the party experienced a large drop in its support at the 1979 General election, followed by a further drop at the 1983 election.\n\nIn the 2007 Scottish Parliamentary general election, the SNP emerged as the largest party with 47 seats, narrowly ousting the Scottish Labour Party with 46 seats and Alex Salmond became Scottish First Minister. The Scottish Green Party supported Salmond's election as First Minister, and his subsequent appointments of ministers, in return for early tabling of the climate change bill and the SNP nominating a Green MSP to chair a parliamentary committee.\n\nIn May 2011, the SNP won an overall majority in the Scottish Parliament with 69 seats. This was a significant feat as the additional member system used for Scottish Parliament elections was specifically designed to prevent one party from winning an outright majority.\n\nBased on their 2011 majority, the SNP government held a referendum on Scottish independence in 2014. The \"No\" vote prevailed in a close-fought campaign, prompting the resignation of First Minister Alex Salmond. Forty-five percent of Scottish voters cast their ballots for independence, with the \"Yes\" side receiving less support than late polling predicted.\n\nThe SNP rebounded from the loss in the independence referendum at the UK general election in May 2015, led by Salmond's successor as first minister, Nicola Sturgeon. The party went from holding six seats in the House of Commons to 56, mostly at the expense of the Labour Party. All but three of the fifty-nine constituencies in the country elected an SNP candidate. BBC News described the historic result as a \"Scots landslide\".\n\nAt the 2016 Scottish Parliament election, the SNP lost a net total of 6 seats, losing its overall majority in the Scottish Parliament, but returning for a third consecutive term as a minority government. The party gained an additional 1.1% of the constituency vote from the 2011 election, losing 2.3% of the regional list vote. On the constituency vote, the SNP gained 11 seats from Labour, but lost the Edinburgh Southern constituency to the party. The Conservatives and Liberal Democrats each gained two constituency seats from the SNP on 2011 (Aberdeenshire West and Edinburgh Central for the Conservatives and Edinburgh Western and North East Fife for the Liberal Democrats).\n\nAt the United Kingdom general election, 2017 the SNP underperformed compared to polling expectations, losing 21 seats to bring their number of Westminster MPs down to 35. This was largely attributed by many, including former Deputy First Minister John Swinney, to their stance on holding a second Scottish independence referendum and saw a swing to the Unionist parties, with seats being picked up by the Conservatives, Labour and the Liberal Democrats and a reduction in their majorities in the other seats. Stephen Gethins, MP for North East Fife, came out of this election with a majority of just 2 to the Liberal Democrat candidate. High-profile losses included SNP Commons leader Angus Robertson in Moray and former party leader and First Minister Alex Salmond in Gordon. However, the SNP still currently hold the majority of the country's Westminster parliamentary seats, with a majority of 11.\n\nThe primary level of organisation in the SNP are the local Branches. All of the Branches within each Scottish Parliament constituency form a Constituency Association, which coordinates the work of the Branches within the constituency, coordinates the activities of the party in the constituency, and acts as a point of liaison between an MSP or MP and the party. Constituency Associations are composed of delegates from all of the Branches within the constituency.\n\nThe annual National Conference is the supreme governing body of the SNP, and is responsible for determining party policy and electing the National Executive Committee. The National Conference is composed of:\n\nThe National Council serves as the SNP's governing body between National Conferences, and its decisions are binding, unless rescinded or modified by the National Conference. There are also regular meetings of the National Assembly, which provides a forum for detailed discussion of party policy by party members.\n\nThe party has an active youth wing, the Young Scots for Independence, as well as a student wing, the Federation of Student Nationalists. There is also an SNP Trade Union Group. There is an independently-owned monthly newspaper, \"The Scots Independent\", which is highly supportive of the party.\n\nThe SNP's leadership is vested in its National Executive Committee (NEC), which is made up of the party's elected office bearers and six elected members (voted for at conference). The SNP parliamentarians (Scottish, Westminster and European) and councillors have representation on the NEC, as do the Trade Union Group, the youth wing and the student wing.\n\n\nSince 18 September 2014 (the day of the Scottish independence referendum), party membership has more than quadrupled (from 25,642), surpassing the Liberal Democrats and Conservatives to become the second-largest political party in the United Kingdom in terms of membership. As of August 2018, the Party has 125,482 members.\n\nThe SNP retains close links with Plaid Cymru, its counterpart in Wales. MPs from both parties co-operate closely with each other and work as a single parliamentary group within the House of Commons. The SNP and Plaid Cymru were involved in joint campaigning during the 2005 General Election campaign. Both the SNP and Plaid Cymru, along with Mebyon Kernow from Cornwall, are members of the European Free Alliance (EFA), a European political party comprising regionalist political parties. The EFA co-operates with the larger European Green Party to form The Greens–European Free Alliance (Greens/EFA) group in the European Parliament.\n\nPrior to its affiliation with The Greens–European Free Alliance, the SNP had previously been allied with the European Progressive Democrats (1979–1984), Rainbow Group (1989–1994) and European Radical Alliance (1994–1999).\n\nThe SNP's policy base is mostly in the mainstream Western European social democratic tradition. Among its policies are commitments to same-sex marriage, reducing the voting age to sixteen years, unilateral nuclear disarmament, progressive personal taxation, the eradication of poverty, the building of affordable social housing, government-subsidised higher education, opposition to the building of new nuclear power plants, investment in renewable energy, the abolition of Air Passenger Duty, and a pay increase for nurses.\n\nThe Scottish National Party did not have a clear ideological position until the 1970s, when it sought to explicitly present itself as a social democratic party in terms of party policy and publicity. During the period from its foundation until the 1960s; the SNP was essentially a moderate centrist party. Debate within the party focused more on the SNP being distinct as an all-Scotland national movement, with it being neither of the left or the right, but constituting a new politics that sought to put Scotland first.\n\nThe SNP was formed through the merger of the centre-left National Party of Scotland (NPS) and the centre-right Scottish Party. The SNP's founders were united over self-determination in principle, though not its exact nature, or the best strategic means to achieve self-government. From the mid-1940s onwards, SNP policy was radical and redistributionist in relation to land and in favour of ‘the diffusion of economic power’, including the decentralisation of industries such as coal to include the involvement of local authorities and regional planning bodies to control industrial structure and development. Party policies supported the economic and social policy status quo of the post-war welfare state.\n\nBy the 1960s, the SNP was starting to become defined ideologically, with a social democratic tradition emerging as the party grew in urban, industrial Scotland, and its membership experienced an influx of social democrats from the Labour Party, the trade unions and the Campaign for Nuclear Disarmament. The emergence of Billy Wolfe as a leading figure in the SNP also contributed to the leftwards shift. By this period, the Labour Party were also the dominant party in Scotland, in terms of electoral support and representation. Targeting Labour through emphasising left-of-centre policies and values was therefore electorally logical for the SNP, as well as tying in with the ideological preferences of many new party members. In 1961, the SNP conference expressed the party's opposition to the siting of the US Polaris submarine base at the Holy Loch. This policy was followed in 1963 by a motion opposed to nuclear weapons: a policy that has remained in place ever since. The 1964 policy document, \"SNP & You\", contained a clear centre-left policy platform, including commitments to full employment, government intervention in fuel, power and transport, a state bank to guide economic development, encouragement of cooperatives and credit unions, extensive building of council houses (social housing) by central and local government, pensions adjusted to cost of living, a minimum wage and an improved national health service.\n\nThe 1960s also saw the beginnings of the SNP's efforts to establish an industrial organisation and mobilise amongst trade unionists in Scotland, with the establishment of the SNP Trade Union Group, and identifying the SNP with industrial campaigns, such as the Upper-Clyde Shipbuilders Work-in and the attempt of the workers at the Scottish \"Daily Express\" to run as a co-operative. For the party manifestos for the two 1974 general elections, the SNP finally self-identified as a social democratic party, and proposed a range of social democratic policies. There was also an unsuccessful proposal at the 1975 party conference to rename the party as the \"Scottish National Party (Social Democrats)\".\n\nThere were further ideological and internal struggles after 1979, with the 79 Group attempting to move the SNP further to the left, away from being what could be described a \"social-democratic\" party, to an expressly \"socialist\" party. Members of the 79 Group - including future party leader and First Minister Alex Salmond - were expelled from the party. This produced a response in the shape of the Campaign for Nationalism in Scotland from those who wanted the SNP to remain a \"broad church\", apart from arguments of left vs. right. The 1980s saw the SNP further define itself as a party of the political left, such as campaigning against the introduction of the poll tax in Scotland in 1989; one year before the tax was imposed on the rest of the UK.\n\nIdeological tensions inside the SNP are further complicated by arguments between the so-called SNP gradualists and SNP fundamentalists. In essence, gradualists seek to advance Scotland to independence through further devolution, in a \"step-by-step\" strategy. They tend to be in the moderate left grouping, though much of the 79 Group was gradualist in approach. However, this 79 Group gradualism was as much a reaction against the fundamentalists of the day, many of whom believed the SNP should not take a clear left or right position.\n\nThe SNP is against the renewal of Trident and wants to continue providing free university education in Scotland.\n\nThe SNP is also a pro-European party, which would like to see an independent Scotland as a member of the European Union.\n\nIt has been noted that the party contains a broader spectrum of opinion regarding economic issues than most political parties in the UK due to its status as \"the only viable vehicle for Scottish independence\", with the party's parliamentary group at Westminster consisting of socialists such as Tommy Sheppard and Mhairi Black as well as supporters of tax cuts like Stewart Hosie and former Conservative Tasmina Ahmed-Sheikh.\n\nAt the 2017 SNP Conference, on 10 October, Nicola Sturgeon made several commitments, including:\n\nSturgeon has also condemned the EU for failing to act to protect the rights of EU citizens in Catalonia, following the use of violence on the Catalan public by Spanish police while attempting to prevent the 2017 Catalan independence referendum, and condemned the later arrests of pro-independence Catalan ministers by the Spanish Government.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe SNP had 431 councillors in Local Government elected from the Scottish local elections, 2017.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39421128", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39421128", "title": "Scottish religion in the seventeenth century", "text": "Scottish religion in the seventeenth century\n\nScottish religion in the seventeenth century includes all forms of religious organisation and belief in the Kingdom of Scotland in the seventeenth century.\n\nThe Protestant Reformation in Scotland created a national Church of Scotland or kirk predominantly Calvinist in doctrine and Presbyterian in structure. While James VI was a Calvinist, he favoured the use of bishops or Episcopalian governance as a means of control. When he became King of England in 1603, a unified Church of Scotland and England was the first step in his vision of a centralised, Unionist state.\n\nIn Scotland, all sides generally agreed the institution of monarchy itself was divinely ordered but differed on who held authority in clerical affairs. For Royalists, ultimate authority over the kirk lay with the King, for their opponents, it was the General Assembly; this divergence was at the heart of the political and religious struggles of the 17th century.\n\nBy the 1630s, some 90-95% of Scots belonged to the kirk, making it a nationalist symbol as well as a religious one. Although both were nominally Episcopalian, even Scottish bishops viewed many Church of England practices as little better than Catholicism. This meant that when Charles I tried to impose shared canon laws and a new liturgy, the result was the National Covenant pledging to resist these changes. In the 1638-1639 Bishop's Wars, Charles was defeated by the Scottish Covenanters who expelled bishops from the kirk and became the ruling body in Scotland. However, the Covenanters themselves were split into factions and these divisions became increasingly bitter as each tried to expel the other.\n\nAttempts to consolidate their victory led to Scotland's involvement in the 1639-1651 Wars of the Three Kingdoms and after defeat in the Anglo-Scots War of 1649-1651, incorporation into the English Commonwealth. The 1660 Restoration reimposed bishops on the kirk; many of the clergy refused to accept this and held services outside the established church in conventicles, often attracting thousands of worshippers. The government alternated between accommodation and persecution; in response to large scale risings in 1666 and 1679, a more intense phase of persecution began in the early 1680s in what became known as \"the Killing Time.\"\n\nThe accession of the openly Catholic James VII in 1685 caused increasing unease among Protestants, leading in late 1688 to the Glorious Revolution in Scotland. In March 1689, James' daughter Mary and her Dutch Calvinist husband William of Orange were accepted as monarchs. The 1690 Settlement once again removed bishops from the kirk and those who refused to swear allegiance to the new regime although William, who was generally more tolerant than the General Assembly, later passed a number of acts restoring clergy excluded after the Revolution.\n\nProtestantism was focused on the Bible and family worship was strongly encouraged. The kirk sessions applied personal and moral discipline. They discouraged group celebrations. Sessions had an administrative burden in the system of poor relief, the administration of the parish school system. They also took over the pursuit of witchcraft cases. The most intense hunt was in 1661–62, but improving economic conditions and increasing scepticism led the practice to peter out towards the end of the century. The numbers of Roman Catholics and the organisation of the Church probably deteriorated, but began to revive with the appointment of a Vicar Apostolic over the mission in 1694.\n\nDuring the sixteenth century, Scotland underwent a Protestant Reformation that created a predominantly Calvinist national kirk, which was strongly Presbyterian in outlook; the Reformation severely reduced the powers of bishops, but did not abolish them. In the earlier part of the century, the teachings of first Martin Luther and then John Calvin began to influence Scotland, particularly through Scottish scholars who had visited continental and English universities and who had often trained in the Catholic priesthood. The influence of the English was also more direct, as they supplied books and distributed Bibles and Protestant literature in the Lowlands when they invaded in 1547. Particularly important was the work of the Lutheran Scot Patrick Hamilton. His execution with other Protestant preachers in 1528, and of the Zwingli-influenced George Wishart in 1546, who was burnt at the stake in St. Andrews on the orders of Cardinal Beaton, did nothing to stem the growth of these ideas. Wishart's supporters, who included a number of Fife lairds, assassinated Beaton soon after and seized St. Andrews Castle, which they held for a year before they were defeated with the help of French forces. The survivors, including chaplain John Knox, were condemned to be galley slaves, helping to create resentment of the French and martyrs for the Protestant cause.\n\nLimited toleration and the influence of exiled Scots and Protestants in other countries, led to the expansion of Protestantism, with a group of lairds declaring themselves Lords of the Congregation in 1557 and representing their interests politically. The collapse of the French alliance and English intervention in 1560 meant that a relatively small, but highly influential, group of Protestants were in a position to impose reform on the Scottish church. A confession of faith, rejecting papal jurisdiction and the mass, was adopted by Parliament in 1560, while the young Mary, Queen of Scots was still in France. Knox, having escaped the galleys and spent time in Geneva, where he became a follower of Calvin, emerged as the most significant figure. The Calvinism of the reformers led by Knox resulted in a settlement that adopted a Presbyterian system and rejected most of the elaborate trappings of the Medieval church. This gave considerable power within the new kirk to local lairds, who often had control over the appointment of the clergy, and resulting in widespread, but generally orderly, iconoclasm. At this point the majority of the population was probably still Catholic in persuasion and the kirk would find it difficult to penetrate the Highlands and Islands, but began a gradual process of conversion and consolidation that, compared with reformations elsewhere, was conducted with relatively little persecution.\n\nThe personal reign of the Catholic Mary, Queen of Scots (1561–67) eventually ended in civil war, deposition, imprisonment and execution in England. Her infant son James VI was crowned King of Scots in 1567. He was brought up as a Protestant, while the country was run by a series of regents. After he asserted his personal rule from 1583 he favoured doctrinal Calvinism, but also episcopacy.\n\nJames claimed his authority as monarch and head of the Church came directly from God, the so-called theory of Divine Right, and was not subject to 'interference' by Parliament or church leaders. When he also became King of England in 1603, a unified Church of Scotland and England governed by bishops became the first step in his vision of a centralised, Unionist state. However, while both were nominally Episcopalian, the two were very different in governance and doctrine; Scottish bishops were doctrinal Calvinists who viewed many Church of England practices as little better than Catholicism.\n\nCalvinists believed a 'well-ordered' monarchy was part of God's plan; unlike England, the vast majority of Scots in the 17th century agreed monarchy was divinely ordered but disagreed on who held ultimate authority in clerical affairs. The Covenanter view was best summarised by Andrew Melville, who reportedly told James in 1598; 'Thair is twa Kings and twa Kingdomes in Scotland... Chryst Jesus the King and this Kingdome the Kirk, whose subject King James the Saxt is.' Royalists tended to be 'traditionalists' in religion and politics but there were many other factors, including nationalist allegiance to the kirk and individual motives were very complex.\n\nIn 1618, the General Assembly reluctantly approved the Five Articles of Perth; these included forms retained in England but largely abolished in Scotland and were widely resented. When Charles I succeeded James, unfamiliarity with Scotland made him even more reliant on the bishops, especially the Archbishop of St Andrews and prone to sudden decisions. The 1625 Act of Revocation cancelling all grants of land made by the Crown since 1540 was done without consultation and alienated large parts of the Scottish nobility and clergy.\n\nAlthough Catholicism was confined to parts of the aristocracy and Gaelic-speaking areas in the Highlands and Islands, fear of 'Popery' remained widespread. Many Scots studied at one of the French Huguenot universities, such as Montauban; by the 1620s, the reconciliation between France Catholics and Protestants that had ended the 1562-1598 French Wars of Religion seemed increasingly threatened and led to a series of Huguenot rebellions. Scots also fought in or were affected by the Thirty Years' War, a religious conflict that caused an estimated 8 million deaths and is still remembered in modern Germany as the 'Great War.' These concerns were reinforced by Charles marrying a French Catholic, Henrietta Maria, employing senior Catholic advisors like the Earl of Portland and accepting the first Papal envoy since the Reformation.\n\nAgainst this background, in 1636 Charles imposed a new Book of Canons that replaced John Knox's Book of Discipline and excommunicated anyone who denied the King's supremacy in church matters. When followed in 1637 by a Book of Common Prayer, the result was anger and widespread rioting, said to have been set off with the throwing of a stool by Jenny Geddes during a service in St Giles Cathedral. \nThe entire Reformation settlement and the Kirk itself were seen as threatened, prompting representatives from all sections of society to draw up a National Covenant on 28 February 1638, objecting to liturgical 'innovations.' Support for the Covenant was widespread except in Aberdeen and Banff, the heartland of Episcopalian resistance for the next 60 years. The Marquess of Argyll and six members of Charles' Privy Council backed the Covenant and in December the General Assembly expelled the bishops and established the Kirk on a full Presbyterian basis. Charles now decided to use military force to re-assert his authority.\n\nIn the Bishop's Wars, the Covenanters defeated Royalist forces in Aberdeenshire in 1639, then an English army led by Charles in 1640, leaving them in control of Scotland. Lack of money forced Charles to recall the English Parliament, which had been suspended since 1629 and ultimately resulted in the outbreak of the First English Civil War in 1642. The Scots remained neutral at first but sent troops to Ulster to support their co-religionists in the Irish Rebellion; the bitterness of this conflict radicalised views in Scotland and Ireland.\n\nThe Covenanter faction led by Argyll saw religious union with England as the best way to preserve a Presbyterian Kirk and in October 1643, the Solemn League and Covenant agreed a Presbyterian Union in return for Scottish military support. Royalists and moderates in both Scotland and England opposed this on religious and nationalist grounds, as did the religious Independents like Oliver Cromwell who were against any state-ordered church. The Covenanters and their English Presbyterian allies viewed the Independents who dominated the New Model Army as a bigger threat than the Royalists and when Charles surrendered in 1646, they began negotiations to restore him to the English throne.\n\nIn December 1647, Charles agreed to impose Presbyterianism in England for three years and suppress the Independents but his refusal to take the Covenant himself split the Covenanters into Engagers and Kirk Party fundamentalists or Whiggamores. Defeat in the Second English Civil War resulted in the execution of Charles in January 1649 and the Kirk Party taking control of the General Assembly. In February 1649, the Scots proclaimed Charles II King of Scotland and Great Britain; under the terms of the Treaty of Breda, the Kirk Party agreed to restore Charles to the English throne and in return he accepted the Covenant. Defeats at Dunbar and Worcester resulted with Scotland being incorporated into the Commonwealth of England, Scotland and Ireland in 1652.\n\nAfter defeat in 1651, the kirk split into two factions. Over two thirds of the ministry supported the Resolution of December 1650 re-admitting Royalists and Engagers and were known as 'Resolutioners.' 'Protestors' were largely former Kirk Party fundamentalists or Whiggamores who blamed defeat on compromise with 'malignants.' Differences between the two were both religious and political, including church government, religious toleration and the role of law in a godly society.\n\nFollowing the events of 1648-51, Cromwell decided the only way forward was to eliminate the power of the Scottish landed elite and the kirk. The Terms of Incorporation published on 12 February 1652 made a new Council of Scotland responsible for regulating church affairs and allowed freedom of worship for all Protestant sects. Since Presbyterianism was no longer the state religion, kirk sessions and synods functioned as before but its edicts were not enforced by civil penalties.\n\nFor religious and political reasons, Presbyterians were hostile to sects like the Congregationalists or Quakers because they advocated separation of church and state. Apart from a small number of Protestors known as Separatists, the vast majority of the kirk could not accept these changes and Scotland was incorporated into the Commonwealth without further consultation on 21 April 1652.\n\nContests for control of individual presbyteries made the split increasingly bitter and in July 1653 each faction held its own General Assembly in Edinburgh. The English military commander in Scotland Robert Lilburne used the excuse of Resolutioner church services praying for the success of Glencairn's insurrection to dissolve both sessions. No further Assemblies were held until 1690, the Resolutioner majority instead meeting in informal 'Consultations' and Protestors holding field assemblies or Conventicles outside Resolutioner-controlled kirk structures.\n\nWhen the Protectorate was established in 1654, Lord Broghill the head of the Council of State for Scotland summarised his dilemma; 'the Resolutioners love Charles Stuart and hate us, while the Protesters love neither him nor us.' Neither side was willing to co-operate with the Protectorate except in Glasgow where Protestors led by Patrick Gillespie used the authorities in their contest with local Resolutioners. Since the Resolutioners controlled 750 of 900 parishes, Broghill recognised they could not be ignored; his policy was to isolate the 'extreme' elements of both factions and create a new, moderate majority.\n\nBroghill accordingly sought to encourage the kirk's internal divisions, such as having Gillespie appointed Principal of Glasgow University against the wishes of the James Guthrie and Warriston-led Protestor majority. The Protectorate authorities effectively became arbitrators between the factions, each of whom appointed representatives to argue their case in London. The repercussions affected the kirk for decades to come.\n\nWhile toleration was not formally extended to either Episcopalians or Catholics, they were largely left alone although the Quakers were the only non-conformists to establish a presence. Attempts were made to convert the largely Catholic, Gaelic-speaking Highlands and Islands to Presbyterianism, with the first Gaelic catechism published in 1653 and the first Psalm book in 1659. In general, this period was later viewed as very positive for religion; being barred from politics meant ministers spent more time with their congregations and placed an emphasis on preaching that emulated the sects. One Presbyterian noted that 'there were more souls converted to Christ in that short period of time than in any season since the Reformation.'\n\nAfter the Restoration of the Monarchy in 1660, Scotland regained control of the kirk, but the Rescissory Act 1661 restored the legal position of 1633. This removed the Covenanter reforms of 1638-1639 although another Act renewed the ability of kirk sessions, presbyteries and synods to impose civil penalties, suggesting some compromise was possible. The restoration of Episcopacy was proclaimed by the Privy Council of Scotland on 6 September 1661.\n\nJames Sharp, minister of Crail, then in London representing the Resolutioners accepted the position of Archbishop of St. Andrews. He was consecrated along with Robert Leighton as Bishop of Dunblane and soon an entire bench of bishops had been appointed. During the Parliamentary session of 1662, the kirk was restored as the national church, with the Independent sects now banned and all office-holders were required to renounce the Covenants. Ministers were forced to accept the new situation or lose their livings; about a third, or around 270 in total, abandoned their parishes rather than waiting to be forced out. Most of the vacancies occurred in the south-west of Scotland, an area particularly strong in its Covenanting sympathies. Some of the ministers also took to preaching in the open fields in conventicles, often attracting thousands of worshippers.\n\nThe government responded by alternating persecution and toleration; in 1663, a Parliamentary Act declared dissenting ministers 'seditious persons' and imposed heavy fines on those who failed to attend the parish churches of the \"King's curates\". In 1666 a group of men from Galloway captured the government's local military commander and marched on Edinburgh and were defeated at the Battle of Rullion Green. Around 50 prisoners were taken, while a number of others were arrested; 33 were executed and the rest transported to Barbados.\n\nThe Rising led to the replacement of the Duke of Rothes as King's Commissioner by John Maitland, 1st Duke of Lauderdale who followed a more conciliatory policy. Letters of Indulgence were issued in 1669, 1672 and 1679, allowing evicted ministers to return to their parishes, if they agreed to avoid politics. A number returned but over 150 refused the offer, while many Episcopalians were alienated by the compromise.\n\nPre-1660, Glasgow had been a stronghold of the Protestor faction; in 1670, Robert Leighton was appointed Archbishop of Glasgow in an attempt to bring dissenters back into the kirk. He failed to make progress; this was not simply due to the Protestor resistance but also that of Episcopalians, deriving from the presbytery struggles of the 1650s. This meant a return to persecution; preaching at a conventicle was made punishable by death, while attendance attracted severe sanctions. In 1674, heritors and masters were made responsible for the 'good behaviour' of their tenants and servants; from 1677, this meant posting bonds for those living on their land. In 1678, 3,000 Lowland militia and 6,000 Highlanders, known as the \"Highland Host\", were billeted in the Covenanting shires, especially those in the South-West, as a form of punishment.\n\nIn 1679, a group of Covenanters killed Archbishop Sharp. The incident led to a rising that grew to 5,000 men. They were defeated by forces under James, Duke of Monmouth, the King's illegitimate son, at the Battle of Bothwell Bridge. Two ministers were executed and 250 followers shipped to Barbados, 200 drowning when their ship went down off Orkney. The rebellion eventually led to the fall of Lauderdale, who was replaced by the King's brother, the openly Catholic James, known in Scotland as the Duke of Albany. The dissenters, led by Donald Cargill and Richard Cameron called themselves the Society People, but would be become known after their leader as the Cameronians. Reduced in number, hiding out in the moors, they became increasingly radical. On 22 June 1680, the Sanquhar Declaration was posted in Sanquhar, renouncing Charles II as king. Cameron was killed the next month. Cargill excommunicated the King, Duke of Albany and other royalists at the Torwood Conventicle and his followers now separated themselves from all other Presbyterian ministers. Cargill was captured and executed in May 1681.\n\nThe government passed a Test Act, forcing every holder of public office to take an oath of non-resistance. Eight Episcopal clergy and James Dalrymple, Lord President of the Court of Session resigned and the leading nobleman Archibald Campbell, 9th Earl of Argyll was forced into exile. In 1684, the remaining Society People posted an \"Apologetical Declaration\" on several market crosses, which informed servants of the government that they pursued the lives of its members at the risk of their own. In response to this new element of outright political sedition, the Scottish Privy Council authorised extrajudicial field executions of those caught in arms or those who refused to swear loyalty to the King. This more intense phase of persecution, later known in Protestant historiography as \"the Killing Time\", led to dissenters being summarily executed by the dragoons of James Graham, Laird of Claverhouse or sentenced to transportation or death by Sir George Mackenzie, the Lord Advocate.\n\nCharles died in 1685 and his brother succeeded him as James VII of Scotland (and II of England). James put Catholics in key positions in the government and even attendance at a conventicle was made punishable by death. He disregarded parliament, purged the Council and forced through religious toleration for Roman Catholics, alienating his Protestant subjects. The failure of an invasion, led by the Earl of Argyll and timed to co-ordinate with the Duke of Monmouth's rebellion in England, demonstrated the strength of the regime. However a riot in response to Louis XIV's Revocation of the Edict of Nantes indicated the strength of anti-Catholic feeling. The King's attempts to obtain toleration for Catholics led to the issuing of Letters of Indulgence in 1687, which also allowed freedom of worship to dissident Protestants, allowing \"outed\" Presbyterian ministers to return to their parishes. This did not extend to field conventicles and the Society People continued to endure hardship, with their last minister, James Renwick, being captured and executed in 1688.\n\nIt was believed that the King would be succeeded by his daughter Mary, a Protestant and the wife of William of Orange, Stadtholder of the Netherlands, but when in 1688, James produced a male heir, James Francis Edward Stuart, it was clear that his policies would outlive him. An invitation by seven leading Englishmen led William to land in England with 40,000 men on 5 November. In Edinburgh there were rumours of Orange plots and on 10 December the Lord Chancellor of Scotland, the Earl of Perth, quit the capital for Drummond Castle, planning an abortive escape to Ireland (he was later captured as he embarked for France). As rioters approached Holyrood Abbey they were fired on by soldiers, resulting in some deaths. The city guard was called out, but the Abbey was stormed by a large mob. The Catholic furnishings placed there when it was restored as a chapel for James were torn down and the tombs of the Stuart kings desecrated. A crowd of students burnt the Pope in effigy and took down the heads of executed Covenanters that were hanging above the city gates. The crisis was resolved when James fled from England on 23 December, leading to an almost bloodless revolution. Although there had been no significant Scottish involvement in the coup, most members of the Scottish Privy Council went to London to offer their services to William. On 7 January 1689, they asked William to take over the responsibilities of government.\n\nWilliam called a Scottish Convention, which convened on 14 March in Edinburgh. It was dominated by the Presbyterians. There was a faction that supported James, including many episcopalians, but these were divided by James' attempts to achieve tolerance for Roman Catholics. A letter from James, received on 16 March, contained a threat to punish all who rebelled against him and declaring the assembly illegal, resulted in his followers to abandon the Convention, leaving the Williamites dominant. On 4 April the Convention formulated the \"Claim of Right\" and the \"Articles of Grievances\". These suggested that James had forfeited the crown by his actions (in contrast to England, which relied on the legal fiction of an abdication) and offered it to William and Mary, which William accepted, along with limitations on royal power. On 11 May William and Mary accepted the Crown of Scotland as co-regents, as William II and Mary II. The final settlement, completed by William's Second parliament in 1690, restored Presbyterianism and abolished the bishops, who had generally supported James. Remaining ministers outed in 1662 were restored. The General Assembly of 1692 refused to reinstate even those Episcopalian ministers who pledged to accept Presbyterianism. However, the King issued two acts of indulgences in 1693 and 1695, allowing those who accepted him as king to return to the church and around a hundred took advantage of the offer. All but the hardened Jacobites would be given toleration in 1707, leaving only a small remnant of Jacobite episcopalians.\n\nScottish Protestantism in the seventeenth century was highly focused on the Bible, which was seen as infallible and the major source of moral authority. In the early part of the century the Genevan translation was commonly used. In 1611, the Kirk adopted the Authorised King James Version and the first Scots version was printed in Scotland in 1633, but the Geneva Bible continued to be employed into the late seventeenth century. Many Bibles were large, illustrated and highly valuable objects. They often became the subject of superstitions, being used in divination. Family worship was strongly encouraged by the Covenanters. Books of devotion were distributed to encourage the practice and ministers were encouraged to investigate whether this was being carried out.\n\nThe seventeenth century saw the high-water mark of kirk discipline. Kirk sessions were able to apply religious sanctions, such as excommunication and denial of baptism, to enforce godly behaviour and obedience. In more difficult cases of immoral behaviour they could work with the local magistrate, in a system modelled on that employed in Geneva. Public occasions were treated with mistrust and from the later seventeenth century there were efforts by kirk sessions to stamp out activities such as well-dressing, bonfires, guising, penny weddings and dancing. Kirk sessions also had an administrative burden in the system of poor relief. An act of 1649 declared that local heritors were to be assessed by kirk session to provide the financial resources for local relief, rather than relying on voluntary contributions. By the mid-seventeenth century the system had largely been rolled out across the Lowlands, but was limited in the Highlands. The system was largely able to cope with general poverty and minor crises, helping the old and infirm to survive and provide life support in periods of downturn at relatively low cost, but was overwhelmed in the major subsistence crisis of the 1690s, known as the seven ill years. The kirk also had a major role in education. Statutes passed in 1616, 1633, 1646 and 1696 established a parish school system, paid for by local heritors and administered by ministers and local presbyteries. By the late seventeenth century there was a largely complete network of parish schools in the Lowlands, but in the Highlands basic education was still lacking in many areas.\nIn the seventeenth century the pursuit of witchcraft was largely taken over by the kirk sessions and was often used to attack superstitious and Catholic practices in Scottish society. Most of the accused, some 75 per cent, were women, with over 1,500 executed, and the witch hunt in Scotland has been seen as a means of controlling women. The most intense witch hunt was in 1661–62, which involved some 664 named witches in four counties. From this point prosecutions began to decline as trials were more tightly controlled by the judiciary and government, torture was more sparingly used and standards of evidence were raised. B. P. Levack suggests that there may also have been a growing scepticism and with relative peace and stability the economic and social tensions that contributed to accusation may have reduced. There were occasional local outbreaks like that in East Lothian in 1678 and 1697 at Paisley. The last recorded executions were in 1706 and the last trial in 1727. The British parliament repealed the 1563 Act in 1736.\n\nThe numbers of practising Catholics probably continued to reduce in the seventeenth century and the organisation of the Church deteriorated. Some were to convert to Roman Catholicism, as did John Ogilvie (1569–1615), who went on to be ordained a priest in 1610, later being hanged for proselytism in Glasgow and often thought of as the only Scottish Catholic martyr of the Reformation era. An Irish Franciscan mission in the 1620s and 1630s claimed large numbers of converts, but these were confined to the Western Isles and had little impact on the mainland. A college for the education of Scots clergy was opened at Madrid in 1633, and was afterwards moved to Valladolid. In 1653, the remaining five or six clergy were incorporated under William Ballantine as prefect of the mission. There were a small number of Jesuits active in Strathgrass from the 1670s. The Pope appointed Thomas Nicolson as the first Vicar Apostolic over the mission in 1694 and the situation of Catholicism began to improve. Nicholson divided Scotland into districts, each with its own designated priests and he undertook visitations to ensure the implementation of Papal legislation. In 1700, his \"Statuta Missionis\", which included a code of conduct for priests and laymen, were approved by all the clergy. By 1703, there were 33 Catholic clergy.\n\n"}
{"id": "3406733", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3406733", "title": "Social shaping of technology", "text": "Social shaping of technology\n\nAccording to Robin A. Williams and David Edge (1996), \"Central to social shaping of technology (SST) is the concept that there are choices (though not necessarily conscious choices) inherent in both the design of individual artifacts and systems, and in the direction or trajectory of innovation programs.\"\n\nIf technology does not emerge from the unfolding of a predetermined logic or a single determinant, then innovation is a 'garden of forking paths'. Different routes are available, potentially leading to different technological outcomes. Significantly, these choices could have differing implications for society and for particular social groups.\n\nSST is one of the models of the technology: society relationship which emerged in the 1980s with MacKenzie and Wajcman's influential 1985 collection, alongside Pinch and Bijker's social construction of technology framework and Callon and Latour's actor-network theory. These have a common feature of criticism of the linear model of innovation and technological determinism. It differs from these notably in the attention it pays to the influence of the social and technological context of development which shapes innovation choices. SST is concerned to explore the material consequences of different technical choices, but criticizes technological determinism, which argues that technology follows its own developmental path, outside of human influences, and in turn, influences society. In this way, social shaping theorists conceive the relationship between technology and society as one of 'mutual shaping'.\n\nSome versions of this theory state that technology affects society by affordances, constraints, preconditions, and unintended consequences (Baym, 2015). Affordance is the idea that technology makes specific tasks easier in our lives, while constraints make tasks harder to complete. The preconditions of technology are the skills and resources that are vital to using the technology to its fullest potential. Finally, the unintended consequences of technology are unanticipated effects and impact of technology. The cell phone is an example of social shaping of technology (Zulto 2009). The cell phone has evolved over the years to make our lives easier by providing people with handheld computers that can answer calls, answer emails, search for information, and complete numerous other tasks (Zulto, 2009). Yet it has constraints for those that are not technologically savvy, hindering many people in society who do not understand how to utilize these devices. There are preconditions, such as monthly bills and access to electricity. There are also many unintended consequences such as the unintended distraction they cause for many people.\n\nNot only does technology affect society, but according to SST, society affects technology by way of economics, politics, and culture (Baym, 2015). For instance, cell phones have spread in poor countries due to cell phones being more affordable than a computer and internet service (economics), government regulations which have made it fairly easy for cell phone providers to build networks (politics), and the small size of cell phones which fit easily into many cultures’ need for mobile communication (culture).\n\nDonald A. MacKenzie, Judy Wajcman, Bruno Latour, Wiebe Bijker, Thomas P. Hughes, John Law, Trevor Pinch (also Trevor J. Pinch), Michel Callon, Steve Woolgar, Carl May, Thomas J. Misa, Boelie Elzen, Robin Williams (academic), Ronald Kline, Marlei Pozzebon, and Osman Sadeck\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1986205", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1986205", "title": "Socialism and LGBT rights", "text": "Socialism and LGBT rights\n\nThe connection between left-leaning ideologies and LGBT rights struggles has a long and mixed history. Prominent socialists who were involved in early struggles for LGBT rights include Edward Carpenter, Oscar Wilde, Harry Hay, Bayard Rustin, Emma Goldman and Daniel Guérin among others.\n\nThe first currents of modern socialist thought emerged in Europe in the early 19th century. They are now often described with the phrase utopian socialism. Gender and sexuality were significant concerns for many of the leading thinkers, such as Charles Fourier and Henri de Saint-Simon in France and Robert Owen in Britain, as well as their followers, many of whom were women. For Fourier, for example, true freedom could only occur without masters, without the ethos of work, and without suppressing passions; the suppression of passions is not only destructive to the individual, but to society as a whole. Writing before the advent of the term 'homosexuality', Fourier recognised that both men and women have a wide range of sexual needs and preferences which may change throughout their lives, including same-sex sexuality and \"androgénité\". He argued that all sexual expressions should be enjoyed as long as people are not abused, and that \"affirming one's difference\" can actually enhance social integration.\n\nFrom the earliest European homosexual rights movements, activists such as Karl-Heinrich Ulrichs and Magnus Hirschfeld approached the Left for support. During the 1860s, Ulrichs wrote to Karl Marx and sent him a number of books on Uranian (homosexual/transgender) emancipation, and in 1869 Marx passed one of Ulrich's books on to Engels. Engels responded with disgust to Marx in a private letter, lashing out at \"pederasts\" who are \"extremely against nature\", and described Ulrichs' platform of homosexual rights as \"turning smut into theory\". He worried that things would go badly for heterosexuals like himself should homosexual rights be gained.\n\nKnown to both Ulrichs and Marx was the case of Jean Baptista von Schweitzer, an important labor organiser who had been charged with attempting to solicit a teenage boy in a park in 1862. Social democrat leader Ferdinand Lassalle defended Schweitzer on the grounds that while he personally found homosexuality to be dirty, the labor movement needed the leadership of Schweitzer too much to abandon him, and that a person's sexual tastes had \"absolutely nothing to do with a man’s political character\". Marx, on the other hand, suggested that Engels use this incident to smear Schweitzer: \"You must arrange for a few jokes about him to reach Siebel, for him to hawk around to the various papers.\" However, Schweitzer would go on to become President of the German Labor Union, and the first Social Democrat elected to a parliament in Europe.\n\nAugust Bebel's \"Woman under Socialism\" (1879), the \"single work dealing with sexuality most widely read by rank-and-file members of the Social Democratic Party of Germany (SPD)\", can be seen as another example of the ambiguous position towards homosexuality in the German labor movement. One the one hand, Bebel warned socialists of the dangers of same-sex love. Bebel attributed \"this crime against nature\" in both men and women to sexual indulgence and excess, describing it as an upper-class, metropolitan and foreign vice. On the other hand, he did publicly support the efforts to legalize homosexuality. For example, he signed the first petition of the \"Wissenschaftlich-humanitärer Kreis\", a study group led by Magnus Hirschfeld, trying to explain homosexuality from a scientific point of view and pushing for decriminalization. In an article for Gay News in 1978, John Lauritsen considers August Bebel as the first important politician \"to speak out in public debate\" in the favor of gay rights since he attacked the criminialization of homosexuality in a Reichstag debate in 1898.\n\nThe leading figure of the LGBT movement in Germany from the turn of the 20th century until the Nazi government came to power in 1933 was undoubtedly Magnus Hirschfeld. Hirschfeld, who was also a socialist and supporter of the Women's Movement, formed the Scientific-Humanitarian Committee to campaign against German Penal Code Section 175 which outlawed male-male sex. Hirschfeld's organisation did a deal with the SPD (of which Lassalle and Schweitzer had been members) to get them to put forward a bill in the Reichstag in 1898, but it was opposed in the Reichstag and failed to pass. Most of Hirschfeld's circle of homosexual activists had socialist politics, including Kurt Hiller, Richard Linsert, Johanna Elberskirchen and Bruno Vogel. After the toppling of the German monarchy, the struggle against § 175 was continued by some social democrats. The German Minister of Justice Gustav Radbruch, member of the Social Democratic Party, tried to erase the paragraphe from the German penal law. However, his efforts were to no avail.\n\nIn Oscar Wilde's \"The Soul of Man Under Socialism\", he advocates for an egalitarian society where wealth is shared by all, while warning of the dangers of authoritarian socialism that would crush individuality. He later commented, \"I think I am rather more than a Socialist. I am something of an Anarchist, I believe.\". \"In August 1894, Wilde wrote to his lover, Lord Alfred Douglas, to tell of “a dangerous adventure.” He had gone out sailing with two lovely boys, Stephen and Alphonso, and they were caught in a storm. “We took five hours in an awful gale to come back! [And we] did not reach pier till eleven o’clock at night, pitch dark all the way, and a fearful sea. . . . All the fishermen were waiting for us.”...Tired, cold, and “wet to the skin,” the three men immediately “flew to the hotel for hot brandy and water.” But there was a problem. The law stood in the way: “As it was past ten o’clock on a Sunday night the proprietor could not sell us any brandy or spirits of any kind! So he had to give it to us. The result was not displeasing, but what laws!”...Wilde finishes the story: “Both Alphonso and Stephen are now anarchists, I need hardly say.”\"\n\nEdward Carpenter was a leading figure in late 19th- and early 20th-century Britain being instrumental in the foundation of the Fabian Society and the Labour Party. The 1890s saw Carpenter in a concerted effort to campaign against discrimination on the grounds of sexual orientation. He strongly believed that same-sex attraction was a natural orientation for people of a third sex. His 1908 book on the subject, \"The Intermediate Sex\", would become a foundational text of the LGBT movements of the 20th century. \"The Intermediate Sex: A Study of Some Transitional Types of Men and Women\" expressed his views on homosexuality. Carpenter argues that \"uranism\", as he terms homosexuality, was on the increase marking a new age of sexual liberation. He continued to work in the early part of the 20th century composing works on the \"Homogenic question\". The publication in 1902 of his groundbreaking anthology of poems, \"Ioläus: An Anthology of Friendship\", was a huge underground success, leading to a more advanced knowledge of homoerotic culture. In April 1914, Carpenter and his friend Laurence Houseman founded the British Society for the Study of Sex Psychology. Some of the topics addressed in lecture and publication by the society included: the promotion of the scientific study of sex; a more rational attitude towards sexual conduct and problems and questions connected with sexual psychology (from medical, juridical, and sociological aspects), birth control, abortion, sterilization, venereal diseases, and all aspects of prostitution.\n\nIn Europe and North America, the free love movement combined ideas revived from utopian socialism with anarchism and feminism to attack the \"hypocritical\" sexual morality of the Victorian era, and the institutions of marriage and the family that were alleged to enslave women. Free lovers advocated voluntary sexual unions with no state interference and affirmed the right to sexual pleasure for both women and men, sometimes explicitly supporting the rights of homosexuals and prostitutes. For a few decades, adherence to \"free love\" became widespread among European and American anarchists, but these views were opposed at the time by Marxists and social democrats. Radical feminist and socialist Victoria Woodhull was expelled from the International Workingmen's Association in 1871 for her involvement in the free love and associated movements. Indeed, with Marx's support, the American branch of the organisation was purged of its pacifist, anti-racist and feminist elements, which were accused of putting too much emphasis on issues unrelated to class struggle and were therefore seen to be incompatible with scientific socialism.\n\nThe \"Verband Fortschrittlicher Frauenvereine\" (League of Progressive Women's Associations), a turn of the 20th century left-wing organisation led by Lily Braun campaigned for the decriminalisation of homosexuality in Germany and aimed at organising prostitutes into labour unions. The broader labour movement either attacked the League, saying they were utopians, or ignored it, and Braun was driven out of the international Marxist movement. Helene Stöcker, another German activist from the left wing of the women's movement, became heavily involved in the sexual reform movement in 1919, after World War I, and served on the board of the Institut für Sexualwissenschaft. She also campaigned to protect single mothers and their children from economic and moral persecution. Anarcho-syndicalist writer Ulrich Linse wrote about \"a sharply outlined figure of the Berlin individualist anarchist cultural scene around 1900\", the \"precocious Johannes Holzmann\" (known as Senna Hoy): \"an adherent of free love, [Hoy] celebrated homosexuality as a 'champion of culture' and engaged in the struggle against Paragraph 175.\" The young Hoy (born 1882) published these views in his weekly magazine, (\"\", in English \"Struggle\") from 1904 which reached a circulation of 10,000 the following year. German anarchist psychotherapist Otto Gross also wrote extensively about same-sex sexuality in both men and women and argued against its discrimination. Heterosexual anarchist Robert Reitzel (1849–98) spoke positively of homosexuality from the beginning of the 1890s in his German-language journal \"Der arme Teufel\" (Detroit).\n\nAcross the Atlantic, in New York's Greenwich Village, Bohemian feminists and socialists advocated self-realisation and pleasure for women (and also men) in the here and now, as well as campaigning against the First World War and for other anarchist and socialist causes. They encouraged playing with sexual roles and sexuality, and the openly bisexual radical Edna St. Vincent Millay and the lesbian anarchist Margaret Anderson were prominent among them. The Villagers took their inspiration from the mostly anarchist immigrant female workers from the period 1905-1915 and the \"New Life Socialism\" of Edward Carpenter, Havelock Ellis and Olive Schreiner. Discussion groups organised by the Villagers were frequented by the Russian anarchist Emma Goldman, among others. Magnus Hirschfeld noted in 1923 that Goldman \"has campaigned boldly and steadfastly for individual rights, and especially for those deprived of their rights. Thus it came about that she was the first and only woman, indeed the first and only American, to take up the defense of homosexual love before the general public.\" In fact, prior to Goldman, heterosexual anarchist Robert Reitzel (1849–98) spoke positively of homosexuality from the beginning of the 1890s in his German-language journal \"Der arme Teufel\" (Detroit). During her life, Goldman was lionized as a free-thinking \"rebel woman\" by admirers, and derided by critics as an advocate of politically motivated murder and violent revolution. Her writing and lectures spanned a wide variety of issues, including prisons, atheism, freedom of speech, militarism, capitalism, marriage, free love, and homosexuality. Although she distanced herself from first-wave feminism and its efforts toward women's suffrage, she developed new ways of incorporating gender politics into anarchism. After decades of obscurity, Goldman's iconic status was revived in the 1970s, when feminist and anarchist scholars rekindled popular interest in her life.\n\nMujeres Libres was an anarchist women's organization in Spain that aimed to empower working class women. It was founded in 1936 by Lucía Sánchez Saornil, Mercedes Comaposada and Amparo Poch y Gascón and had approximately 30,000 members. The organization was based on the idea of a \"double struggle\" for women's liberation and social revolution and argued that the two objectives were equally important and should be pursued in parallel. In order to gain mutual support, they created networks of women anarchists. Flying day-care centres were set up in efforts to involve more women in union activities. Lucía Sánchez Saornil was a Spanish poet, militant anarchist and feminist. She is best known as one of the founders of \"Mujeres Libres\" and served in the Confederación Nacional del Trabajo (CNT) and Solidaridad Internacional Antifascista (SIA). By 1919, she had been published in a variety of journals, including \"Los Quijotes\", \"Tableros\", \"Plural\", \"Manantial\" and \"La Gaceta Literaria\". Working under a male pen name, she was able to explore lesbian themes at a time when homosexuality was criminalized and subject to censorship and punishment. Writing in anarchist publications such as \"Earth and Freedom\", the \"White Magazine\" and \"Workers' Solidarity\", Lucía outlined her perspective as a feminist. Although quiet on the subject of birth control, she attacked the essentialism of gender roles in Spanish society. In this way, Lucía established herself as one of the most radical of voices among anarchist women, rejecting the ideal of female domesticity which remained largely unquestioned. In a series of articles for \"Workers' Solidarity\", she boldly refuted Gregorio Marañón's identification of motherhood as the nucleus of female identity.\n\nAnarchism's foregrounding of individual freedoms made for a natural marriage with homosexuality in the eyes of many, both inside and outside of the Anarchist movement. Emil Szittya, in \"Das Kuriositäten-Kabinett\" (1923), wrote about homosexuality that \"very many anarchists have this tendency. Thus I found in Paris a Hungarian anarchist, Alexander Sommi, who founded a homosexual anarchist group on the basis of this idea.\" His view is confirmed by Magnus Hirschfeld in his 1914 book \"Die Homosexualität des Mannes und des Weibes\": \"In the ranks of a relatively small party, the anarchist, it seemed to me as if proportionately more homosexuals and effeminates are found than in others.\" Italian anarchist Luigi Bertoni (who Szittya also believed to be gay) said that \"Anarchists demand freedom in everything, thus also in sexuality. Homosexuality leads to a healthy sense of egoism, for which every anarchist should strive.\"\n\nAnarcho-syndicalist writer Ulrich Linse wrote about \"a sharply outlined figure of the Berlin individualist anarchist cultural scene around 1900\", the \"precocious Johannes Holzmann\" (known as Senna Hoy): \"an adherent of free love, [Hoy] celebrated homosexuality as a 'champion of culture' and engaged in the struggle against Paragraph 175.” The young Hoy (born 1882) published these views in his weekly magazine, (\"Kampf\") from 1904 which reached a circulation of 10,000 the following year. German anarchist psychotherapist Otto Gross also wrote extensively about same-sex sexuality in both men and women and argued against its discrimination. In the 1920s and 1930s, French individualist anarchist publisher Emile Armand campaigned for acceptance of free love, including homosexuality, in his journal \"L'en dehors\".\n\nThe individualist anarchist Adolf Brand was originally a member of Hirschfeld's Scientific-Humanitarian committee, but formed a break-away group. Brand and his colleagues, known as the Gemeinschaft der Eigenen, were heavily influenced by homosexual anarchist John Henry Mackay. The group despised effeminacy and saw homosexuality as an expression of manly virility available to all men, espousing a form of nationalistic masculine \"Lieblingminne\" (chivalric love) that would later be linked to the rise of Nazism. They were opposed to Hirschfeld's medical characterisation of homosexuality as the domain of an \"intermediate sex\". Brand \"toyed with anti-Semitism\", and disdained Hirschfeld on the grounds that he was Jewish. Ewald Tschek, another gay anarchist writer of the era, regularly contributed to Adolf Brand's journal \"Der Eigene\", and wrote in 1925 that Hirschfeld’s Scientific Humanitarian Committee was a danger to the German people, caricaturing Hirschfeld as \"Dr. Feldhirsch\".\n\nWhilst these prohomosexual stances had begun to surface; many members of the anarchist movement of the time still believed that nature/a divine Creator had provided a perfect answer to human relationships; an editorial in an influential Spanish anarchist journal from 1935 argued that an Anarchist must even avoid any relationship with homosexuals: \"If you are an anarchist, that means that you are more morally upright and physically strong than the average man. And he who likes inverts is no real man, and is therefore no real anarchist.\" However, despite that view, many present-day anarchists accept homosexuality.\n\nMcCarthyism in the US believed a \"homosexual underground\" was abetting the \"communist conspiracy\", which was sometimes called the Homintern. A number of homosexual rights groups came into being during this period. These groups, now known as the \"homophile\" movement, often had left-wing or socialist politics, such as the communist Mattachine Society and the Dutch COC which originated on the left. In the context of the highly politicised Cold War environment, homosexuality became framed as a dangerous, contagious social disease that posed a potential threat to state security. This era also witnessed the establishment of widely spread FBI surveillance intended to identify homosexual government employees.\nHarry Hay, who is seen by many as the father of the modern gay rights movement in the United States, was originally a trade union activist. In 1934, he organised an important 83-day-long workers' strike of the port of San Francisco with his lover, actor Will Geer. He was an active member of the Communist Party. Hay and the Mattachine Society were among the first to argue that gay people were not just individuals but in fact represented a \"cultural minority\". They even called for public marches of homosexuals, predicting later gay pride parades. Hay's concept of the \"cultural minority\" came directly from his Marxist studies, and the rhetoric that he and his colleague Charles Rowland employed often reflected the militant Communist tradition. The Communist Party did not officially allow gays to be members, claiming that homosexuality was a 'deviation'; perhaps more important was the fear that a member's (usually secret) homosexuality would leave them open to blackmail and made them a security risk in an era of red-baiting. Concerned to save the party difficulties, as he put more energy into the Mattachine Society, Hay himself approached the CP's leaders and recommended his own expulsion. However, after much soul-searching, the CP, clearly reeling at the loss of a respected member and theoretician of 18 years' standing, refused to expel Hay as a homosexual, instead expelling him under the more convenient ruse of 'security risk', while ostentatiously announcing him to be a 'Lifelong Friend of the People'. The Mattachine Society was the second gay rights organization that Hay established, the first being \"'Bachelors for Wallace\" (1948) in support of Henry Wallace's progressive presidential candidacy. The \"Encyclopedia of Homosexuality\" reports that \"As Marxists the founders of the group believed that the injustice and oppression which they suffered stemmed from relationships deeply embedded in the structure of American society\".\n\nIn 1951, the Socialist Party USA was close to adopting a platform plank in favor of gay rights, with one article in the Youth Socialist Party press supporting such a move. African American socialist and civil rights activist Bayard Rustin was arrested in Pasadena, California, in 1953 for homosexual activity with two other men in a parked car. Originally charged with vagrancy and lewd conduct, he pleaded guilty to a single, lesser charge of \"sex perversion\" (as consensual sodomy was officially referred to in California then) and served 60 days in jail. This was the first time that his homosexuality had come to public attention. He had been and remained candid about his sexuality, although homosexuality was still criminalized throughout the United States. In 1957, Rustin and Martin Luther King Jr. began organizing the Southern Christian Leadership Conference (SCLC). Many African-American leaders were concerned that Rustin's sexual orientation and past Communist membership would undermine support for the civil rights movement. U.S. Representative Adam Clayton Powell, Jr., who was a member of the SCLC's board, forced Rustin's resignation from the SCLC in 1960 by threatening to discuss Rustin's morals charge in Congress. A few weeks before the March on Washington for Jobs and Freedom in August 1963, Senator Strom Thurmond railed against Rustin as a \"Communist, draft-dodger, and homosexual,\" and had the entire Pasadena arrest file entered in the record. Thurmond also produced a Federal Bureau of Investigation photograph of Rustin talking to King while King was bathing, to imply that there was a same-sex relationship between the two. Both men denied the allegation of an affair. Rustin was instrumental in organizing the March on Washington for Jobs and Freedom on August 7, 1963. He drilled off-duty police officers as marshals, bus captains to direct traffic, and scheduled the podium speakers. Eleanor Holmes Norton and Rachelle Horowitz were aides. Despite King's support, NAACP chairman Roy Wilkins did not want Rustin to receive any public credit for his role in planning the march. Nevertheless, he did become well known. On September 6, 1963, Rustin and Randolph appeared on the cover of \"Life\" magazine as \"the leaders\" of the March. Throughout the 1970s and 1980s, Rustin worked as a human rights and election monitor for Freedom House. He also testified on behalf of New York State's Gay Rights Bill. In 1986, he gave a speech \"The New Niggers Are Gays,\" in which he asserted,\n\nThe Soviet Government of the Russian Soviet Republic decriminalised homosexuality in December 1917, following the October Revolution and the discarding of the Legal Code of Tzarist Russia. Effectively the Soviet government decriminalised homosexuality in Russia and Ukraine after 1917. However other states in the USSR continued to ascribe legal punishments on sodomy. This policy of decriminalising homosexuality in the Russian SSR and Ukrainian SSR endured for the bulk of the 1920s - until the Stalinist era. In 1933 the Soviet government, under Stalin, recriminalised homosexuality. On March 7, 1934, Article 121 was added to the criminal code, for the entire Soviet Union, that expressly prohibited only male homosexuality, with up to five years of hard labor in prison. There were no criminal statutes regarding lesbianism. \n\nThe lowest point in the history of the relationship between socialism and homosexuality undoubtedly begins with the rise of Joseph Stalin in the USSR, after Lenin's death, and continues through the era of state communism in the Soviet Union, East Germany, China and North Korea. In all cases the conditions of sexual minorities, including transgender people, worsened in communist states after the arrival of Stalin. Hundreds of thousands of homosexuals were interned in gulags during the Great Purge, where many were beaten to death. Some Western intellectuals withdrew their support of Communism after seeing the severity of repression in the USSR, including the gay writer André Gide.\n\nHistorian Jennifer Evans reports that the East German government \"alternated between the view [of homosexual activity] as a remnant of bourgeois decadence, a sign of moral weakness, and a threat to social and political health of the nation.\" Homosexuality was legalized in East Germany when Article 174 was repealed in 1968.\n\nThere was a variety of attitudes to homosexuality in the Socialist countries. Some states (such as the early Soviet Union prior to 1929-1933) practiced as degree of toleration. Others maintained negative policies towards homosexuals throughout their history, or gradually evolved to positions of relative toleration or official ignorance after the 1960s (East Germany, the USSR, etc.) In less tolerant periods effeminate men and homosexuals were sometimes forced to participate in programs of 'reeducation' involving forced labor, conversion therapy, psychotropic drugs or confinement in psychiatric hospitals.\n\nThe revolutionary Cuban gay writer Reinaldo Arenas noted that, shortly after the communist government of Fidel Castro came to power, \"persecution began and concentration camps were opened [...] the sexual act became taboo while the \"new man\" was proclaimed and masculinity exalted.\" Homosexuality was legalized in Cuba in 1979. Fidel Castro apologized for Cuba's poor historical record on LGBT issues in 2010.\n\nWhile there had been no law against sodomy in the USSR, such a law was introduced in 1933, added to the penal code as Article 121, which condemned homosexual relations with penalties of imprisonment up to five years. With the fall of the Soviet regime and the repeal of the law against sex between consenting adult men, prisoners convicted under that part of the law were released very slowly.\n\nHomosexuality was legalized in several Eastern Bloc countries under Communism, such as Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia and Hungary.\nDuring the emergence of the new social movements of the 1960s and 1970s, the socialist left began to review its relationship to gender, sexuality and identity politics. The writings of the French bisexual anarchist Daniel Guérin offer an insight into the tension sexual minorities among the Left have often felt. He was a leading figure in the French Left from the 1930s until his death in 1988. After coming out in 1965, he spoke about the extreme hostility toward homosexuality that permeated the left throughout much of the 20th century. \"Not so many years ago, to declare oneself a revolutionary and to confess to being homosexual were incompatible,\" Guérin wrote in 1975. In 1954, Guérin was widely attacked for his study of the Kinsey Reports in which he also detailed the oppression of homosexuals in France. \"The harshest [criticisms] came from marxists, who tend seriously to underestimate the form of oppression which is antisexual terrorism. I expected it, of course, and I knew that in publishing my book I was running the risk of being attacked by those to whom I feel closest on a political level.\" After coming out publicly in 1965, Guérin was abandoned by the Left, and his papers on sexual liberation were censored or refused publication in left-wing journals. From the 1950s, Guérin moved away from Marxism-Leninism and toward a synthesis of anarchism and marxism close to platformism which allowed for individualism while rejecting capitalism. Guérin was involved in the uprising of May 1968, and was a part of the French Gay Liberation movement that emerged after the events. Decades later, Frédéric Martel described Guérin as the \"grandfather of the French homosexual movement.\"\nMeanwhile, in the United States late in his career the influential anarchist thinker Paul Goodman came out as bisexual. The freedom with which he revealed, in print and in public, his romantic and sexual relations with men (notably in a late essay, \"Being Queer\"), proved to be one of the many important cultural springboards for the emerging gay liberation movement of the early 1970s.\n\nEmerging from a number of events, such as the May 1968 insurrection in France, the anti-Vietnam war movement in the US and the Stonewall riots of 1969, militant Gay Liberation organisations began to spring up around the world. Many saw their roots in left radicalism more than in the established homophile groups of the time, such as British and American Gay Liberation Front, the British Gay Left Collective, the Italian Fuori!, the French FHAR, the German Rotzschwule, and the Dutch Red Faggots.\n\nThe then styled Gay Lib leaders and writers also came from a left-wing background, such as Dennis Altman, Martin Duberman, Steven Ault, Brenda Howard, John D'Emilio, David Fernbach (writing in the English language), Pierre Hahn and Guy Hocquenghem (in French) and the Italian Mario Mieli. Some were inspired by Herbert Marcuse's \"Eros and Civilization\", which attempts to synthesise the ideas of Karl Marx and Sigmund Freud. 1960s and 1970s radical Angela Davis (who officially came out as a lesbian in 1999) had studied under Marcuse and was greatly influenced by him.\nIn France, gay activist and political theorist Guy Hocquenghem, like many others, developed a commitment to socialism through participating in the May 1968 insurrection. A former member of the French Communist Party, he later joined the Front Homosexuel d'Action Révolutionnaire (FHAR), formed by radical lesbians who split from the Mouvement Homophile de France in 1971, including the left ecofeminist Françoise d'Eaubonne. That same year, the FHAR became the first homosexual group to demonstrate publicly in France when they joined Paris’s annual May Day march held by trade unions and left-wing parties.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, the 1980s saw increased opposition to LGBT rights from the right wing Conservative government led by Margaret Thatcher, who introduced Section 28 in 1988 in order to prevent what they saw as the \"promotion\" of homosexuality as an acceptable lifestyle in schools. However, the Conservatives' main opposition, the Labour Party, did little to address the issue of LGBT rights, ignoring calls from left-wingers such as Ken Livingstone, to do so. Meanwhile, the popular right-wing press featured pejorative references to lesbians, supposedly especially associated with the all-female anti-nuclear protest camp at Greenham Common, and individuals such as Peter Tatchell, the Labour candidate in the 1983 Bermondsey by-election.\n\nHowever, the growing commercialisation of the western gay subculture in the late 20th and early 21st centuries (the \"pink pound\") has come under heavy criticism from socialists, for instance, Hannah Dee remarked that it had reached \"the point that London Pride - once a militant demonstration in commemoration of the Stonewall riots - has become a corporate-sponsored event far removed from any challenge to the ongoing injustices that we [the LGBT community] face.\" At the same time, an anti-war coalition between Muslims (many organized through Mosques) and the Socialist Workers Party led a leading member Lindsey German to reject the use of gay rights as a \"shibboleth\" that would automatically rule out such alliances.\n\nThe American Revolutionary Communist Party's policy that \"struggle will be waged to eliminate [homosexuality] and reform homosexuals\" wasn't abandoned until 2001. The RCP now strongly supports gay liberation. Meanwhile, the American Socialist Workers Party (SWP) in the US released a memo stating that gay oppression had less \"social weight\" than black and women's struggles, and prohibited members from being involved in gay political organisations. They also believed that too close an association with gay liberation would give the SWP an \"exotic image\" and alienate it from the masses.\n\nAs the Gay Liberation movement began to gain ground, Socialist organizations' policies evolved, and many groups actively campaigned for gay rights. Notable examples are the feminist Freedom Socialist Party, the Party for Socialism and Liberation, the International Socialist Organization, Socialist Alternative (United States) and the Socialist Party USA. The Socialist Party USA was the first American political party to nominate an openly gay man for President, running David McReynolds in 1980.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23611163", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23611163", "title": "Soil moisture zone", "text": "Soil moisture zone\n\nThe soil moisture zone is the depth of soil from which plant roots extract water.\n"}
{"id": "25680838", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25680838", "title": "Strategic petroleum reserve (China)", "text": "Strategic petroleum reserve (China)\n\nThe Strategic Petroleum Reserve (SPR) is an emergency fuel store of oil maintained by the People's Republic of China National Development and Reform Commission. China doesn't officially report it's SPR volume but it's estimated to be approximately 400 million barrels in total, with a capacity of around 500 million barrels. \n\nIn 2007 China announced an expansion of their crude reserves into a two part system. Chinese reserves would consist of a government-controlled strategic reserve complemented by mandated commercial reserves. The government-controlled reserves was completed in three phases. Phase one consisted of a 101.9 million barrel reserve, mostly completed by the end of 2008. The second phase of the government-controlled reserves with an additional 170 million barrels for completion by 2011. Recently, Zhang Guobao the head of the National Energy Administration also stated that there will be a third phase that will expand reserves by 204 million barrels with the goal in 2009 of increasing China's SPR to 90 days of supply by 2020.\n\nThe government and enterprise reserves are managed by the National Development and Reform Commission(NDRC). Current plans call for government reserves of 475.9 million barrels (101.9 million barrels completed, 374 million barrels planned).\n\nCurrently the enterprise reserves compose a smaller portion of the overall SPR with a 209.44 million barrel strategic reserve planned (35.33 million barrels completed, 51.5 million barrels under construction).\n\nThe planned state reserves of 475.9 million barrels plus the planned enterprise reserves of 209.44 million barrels will provide around 90 days of consumption or a total of 685.34 million barrels.\n\nThe U.S. Strategic Petroleum Reserve is the largest emergency supply in the world with the current capacity to hold up to . The second largest emergency supply of oil is Japan's with a 2003 reported capacity of.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48428408", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48428408", "title": "TANSI land acquisition case", "text": "TANSI land acquisition case\n\nTANSI land acquisition case (or TANSI case) was a sensational case against Jayalalithaa in Tamil Nadu, during 1991-96. Jaya Publication and Sasi Enterprises, the companies in which Jayalalitha and her aide Sasikala had holdings, purchased lands of Tamil Nadu Small Industries Corporation (TANSI), a state government agency, in 1992. The case was filed by Subramanian Swamy and chargesheet were filed during the following DMK (Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam) government headed by Karunanidhi in 1996. Jayalalitha and her aide, Sasikala were convicted in the lower court, which sentenced her to two year rigorous imprisonment and fined 50,000 on 9 October 2000. The case had political implications as Jayalalithaa was disqualified from contesting the Tamil Nadu Assembly Elections 2001. Though Jayalalithaa's nomination papers were rejected, she took oath as chief minister after the victory of AIADMK in the elections. The Supreme Court disqualified her in September 2001, resulting in her stepping down and elevation of O Panneerselvam as the chief minister. The governor of Tamil Nadu, Fathima Beevi, who administered oath to Jayalalithaa, was advised to step down by the union ministry, who also sent the report to the President of India.\n\nThe Madras High Court acquitted her and other five accused in the case of all the charges on 4 December 2001. The Supreme Court upheld the order of Madras High Court on 24 November 2003 on grounds of lack of evidence. She came back to power winning the Tamil Nadu assembly by-election, 2002 from Andipatti constituency in March 2002.\n\nJayalalithaa Jayaram (born 24 February 1948), commonly referred to as Jayalalithaa, was an Indian politician and three time Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu during various times from 1991-96, 2002-06 and 2011-14, 2015- 5-Dec-2016. Jaya Publication and Sasi Enterprises, the companies in which Jayalalitha and Sasikala had holdings, purchased lands of Tamil Nadu Small Industries Corporation (TANSI), a state government agency, in 1992. The companies bought land and building belonging to TANSI, which was quoted to be 35 crores less than the market price. The chargesheet filed during 1996 stated that the purchase of foundry property caused a loss of 2.28 crores and enamel wire factory caused a loss of 58.8 lakh to the state exchequer. \n\nThe case was filed by Subramanian Swamy in the Madras trial court. The trial court framed charges against her and five others on 10 June 1999. The Madras Court discharged her from the case on 13 January 2000, but based on the leave petition filed by the state government, the court ordered her to face the trial. She was convicted of criminal conspiracy by the trial court on 9 October 2000, sentencing her to two year rigorous imprisonment in the two cases and fined 50,000. She was sentenced under Sections 120-B (for punishment of criminal conspiracy) and 409 (for criminal breach of trust by public servant or by banker, merchant or agent) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Sections 13 (2) and 13 (1)(c) and (d) of the Prevention of Corruption Act (PCA). While Jayalalitha and Sasikala were sentenced as the first and second accused, four others, namely, the former Chairman and Managing Director of TANSI T.R. Srinivasan, former Rural Industries Minister Mohammed Asif, former Special Deputy Collector (Stamps) S. Nagarajan and Jayalalitha's former Additional Secretary R. Karpoorasundarapandian, were sentenced to two years rigorous imprisonment and levied a fine of 10,000 each in the Jaya Publications case. The six were sentenced in the Sasi Enterprises case as well and similar sentence was awarded. In November 2000, the Madras Court stayed the conviction, but still debarred her from contesting the state assembly elections in 2001. \n\nThe AIADMK party swept the poll in 2001 and though she was disqualified from contesting, she was sworn in as the Chief Minister. There was an appeal in Supreme Court against her appointment as Chief minister quoting a convicted person cannot hold government office. K. Venugopal appeared as counsel for Jayalalitha and Sasikala, while Venkatapathy acted as the public prosecutor. While the prosecutor sought further time to study the case, the court went ahead with the hearing of the appellate. K. Venugopal argued that there was no impropriety with Jayalalitha continuing as Chief minister as it was a large scale people's mandate that wanted her as the chief minister. On 21 September 2001, a five member bench of the Supreme Court ordered that a disqualified person cannot hold office of the Chief minister. The judges quoted that people's mandate cannot overrule constitution. The governor of Tamil Nadu, Fathima Beevi, who administered oath to Jayalalithaa, was advised to step down by the union ministry, who also sent the report to the President of India. It was a rare case of a constitutional functionary being removed from power for omission of duties. She resigned before she could be called back by the central government on 1 July 2001 and her resignation was accepted and C. Rangarajan, the then governor of neighbouring state Andhra Pradesh was given additional charge as governor of Tamil Nadu. \n\nFollowing the disqualification of Jayalalithaa as Chief minister, media reported various front runners for the post. There were no clear names emerging. Subsequently, at a meeting of AIADMK, O. Panneerselvam was chosen as the Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu.\n\nOn 4 December 2001, the Madras High Court acquitted her of all the charges on the TANSI land acquisition. She contested the Andipatti assembly constituency and was sworn-in again as the Chief Minister. The Supreme Court reserved the orders of the lower court against the leave petition filed by DMK party counsel against the lower court verdict. Subramaniya Swami appealed against her acquittal in the lower court in the Supreme Court of India, which again acquitted her from the two cases on 24 November 2003 ruling that though there is strong suspicion about her involvement in the case, there was no legal evidence to prove her guilt. The judge also ordered \"She must atone her conscience in the whole controversy\". It was later reported that she returned the land to the agency at throwaway price.\n\nJayalalithaa came back to power winning the Tamil Nadu assembly by-election, 2002 from Andipatti constituency. Politicians believe that the outcome of the case along with the other cases filed by the DMK government against her resulted in a political vendetta between the ruling AIADMK and the opposition DMK parties. After assuming power, the Jayalalithaa government filed a slew of corruption cases against the DMK government ministers who were in office from 1996 - 2001. Karunanidhi, the leader of DMK and ex-chief minister was arrested in an alleged flyover construction scam. The arrest created a controversy in the state as the videotapes of the arrest were telecast live by Sun TV, the channel run by Karunanidhi's nephew. The ruling AIADMK government also transferred all the officials who were seen close to the previous government. \n\n"}
{"id": "26190757", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26190757", "title": "Tea Party Patriots", "text": "Tea Party Patriots\n\nTea Party Patriots is a conservative American political organization that promotes fiscally responsible activism as part of the Tea Party movement. Its mission is \"to attract, educate, organize, and mobilize our fellow citizens to secure public policy consistent with our three core values of Fiscal Responsibility, Constitutionally Limited Government and Free Markets.\" The group is a strong opponent of \"excess\" government spending and debt.\n\nIn 2010, the group reportedly included over 2,200 local chapters, as well as an online community of 115,311 members (estimated at 63% male, 31% female, 6% unspecified).\n\nThe organization was founded by Jenny Beth Martin, Mark Meckler, and Amy Kremer in March 2009.\n\nTea Party Patriots was a co-sponsor of the 9/12 March on Washington, but refused to participate in the National Tea Party Convention. Tea Party Patriots is most notable for organizing citizen opposition at the healthcare town hall meetings of 2009, as well as various other anti-government run health care protests.\n\nIn February 2010, Tea Party Patriots was among the twelve most influential groups in the Tea Party movement, according to the \"National Journal\". In September 2010, the group announced it had received a $1,000,000 donation from an anonymous donor. The money was distributed to its affiliated groups and must be spent by Election Day, though it could not be used to directly support any candidate. Tea Party Patriots was one of the top five most influential organizations in the Tea Party movement, according to the \"Washington Post\".\n\nIn 2012, the group along with the Southern Republican Leadership Conference organized a presidential debate that aired on CNN.\n\nAlong with various other conservative and libertarian organizations the Tea Party Patriots have developed a Contract from America that echoes the Republican Contract with America of 1994 stating some of the core principles and several specific goals shared by organizations and individuals involved with the tea parties.\n\nIn July 2012 the group's Atlanta chapter partnered with the Sierra Club and the NAACP to defeat a proposed transit tax in Atlanta. The referendum was defeated by a margin of 63 percent.\n\n\"Rolling Stone\" and Talking Points Memo have alleged that the organization is run with the help of FreedomWorks, a conservative nonprofit. Tea Party Patriots denies this claim.\n\nA 2011 investigation by the magazine \"Mother Jones\" alleged that the Tea Party Patriots organization was using its 501(c)(4) status to avoid disclosing its expenditures both to the IRS and to local contributors. The magazine reported that when local Tea Party groups pressed for more details on the group's expenses, they were removed from the umbrella organization and threatened with legal action. The magazine reported that Tea Party Patriots \"has started to resemble the Beltway lobbying operations its members have denounced.\"\n\nIn 2014, \"The Washington Post\" reported that Tea Party Patriots president Jenny Beth Martin was receiving two salaries from the organization: a $15,000 per month fee for strategic consulting and a $272,000 salary as president, with total annual compensation over $450,000.\n\n"}
{"id": "43605100", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43605100", "title": "The Alvin Weinberg Foundation", "text": "The Alvin Weinberg Foundation\n\nThe Alvin Weinberg Foundation was a registered UK charity, operating under the name Weinberg Next Nuclear, that campaigns for research and development into next-generation nuclear energy. In particular, it advocates advancement of Liquid Fluoride Thorium Reactor (LFTR) and other Molten Salt Reactor (MSR) technologies.\n\nIt was named for Dr Alvin M. Weinberg, Director of Oak Ridge National Laboratory between 1955–1973 and the main advocate of MSR development.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51899125", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51899125", "title": "The End of White Christian America", "text": "The End of White Christian America\n\nThe End of White Christian America is a 2016 American non-fiction book by Robert P. Jones.\n\nAuthor Robert P. Jones, CEO of the Public Religion Research Institute, looks at the political and cultural changes of an America that is no longer a majority white Christian nation.\n\n"}
{"id": "52269367", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52269367", "title": "The Evangelical Network (TEN)", "text": "The Evangelical Network (TEN)\n\nThe Evangelical Network (also known as TEN) is an association of Christian and Evangelical ministries that are a part of and are affirming to the LGBTQ community and their relationships. The TEN website describes its focus in a mission statement including the following goals:\n\n\nThe Evangelical Network is not a denomination (as explained on their FAQ page), and includes in its statement of beliefs that \"a person can be Christian and gay, lesbian, bisexual, transgender or straight.\"\n\nThe Evangelical Network (TEN) was founded in 1988 by Fred Pattison, a Metropolitan Community Church (UFMCC) pastor who began networking within that denomination to find other Evangelical Christians. TEN originally was intended to be a network within the UFMCC, however, Pattison's church later chose to withdraw from the denomination and the focus of TEN changed to reaching independent Evangelical churches.\n\nPattison retired his presidency in 1997 and requested Todd Ferrell succeed him. Ferrell was serving as an Elder at Freedom on Christ Church, a TEN affiliate located in San Francisco, CA. He served for approximately 4 years, followed by a 4-year presidency under Ronnie Pigg (who succeeded Fred Pattison as pastor at the founding church). In 2004, the church affiliates of TEN voted in a new board with Todd Ferrell returning as president and Ferrell continued to successfully lead the organization until 2017 when David Thomas, pastor of Abundant Grace Church in Granite Falls, NC was chosen to take the leadership of the organization. \n\nIn addition to many years of conferences/gatherings, TEN has been also been active in social justice issues including:\n\nThe TEN Statement of Faith is similar in content to many mainstream Christian organizations, The organizations Statement of Faith states that they believe:\nWhile there are other LGBT affirming Christian organizations (such as The Gay Christian Network and The Reformation Project), TEN's embrace of Evangelicals and outreach specifically to the LGBTQ Evangelical community, makes it unique.\n\nEach year, The Evangelical Network hosts a conference including times of worship, keynote speakers, and workshops. The conference is held annually in a different US city generally during the summer months (as evidenced by their posted past conference dates and locations). Previous guests and speakers have included: Tony Campolo, Ray Boltz, Stan Mitchell, Marsha Stevens-Pino, Jay Bakker, Mark Tidd, and Kenny Bishop.\n\n"}
{"id": "42844812", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42844812", "title": "The Foundation Review", "text": "The Foundation Review\n\n\"The Foundation Review\" is a peer-reviewed academic journal that publishes articles for foundation staff. It covers evaluation results, tools, issues confronting the philanthropic sector, and reflective practice. The journal's editor in chief is Teri Behrens of Grand Valley State University. It was established in 2009 and is published by the Dorothy A. Johnson Center for Philanthropy.\n\n\"The Foundation Review\" article abstracts are included in these databases Scopus, ProQuest, Gale, and Emerging Sources Citation Index.\n\n"}
{"id": "22577814", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22577814", "title": "The Political Cesspool", "text": "The Political Cesspool\n\nThe Political Cesspool is a weekly far-right talk radio show founded by Tennessean political activist James Edwards and syndicated by the organizations Liberty News Radio Network and Accent Radio Network in the United States. First broadcast in October 2004 twice a week from radio station WMQM, per Edwards it has been simulcast on Stormfront Radio, a service of the white nationalist Stormfront website and as of 2011 is broadcast on Saturday nights on WLRM, a Christian radio station in Millington, Tennessee. Its sponsors include the white separatist Council of Conservative Citizens and the Institute for Historical Review, a Holocaust denial group.\n\nAccording to its statement of principles, the show stands for the \"Dispossessed Majority\" and represents \"a philosophy that is pro-White.\" It has attracted criticism—including from \"The Nation\", \"The New Republic\", the Stephen Roth Institute, the Southern Poverty Law Center (SPLC), and the Anti-Defamation League—for its promotion of anti-semitic, white nationalist and white supremacist views. According to the SPLC, the show has featured a \"Who's Who of the radical right\", including members of the Ku Klux Klan; they say Edwards has probably done more than anyone in America to promote neo-Nazis, Holocaust deniers and other extremists.\n\nThe show features Edwards and his co-hosts Keith Alexander, Bill Rolen, Winston Smith, and Eddie Miller, as well as producer Art Frith. Former staffers include Geoff Melton, Jess Bonds and co-founder Austin Farley. Its guests have included author Jerome Corsi, Minuteman Project leader Jim Gilchrist, former Constitution Party presidential candidate Michael Peroutka, actor Sonny Landham, British National Party leader Nick Griffin, Vermont secessionist Thomas Naylor, and paleoconservative activist Pat Buchanan. It is carried by at least three licensed terrestrial radio stations in the United States and on network feeds on the Galaxy 19 communications satellite.\n\nEdwards is a far-right political activist from Memphis, Tennessee, described by the Southern Poverty Law Center as a rising star of the modern white-nationalist movement. They write that he is articulate, charming, and at ease in front of the public, as well as in television and radio studios. He attended Briarcrest Christian School, a private school in Memphis, and in ninth grade transferred into a Christian-nationalist homeschooling program, a decision that he said led him into political activism. In 2000 he volunteered for Pat Buchanan's presidential campaign, and in 2002 ran unsuccessfully for the Tennessee House of Representatives. It was during this campaign that he met fellow activist Austin Farley, who was on the ballot against him. In October of that year, he and Farley established \"The Political Cesspool\".\n\nIn 2007, Edwards was part of a panel that appeared on CNN's \"Paula Zahn Now\", along with Roland S. Martin and Jesse Lee Peterson. The purpose was to discuss racial segregation in American cities. He told Zahn that white children should seek out those who share \"the same values and traditions and heroes,\" and that \"forced integration\" was a \"march toward totalitarianism.\" He said: \"Crime and violence follow African-Americans wherever they go, and if you think that is racist, then spend some time on the mean streets of south Memphis.\" Martin described his remarks as unfit for national television. Edwards made a second appearance on \"Paula Zahn Now\" in 2009, during which he said: \"Whites are in for the fight of their lives. America is becoming balkanized. We are being robbed of having a future in the very nation our ancestors carved from the wilderness.\"\n\nIn 2010, he became involved with a new party, the American Freedom Party, which advocates white nationalism and a form of economic nationalism known as the Third Position. Also in 2010 he self-published a book, \"Racism, Schmacism: How Liberals use the \"R\" Word to Push the Obama Agenda\", distributed by CreateSpace, a self-publishing printer.\n\nOther staff at \"The Political Cesspool\" include Bill Rolen, Eddie \"The Bombardier\" Miller, Keith Alexander, and Winston Smith. According to the show's website, most of the staff claim descent from Confederate soldiers. The show was initially broadcast on AM 1600 WMQM, a Memphis-based radio station, on Tuesdays and Thursdays. Edwards and Farley invited friends Bill Rolen, a board member of the Council of Conservative Citizens, and Jess Bonds as guest hosts, as well as radio technician Art Frith. Frith had previously worked for a number of other radio stations including American Forces Radio and Television Service (AFRTS) (in Keflavik, Iceland; Anchorage, Alaska; and Nea Makri, Greece), KFQD (in Anchorage), and WBCK (in Battle Creek, Michigan).\n\nIn 2005 the group moved to WMQM's Millington-based sister station, AM 1380 WLRM, and switched to a nightly schedule, Monday through Friday. Farley left the program in November of that year. Two years later, Geoff Melton, a former co-host, joined to help set up the show's website and the show entered syndication with Dixie Broadcasting Radio Network. The program went on hiatus on February 15, 2008, because staff members said they needed a break, but returned to the airwaves in June 2008 on WLRM on Saturday nights. One year later, it switched from Republic Broadcasting Network to Liberty News Radio Network. As of August 2009, Bonds and Melton are no longer affiliated with the program. Frith now lives in Nashville, Michigan, but remains a part of the show's staff. Since WLRM is not audited by Arbitron, the show's ratings are unknown. The show is listener-supported and, according to Edwards, receives more donations from Florida than from any other state.\n\n\"The Political Cesspool\" describes its philosophy as \"pro-White\" and \"against political centralization\". Its statement of principles, with material borrowed from the Council of Conservative Citizens, reads:\n\n\"The Political Cesspool\" has over the years featured many guest appearances, including political activists, Holocaust deniers, economists, and musicians. Former Tennessee gubernatorial candidate Carl \"Twofeathers\" Whitaker, who claims partial Native-American ancestry and is known for his strong support of the Minuteman movement, has appeared on the show, as has conservative Native-American activist David Yeagley. Filmmakers Merlin Miller (\"A Place to Grow\", \"Jericho\"), who is the 2012 presidential nominee of the American Freedom Party, and Craig Bodeker (\"A Conversation about Race\") have featured.\n\nAuthor Jerome Corsi was interviewed in July 2008. During the discussion he spoke about his financial newsletter, and promoted his book \"The Obama Nation\", which includes several statements that have been widely described as racist; for example, he opined that US President Barack Obama identifies more with his \"African blood\" than his American roots and that the President \"rejects everyone white, including his mother and his grandparents\". Corsi scheduled another promotional appearance on \"The Political Cesspool\", but one month later he canceled this appearance, citing \"travel plans that changed\". Edwards said that he believed the incident \"just goes to show what incredible pressure everyone in public life is under to never have anything to do with anyone who speaks up for the interests of white people.\" Fellow authors John Derbyshire and Steve Sailer have also been guests. In July 2011, WorldNetDaily columnist Ilana Mercer appeared on the show.\n\nConstitution Party nominee Michael Peroutka used his appearance in 2004 to promote his presidential campaign. Party member Michael Goza described the show as \"Christian/Constitutionalist\", and \"a great blessing to our cause\". Thomas Naylor, of the Vermont secessionist organization Second Vermont Republic, appeared on the show to celebrate Confederate History Month in April 2007, while American Freedom Party Chairman Bill Johnson appeared to promote his party.\n\nOn May 8, 2006, Minuteman Project leader Jim Gilchrist spoke on the program. Co-host Bill Rolen agreed with Gilchrist's view that illegal immigrants' intentions are to \"just squat here and plunder whatever social benefits our programs provide them\". However, Rolen disagreed with Gilchrist's claim that illegal immigration was \"the 21st century slave trade\". Gilchrist's colleague in the Minuteman movement, Chris Simcox, has also been a guest of the show.\n\nPaul Babeu, the sheriff of Pinal County, Arizona, appeared on \"The Political Cesspool\" on July 10, 2010 to discuss illegal immigration; during the interview, he referred to James Edwards as a \"great American\". Less than two weeks later, Babeu's spokesman issued an apology, saying that he had not researched the show thoroughly enough before scheduling the interview and that Babeu has a policy of not conducting interviews with hate groups. Babeu himself said that he was \"hoodwinked\" into appearing on the show and that he rejects \"any hate or bigotry\". Prior to the interview, cohost Eddie Miller said that \"Of all the people we’ve interviewed on this radio show, I would say the only people that came close to getting me this excited was Dr. David Duke.\" Following Babeu's spokesman's apology, Edwards alleged that Babeu was aware of the show's true ideology prior to appearing on the show, saying: \"For Sheriff Babeu to change his mind and now regret coming on our show, for whatever reason, is his right. For him to act as though he had no idea of our ideology is a lie.\" As a result of the controversy surrounding Babeu's appearance on the show, Arizona U.S. Senate candidate J. D. Hayworth asked his primary opponent, John McCain, to drop several campaign ads featuring McCain and Babeu. In 2011, another sheriff, Dennis Spruell of Montezuma County, Colorado, also apologized after appearing on the show without knowing its actual agenda.\n\nPaleoconservative activist and former presidential candidate Pat Buchanan has appeared twice as of 2011. In a June 2008 interview initiated and arranged by his publicist, he promoted his book \"Churchill, Hitler and the Unnecessary War\". During the broadcast, Buchanan defended Charles Lindbergh against charges of antisemitism, stating that his reputation \"has been blackened because of a single speech he gave and a couple of paragraphs in it where he said that ... the Jewish community is beating the drums for war but frankly, no one has said what he said was palpably untrue.\" At the end of the interview, James Edwards said, \"Mr. Buchanan, thank you so much for coming back on our program, for fighting for our people.\" Previously, in September 2006, Buchanan had made an appearance to promote his book \"State of Emergency\"; during this interview, he said that \"we are being invaded by people of different cultures\" and argued that Americans \"cannot survive a bifurcated culture or a heavily Hispanicized culture, tilted towards Mexico ... I think that's the beginning of the end of the United States.\"\nSelf-proclaimed \"racial realist\" Jared Taylor, whom James Edwards considers to be a close friend, has appeared on at least ten occasions. In an article he wrote for \"VDARE\", Taylor described the program as \"racially oriented\". Although describing itself as \"America First\", the show has also hosted foreign guests, including Croatian white nationalist Tomislav Sunić, Australian white nationalist Drew Fraser, Russian Austrian School economist Yuri N. Maltsev, British lawyer Adrian Davies, Canadian white supremacist Paul Fromm, Canadian conservative blogger Kathy Shaidle, and British National Party (BNP) leaders Simon Darby and Nick Griffin; Griffin appeared as a guest before and after his election to the European Parliament. During his post-election appearance, Griffin attributed the BNP's electoral successes to a fear of \"creeping process of Islamification\".\n\nActor Mel Gibson's father, Hutton Gibson, has also appeared on the show. During his appearance, he referred to Pope Benedict XVI as a \"homosexual\" and claimed that \"half the people in the Vatican are queer.\"\n\nThe show has frequently been criticised by anti-racist groups and individuals (such as the Southern Poverty Law Center (SPLC), Anti-Defamation League (ADL), Stephen Roth Institute, and journalist Max Blumenthal) over its stated ideology. \"The Political Cesspool\" was added to the Southern Poverty Law Center's hate group watch list in 2006. James Edwards was \"ecstatic\", saying \"I don't think you've arrived in the conservative movement until you've made it to the Southern Poverty Law Center's Hate Watch\". Edwards describes the SPLC as a group composed of \"communists and civil rights hustlers\". The SPLC's Hatewatch has referred to \"The Political Cesspool\" as \"an overtly racist, anti-Semitic radio show hosted by [a] self-avowed white nationalist\" and as \"the nexus of hate in America\". The Anti-Defamation League has also criticized the show; Edwards has attacked the ADL as \"America's most powerful hate group\" and has claimed that its definition of a \"neo-Nazi [is] any white person who disagrees with a Jew\".\n\nAuthor John Avlon, a former speechwriter for Rudy Giuliani, has described \"The Political Cesspool\" as \"avowedly white supremacist\".\nInvestigative journalist Max Blumenthal, who reported on an attempt by one of the show's staff to advertise at a rally for Republican vice-presidential candidate Sarah Palin, described \"The Political Cesspool\" as having a \"racist ideology\", and highlighted anti-Semitic, racist, and homophobic comments that Edwards had made on his blog. The Stephen Roth Institute has also commented on the show, noting that \"[James] Edwards openly espoused many of his guests' views and during speeches to extremist audiences, including members of the white supremacist Council of Conservative Citizens and the racist League of the South, he gained the support of a wide array of extremists.\" In an article about antisemitism in Belgium, the Institute commented on the show's interview with Filip Dewinter, a member of the Belgian Parliament and a leader of the extremist Vlaams Belang movement.\n\n\"Newsweek\" used one of Winston Smith's statements to argue that the rise in popularity of white nationalism and supremacy is due to the combination of the late-2000s recession and the election of a black president. Many such groups have been attempting to gain new recruits and increase their political influence by rebranding themselves as defenders of \"white heritage\" while de-emphasizing their dislike of minorities and Jews. Smith states, \"[t]he emphasis is different now. We don't talk as much about what blacks have done to us; we're more focused on ourselves and our own culture.\"\n\nIn 2005, the staff of \"The Political Cesspool\" organized a rally at the Tennessee area known as Confederate Park, which, along with two other Confederacy-themed parks in downtown Memphis, has been the subject of a longtime controversy for honoring Confederate soldiers and ideals. The park had been criticized earlier by a black Shelby County official, which attracted the notice of New York-based activist Al Sharpton, who was invited by the Reverend LaSimba Gray to hold a demonstration in Memphis. Sharpton planned a march called the Rally for Dignity from downtown Memphis to another park honoring Confederate Lieutenant General Nathan Bedford Forrest who was involved early in the organization of the Ku Klux Klan. Sharpton canceled the march after Edwards and \"The Political Cesspool\" staff obtained a permit to demonstrate in Confederate Park, located along Sharpton's planned march route.\n\nSharpton settled for a protest at Forrest Park. At the demonstration, he argued that \"We need to show the rest of the world that the day for honoring people like this is over\", and said in an interview that his objections were not related to race but to Forrest's Civil War-era (1861–1865) actions against the United States. Estimates of attendance at the rallies vary; according to the Southern Poverty Law Center, James Edwards attracted about 200 white counter-demonstrators to the Confederate Park vigil, while Sharpton's protest at Forrest Park attracted a few dozen black demonstrators, whom Edwards referred to as \"rabble\". The \"Memphis Flyer\" estimated that Sharpton attracted about 250 supporters. In the aftermath of the city park controversy, show affiliates Edwards, Farley, Bonds, and Rolen received the \"Dixie Defender Award\" from the Sons of Confederate Veterans.\n\nLater that year, Memphis city councilman E. C. Jones awarded Edwards and Farley with a certificate \"in appreciation of outstanding contributions to the community\". Edwards and Farley also received an honorary city council membership from Jones, who had previously appeared on \"The Political Cesspool\". According to \"The Commercial Appeal\", Jones had not listened to the show before the incident, and was unaware of its ideology. After a reporter informed him of the program's agenda, Jones initially refused to apologize. However, after another reporter confronted him with more details about the show's ideology, he changed his view, saying that he probably would not appear again. Carol Chumney, another member of the Memphis City Council, was also invited to appear on \"The Political Cesspool\", but ultimately declined the invitation after listening to an episode of the show; Chumney said, \"what I heard was about advocating for prostitution ... So I told them I had other commitments.\"\n\nIn an interview with the French newspaper \"Le Journal du Dimanche\", cohost Eddie \"Bombardier\" Miller described the United Nations as \"Satan on Earth\".\n\nIn 2016, Edwards co-hosted a Super Tuesday broadcast that interviewed Donald Trump Jr., the son of Republican party presidential candidate Donald Trump. Edwards praised the elder Trump and encouraged his supporters to vote for him.\n\nAs of 2011, \"The Political Cesspool\" airs on WLRM in Memphis, Tennessee, KHQN in Spanish Fork, Utah; and the Florida-based Accent Radio Network. The Accent Radio Network and KHQN air a shortened two-hour version of the show, in contrast to the three-hour Liberty News Radio Network (WLRM) version.\n\nARN and Liberty News Radio Network broadcasts their feeds on separate channels on the Galaxy 19 communications satellite.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26942281", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26942281", "title": "Women of Liberia Mass Action for Peace", "text": "Women of Liberia Mass Action for Peace\n\nWomen of Liberia Mass Action for Peace is a peace movement started in 2003 by women in Monrovia, Liberia, Africa, that\nworked to end the Second Liberian Civil War. Organized by Crystal Roh Gawding and social workers Leymah Gbowee and Comfort Freeman, the movement began despite Liberia having extremely limited civil rights. Thousands of Muslim and Christian women from various classes mobilized their efforts, staged silent nonviolence protests that included a sex strike and the threat of a curse.\n\nIt was underneath Doe's rule that ones tribal identity determined how they were treated. Doe favored those who shared in his Krhan tribal identity. If someone was indigenous or poor, they were looked down upon by his cabinet and supporters. Signs of war was vastly rising. However, the indigenous were unable to flee the country because of lack of funds. This division led to the start of a long, bloody civil war. During the Liberian Civil War, the reality of women's lives went unreported. Gbowee mentioned some of their roles involved hiding their husbands and sons from soldiers looking to recruit or kill them, walking miles to find food and water for their families, and ultimately how they kept life going so that there would be something left to build on when peace returned. And after gaining power in a military coup in 1989, President Charles Taylor struggled to keep control over the country. Due to the start of tribal identities mattering during Doe's reign, Liberia was now a country divided by rebel factions. Both the rebels and Taylor's administration enforced severe harassment and violence on the people of Liberia. 2003 marked the fourteenth year of the bloody civil war. Many Liberians were displaced, and up to 250,000 lives were taken. With men being the primary participants of war, the women were the individuals that carried the burden of the wars impact. \nDuring the years of warfare, Liberian women \"had to endure the pain of watching their young sons be forcibly recruited into the army. A few days later these young men would come back into the same village, drugged up, and were made to execute their own family members. Women had to bear the pain of seeing their young daughters…be used as sex slaves at night and as fighters during the day…women had to sit by and watch their husbands, their fathers be taken away. In most instances these men were hacked to pieces.\" Unable to tolerate any more fighting or killing, a small group of Liberian women made a decision that would eventually change the country. These women released a campaign that called for non-violence and peace. Their leader, Leymah Gbowee, stated that they would \"take the destiny of Liberia into their own hands,\" declaring that \"in the past they were silent, but after being killed, raped, dehumanized, and infected with diseases, war has taught them that the future lies in saying no to violence and yes to peace.\" \n\nIn 2003 during the Second Liberian Civil War, Women of Liberia Mass Action for Peace forced a meeting with President Charles Taylor and extracted a promise from him to attend peace talks in Ghana to negotiate with the rebels from Liberians United for Reconciliation and Democracy and Movement for Democracy in Liberia. A delegation of Liberian women went to Ghana to continue to apply pressure on the warring factions during the peace process.\n\nTwo hundred women surrounded the room, dressed in white, dominating the conversation. Any time the negotiators tried to leave, the women threatened to take off all of their clothes. Enclosed in the room with the women, the men would try to jump out of the windows to escape their talk. But the women persisted, staging a sit in outside of the Presidential Palace. They blocked all the doors and windows and prevented anyone from leaving the peace talks without a resolution.\n\nThe women of Liberia became a political force against violence and against their government. Their actions brought about an agreement during the stalled peace talks. As a result, the women were able to achieve peace in Liberia after a 14-year civil war and later helped bring to power the country's first female head of state, Ellen Johnson Sirleaf. When President Ellen Sirleaf first came into office, she made women's rights one of her priorities. Her administration focused on the condition of women in Liberia and their needs. Some of the changes she made involved: putting more women in office, establishing the Women's Legislative Caucus, a multiparty committee in the House of Representatives that ensures a gender-sensitive approach to the legislature, and creating The Inheritance Act, an act that made rights of inheritance for spouses of statutory and customary marriages. Underneath President Sirleaf, rape, a prominent weapon of war, was also made punishable with a maximum sentence of life in prison.\n\nCrystal Roh Gawding, President of St.Peter's Lutheran Church Women and Comfort Freeman, National President for All of the Women of Lutheran Church in Liberia, presidents of two different Lutheran churches, organized the Women in Peacebuilding Network (WIPNET), and issued a statement of intent: \"In the past we were silent, but after being killed, raped, dehumanized, and infected with diseases, and watching our children and families destroyed, war has taught us that the future lies in saying NO to violence and YES to peace! We will not relent until peace prevails.\" Thousands of local women prayed and sang in a fish market daily for months.\n\nAsatu Bah Kenneth, Assistant Minister for Administration and Public Safety of the Liberian Ministry of Justice, was president of the Liberia Female Law Enforcement Association at the time. Inspired by the work of the Christian women's peace initiative, she formed the Liberian Muslim Women's Organization to work for peace.\n\nTogether, Gbowee, Freeman and Kenneth brought both groups together to form the Mass Action, a rare thing to happen in Liberia. Since they were brought together, relations have been less tense and more open between Christians and Muslims in Liberia, specifically Monrovia.\n\nThe Christian and Muslim women joined forces to create Women of Liberia Mass Action for Peace. They wore white, to symbolize peace.\n\nFor her leadership, Leymah Gbowee has received international recognition, including the 2009 John F. Kennedy Profile in Courage Award and the 2011 Nobel Peace Prize.\n\nEllen Johnson Sirleaf, The president of Liberia during the duration of the Mass Action for Peace. She often promoted women's rights and promised to increase women's rights in her two campaigns for presidency. She inspired many Liberian women to push for mass movement in order to obtain peace in the country.\n\nSince the adoption of the United Nations Security Council Resolution 1325 in 2000, women have been engaged in rebuilding war-torn societies, restoring relationships and promoting social cohesion. Women Peace and Security Network — Africa (WIPSEN-Africa), is a women-focused, women-led Pan-African Non-Governmental Organization based in Ghana. It was established on May 8, 2006 to promote women's strategic participation and leadership in peace and security governance in Africa.\n\nLeymah Gbowee is the founding member, and served as Executive Director until 2012. The organization has a presence in Ghana, Nigeria, Ivory Coast, Liberia and Sierra Leone.\n\n\n\n\"Pray the Devil Back to Hell\" is a documentary film directed by Gini Reticker and produced by Abigail Disney. The film premiered at the 2008 Tribeca Film Festival, where it won the award for Best Documentary. The film documents the efforts of Women of Liberia Mass Action for Peace. The film has been used as an advocacy tool in post-conflict zones like Sudan and Zimbabwe, mobilizing African women to petition for peace and security.\n\n\nGeneral:\n\n"}
