{"id": "53145906", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53145906", "title": "15th National Geographic Bee", "text": "15th National Geographic Bee\n\nThe 15th National Geographic Bee was held in Washington, D.C. on May 21, 2003, sponsored by the National Geographic Society and ING. The final competition was moderated by Jeopardy! host Alex Trebek. The winner was James Williams, a homeschooled student from Vancouver, Washington, who won a $25,000 college scholarship, lifetime membership in the National Geographic Society, and a trip to a Busch Gardens/Sea World Adventure Camp. The 2nd-place winner, Dallas Simons of Martin Luther King Magnet School in Nashville, Tennessee, won a $15,000 scholarship. The 3rd-place winner, Sean Rao of St. Gabriel School in Hubertus, Wisconsin, won a $10,000 scholarship.\n\n"}
{"id": "9483845", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9483845", "title": "Academic Matters", "text": "Academic Matters\n\nAcademic Matters: The Journal of Higher Education is a Canadian magazine which publishes articles on issues of relevance to postsecondary education in Canada and internationally, as well as literature and film reviews, original fiction, research notes and commentaries. The magazine's mandate is to be a forum for original, thoughtful and engaging discussion of current trends in higher education and consideration of academe's future direction.\n\n\"Academic Matters\" was launched in November 2005 to fill a critical need in the Canadian media coverage of universities. The idea for the magazine came from the recognition that while universities are influential in many ways, there was no independent Canadian journal that examined university issues in a serious but accessible and visually engaging manner for both academics and the general public.\n\nPublished by the Ontario Confederation of University Faculty Associations, \"Academic Matters\" has a circulation of 17,000 readers, including professors, academic librarians and others interested in higher education issues across Canada. The magazine's editorial board consists of highly regarded academics and journalists who have worked at \"The Globe and Mail\", Canadian Broadcasting Centre, National Film Board of Canada, and \"The New York Times\".\n\nA bi-annual publication, the thematic issues of \"Academic Matters\" have included the education \"arms race\" and public perceptions of higher education; \"Generation Next\" – the new wave of faculty now entering universities; threats to academic freedom in Canada, the United States, United Kingdom and Australia; the impact of technology on universities; and diversity and equity on university campuses.\n\nArticles in \"Academic Matters\" have been picked up by media in both the United States and Canada, including \"The Chronicle of Higher Education\", \"The Globe and Mail\", \"National Post,\" and \"Toronto Star\".\n\nAcademics, journalists and novelists who have contributed to \"Academic Matters\" include Michael Ignatieff, Carl Wieman, Camilla Gibb, David Foot, George Elliott Clarke, Richard Lipsey, Lee Gowan, Kim Echlin, Eric Wright, Judy Rebick, David Suzuki, and Mark Kingwell.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17757158", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17757158", "title": "Academic grading in Slovenia", "text": "Academic grading in Slovenia\n\nSlovenia inherited the academic grading system of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. A five-point grading scale is used in primary and secondary schools:\n\n\nMany teachers use minus and plus symbols as grade modifiers. For example, \"−5\" denotes a grade slightly lower than \"excellent\", while \"+4\" denotes a grade slightly higher than \"very good\". Half-grades such as \"4/5\" are also used. However, these modifiers are unofficial and do not appear in final grade reports.\n\nIn universities, a six-level grading scale is used:\n\n"}
{"id": "49655286", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49655286", "title": "Alberto Massavanhane", "text": "Alberto Massavanhane\n\nAlberto Massavanhane ( – ) was a Mozambican diplomat, teacher, and the first Mayor of Maputo. After the signing of Lusaka Accord, in 1974, Massavanhane was nominated by Frelimo as Mayor of Lourenço Marques during the transition government, becoming the first Mozambican to be President of the Executive Council of Maputo after Independence of Mozambique in 1975. In 1983 Alberto Massavanhane was again called to be the head of Maputo local government, before being designated as Ambassador of Mozambique in the Kingdom of Sweden from 1988 until his death in 1993.\n\nAlberto was born in Xai-Xai in February 9, 1930, district capital of Gaza, being the youngest of the three sons of Massavanhane Nhancume and his wife Chonipane, a family of small farmers and shepherds. By the age of 13 he went to live to Lourenço Marques, taking up his education in the Christian Mission of Magude. By the age of 20 in the same Magude Mission, he contacted religious marriage with Rosa Paulo Chadraca.\n\nSubversive to the Portuguese colonialist regime, Alberto was the teacher of future Mozambican Prime-Minister and President Joaquim Chissano. Both locally, as a Mozambican teacher, and internationally as an African head of local government he always continued to have a role in the fight against colonialism.\n\nAfter Mozambique's Independence Massavanhane became the first black, Mozambican, Mayor of Maputo serving two terms, the first from 1974 (before the Declaration of Independence) until 1980, and the second term from 1983 to 1988.\n\nDuring his second term he developed several actions concerting Maputo with international institutions and strategies. In 1985 he was very involved in fighting the malaria epidemics in Maputo, alongside other African nations and governments. Also in 1985, along with Lisbon's Mayor Nuno Kruz Abecassis, Massavanhane had a pivotal role in the constitution of UCCLA (União das Cidades Capitais Luso-Afro-Américo-Asiáticas) the precursor of CPLP.\n\nIn 1988 Alberto Massavanhane was designated plenipotentiary Ambassador of the Republic of Mozambique to the Kingdom of Sweden, with embassy in Stockholm.\n"}
{"id": "7603461", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7603461", "title": "Allan Campbell (biologist)", "text": "Allan Campbell (biologist)\n\nAllan M. Campbell (April 27, 1929 – April 19, 2018) was an American microbiologist and geneticist whose pioneering work on Lambda phage has helped advance molecular biology in the late 20th century.\n\nDr. Campbell has been a professor of in the Department of Biology at Stanford University since 1968, and he was appointed to the Barbara Kimball Browning endowed chair in 1992.\nCampbell earned his bachelor's degree at the University of California-Berkeley and master's and doctoral degrees from the University of Illinois. He is a member of the National Academy of Sciences and a fellow of the American Academy of Microbiology, the American Association for the Advancement of Science and the American Academy of Arts and Sciences.\n\nDr. Campbell received the 2004 Abbott-ASM Lifetime Achievement Award from the American Society for Microbiology at the society's 104th general meeting in New Orleans on Monday, May 24, 2004. Campbell delivered the Abbott-ASM Award Lecture and was honored at a dinner ceremony that evening. The award includes a $20,000 cash prize and a commemorative piece.\n\nIn honoring Campbell, ASM officials cited his \"exceptional insights and achievements in the field of molecular genetics - a career of groundbreaking research that has had a profound influence on several fields, including molecular cloning and gene therapy.\"\n\nDr. Campbell's research has concentrated on the genetics of bacteria and their viruses, especially the integration of viral DNA into host chromosomes.\n\nHis most prominent discovery was the proposal of the “Campbell model” of virus insertion, where viral DNA is inserted into the host chromosome, becoming covalently bonded to the bacterial DNA, and then remains dormant until activation. Dr. Campbell’s research was focused on a specific bacterial virus, phage lambda, and its host bacterium E. coli, but the model provided insights into how extrachromosomal DNA can be inserted and excised in other organisms.\n\nThis model was proposed in the book “Episomes’ published in 1968, which was one of the first comprehensive treatments of plasmid biology.\n\nWhile study of the regulation of integration and excision of phage lambda in E coli has been a primary focus of his research, Dr. Campbell and research associates also studied regulation and expression of E coli genes linked to the lambda insertion location, including the biotin (bio) and galactose (gal) genes.\n\nEarly studies on bacterial viruses began after the discovery by Twort and d’Herelle of ‘filterable agents’ which were able to destroy bacteria. These were demonstrated by creating a lawn of bacteria on appropriate media, mixing with these ‘filterable agents’ and then observing areas of destroyed cells seen as cleared circular areas (plaques) on the lawn. These plaques were interpreted as the result of a single agent infecting a bacterial cell, reproducing in the cell and then bursting open to infect surrounding cells, repeating the process until a clear circular area of destroyed cells becomes visible to the unaided eye. These filterable agents were named bacteriophages (eaters of bacteria) or phage for short.\n\nThe 1940s produced the first pictures of bacterial viruses using electron microscopy produced the first photos of bacterial viruses, and research on the mechanism of infection and reproduction dramatically increased. One of the focal points of this research was Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory on Long Island, where a ‘phage group’ led by Salvador Luria, Max Delbrück, Alfred Hershey and others met in the summers for research and training of new investigators.\n\nIn 1951 Esther Lederberg discovered lambda phage, which had an unusual characteristic. While lambda could infect and reproduce in some strains of its host bacterium E. coli, other strains seemed immune to infection. However, when the immune strains were mixed with non-immune strains, occasionally lambda phage could be observed infecting the non-immune strains. Further research suggested that the immune strains contained a dormant copy of the lambda genome which protected it from infection, but that dormant copy could be activated into the active viral state to begin a new round of infection. This dormant phase was called the ‘lysogenic’ state and the actively infectious state was called the ‘lytic’ state. The dormant form of the lambda genome was called the ‘prophage’\n\nStudy of phage lambda over the next 50 years provided valuable insights into virus life cycles, the regulation and expression of genetic material, and the mechanism of integration and excision of genetic material into chromosomal locations.\n\nAllan Campbell’s contribution to the field with the ‘Campbell model’ of integration and excision marked a major step forward in the understanding of this process.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28274318", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28274318", "title": "Allowed to keep terms", "text": "Allowed to keep terms\n\nAllowed to keep terms (ATKT) is a process in the Indian education system to allow students of pre-graduation and graduation to study in the next grade if they have failed in 1 to 4 subjects. The students must pass the papers they failed before entering into the next grade. For example, if a first-year bachelor's degree student fails to get passing marks in his four subjects, the student must pass those subjects before entering the third year, while the student can study in second year. It has backronyms like \"Tried and Keep trying.\"\nThe ATKT system has been criticized, mainly by teachers:\nThe most notable/notorious form of ATKT or failure in examinations is in the Engineering Colleges in India.Some students have a backlog of more 10 ATKTs in a academic year.to protest this large volume of ATKTs,they assemble in the Mumbai University campus and demand for the ATKT rule to be increased so that they may be promoted to the next academic year in spite of having many ATKTs.\n"}
{"id": "5488986", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5488986", "title": "Alphabetic principle", "text": "Alphabetic principle\n\nAccording to the alphabetic principle, letters and combinations of letters are the symbols used to represent the speech sounds of a language based on systematic and predictable relationships between written letters, symbols, and spoken words. The alphabetic principle is the foundation of any alphabetic writing system (such as the English variety of the Roman alphabet), which is one of the more common types of writing systems in use today.\n\nAlphabetic writing systems that use an (in practice) almost perfectly phonemic orthography have a single letter for each individual speech sound and a one-to-one correspondence between sounds and the letters that represent them. Such systems are used, for example, in the modern languages Serbian (arguably, an example of perfect phonemic orthography), Macedonian, Estonian, Finnish, Italian, Romanian, Spanish, Georgian, Hungarian and Turkish. Such languages have a straightforward spelling system, enabling a writer to predict the spelling of a word given its pronunciation and similarly enabling a reader to predict the pronunciation of a word given its spelling. Ancient languages with such almost perfectly phonemic writing systems include Avestic, Latin, Tamil, Vedic, and Sanskrit (Devanāgarī— an abugida; see Vyakarana). On the other hand, French and English have a strong difference between sounds and symbols.\n\nThe alphabetic principle does not underlie logographic writing systems like Chinese or syllabic writing systems such as Japanese kana. Korean, along with Chinese and Japanese, is a member of the CJK group and shares origins for many of the symbols. Hangul, the Korean writing system, is actually strongly alphabetic while it may look logographic or syllabic to outsiders.\n\nMost orthographies that use the Latin writing system are imperfectly phonological and diverge from that ideal to a greater or lesser extent. This is because the ancient Romans designed the alphabet specifically for Latin. In the Middle Ages, it was adapted to the Romance languages, the direct descendants of Latin, as well as to the Celtic, Germanic, Baltic, and some Slavic languages, and finally to most of the languages of Europe.\n\nEnglish orthography is based on the alphabetic principle, but the acquisition of sounds and spellings from a variety of languages has made English spelling patterns confusing. Spelling patterns usually follow certain conventions but nearly every sound can be legitimately spelled with different letters or letter combinations. For example, the letters \"ee\" almost always represent , but the sound can also be represented by the letter \"y\" or the letters \"ie\".\n\nThe spelling systems for some languages, such as Spanish, are relatively simple because they adhere closely to the ideal one-to-one correspondence between sounds and the letter patterns that represent them. In English the spelling system is more complex and varies considerably in the degree to which it follows the stated pattern. There are several reasons for this, including: first, the alphabet has 26 letters, but the English language has 40 sounds that must be reflected in word spellings; second, English spelling began to be standardized in the 15th century, and most spellings have not been revised to reflect the long-term changes in pronunciation that are typical for all languages; and third, English frequently adopts foreign words without changing the spelling of those words.\n\nLearning the connection between written letters and spoken sounds has been viewed as a critical heuristic to word identification for decades. Understanding that there is a direct relationship between letters and sounds enables an emergent reader to decode the pronunciation of an unknown written word and associate it with a known spoken word. Typically, emergent readers identify the majority of unfamiliar printed words by sounding them out. Similarly, understanding the relationship of letters and sounds is also seen as a critical heuristic for learning to spell.\n\nTwo contrasting philosophies exist with regard to emergent readers learning to associate letters to speech sounds in English. Proponents of phonics argue that this relationship needs to be taught explicitly and to be learned to automaticity, in order to facilitate the rapid word recognition upon which comprehension depends. \nOthers, including advocates of whole-language who hold that reading should be taught holistically, assert that children can naturally intuit the relationship between letters and sounds.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29788325", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29788325", "title": "Anna Pessiak-Schmerling", "text": "Anna Pessiak-Schmerling\n\nAnna Pessiak-Schmerling (1834 – 14 March 1896) was an Austrian composer born in Vienna.\n\nShe was born Anna Schmerling, daughter of Maria Anna Giannatasio del Río (1792-1868), and the granddaughter of Cajetan Giannatasio del Río (1764-1828) who had a boarding school in Vienna. She studied with Mathilde Marchesi (1821-1913), and afterward worked as a professor of voice at the Vienna Conservatory. She composed piano work and songs, and was noted for her masses and other sacred works.\n\nBeethoven wrote the \"Hochzeitslied\" (\"Wedding Song\") for the wedding of Anna's mother to Leopold Schmerling in 1819. The Giannatasio del Rio family was associated with Beethoven through his nephew Karl, and Franziska (Fanny) Giannatasio del Río, Anna Pessiak-Schmerling's aunt, was a source for biographical detail on the composer. According to her, Beethoven wrote the song \"Ruf vom Berge\" for Anna's mother during an excursion to Himmel.\n"}
{"id": "27743527", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27743527", "title": "Arthur Stein", "text": "Arthur Stein\n\nArthur Asher Stein (born November 19, 1950) is a Professor of Political Science at the University of California, Los Angeles.\n\nSpecialising in issues such as ethnic conflict, terrorism, economic relations, and global governance, Stein has served on the editorial boards of \"International Organization\", the \"American Journal of Political Science\", and \"International Interactions\" and was a member of the Statewide Steering Committee for the Institute for Global Conflict and Cooperation. He is currently an Editor of the \"American Political Science Review\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49254217", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49254217", "title": "Auto-Latex Equations", "text": "Auto-Latex Equations\n\nAuto-Latex Equations is a Google Docs add-on that allows any Google Docs user to type mathematical equations inside their documents. Auto-Latex Equations uses MathJax and LaTeX-style syntax and functions similar to the Art of Problem Solving math typesetting. It can be downloaded from the Google Docs Add-on Store for free here.\n\nThe first version of Auto-Latex Equations was released in 2015. The original programmer, designer, and marketer of Auto-Latex Equations is Aayush Gupta, a student in the Bay Area.\n\nAuto-Latex Equations is used by teachers, professors, and students worldwide. Due to its free status and integration with Google Docs, it has become a standard in school districts worldwide. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "3816492", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3816492", "title": "Bernard Weiner", "text": "Bernard Weiner\n\nBernard Weiner (born 1935) is an American social psychologist known for developing a form of attribution theory which explains the emotional and motivational entailments of academic success and failure. Bernard Weiner got interested in the field of attribution after the first studying achievement motivation. He used TAT to identify differences in people’s achievement needs and then turned to the study of individual issues people face when they think of their own successes and failures. One of his students, Linda Beckman, came up with this topic, and from then on, Bernard Weiner carried on further investigation which led him to a road of the cognitive processes that have motivational influence. Being a three-stage process, attribution theory explains the causes of an event or behavior. The three stages include observations and determination of behavior, and attributing to causes. There are two types of attributions; external and internal. External attribution relates causality to outside agents, whereas, internal attribution assigns the person himself for any behavior. In one of his interviews in 1996, Bernard Weiner was asked the following: \"How does attribution contribute to high ability, high achievement, and giftedness?\" His answer is the proceeding paragraph.\nThere are two perspectives to consider: self-perception and the perception\nof others. Certain attributions are maladaptive in that they are\nlikely to reduce achievement strivings. Among these are attributions of failure\nto lack of ability, which produce low expectancies of future success\n(tied to the stability dimension of causality), low self-esteem (linked with\nthe locus dimension), and humiliation and shame (because these are perceived\nas uncontrollable). On the other hand, failure ascribed to insufficient\neffort results in maintenance of expectancy of success and guilt, both motivators.\nContinuing commerce with the task increases specific ability (which\nis unstable, as opposed to underlying \"intelligence\" which is perceived as\nstable). Thus, by influencing task persistence, attributions also influence actual\ntask ability.\nThe same is true from the perspective of others. If I ascribe your failure\nto low ability, then I (as teacher) offer sympathy, do not punish for\nfailure, and give unsolicited help. All these are cues that you \"cannot,\"\nwhich starts the cycle indicated above. So other-perception and self-perception\nform a unity, together, which influence task persistence and, therefore,\nactual ability. Some of this is captured in the false-expectancy\nliterature.\nA product of Chicago's public schools, he received his\nundergraduate degree in Liberal Arts from the University of Chicago\nin 1955 and an MBA, majoring in Industrial Relations, from the same university in 1957.\nFollowing two years of service in the U.S. Army, Weiner enrolled in a PhD program in\npersonality at the University of Michigan, where he was mentored by John Atkinson, one of the leading personality and motivational psychologists of that era. Weiner completed his PhD from Michigan in 1963, spent two years as an assistant professor at the University of Minnesota before joining the psychology faculty at the University of California at Los Angeles (UCLA) in 1965, where he remained active into the early 2000s.\n\nWeiner has published 15 books and many articles on the psychology of motivation and emotion, and has been a Professor at the University of California, Los Angeles for many years. His contributions including linking attribution theory, the psychology of motivation, and emotion. He is the author of An Attributional Theory of Motivation and Emotion. For example, he believes that throughout education, we all have similar psychodynamics in the classroom; students tend to seek explanation for personal failure. He is the father of Mark Weiner, a professor of law at Rutgers School of Law–Newark. Bernard raised the question on what is considered \"sin\" and what is \"sickness.\" The construals he gave surrounded obesity: obesity due to overeating is a sin; obesity because of a thyroid problem is a sickness. Bernard hoped that these type of scenarios would help him come up with a general theory of social conduct.\n\nFor over 30 years, the fields of personality and social psychology have been influenced by the work of Bernard Weiner. His attribution theory of motivation and emotions has contributed greatly to the educational psychologist's understanding of how perceived causation influences motivation, behavior, and emotions. This theory has been applied to a wide \nrange of topics and has been supported by numerous empirical studies.c Today, Dr. Weiner can be reached at the University of California, Los Angeles, Psychology Department, Franz Hall, Los Angeles, California 90024, where he continues his work on the attribution theory and motivation.\n\nProfessor Weiner's primary research interests are Social Cognition, Helping, Prosocial Behaviour, Judgment and Decision Making, Motivation, Goal Setting, Causal Attribution, Law and Public Policy, Interpersonal Processes and Emotion, Mood, Affect.\n\n"}
{"id": "55901310", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55901310", "title": "Brendan Maher (psychologist)", "text": "Brendan Maher (psychologist)\n\nBrendan Arnold Maher (31 October 1924 - 17 March 2009) was a psychology professor at Harvard University who pioneered the scientific study of psychology in the laboratory, and laid the groundwork for the study of psychology and its relationship to genetics. Maher was most interested in human psychopathology, especially schizophrenia. One of his major contributions was to introduce laboratory experimentation strategies to research of this mental illness. Maher also mentored many students through their own research projects at Harvard, Ohio State University, Northwestern University, Louisiana State University, University of Wisconsin, and Brandeis University, where he served as Dean of the Faculty.\n\n"}
{"id": "3710275", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3710275", "title": "Brian L. DeMarco", "text": "Brian L. DeMarco\n\nBrian L. DeMarco is a physicist and Professor of Physics at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. In 2005 he placed first in the quantum physics portion of the \"Amazing Light\" competition honoring Charles Townes, winner of the 1964 Nobel Prize in Physics. DeMarco is currently conducting experiments in quantum simulation.\n\nDeMarco earned a bachelor's degree in physics from the State University of New York at Geneseo in 1996. He then earned a PhD in physics from the University of Colorado at Boulder in 2001. As a graduate student, DeMarco worked with Deborah S. Jin to create the first true Fermionic condensate. The journal \"Science\" selected this achievement as one of the top ten scientific discoveries of 1999.\n\nFrom 2001–2003, DeMarco was a postdoctoral research fellow at the National Institute of Standards and Technology (Boulder), working on quantum computing experiments with trapped atomic ions. He joined the Department of Physics at the University of Illinois in 2003.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45062364", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45062364", "title": "Brock Environmental Center", "text": "Brock Environmental Center\n\nThe Chesapeake Bay Foundation's (CBF) Brock Environmental Center is located on the banks of the Lynnhaven River in Virginia Beach, Virginia. It is designed to meet the highest environmental standards in accordance with The U.S. Green Building Council's Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design and the Living Building Challenge. Home to CBF's Hampton Roads staff and local conservation group, Lynnhaven River NOW, the Brock Center will benefit the larger public with spaces indoors and out for community and student groups.\n\nPleasure House Point is a 118-acre peninsula on the Lynnhaven River in Virginia Beach at the mouth of the Chesapeake Bay. Developers purchased the land and planned to build \"Indigo Dunes,\" a development of more than 1,100 new high-rise condos and townhouses. When the housing market collapsed in 2008, the building plans came to a halt, and the bank foreclosed on the property.\n\nIn 2012, The Chesapeake Bay Foundation partnered with the City of Virginia Beach, the Trust for Public Land, and the local community to buy Pleasure House Point for $13 million, preserving it for recreation and education.\n\nThe Chesapeake Bay Foundation bought a small corner of the property to build the Brock Environmental Center. The building takes its name from Virginia Beach philanthropist Dollar Tree founder Macon Brock and his wife Joan.\n\nThe Living Building Challenge is the highest standard of certification for energy efficient, environmentally smart design and construction. The Challenge is composed of seven performance categories called Petals: Place, Water, Energy, Health and Happiness, Materials, Equity, and Beauty.\n\nThe Chesapeake Bay Foundation expects that the center will be LEED-Platinum certified and that it will meet the Living Building Challenge certification. This rare designation means the building has a net-zero impact on the environment even after a full year of operation.\n\nRooftop photo-voltaic panels produce approximately 60 percent of the Brock Environmental Center’s energy needs. Two residential-scale 10-kilowatt wind turbines provide the additional 40 percent of energy. Geothermal wells are used to take advantage of the earth's constant 54-degree temperature by exchanging heat with a recirculated fluid that is sent down a closed loop located 300 feet below the surface after which the fluid sent back up to the surface to warm the building air in the winter and cool the building air in the summer before sent down the earth again. The treated air is circulate through the building with a high-efficiency HVAC.\n\nAs a result of other energy efficient and conservation design elements, the building uses 80% less energy than a typical building its size.\n\nThe building is positioned to receive maximum southern exposure for warmth and to receive natural ventilation from the prevailing winds. Exterior walls, floors, and roof insulation are designed to reduce energy demands by maximizing the building’s insulation.\n\nTwo 1,600-gallon (6,056-liter) rain cisterns and a filtering system make the Brock Environmental Center the first project in the United States to receive a commercial permit for drinking filtered rainwater. The commercial permit was given in accordance with the federal drinking water requirements.\n\nThe toilets are composting waterless units that turn human waste into usable organic material. Rain gardens will capture and filter extra runoff, and a special graywater garden will cleanse graywater (wastewater generated from sinks and showers).\n\nTo meet the Living Building Challenge, designers did not use any “Red List” materials that include chemicals and materials considered harmful to humans and the environment. Materials and chemicals listed on the Living Building Challenge’s Red List include polyvinyl chloride (PVC) and halogenated flame retardants, among others.\n\nThe builders also worked with the community to use reclaimed and salvaged materials such as sinks, doors, mirrors, counters, cabinets, floor boards, used bike racks, student art tables, and old wood paneling. Supplies came from sources throughout the community including old office buildings, school houses, and a local parks department.\n\nThe Brock Environmental Center is home base for the Chesapeake Bay Foundation’s outdoor field education program serving Hampton Roads students and teachers. According to CBF \"Our courses combine many academic disciplines – earth science, biology, history, art, English/writing, math, chemistry, civics, economics, government, and responsible citizenship. As a result, students become exceptionally informed and inspired, valuing the bay and its watershed as a living, connected system.\" Pleasure House Point is an active demonstration site for important and relevant restoration projects, including oyster, wetland, and other habitat restoration, as well as water quality improvement initiatives. By engaging in outdoor educational experiences in natural areas and on waterways, program participants can better understand the Chesapeake Bay.\n\nThe Brock Center contains a large conference room and smaller meeting spaces available for community meetings, discussions, and collaboration.\n\n"}
{"id": "30932259", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30932259", "title": "Catholic University of Colombia", "text": "Catholic University of Colombia\n\nThe Catholic University of Colombia is a private institution of higher education. It was founded in Bogotá, Colombia in 1970, notable in its early loyalty to Catholic church doctrine. The institution now has 10,300 undergraduates. The university has three campuses in the city of Bogota, a school, a language school, and a university campus in addition to being an office setting for students in Bogotá. It gives technical and technological careers (in Chia, a town near Bogota). The three most important sites are in Bogota, Chapinero, and Teusaquillo — characterized by their historical and cultural value. Its entire campus distributed in such sites totals about 77.000m2 with 44.000 m2 of buildings and 33,000 m2 for building.\n\nAfter 40 years, the Catholic University of Colombia is one of the most representative universities in the country and is known for its Catholic doctrine in much of Latin America.\n\nThe Universidad Catolica de Colombia offers eight undergraduate programs. It has approximately 11.000 students.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34482651", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34482651", "title": "Diplôme d'études universitaires générales", "text": "Diplôme d'études universitaires générales\n\nThe Diplôme d'études universitaires générales (French for \"General Academic Studies Degree\"), abbreviated DEUG, was a French national degree. It was delivered between 1973 and the (implemented between 2003 and 2006 depending on the university) by universities one year before the license (roughly equivalent to Associate degree).\n\nThe DEUG was created in 1973 by the government department of Joseph Fontanet, and replaces the various diplomas and undergraduate studies in each faculty: the general legal diploma, the general economic diploma, the degree of literary studies and the degree of scientific studies.\nAccording to the decree of creation, the DEUG \"sanctions a multidisciplinary undergraduate general education and guidance\", \"lessons aim to develop in students the skills and knowledge to: the expression and realization ; understanding of the contemporary world, the study and use of concepts and scientific methods\". Regarding the opportunities of this degree, \"the lessons are organized to allow students who are studying to be admitted to a graduate or graduate, or at another university, students who do not pursue can directly enter the workforce\". The courses leading to this degree span two years and only one time twice a year is normally permitted.\nOrders of 1 March 1973 set the agenda of the general university degree in six mentions: law, economics, economic and social administration, humanities (with sections philosophy, sociology, psychology, history and geography), science (sections: science and structures of matter, the natural sciences and life). Educational programs include 50 to 60% of required courses defined by national laws for each section and mention, they also have at least 5% of modern language teaching and 30 to 40% over the choice of universities with 10 to 20% of courses from outside the section or the main entry to the choice of students, such as \"sociology and social psychology\" for students of the word \"science\". According to the statements, the total minimum teaching for this degree is 700 to 1100 hours.\n\nBetween 1993 and 1997, the DEUG was governed by the decree of 26 May 1992. This applies from the start of 1993 (Reform Jospin).\nThis DEUG was open to any holder of Baccalauréat or equivalent. It was organized in two levels. The lessons are grouped by modules. The first year included a tutorial. Universities should organize two examination sessions per year.\nOnly three annual entrants were allowed to graduate unless exceptions.\nStudents of \"institut universitaire professionnalisé\" also received a DEUG at the end of their first year.\nThe DEUG included ten areas:\n\nThe DEUG science and technology of sport and physical activity in which the program is determined by \"arrêté\".\n\nBefore the Bologna Process, the DEUG was governed by the decree of 9 April 1997. This applied since September 1997 (Bayrou reform), it is also still in force today.\nThis DEUG is open to any holder of Baccalauréat or equivalent. It is organized into four semesters, the first being a half of orientation. The lessons are grouped by academic units. The first year included a tutorial. Universities must conduct two examination sessions. Access is made in the second year if the student had validated 70% of the first year (and 80% of DEUG enough to access the Bachelor, but did not get the degree).\nOnly three annual entrants were allowed to graduate unless exceptions.\nThe DEUG included nine areas:\n\nThe DEUG science and technology of sport and physical activity (sport science) the program is determined by \"arrêté\".\n\nSince the implementation of the Bologna Process (2003 to 2006 depending on the university), the DEUG is a diploma through the Bachelor's degree. It is issued if students are successfully completed double degrees first four (of six) semesters and receive one diploma with both major fields.\nAreas and programs are no longer set nationally, but universities have often taken existing titles.\n"}
{"id": "10558147", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10558147", "title": "Doctor of Pastoral Theology", "text": "Doctor of Pastoral Theology\n\nThe Doctor of Pastoral Theology (Abbreviated P.Th.D. for the Latin \"Pastoralis Theologiæ Doctor,\" PThD) is a theological professional degree geared to provide higher academic training to those who have already entered the pastoral ministry and who seek to continue their work while pursuing further theological study.\n\nThe Doctor of Pastoral Theology \"(P.Th.D.)\" is comparable to the Doctor of Philosophy \"(Ph.D.)\" or the Doctor in Theology \"(Th. D.)\" in terms of its academic load and level of study, with a grade of research represented by its required doctoral dissertation project of up to two hundred pages. Said pre-approved dissertation is usually expected to relate and complement the doctorate candidate's ongoing field of work.\n\nAs with the Doctor of Sacred Theology (\"S.T.D. = Sacrae Theologiae Doctor\") issued by the pontifical university system of the Roman Catholic Church, which builds upon the work of the Bachelor of Sacred Theology \"(S.T.B.)\" and the Licentiate of Sacred Theology \"(S.T.L.)\", the P.Th.D. also necessitates the completion of both a Bachelor's degree and a Master of Arts degree in a field of ministry training. The P.Th.D., however, is meant to enhance further the teaching, preaching, and leadership effectiveness of the current pastor/overseer of a congregational ministry, while the S.T.D. graduate is usually expected to seek the professorate in a Catholic university—see \"Sapientia Cristiana\" on Ecclesiastical Universities, Part One, Section VII, Article 50. n.1 at .\n"}
{"id": "53272300", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53272300", "title": "Dr. Gaur Hari Singhania Institute of Management and Research", "text": "Dr. Gaur Hari Singhania Institute of Management and Research\n\nDr. Gaur Hari Singhania Institute of Management and Research (GHS-IMR), Kanpur, is a Management Institute of North India. It was established in 1995 by JK Organization. GHS-IMR offers two-year full-time Post Graduate Diploma in Management which is approved by All India Council for Technical Education and recognized as equivalent to MBA by Association of Indian Universities (AIU).\n\nDr. Gaur Hari Singhania Institute of Management and Research was established in 1995 by JK Organization. GHS-IMR is one of the oldest management institutes in Kanpur. GHS-IMR is an AICTE approved management college and offers two-year full-time Post Graduate Diploma in Management (PGDM). GHS-IMR today is an alma mater to over 1900+ alumni, who are working across many industries.\n\n\nThe Post Graduate Diploma in Management (PGDM) is two-year full-time programme. During the two years, the student receives academic inputs in two parts: the Compulsory course and the Elective course. Largely, the compulsory courses are to be studied in the first year and the elective courses are in the second year. The students can opt for dual specialization in the areas of Marketing, Finance, Human Resource Management, Operations, International Business and Information Technology as per their choice and career aspiration. \n\n"}
{"id": "46277542", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46277542", "title": "EKool", "text": "EKool\n\neKool is a school management system used in Estonia covering 90% of the nation's school network connecting all the pupils, parents and teachers involved. It is estimated that this application is used by 28-30% of Estonians in total. The name eKool means eSchool in Estonian.\n\nThe system is usable for teachers, pupils and parents to exchange information about time tables, grades, homework assignments and other similar features. eKool was created in 2002 by Look@Workd foundation in cooperation with companies from the private sector. It was originally designed to meet the requirements of four test schools: Rocca Al Mare School, Jüri Gymnasium, Kuresaare Gymnasium and Tallinn Arte Gymnasium. Since then it has grown to cover 90% of Estonian school network.\n\neKool started in 2002 to replace printed school diaries by digital journals which would enable parents and students to see their grades and homework assignments online. The pilot project was launched by the specifications of 4 schools: Rocca Al Mare School, Jüri Gymnasium, Kuressaare Gymnaasium and Tallinn Arte Gymnasium. The initial Look@World program ended in 2005 after which it was turned into a private company: Koolitööde AS. In the next few years the eKool mostly expanded over the Estonian school system reaching over 420 schools by 2012.\n\nSince 2014 eKool is also supported by mobile application which allows students and parents to access their information from mobile phones. However schools and teachers still need to use a computer.\n\neKool can be accessed by combination of user-name and password, Estonian ID-card, Estonian Mobile-ID, Smart-ID or through online bank identification. eKool can be used by various interest groups: school personnel, students, parents and to some extent the local government overseeing their own school's. With one user account a person can access functionalities for different user groups where the user belongs to.\n\nThe schools personnel carries out most of the data entry process to eKool which latter can be used by all parties that have right to access the information. Among the information schools provide are:\n\n\nThe parents and the students can access the information and keep themselves up to date. From their own side they make it easy for the school to collect contact information because parents and students enter it themselves and keep eKool updated by using it.\n"}
{"id": "2313092", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2313092", "title": "Education in Africa", "text": "Education in Africa\n\nEducation in Africa is governed by the ministries of education in each country.\n\nIn 2000, the United Nations adopted the Millennium Development Goals, a set of development goals for the year 2015, more specifically, “to ensure that by 2015, children everywhere, boys and girls alike will be able to complete a full course of primary schooling.” That same year, the World Education Forum met in Dakar, Senegal, and adopted the Dakar Framework for Action reaffirming the commitment to achieving Education for All by the year 2015.\n\nAt the time, according to UNESCO, only 57% of African children were enrolled in primary schools, the lowest enrollment rate of any region surveyed. The report also showed marked gender inequalities: in almost all countries enrollment of boys far outpaced that of girls. However in some countries, education is relatively strong. In Zimbabwe, literacy has reached 92%.\nSteps such as the abolition of school fees, investments in teaching infrastructure and resources, and school meals from the World Food Programme helped drive enrollment up by millions. Yet despite the significant progress of many countries, the world fell short of meeting its goal of Universal Primary Education (UPE). In sub-Saharan Africa as of 2013, only about 79% of primary school-age children were enrolled in school. 59 million children of primary-school age were out of school, and enrollment of girls continued to lag behind that of boys. Disparity between genders is partially due to females being excluded from school for being pregnant. \n\nFollowing the expiration of the MDGs in 2015, the UN adopted a set of Sustainable Development Goals for the year 2030. The fourth goal addressed education, with the stated aim to “ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and promote lifelong learning opportunities for all.” The World Education Forum also convened in Incheon, Korea to discuss the implementation of this goal, and adopted the Incheon Declaration for Education 2030. It remains to be seen what effect the latest measures have on the state of education participation in African countries.\n\nRegarding issues of quality in education and equity, there are underlying causes that deter progress such as high drop-out rates, grade repetition, poor quality of education and educational resources, teacher shortages, poor infrastructure and supplies, access to education for rural and remote areas, and stigmas for marginalized groups. \n\nDue to high linguistic diversity, the legacy of colonialism and the need for knowledge of international languages such as English and French in employment and higher education, most schooling in Africa takes places in languages that teachers and pupils do not speak natively, and in some cases simply do not understand. There is considerable evidence that pupils schooled in a second language achieve poorer results than those schooled in their mother tongue, as lack of proficiency in the second language impairs understanding and encourages ineffective rote learning. Although UNESCO have recommended since the 1950s that children be taught early literacy in their mother tongue, progressing later to other languages, not all African countries implement this effectively. Even where the earliest grades are taught in the mother tongue, pupils are typically forced to switch to languages such as English and French before acquiring proficiency in these languages.\n\nAnother reason for the low education rates in Africa is the lack of proper schooling facilities and unequal opportunity for education across countries. Many schools across Africa find it hard to employ teachers due to the low pay and lack of suitable people. This is particularly true for schools in remote areas. Most people who manage to receive education would prefer to move to big cities or even overseas where more opportunities and higher pay await. Thus, there will be an overly large class sizes and high average number of students per teacher in a school. Moreover, the teachers are usually those unqualified with few teaching aids and poor textbook provision. Due to this, children attending schools in rural areas usually attain poorer results in standardised tests compared to their urban counterparts. This can be seen in the reports given by the Northern and Eastern Africa Consortium for Monitoring Educational Quality (SACMEQ). Those taking the tests in rural areas score much lower than those in small towns and big cities. This shows a lack of equal education opportunity given to children from different parts of the same country.\n\nWith teachers being less qualified than others in urban areas the teaching to learning environment takes an effect amongst the students. In one instance teachers took the same test as their students and three fourths of them had failed. In addition, those that do not receive the same education to those in the bigger cities have trouble even after graduation with reading, writing, and doing math. Students who do not attain the same equal education to those in urban environments do not achieve the same outcome in establishing success with a career. With education being a major concern towards achieving a career and establishing a future, Africa needs to be aware that equal education needs to be established within all schools throughout the countries.\n\nNext, emigration leads to a loss of highly educated people and financial loss. The loss of skilled people can only be replaced with another huge cost which imply the loss of money spent educating people who leave and new people to replace them. Even though an almost 5.5% of GDP investment in education, the loss makes it difficult for the government to budget another amount in education as they will need to prioritize other needs such as military budget and debt servicing.\n\nWestern models and standards still continue to dominate African education. Because of colonization African institutions, particularly universities, still instruct using Euro-centric curriculums with almost no connection to life in Africa. This is further perpetuated by the use of European and American imported textbooks. Many view this lack of self sufficiency as an ongoing effect of colonization upheld by the modern, corrupt African elite. This attitude rests on the basis that during colonization the African ruling elite exploited their own people for their own benefit rather than advocate for the interests of their own people. \n\nThe global water crisis has severe effects on education in rural countries in Africa. Limited access to education and health issues can be further compounded by inadequate water systems or disease that may follow. Malaria, cited to be a main cause of death in Africa, is a mosquito-borne disease that can commonly be found in unmanaged pools of still water. The mosquitos breed in such pools and consequently children who drink from these pools can die or fall severely ill. Furthermore, such an intense illness can later affect the cognitive abilities of children who fall ill at a young age. This is not only applicable biologically but also as an effect of falling ill: children who miss a significant amount of school are unable to optimize their education due to missing lessons.\n\nMilitary spending is causing education spending to decrease immensely. According to a March 2011 report by UNESCO, armed conflict is the biggest threat to education in Africa. While the number of dropouts across the continent has been increasing dramatically, one of the influences of war and conflict on education is the diversion of public funds from education to military spending. An already underfunded system is losing more money. Twenty-one African countries have been identified as the highest spenders of gross domestic product on military globally compared with the amount directed toward education. Military and conflict also leads to the displacement of children. It often forces them to remain in camps or flee to their neighboring countries where education is not available to them.\n\nInitiatives to improve education in Africa include:\n\n\n\nA 2010 Transparency International report, with research gathered from 8,500 educators and parents in Ghana, Madagascar, Morocco, Niger, Senegal, Sierra Leone and Uganda, found that education is being denied to African children in incredibly large numbers.\n\nA lack of parent involvement, especially as an overseer of government activities also leads to enormous corruption. This was most often found to be because parents and communities feel as though they lack any kind of power in regard to their child's education. In Uganda only 50% of parents believe that they have the power to influence decisions regarding the education of their child. In Morocco, just 20% of parents believed they held any sort of power.\n\nThe unavailability and incompleteness of records in schools and districts prevents the documentation and prevention of corrupt practices. The African Education Watch conducted surveys all over the continent and identified the three most common practices of corruption:\n\n\nWithout this basic education, the report found it was nearly impossible to go on to high school or college. African children are missing this link that allows them to have a chance in trade or to go beyond their villages.\n\nA report by USAID and the Bureau for Africa, Office of Sustainable Development, found that NGOs are increasingly participating in contribute to the delivery of education services, education policy decisions and are included by donors and government officials in many parts of the education system. Of course, this varies country to country and region to region.\n\nNGOs working in education in Africa often encountered tension and competition when working. Schools, parents and, most often government officials, feel threatened by third-party involvement and feel that they are \"crashing the party.\" The report continues that for NGOs to be effective, they must understand that they do not have the same perspective as government officials as to who is in control. If they do not recognize the government of the country they are working in, they will compromise their objectives.\n\nThe report goes into more detail about NGO relations with governments in education. The relationship is viewed from completely separate points. African governments see NGOs and their work as \"an affair of government\" or, in other words, working as a part and in collaboration with the country's government. NGOs on the other hand view themselves as very separate entities in African education. They see themselves fulfilling moral responsibility. They believe that they are identifying needs or areas of development in situations under which the government has ultimately been unaccountable and separately mobilizing resources toward those needs or development areas. Government and NGOs are hold contrasting beliefs about each other's abilities. Governments often think NGOs are unqualified to make important policy decision and that they could undermine their legitimacy if seen as superior. In some cases, NGOs have found government incompetent themselves, if not their own fault, as the fault of a lack of resources. In the best cases, NGOs and government officials find each other's mutual strengths in education policy and find ways to practically collaborate and reach both of their objectives.\n\nTo be effective in education in Africa NGOs must effect policy and create policy changes that support their projects. NGOs also found that, to see this policy change that they are striving for, they must create and foster relationships with many different stakeholders. The most important stakeholders are usually donors and government officials. The biggest challenge for NGOs has been linking these networks together. NGO interventions to change policy have revealed that NGO programmes have failed to create a successful way to change the policy process while making sure that the public understands and is a part of education policy. This problem will prove more influential in the future if it is not solved.\n\nAdult education in Africa, having experienced a comeback following the independence and increasing prosperity of many African nations, poses specific requirements on policymakers and planners to take into consideration indigenous cultural traits and characteristics. With a moderate backlash against Western ideals and educational traditions, many universities and other institutes of higher education take it upon themselves to develop a new approach to higher education and adult education.\n\nMost contemporary analysts regard illiteracy as a development issue because of the link between poverty and illiteracy. Funding is inadequate and inconsistent and is needed for priority areas such as educator training, monitoring, and evaluation. There is a clear need for investment in capacity development, having a full, sufficiently paid and well qualified professionalized staff, and increasing the demands for adult education professionals. The majority of adult educators are untrained, especially in basic literacy. Governments often employ schoolteachers and others in adult education posts rather than experienced adult educators. Many of the difficulties experienced could be solved by allocation of resources to meet the needs (adequate funds, more staff, appropriate training for staff and suitable material). Underfunding is a huge threat to the sustainability of these programs, and in some cases, to their continued existence. The best-reported data on funding is about adult literacy and non-formal education programs. Funding for continuing education, either academic or vocational is provided and reported on, but little data is given on its financing. Funding may come from public or private sector sources. International and foreign aid is also likely to be important. The costs of much adult education seem to be kept artificially low by the use of state facilities and by the extremely low salaries paid to many adult education specialists.\n\nPublic universities have not been successful in attracting older students onto mainstream degree programs and so the post-apartheid ideal of opening access to public higher education for growing numbers of non-traditional students is not yet a reality. However, certain countries have reported some success rates in Adult Education programs. Between 1990 and 2007 Uganda enrolled over 2million participants in the functional adult literacy program. The Family Basic Education program was active in 18 schools by 2005, reaching over 3,300 children and 1,400 parents. This is a successful family literacy mediation whose impact at household, school and community level has been evaluated.\n\nUnfortunately, the national reports typically do not provide sufficient information on the content of the adult education programs that run in their countries. In the majority of cases the name of the program is as much detail as is given. Curriculum content does not seem to be a major issue.\n\nAfrican communities are very close knit; activities, lifestyles, particularities of individuals are nearly always common knowledge. Because of this, it is difficult for any one member or group within an area to take a significantly different approach to any facet of life within the community. For this reason, program planners for adult learners in Africa find higher rates of success when they employ a participatory approach. Through open and honest dialogue about the fears, motivations, beliefs and ambitions of the community as a whole, there is less social strain concerning individual divergent behavior.\n\nIn addition to strong traditional beliefs, years of slavery through colonization have led to a sense of unity and common struggle in African communities. Therefore, lesson plans in these areas should reflect this cultural sensibility; collaboration and cooperation are key components of successful programs. Teaching techniques that utilize these ideas may include story-telling, experiential simulation, and the practice of indigenous traditions with slight modifications. Every program and lesson must be tailored to the particular community because they almost always learn, live, and achieve as a group or not at all.\n\nInformal education plays a strong role within indigenous learning in African communities. This poses a significant challenge to western-style program planners that emphasize formal learning within a designated time-frame and setting. These requirements must often be abandoned in order to achieve success in communities that have no strong affinity for time and formal education. Programs must be planned that become ingrained into the daily life of participants, that reflects their values and add positive functionality to their lives. Successful programs often involve more long-term learning arrangements consisting of regular visits and the free, unforced offer of information.\n\nAfrican philosophy of adult education recognizes the western ideas such as liberalism, progressivism, humanism and behaviorism, while complementing them with native African perspectives.\n\n\nA positive correlation exists between the enrollment of girls in primary school and the gross national product and increase of life expectancy.\n\nIn 2000, 93.4 million women in Sub-Saharan Africa were illiterate. Many reasons exist for why formal education for females is unavailable to so many, including cultural reasons. For example, some believe that a woman's education will get in the way of her duties as a wife and a mother. In some places in Africa where women marry at age 12 or 13, education is considered a hindrance to a young woman's development.\n\nWomen's education is sometimes corrupted by sexual violence. Sexual violence against girls and female students affects many African education systems. In Sub-Saharan Africa, sexual violence is one of the most common and least known forms of corruption.\n\nWhile most of the Millennium Development Goals face a deadline of 2015, the gender parity target was set to be achieved a full ten years earlier - an acknowledgement that equal access to education is the foundation for all other development goals. Gender disparity is defined as inequalities of some quantity attributed to the reason of gender type. In countries where resources and school facilities are lacking, and total enrollments are low, a choice must often be made in families between sending a girl or a boy to school. Of an estimated 101 million children not in school, more than half are girls. However, this statistic increased when examining secondary school education. In high-income countries, 95% as many girls as boys attend primary and secondary schools. However, in sub-Saharan Africa the figure is just 60%.\n\nThe foremost factor limiting female education is poverty. Economic poverty plays a key role when it comes to coping with direct costs such as tuition fees, cost of textbooks, uniforms, transportation and other expenses. Wherever, especially in families with many children, these costs exceed the income of the family, girls are the first to be denied schooling. This gender bias decision in sending females to school is also based on gender roles dictated by culture. Girls usually are required to complete household chores or take care of their younger siblings when they reach home. This limits their time to study and in many cases, may even have to miss school to complete their duties. It is common for girls to be taken out of school at this point. Boys however, may be given more time to study if their parents believe that the education will allow them to earn more in the future. Expectations, attitudes and biases in communities and families, economic costs, social traditions, and religious and cultural beliefs limit girls’ educational opportunities.\n\nAdditionally, in most African societies, women are seen as the collectors, managers, and guardians of water, especially within the domestic sphere that includes household chores, cooking, washing, and child rearing. Because of these traditional gender labor roles, women are forced to spend around sixty percent of each day collecting water, which translates to approximately 200 million collective work hours by women globally per day and a decrease in the amount of time available for education, shown by the correlation of decrease in access to water with a decrease in combined primary, secondary, and tertiary enrollment of women.\n\nWhatever the underlying reason(s) are, about having large numbers of girls outside the formal schooling system brings developmental challenges to both current and future generations . According to the UNESCO, the rates of female children out of primary school is higher than that of male children in all the African countries where data is available. Until equal numbers of girls and boys are in school, it will be impossible to build the knowledge necessary to eradicate poverty and hunger, combat disease and ensure environmental sustainability. Millions of children and women will continue to die needlessly, placing the rest of the development agenda at risk.\n\nIn Africa and the Arab world, promoting gender equality and empowering women is perhaps the most important of the eight Millennium Development Goals. The target associated with achieving this goal is to eliminate gender disparity in primary and secondary enrollment preferably by 2005, and at all levels by 2015. Women deserve the instrumental effects of gender equality in education and the intrinsic dimension of female education; which in essence derives from the role of education in enhancing a woman’s set of capabilities. Thus, in theory, there is a direct effect from female education to income (or growth).\nEducation, especially for girls, has social and economic benefits for society as a whole. Women earn only one tenth of the world’s income and own less than one percent of property, so households without a male head are at special risk of impoverishment. These women will also be less likely to immunize their children and know how to help them survive. Women who are educated tend to have fewer and healthier children, and these children are more likely to attend school. Higher female education makes women better-informed mothers and hence could\ncontribute to lowering child mortality rates and malnutrition. In Africa, limited education and employment opportunities for women reduce annual per capita growth by 0.8%. Had this growth taken place, Africa’s economies would have doubled over the past 30 years. It is estimated that some low-income countries in Africa would need up to $23.8 billion annually to achieve the Millennium Development Goal focused on promoting gender equality and empowering women by 2015. This would translate from $7to $13 per capita per year from 2006 to 2015, according to OECD-DAC.\n\nThe Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women (CEDAW), adopted in 1979 by the UN General Assembly and acceded to by 180 States, sets down rights for women, of freedom from discrimination and equality under the law. CEDAW has realized the rights and equality of woman is also the key to the survival and development of children and to building healthy families, communities and nations. Article 10 pinpoints nine changes that must be changed in order to help African women and other women suffering from gender disparity. It first states, their must be the same conditions for careers, vocational guidance, and for the achievement of diplomas in educational establishments of all categories in rural as well as in urban areas. This equality shall be ensured in pre-school, general, technical, professional and higher technical education, as well as in all types of vocational training. Second, is access to the same curricula, the same examinations, teaching staff with qualifications of the same standard and school premises and equipment of the same quality. Third, is the elimination of any stereotyped concept of the roles of men and women at all levels and in all forms of education. This is encouraged by coeducation and other types of education which will help to achieve this aim and, in particular, by the revision of textbooks and school programmes and the adaptation of teaching methods. Fourth, the same opportunities to benefit from scholarships and other study grants. Similarly, fifth is the same opportunities of access to programmes of continuing education, including adult and functional literacy programmes, particularly those aimed at reducing, at the earliest possible time, any gap in education existing between men and women. Sixth, is the reduction of female student drop-out rates and the organization of programmes for girls and women who have left school prematurely. Seventh concern listed is the same opportunities to participate actively in sports and physical education. Lastly, is access to specific educational information to help to ensure the health and well-being of families, including information and advice on family planning.\n\nOther global goals echoing these commitments include the World Education Forum’s Dakar platform, which stresses the rights of girls, ethnic minorities and children in difficult circumstances; and A World Fit for Children’s emphasis on ensuring girls’ equal access to and achievement in basic education of good quality. In April 2000 more than 1,100 participants from 164 countries gathered in Dakar, Senegal, for the World Education Forum. Ranging from teachers to prime ministers, academics to policymakers, non-governmental bodies to the heads of major international organizations, they adopted the Dakar Framework for Action, Education for All: Meeting Our Collective Commitments. The goal is education for all as laid out by the World Conference on Education for All and other international conferences. Between 1990 and 1998 the net enrollment of boys increased by 9 per cent to 56 per cent, and of girls by 7 per cent to 48 per cent in sub-Saharan Africa. However, these figures mask considerable regional variations. In countries of the Indian Ocean, both girls and boys attained over 70 per cent net enrollment. The most outstanding progress in terms of percentage increase of boys' enrollment was in East Africa, where the net enrollment of boys increased by 27 per cent (to 60 per cent) and of girls by 18 per cent (to 50 per cent). For girls in Southern Africa, the comparable figures for girls were 23 per cent (to 76 per cent) and for boys, 16 per cent (to 58 per cent). This is the resurgence of a vibrant Africa, rich in its cultural diversity, history, languages and arts, standing united to end its marginalization in world progress and development. A prosperous Africa, where the knowledge and the skills of its people are its first and most important resource.\n\nThe Forum for African Women Educationalists (FAWE) announces a call for the second round of research proposals from research institutions for its Strengthening Gender Research To Improve Girls’ And Women’s Education In Africa initiative. The initiative, which is supported by the Norwegian Agency for Development Cooperation (NORAD), promotes girls and women’s education through the integration of gender into education policy and practice in sub-Saharan Africa. FAWE believes it is vital to invest in research in Africa as way producing current information for advocacy in education policy. This three-year research initiative aims to work collaboratively with established research institutions to produce pertinent and robust research. That can be used to constructively engage government, policy makers and other regional bodies on strategies to advance girls' education in Africa. Findings from the research will be used to inform FAWE’s advocacy work and help redress gender inequities that hinder women's fulfillment of their right to education and meaningful participation in Africa’s social and economic advancement.\n\nA joint study by the World Bank and AFD carried out by Alain Mingat, Blandine Ledoux and Ramahatra Rakotomalala sought to anticipate the pressures that would be brought to bear on post-primary teaching. The study puts it this way: \"“In the reference year\" \"(2005), our sample of 33 countries in sub-Saharan Africa had 14.9 million pupils enrolled in the first year of secondary school. If the rate of completion of the primary stage reaches 95% by 2020 with levels of transition from primary to the first year of secondary maintained at their current level in each country, the first year of secondary school would have 37.2 million pupils in 2020, or 2.5 times the current number. If all the pupils finishing primary school could continue with their education, the number of pupils in the first year of secondary school would reach 62.9 million by 2020, a multiplication by 4.2 over the period.”\" Behind the regional averages, there are still enormous disparities between the countries, and even between the different zones and regions within countries, which means that it is not possible to “[…] identify conditions that apply uniformly to education across the different countries of sub-Saharan Africa.” While some countries have lower demographic growth, others enjoy a more satisfactory level of school enrolment. Only a few countries are falling seriously behind in education at the same time as having to address a steady growth in their school-age population: Niger, Eritrea, Burundi, Guinea-Bissau, Uganda and to a lesser extent Burkina Faso, Chad, Mali, Mozambique, Rwanda, Senegal and Malawi are particularly affected by this dual constraint. The EFA 2012 report highlights great disparities between the sub-Saharan African countries: the percentage of children excluded from primary school is only 7% in Gabon and 14% in Congo compared to over 55% in Burkina Faso and Niger. The gap in terms of the proportion of those excluded from the first year of middle school is even wider, with 6% in Gabon compared to 68% in Burkina Faso and 73% in Niger.\n\nThe majority of out-of-school populations are to be found in countries where there is conflict or very weak governance. At the Dakar Forum, the 181 signatory countries of the Dakar Framework for Action identified armed conflict as well as internal instability within a country as “a major barrier towards attaining Education for All” (EFA) – education being one of the sectors to suffer most from the effects of armed conflict and political instability. In the 2011 EFA Global Monitoring Report, UNESCO pointed out that the countries touched by conflict showed a gross rate of secondary school admissions almost 30% lower than countries of equivalent revenue that were at peace. Conflicts also affect the rate of literacy of the population. At the global level, the rate of literacy among adults in countries touched by conflict was 69% in 2010 compared to 85% in peaceful countries. Twenty States in sub-Saharan Africa have been touched by conflict since 1999. Those countries affected by armed conflict, such as Somalia and the Democratic Republic of the Congo, are furthest from meeting the EFA goals and contain the majority of the unschooled inhabitants of sub-Saharan Africa. In the Democratic Republic of the Congo, in North Kivu, a region particularly affected by conflicts, for example, the likelihood of young people aged between 17 and 22 having had only two years of schooling was twice the national average.\n\nLess than half the children in sub-Saharan Africa can neither read nor write: a quarter of primary school age children reach the fourth year without having acquired the basics and over a third do not reach the fourth year. [A]ccording to the 2010 EFA Global Monitoring Report, “millions of children are leaving school without having acquired basic skills. In some countries in sub-Saharan Africa, young adults with five years of education had a 40% probability of being illiterate”. The teacher training systems are generally not able to meet the quantitive and qualitative needs of training. In Chad, for example, only 35.5% of teachers are certified to teach.\n\nEducational technology in sub-Saharan Africa refers to the promotion, development and use of information and communication technologies (ICT), m-learning, media, and other technological tools to improve aspects of education in sub-Saharan Africa. Since the 1960s, various information and communication technologies have aroused strong interest in sub-Saharan Africa as a way of increasing access to education, and enhancing its quality and fairness.\n\nThe development of individual computer technology has proved a major turning point in the implementation of projects dependent on technology use, and calls for the acquisition of computer skills first by teachers and then by pupils. Between 1990 and 2000, multiple actions were started in order to turn technologies into a lever for improving education in sub-Saharan Africa. Many initiatives focused on equipping schools with computer hardware. A number of NGOs contributed, on varying scales, to bringing computer hardware into Africa, such as groups like Computer Aid International, Digital Links, SchoolNet Africa and World Computer Exchange. Sometimes with backing from cooperation agencies or development agencies like USAID, the African Bank or the French Ministry of Foreign Affairs, these individual initiatives grew without adequate coordination. States found it difficult to define their national strategies with regard to ICT in Education. \n\nThe American One Laptop per Child (OLPC) project, launched in several African countries in 2005, aimed to equip schools with laptop computers at low cost. While the average price of an inexpensive personal computer was between US$ 200 and US$ 500, OLPC offered its ultraportable XO-1 computer at the price of US$ 100. This technological breakthrough marked an important step in potential access to ICT. OLPC became an institutional system: the programme was “bought” by governments, which then took responsibility for distribution to the schools. The underlying logic of the initiative was one of centralization, thus enabling the largescale distribution of the equipment. Almost 2 million teachers and pupils are now involved in the programme worldwide (http://one.laptop.org/) and more than 2.4 million computers have been delivered. Following on from OLPC, the Intel group launched Classmate PC, a similar programme also intended for pupils in developing countries. Though it has a smaller presence in sub-Saharan Africa than the OLPC project, Classmate PC has enabled laptop computers to be delivered to primary schools in the Seychelles and Kenya, particularly in rural areas. Also in Kenya, the CFSK (Computer for School in Kenya) project was started in 2002 with the aim of distributing computers to almost 9,000 schools.\n\nThe cross-fertilization of teaching models and tools has now broadened the potential of ICT within the educational framework. Certain technologies, perceived as outdated compared to more innovative technology, nonetheless remain very much embedded in local practice. Today they are undergoing a partial revival, thanks to the combination of different media that can be used in any single project. Despite its limited uses in teaching, radio is a medium that still has considerable reach in terms of its audience. Cheaper than a computer, it also has a cost-benefit ratio that makes it attractive to many project planners. Launched in 2008, the BBC Janala programme, offering English courses in a combination of different media, including lessons of a few minutes via mobile phone, received more than 85,000 calls per day in the weeks following the launch of the service. In 15 months, over 10 million calls (paid, but at a reduced price compared to a normal communication) were made, by over 3 million users. Television, a feature of very many households, is witnessing a revival in its educational uses, by being combined with other media. As part of the Bridge IT programme in Tanzania, short educational videos, also available on mobile phones, are broadcast on the classroom television so that all the pupils can take part collectively. The e-Schools’ Network in South Africa has also, since March 2013, been developing an educational project, the object of which is to exploit unused television frequencies. There are currently ten schools taking part in the project. \n\nAnother digital tool with multiple uses, the interactive whiteboard (IWB), is also being used in some schools in sub-Saharan Africa. At the end of the 2000s, the Education for All Network (REPTA), in partnership with the Worldwide Fund for Digital Solidarity (FSN) and, in France, the interministerial delegation for digital education in Africa (DIENA) made interactive whiteboards available to schools in Burkina Faso, Niger, Benin, Senegal and Mali, along with open content. The use of the IWB has had a positive effect on motivation, for pupils and teachers alike. However, their impact in terms of learning has been muted. This system marginalizes the direct participation of the pupils in favour of multi-media demonstrations initiated by the teacher.\n\nThe main initiatives based on the use of ICT and the Internet in education originally focused on distance learning at university level. Thus, the African Virtual University (AVU), set up by the World Bank in 1997, was originally conceived as an alternative to traditional teaching. When it became an intergovernmental agency in 2003, it was training 40,000 people, mostly on short programmes. It shifted its focus to teacher training and to integrating technology into higher education. The AVU has ten e-learning centres. The Agence universitaire de la Francophonie (AUF) has also, since 1999, set up around forty Frenchspeaking digital campuses, more than half of them in Africa. In these infrastructures, dedicated to technology and set up within the universities, the AUF offers access to over 80 first and masters degrees entirely by distance learning, about 30 of which are awarded by African institutions and created with its support. More recently, the MOOCs (Massive Open Online Courses) phenomenon has grown up, first in the United States and then in Europe.\n\n\nThere is also a push in many African countries to reform colonial education standards to emphasize the importance of indigenous languages and cultures instead of European languages and cultures. Critics of these reforms maintain that European languages should continue to be the focus of education to ensure that African students can be competitive in a European-dominated global economy.\n\n\nThe origins of African education may be found in Egypt in Northern Africa. One of the first convenient mediums for retaining information, papyrus, was used to develop systems for learning and developing new ideas. In fact, one of the first forms of higher education in Africa were the School of Holy Scriptures built in Ethiopia and Al-Azhar which was in Egypt. These schools became cultural and academic centers as many people traveled from all over the globe for knowledge and instruction. Well before contact with external cultures, Africans had developed pools of understanding and educational tools. In fact, the world’s first university was located in Timbuktu, opened in 2600 BC.\n\nIndigenous knowledge systems, a tradition in which communities teach and learn from themselves through daily life rather than strict education, were also highly important and effective. The apprenticeship perspective was of particular use to ancient Africans; by modeling the necessary skills for others, junior members of the community learned to hunt, gather water, hold meetings, etc. The overall purpose of this task-orientation type of education was to both learn specific skills and \"produce an individual who is honest, respectable, skilled, cooperative and conforms to the societal order of the day.\" \n\nThe onset of the colonial period in the 19th century marked the beginning of the end for traditional African education. European forces, missionaries, and colonists all came ready and willing to change existing traditions to meet their own needs and ambitions. Colonial powers such as Spain, Portugal, Belgium and France colonized the continent without putting in a system of education. Because the primary focus of colonization was reaping benefits from commercial colonial economies, cash crop production, extraction of raw materials, other physically laborious tasks were prioritized. These economies did not expand to require jobs of a higher skill set or more labor, therefore intensive labor that required little skill was high in demand. Because of such circumstances there was little demand to educate or train the colonized populations. Furthermore, colonial powers were unwilling to offer education to those they colonized unless it benefited them. Either colonial powers did not view investing in African education as a practical use of their revenue or they refrained from educating Africans in order to avoid any uprisings. Those in positions of authority were in fear of access to widespread access to higher education specifically. Colonial powers often found themselves in a debate whether or not to educate their colonized populations and if so, to what extent. Specifically, the British Education Committee of the Privy Council advocated for vocational education and training rather than one focused on academia. This vocational training however neglected professions such as engineering, technology, or similar subjects. Instead the vocational training had a dominant racial overtone which stressed African training for skills fitting with their assumed social and mental inadequacy. Notably, the Belgians under King Leopold prohibited access to higher education in their colonies whereas other colonial powers put in barriers in infrastructure or access such as limiting language of instruction to the language of the colonizer, limits on teaching curriculums, and ensuring the curriculum did not reflect any Afro-ethnicity. By demanding that communities create physical schools with strict curriculum, the foreign powers were able to dictate what the people learned, adjusting it to further their agenda. This not only forced new form and content to education, but abandoned the knowledge gained from the largely informal education. With less community awareness, efficiency in learning skills, and especially understanding of the past, African communities began to dwindle in education and prosperity. Aspects of colonialism are still prevalent in African countries that struggled to escape effects of colonization today.   \n\nBetween the 1950s and 1990s, African countries finally regained their independence. With this recovered freedom, they began to rebuild their traditional forms of education. What had inevitably evolved, however, was a hybrid of the two models. With the collaboration of donor agencies and Western demand, pushes for development of African education and the building of human capital dominated global conversation. Namely, the 1960s were known as the First Development Decade by the UN. Policymakers prioritized secondary and tertiary education before also setting their sights for universal primary education around 1980. This set the precedent for educational planning. Although children and adults may learn from their families and community, a sense of individuality has also developed that today both drives ingenuity and creates separation between groups and cultural tradition. African education programs have developed that involve both groups; an HIV/AIDS awareness program, for example, may involve members coming into communities and sharing their knowledge. Although this is a direct, cognitive approach, they also try to involve all members of the community, allowing for the creation of ownership and cultural acceptance.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5569787", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5569787", "title": "Edward Arnold (publisher)", "text": "Edward Arnold (publisher)\n\nEdward Arnold Publishers Ltd was a British publishing house with its head office in London. The firm had published books for over 100 years. It became part of the Hodder Education group in 2001. In 2006, Hodder Arnold sold its academic journals to SAGE Publications. In 2012, Hodder Education sold its medical and higher education lines, including Arnold, to Taylor & Francis. Edward Arnold published books and journals for students, academics and professionals.\n\nEdward Augustus Arnold was born in Truro on 15 July 1857. His grandfather was Thomas Arnold and his uncle Matthew Arnold. He was educated at Eton and Hertford College, Oxford. He set up his own publishing business in January 1890. He died at Budleigh Salterton on 6 November 1942.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32069965", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32069965", "title": "Evangelical Presbyterian University College", "text": "Evangelical Presbyterian University College\n\nThe Evangelical Presbyterian University College was established in 2008 by the Evangelical Presbyterian Church, Ghana.\n\nThere are two campuses. The first is the Central Municipal Campus located at Ho, capital of the Volta Region of Ghana. The other is the Greenhill Campus, located at Peki in the South Dayi District of the Volta Region.\n\nIt currently has programmes organised by the School of Business and the School of Theology.\n\n"}
{"id": "37983229", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37983229", "title": "Felicia Pride", "text": "Felicia Pride\n\nFelicia Pride (born 1979) is an American author, screenwriter, and producer based in Los Angeles, California.\n\nPride was born in 1979, in Baltimore, Maryland. Her family moved to West Orange, New Jersey when she was young. She lived there until the age of eleven before returning to Baltimore to complete middle and high school. She attended Towson University where she studied marketing. Pride received her master's degree in writing and publishing from Emerson College in 2005.\n\nPride began her writing career in 2001, writing for the community newspaper \"Black Reign News\" based in Staten Island, New York. Over the period of 15 years, Pride has authored seven books. Her motivational book of essays, \"The Message: Life Lessons from Hip-Hop's Greatest Songs\" was published in 2007. The book has been used as a teaching tool to engage students in classrooms across the country and was re-issued by NBCUniversal. Her young adult novel, \"Patterson Heights\" was a 2010 \"American Library Association Pick for Reluctant Readers\".\n\nPride was selected as a \"Film Independent Screenwriting Fellow\" in 2016. She was the writer and producer of the short film \"The End Again\", which starred Columbus Short, and was covered in the press by outlets such as Indiewire, The Root, Okayplayer, and Huffington Post.\n\nFelicia Pride has given presentation at numerous universities, conferences, and literary events such as TEDx, SXSW, Confab, AFI DOCS, Film Independent Forum, Brooklyn Book Festival, Baltimore Book Festival, New York University, and Emerson College.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2039144", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2039144", "title": "Fellow of the Royal Society of Canada", "text": "Fellow of the Royal Society of Canada\n\nFellowship of the Royal Society of Canada (FRSC) is an award granted to individuals that the Royal Society of Canada judges to have \"made remarkable contributions in the arts, the humanities and the sciences, as well as in Canadian public life\".\n\n, there are over 2000 living Canadian fellows, including scholars, artists, and scientists such as Margaret Atwood, David Cronenberg, Philip J. Currie and Demetri Terzopoulos.\n\nThere are four types of fellowship:\n"}
{"id": "10048944", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10048944", "title": "Flip chart", "text": "Flip chart\n\nA flip chart is a stationery item consisting of a pad of large paper sheets. It is typically fixed to the upper edge of a whiteboard, typically supported on a tripod or four-legged easel. Such charts are commonly used for presentations.\n\nAlthough most commonly supported on a tripod, flip charts come in various forms. Some of these are:\n\nText is usually hand written with marker pens and may include figures or charts. A sheet can be flipped over by the presenter to continue to a new page.\n\nSome flip charts may have a reduced version of the page that faces the audience printed on the back of the preceding page, making it possible for the presenter to see the same thing the audience is seeing. Others have teaching notes printed on the back.\n\nFlip charts are used in many different settings such as:\n\nA variety of paper sizes are used from the floor standing through to the smaller table-top versions, subject to the country's adopted paper sizes. These include A1, B1, 25\" x30\" through to 20\" x 23\".\n\nThe earliest known patent of a flipchart is from May 8, 1913. Flip charts have being in use from the 1900s, the earliest recorded use of a flip chart is a photo from 1912 of John Henry Patterson (1844-1922), NCR’s CEO while addressing the 100 Point Club standing next to a pair of flip charts on casters. <nowiki><ref>The flipchart we know (on a small whiteboard) was invented by Peter Kent in the 1970s. Peter Kent was the founder and CEO of the visual communications group Nobo plc, and it is believed</nowiki> that they were the first company to put the large pieces of paper over whiteboards, rather than over other materials.\n\nRecently, scientists have developed a digital self writing flip chart which writes word for word everything it is instructed to record. The disability action group \"Armless\" has stated that this is a significant step forward for disabilities groups to have conferences like people without disabilities.\nAlso available are flipchart stands which are self heightening.\n\n"}
{"id": "24281183", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24281183", "title": "Hand boiler", "text": "Hand boiler\n\nA hand boiler or (less commonly) love meter is a glass sculpture used as an experimental tool to demonstrate vapour-liquid equilibrium, or as a collector's item to whimsically \"measure love.\" It consists of a lower bulb containing a volatile liquid and a mixture of gases that is connected usually by a twisting glass tube that connects to an upper or \"receiving\" glass bulb.\n\nA hand boiler functions similar to the \"drinking bird\" toy: The upper and lower bulbs of the device are at different temperatures, and therefore the vapor pressure in the two bulbs is different. Since the lower bulb is warmer, the vapor pressure in it is higher. The difference in vapor pressure forces the liquid from the lower bulb to the upper bulb. Thus:\n\nformula_1\n\nwhere:<br>\nformula_2 = the height of the column of fluid above the fluid's level in the lower bulb<br>\nformula_3 = the difference in vapor pressure between the two bulbs (which can be determined via the Antoine equation)<br>\nformula_4 = the density of the liquid<br>\nformula_5 = the acceleration of gravity at the Earth's surface\n\nThe liquid inside a hand boiler does not actually boil. The \"boiling\" is caused by the relationship between the temperature and pressure of a gas. As the temperature of a gas in a closed container rises, the pressure also rises. There must be a temperature (and pressure) difference between the two large chambers for the liquid to move. When held upright (with the smaller bulb on top), the liquid will move from the bulb with the higher pressure to the bulb with lower pressure. As the gas continues to expand, the gas will then bubble through the liquid, making it appear to boil. The fact that the liquid is volatile (easily vaporized) makes the hand boiler more effective. Adding heat to the liquid produces more gas, also increasing pressure in the closed container.\n\nSometimes a hand boiler is used to show properties of distillation. Since the liquid both evaporates and condenses at relatively cool temperatures while in an enclosed system, the boiler can be turned upside down, and the top end can be placed in ice water. The gaseous form of the liquid will condense in the cooled chamber. Since the liquid is often colored with dye, but the dye does not evaporate or condense at the same temperature, the liquid that condenses in the cooled chamber is colorless, leaving the pigment behind.\n\nIn popular culture, hand boilers used to be sometimes known as \"love meters\" because the tube that separates the upper and lower bulbs is twisted into a heart shape and the volatile liquid is colored red. Love meters were a common collector's item or a souvenir. Depending on how the item was packaged, one would grasp the lower bulb to \"prove\" how passionate one was, or a couple would each grasp one end to see who would force the liquid into the other's bulb.\n\nHand boilers are much more commonly used as a scientific novelty today.\n\nHand boilers date back at least as early as 1767, when the American polymath Benjamin Franklin encountered them in Germany. He developed an improved version in 1768, after which they were called Franklin's pulse glass or palm glass or pulse hammer (German: \"Pulshammer\") or water hammer (German: \"Wasserhammer\").\n\n"}
{"id": "6836735", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6836735", "title": "Heinz Dieterich", "text": "Heinz Dieterich\n\nHeinz Dieterich or Heinz Dieterich Steffan (born 1943) is a German sociologist and a political analyst residing in Mexico. He is better known for his leftist ideals. He contributes to several journals and has published more than 30 books about conflict in Latin America, global society and the ideological controversies that characterised the 20th century, among other philosophical and social scientific topics.\n\nDieterich was born in 1943 in Rotenburg an der Wümme. After completing his university studies in sociology in Frankfurt and Bremen, he moved to Latin America. Since 1977 he has been a professor in sociology and methodology at the Universidad Autónoma Metropolitana in Mexico, D.F.. Since then he has shown a lot of interest in politics and social movements in Latin America, and documented a great deal of their activity.\n\nHe is considered one of the most important figures in the \"New School of Bremen\" in sociology, constituted by Arno Peters, Carsten Stahmer, and the Cuban physicist Raimundo Franco. This school implements principles of cybernetics, quantum mechanics and the \"principle of equivalence\" to sociology. In 1996, Steffan contributed to the creation of the alternative information website Rebelion.org, where he contributes regularly.\n\nSteffan's contributions represent one of the most relevant references to analyse the theoretical and practical implications of the Marxist anticapitalist leftist movements that followed the fall of the USSR. His contributions suggest an alternative economic, political and social project, which the alter-globalistic movements lacked during the 1990s.\n\nIn his book \"The Socialism of the 21st century\" (), Steffan explains the theoretical basis of the new socialism, which finds its most practical application in the revolutionary process of Venezuela, and to a lesser extent in Bolivia and Ecuador. Dieterich was an advisor of the Venezuelan government.\n\nSome of his most important books are \"Global Society\" and \"Latin America: From Colonization to Globalization\", which he wrote in cooperation with Noam Chomsky.\n\nHis ideas have raised several controversies, especially in Venezuela. The Marxist theoretician Alan Woods has written a whole book against his allegedly reformist positions, \"Reformism or Revolution - A Reply to Heinz Dieterich\". However, his relationship with Venezuelan President Hugo Chávez deteriorated after he defended General Baduel, who led the \"no\" campaign in the 2007 constitutional referendum. On 15 August 2011 he submitted an article to the website kaosenlared.net where he explained the reasons over his break with Chávez.\n\n"}
{"id": "23063986", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23063986", "title": "Higher education in Ukraine", "text": "Higher education in Ukraine\n\nHigher education in Ukraine operates several levels, all of which are regulated by the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine. In early 2016, Ukraine had 802 universities, but the Ministry intends to lower that number to 317. In 2016-17, the number of students in higher education was 1,586,700.\n\nFor specific universities, see the List of universities in Ukraine.\n\nThe first higher education institutions (HEIs) emerged in Ukraine during the late 16th and early 17th centuries. The first Ukrainian higher education institution was the Ostrozka School, or Ostrozkiy Greek-Slavic-Latin Collegium, similar to Western European higher education institutions of the time. Established in 1576 in the town of Ostrog, the Collegium was the first higher education institution in the Eastern Slavic territories. The oldest university was the Kyiv Mohyla Academy, first established in 1632 and in 1694 officially recognized by the government of Imperial Russia as a higher education institution. Among the oldest is also the Lviv University, founded in 1661. More higher education institutions were set up in the 19th century, beginning with universities in Kharkiv (1805), Kiev (1834), Odessa (1865), and Chernivtsi (1875) and a number of professional higher education institutions, e.g.: Nizhyn Historical and Philological Institute (originally established as the Gymnasium of Higher Sciences in 1805), a Veterinary Institute (1873) and a Technological Institute (1885) in Kharkiv, a Polytechnic Institute in Kiev (1898) and a Higher Mining School (1899) in Katerynoslav. Rapid growth followed in the Soviet period. By 1988 a number of higher education institutions increased to 146 with over 850,000 students. Most HEIs established after 1990 are those owned by private organizations.\n\nThe \"Constitution of Ukraine (1996)\", \"Law on Education (1996)\", the \"Law on Higher Education (2002)\" and the major reform legislation \"Law on Higher Education (2014)\" constitute the legal framework for Ukrainian higher education. Ukrainian legislation regulating higher education includes also more limited legislation as well as decrees and regulations of the President and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine.\n\nBecause of a perceived lack of quality, 76 higher education institutions and their branches were denied licenses in 2015. \n\nAs with most communist Soviet and Eastern European states access to education for the masses was deemed a high priority, this was largely due to the fact that during imperial times mostly only the nobles and the wealthy had access to post secondary institutions. Citizens of the Soviet Union had free access to secondary education and were required to complete at least a junior specialist degree, equivalent to an associate degree in the US. Moreover, the Soviet Union exercised mandatory conscription of its male population, however those studying for a degree were exempt from the draft until the completion of their studies, therefore men would often stay enrolled to reach master's degrees to delay their entry into the military.\n\nAfter gaining independence Ukraine retained the Soviet principle of having a post secondary education system that is affordable to its population. In 2009 Ukraine spent 7.3% of GDP on education compared to the United States' 5.2%. Trade schools (Technikums), which are analogous to community colleges in the US and award the junior specialist degree continued to remain freely accessible by most citizens, students wishing to enroll in a trade school do not need to complete the full 11 grades of school and may enroll in 9th grade. However budget constraints forced tuition charges on University programs. Students wishing to enroll in universities must complete the full secondary education curriculum, during the last year of school they take a placement test which determines their chances of enrolling and whether or not they will have to pay tuition or not. Moreover, students enrolled may receive a monthly stipend which is designed to cover their living and school expenses while they are enrolled in college. In 2012 the minimum monthly stipend was 550 UAH for students enrolled in Technikums and 730 UAH for students enrolled in Universities. In 2016 tuition costs for higher education were averaging less than $1,000 per academic year; but because of corruption students costs were considerably higher. Students pursuing a doctoral degree beyond Specialist or master's degree are generally treated in a similar manner to graduate students in the US where they are expected to assist the faculty and may receive pay from the university as they perform their own research.\n\nAlthough online education is not predominant in Ukraine students may enroll in extramural college, which is the most common type of long distance education in Ukraine and many other former Soviet nations. During this type of enrollment the student continues to work and is given all of their assignments for the semester ahead of time. The student completes the assignments then returns to the university to explain their reasoning and complete testing. Many businesses in Ukraine subsidize their employees who return to pursue a higher degree using this method.\n\nHigher education qualifications combine both academic and professional qualifications. This is a very important feature of Ukrainian higher education inherited from its Soviet past. The State Diploma serves as both an educational certificate and a professional license. Employment is determined by a match between the state determination of the knowledge and skills required for different occupation levels and the state determination of levels of educational qualification. Hence is the correspondence between classification of educational qualification and that of the occupational structure, leading to the introduction of the term ‘educational-proficiency’ level.\n\nThe \"Law on Higher Education\" (2002) establishes a three-level structure of higher education: incomplete, basic, and complete educational levels with corresponding educational-proficiency levels of Junior Specialist, Bachelor, Specialist and Master. In 2016 the Ministry of Education transformed this system to the levels of Junior bachelor, bachelor's, master's, Doctor of Philosophy and Doctor of Sciences.\n\nJunior Specialist or Junior bachelor is an educational-proficiency level of higher education of a person who on the basis of complete secondary education has attained incomplete higher education, special skills and knowledge sufficient for discharging productive functions at a certain level of professional activity, stipulated for initial positions in a certain type of economic activity. The normative period of training makes 2.5–3 years.\n\nPersons with basic secondary education may study in the educational and professional programs of junior specialist’s training, obtaining at the same time complete secondary education.\n\nBachelor is an educational-proficiency level of higher education of a person who on the basis of complete secondary education has attained basic higher education, fundamental and special skills and knowledge, sufficient to cope with tasks and duties (work) at a certain level of professional activity (in economy, science, engineering, culture, arts, etc.). The normative period of training makes 4 years (240 ECTS credits).\n\nTraining specialists of the educational-proficiency level of Bachelor may be carried out according to the shortened programme of studies on the basis of the educational- proficiency level of Junior Specialist.\n\nMaster is an educational-proficiency level of higher education of a person who has attained complete higher education, special skills and knowledge, sufficient to cope with professional tasks and duties (work) of innovative character at a certain level of professional activity (in engineering, business administration, pedagogy, arts, etc.).\n\nTraining specialists of the educational-proficiency level of Master may also be carried out on the basis of the educational-proficiency level of Specialist. The period of training makes typically 1–1.5 year (60-90 ECTS credits).\n\nDuring his/her studies at the Master’s or Specialist's level, students are required to write his/her final work on a selected subject and make its presentation, to be able to collect, analyse and summarize, synthesize and to communicate study and practical material; often knowledge of a foreign language is required.\n\nTraining specialists of the educational-proficiency level of Specialist or Master in such fields as medicine, dentistry, veterinary medicine, teaching is carried out on the basis of complete secondary education within the period of 5–6 years (301-360 ECTS credits) (as is common in Western Europe for state registered professions).\n\nSpecialist was an educational-proficiency level of higher education of a person who on the basis of the educational-proficiency level of Bachelor had attained complete higher education, special skills and knowledge, sufficient to cope with tasks and duties (work) at a certain level of professional activity (in economy, science, engineering, culture, arts, etc.). The normative period of training was 1 year (60 ECTS credits). In 2016 the specialist degree was disbanded in Ukraine.\n\nHigher education graduates are awarded qualifications of the appropriate educational-proficiency levels and they are granted diplomas of the state format. The Diploma is the State-recognized document which serves as both an educational certificate and a professional licence, confirming the attainment of the appropriate higher educational level and qualification of a certain educational-proficiency level (an academic degree in a field of study and speciality). The \"Law on Higher Education\" (2002) establishes the following types of documents that confirm higher education qualifications:\n\nThe national system of quality assurance (QA) in Ukraine is realized by means of licensing and accreditation procedures carried out by the Department for Licensing, Accreditation and Nostrification of the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine, through the State Accreditation Commission, the State Inspectorate of HEIs, and the Higher (Supreme) Attestation Board.\n\nThe \"Law on Higher Education\" (2002) stipulates that educational establishments in Ukraine including those owned privately must be licensed before they can offer tertiary level educational programmes. To be granted a licence a HEI must meet the required standards set by the Ministry of Education and Science for higher education status at a certain level. These standards refer to: physical infrastructure, equipment and facilities, the learning resources (library and other media materials), the logistical, scientific-methodological and information base, and the number and qualification level of its staff, appropriate to the area of education and research in which it intends to offer programmes of study. The licence process assesses the list of subjects, the content of the educational programme of these subjects and the assessment tools used to examine students.\n\nLicensed HEIs are listed in the Ministry’s Public Register of HEIs.\n\nIn Ukraine accreditation procedures include both accreditation of the programmes of study in a certain field of study and speciality offered by HEIs, and institutional accreditation of HEIs.\n\nTo have a study programme accredited in a certain field of study and speciality a HEI must meet the demands of the higher education standards in terms of educational and professional provision offered by it. Programmes of study are accredited in relation to the relevant qualification associated with a certain educational-proficiency level, and thus at a certain level of accreditation.\n\nThe status of a HEI is determined by the proportion of programmes that it has accredited at particular levels. A higher education institution may receive institutional accreditation at a certain level, if at least two thirds of its specialities (specialisms) have already received accreditation at this level.\n\nThe Law of Ukraine \"On Higher Education\" (2002) establishes four levels of accreditation of higher education institutions.\n\nThere are six types of higher education institutions in Ukraine:\n\nThe Ministry of Education and Science (Sports and Youth) recognizes the following categories of institutions of the\ntop-level accreditation:\n\nHigher education institutions with 4th accreditation level may be bestowed the status of ‘\"National\"’ for outstanding performance in research and scientific activity. This status brings with it added powers in relation to immovable property, facilities, enterprises, institutions and other structural sub-units of the HEI; the award of professorial status; and ‘symbiotic’ and material incentives and rewards for employees of the HEI. In addition, it also accrues an additional budget for research activities.\n\nIn Ukraine, postgraduate education is regarded as specialist education and professional training commencing after the Specialist, Master phase. The \"Law of Higher Education (Article 10)\" and the \"Law on Education (Article 47)\" regard Post-Graduate education as specialised education and professional training on the basis of the previously obtained educational-proficiency level and experience of the practical work. It is defined as retraining, specialisation within a profession; expansion of the professional profile; probation within a profession, i.e. post-qualifying education or continuous professional development. The system of postgraduate training serves as a ground for lifelong learning.\n\nThere is a long tradition and pride in this kind of educational provision for ‘continuing education’ and for ‘social inclusion’, that continues today. Lifelong learning (LLL) is conceptualized on the one hand as the progression through academic qualifications: Bachelor, Specialist, Master, Candidate of Science, Doctor of Science. On the other hand, it also covers a wide range of educational courses designed for: ‘second chance’ students; for those who wish to change occupations; for on-the-job training for citizens in employment; for updating professionals; for second diplomas where only the specialist part of the curriculum needs to be followed; and to provide secondary school certificate for those who left school without qualification.\n\nAt the doctoral level, Ukraine has a two-degree system. The first qualification is the Candidate of Sciences (scientific degree of \"Kandydat Nauk\") which normally requires at least three years of study after the award of the Specialist or the Master diploma and is achieved by submitting and defending a thesis (dissertation), as well as following post-graduate studies (\"aspirantura\") in the specialist field. The second qualification is the Doctor of Sciences (scientific degree of \"Doktor Nauk\"), the highest degree in Ukraine which is achieved by dissertation that must make an original contribution to a given field of learning, and after a period of further studies (\"doktorantura\") following the award of Kandidat Nauk degree.\n\nDoctoral study programmes (post-graduate course, aspirantura – for Kandydat Nauk degree and doctoral course, doktorantura – for Doktor Nauk degree) can be opened in higher education institutions of the third and fourth levels of accreditation or in research institutes and their branches.\n\nThe two doctoral degrees can be earned in two ways: as a result of studies in aspirantura and doktorantura or independently. The public defense of the dissertation is held in the form of a public presentation and scientific debates.\n\nProfessors have different ranks within the university system. For example a Dosent (Доцент) is analogous to an assistant professor in the United States.\n\nAccording to 2013 figures of the Minister of Education there are 61,000 foreign students in Ukraine.\n\nIn 2016 International Admission Center with support of Ministry of Education founded the Ukrainian Admission Center for foreign students\n\nAccording to Frances Cairncross (in April 2010) “There are too many small universities, the majority of which are ineffectively governed and mired in corruption. They are not able to withstand existing global challenges.” According to Anders Åslund (in October 2012) the quality of doctoral education is bad, particularly in management training, economics, law and languages. He also signaled that the greatest problem in the Ukrainian education system is corruption.\n\n76 higher education institutions and their branches were denied licenses by the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine in 2015 because of a perceived lack of quality (education).\n\nIn 2017, the highest average scores on the national entrance exam (External Independent Evaluation) were had by students entering the Ukrainian Catholic University, Taras Shevchenko National University of Kyiv, and the National University of Kyiv-Mohyla Academy.\n\nNo Ukrainian university has ever been ranked in the Academic Ranking of World Universities nor in the Performance Ranking of Scientific Papers for World Universities. However, the QS World University Rankings 2013/14 listed four Ukrainian HEIs including Taras Shevchenko National University of Kyiv (ranked 441-450), Kyiv Polytechnic Institute (601-650), Donetsk National University and Kharkiv Polytechnic Institute (both 701+). In the Webometrics Ranking of World Universities, Taras Shevchenko National University of Kyiv (838th) is the highest ranked university, Kyiv Polytechnic Institute, Kharkiv National University and Odessa University (1788th) are (also) ranked in the top 2000, and 303 are ranked lower than that (the lowest is Kherson State Maritime Academy at place 20,942). Four Ukrainian Universities were ranked in the Times Higher Education World University Rankings for the 2016-2017 school year, Lviv Polytechnic National University, Kyiv Polytechnic Institute, Taras Shevchenko National University of Kyiv, and the Karazin Kharkiv National University, which were all ranked in the 801+ category.\n\nIn 2012 Ukraine's Higher Education system was ranked as the top in Eastern Europe by Universitas 21, ahead of Czech Republic, Poland, Slovenia, Russia and Slovakia. The research group cited high Education spending as a proportion of GDP compared to other nations as a likely cause of Ukraine having the best post secondary system in East Europe.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1743555", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1743555", "title": "Japan Teachers Union", "text": "Japan Teachers Union\n\n, abbreviated , is Japan's largest and oldest labor union of teachers and school staff. The union is known for its critical stance against the conservative Liberal Democratic Party government on such issues as \"Kimi ga Yo\" (the national anthem), the Flag of Japan, and the screening of history textbooks since its near continuous one-party rule since 1945. It is affiliated to the trade union confederation Rengo. It had 290,857 members as of December 2009.\n\nEstablished in 1947, it was the largest teachers union until a split in the late 1980s. The union functioned as a national federation of prefectural teachers unions, although each of these unions had considerable autonomy and its own strengths and political orientation. Historically, there had been considerable antagonism between the union and the Ministry of Education, owing to a variety of factors. Some were political, because the stance of the union had been strongly leftist and it often opposed the more conservative Liberal Democratic Party. Another factor was the trade union perspective that the teachers union had on the profession of teaching. Additional differences on education issues concerned training requirements for new teachers, decentralization in education, school autonomy, curricula, textbook censorship, and, in the late 1980s, the reform movement.\n\nKarel van Wolferen describes the historical clashes between the Ministry of Education and the Union in \"The Enigma of Japanese Power\" (e.g., former Ministers coming from the Naimusho \"Thought Police\" of the 1930s, using thugs to systematically attack Union members and union meetings and eliminate elected Boards of Education).\n\nThe union tended to support the Japan Socialist Party, while a minority faction supported the Japan Communist Party. In the late 1980s, internal disagreements in the Japan Teachers Union on political orientation and on the union's relationships to other national labor organizations finally caused a rupture. The union thus became less effective than in previous years at a time when the national government and the Ministry were moving ahead on reform issues. The union had opposed many reforms proposed or instituted by the ministry, but it failed to forestall changes in certification and teacher training, two issues on which it was often at odds with the government. The new union leadership that emerged after several years of internal discord seemed to take a more conciliatory approach to the ministry and reform issues, but the union's future directions were not clear.\n\nThe National Union of General Workers (Zenkoku Ippan Rodo Kumiai) serves as the largest union representing foreign and migrant education workers in Japan.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21405934", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21405934", "title": "Jessica Hart (model)", "text": "Jessica Hart (model)\n\nJessica Hart (born 26 March 1986) is an Australian model who appeared in the 2009 \"Sports Illustrated Swimsuit Issue\". She was born in Sydney, Australia. She was discovered in Melbourne and has appeared on the cover of Australian \"Vogue\".\n\nHart attended Sophia Mundi Steiner School in Abbotsford, Victoria until she was noticed at the age of 15 at a local shopping centre. Another story of her rise to fame has her encouraged by an aunt to enter a modeling competition hosted by \"Dolly Magazine\" in 2000. She won the competition with her mother, Rae, and sister, Ashley, as witnesses at Crown Casino. She is known for a gap-tooth smile. Her sister, Ashley Hart, is also a model.\n\nHart moved to New York City to pursue a career in modeling and has appeared in campaigns for Guess, Triumph and Esprit. Hart shot her Swimsuit Issue photos in Mexico in November 2008.\n\nIn 2008, she considered a role in an \"Entourage\"-like drama alongside Alyssa Sutherland. In May 2009, Australian media reported that Hart had signed on to appear in advertising for Victoria's Secret. With Heidi Klum, Karolina Kurkova and Adriana Lima all pregnant in the fall of 2009, Hart appeared extensively in the season's Victoria's Secret catalogs.\n\nHart was also in a few episodes of MTV's \"The City\" during its first season, in which she is shown dating Tamarama band member Nicolas Potts, her long-term boyfriend. \nShe has participated in Tamarama music videos, such as \"Everything To Me\" (alongside fellow Australian model Miranda Kerr) and \"Middle Of A Magazine\".\n\nIn 2010, Hart walked in the Spring/Summer 2011 shows for Gottex Swimwear, PPQ, Louise Gray, Emilio de la Moreno, Osman, Sass & bide, Julien MacDonald, Matthew Williamson, Antonio Berardi, Christopher Kane, David Koma, Giles Deacon, Charlie Le Mindu and Jon. In 2012 she became the face of the new Scotch And Soda line Été Blanc for Maison Scotch.\n\nIn early 2012, Jessica had a couple of minor accidents - breaking her ankle and then in a separate incident, cutting her foot on glass at a wedding, which led to nerve damage in her foot. This led to Jessica being on hiatus few months.\n\nHart walked the runway in the annual Victoria's Secret Fashion Show in 2012 and 2013. In March 2013, Hart walked for Louis Vuitton at Paris Fashion Week and in September, for Dolce and Gabbana and Max Mara at Milan Fashion Week.\n\nIn January 2014, Hart once again appeared on the cover of Australian \"Vogue\". In February and March, Hart walked for designers including Sonia Rykiel and Rag & Bone at Fall/Winter New York Fashion Week and Paris Fashion Week, appeared on the covers of British \"GQ\" and French \"L'Officiel\", the former alongside Chris O'Dowd. Hart also shot campaigns for Victoria's Secret Body and Andrew Marc and walked for Marc Jacobs at Spring/Summer New York Fashion Week. In October, Hart was featured on the cover of Australian \"Cosmopolitan\" and in November, the Greek edition. Hart has also appeared on the cover of \"Harper's Bazaar\" (Australia, Mexico, Greece, Czech Republic), \"Marie Claire\" Italia, \"Elle\" (Italy, Spain, Australia, Argentina, Serbia), \"L'Officiel\" (Paris, Switzerland, Singapore, Turkey, Australia). Hart has also shot editorials for American \"Vogue\", \"Love\" and \"V\".\n\nIn 2015, Hart was shot alongside Gigi Hadid by Bruce Weber for American \"Vogue\". She then walked for Vionnet at Paris Fashion Week.\n\nHart and her then-boyfriend, Tamarama band member and fellow Australian Nicolas Potts, purchased a $1-million one-bedroom property in Manhattan's Battery Park during the summer of 2008. Hart also purchased her mother, Rae, a Holden car for her birthday. Hart and Potts mutually ended their long-term relationship in 2010. In 2011 she began dating Stavros Niarchos III, a Greek billionaire. In July 2017, a representative for Hart confirmed she and Niarchos had ended their relationship.\n\n"}
{"id": "29279914", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29279914", "title": "Julian Patrick", "text": "Julian Patrick\n\nJulian Patrick (26 October 1927 - 8 May 2009) was an American operatic baritone and voice teacher. Born in Mississippi, Patrick grew up in Birmingham, Alabama where he was a member of the Apollo Boys Choir. After graduating from the Cincinnati Conservatory of Music, he began his professional career as a musical theatre performer in the 1950s; appearing in the original Broadway productions of \"The Golden Apple\" (1954), \"Bells Are Ringing\" (1956), \"Juno\" (1959), \"Once Upon a Mattress\" (1959), and \"Fiorello!\" (1959). He also studied singing privately in New York City with Cornelius L. Reid.\n\nAfter the 1950s Patrick worked mainly as a performer in operas, making appearances at the Dallas Opera, the De Nederlandse Opera, the Grand Théâtre de Genève, the Houston Grand Opera, the Lyric Opera of Chicago, the Metropolitan Opera, the Opéra national du Rhin, the San Francisco Opera, the Vienna Volksoper, and the Welsh National Opera among other major opera houses. In 1968 he starred as Private Don Hanwell in the world premiere of Hugo Weisgall's \"Nine Rivers from Jordan\" at the New York City Opera. He was particularly active with the Seattle Opera where he notably created the role of George Milton in the world premiere of Carlisle Floyd's \"Of Mice and Men\" in 1970. He also taught on the music faculty of the University of Washington for many years. He died at the age of 81 while on vacation in Santa Fe, New Mexico. He was survived by his life partner of 56 years, Donn Talenti.\n\n"}
{"id": "27165796", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27165796", "title": "Justin Georgescu", "text": "Justin Georgescu\n\nJustin Georgescu (June 11, 1922 – August 1942) was a Romanian communist activist and anti-fascist militant assassinated in police custody during World War II.\n\nBorn in Bucharest, Romania's capital, in 1922, Justin Georgescu became an orphan at an early age. After finishing primary school, in 1933 he entered in the Matei Basarab High School, where he was one of the top students. By autumn 1939, Georgescu took contact with communist ideals, becoming a member of the clandestine Union of Communist Youth (UTC). In the following months he took part in several action of the group, spreading manifestos and leaflets against Carol II's authoritarian regime and its alignment with Hitler's Germany. He also organized a protest of the students with communist sympathies against an initiative of his high school that would have eliminated poor students. Soon after, the UTC nominated him as leader of a \"technical group\", responsible for propaganda work in Bucharest's Green Sector.\n\nIn 1941, Georgescu enrolled in the Faculty of Letters of the University of Bucharest, and in spring 1942 he was elected a member in the leadership of the university's UTC cell. There he continued the anti-fascist propaganda by spreading manifestos condemning the pro-fascist dictatorship of \"Conducător\" Ion Antonescu and Romania's collaboration with Nazi Germany in the invasion of the Soviet Union, as well as presenting the achievements of the Soviet Army and of the other European resistance movements in the fight against the Axis powers. Manifestos also demanded that Romania sign a separate peace with the Allies.\n\nOn August 29, 1942 he was arrested while going to a secret meeting of the UTC. After being tortured in Bucharest's Police Headquarters, he was ultimately killed. In an attempt to cover the murder, and present it as a suicide, his body was thrown out of a window.\n\nAfter the Romanian Communist Party came to power in Romania, Justin Georgescu, along other young Romanian anti-fascists fallen during World War II, was honoured as a \"Hero of the youth\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37747682", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37747682", "title": "Keshet Eilon", "text": "Keshet Eilon\n\nKeshet Eilon (Hebrew: קשת אילון) is a music center established in the year 1990, located in Kibbutz Eilon, Israel. Its mission is to be a source of strength and support for young gifted violinists. Every summer Keshet Eilon holds a three-week-long international violin seminar. The students come from different countries throughout the world and the participating teachers are prominent violinists and violin teachers.\n\nKeshet Eilon music center and master courses have been established in Eilon in the Western Galilee in the year 1990, to support 12 young violin students, sons and daughters of immigrating families from the former Soviet Union. In the year 1991 the non-profit organization Keshet Eilon was formed, which aims to train and promote young violinists from Israel and throughout the world who are intent on attaining the highest musical level.\n\nKeshet Eilon is involved in a variety of activities\n\nSummer seminar and master classes\n\nEvery year a three week long international seminar is being held in Kibbutz Eilon, where students attend private lessons and master classes with prominent violin masters, Haim Taub, Edward Grach, Itzhak Rashkovsky, Ani Schnarch, Vadim Gluzman and Hagai Shaham, to name just a few. In the evenings they give concerts at the local music hall. During the seminar a violin building workshop operates and students receive training in the art of archery. At the end of the seminar a gala concert is held in Tel Aviv.\n\nEach year about 50 violin students from around the world attend the seminar, accompanied by other string instrument players and pianists. Keshet Eilon alumni live in Israel and in 50 different countries worldwide.\n\nKeshet Eilon Seminars for Israeli Violin students and teachers\n\nEvery year since 2002 Keshet Eilon holds seminars for Israeli violin students and teachers. The participants, 7–20 years of age, arrive from all parts of the country. Among them are Arab and Druze violinists. These are intensive events of studies and playing, which last for three days.\n\nA limited number of pupils from abroad are accepted to the Seminars. Instruction in English is available for these pupils.\n\nConcerts and Events\n\nDuring each year the Keshet Eilon local music hall holds a music series which includes string ensembles, recitals, choirs and folk music.\n\nA Campus for the Keshet Eilon Music Center\n\nA campus of the Keshet Eilon Music Center is about to be built on a 28 dunam (7 acre) plot, allotted by Kibbutz Eilon. This enterprise will offer new employment opportunities, stimulate cultural tourism with year-round roster of music events, and attract new residents all year long. The new music center's urban building scheme has already been authorized and construction is soon to begin.\n\n"}
{"id": "21860928", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21860928", "title": "Learning Link (Ghana)", "text": "Learning Link (Ghana)\n\nLearning Link Ghana is a UK-based registered charity. Its mission is to support the advancement of education of children in Kumasi, Ghana, and in particular the City of Kumasi Preparatory School, by providing or assisting in the provision of facilities, which would not be otherwise available. It arranges sponsorship for children who, because of poverty, would miss the opportunity to receive basic education, especially girls and children with special educational needs. In addition, it aims to promote friendship and exchange programmes between children in Ghana and the UK.\n\nLearning Link Ghana was founded in 1999 by Frank Nkansa-Dwamena.\n\nFrank's father, Nana Nkansa-Dwamena, founded the City of Kumasi School, in Kumasi, Ghana, in 1966 and remained as Principal until his death in 1998, at which time Frank returned to Ghana to become the Managing Director of the school.\n\nFrank is a former Head of Special Education at the London Borough of Brent. On his retirement, Frank recognised the potential for using the experience of educationists in the UK to benefit children in Ghana. He invited a number of his ex-colleagues to join him, and the charity was registered in 2000.\n\nThe charity celebrated its ten-year anniversary on 5 March 2009.\n\nThe charity is chaired by Gladys Nkansa-Dwamena with Vice-Chair Eugene Nkansa-Dwamena. It consists of two trustees Mrs Averill Lovatt and Mrs Jill Morgan both retired educationists who look after the sponsorship side of the charity. Patrons of the charity are Jenni Smith, a valued and respected trustee of LLG for fourteen years, working tirelessly to support the children of the school. She was one of Frank’s colleagues in Brent and was invited to become involved in Learning Link Ghana. She became Chair in 2000 when the charity became registered and held that position until 2009. Jenni’s interest in Africa began when, as a young teacher, she travelled to Tanzania in East Africa to teach primary school children when her husband was appointed to the Food and Agricultural Organisation of United Nations to organize veterinary research work.\n\nJenni returned to London three years later and after her ten years at home looking after her children, she re-qualified as an educational psychologist and has worked in several local educational authorities. In 1993/4 she visited Zimbabwe and was involved in teacher training there. Jenni remained in educational work until 2006 when she retired as Principal Educational Psychologist (Acting) in Waltham Forest, East London. Knowledge and love of Africa has underpinned her interest in being an active member of Learning Link Ghana.\n\nJonathan Braham: Jonathan Braham was born in Jamaica and educated there and in the United Kingdom. He eschewed working in the family business, taught English at private schools, worked as an editor in a publishing company, as producer in a television company and later set up an advertising agency. When that failed in the recession of the late 1970s he returned to his first love – writing. He’d written his first novel when he was sixteen years old, and many short stories for the Jamaica Broadcasting Corporation radio programme, Jamaica Woman, while still at school. He’s written for radio, newspapers, theatre, the Jamaica Journal, and won awards for his work in the Jamaica Literary Festival. He arrived in London intending to publish but after a year had a change of direction and found himself working in a fascinating area of work – Education Welfare. Since 1990 he has been director of the Education Welfare Service in a Local Authority in London.\n\nThe Reverend David Nash: David Nash is a Church of England priest who retired in 2008, having served over forty years in ministry mostly in North London parishes. During this time he served as Area Dean of Enfield, and later, of Central Barnet. In addition he was for ten years a clergy selector, and for seven years a tutor on the Edmonton Area Christian Studies Course. Currently he assists in local parishes in Enfield where he and his wife Bridget now live. He is also a member of the pastoral team of St Paul's Cathedral. He enjoys reading and keeping up with current affairs, dabbling with art and pottering in the garden.\n\nMrs Bridget Nash: Bridget Nash, wife of David, retired in 2009 as a senior social worker with Barnet Child and Adolescent Mental Health Service where she served for 17 years. After graduating at Manchester University, she spent a year as a VSO volunteer at St Monica's School, Mampong, in Ghana and she is still in regular touch with a number of the volunteers and teachers who were serving there at the same time. She and David have four children and three grandchildren so there will be few empty spaces in their retirement plans.\n\nMr Geoffrey Smith: Geoff is a veterinary surgeon, now retired, whose working life was spent in carrying out research into infectious diseases of animals, at the Moredun Institute in Edinburgh and the Zoological Society of London, with an intervening period of three years in Tanzania as an adviser for the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organisation. During his working life, he also visited and advised in other parts of Africa (Kenya, Sudan, Zimbabwe, Nigeria, Ghana) and South America (Paraguay, Bolivia).\n\nA full list of all current trustees and financial information about the charity can be found on the Charity Commission's website. The charity's registration number is 1081329.\n\nLearning Link Ghana creates partnerships between the City of Kumasi school and schools in the UK, which hold their own sponsorship events to raise funds for children in Ghana. Current partner schools included Ravenscroft Technology College now Totteridge Academy. Monken Hadley CE School in Barnet, and FitzWimarc School in Rayleigh, Essex.\n\nWe have had links with Monken Hadley Church of England Primary school since 2006. This is a small single entry primary school in North London, Barnet, where pupils, parents and staff at the school have supported Learning Link Ghana through sponsored events such as a 'Sponsored Bounce', sales of the school magazine, and through running a stall at the school’s Christmas and Summer Fairs.\n\nThe Ravenscroft School (now The Totteridge Academy) is a Technology College in North London. Sponsorship from Ravenscroft was facilitated through the Interact Group, which is a group of sixth formers who meet with a representative of the local Barnet Rotary Club to support and help people in the community. The international theme was developed through the Rotary Club and in 2007 the Interact Group sponsored a teenaged pupil at the City of Kumasi Preparatory School through taking a collection at the Christmas Carol Service. They have continued their support by making and selling cakes to raise adequate funds.\n\nLLG has been linked with FitzWimarc School in Rayleigh, Essex since 2009. Fitz is a large 11-16 comprehensive school that has an excellent reputation in its local area and outstanding examination results. The link with LLG and the City of Kumasi School was established by the then Head of Geography, Miss Julia Hammond, who was able to visit the school in February 2010 and again in 2011.\n\n\nCurrent and future projects include:\n\n\n\nTackling the learning crisis in Ghana’s education system\n\n61 years of education in Ghana\n"}
{"id": "32048978", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32048978", "title": "Lecture consultant", "text": "Lecture consultant\n\nA lecture consultant is an independent consultant who helps lecturers and institutions with the delivery of teaching, with particular focus on pedagogy and communication.\n\nThe role is analogous to that of an educational consultant, but rather than providing independent consulting advice to parents/students, they provide consulting advice to teachers. As with the accountability purpose of the educational consultant role, consultant lecturers keep lecturers accountable by ensuring lecturers have met the requisite standard for Shum's Three Forces, a framework for educational industry analysis:\n\nConsulting lecturers help with pre-class planning including syllabus writing to ensure state bylaw requirements relating to education are met. For example, in South Australia, this would include assisting teachers to follow the SSABSA guidelines relating to the South Australian Certificate of Education.\n\nIn the classroom, consulting lecturers provide advice on improving communication effectiveness, including both verbal and nonverbal communication, including visual and kinesthetic techniques.\n\nIn some institutions, the role of the lecture consultant is governed by a Department of Learning and Teaching.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47056805", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47056805", "title": "List of archives in Italy", "text": "List of archives in Italy\n\nThis is list of archives in Italy.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52002298", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52002298", "title": "National Centre for Biotechnology Education", "text": "National Centre for Biotechnology Education\n\nThe National Centre for Biotechnology Education (NCBE) is a national resource centre at the University of Reading to teach pre-university biotechnology in schools in the UK.\n\nIt began as the National Centre for School Biotechnology (NCSB) in 1985 in the Department of Microbiology. It became the NCBE in 1990. For many years it was the only centre in Europe that was devoted to the teaching of biotechnology in schools. The Dolan DNA Learning Center had been set up in the USA.\n\nIt was set up as an education project by the Society for General Microbiology, now the Microbiology Society. Money from the Laboratory of the Government Chemist set up the National Centre for School Biotechnology (NCSB). Money also came from the Gatsby Charitable Foundation. For the first five years, the UK government's DTI was involved, but from 1990 onwards wanted the organization to become self-supporting as it had to cut back on budgets. By 1992 the government provided no money for the centre. \n\nThe site was set up in former buildings of the University of Reading's Department of Microbiology. \n\nIt reaches out to schools to give up-to-date information on biotechnology. Biotechnology is a rapidly evolving subject, and schools cannot keep up-to-date with all that they would be required to know. It produces educational resources. It runs the Microbiology in Schools Advisory Committee (MISAC).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30322189", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30322189", "title": "National Healthy Schools Programme", "text": "National Healthy Schools Programme\n\nThe National Healthy Schools Programme (NHSP) was a joint Department of Health and Department for Children, Schools and Families project intended to improve health, raise pupil achievement, improve social inclusion and encourage closer working between health and education providers in the United Kingdom.\n\nThe Programme started in 1998 and formed part of the strategy described in the Department for Children, Schools and Families' Children’s Plan (DCSF 2007) and in the Department of Health's Healthy Weight, healthy Lives (DH 2008).\n\nIt had four themes, each with its own criteria:\n\nThe National Healthy Schools Status is an award made under the scheme to schools which have achieved the four criteria.\n\nThe school must undergo a self validation as follows:- \n\nThe Government has set a target for all schools to work towards achieving National Healthy Schools Status, more than 97% are participating in the scheme and 75% achieved this by December 2009.\n\nThe system was created and designed technically by contractor Eugene Le Roux with 'systems' design input from National Healthy Schools Programme National Adviser Stuart G. Hall.\n"}
{"id": "397880", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=397880", "title": "Norrington Table", "text": "Norrington Table\n\nThe Norrington Table is an annual ranking of the colleges of the University of Oxford based on a score computed from the fraction of undergraduate students earning each of the various degree classifications based on that year's final examinations.\n\nThe rankings of each college in the Norrington Table are calculated by awarding 5 points for a student who receives a First Class degree, 3 points for a 2:1, 2 for a 2:2 and 1 for a Third; the total is then divided by the maximum possible score (i.e. the number of finalists in that college multiplied by 5), and the result for each college is expressed as a percentage, rounded to 2 decimal places. Although the difference between the highest places on the table is usually very slight, the top colleges remain very competitive about their rankings in the Table. Their competitiveness has been heightened in recent years by increased media attention towards the rankings.\n\nPreviously the university had refused to endorse an official table, leading to inaccuracies (see Criticisms below), so the university finally published its own rankings using examination results from all final year undergraduates in 2005.\n\nContrary to popular belief, the Norrington Table was not created in 1962 by Sir Arthur Norrington, who was then president of Trinity College. Norrington did not invent the idea of producing a table of the results of Oxford Colleges. Rather, he suggested a refinement to the weightings given to results by a pre-existing table. Norrington's scoring system was suggested in 1963 and abandoned after 1985, owing to changes in the Oxford examination system.\n\nOn 5 September 1963, Norrington had a letter published in \"The Times\", in which he objected to the table that their correspondent had invented two days earlier (3 September 1963, p. 12). \"The Times\" had previously published a table of Oxford Colleges' results in 1962 (29 August 1962, p. 5).\n\nNorrington wrote: \"Your Correspondent has analysed the final examination results this year and gives an order of merit, among the first colleges, based on the percentage of Firsts and Seconds. This, in effect, is the same as basing it on the percentage of Thirds, and gives it no extra credit for Firsts. College A, for example, that gets 20 Firsts, 60 Seconds, and 20 Thirds scores less by this method than College B that gets no Firsts, 81 Seconds and 19 Thirds, but surely A has, in reality, done much better than B. A better result, I submit, is obtained by a points system in which a First scores more than a second and a Second more than a Third. If you make the points 3, 2, and 1 respectively and calculate what percentage of its \"possible\" each college has secured, you will find that College A, with 200 points out of 300, has scored 66.67 per cent, and B, with 181, only 60 per cent. This method of calculation will be found to promote Magdalen and Merton, which come surprisingly low in your Correspondent's order.\" (5 September 1963, p. 13)\n\nIn 1986, when Oxford for the first time split Second Class honours into Upper Seconds and Lower Seconds, \"The Times\" unilaterally adopted the Tompkins Table, which gives more weight to a First class degree: five points for a First, three for a 2.1, two for a 2.2, and one for a Third. This system was invented in 1981 by Peter Tompkins, of Birkenhead, as a method of classifying the results of Cambridge colleges, and a table compiled by Tompkins on this basis was published on 28 August by \"The Times\" (28 Aug 1981, p. 10) alongside a table using the Norrington scoring system, which had been compiled by the \"Cambridge Evening News\". The Tompkins Table became the preferred rating for Cambridge colleges and has prevailed for Oxford colleges, too, since 1986.\n\nBelow is the Norrington Table for the academic year 2017/18 along with mean values of the period 2006 to 2016:\nNorrington Table rankings from 2006 to 2016 by college, ordered by mean score (note that Campion Hall hardly ever has any undergraduates):\n\nThe table is biased towards colleges with above average proportions of students in science subjects such as chemistry and mathematics, for which a higher proportion attain a First Class degree compared to humanities (for which more students attain a 2.1). The corresponding Tompkins Table at Cambridge makes an adjustment for this feature.\n\nJohn Lucas, Fellow of Merton, presented a critique of the Norrington Table in a 1980 article titled \"Norrington Blues\".\n"}
{"id": "16081091", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16081091", "title": "Pneumatic larynx", "text": "Pneumatic larynx\n\nA pneumatic larynx is a device that is used to help a person talk after a laryngectomy. It uses air to produce a humming sound, which is converted to speech by movement of the lips, tongue, and velum.\n\n"}
{"id": "586666", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=586666", "title": "Point Park University", "text": "Point Park University\n\nPoint Park University is a liberal arts university in downtown Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. Formerly known as Point Park College, the school name was revised in 2004 to reflect the number of graduate programs being offered.\n\nPoint Park University is a comprehensive doctoral-level university with a liberal arts tradition, and is located in the heart of Downtown Pittsburgh. Point Park enrolls more than 3,800 full-and part-time students in 82 undergraduate programs and 18 graduate programs offered through its School of Arts and Sciences, School of Business, School of Communication and the Conservatory of Performing Arts.\n\nThe university began in 1933 as a one-room business school called Business Training College with an initial enrollment of 50 students, under the direction of Dorothy Finkelhor, a New York native, and her husband, L. Herbert Finkelhor. At the time, it was notable for a woman to found such an institution. Finkelhor provided her students with business and secretarial skills. At the same time, she served in multiple roles as teacher, the dean of women, social chairman, janitor, telephone operator, admissions and finance director, and registrar.\n\nBy 1960, the business school had grown to nearly 880 students and moved to the university's current academic center, Academic Hall, on Wood Street in central Downtown Pittsburgh. The Finkelhors' small secretarial school became Point Park Junior College, named for the city's historic Point State Park. The junior college added two-year programs in engineering technology, education and journalism. It also acquired performing arts space at The Pittsburgh Playhouse in the Oakland neighborhood. Five years later, the college was granted four-year status, officially becoming Point Park College. Dance and theatre programs were introduced. These programs laid the groundwork for Point Park's current Conservatory of Performing Arts.\n\nThirty-four years after forming the college, Dorothy Finkelhor retired in 1967. The school's reins remained within the family as son-in-law Arthur M. Blum assumed the presidency. Blum purchased the Sherwyn Hotel, a 20-story building across from Academic Hall, which became David L. Lawrence Hall. The hall currently contains most of the school's social and entertaining facilities, as well as classrooms, offices and residential facilities.\n\nBlum's Lawrence Hall investment continues to benefit the school. Blum also established a campus in Lugano, Switzerland. A gift from Lester Hamburg brought the school a conference center in Portersville, Pennsylvania.\n\nJohn V. Hopkins succeeded Blum.\n\nWith the budget climbing out of the red, the school began a slow healing process into the 1980s. Enrollment grew beyond 1,000 students. At the same time, the school introduced its first postgraduate degree, a master's degree in journalism and mass communication.\n\nJ. Matthew Simon served as the college's next president from 1986 to 1995, providing nearly a decade of relative calm in the institution's turbulent history. Simon oversaw the acquisition of a new library, program growth and the school's largest endowment. Simon retired in 2007, having taught at Point Park as a professor in the department of Natural Sciences and Engineering Technology after his tenure as president.\n\nAnother crisis came with the election of James Hunter as president. Hunter, Point Park's most controversial leader, served for a little over a year but managed to garner outcry for an admissions scandal and a breakdown of communication within the school.\n\nAt the same time, growth remained slow in the city, and Pittsburgh's economy still had not recovered from the collapse of the steel industry. The college's finances suffered, and Point Park again neared bankruptcy. Negotiations began with Duquesne University to sell what remained of Point Park College to the larger school.\n\nHunter resigned amidst the melee, and Katherine Henderson was appointed president by the board of trustees soon after.\n\nHenderson implemented a strategic plan to revive the college. Plans to sell the school were abandoned as Henderson began another procedural overhaul.\n\nHenderson's tenure became the most successful for Point Park. During the late ’90s, budget woes disintegrated as enrollment rose to over 3,000 students and the endowment grew by over 200 percent. Point Park finished major renovations of its existing buildings soon after the turn of the century.\n\nBy 2004, the school hit a new high-water mark and successfully applied for university status. It was officially renamed Point Park University that year, and the administration began an aggressive $1 million branding campaign to attract more enrollment.\n\nHenderson retired in 2006 while on a self-imposed sabbatical.\n\nThe board of trustees officially named Paul Hennigan as Henderson's permanent successor at the beginning of the 2006 fall term. Hennigan has continued the process of creating a new strategic plan. As part of the plan, the university has purchased several Downtown properties for development. Point Park is also poised to become a key player in the city's efforts for Downtown revitalization, owning properties along the coveted Fifth and Forbes corridor.\n\nThe university partnered with a private contractor to renovate two historic buildings into suite-style residence halls. One of these residence halls became home to a Starbucks in August 2007. The coffee shop is the first full-service retail entity incorporated into Point Park's campus.\n\nA $16 million state-of-the-art dance complex opened in 2007. The complex includes five rehearsal and performance studios, and recently received Gold LEED certification from the U.S. Green Building Council. Located in the heart of Downtown Pittsburgh, the complex is home to the George Rowland White Performance Studio, a 188-seat convertible performance space.\n\nPoint Park purchased the building occupied by the YMCA of Greater Pittsburgh on the Boulevard of the Allies in the spring of 2008. In September 2010, the newly renovated former YMCA building reopened as the interim Student Center with exercise and fitness facilities and equipment, a gymnasium, meeting space and much more.\n\nThe university is currently creating a \"New Academic Village\" that will make the school, and downtown, a vibrant area for students. With the introduction of this initiative, Point Park has evolved into one of the largest investors in Downtown Pittsburgh real estate development.\n\nPoint Park University is a not-for-profit educational institution registered under section 501(c)(3) of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code.\n\nIn 2016, Point Park University added a new center for journalism at the former location of Nathan's Famous hot dogs. \"Located at Wood Street and Third Avenue, the 4,000-square-foot center will have floor-to-ceiling glass walls, flat-screen televisions and a digital ticker that offers a New York City-style media hub where passersby can be entertained and informed as students learn their craft.\"\n\nPoint Park University offers more than 90 undergraduate and graduate degree programs, and is divided into four schools: School of Arts & Sciences, School of Business, School of Communication and Conservatory of Performing Arts.\n\n\n\nPoint Park is situated about half a mile from Point State Park, the university's name sake, in the city's Golden Triangle. The school is in the midst of the business district situated near PPG Place, one of the skyline's most recognizable buildings, and the brand new LEED Platinum Certified headquarters of PNC Bank. The physical campus is mostly vertical, with buildings scattered intermittently among non-school structures. Point Park also owns the Pittsburgh Playhouse in the Oakland neighborhood. Since the campus is not continuous, the school has used the phrase \"Pittsburgh is our campus\" in its literature.\n\nBecause of its Downtown locale, the school is within walking distance of the Cultural District and the city's sports facilities, PNC Park, PPG Paints Arena, and Heinz Field. It is also close to Pittsburgh's major nightlife areas on the Southside, in Station Square, and in the Strip District. Nearly 1,000 full-time undergraduate students live on campus. The majority of Point Park students commute to campus.\n\nWith 15 existing buildings and other properties that run from the Monongahela River to Forbes Avenue, the university has one of the largest footprints in Downtown Pittsburgh.\n\nPoint Park University is accredited by the\nMiddle States Association of Colleges & Schools Commission on Higher Education and approved by the Pennsylvania Department of Education.\n\nFreshmen Admission:\n\nTest scores:\nWPPJ (670 AM) is Point Park University's campus radio station. This unlicensed carrier-current station was established in 1967 and is known as \"The Voice of Point Park\". It is a co-curricular activity for students with an interest in radio, news, sports, contemporary/popular music, media sales and promotions. WPPJ also serves as a training facility for students of any major who desire a career in professional broadcasting. The station is an open-format college radio station, playing primarily indie rock and hip-hop, with a fair number of sports and talk radio shows. The music department charts independent artists with CMJ. The 28th Annual WPPJ Rock-a-Thon was held from October 28–31, 2008, at the university, raising over $3,700 for the Early Learning Institute, a charity for families in Allegheny County, due to the efforts of sales director, Anthony Pignetti.\n\nPoint Park teams, nicknamed athletically as the Pioneers, are part of the National Association of Intercollegiate Athletics (NAIA), primarily competing in the River States Conference (RSC). The Pioneers formerly competed as a member of the American Mideast Conference until its dissolution during the 2011–12 academic year. Men's sports include baseball, basketball, cross country, golf and soccer. However, baseball is the dominant sport of the university, bringing home the most championships. Women's sports include basketball, cross country, golf, soccer, softball and volleyball.\n\nPoint Park joined the RSC in the 2012–13 academic year. The RSC is an NAIA conference that was founded in 1916 as the Kentucky Intercollegiate Athletic Conference, and adopted its current name starting with the 2016–17 school year. With the addition of Point Park and Carlow University in 2012, the RSC grew to a membership of 11 institutions; it has since expanded to 13.\n\nThe Point Park Pioneers logo prominently displays the school name as well as the nickname for the sports teams – Pioneers. A central figure is the bison, which has long been a mascot for the school. The bison was first used as a school mascot in the 1967–68 school year, the first year of intercollegiate competition versus four-year institutions.\n\nThe bison became a mascot for the school in 1967 when the Alpha Phi Omega fraternity teamed with the Varsity Club to acquire a live bison. The bison was named Black Diamond II in reference to the Black Diamond bison on the reverse side of the U.S. nickel at the time. It was kept at South Park and was a featured attraction at parades on the Boulevard of the Allies as well as at sporting events.\nBlack Diamond II was widely popular at Point Park and was a source of pride for the entire school. Although Black Diamond II eventually died, it remains a fixture at the school at present day.\n\nAlso prominently displayed is the Downtown Pittsburgh environment of which Point Park is a part. In the back left are iconic pieces of the Pittsburgh skyline, and in the back right are two central pieces to the Point Park campus – Lawrence Hall and Academic Hall. Included is the pedestrian bridge above Wood Street that connects the two Point Park buildings. The shape at the bottom of the logo is representative of the bastions of Fort Duquesne and Fort Pitt, which were once located in the area now known as Point State Park. Point Park University derives its name from Point State Park, which is located at the meeting place of the Allegheny and Monongahela rivers. Point State Park is just a few blocks from the University's campus.\n\nAfter a 1962 visit to Pittsburgh the producer and creator of the \"Rocky and Bullwinkle\" cartoon is rumored to have used Lawrence Hall as the inspiration for the cartoons opening where Rocky the flying squirrel takes off from the building's roof to Bullwinkle below.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "420020", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=420020", "title": "Preschool", "text": "Preschool\n\nA preschool, also known as nursery school, pre-primary school, playschool or kindergarten, is an educational establishment or learning space offering early childhood education to children before they begin compulsory education at primary school. It may be publicly or privately operated, and may be subsidized from public funds.\n\nTerminology varies by country. In some European countries the term \"kindergarten\" refers to formal education of children classified as \"ISCED level 0\" - with one or several years of such education being compulsory - before children start primary school at \"ISCED level 1\".\n\nThe following terms may be used for educational establishments for this age group:\n\n\n\nIn an age when school was restricted to children who had already learned to read and write at home, there were many attempts to make school accessible to orphans or to the children of women who worked in factories.\n\nIn 1779, Johann Friedrich Oberlin and Louise Scheppler founded in Strassbourg an early establishment for caring for and educating pre-school children whose parents were absent during the day. At about the same time, in 1780, similar infant establishments were established in Bavaria In 1802, Pauline zur Lippe established a preschool center in Detmold.\n\nIn 1816, Robert Owen, a philosopher and pedagogue, opened the first British and probably globally the first infant school in New Lanark, Scotland. In conjunction with his venture for cooperative mills Owen wanted the children to be given a good moral education so that they would be fit for work. His system was successful in producing obedient children with basic literacy and numeracy.\n\nSamuel Wilderspin opened his first infant school in London in 1819, and went on to establish hundreds more. He published many works on the subject, and his work became the model for infant schools throughout England and further afield. Play was an important part of Wilderspin's system of education. He is credited with inventing the playground. In 1823, Wilderspin published \"On the Importance of Educating the Infant Poor\", based on the school. He began working for the Infant School Society the next year, informing others about his views. He also wrote \"The Infant System, for developing the physical, intellectual, and moral powers off all children from 1 to seven years of age\".\n\nCountess Theresa Brunszvik (1775–1861), who had known and been influenced by Johann Heinrich Pestalozzi, was influenced by this example to open an \"Angyalkert\" ('angel garden' in Hungarian) on 27 May 1828 in her residence in Buda, the first of eleven care centers that she founded for young children. In 1836 she established an institute for the foundation of preschool centers. The idea became popular among the nobility and the middle class and was copied throughout the Hungarian kingdom.\nFriedrich Fröbel (1782–1852) opened a \"Play and Activity\" institute in 1837 in the village of Bad Blankenburg in the principality of Schwarzburg-Rudolstadt, Thuringia, which he renamed Kindergarten on 28 June 1840.\n\nWomen trained by Fröbel opened Kindergartens throughout Europe and around the World. The first kindergarten in the United States was founded in Watertown, Wisconsin in 1856 and was conducted in German. Elizabeth Peabody founded America's first English-language kindergarten in 1860 and the first free kindergarten in America was founded in 1870 by Conrad Poppenhusen, a German industrialist and philanthropist, who also established the Poppenhusen Institute and the first publicly financed kindergarten in the United States was established in St. Louis in 1873 by Susan Blow. Canada's first private kindergarten was opened by the Wesleyan Methodist Church in Charlottetown, Prince Edward Island in 1870 and by the end of the decade, they were common in large Canadian towns and cities. The country's first public-school kindergartens were established in Berlin, Ontario in 1882 at Central School. In 1885, the Toronto Normal School (teacher training) opened a department for Kindergarten teaching.\n\nElizabeth Harrison wrote extensively on the theory of early childhood education and worked to enhance educational standards for kindergarten teachers by establishing what became the National College of Education in 1886.\n\nHead Start was the first publicly funded preschool program in the US, created in 1965 by President Johnson for low-income families—only 10% of children were then enrolled in preschool. Due to large demand, various states subsidized preschool for low-income families in the 1980s.\n\nThe most important years of learning begin at birth. During these early years, humans are capable of absorbing more information than later on. The brain grows most rapidly in the early years. High quality teachers and preschools can have a long-term effect on improving outcomes for disadvantaged students.\n\nThe areas of development that preschool education covers varies. However, the following main themes are typically offered.\n\n\nPreschool systems observe standards for structure (administration, class size, student–teacher ratio, services), process (quality of classroom environments, teacher-child interactions, etc.) and alignment (standards, curriculum, assessments) components. Curriculum is designed for differing ages. For example, counting to 10 is generally after the age of four.\n\nSome studies dispute the benefits of preschool education, finding that preschool can be detrimental to cognitive and social development. A study by UC Berkeley and Stanford University on 14,000 preschools revealed that while there is a temporary cognitive boost in pre-reading and math, preschool holds detrimental effects on social development and cooperation. Research has also shown that the home environment has a greater impact on future outcomes than preschool.\n\nThere is emerging evidence that high-quality preschools are \"play based,\" rather than attempting to provide early formal instruction in academic subjects. \"Playing with other children, away from adults, is how children learn to make their own decisions, control their emotions and impulses, see from others' perspectives, negotiate differences with others, and make friends,\" according to Dr. Peter Gray, Boston College professor and an expert on the evolution of play and its vital role in child development. \"In short, play is how children learn to take control of their lives.\"\n\nPreschools have adopted various methods of teaching, such as Montessori, Waldorf, Head Start, HighScope, Reggio Emilia approach, Bank Street and Forest kindergartens.\n\nWhile a majority of American preschool programs remain tuition-based, support for some public funding of early childhood education has grown over the years. As of 2008, 38 states and the District of Columbia invested in at least some preschool programs, and many school districts were providing preschool services on their own, using local and federal funds. The United States spends .04% of its GDP or $63 billion on preschool education.\n\nThe benefits and challenges of a public preschool reflect the available funding. Funding can range from federal, state, local public allocations, private sources, and parental fees. The problem of funding a public preschool occurs not only from limited sources but from the cost per child. As of 2007, the average cost across the lower 48 states was $6,582. Four categories determine the costs of public preschools: personnel ratios, personnel qualifications, facilities and transportation, and health and nutrition services. These costs depend heavily on the cost and quality of services provided. The main personnel factor related to cost is teacher qualifications. Another determinant of cost is the length of the school day. Longer sessions cost more.\n\nCollaboration has helped fund programs in several districts. Collaborations with area Head Start and other private preschools helped fund a public preschool in one district. \"We're very pleased with the interaction. It's really added a dimension to our program that's been very positive\". The National Head Start Bureau has been looking for more opportunities to partner with public schools. Torn Schultz of the Bureau states, \"We're turning to partnership as much as possible, either in funds or facilities to make sure children get everything necessary to be ready for school\".\n\nThe Universal Preschool movement is an international effort to make preschool available to families, as it is for primary education. Various jurisdictions and advocates have differing priorities for access, availability and funding sources.\n\nIn the United States, most preschool advocates support the National Association for the Education of Young Children's Developmentally Appropriate Practices.\n\nThe National Association for the Education of Young Children (NAEYC) and the National Association of Child Care Professionals (NACCP) publicize and promote the idea of developmentally appropriate practice, although many institutions have not taken that approach. NAEYC claimed that although 80% of kindergarten classrooms claim to be developmentally appropriate, only 20% actually are.\n\nCurricula for pre-school children have long been a hotbed for debate. Much of this revolves around content and pedagogy; the extent to which academic content should be included in the curriculum and whether formal instruction or child-initiated exploration, supported by adults, is more effective. Proponents of an academic curriculum are likely to favour a focus on basic skills, especially literacy and \"numeracy\", and structured pre-determined activities for achieving related goals. Internationally, there is strong opposition to this type of early childhood care and education curriculum and defence of a broad-based curriculum that supports a child's overall development including health and physical development, emotional and spiritual well-being, social competence, intellectual development and communication skills. The type of document that emerges from this perspective is likely to be more open, offering a framework which teachers and parents can use to develop curricula specific to their contexts.\n\nPreschool education, like all other forms of education, is intended by the society that controls it to transmit important cultural values to the participants. As a result, different cultures make different choices about preschool education. Despite the variations, there are a few common themes. Most significantly, preschool is universally expected to increase the young child's ability to perform basic self-care tasks such as dressing, feeding, and toileting.\n\nThe study of early childhood education (ECE) in China has been intimately influenced by the reforms and progress of Chinese politics and the economy. Currently, the Chinese government has shown interest in early childhood education, implementing policies in the form of The Guidance for Kindergarten Education (Trial Version) in 2001 and The National Education Reform and Development of Long-Term Planning Programs (2010–2020) in 2010. It has been found that China's kindergarten education has dramatically changed since 1990. In recent years, various Western curricula and pedagogical models have been introduced to China, such as Montessori programs, Reggio Emilia, Developmentally Appropriate Practice (DAP), and the Project Approach. Many kindergartens have faced difficulties and challenges in adapting these models in their programs. Therefore, a heated debate about how the Western curricula can be appropriated in the Chinese cultural context has been initiated between early childhood researchers and practitioners. Research has revealed that the most important aim for promoting curriculum reform is to improve kindergarten teachers' professional knowledge, such as their understanding of the concept of play and pedagogy, and perceptions of inclusion and kindergarten-based curriculum. Furthermore, within the process of reform, family education and family collaborations cannot be ignored in child development.\nEarly childhood education in China has made dramatic progress since the 1980s. In Tobin, et al. 2009, which studies across three cultures, the continuity and change across the systems of early childhood education are evident. The project report Zhongguo Xueqian Jiaoyu Fazhan Zhanlue Yanjiu Ketizu 2010 reflects upon the development of China's early childhood education and locates the current situation of the development of early childhood education. The historical development of Chinese early childhood education indicates three distinct cultural threads, including traditional culture, communist culture, and Western culture, that have shaped early childhood education in China, as demonstrated in Zhu and Zhang 2008 and Lau 2012. Furthermore, currently, administrative authorities intend to establish an independent budget for the ECE field in order to support early childhood education in rural areas (Zhao and Hu 2008). A higher quality of educational provisions for children living in rural areas will be another goal for the Chinese government. Many researchers have detailed the important issues of early childhood education, especially teacher education. The exploratory study in Hu and Szente 2010 (cited under Early Childhood Inclusive Education) has indicated that Chinese kindergarten teachers hold negative attitudes toward inclusion of children with disabilities, as they do not have enough knowledge and skills for working with this population. This indicates that kindergarten teachers need to improve their perceptions of children with disabilities. Furthermore, Gu 2007 has focused on the issues of new early childhood teachers' professional development and puts forward some feasible suggestions about how new teachers deal with key events in their everyday teaching practices. With regard to families' support of their children's early development at home, family education should be focused and the collaborative partnership between kindergarten and family needs to be enhanced. Teachers' attitudes toward family intervention are a vital aspect of teacher-family collaboration. Therefore, kindergarten teachers should support family members in their role as the child's first teacher and build collaborative partnerships with family, as presented in Ding 2007. Furthermore, kindergarten teachers should be considered as active researchers in children's role play. This supports the co-construction of their teaching knowledge in relation to children's initiation/subjectivity in role play (Liu, et al. 2003).\n\nPreschool education is starting in Turkey at the age of 5 while primary level education is starting at the age of 6.\n\nIn Japan, development of social skills and a sense of group belonging are major goals. Classes tend to have up to 40 students, to decrease the role of the teacher and increase peer interactions. Participation in group activities is highly valued, leading some schools to, for example, count a child who is standing still near a group exercise session as participating. Children are taught to work harmoniously in large and small groups, and to develop cooperativeness, kindness and social consciousness. The most important goal is to provide a rich social environment that increasingly isolated nuclear families do not provide; unstructured play time is valued.\n\nChildren are allowed to resolve disputes with each other, including physical fighting. Most behavioral problems are attributed to the child's inappropriately expressed emotional dependency. Remedies involve accepting the child, rather than treatment with drugs or punishment. Japanese culture attributes success to effort rather than inborn talent, leading teachers to ignore innate differences between children by encouraging and praising perseverance. They work to ensure that all students meet the standard rather that each reaches his or her own potential. Although preschools exhibit great variety, most target age-appropriate personal development, such as learning empathy, rather than academic programs. Academic programs tend to be more common among Westernized and Christian preschools.\n\nNorth Korean kindergarten education includes themes common to North Korean propaganda. Subjects include the life of Kim Il-sung, the Japanese occupation of Korea, and the Korean War. Children are taught to enjoy military games and to hate the \"miguk nom\", or \"American bastards\".\n\nIn the United States, nursery school is provided in a variety of settings. In general, pre-school is meant to promote development in children through planned programs. Pre-school is defined as: \"center-based programs for four-year olds that are fully or partially funded by state education agencies and that are operated in schools or under the direction of state and local education agencies\". Pre-schools, both private and school sponsored, are available for children from ages three to five. Many of these programs follow similar curriculum as pre-kindergarten.\n\nIn the United States, preschool education emphasizes individuality. Children are frequently permitted to choose from a variety of activities, using a learning center approach. During these times, some children draw or paint, some play house, some play with puzzles while some listen to the teacher read a story aloud. Activities vary in each session. Each child is assumed to have particular strengths and weaknesses to be encouraged or ameliorated by the teachers. A typical belief is that \"children's play is their work\" and that allowing them to select the type of play, the child will meet his or her developmental needs. Preschools also adopt American ideas about justice, such as the rule of law and the idea that everyone is innocent until proven guilty. Teachers actively intervene in disputes and encourage children to resolve them verbally (\"use your words\") rather than physically. Children may be punished with a time out or required to apologize or make reparations for misbehavior. Teachers assist children to explain what happened, before any decision to punish is made. Self-expressive language skills are emphasized through informal interactions with teachers and through structured group activities such as show and tell exercises to enable the child to describe an experience to an adult. Resources vary depending on the wealth of the students, but generally are better equipped than other cultures. Most programs are not subsidized by government, making preschools relatively expensive even though the staff is typically poorly compensated. Student-teacher ratios are lower than in other cultures, ideally about 15 students per group. Parents and teachers see teachers as extensions of or partial substitutes for parents and consequently emphasize personal relationships and consistent expectations at home and at school.\n\nIn the United States, students who may benefit from special education receive services in preschools. Since the enactment of the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA) Public Law 101-476 in 1975 and its amendments, PL 102-119 and PL 105-17 in 1997, the educational system has moved away from self-contained special education classrooms to inclusion, leading special education teachers to practice in a wider variety of settings. As with other stages in the life of a child with special needs, the Individualized Education Plan (IEP) or an Individual Family Service Plan (IFSP) is an important way for teachers, administrators and parents to set guidelines for a partnership to help the child succeed in preschool.\n\nFormally starting in 1916, cooperative preschools are common throughout much of America and focus on providing a preschool environment for children and parents that meet cooperative ideas.\n\n\nThe goal of Head Start and of Early Head Start is to increase the school readiness of young children in low-income families. These programs serve children from birth to age five, pregnant women, and their families. Head Start was started by the Federal Government in 1964 to help meet the needs of disadvantaged pre-school children.\n\nThe office of Economic Opportunity launched Project Head Start as an eight-week summer program in 1965. It was then transferred to the Office of Child Development in the US Department of Health, Education, and Welfare in 1969. Today it is a program within the Administration on Children, Youth and Families in the Department of Health and Human Services. Programs are administered locally by school systems and non-profit organizations.\n\n\nHowever, a rigorous preschool can be developmentally detrimental to children and cause social, emotional, and educational problems later in life. Although an essential based preschool is not focused on academics and kindergarten routines, children learn a lot more valuable lessons that they will use for the rest of their life. Research has shown that of the two an essential based preschool is the better option for children, because of their specific ways of learning.\n\nIn the UK, pre-school education in nursery classes or schools has some local government funding for children aged between two and four. Pre-school education can be provided by childcare centres, playgroups, nursery schools and nursery classes within primary schools. Private voluntary or independent (PVI sector) nursery education is also available throughout the UK and varies between structured pre-school education and a service offering child-minding facilities.\n\nNursery in England is also called FS1 which is the first year of foundation before they go into primary or infants.\n\nThe curriculum goals of a nursery school are more specific than for childcare but less strenuous than for primary school. For example, the Scottish Early Years Framework and the Curriculum for Excellence define expected outcomes even at this age. In some areas, the provision of nursery school services is on a user pays or limited basis while other governments fund nursery school services.\n\nA voucher system for nursery provision was introduced in England and Wales under the Major government, providing for 15 hours per week free childcare or education for three and four-year-olds, much of it provided through reception classes in primary schools. This was replaced by the Blair government with direct funding by local education authorities. Hence every child in England at the first school term after their third birthday is now entitled to 15 hours per week free childcare funding. Pre-schools in England follow the Early Learning Goals, set by the Early Years Foundation Stage, for education produced by the Department for Children, Schools and Families which carries on into their first year of school at the age of four. This year of school is usually called Reception. The Early Learning Goals cover the main areas of education without being subject driven. These areas include\n\nUntil the mid-1980s, nursery schools only admitted pupils in the final year (three terms) leading up to their admission to primary school, but pupils now attend nursery school for four or five terms. It is also common practise for many children to attend nursery much earlier than this. Many nurseries have the facilities to take on babies, using the 'Early Years Foundation Stage', framework as a guide to give each child the best possible start to becoming a competent learner and skilful communicator.\n\nProvision in Wales followed England until devolution and subsequently diverged. Now early years education in Wales is provided half-time for children aged 3–4 (Nursery) and full-time for those between the ages of 4 and 5 (Reception). Since 2005 it has been a statutory duty for all Local Education Authorities to secure sufficient nursery education in their area for children from the term following their third birthday.\n\nCurrently, the Early Years curriculum in Wales, produced by the Welsh Assembly Government Department for Children, Education, Lifelong Learning and Skills,is set out in the booklet \"Desirable Outcomes for Children's Learning Before Compulsory School Age\". However, a new 'Foundation Phase' covering 3-7 year olds is being rolled out across Wales from 2008, with a focus on 'learning through play', which covers seven areas of learning:\n\nIn Northern Ireland funded Nursery School places can be applied for from ages 3 and up.\nPreschool education is delivered also by PreSchools, also referred to as Playschools or Playgroups. A Nursery School is allowed to enrol up to 26 children into a class, with the curriculum being delivered by a qualified teacher and a Nursery Assistant. A preschool, which delivers the same curriculum, is also permitted to admit a maximum of 26 children to any single session. However, the regulations for personnel differ. The Preschool must have a Supervisor with an NVQ 3 qualification in Child Care (or Equivalent). There must be one qualified and vetted adult for every 8 children. Funding is applied for through PEAGs (Preschool Education Advisory Group). Both nursery and preschool settings are inspected by the Education and Training Inspectorate. Preschools are also subject to inspection by local Social Services.\n\nIn Scotland a voucher system for part-time pre-school provision was introduced in parallel with England and Wales under the Major government, but with a strong emphasis on age-appropriate education rather than simply childcare, and avoiding the use of reception classes in primary schools. Now children are entitled to a place in a nursery class when they reach their third birthday. This gives parents the option of two years of funded pre-school education before beginning primary one, the first year of compulsory education. Nursery children who are three years old are referred to as ante-pre-school whilst children who are four years old are termed pre-school. Pre-school education in Scotland is planned around the Early Level of the Curriculum for Excellence which identifies Outcomes & Experiences around the following eight curricular areas:\n\n\nResponsibility for the review of care standards in Scottish nurseries rests with the Care Commission.\n\nStarting in the year of 2010, Ireland passed a law stating that all children of the age 3 years and 2 months and less than 4 years and 7 months are qualified to attend a preschool free of charge. Before this law was passed there was a large number of children who did not attend an Early Childhood Education Program. The programs that were offered operated voluntary and required the parents to pay a steep fee per child. This left many families with no option but to keep the kids at home. The government soon realized that a large number of children were having trouble in their first years of primary school and parents were having to stay home becoming jobless. Once the government issued the free preschool scheme, Ireland's preschool enrollment rate increased to about 93%.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34884293", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34884293", "title": "Scottish Childminding Association", "text": "Scottish Childminding Association\n\nThe Scottish Childminding Association (SCMA) is a charity and membership organisation based in Stirling, Scotland. It provides support, training and information to childminders in Scotland. SCMA's Convenor is Barbara Anne Dennistoun and its Chief Executive is Maggie Simpson.\n\nBy law, childminding services in Scotland must be registered with the Care Inspectorate, the independent regulator of social care and social work services across Scotland. The Care Inspectorate regulates childminding services according to the Public Services Reform (Scotland) Act 2010 and assesses their quality to make sure they meet the National Care Standards which are published by the Scottish Government.\n\nSCMA’s Community Childminding Service provides short-term childcare for families in need. Community Childminding Services currently operate in Aberdeen, Dumfries and Galloway, Fife, Glasgow, West Lothian and the Scottish Borders. \n\nThe Association publishes a quarterly magazine, \"Childminding\" magazine, and operates a helpline. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "24244275", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24244275", "title": "Secret Garden (outdoor nursery)", "text": "Secret Garden (outdoor nursery)\n\nThe Secret Garden is an outdoor nursery school in Letham, Fife, Scotland, for children aged 3–5 years. It is a forest kindergarten in which children walk to a woodland every day, in almost any weather. They use the natural resources they find there rather than modern toys (although with some additional equipment) to learn according to the government educational framework under the heading \"Nature as Teacher\".\n\nThe Secret Garden was started in 2008 by Cathy Bache, a drama and primary teacher and parent of three. Before opening this, she provided childcare to a smaller number of children, and developed her ideas during this time.\n\nForest kindergartens were started in the 1950s and became popular in Germany in the 1990s.\n\nCathy Bache writes of being a drama teacher, \"I believe that this formative training in developing, intuiting and supporting the child’s mind to open in a creative and expressive way to the full realms of the imagination has led me to where I am now: in the woods with pre-school children, supporting the creation of their own magic. We have no toys, limited practical resources of useful tools but plenty of space and opportunity to go where the imagination may take us.\n\n\"Within the woodland there is space and freedom, a wildness and variety of landscapes to explore and play, offering the children: mystery, magic and adventure, places to hide in, dens to create, physical and dexterous skills to develop. It is recognised that the senses of a child are stimulated within the natural environment; their desire to look, listen, touch, taste and smell heightened, leading them to develop curiosity, discovery, a graceful learning of what is happening for the individual, the group, the woodland and its inhabitants.\n\nThe Secret Garden is funded by government grants and private donors, but does not operate for profit. Children are entitled to use government funding credits in the nursery, and parents can supplement this with tax free childcare vouchers or ordinary payments.\n\nIt has received over £7000 from the National Lottery.\n\nIt is open 49 weeks a year, for children aged 3–5. Priority of places is given to children from within the catchment area of Letham Primary School and existing clients. Parents can choose to spend their child's standard government funded nursery hours there, or pay for additional time. Tax free vouchers from an employer may be used.\n\nNewspapers and magazines have written articles on the Secret Garden, including the weekly news magazine \"Maclean's\" in Canada, and \"The Guardian\" in Britain.\n\nIt has been awarded Play Scotland Achievement Award for 'Best Practice in Action'.\n\nOn 6 September 2008, staff and ex-students of the Secret Garden attended the Nancy Ovens Awards for Play ceremony at 'House for an Art Lover' in Bellahouston Park, Glasgow. The award for 'Outstanding Contribution to Play' was presented to Cathy Bache and The Secret Garden by Adam Ingram MSP, Minister for Children and Early Years.\n\nThe Scottish Government Early Years Framework and other government agencies highlight the Secret Garden as an example of good practice, recommending it to other schools.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39439535", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39439535", "title": "SpaceTEC National Resource Center for Aerospace Technical Education", "text": "SpaceTEC National Resource Center for Aerospace Technical Education\n\nSpaceTEC® is one of the Advanced Technological Education (ATE) Centers funded by the National Science Foundation (NSF) for developing partnerships between academic institutions and industry partners to promote improvement in the education of science and engineering technicians at the undergraduate and secondary school levels. With an emphasis on two-year colleges, the ATE program focuses on the education of technicians for the high-technology fields that drive the world’s economies.\nLocated in Cape Canaveral, Florida, SpaceTEC® supports the education and credentialing of aerospace technicians in six core areas and three advanced disciplines: (1) space vehicle processing activities (2) aerospace manufacturing; and (3) composite materials. A national consortium of community and technical colleges, universities, business and industry organizations, and government agencies promotes careers and educates candidates for technical employment.\n\nThe organization has been accredited by the International Certification Accreditation Council to ISO 17024 standards and offers performance-based examinations that result in industry-driven nationally recognized credentials that reflect the competencies employers demand. Successful candidates can qualify for college credits via transcripts provided by the American Council on Education. The SpaceTEC® national credentialing program has earned a formal Safety Approval by the U.S. Federal Aviation Administration’s Office of Commercial Space Transportation.\n\nSpaceTEC® was established in 2002 as an NSF National Center of Excellence funded in part by a three-year NSF Advanced Technological Education Program grant and renewed in 2005 for an additional four years. SpaceTEC® was awarded a four-year follow-on grant in 2009 as an NSF National Resource Center, and in April, 2013, it received a four-year renewal of its NSF grant. The Center is now expanding operations to Science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM fields) technicians working in technical fields beyond aerospace through its ‘’’CertTEC®’’’ commercial industry credentials.\n\nThe original consortium of industry, academia, and government representatives was known as the Community Colleges for Innovative Technology Transfer, a not-for-profit Florida corporation founded in 1994 to provide technician education for geographic information systems. Community Colleges for Innovative Technology Transfer received one of the first National Science Foundation grants for two-year community and technical colleges. The founding partners were all located near NASA or Department of Defense locations, providing a consortium strongly linked to post-secondary education programs for the nation’s technical workforce in aerospace and defense. Its credentials are widely recognized in academic circles as well as within the U. S. aerospace industry.\n\nCommunity Colleges for Innovative Technology Transfer, was restructured in 2009 and renamed SpaceTEC Partners, Inc. (SPI). to reflect a growing expansion of activities to technical education programs beyond aerospace. The mission of SPI is to create and implement an industry-driven, government-endorsed, technical education process that be shared with other educational venues. SpaceTEC® programs to educate and credential aerospace technicians have been adopted by educational institutions, NASA and Department of Defense contractors and for U. S. active duty personnel and veterans.\n\nMost recently, SpaceTEC® has obtained the NASA human spaceflight database of educational and credentialing activities for its NSF National Resource Center and all of its partners and continues to support strong linkages between its industry and education partners.\n\n"}
{"id": "861713", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=861713", "title": "Sun Language Theory", "text": "Sun Language Theory\n\nThe Sun Language Theory () was a Turkish nationalist pseudoscientific linguistic hypothesis developed in Turkey in the 1930s that proposed that all human languages are descendants of one proto-Turkic primal language. The theory proposed that because this primal language had close phonemic resemblances to Turkish, all other languages can essentially be traced back to Turkic roots. According to the theory, the Central Asian worshippers, who wanted to salute the omnipotence of the sun and its life-giving qualities, had done so by transforming their meaningless blabbering into a coherent set of ritual utterings, and language was born, hence the name.\n\nInfluences on the theory included:\n\n\n\nThe founder and first president of the Republic of Turkey, Mustafa Kemal Atatürk, not only gave the theory official backing and material support but also was himself a very important contributor to its development, \"though clearly he did not do all the donkey work\".\n\nAs described in a 1936 \"New York Times\" article on the curriculum of the newly opened School of Language, History and Geography of Ankara University, the theoryclaims that the Sumerians, being Turks, originating in Central Asia, all languages also consequently originated there and first used by the Turks. The first language, in fact, came into being in this way: Prehistoric man, i.e., Turks in the most primitive stage, was so struck by the effects of the sun on life that he made of it a deity whence sprang all good and evil. Thence came to him light, darkness, warmth and fire, with it were associated all ideas of time: height, distance, movement, size, and give expression to his feelings. The sun was thus the first thing to which a name was given. It was \"ag\" (pronounced agh), and from this syllable all words in use today are derived. This, briefly, is the theory about the \"sun language,\" and with the new conception of Turkish history it will be taught in the new Angora school.In short, based upon a heliocentric view of the origin of civilization and human languages, the theory claimed that the Turkish language was the language which all civilized languages derived from.\n\nSome of the words provided with false Turkish etymologies through the practice of \"goropism\" were \"God\", attributed to the Turkish \"kut\" (blessing); \"Bulletin\" from \"belleten\" (to learn by heart); \"Electric\" from Uyghur \"yaltrık\" (shine). According to linguist Ghil'ad Zuckermann, \"it is possible that the Sun Language Theory was adopted by Atatürk in order to legitimize the Arabic and Persian words which the Turkish language authorities did not manage to uproot. This move compensated for the failure to provide a neologism for every foreignism/loanword.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49676384", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49676384", "title": "Types of assessment", "text": "Types of assessment\n\nFormative assessments are informal and formal tests given by teachers during the learning process. These specific assessment modifies the activities done in the classroom, so that there is more student achievement. It identifies strengths and weakness and target areas that needs work.\n\nSummative assessments evaluate students learning at the end of an instructional unit such as a chapter or specified topic. Final papers, midterms and final exams allow the teachers to determine if you comprehended the information given correctly.\n\nNorm-referenced tests compare a student's performance against a national or other \"norm\" group.\n\nPerformance-based assessments requires students to solve real world problems or produce something with real world application. These specific assessment allows the educator to distinguish how well the students think critical and analytical as well as .Restricted response is known to be more narrowly defined than extended response task. Examples would be multiple choice question and answers as opposed to extended response which normally is connected to writing a report.\n\nAuthentic assessment is the measurement of accomplishments that are worth while compared to multiple choice standardized tests.\n\nSelective response assessment is also referred to as objective assessments including multiple choice, matching, and true and false questions. It is very effective and efficient methods for measuring students knowledge. It is a very common form of assessing the students in the classroom.\n\nSupply response students must supply an answer to a question prompt.\n\nCriterion-referenced tests are designed to measure student performance against a fixed set of predetermined criteria or learning standards.\n\n"}
{"id": "15517160", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15517160", "title": "Universidad Nacional Autónoma de Honduras", "text": "Universidad Nacional Autónoma de Honduras\n\nThe National Autonomous University of Honduras (Universidad Nacional Autónoma de Honduras) is the national public university of Honduras. It was founded in 1847 and has many campuses throughout the country. It is the biggest and main university in Honduras.\n\nOn October 15, 1957 the autonomy of UNAH was passed by decree and since then UNAH has received 6% of the government's educational budget.\n\nThe main campus is located in the country's capital of Tegucigalpa and is home to the university's Medical School hospital and campus. We can also find the \"Observatorio Astronómico Centroamericano de Suyapa de la Universidad Nacional Autónoma de Honduras (OACS/UNAH)\", (Suyapa Central American Astronomical Observatory), which uses a 42 cm Meade telescope. \n\nUNAH University City is also home of the multi-sport arena the \"Palacio Universitario de la Universidad Nacional Autónoma de Honduras\" () one of the most modern sports multi-use buildings in Latin America, with a capacity of 12,000 people.\n\nApart from the main campus, there are eight Distance Education Centers, four Telecenters and eight Regional Centers. Among this Regional Center we can find the \"UNAH-VS\" (UNAH Valle de Sula) located at San Pedro Sula, the \"Centro Universitario Regional del Litoral Atlantico\" (CURLA) located at La Ceiba, and the \"Centro Universitario Regional del Centro\" (CURC) located at Comayagua Campus. It is currently Honduras' largest university in terms of student enrollment and one of the largest university systems in Central America.\n\nUNAH's budget is 6% of Honduras budget, in 2016 it is 5,000,000,000 L (250 millions US $).\n\nUniversidad Nacional Autónoma de Honduras hold position 171 on best Latin America universities by Quacquarelli Symonds, and 701+ position on QS World University Rankings.\n\nUNAH Library system was founded in the late 1960s; the first principal was English librarian Mary Hallam (from 1968 to 1972). This library has more than 16,000 volumes. It has a website and some e-books.\n\nEvery campus of UNAH has its own library.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56934748", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56934748", "title": "University of Swahili", "text": "University of Swahili\n\nUniversity of Swahili is an Indo-American University in Panama. It comprises more than 70 departments and its main campus is in India.\n\nUniversity of Swahili was founded in Panama in 2014. The institute was a registered and accredited training institution with the Public Registry of Government of Panama, accredited by the BSS National Development Agency, promoted by Government of India to provide accredited courses to local and overseas students up to Doctoral Level. The University of Swahili Foundation was the only research university that was legally registered in Panama by the Public Registry of Government of Panama for the higher education.\n\nThe university office was established in the Azuero Business Center to offer higher education courses. It is listed in the Department of Economic and Social Affairs, United Nations. It focuses on the priority areas of science, arts, fashion, technology and engineering, and communications technology, computer programming, automation and control and other major disciplines. The co-operation of the Panamanian Government, private sector and society allows the University of Swahili to maintain a state of the art academic offer.\n\nUniversity of Swahili offers courses for higher education in Ph.D. and D.Litt for the following faculties.\n\nUniversity of Swahili offers admissions to a range of research degree programs ranging from Ph.D. to D.Litt.\n\nThe University is accredited by BSS Promoted by National Development Agency Government of India. Chartered Campus in India as this an Indo-American University.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2068983", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2068983", "title": "Zero Day (film)", "text": "Zero Day (film)\n\nZero Day is a 2003 American film directed by Ben Coccio about a school shooting. It was inspired by the 1999 Columbine High School massacre.\n\nAndre Kriegman (based on Eric Harris) and Calvin Gabriel (based on Dylan Klebold) announce their intention to attack their high school, calling their plan \"Zero Day\". They keep a video diary on the camera, carefully hiding it from their friends and families. The majority of the film is portrayed through their video filming, and shows them planning, preparing, and explaining some of their motives.\n\nOther scenes show the two attending Andre's birthday party, egging the house of someone they dislike, and Cal going to the prom while Andre works at a pizza place. In one video entry, Cal notes the origin of the name \"Zero Day\": Cal and Andre originally planned to attack on the first day on which the temperature dropped to zero degrees after they had finished their preparations. This plan soon proved impractical, and they set May 1, 2001 as the new date. Wanting their attack to have a memorable name, they agreed to keep the original title.\n\nThe second to last scene of the movie shows the boys arriving at school on May 1 and preparing their plan and weapons in Andre's car. Andre says that he could never have carried out Zero Day without Cal's help, a sentiment Cal echoes. They run into the school, armed with three pistols, an M1 carbine, and a 12-gauge pump-action shotgun, all stolen from Andre's father and cousin. The shooting is shown through the viewpoint of security cameras very similar to Columbine High School massacre's view. The dialogue is heard via the cellphone of a student who is shot and killed. Shooting at anyone they see, Andre and Cal eventually see law enforcement arriving in force after sixteen minutes of shooting. After arguing over whether to engage the police in gunfire, the pair decide to count to three and shoot themselves.\n\nThe next scene is set on May 10, nine days after the shooting. A group of youths film themselves going to a park where memorial crosses are standing. They say that Andre and Cal killed twelve students and themselves. Finding crosses for the pair, they set them on fire and run back to their cars. The last scene shows the two crosses burning.\n\nIn order of appearance:\n\nBen Coccio recalls that he was in a Brooklyn pizzeria on the day of the 1999 Columbine High School massacre, and saw coverage of the event on the eatery's television, commenting, \"I remember thinking that I was surprised that it hadn't happened sooner.\" Coccio was also struck by the extent to which Eric Harris and Dylan Klebold planned that shooting, compared to the impromptu crimes of passion that typified other school shootings. Coccio became eager to address the story in a way that was not exploitative, and drew upon his own views of high school as a place of tension where \"anything could happen at any time\". Coccio's theory of student school shooters is not that they are the most bullied, as such students tend to develop feelings of inferiority and are likely to harm themselves. Coccio feels that shooters tend to be students with feelings of \"superiority\", and that \"when other people don’t confirm that, it really gets under their skin.\"\n\nNone of the numerous Connecticut high schools where he sought to film the movie would allow Coccio access, and he ended up using the interior of a building at State University of New York at Purchase in Purchase, New York. The \"appropriately fortress-like\" exterior of the High School was New Milford High School in New Milford, Connecticut, where Coccio lived at the time. \n\nWhen casting, Coccio inquired at high schools throughout Connecticut looking for teenagers interested in acting who might not have much or any professional experience. Coccio had three days of open auditions. Andre Keuck responded to an ad Coccio placed in Backstage Magazine and brought his classmate and fellow theater enthusiast Cal Robertson along to the audition. Both boys had acted in Shakespeare productions at the Stratford Avon theater in Stratford, Connecticut. They were encouraged to improvise throughout the film's production.\n\n\"Zero Day\" has received mostly positive reviews from critics, currently holding a 68% approval rating on Rotten Tomatoes, as well as a 74% audience approval rating. Despite the positive reception from critics and audiences, \"Zero Day\" was a box office bomb, gaining only $8,466 against a $20,000 budget.\n\n\n"}
