{"id": "28099572", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28099572", "title": "Alice: Madness Returns", "text": "Alice: Madness Returns\n\nAlice: Madness Returns is a psychological horror action-adventure platform video game developed by Chinese studio Spicy Horse and released by Electronic Arts for Microsoft Windows, PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360. It is the sequel to \"American McGee's Alice\" (2000). The game was released worldwide beginning in North America on June 14, 2011, followed by Europe on June 16, 2011, and in the United Kingdom on June 17, 2011. The game is also backwards compatible with the Xbox One.\n\n\"Alice: Madness Returns\" follows Alice Liddell, a girl suffering from trauma caused by the death of her family in a fire. Alice was discharged from a psychiatric clinic and now lives in an orphanage for mentally traumatized orphans under the care of Dr. Angus Bumby. To get rid of the trauma and learn the truth about her past, she once again falls into Wonderland, where a new evil force has corrupted it.\n\n\"Alice: Madness Returns\" is played from a third-person perspective. The player controls Alice for the entirety of the game for running, jumping, dodging and attacking.\n\nIn combat, Alice gains a small number of weapons that can be utilized in several ways. Her primary weapon is the Vorpal Blade, a decorated kitchen knife. The remainder of her arsenal is somewhat akin to the benign and mundane items that take on a deadly quality in Alice's tainted Wonderland in the first game. The Pepper Grinder becomes a crank operated gatling gun, used to attack at a distance and pepper pig snouts. The Hobby Horse is used as a sledgehammer to inflict heavy damage and break barriers and defenses. The Teapot Cannon fires tea sieves that explode to cause heavy damage and, like the Hobby Horse, break barriers. By collecting teeth that are dropped by foes or found scattered about the levels, the player can upgrade these items to more powerful versions. Two other weapons cannot be upgraded, primarily because they are more defensive than directly offensive: the Umbrella acts as a shield that can be used to deflect and reflect most incoming projectiles; The Clockwork Bomb is a time-delayed/remote-controlled rabbit alarm clock that does a minimal amount of damage to enemies, but its usefulness is better illustrated as a decoy, as well as a weight to keep switches temporarily depressed.\n\nAlice's health is tracked by a number of rose petals. Should Alice's health fall to zero during game play, the player is forced to start at the most recent checkpoint. Falling off platforms into bottomless pits or dangerous liquids do not damage Alice but restart her at a nearby platform. The game also introduces \"Hysteria\", which can be used when Alice's health is very low, and it can only be used for a limited amount of time.\n\nWhile working each level, the player can discover various secrets. A primary mechanic is to use Alice's shrinking potion to reduce in size, allowing her to walk through small spaces like keyholes, but also reveals invisible platforms and surfaces; after returning to normal size, these platforms slowly fade back to invisibility, requiring the player to remember their location. Pig's snouts, which make noise when the player is close, can be struck with the pepper grinder to reveal new paths. Radula rooms provide a short challenge to the player, which on completion grants a jar of paint; obtaining four jars earns the player another rose for Alice's health. Memories can be picked up that provide voiceovers revealing parts of the game's backstory.\n\nUpon completion, the player can start a new game plus, letting them play through the game again but keeping all their weapons and upgrades from the previous attempt. From the menu, the player can also review the memories that they have found within the game.\n\nWithin events of the first game, Alice Liddell, believing herself responsible for a fire that consumed her home and her family, escapes into a twisted version of Wonderland. While held at Rutledge Asylum for treatment, Alice was able to conquer her doubts, and eventually was released from the ward. \"Madness Returns\" takes place in 1875, a year after Alice's release. Alice, now 19 years old, resides at an orphanage in Victorian London, under the care of Dr. Angus Bumby, a psychiatrist who uses hypnosis to help his child patients forget their memories. Though she believes that she is fine, Alice still suffers from hallucinations of Wonderland.\n\nDuring an errand, Alice is struck by a hallucination and believes herself to be in Wonderland again. Though initially idyllic, the peaceful land quickly becomes corrupted by the Infernal Train that rampages through it, leaving behind the Ruin, a force that attempts to stop Alice. Alice meets with the Cheshire Cat who affirms that it is some outside force, not Alice, that has caused this corruption, and urges her to seek out former friends and foes to discover the source of the Train. Throughout the rest of the game, Alice briefly returns to reality between episodes occurring within Wonderland. In the real world, Alice learns from the family lawyer that her sister, Elizabeth (nicknamed \"Lizzie\"), was first to die in the fire, despite being the farthest from its source, and had been locked in her room.\n\nWithin the corrupted Wonderland, Alice attempts to learn more from Wonderland's various citizens, including the Duchess, the Mad Hatter, the Mock Turtle, the Walrus and the Carpenter, and the Caterpillar. She is ultimately told that the Queen of Hearts still lives despite her defeat at Alice's hands before, though in diminished capacity. At the Queen's castle, Alice discovers the Queen's true form, which resembles her younger self. The Queen reveals that an entity called the Dollmaker has taken over the Infernal Train and is corrupting Wonderland.\n\nReturning to London, Alice starts to recall her memories of the night of the fire, and realizes that Dr. Bumby was there. He is responsible for the death of her sister and her whole family. She comes to the conclusion that Dr. Bumby is attempting to erase the memories of the fire from her mind and, as he has done with other children, trying to leave her as a \"blank toy\" to be taken by abusive masters and child molesters for a price. Furious, Alice confronts both Dr. Bumby in the real world at the Moorgate station and Dr. Bumby's Wonderland counterpart, the Dollmaker, in her fantasy on the Infernal Train. Dr. Bumby admits to his crimes, and even attests to setting Alice's home on fire after Lizzie refused his advances, removing any witnesses to his having raped her that night. He points out that by wiping out her Wonderland, he will make her forget the events of that night, while he will continue as a member of high society. Alice defeats the Dollmaker in Wonderland, giving her the strength in the real world and in her mind to push Dr. Bumby into the path of an oncoming train, killing him.\n\nAs Alice leaves the station, she finds herself in a hybrid vision of London mixed with Wonderland, Londerland. Alice wanders into the unknown terrain as the Cheshire Cat monologues that Alice has found the truth that was \"worth the pain fighting for\", and Wonderland, though damaged, is safe for the time being.\n\nRumors of a sequel to \"Alice\" first developed shortly after the original game was released to critical and commercial success, though at that time, the development team behind the original were working on the ultimately-cancelled spin-off, \"American McGee's Oz\". As the development of the movie adaptation of \"American McGee's Alice\" took longer and the original game became more of a cult classic, in 2007 interest at Electronic Arts rose in a remake of the game and work was started on a sequel. However, when the movie adaptation fell through, plans for a sequel were shelved, and remained so for nearly a decade.\n\nAt the February 2009 D.I.C.E. Summit, EA announced a sequel, which at the time had the working title \"The Return of American McGee's Alice\". Two pieces of concept art accompanied the announcement, along with the information that the original game's writer and executive producer would also return for the sequel. In November of that year, a fan-made trailer (with the title \"The Return of Alice\") was mistaken by gaming news outlets as an official teaser for the game, in which Alice is in therapy after a relapse nine months following the events of the first game, and appears to hallucinate an image of the Cheshire Cat in place of her doctor.\n\nAt EA's Studio Showcase on July 20, 2010, more details about the game were shown, including its current title, \"Alice: Madness Returns\". In addition to further pieces of concept art and actual, in-game screenshots, the first official teaser was released. Despite (or perhaps because of) the fan video eight months prior, it also portrays Alice in therapy: after being hypnotized by her doctor in a bizarre office filled with dismembered arms hanging from the ceiling, as she opens her mouth to speak, large amounts of blood and teeth pour out. As the game title appears, a whispering voice is heard saying, \"What have you done?\"\n\nDuring the 2010 Tokyo Game Show, new assets, including a second trailer, were released. Alice is seen strolling through a London street, and eventually approaches an area littered with toys and a toy store window, which contains a set depicting the Mad Hatter, the Dormouse and the March Hare taking tea. Suddenly, she sees an image of her deceased parents in the window's reflection, but turns around to find no one there. The window begins to burn and the silhouette of the Queen of Hearts appears before it explodes in flames, and the Queen's tentacles drag Alice into the inferno. Like the previous trailer, it ends with a voice saying \"What have you done?\"\n\nOn February 14, 2011, MSNBC's \"In-Game\" website unveiled the third teaser trailer as well as a brief interview with American McGee regarding the game. The third teaser depicts Alice wandering around an initially beautiful Wonderland, eventually coming across the Caterpillar, who transforms into a giant, menacing butterfly as the landscape is attacked by fiery phoenixes and turned into a nightmarish world reminiscent of the original game's landscapes. Alice finds herself sitting at a tea party with the Mad Hatter, March Hare and Dormouse. The Hatter sends a robotic teapot to kill Alice, who in turns stabs it to death in the eye with the Vorpal Blade. Then, a voice asks \"What have you done?\"\n\nA fourth trailer, showing gameplay footage for the first time was released on March 4, 2011. The trailer featured possible gameplay in Victorian London, new costumes and weapons for Alice, the reprised roles of some of the voice cast from the first game, and the appearance of old and new characters including a resurrected Jabberwock and the Dodo; after the trailer the Cheshire Cat says \"Now it's time to put your blade to work\". The player can also hear Alice's Vorpal Blade being equipped as the title card comes up.\n\nGameSpot released footage of a gameplay demo whilst interviewing an EA executive producer Joel Wade in April. In the video, numerous details about the game were revealed. Wade explained storywise after Alice left Rutledge Asylum, she is an orphan and now lives in an orphanage, and the home's director is helping her. Gameplay showed Alice can unlock and use several weapons, which can be upgraded by collecting teeth throughout the game. Weapons including the Vorpal Blade, the Pepper Grinder which acts as a projectile machine gun-like weapon, the Clockwork Bomb, the club-like Hobby Horse, and the explosive Teapot Cannon. Alice also collects \"memories\" that are part of her quest to recall forgotten memories from her past. Enemies are described as having \"puzzle elements\", namely their weak point which the player must figure out to defeat them.\n\nOn May 20, 2011, a prequel to \"Madness Returns\", titled \"Alice: Madness Returns Interactive Story\", was released as an app exclusively for iOS. A port for Android phones has been developed. The app plays as a book that requires you to interact with illustrations and at many times allows you to play mini-games. The story covers the events even before the original game all the way to the events directly before \"Alice: Madness Returns\".\n\nOn June 3, 2011, a final launch trailer was released. This showed some bosses, Alice fighting enemies, the Cheshire Cat giving Alice hints, and more. At the time of release, \"Madness Returns\" had a final development budget of $9 million.\n\nIn 2013, American McGee admitted that he wished he had had more time to polish the game by compressing the action, removing a lot of the \"filler\" content and fixing some of the annoying bugs.\n\nAggregating review websites GameRankings and Metacritic gave the Microsoft Windows version 74% based on 15 reviews and 75/100 based on 29 reviews, the Xbox 360 version 73% based on 49 reviews and 70/100 based on 67 reviews, and the PlayStation 3 version 71% based on 35 reviews and 70/100 based on 52 reviews.\n\nGamesRadar included it in their list of the 100 most overlooked games of its generation. Editor Jason Fanelli felt that it was a worthy sequel yet also felt that players would have to overlook problems to enjoy its qualities.\n\nAmerican McGee has stated that he had envisioned the \"Alice\" series as a trilogy. In May 2011, McGee reported that a story had already been created for a potential third game, but stressed that it would only be produced if the audience desired it.\n\nIn June 2012, McGee reiterated his intention to develop a third game, titled \"Alice in Otherland\". McGee revealed that the game would be released episodically, and stated that it \"would allow Alice to go into the minds of all these characters she encounters, and it opens up the possibility where you could play as Alice and you can enter into a player's mind, change the landscape, and then basically psychologically adjust the character in doing so. Imagine an MMO where the missions aren't locations, but they're people.\" However, he said that the game was unlikely to be produced soon due to a lack of interest from Electronic Arts.\n\nOn March 14, 2013, McGee posted on his Facebook page that he would have the opportunity to discuss a third \"Alice\" game with EA during the Game Developers Conference. He did not specify whether or not this would follow the desired plot of \"Alice in Otherland\", but claimed that the funding for the project would most possibly be done through Kickstarter. On July 15, 2013, McGee announced that a campaign for the production has begun on Kickstarter to help fund the project, titled \"Alice: Otherlands\", a series of animated film shorts. To help promote the campaign, McGee released a video on his personal YouTube and Vimeo accounts, explaining the concept of \"Alice: Otherlands\" and how the funds will affect the production of the film. The video can also be viewed on its Kickstarter website.\n\n\"Alice: Otherlands\" successfully reached its Kickstarter goal on August 4. On August 21, McGee confirmed that the campaign has achieved its \"stretch goal\" to secure Susie Brann's (Alice's voice actress) and Roger L. Jackson's (the Cheshire Cat's voice actor) involvement on the project with an extra $50,000. To award the backers who donated to the project, McGee gave special merchandises, such as autographed posters, digital copies of the DVD and art book to those who donated $500 or more. Additionally, all backers had their names added to the credits of the film. Due to legal constraints, DVDs and Blu-rays were available for backers only, while the short films was distributed digitally for the public for free on various digital formats. An art book titled \"The Art of Alice: Otherlands\" was developed by artist Alex \"AlexCee\" Crowley. Originally, \"Alice: Otherlands\" was set to be released sometime in December 2014, but has been pushed back due to production delays. On October 30, 2015, the digital assets for \"Alice: Otherlands\" was released on various streaming platforms, such as YouTube and Vimeo, and is available for download on the official site.\n\nAccording to McGee, Alice, now 20 years old, will enter the minds of two famous historical figures, Richard Wagner and Jules Verne, and discover the horrors of the human subconscious. Alice will learn of an \"insidious evil lurking in every corner of Victorian London\" with the intent of capturing its inhabitants in a nightmarish \"prison of the mind\". The two film shorts vary in length, have their own unique animation style, and a different soundtrack composed by Chris Vrenna and Walter Sickert and the Army of Broken Toys.\n\nIn several interviews, McGee expressed his desire to make \"Alice: Otherlands\" into a video game as originally planned, but stated that will depend entirely on the overall success of the animated shorts. He also stated that EA have recently started to show more interest in making an \"Alice\" sequel again, but it all depends on the success of \"Alice: Otherlands\" and Spicy Horse games.\n\nOn September 3, 2017, American McGee announced on his blog that he is working on a proposal for the third installment of the \"Alice\" franchise, tentatively titled \"Alice: Asylum\". McGee explains that his proposal will consist of \"artwork, design outline, and financial/business model\" which will be sent to EA once it is completed. He encourages fans to sign up for the mailing list for the project to show their support and lend financial support for the pre-production through PayPal on his blog.\n\n"}
{"id": "25662637", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25662637", "title": "Allied Publishers", "text": "Allied Publishers\n\nAllied Publishers is an Indian-based academic and literary publishing house, established in 1934 by M. Graham Brash, the Company was acquired by the late Mr. R.N.Sachdev, founder Chairman of Allied Publishers in 1947. A wholly Indian management publishing company which operates from Mumbai and New Delhi. Its directors are Sunil Sachdev, Ravi Sachdev in New Delhi, and Arjun Sachdev in Mumbai.\n\nAllied publishes academic (text books and reference books) books for schools, colleges and higher academic institutes. It also promote Indian publications abroad as leading Exporters, through the Allied's Export Division in New Delhi .\n\nPerhaps it is Indian publishing venture and it also imports books on a wide variety of subjects by universities, colleges and other institutions for development of their libraries, and to impart better knowledge is being fulfilled by Allied by the representation of nearly 100 prestigious publishers from US, UK and the continent, Japan and South-East Asia.\n\nIt has so far published Indian writers and poets .It has brought out collections of Keki N. Daruwalla, Arundhathi Subramaniam, Prabhanjan Mishra, Jerry Pinto, Vihang A. Naik, Sheila Gujral among other literary and critical texts.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6721754", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6721754", "title": "Ancient Maya art", "text": "Ancient Maya art\n\nAncient Maya art refers to the material arts of the Maya civilization, an eastern and south-eastern Mesoamerican culture that took shape in the course of the later Preclassic Period (500 BCE to 200 CE). Its greatest artistic flowering occurred during the seven centuries of the (c. 200 to 900 CE). Ancient Maya art then went through an extended Post-Classic phase before the upheavals of the sixteenth century destroyed courtly culture and put an end to the Mayan artistic tradition. Many regional styles existed, not always coinciding with the changing boundaries of Maya polities. Olmecs, Teotihuacan and Toltecs have all influenced Maya art. Traditional art forms have mainly survived in weaving and the design of peasant houses.\n\nFollowing the nineteenth and early-twentieth century publications on Maya art and archaeology by Stephens, Catherwood, Maudslay, Maler and Charnay that for the first time made available reliable drawings and photographs of major Classic Maya monuments, the 1913 publication of Herbert Spinden´s 'A Study of Maya Art' - now over a century ago - laid the foundation for all later developments of Maya art history (including iconography). The book gives an analytical treatment of themes and motifs, particularly the ubiquitous serpent and dragon motifs, and a review of the ´material arts´, such as the composition of temple facades, roof combs and mask panels. Spinden's chronological treatment of Maya art was later (1950) refined by the motif analysis of the architect and specialist in archaeological drawing, Tatiana Proskouriakoff, in her book 'A Study of Classic Maya Sculpture'. Kubler's 1969 inventory of Maya iconography, containing a site-by-site treatment of 'commemorative' images and a topical treatment of ritual and mythical images (such as the 'triadic sign'), concluded a period of gradual increase of knowledge that was soon to be overshadowed by new developments.\n\nStarting in the early 1970s, the historiography of the Mayan kingdoms - first of all Palenque - came to occupy the forefront. Art-historical interpretation joined the historical approach pioneered by Proskouriakoff as well as the mythological approach initiated by M.D. Coe, with a professor of art, Linda Schele, serving as a driving force. Schele's seminal interpretations of Maya art are found throughout her work, especially in \"The Blood of Kings\", written together with art historian M. Miller. Maya art history was also spurred by the enormous increase in sculptural and ceramic imagery, due to extensive archaeological excavations, as well as to organized looting on an unprecedented scale. On from 1973, M.D. Coe published a series of books offering pictures and interpretations of unknown Maya vases, with the Popol Vuh Twin myth for an explanatory model. In 1981, Robicsek and Hales added an inventory and classification of Maya vases painted in codex style, thereby revealing even more of a hitherto barely known spiritual world.\n\nAs to subsequent developments, important issues in Schele's iconographic work have been elaborated by Karl Taube. New approaches to Maya art include studies of ancient Maya ceramic workshops, the representation of bodily experience and the senses in Maya art, and of hieroglyphs considered as iconographic units. Meanwhile, the number of monographs devoted to the monumental art of specific courts is growing. A good impression of recent Mexican and North American art historical scholarship can be gathered from the exhibition catalogue 'Courtly Art of the Ancient Maya' (2004).\n\n \nThe layout of the Maya towns and cities, and more particularly of the ceremonial centers where the royal families and courtiers resided, is characterized by the rhythm of immense horizontal stucco floors of plazas often located at various levels, connected by broad and often steep stairs, and surmounted by temple pyramids. Under successive reigns, the main buildings were enlarged by adding new layers of fill and stucco coating. Irrigation channels, reservoirs, and drains made up the hydraulic infrastructure. Outside the ceremonial center (especially in the southern area sometimes resembling an acropolis) were the structures of lesser nobles, smaller temples, and individual shrines, surrounded by the wards of the commoners. Dam-like causeways (sacbeob) spread from the 'ceremonial centers' to other nuclei of habitation. Fitting in with the concept of a 'theatre state', more attention appears to have been given to aesthetics than to solidity of construction. Careful attention, however, was placed on directional orientation.\n\nAmong the various types of structures should be mentioned:\nAmong the structural ensembles are:\n\nIn the palaces and temple rooms, the 'corbelled vault' was often applied. Though not an effective means to increase interior space, as it required thick stone walls to support the high ceiling, some temples utilized repeated arches, or a corbelled vault, to construct an inner sanctuary (e.g., that of the Temple of the Cross at Palenque).\n\nThe northern Maya area (Campeche and Yucatan) shows characteristics of its own. Its Classic Puuc, Chenes, and Rio Bec architecture is characterized by the geometrical reduction of realistic decoration; the stacking of rain god snouts to build facades; the use of portals shaped like serpent mouths; and, in the Rio Bec area, the use of solid pseudo temple-pyramids. The most important Puuc site is Uxmal. Chichen Itza, dominating Yucatan from the Late Classic to well into the Post-Classic, features Classic buildings in Chenes and Puuc style as well as Post-Classic building types of Mexican derivation, such as the radial four-staircase pyramid, the colonnaded hall, and the circular temple. The latter features were inherited by the succeeding kingdom of Mayapan.\n\n \nThe main Preclassic sculptural style from the Maya area is that of Izapa, a large settlement on the Pacific coast where many stelas and (frog-shaped) altars were found showing motifs also present in Olmec art. The stelas, mostly without inscriptions, often show mythological and narrative subjects, some of which appear to relate to the Twin myth of the Popol Vuh. Nonetheless, it remains uncertain if the inhabitants of Izapa were ethnically Mayan. For the Classic Period of the Mayas, the following major classes of stone sculpture may be distinguished.\n\n\nIt is believed that carvings in wood were once extremely common, but only a few examples have survived. Most 16th-century wood carvings, considered objects of idolatry, were destroyed by the Spanish colonial authorities. The most important Classic examples consist of intricately worked lintels, mostly from the main Tikal pyramid sanctuaries, with one specimen from nearby El Zotz. The Tikal wood reliefs, each consisting of several beams, and dating to the 8th century, show a king on his seat with a protector figure looming large behind, in the form of a Teotihuacan-style 'war serpent' (Temple I lintel 2), a jaguar (Temple I lintel 3), or a human impersonator of the jaguar god of terrestrial fire (Temple IV lintel 2). Other Tikal lintels depict an obese king wearing a jaguar dress and standing in front of his seat (Temple III lintel 2); and most famously, a victorious king, dressed as an astral death god, and standing on a palanquin underneath an arching feathered serpent (Temple IV lintel 3). A rare utility object is a tiny lidded box covered with a long hieroglyphic inscription from Tortuguero. Free sculpture in wood, dating back to the 6th century, is represented by a dignified seated man possibly functioning as a mirror bearer.\n\nAt least since Late Preclassic times, modeled and painted stucco plaster covered the floors and buildings of the town centers and provided the setting for their stone sculptures. Often, large mask panels with the plastered heads of deities in high relief (particularly those of sun, rain, and earth) are found attached to the sloping retaining walls of temple platforms flanking stairs (e.g., Kohunlich). Stucco modeling and relief work can also cover the entire building, as shown by Temple 16 of Copan, in its 6th-century form (known as 'Rosalila'). Dedicated to the first king, Yax K'uk' Mo', this early temple has preserved plastered and painted facades. The stuccoed friezes, walls, piers, and roof combs of the Late Preclassic and Classic periods show varying and sometimes symbolically complicated decorative programs.\nSeveral solutions for dividing up and ordering the stuccoed surfaces of buildings were applied, serialization being one of them. The Early Classic walls of the 'Temple of the Night Sun' in El Zotz consist of a series of subtly varied deity mask panels, whereas the frieze of a Balamku palace, also from the Early Classic, originally had a series of four rulers enthroned above the open ophidian mouths of four different animals (a toad among them) associated with symbolic mountains. Conversely, friezes may be centered on a single ruler again sitting on a symbolic (maize) mountain, such as a frieze from Holmul, with two feathered serpents emanating from below the ruler's seat, and another one from Xultun, on which the ruler carries a large ceremonial bar with emerging jaguar-like figures. An Early-Classic temple frieze from Placeres, Quintana Roo, has the large mask panel of a young lord or deity in the middle, with two lateral 'Grandfather' deities extending their arms.\n\nOften, a frieze is divided into compartments. Late Preclassic friezes of El Mirador, for example, show the intervening spaces of an undulating serpent's body filled out with aquatic birds, and the sections of an aquatic band with swimming figures. Similarly, a Classic palace frieze in Acanceh is divided into panels holding different animal figures reminiscent of wayob, while a wall in Tonina has lozenge-shaped fields suggesting a scaffold and presenting continuous narrative scenes that relate to human sacrifice.\n\nPlastered temple roof combs are similar to some of the friezes above in that they usually show large representations of rulers, who may again be seated on a symbolic mountain, and also, as on Palenque's Temple of the Sun, set within a cosmological framework. Further examples of Classic stucco modeling include the piers of the Palenque Palace, embellished with a series of lords and ladies in ritual dress, and the 'baroque', Late-Classic Chenes-style stucco entrance, beset with naturalistic human figures, on the Acropolis (Str. 1) of Ek' Balam.\n\nUnique in Mesoamerica, Classic Period stucco modeling includes realistic portraiture of a quality equalling that of Roman ancestral portraits, with the lofty stucco heads of Palenque rulers and portraits of dignitaries from Tonina as outstanding examples. Some of these portrait heads were part of life-size stucco figures adorning temple crests. The portrait modeling recalls that of certain Jaina ceramic statuettes.\n\nAlthough, due to the humid climate of Central America, relatively few Mayan paintings have survived to the present day integrally, important remnants have been found in nearly all major court residences. This is especially the case in substructures, hidden under later architectural additions. Mural paintings may show more or less repetitive motifs, such as the subtly varied flower symbols on walls of House E of the Palenque Palace; scenes of daily life, as in one of the buildings surrounding the central square of Calakmul and in a palace of Chilonche; or ritual scenes involving deities, as in the Post-Classic temple murals of Yucatán's and Belize's east coast (Tancah, Tulum, Santa Rita).\n\nThey may also evince a more narrative character, usually with hieroglyphic captions present. The colourful Bonampak murals, for example, dating from 790 AD, and extending over the walls and vaults of three adjacent rooms, show spectacular scenes of nobility, battle and sacrifice, as well as a group of ritual impersonators in the midst of a file of musicians. At San Bartolo, murals dating from 100 BCE relate to the myths of the Maya maize god and the hero twin Hunahpu, and depict a double inthronization; antedating the Classic Period by several centuries, the style is already fully developed, with colours being subtle and muted as compared to those of Bonampak or Calakmul. Outside the Mayan area, in a ward of East-Central Mexican Cacaxtla, murals painted in a predominantly Classic Mayan style, with often stark colors, have been found, such as a savage battle scene extending over 20 meters; two figures of Mayan lords standing on serpents; and an irrigated maize and cacao field visited by the Maya merchant deity.\n\nWall painting also occurs on vault capstones, in tombs (e.g., Río Azul), and in caves (e.g., Naj Tunich), usually executed in black on a whitened surface, at times with the additional use of red paint. Yucatec vault capstones often show a depiction of the enthroned lightning deity (e.g., Ek' Balam).\n\nA bright turquoise blue colour - 'Maya Blue' - has survived through the centuries due to its unique chemical characteristics; this color is present in Bonampak, Cacaxtla, Jaina, El Tajín, and even in some Colonial Convents. The use of Maya Blue survived until the 16th century, when the technique was lost.\n\nThe Maya writing system consists of about 1000 distinct characters or hieroglyphs ('glyphs'), and like many ancient writing systems is a mixture of syllabic signs and logograms. This script was in use from the 3rd century BCE until shortly after the Spanish conquest in the 16th century. As of now (2017), a considerable proportion of the characters has a reading, but their meaning and configuration as a text is not always understood. The books were folded and consisted of bark paper or leather leaves with an adhesive stucco layer on which to write; they were protected by jaguar skin covers or, perhaps, wooden boards. Since every diviner probably needed a book, there must have existed large numbers of them. Today, three codices (the Dresden, Paris, and Madrid codices), all of the Post-Classic period, are still in existence; the authenticity of a fourth one (the Grolier Codex) remains doubtful. They are largely of a divinatory and priestly nature, containing almanacs, astrological tables, and ritual programs; the Paris Codex also includes katun-prophecies. Great attention was paid to a harmonious balance of texts and (partly coloured) illustrations.\n\nBesides the codical glyphs, there existed a cursive script of an often dynamic character, found in wall-paintings and on ceramics, and imitated in stone on panels from Palenque (such as the 'Tablet of the 96 glyphs'). Often, written captions are enclosed in square 'boxes' of various shapes within the representation. Wall paintings may also entirely consist of texts (Ek' Balam, Naj Tunich), or, more rarely, contain astrological computations (Xultun); sometimes, written on a white stuccoed surface, and executed with particular care and elegance, these texts are like enlargements of book pages.\nHieroglyphs are ubiquitous and were written on every available surface, including the human body. The glyphs themselves are highly detailed, and particularly the logograms are deceivingly realistic. As a matter of fact, from an art-historical point of view, they should also be viewed as art motifs, and \"vice versa\". Sculptors at Copan and Quirigua have consequently felt free to convert hieroglyphic elements and calendrical signs into animated, dramatic miniature scenes ('full figure glyphs').\n\nUnlike utility ceramics found in such large numbers among the debris of archaeological sites, most of the decorated pottery (cylinder vessels, lidded dishes, vases, bowls) once was 'social currency' among the Maya nobility, and, preserved as heirlooms, also accompanied the nobles into their graves. The aristocratic tradition of gift-giving feasts and ceremonial visits, and the emulation that inevitably went with these exchanges, goes a long way towards explaining the high level of artistry reached in Classical times.\n\nMade without a potter's wheel, decorated pottery was delicately painted, carved into relief, incised, or - chiefly during the Early Classic period - made with the Teotihuacan fresco technique of applying paint to a wet clay surface. The precious objects were manufactured in numerous workshops distributed over the Mayan kingdoms, some of the most famous being associated with the 'Chama-style', the 'Holmul-style', the so-called 'Ik-style' and, for carved pottery, the 'Chochola-style.'\nVase decoration shows great variation, including palace scenes, courtly ritual, mythology, divinatory glyphs, and even dynastical texts taken from chronicles, and plays a major role in reconstructing Classical Maya life and beliefs. Ceramic scenes and texts painted in black and red on a white underground, the equivalents of pages from the lost folding books, are referred to as being in 'codex style' (e.g., the so-called Princeton Vase). The hieroglyphical and pictural overlap with the three extant books is (at least up to now) relatively small.\n\nSculptural ceramic art includes incense burners and hand or mold-made figurines sometimes used as ocarinas. The profusely decorated, elongated Classic incense burners from the kingdom of Palenque - evolved from Early-Classic models - show the modeled face of a deity (usually the jaguar deity of terrestrial fire) or of a king. The elaborate Post-Classic, mold-made effigy incense burners especially associated with Mayapan represent standing deities (or priestly deity impersonators) often carrying offerings.\n\nFigurines, many of them mold-made, are often of an amazing liveliness and realism. Apart from deities, animal persons, rulers and dwarfs, they show many other characters as well as scenes taken from daily life. Some of these figurines may have been used in rituals. The most impressive examples stem from Jaina Island.\n\nIt is remarkable that the Maya, who had no metal tools, created many objects from a very thick and dense material, jade (jadeite), particularly all sorts of (royal) dress elements, such as belt plaques - or celts - ear spools, pendants, and also masks. Celts (i.e., flat, celt-shaped ornaments) were sometimes engraved with a stela-like representation of the king (e.g., the Early-Classic 'Leyden Plate'). The best-known example of a mask is probably the death mask of the Palenque king Pakal, covered with irregularly-shaped jade plaques and having eyes made from mother-of-pearl and obsidian; another death mask, belonging to a Palenque queen, consists of malachite plaques. Similarly, certain cylindrical vases from Tikal have an outer layer of square jade discs. Many stone carvings had jade inlays.\n\nAmong other sculpted and engraved materials are flint, shell, and bone, often found in caches and burials. The so-called 'eccentric flints' are ceremonial objects of uncertain use, in their most elaborate forms of elongated shape with usually various heads extending on one or both sides, sometimes those of the lightning deity, but more often of an anthropomorphic lightning probably representing the Tonsured Maize God. Shell was worked into disks and other decorative elements showing human, possibly ancestral heads and deities; conch trumpets were similarly decorated. Human and animal bones were decorated with incised symbols and scenes. A collection of small and modified, tubular bones from an 8th-century royal burial under Tikal Temple I contains some of the most subtle engravings known from the Maya, including several scenes with the Tonsured maize god in a canoe.\n\nTextiles from the Classic period, made of cotton, have not survived, but Maya art provides detailed information about their appearance and, to a lesser extent, their social function. They include delicate fabrics used as wrappings, curtains and canopies furnishing palaces, and garments. Among the dyeing techniques may have been ikat. Daily costume depended on social standing. Noblewomen usually wore long dresses, noblemen girdles and breechcloths, leaving legs and upper body more or less bare, unless jackets or mantles were worn. Both men and women could wear turbans. Costumes worn on ceremonial occasions and during the many festivities were highly expressive and exuberant; animal headdresses were common. The most elaborate costume was the formal apparel of the king, as depicted on the royal stelae, with numerous elements of symbolic meaning.\n\nWickerwork, only known from incidental depictions in sculptural and ceramic art, must once have been ubiquitous; the well-known \"pop\" ('mat') motif testifies to its importance.\n\nBody decorations often consisted of painted patterns on face and body, but could also be of a permanent character marking status and age differences. The latter type included artificial deformation of the skull, filing and incrustation of the teeth, and tattooing of the face.\n\nThere are a great many museums across the world with Maya artifacts in their collections. The Foundation for the Advancement of Mesoamerican Studies lists over 250 museums in its Maya Museum database, and the European Association of Mayanists lists just under 50 museums in Europe alone. In Mexico City, the Museo Nacional de Antropología contains an especially large selection of Maya artifacts. A number of regional museums in Mexico hold important collections, including the Museo de las Estelas \"Román Piña Chan\" in Campeche, the Museo Regional de Yucatán \"Palacio Cantón\" in Mérida, and the Museo Regional de Antropología \"Carlos Pellicer Camera\" in Villahermosa, Tabasco. The most important museum collections in Guatemala are those of the Museo Popol Vuh and the Museo Nacional de Arqueología y Etnología, both in Guatemala City. Notable museums with collections of Maya artifacts include the British Museum in London, the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York, the Peabody Museum of Archaeology and Ethnology in Cambridge, Massachusetts, and the University of Pennsylvania Museum of Archaeology and Anthropology. The Museum der Kulturen in Basel, Switzerland, holds a number of wooden lintels from Tikal; the Ethnologisches Museum in Berlin holds a broad selection of Maya artifacts. In Belgium, the Musées royaux d'art et d'histoire in Brussels houses an important collection. The Field Museum of Natural History in Chicago contains a notable selection of Maya ceramics, while the Cleveland Museum of Art in Ohio has one of the most extensive Maya collections in the United States. The Museo de América in Madrid hosts a large selection of artifacts from Palenque; it is also home to the Madrid Codex. Other notable European museums are the Rijksmuseum voor Volkenkunde in Leiden, Netherlands, home to the Leyden Plate, and the Rietberg Museum in Zürich, Switzerland.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3759103", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3759103", "title": "Anno Lucis", "text": "Anno Lucis\n\nAnno Lucis (“in the Year of Light”) is a dating system used in Masonic ceremonial or commemorative proceedings, which is equivalent to the Gregorian year plus 4000. It is similar to \"Anno Mundi\".\n\nFor example, a date Anno Domini (A.D.) becomes Anno Lucis (A.L.) 4000. This calendar era, which would designate 4001 BCE as 'year zero', was adopted in the 18th century as a simplification of the \"Anno Mundi\" era dating system used in the Hebrew calendar and borrowing from other ideas of that time regarding the year of creation.\n\nAfter the Masoretic text was published, dating creation around 4000 BC became common, and it was received with wide support. Proposed calculations of the date of creation, using the Masoretic from the 10th century to the 18th century, were numerous and fluctuated by many decades. Notably, Isaac Newton's calculation pointed at the year 4000 BC. \n\nAmong the Masoretic creation estimates or calculations for the date of creation, Archbishop Ussher's specific chronology dating the creation to 4004 BC became the most accepted and popular in Christendom, mainly because this specific date was attached to the King James Bible. The Hebrew Calendar has traditionally, since the 4th century AD by Hillel II, dated the creation to 3761 BC, in accordance with the \"Seder Olam Rabbah\" compiled by Jose ben Halafta in AD 160, and in agreement with \"The Remaining Signs of Past Centuries\", in which the Muslim chronologist al-Biruni identifies \"anno mundi\" as 3448 years before the Seleucid era but not with \"Seder Olam Zutta\", which dates it to 4339 BC and was compiled in AD 804.\n\n"}
{"id": "4381000", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4381000", "title": "Chinface", "text": "Chinface\n\nA chinface, sometimes referred to as a chinikin, chinhead, chinman, or chinmonster is a performance, usually of a comical nature, involving someone's chin. By drawing or attaching eyes, it gives the impression of a distorted face when viewed upside down.\n\nIn the early 1950s ventriloquist Paul Winchell created a chin face character named Oswald \n\nIn 1964, Bob Denver performed a chin face in the beach party film, \"For Those Who Think Young\".\n\nIn 1988, McEwans Lager launched a new TV ad campaign featuring 'The Chinheads', a fictional and quirky 'upside-down' rock/soul band. The award-winning TV advert was directed by Steve Barron (director of Michael Jackson's \"Billie Jean\", A-Ha's \"Take on Me\", and \"Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles\") and featured the track \"Something So Real\" by Scottish band, The Love Decree.\n\nIn 1989, a single was subsequently released and charted nationally, peaking at No.61 (No.1, Outselling Black Box's \"Ride On Time\" in Scotland).\nThe Love Decree were: Robin Gow (Keyboards/Songwriter), Grant Macintosh (Vocals/Songwriter) and Gordon Gow (Percussion). The track 'Something So Real\" was produced by Robin Gow.\n\nThe 'Chinheads' TV Ad can be viewed Here\n\nBen Elton's 1990 television show \"The Man from Auntie\" featured several chinface performances.\n\nIn 1993, an episode of \"Red Dwarf\", \"Gunmen of the Apocalypse\", Lister used a chinface when the crew had to convince a ship of simulants (artificially created, cyborg humanoids) that there were no humans aboard, insisting instead that the ship was crewed by curry-based lifeforms known as \"Vindaloovians\".\n\nSince video hosting sites have become available on the internet, chinface videos have become increasingly common.\n\nIn the mid–1990s, Kraft Canada released TV ads for Kraft Dinner featuring various people performing chinfaces and eating the product.\n\nThe video game \"You Don't Know Jack\" featured as an ending to Volume 4 \"(The Ride)\" footage showing part of the hosts' faces. The character Guy Towers is portrayed as a chin face, with oversized glasses.\n\nDisc 4 of the \"Jackass\" DVD Box Set features Chris Pontius performing a chinface of a \"Latvian Gangster\" during a running of the Gumball 3000.\n\nThey Might Be Giants' first video, for their song \"Put Your Hand Inside the Puppet Head,\" features one of them doing the chinface, with a xeroxed picture of his eyes placed on his chin.\n\nIn the video for Weird Al Yankovic's style-parody of Devo, his band is shown several times as chinfaces wearing Devo's yellow tyvek suits.\n\nIn the Atomic Brain episode of \"Mystery Science Theater 3000\", Mike Nelson demonstrates to the 'bots a \"chin face\". He says that the tradition is \"fun...whimsical\"; Crow counters that it is \"odd and disturbing\".\n\nIn \"The Nanny\", Fran and Gracie enter a Mother-Daughter beauty pageant, for the talent competition both sang a song as chin faces.\n\nIn the popular French film \"Amélie\", the main character is shown in a scene performing chinface.\n\nIn \"The Amazing World of Gumball\", one of Gumball's classmates, Sussie, is a chin face puppet, as are her parents.\n\nIn \"Jackass 3D\", Chris Pontius performs a chinface of a barbarian as part of the stunt \"Pontius the barbarian\"\n\nIn the YouTube channel The 298Universe, one of the main characters, Bob Cumberland, is a chinkin puppet. He is known as simply, Bob the Chinkin.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1924540", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924540", "title": "Clotilde de Surville", "text": "Clotilde de Surville\n\n\"Clotilde de Surville\" was the supposed author of the \"Poésies de Clotilde\". The generally accepted legend gave the following account of her:\nMarguerite-Éléonore Clotilde de Vallon-Chalys, dame de Surville, was born in the early years of the 15th century at Vallon. In 1421 she married Berenger de Surville, who was killed at the Siege of Orléans in 1428. Her husband's absence at the war inspired her heroic verses and his death her elegiac poems. The last of her poems is a \"chant royal\" addressed to Charles VIII.\n\nIn 1803 Charles Vanderbourg published as the \"Poésies de Clotilde\" some forty poems dealing with love and war. The history given in the introduction of the discovery of the manuscript was evidently a fable, and the poems were set down by most authorities as forgeries, especially as they contained many anachronisms and were written in accordance with modern laws of prosody. The manuscript had been in the possession of Jean François Marie, marquis de Surville, an \"Émigré\" who returned to France in 1798 to raise an insurrection in Provence, and had paid the penalty with his life.\n\nIn 1863 Antonin Mace made further inquiries on the subject and discovered letters from Vanderbourg to Surville's widow. This correspondence makes it clear that Vanderbourg was innocent of forgery and believed that the poems were of 15th century date, and that the anachronisms of matter and form were due to retouching by Surville. But the researches of Mace interested local antiquarians, and documentary evidence was produced that the wife of Berenger de Surville was Marguerite Chalis, not Clotilde, and that the marriage dated only from 1428. Moreover, Berenger, whose death at the siege of Orléans was one of the leading motives of the book, lived for twenty years after that date. Friends of M. de Surville also disclosed the fact that the marquis had contributed archaic poetry to a Lausanne journal.\n\n"}
{"id": "145443", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145443", "title": "Comics", "text": "Comics\n\nThe history of comics has followed different paths in different cultures. Scholars have posited a pre-history as far back as the Lascaux cave paintings. By the mid-20th century, comics flourished particularly in the United States, western Europe (especially in France and Belgium), and Japan. The history of European comics is often traced to Rodolphe Töpffer's cartoon strips of the 1830s, and became popular following the success in the 1930s of strips and books such as \"The Adventures of Tintin\". American comics emerged as a mass medium in the early 20th century with the advent of newspaper comic strips; magazine-style comic books followed in the 1930s, in which the superhero genre became prominent after Superman appeared in 1938. Histories of Japanese comics and cartooning (\"\") propose origins as early as the 12th century. Modern comic strips emerged in Japan in the early 20th century, and the output of comics magazines and books rapidly expanded in the post-World War II era with the popularity of cartoonists such as Osamu Tezuka. had a lowbrow reputation for much of its history, but towards the end of the 20th century began to find greater acceptance with the public and in academia.\n\nThe English term \"comics\" is used as a singular noun when it refers to the medium and a plural when referring to particular instances, such as individual strips or comic books. Though the term derives from the humorous (or \"comic\") work that predominated in early American newspaper comic strips, it has become standard also for non-humorous works. It is common in English to refer to the comics of different cultures by the terms used in their original languages, such as ' for Japanese comics, or ' for French-language comics. There is no consensus amongst theorists and historians on a definition of comics; some emphasize the combination of images and text, some sequentiality or other image relations, and others historical aspects such as mass reproduction or the use of recurring characters. The increasing cross-pollination of concepts from different comics cultures and eras has further made definition difficult.\n\nThe European, American, and Japanese comics traditions have followed different paths. Europeans have seen their tradition as beginning with the Swiss Rodolphe Töpffer from as early as 1827 and Americans have seen the origin of theirs in Richard F. Outcault's 1890s newspaper strip \"The Yellow Kid\", though many Americans have come to recognize Töpffer's precedence. Japan had a long prehistory of satirical cartoons and comics leading up to the World War II era. The ukiyo-e artist Hokusai popularized the Japanese term for comics and cartooning, \"\", in the early 19th century. In the post-war era modern Japanese comics began to flourish when Osamu Tezuka produced a prolific body of work. Towards the close of the 20th century, these three traditions converged in a trend towards book-length comics: the comic album in Europe, the in Japan, and the graphic novel in the English-speaking countries.\n\nOutside of these genealogies, comics theorists and historians have seen precedents for comics in the Lascaux cave paintings in France (some of which appear to be chronological sequences of images), Egyptian hieroglyphs, Trajan's Column in Rome, the 11th-century Norman Bayeux Tapestry, the 1370 ' woodcut, the 15th-century ' and block books, Michelangelo's \"The Last Judgment\" in the Sistine Chapel, and William Hogarth's 18th-century sequential engravings, amongst others.\n\nIllustrated humour periodicals were popular in 19th-century Britain, the earliest of which was the short-lived \"The Glasgow Looking Glass\" in 1825. The most popular was \"Punch\", which popularized the term \"cartoon\" for its humorous caricatures. On occasion the cartoons in these magazines appeared in sequences; the character Ally Sloper featured in the earliest serialized comic strip when the character began to feature in its own weekly magazine in 1884.\n\nAmerican comics developed out of such magazines as \"Puck\", \"Judge\", and \"Life\". The success of illustrated humour supplements in the \"New York World\" and later the \"New York American\", particularly Outcault's \"The Yellow Kid\", led to the development of newspaper comic strips. Early Sunday strips were full-page and often in colour. Between 1896 and 1901 cartoonists experimented with sequentiality, movement, and speech balloons.\n\nShorter, black-and-white daily strips began to appear early in the 20th century, and became established in newspapers after the success in 1907 of Bud Fisher's \"Mutt and Jeff\". In Britain, the Amalgamated Press established a popular style of a sequence of images with text beneath them, including \"Illustrated Chips\" and \"Comic Cuts\". Humour strips predominated at first, and in the 1920s and 1930s strips with continuing stories in genres such as adventure and drama also became popular.\n\nThin periodicals called comic books appeared in the 1930s, at first reprinting newspaper comic strips; by the end of the decade, original content began to dominate. The success in 1938 of \"Action Comics\" and its lead hero Superman marked the beginning of the Golden Age of Comic Books, in which the superhero genre was prominent. In the UK and the Commonwealth, the DC Thomson-created \"Dandy\" (1937) and \"Beano\" (1938) became successful humor-based titles, with a combined circulation of over 2 million copies by the 1950s. Their characters, including \"Dennis the Menace\", \"Desperate Dan\" and \"The Bash Street Kids\" have been read by generations of British schoolboys. The comics originally experimented with superheroes and action stories before settling on humorous strips featuring a mix of the Amalgamated Press and US comic book styles.\n\nThe popularity of superhero comic books declined following World War II, while comic book sales continued to increase as other genres proliferated, such as romance, westerns, crime, horror, and humour. Following a sales peak in the early 1950s, the content of comic books (particularly crime and horror) was subjected to scrutiny from parent groups and government agencies, which culminated in Senate hearings that led to the establishment of the Comics Code Authority self-censoring body. The Code has been blamed for stunting the growth of American comics and maintaining its low status in American society for much of the remainder of the century. Superheroes re-established themselves as the most prominent comic book genre by the early 1960s. Underground comix challenged the Code and readers with adult, countercultural content in the late 1960s and early 1970s. The underground gave birth to the alternative comics movement in the 1980s and its mature, often experimental content in non-superhero genres.\n\nComics in the US has had a lowbrow reputation stemming from its roots in mass culture; cultural elites sometimes saw popular culture as threatening culture and society. In the latter half of the 20th century, popular culture won greater acceptance, and the lines between high and low culture began to blur. Comics nevertheless continued to be stigmatized, as the medium was seen as entertainment for children and illiterates.\n\nThe graphic novel—book-length comics—began to gain attention after Will Eisner popularized the term with his book \"A Contract with God\" (1978). The term became widely known with the public after the commercial success of \"Maus\", \"Watchmen\", and \"The Dark Knight Returns\" in the mid-1980s. In the 21st century graphic novels became established in mainstream bookstores and libraries and webcomics became common.\n\nThe francophone Swiss Rodolphe Töpffer produced comic strips beginning in 1827, and published theories behind the form. Cartoons appeared widely in newspapers and magazines from the 19th century. The success of \"Zig et Puce\" in 1925 popularized the use of speech balloons in European comics, after which Franco-Belgian comics began to dominate. \"The Adventures of Tintin\", with its signature clear line style, was first serialized in newspaper comics supplements beginning in 1929, and became an icon of Franco-Belgian comics.\n\nFollowing the success of (1934–44), dedicated comics magazines and full-colour comic albums became the primary outlet for comics in the mid-20th century. As in the US, at the time comics were seen as infantile and a threat to culture and literacy; commentators stated that \"none bear up to the slightest serious analysis\", and that comics were \"the sabotage of all art and all literature\".\n\nIn the 1960s, the term \"\" (\"drawn strips\") came into wide use in French to denote the medium. Cartoonists began creating comics for mature audiences, and the term \"Ninth Art\" was coined, as comics began to attract public and academic attention as an artform. A group including René Goscinny and Albert Uderzo founded the magazine \"Pilote\" in 1959 to give artists greater freedom over their work. Goscinny and Uderzo's \"The Adventures of Asterix\" appeared in it and went on to become the best-selling French-language comics series. From 1960, the satirical and taboo-breaking \"Hara-Kiri\" defied censorship laws in the countercultural spirit that led to the May 1968 events.\n\nFrustration with censorship and editorial interference led to a group of \"Pilote\" cartoonists to found the adults-only \"L'Écho des savanes\" in 1972. Adult-oriented and experimental comics flourished in the 1970s, such as in the experimental science fiction of Mœbius and others in \"Métal hurlant\", even mainstream publishers took to publishing prestige-format adult comics.\n\nFrom the 1980s, mainstream sensibilities were reasserted and serialization became less common as the number of comics magazines decreased and many comics began to be published directly as albums. Smaller publishers such as L'Association that published longer works in non-traditional formats by \"auteur\"-istic creators also became common. Since the 1990s, mergers resulted in fewer large publishers, while smaller publishers proliferated. Sales overall continued to grow despite the trend towards a shrinking print market.\n\nJapanese comics and cartooning ('), have a history that has been seen as far back as the anthropomorphic characters in the 12th-to-13th-century ', 17th-century ' and ' picture books, and woodblock prints such as ukiyo-e which were popular between the 17th and 20th centuries. The \"\" contained examples of sequential images, movement lines, and sound effects.\n\nIllustrated magazines for Western expatriates introduced Western-style satirical cartoons to Japan in the late 19th century. New publications in both the Western and Japanese styles became popular, and at the end of the 1890s, American-style newspaper comics supplements began to appear in Japan, as well as some American comic strips. 1900 saw the debut of the \"Jiji Manga\" in the \"Jiji Shinpō\" newspaper—the first use of the word \"manga\" in its modern sense, and where, in 1902, Rakuten Kitazawa began the first modern Japanese comic strip. By the 1930s, comic strips were serialized in large-circulation monthly girls' and boys' magazine and collected into hardback volumes.\n\nThe modern era of comics in Japan began after World War II, propelled by the success of the serialized comics of the prolific Osamu Tezuka and the comic strip \"Sazae-san\". Genres and audiences diversified over the following decades. Stories are usually first serialized in magazines which are often hundreds of pages thick and may contain over a dozen stories; they are later compiled in \"\"-format books. At the turn of the 20th and 21st centuries, nearly a quarter of all printed material in Japan was comics. Translations became extremely popular in foreign markets—in some cases equaling or surpassing the sales of domestic comics.\n\nComic strips are generally short, multipanel comics that traditionally most commonly appeared in newspapers. In the US, daily strips have normally occupied a single tier, while Sunday strips have been given multiple tiers. In the early 20th century, daily strips were typically in black-and-white and Sundays were usually in colour and often occupied a full page.\n\nSpecialized comics periodicals formats vary greatly in different cultures. Comic books, primarily an American format, are thin periodicals usually published in colour. European and Japanese comics are frequently serialized in magazines—monthly or weekly in Europe, and usually black-and-white and weekly in Japan. Japanese comics magazine typically run to hundreds of pages.\n\nBook-length comics take different forms in different cultures. European comic albums are most commonly printed in A4-size colour volumes. In English-speaking countries, the trade paperback format originating from collected comic books have also been chosen for original material. Otherwise, bound volumes of comics are called graphic novels and are available in various formats. Despite incorporating the term \"novel\"—a term normally associated with fiction—\"graphic novel\" also refers to non-fiction and collections of short works. Japanese comics are collected in volumes called \"tankōbon\" following magazine serialization.\n\nGag and editorial cartoons usually consist of a single panel, often incorporating a caption or speech balloon. Definitions of comics which emphasize sequence usually exclude gag, editorial, and other single-panel cartoons; they can be included in definitions that emphasize the combination of word and image. Gag cartoons first began to proliferate in broadsheets published in Europe in the 18th and 19th centuries, and the term \"cartoon\" was first used to describe them in 1843 in the British humour magazine \"Punch\".\n\nWebcomics are comics that are available on the internet. They are able to reach large audiences, and new readers usually can access archived installments. Webcomics can make use of an infinite canvas—meaning they are not constrained by size or dimensions of a page.\n\nSome consider storyboards and wordless novels to be comics. Film studios, especially in animation, often use sequences of images as guides for film sequences. These storyboards are not intended as an end product and are rarely seen by the public. Wordless novels are books which use sequences of captionless images to deliver a narrative.\n\nSimilar to the problems of defining literature and film, no consensus has been reached on a definition of the comics medium, and attempted definitions and descriptions have fallen prey to numerous exceptions. Theorists such as Töpffer, R. C. Harvey, Will Eisner, David Carrier, Alain Rey, and Lawrence Grove emphasize the combination of text and images, though there are prominent examples of pantomime comics throughout its history. Other critics, such as Thierry Groensteen and Scott McCloud, have emphasized the primacy of sequences of images. Towards the close of the 20th century, different cultures' discoveries of each other's comics traditions, the rediscovery of forgotten early comics forms, and the rise of new forms made defining comics a more complicated task.\n\nEuropean comics studies began with Töpffer's theories of his own work in the 1840s, which emphasized panel transitions and the visual–verbal combination. No further progress was made until the 1970s. Pierre Fresnault-Deruelle then took a semiotics approach to the study of comics, analyzing text–image relations, page-level image relations, and image discontinuities, or what Scott McCloud later dubbed \"closure\". In 1987, Henri Vanlier introduced the term ', or \"multiframe\", to refer to the comics page as a semantic unit. By the 1990s, theorists such as Benoît Peeters and Thierry Groensteen turned attention to artists' poïetic creative choices. Thierry Smolderen and Harry Morgan have held relativistic views of the definition of comics, a medium that has taken various, equally valid forms over its history. Morgan sees comics as a subset of \"'\" (or \"drawn literatures\"). French theory has come to give special attention to the page, in distinction from American theories such as McCloud's which focus on panel-to-panel transitions. Since the mid-2000s, Neil Cohn has begun analyzing how comics are understood using tools from cognitive science, extending beyond theory by using actual psychological and neuroscience experiments. This work has argued that sequential images and page layouts both use separate rule-bound \"grammars\" to be understood that extend beyond panel-to-panel transitions and categorical distinctions of types of layouts, and that the brain's comprehension of comics is similar to comprehending other domains, such as language and music.\n\nHistorical narratives of \"manga\" tend to focus either on its recent, post-WWII history, or on attempts to demonstrates deep roots in the past, such as to the ' picture scroll of the 12th and 13th centuries, or the early 19th-century \"Hokusai Manga\". The first historical overview of Japanese comics was Seiki Hosokibara's in 1924. Early post-war Japanese criticism was mostly of a left-wing political nature until the 1986 publication of Tomofusa Kure's \"Modern Manga: The Complete Picture\", which de-emphasized politics in favour of formal aspects, such as structure and a \"grammar\" of comics. The field of studies increased rapidly, with numerous books on the subject appearing in the 1990s. Formal theories of ' have focused on developing a \"manga expression theory\", with emphasis on spatial relationships in the structure of images on the page, distinguishing the medium from film or literature, in which the flow of time is the basic organizing element. Comics studies courses have proliferated at Japanese universities, and was established in 2001 to promote comics scholarship. The publication of Frederik L. Schodt's \"Manga! Manga! The World of Japanese Comics\" in 1983 led to the spread of use of the word \"manga\" outside Japan to mean \"Japanese comics\" or \"Japanese-style comics\".\n\nCoulton Waugh attempted the first comprehensive history of American comics with \"The Comics\" (1947). Will Eisner's \"Comics and Sequential Art\" (1985) and Scott McCloud's \"Understanding Comics\" (1993) were early attempts in English to formalize the study of comics. David Carrier's \"The Aesthetics of Comics\" (2000) was the first full-length treatment of comics from a philosophical perspective. Prominent American attempts at definitions of comics include Eisner's, McCloud's, and Harvey's. Eisner described what he called \"sequential art\" as \"the arrangement of pictures or images and words to narrate a story or dramatize an idea\"; Scott McCloud defined comics as \"juxtaposed pictorial and other images in deliberate sequence, intended to convey information and/or to produce an aesthetic response in the viewer\", a strictly formal definition which detached comics from its historical and cultural trappings. R. C. Harvey defined comics as \"pictorial narratives or expositions in which words (often lettered into the picture area within speech balloons) usually contribute to the meaning of the pictures and vice versa\". Each definition has had its detractors. Harvey saw McCloud's definition as excluding single-panel cartoons, and objected to McCloud's de-emphasizing verbal elements, insisting \"the essential characteristic of comics is the incorporation of verbal content\". Aaron Meskin saw McCloud's theories as an artificial attempt to legitimize the place of comics in art history.\n\nCross-cultural study of comics is complicated by the great difference in meaning and scope of the words for \"comics\" in different languages. The French term for comics, ' (\"drawn strip\") emphasizes the juxtaposition of drawn images as a defining factor, which can imply the exclusion of even photographic comics. The term ' is used in Japanese to indicate all forms of comics, cartooning, and caricature.\n\nThe term \"comics\" refers to the comics medium when used as an uncountable noun and thus takes the singular: \"comics \"is\" a medium\" rather than \"comics \"are\" a medium\". When \"comic\" appears as a countable noun it refers to instances of the medium, such as individual comic strips or comic books: \"Tom's comics \"are\" in the basement.\"\n\nPanels are individual images containing a segment of action, often surrounded by a border. Prime moments in a narrative are broken down into panels via a process called encapsulation. The reader puts the pieces together via the process of closure by using background knowledge and an understanding of panel relations to combine panels mentally into events. The size, shape, and arrangement of panels each affect the timing and pacing of the narrative. The contents of a panel may be asynchronous, with events depicted in the same image not necessarily occurring at the same time.\n\nText is frequently incorporated into comics via speech balloons, captions, and sound effects. Speech balloons indicate dialogue (or thought, in the case of thought balloons), with tails pointing at their respective speakers. Captions can give voice to a narrator, convey characters' dialogue or thoughts, or indicate place or time. Speech balloons themselves are strongly associated with comics, such that the addition of one to an image is sufficient to turn the image into comics. Sound effects mimic non-vocal sounds textually using onomatopoeia sound-words.\n\nCartooning is most frequently used in making comics, traditionally using ink (especially India ink) with dip pens or ink brushes; mixed media and digital technology have become common. Cartooning techniques such as motion lines and abstract symbols are often employed.\n\nWhile comics are often the work of a single creator, the labour of making them is frequently divided between a number of specialists. There may be separate writers and artists, and artists may specialize in parts of the artwork such as characters or backgrounds, as is common in Japan. Particularly in American superhero comic books, the art may be divided between a penciller, who lays out the artwork in pencil; an inker, who finishes the artwork in ink; a colourist; and a letterer, who adds the captions and speech balloons.\n\nThe English-language term \"comics\" derives from the humorous (or \"comic\") work which predominated in early American newspaper comic strips; usage of the term has become standard for non-humorous works as well. The term \"comic book\" has a similarly confusing history: they are most often not humorous; nor are they regular books, but rather periodicals. It is common in English to refer to the comics of different cultures by the terms used in their original languages, such as ' for Japanese comics, or ' for French-language Franco-Belgian comics.\n\nMany cultures have taken their words for comics from English, including Russian (, ') and German ('). Similarly, the Chinese term ' and the Korean ' derive from the Chinese characters with which the Japanese term \"\" is written.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nAcademic journals\n\nArchives\n\nDatabases\n"}
{"id": "532404", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=532404", "title": "Culture of Jamaica", "text": "Culture of Jamaica\n\nJamaican culture consists of the religion, norms, values, and lifestyle that define the people of Jamaica. The culture is mixed, with an ethnically diverse society, stemming from a history of inhabitants beginning with the original Taino people. The Spaniards originally brought slavery to Jamaica. Then they were overthrown by the English. Jamaica later gained emancipation on August 1, 1834, and independence from the British on August 6, 1962. Black slaves became the dominant cultural force as they suffered and resisted the harsh conditions of forced labour. After the abolition of slavery, Chinese and Indian migrants were transported to the island as indentured workers, bringing with them ideas from the Far East. These contributions resulted in a diversity that affected the language, music, dance, religion, and social norms and practices of the Jamaicans.\n\nThe official language of the Jamaican people is English (derived from British influence) with a local dialect called Patois (pronounced \"patwa\") that is spoken by a majority of its people. This dialect is a combination of the languages from the different inhabitants in its history. It was developed by the slaves over time in an effort to communicate with each other, especially given that they were from different countries and, for the Africans, also from different tribes.\n\nBy far, the largest religion in Jamaica is the Christian faith. The Anglican Church, Catholic Jesus, Methodist Church, Baptists, Seventh-Day and the Church of God are present throughout the country. Many old churches have been carefully maintained and/or restored. The Rastafari movement is a derivative of the larger Christian culture, but its origins were influenced by rising consciousness of Africa, and an awareness of political events in that continent. There is also a small number of Jewish synagogues in Jamaica, dating from the 17th century. \n\nElements of ancient African religions remain, especially in remote areas throughout the island. Some of these practices are described generally as Obeah, \nKumina, or Pocomania. Though the congregations are small, they are visited by many Christians and non-Christians seeking an experience they have not found in the churches. It is estimated that as much as 40% of the population secretly seek the services of the African traditional religious healers when confronted with serious problems that conventional medicine cannot remedy.\n\n\"The Baha'i movement in Jamaica began about 50 years [in 1942] ago when a doctor from Portland, Dr. Malcolm King, brought the teaching from the United States.\" In 2003, as part of the 60th anniversary celebration of the establishment of Baha'i in Jamaica, the Governor General of Jamaica, Sir Howard Cooke, proclaimed a National Bahá'í Day to be held annually on 25 July. In 2005, the community of about 5000 celebrated their activity and presence in Jamaica with the international Bahá'í choir, \"The Voices of Bahá\". The choir performed at Ward Theatre and the University's Chapel, with proceeds earmarked to two Jamaican charities, (one serving families of policemen slain in the line of duty, and the one Denham Town Golden Age Home).\n\nOther religions practised in the country of Jamaica include Buddhism, Hinduism, and Islam.\n\nOriginating in the 1930s, one of the most prominent, internationally known aspects of Jamaica's African-Caribbean culture is the Rastafari movement, particularly those elements that are expressed through reggae music. In the 1970s and early 1980s, Bob Marley became the most high-profile exponent of the Rastafari culture and belief system. His reputation as an innovative musician devoted to his faith has continued to grow since his death, so that by 2004 his greatest hits compilation, Legend, had sold 20 million copies worldwide, making him arguably the world's most famous Jamaican, and certainly the nation's biggest-selling recording artist.\n\nRastafari itself is a monotheistic belief system, based on teachings found in the Old Testament and the New Testament – particularly the Book of Revelation. However, what distinguishes Rastafari from Christianity, Islam, and Judaism, (which also cite Abrahamic beliefs), is that Rastas believe in the divinity of the Emperor Haile Selassie of Ethiopia.\n\nHailed by Rastas as H.I.M. (His Imperial Majesty), Haile Selassie I is regarded as God himself, the true descendant of Solomon, and the earthly embodiment of Jah (God) – in what believers see as a fulfillment of prophecy regarding the second coming of the Messiah.\n\nThose Rasta beliefs, which are not explicitly mentioned in the Bible (such as the specific name of H.I.M. \"Haile Selassie\"), are not gathered into a single holy text. Instead, Rasta beliefs are primarily shared through a community of songs, chants, and oral testimonies, as well as in written texts (including websites). The extensive use of song makes Rastafari a particularly musical source of Jamaican culture.\n\nRasta cultural traditions include wearing their hair in uncut, uncombed strands known as dreadlocks (in adherence to the Nazarite vow), as well as eating unprocessed (natural) foodstuffs which are known as \"Ital\". However, neither tradition is regarded as compulsory – many people who wear dreadlocks are not Rastas and many Rastas do not wear them.\n\nOne of the most controversial cultural traditions is Rastas' use of ganja as a sacrament which is smoked to aid in reasoning (contemplation and discussion). Cannabis is a strictly prohibited substance in Jamaica, so its use by Rastas means the movement is in a more-or-less permanent state of tension with police agencies.\n\nIn its Jamaican homeland, Rastafari is a minority culture and receives little in the way of official recognition. Jamaica is an overwhelmingly Christian country, so Rasta beliefs and practices – such as the divinity of H.I.M Hailie Selassie – are sometimes regarded as pagan by Christian Jamaicans. (Some Rastas also express hostility towards aspects of Christianity.) Nevertheless, the artistic contributions of the movement, particularly Bob Marley, are widely respected. Marley was awarded the Jamaican Order of Merit in 1981, and there are two official monuments to him.\n\nRastas can be found in many countries outside Jamaica and among many non-Jamaicans. Because it is not a centrally organised religion, there is no way of knowing how many devotees there are.\n\nDance has always been important to Jamaica – from colonial times until the present. Early folk rhythms and movements often enhanced Christian religious celebrations, or were associated with Christian holidays. More recently, dances have become associated with the music of Jamaica, particularly dancehall styles. \n\nDance theatre is also growing in importance. Rex Nettleford, Eddy Thomas, Olive Lewin, and Edna Manley are four Jamaicans whose influences on the arts – music and dance in particular – have been extremely important. Nettleford, Thomas, and Ivy Baxter formed the National Dance Theatre Company in 1962. Other important Jamaicans in dance theatre have included the Tony-Award-winning choreographer Garth Fagan (\"The Lion King\" on Broadway).\n\nDancehall, or reggae, music has inspired a number of dance styles as well. To understand the evolution of popular dance, it helps to understand the musical progression. Ska music, with fast beats, also had fast dances. The slow to rocksteady also developed slower dances, allowing dancers to stay on the floor longer. Reggae is associated with many things, including the Rastafarian movement, but influenced the newer styles.\n\nDancehall music often creates its own dances based on moves in the lyrics of the songs themselves. Soca music from Trinidad and Tobago is popular with most of the popular artists from Trinidad, but many soca Jamaican artist such as Byron Lee, Fab 5, and Lovindeer are famous but also represent Jamaican music.\n\nDaggering is a form of dance originating from Jamaica. The dance incorporates dry sex, wrestling and other forms of frantic movement.\n\nBruckins is a Jamaican dance performed to celebrate Emancipation Day.\n\nJamaica's earliest theatre was built in 1682. Several more theatres opened in the 1700s and 1800s, attracting performances by both professional touring companies and amateur groups. But performances weren't limited to official venues. Many took place in houses, stores, court houses, and enclosed outdoor spaces large enough to hold them. During this period, classic plays such as Shakespeare were most often produced. However, the Jewish and French communities became large enough to merit productions aimed at them, too.\n\nAfter the abolition of slavery, Jamaicans began fusing music, humor, and dance into public theatrical performances. Although it took many years for true Jamaican styles to develop, eventually they became more prevalent than European works. Today's most popular theatrical form in Jamaica, pantomime, began in the 1940s as a fusion of English pantomime with Jamaican folklore. Another popular style, \"Roots\" (Grassroots) Theatre, evolved in the 1960s and 1970s. These riotous bawdy tales remained crowd favorites in Kingston's open-air theatres.\n\nOne artist involved in root plays is Winsome (code name), a Jamaican writer and producer chronicled in Deborah Thomas' book \"Modern Blackness\". Winsome handled all the publicity for her plays herself, and ended up putting them on in the rural areas surrounding Kingston – the city theaters refused to house her plays because of their controversial nature. In her plays, Winsome explores how sex, money, and power interact everyday for Jamaicans. In 1997, Winsome wrote and produced a root play entitled Ruff Rider, in which family, sexual abuse, love, work, and friendship all intersect. According to author Thomas, author of, \"In all of her work, the sympathetic characters are those she portrays as struggling to balance their own pursuit of individual gain with ‘living well together’ with others. As they negotiage the fine lines between egalitarianism and hierarchy, her characters also contribute to the public debate regarding the gendered dimensions of respectability and reputation.\"\n\nOther notable roots play figures include Ralph Holness, Ginger Knight, Balfour Anderson, Michael Denton, Ian Reid, Paul Beil, Everton Dawkins, Luke Ellington (Lukington), Buddy Pouyat and the late Hyacinth Brown.\n\nDerek Walcott, a Nobel prize laureate, born and educated in St. Lucia, attended college in Jamaica. Other significant writers from the island include Claude McKay and Louis Simpson. Plays and works in Jamaican English, or patois, attract special attention. Louise Bennett, Andrew Salkey and Mikey Smith have contributed to this phenomenon by writing works in patois. Ian Fleming wrote his famous James Bond novels while living in Jamaica. Jean Rhys is also well known for her novel \"Wide Sargasso Sea\", which was set in Jamaica.\nJamaican authors are always faced with the decision of writing in standard English for a huge worldwide audience, or in the local patois, for a much smaller, but more trendy, audience. Jamaican films with patois sound-tracks such as The Harder They Come require sub-titles for export to general markets. In general, the use of patois severely limits the potential audience for the otherwise universal Jamaican message. Pauline Wills, author of the book, \"The Imperils of the Maxfield Terrain,\" sections written in patios about the garrison community of Maxfield Avenue. She was born in the parish of St Andrew, Jamaica and a past student of Immaculate Conception High School. Jamaican writer Marlon James won the 2015 Man Booker Prize for his novel \"A Brief History of Seven Killings\".\n\nJamaica's film industry is not widely known, but it is growing. \"The Harder They Come\", \"Rasta Rockett\", \"Shottas\", \"Third World Cop\", \"Rockers\", \"Countryman\", \"Dancehall Queen\" & \" Real Ghetto Youths\" are a few of the best-known Jamaican movies. However, many popular Hollywood movies have also been filmed in Jamaica. A short list includes \"The Blue Lagoon\", \"Cocktail\", \"Cool Runnings\" and James Bond films, \"Dr. No\" and \"Live and Let Die\".\n\nJamaica's leading annual film event \"The Reggae Film Festival\" takes place each February in Jamaica's capital city, Kingston. Members of Jamaica's film industry gather here to make new links and many new projects have grown from the event.\n\nJamaica has many talented film makers but there is a great lack of available funds and resources for film makers. Since the creation of the Reggae Film Festival there have been many new films made in Jamaica and the event has given the industry a real boost, this combined with the recent CARICOM European film treaty which enables Jamaican film makers to seek funding in Europe, has opened up a new door for film makers looking to apply for funding and this will hopefully make a real difference to the future of the industry.\n\nOther more recent feature films made in Jamaica are: 'Almost Heaven', 'Roots Time', 'Wah Do Dem', 'Concrete Jungle', 'Redemption Paradise', 'Real Ghetto Youths', and 'Smile Orange'.\n\nJamaicans have a long history of fine craftsmanship in wood and metal. Jamaica was home to many excellent furniture factories dating from colonial times, and Jamaican \"Georgian\" furniture was exported to the metropolitan countries.\n\nAlso see\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23943446", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23943446", "title": "David Reimer", "text": "David Reimer\n\nDavid Peter Reimer (born Bruce Peter Reimer; 22 August 1965 – 4 May 2004) was a Canadian man born male but reassigned as a girl and raised female following medical advice and intervention after his penis was accidentally destroyed during a botched circumcision in infancy.\n\nThe psychologist John Money oversaw the case and reported the reassignment as successful and as evidence that gender identity is primarily learned. The academic sexologist Milton Diamond later reported that Reimer's realization he was not a girl crystallized between the ages of 9 and 11 years and he transitioned to living as a male at age 15. Well known in medical circles for years anonymously as the \"John/Joan\" case, Reimer later went public with his story to help discourage similar medical practices. He committed suicide after suffering years of severe depression, financial instability, and a troubled marriage.\n\nReimer was born in Winnipeg, Manitoba, on August 22, 1965, the elder of identical twin boys. He was originally named Bruce and his identical twin was named Brian. Their parents were Janet and Ron Reimer, a couple of Mennonite descent who had married the previous December. At the age of six months, after concern was raised about how both of them urinated, the boys were diagnosed with phimosis. They were referred for circumcision at the age of seven months. On April 27, 1966, a urologist performed the operation using the unconventional method of electrocauterization, but the procedure did not go as doctors had planned, and Bruce's penis was burned beyond surgical repair. The doctors chose not to operate on Brian, whose phimosis soon cleared without surgical intervention.\n\nThe parents, concerned about their son's prospects for future happiness and sexual function without a penis, took him to Johns Hopkins Hospital in Baltimore in early 1967 to see John Money, a psychologist who was developing a reputation as a pioneer in the field of sexual development and gender identity, based on his work with intersex patients. Money was a prominent proponent of the \"theory of gender neutrality\"—that gender identity developed primarily as a result of social learning from early childhood and that it could be changed with the appropriate behavioural interventions. The Reimers had seen Money being interviewed in February 1967 on the Canadian news program \"This Hour Has Seven Days\", during which he discussed his theories about gender.\n\nMoney and physicians working with young children born with intersex conditions believed that a penis could not be replaced but that a functional vagina could be constructed surgically. It was also the safest and most conventional pathway to take: Money told the parents it was what would be best for the boy. Money also claimed that Reimer would be more likely to achieve successful, functional sexual maturation as a girl than as a boy. For Money, a case where identical twin boys were involved where one could be raised as a girl provided a perfect test of his theories.\n\nMoney and the Hopkins team persuaded the baby's parents that sex reassignment surgery would be in Reimer's best interest. At the age of 22 months, baby Bruce underwent a bilateral orchidectomy, in which his testes were surgically removed and a rudimentary vulva was fashioned. Bruce was reassigned to be raised as female and given the name Brenda. Psychological support for the reassignment and surgery was provided by John Money, who continued to see Reimer annually for consultations and to assess the outcome. This reassignment was considered an especially valid test case of the social learning concept of gender identity for two reasons: First, Reimer's identical twin brother, Brian, made an ideal control because the brothers shared genes, family environments, and the intrauterine environment. Second, this was reputed to be the first reassignment and reconstruction performed on a male infant who had no abnormality of prenatal or early postnatal sexual differentiation.\n\nReimer said that Money forced the twins to rehearse sexual acts involving \"thrusting movements\", with David playing the bottom role. Reimer said that, as a child, he had to get \"down on all fours\" with his brother, Brian Reimer, \"up behind his butt\" with \"his crotch against\" his \"buttocks\". Reimer said that Money forced David, in another sexual position, to have his \"legs spread\" with Brian on top. Reimer said that Money also forced the children to take their \"clothes off\" and engage in \"genital inspections\". On at \"least one occasion\", Reimer said that Money took a photograph of the two children doing these activities. Money's rationale for these various treatments was his belief that \"childhood 'sexual rehearsal play was important for a \"healthy adult gender identity\".\n\nFor several years, Money reported on Reimer's progress as the \"John/Joan case\". Money wrote, \"The child's behavior is so clearly that of an active little girl and so different from the boyish ways of her twin brother.\" Notes by a former student at Money's lab state that, during the follow-up visits, which occurred only once a year, Reimer's parents routinely lied to lab staff about the success of the procedure. The twin brother, Brian, later developed schizophrenia.\n\nEstrogen was given during adolescence, inducing breast development.\n\nBy the age of 13 years, Reimer was experiencing suicidal depression and he told his parents he would take his own life if they made him see Money again. Finally, on March 14, 1980, Reimer's parents told him the truth about his gender reassignment, following advice from Reimer's endocrinologist and psychiatrist. At 14, having been informed of his past by his father, Reimer decided to assume a male gender identity, calling himself David. By 1987, Reimer had undergone treatment to reverse the reassignment, including testosterone injections, a double mastectomy, and two phalloplasty operations. On September 22, 1990, he married Jane Fontane and would adopt her three children.\n\nHis case came to international attention in 1997 when he told his story to Milton Diamond, an academic sexologist who persuaded Reimer to allow him to report the outcome in order to dissuade physicians from treating other infants similarly. Soon after, Reimer went public with his story and John Colapinto published a widely disseminated and influential account in \"Rolling Stone\" magazine in December 1997. The article won the National Magazine Award for Reporting.\n\nThis was later expanded into the \"New York Times\" best-selling biography \"As Nature Made Him: The Boy Who Was Raised as a Girl\" (2000), in which Colapinto described how—contrary to Money's reports—when living as Brenda, Reimer did not identify as a girl. He was ostracized and bullied by peers (who dubbed him \"cavewoman\"), and neither frilly dresses, nor female hormones made him feel female.\n\nIn addition to his difficult lifelong relationship with his parents, Reimer had to deal with unemployment and the death of his brother Brian from an overdose of antidepressants on July 1, 2002. On May 2, 2004, his wife Jane told him she wanted to separate. On the morning of May 4, 2004, Reimer drove to a grocery store's parking lot in his hometown of Winnipeg and took his own life by shooting himself in the head with a sawed-off shotgun. He was 38 years old. He was buried in St. Vital Cemetery in Winnipeg.\n\nFor the first thirty years after Money's initial report that the reassignment had been a success, Money's view of the malleability of gender became the dominant viewpoint among physicians and doctors, reassuring them that sexual reassignment was the correct decision in certain instances, resulting in thousands of sexual reassignments.\n\nThe report and subsequent book about Reimer influenced several medical practices, reputations, and even current understanding of the biology of gender. The case accelerated the decline of sex reassignment and surgery for unambiguous XY infants with micropenis, various other rare congenital malformations, or penile loss in infancy.\n\nReimer has often been mentioned by intactivists, who use him as an example of what could happen to a man if his parents decide to circumcise him at birth and the effect it can have on him throughout his life.\n\nColapinto's book described unpleasant childhood therapy sessions, implying that Money had ignored or concealed the developing evidence that Reimer's reassignment to female was not going well. Money's defenders have suggested that some of the allegations about the therapy sessions may have been the result of false memory syndrome and that the family was not honest with researchers.\n\nThe case has also been treated by Judith Butler in her 2004 book \"Undoing Gender\", which examines gender, sex, psychoanalysis, and the medical treatment of intersex people.\n\nThe BBC science series \"Horizon\" based two episodes on his life. \"The Boy Who Was Turned into a Girl\" aired in 2000 and \"Dr Money and the Boy with No Penis\" in 2004.\n\nHe was also mentioned in the 2017 documentary \"Gender Revolution: A Journey with Katie Couric\".\n\nAn episode of BBC Radio 4 Mind Changers, \nCase Study: John/Joan - The Boy Who Was Raised as a Girl, discusses the impact on two competing psychological theories of nature vs. nurture.\n\nThe \"Chicago Hope\" episode \"Boys Will Be Girls\" (2000) was based on Reimer's life. The episode explored the theme of a child's right not to undergo sexual reassignment surgery without consent. The \"\" episode \"\" (2005) was based on David and Brian Reimer's lives and their treatment by Money.\n\n\"Hymn of the Medical Oddity\", a song by the Winnipeg-based indie rock band The Weakerthans, is about Reimer. The Ensemble Studio Theatre produced the play \"Boy\" (2016) inspired by Reimer's story.\n\n"}
{"id": "42830213", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42830213", "title": "Dell Upton", "text": "Dell Upton\n\nDell Thayer Upton (born 1949) is an architectural historian. He is chair of the Department of Art History at University of California, Los Angeles, and Professor Emeritus of Architecture at University of California, Berkeley. He previously has taught at the University of Virginia.\n\nUpton studied history and English as an undergraduate at Colgate University.\nHe earned an M.A. and Ph.D. in American Civilization at Brown University.\n\nHe taught for many years at UC Berkeley, before moving in 2002 to the University of Virginia, where he was David A. Harrison Professor of Anthropology and Architecture, with appointments in the School of Architecture and the department of anthropology. He now teaches at University of California, Los Angeles as Professor of Architectural History and is chair of the Department of Art History.\n\nUpton authored the 1998 textbook, \"Architecture in the United States\" for the Oxford University Press' Oxford Art History series. Upton has written extensively on vernacular landscapes of the American built environment. His work on Colonial and Antebellum American include: \"Another City: Urban Life and Urban Spaces in the New American Republic\" (2008. New Haven: Yale University Press), \"Holy Things and Profane: Anglican Parish Churches in Colonial Virginia\" (1986. Cambridge: MIT Press), \"Madaline: Love and Survival in Antebellum New Orleans\" (1996. Athens: University of Georgia Press), and \"America’s Architectural Roots: Ethnic Groups That Built America\" (Washington: Preservation Press). As a founding member of the Vernacular Architecture Forum, Upton has published on materialist history and theory as separate from canonical architectural histories. Works such as \"Common Places: Readings in American Vernacular Architecture\", with John Michael Vlach (Athens: University of Georgia Press) and \"Architecture History or Landscape History?\" in the Journal of the Society of Architectural Historians. He wrote the chief essay for the Metropolitan Museum of Art's exhibition \"Art and the Empire City: New York, 1825–1861\" in 2000.\n\n"}
{"id": "7302228", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7302228", "title": "Distributional semantics", "text": "Distributional semantics\n\nDistributional semantics is a research area that develops and studies theories and methods for quantifying and categorizing semantic similarities between linguistic items based on their distributional properties in large samples of language data. The basic idea of distributional semantics can be summed up in the so-called Distributional hypothesis: \"linguistic items with similar distributions have similar meanings.\"\n\nThe distributional hypothesis in linguistics is derived from the semantic theory of language usage, i.e. words that are used and occur in the same contexts tend to purport similar meanings. \nThe underlying idea that \"a word is characterized by the company it keeps\" was popularized by Firth. \nThe Distributional Hypothesis is the basis for statistical semantics. Although the Distributional Hypothesis originated in linguistics,\nit is now receiving attention in cognitive science especially regarding the context of word use.\nIn recent years, the distributional hypothesis has provided the basis for the theory of similarity-based generalization in language learning: the idea that children can figure out how to use words they've rarely encountered before by generalizing about their use from distributions of similar words.\nThe distributional hypothesis suggests that the more semantically similar two words are, the more distributionally similar they will be in turn, and thus the more that they will tend to occur in similar linguistic contexts. Whether or not this suggestion holds has significant implications for both the data-sparsity problem in computational modeling, and for the question of how children are able to learn language so rapidly given relatively impoverished input (this is also known as the problem of the poverty of the stimulus).\n\nDistributional semantics favor the use of linear algebra as computational tool and representational framework. The basic approach is to collect distributional information in high-dimensional vectors, and to define distributional/semantic similarity in terms of vector similarity. Different kinds of similarities can be extracted depending on which type of distributional information is used to collect the vectors: topical similarities can be extracted by populating the vectors with information on which text regions the linguistic items occur in; paradigmatic similarities can be extracted by populating the vectors with information on which other linguistic items the items co-occur with. Note that the latter type of vectors can also be used to extract syntagmatic similarities by looking at the individual vector components.\n\nThe basic idea of a correlation between distributional and semantic similarity can be operationalized in many different ways. There is a rich variety of computational models implementing distributional semantics, including latent semantic analysis (LSA), Hyperspace Analogue to Language (HAL), syntax- or dependency-based models, random indexing, semantic folding and various variants of the topic model.\n\nDistributional semantic models differ primarily with respect to the following parameters:\n\n\nDistributional semantic models that use linguistic items as context have also been referred to as word space models.\n\nCompositional distributional semantic models are an extension of distributional semantic models that characterize the semantics of entire phrases or sentences. This is achieved by composing the distributional representations of the words that sentences contain. Different approaches to composition have been explored, and are under discussion at established workshops such as SemEval.\n\nSimpler non-compositional models fail to capture the semantics of larger linguistic units as they ignore grammatical structure and logical words, which are crucial for their understanding.\n\nDistributional semantic models have been applied successfully to the following tasks:\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37549630", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37549630", "title": "Dual-route hypothesis to reading aloud", "text": "Dual-route hypothesis to reading aloud\n\nThe dual-route theory of reading aloud was first described in the early 1970s. This theory suggests that two separate mental mechanisms, or cognitive routes, are involved in reading aloud, with output of both mechanisms contributing to the pronunciation of a written stimulus.\n\nOne mechanism, termed the lexical route, is the process whereby skilled readers can recognize known words by sight alone, through a \"dictionary\" lookup procedure. According to this model, every word a reader has learned is represented in a mental database of words and their pronunciations that resembles a dictionary, or internal lexicon. When a skilled reader sees and visually recognizes a written word, he or she is then able to access the dictionary entry for the word and retrieve the information about its pronunciation. The internal lexicon encompasses every learned word, even exception words like 'colonel' or 'pint' that don't follow letter-to-sound rules. This route doesn't enable reading of nonwords (example 'zuce'). There is still no conclusive evidence whether the lexical route functions as a direct pathway going from visual word recognition straight to speech production, or a less direct pathway going from visual word recognition to semantic processing and finally to speech production.\n\nThe nonlexical or sublexical route, on the other hand, is the process whereby the reader can \"sound out\" a written word. This is done by identifying the word's constituent parts (letters, phonemes, graphemes) and, applying knowledge of how these parts are associated with each other, for example how a string of neighboring letters sound together. This mechanism can be thought of as a letter-sound rule system that allows the reader to actively build a phonological representation and read the word aloud. The nonlexical route allows the correct reading of nonwords as well as regular words that follow spelling-sound rules, but not exception words.\nThe dual-route hypothesis of reading has helped researchers explain and understand various facts about normal and abnormal reading.\n\nAccording to research, the amount of time required to master reading depends on the language's adherence to phonological rules. A written language is described as transparent when it strongly adheres to spelling-sound rules and contains few exception words. Because of this, the English language (low transparency) is considered less transparent that French (medium transparency) and Spanish (high transparency) which contain more consistent grapheme-phoneme mappings. This difference explains why it takes more time for children to learn to read English, due to its frequent irregular orthography, compared to French and Spanish. The Spanish language's reliance on phonological rules can account for the fact that Spanish-speaking children exhibit a higher level of performance in nonword reading, compared to English and French-speaking children. Similarly, Spanish surface dyslexics exhibit less impairment in reading overall, because they can rely upon consistent pronunciation rules instead of processing many exception words as a whole in the internal lexicon. The dual-route system thus provides an explanation for the differences in reading acquisition rates as well as dyslexia rates between different languages.\n\nSkilled readers demonstrate longer reaction times when reading aloud irregular words that do not follow spelling-sound rules compared to regular words. When an irregular word is presented, both the lexical and nonlexical pathways are activated but they generate conflicting information that takes time to be resolved. The decision-making process that appears to take place indicates that the two routes are not entirely independent from one another. This data further explains why regular words, that follow spelling-sound rules but also have been stored in long-term memory, are read faster since both pathways can \"agree\" about the issue of pronunciation.\n\nAccording to the current model of dual-route processing, each of the two pathways consumes different amounts of limited attentional resources. The nonlexical pathway is thought to be more active and constructive as it assembles and selects the correct subword units from various potential combinations. For example, when reading the word \"leaf\", that adheres to spelling to sound rules, the reader must assemble and recognize the two-letter grapheme \"ea\" in order to produce the sound \"ee\" that corresponds to it. It engages in controlled processing and thus requires more attentional capacities, which can vary in amount depending on the complexity of the words being assembled. On the other hand, the processing that takes place in the lexical pathway appears to be more automatic, since the word-sound units in it are pre-assembled. Lexical processing is thus considered to be more passive, consuming less attentional resources.\n\nThe dual-route hypothesis to reading can help explain patterns of data connected to certain types of disordered reading, both developmental and acquired.\n\nChildren with reading disorders rely primarily on the sub-lexical route while reading. Research shows that children can decode non-words, letter by letter, accurately but with slow speed. However, in decision tasks, they have trouble differentiating between words and pseudohomophones (non words that sound like real words but are incorrectly spelled), thereby showing that they had impaired internal lexicons.\nBecause children with reading disorders (RD) have both slow reading speeds and impaired lexical routes, there are suggestions that the same processes are involved in lexical route and fast naming of words. Other studies have also confirmed this idea that rapid naming of words is more strongly correlated with orthographical knowledge (lexical route) than with phonological representations (sub-lexical route). Similar results were observed for patients with ADHD.\nResearch concludes that reading disorders and ADHD have common properties: lexical route processing, rapid reading and sublexical route processing deficits as well.\n\nSurface dyslexia was first described by Marshall and Newcombe, and is characterized by the inability to read words that do not follow traditional pronunciation rules. English is also an example of a language that has numerous exceptions to the rules of pronunciation and thus presents a particular challenge to those with surface dyslexia. Patients with surface dyslexia may fail to read such words as yacht, or island for example, because they do not follow prescribed rules of pronunciation. The words will typically be sounded out using “regularizations”, such as pronouncing colonel as Kollonel. Words like state, and abdominal, are examples of words that surface dyslexia sufferers will not have a problem pronouncing, as they do follow proscribed pronunciation rules. Surface dyslexics will read some irregular words correctly if they are high frequency words such as “have” and \"some”. It has been postulated that surface dyslexics are able to read regular words by retrieving the pronunciation through semantic means. Or in other words, retrieving the words by meaning. \n\nSurface dyslexia is also semantically mediated. Meaning that there is a relationship between the word and its meaning and not just the mechanisms in how it is pronounced. People who suffer with surface dyslexia also have the ability to read words and non-words alike. This means the physical production of phonological sounds is not affected by surface dyslexia. \n\nThe mechanism behind surface dyslexia is thought to be involved with the phonologic output of the lexicon and is also often attributed to the disruption of semantics. It is also hypothesized that three deficits cause surface dyslexia. The first deficit is at the visual level in recognizing and processing the irregular word. The second deficit may be located at the level of the output lexicon. This is because patients are able to recognize the semantic meaning of irregular words even if they pronounce them incorrectly in spoken word. This suggests the visual word form system and semantics are relatively preserved. The third deficit is likely related to semantic loss.\n\nWhile Surface dyslexia can be observed in patients with lesions in their temporal lobe, it is primarily associated with patients who have dementias. Such as Alzheimer’s or fronto-temporal dementia. Surface dyslexia is also a characteristic of semantic dementia, in which subjects lose knowledge of the world around them.\n\nTreatment of surface dyslexics involves neuropsychological rehabilitation. The aim of the treatment is to improve the operation of the sub lexical reading route, or the patient’s ability to sound out new words. As well as the operation of the visual word recognition system, to increase the recognition of words. On a more micro level, treatment can also focus on the ability to sound out individual letters before the patient goes on to increasing the ability to sound out entire words.\n\nAcquired phonological dyslexia is a type of dyslexia that results in an inability to read nonwords aloud and to identify the sounds of single letters. However, patients with this disability can holistically read and correctly pronounce words, regardless of length, meaning, or how common they are, as long as they are stored in memory. This type of dyslexia is thought to be caused by damage in the nonlexical route, while the lexical route, that allows reading familiar words, remains intact.\n\nA computational model of a cognitive task is essentially a computer program that aims to mimic human cognitive processing This type of model helps bring out the precise parts of a theory and disregards the ambiguous sections, as only the clearly understood parts of the theory can be converted into a computer program. The ultimate goal of a computational model is to resemble human behavior as closely as possible, such that factors affecting the functioning of the program would similarly affect human behavior and vice versa.\nReading is an area that has been extensively studied via the computational model system. The dual-route cascaded model (DRC) was developed to understand the dual-route to reading in humans.\nSome commonalities between human reading and the DRC model are:\n\n\nThe DRC model has been useful as it was also made to mimic dyslexia. Surface dyslexia was imitated by damaging the orthographic lexicon so that the program made more errors on irregular words than on regular or non-words, just as is observed in surface dyslexia. Phonological dyslexia was similarly modeled by selectively damaging the non-lexical route thereby causing the program to mispronounce non words. As with any model, the DRC model has some limitations and a newer version is currently being developed.\n"}
{"id": "48812771", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48812771", "title": "Genetically modified livestock", "text": "Genetically modified livestock\n\nGenetically modified livestock (GM livestock) are organisms from the group of cattle, sheep, pigs, goats, birds, horses and fish kept for human consumption, whose genetic material (DNA) has been altered using genetic engineering techniques. In some cases, the aim is to introduce a new trait to the animals which does not occur naturally in the species, i.e. transgenesis.\n\nGenetic modification is the direct manipulation of an organism's genome using biotechnology. It is a set of technologies used to change the genetic makeup of cells, including the transfer of genes within and across species boundaries to produce improved or novel organisms.\n\nTransgenesis is the process of introducing a gene from another species called a transgene into a living organism so that the organism exhibits a new property and transmits that property to its offspring.\n\nIn 2006, a pig was engineered to produce omega-3 fatty acids through the expression of a roundworm gene.\n\nEnviropig was a genetically enhanced line of Yorkshire pigs in Canada created with the capability of digesting plant phosphorus more efficiently than conventional Yorkshire pigs. The project ended in 2012. These pigs produced the enzyme phytase, which breaks down the indigestible phosphorus, in their saliva. The enzyme was introduced into the pig chromosome by pronuclear microinjection. With this enzyme, the animal is able to digest cereal grain phosphorus. The use of these pigs would reduce the potential of water pollution since they excrete from 30 to 70.7% less phosphorus in manure depending upon the age and diet. The lower concentrations of phosphorus in surface runoff reduces algal growth, because phosphorus is the limiting nutrient for algae. Because algae consume large amounts of oxygen, it can result in dead zones for fish.\n\nIn 1990, the world's first transgenic bovine, Herman the Bull, was developed. At the early embryo stage, Herman was genetically engineered in a laboratory by Gen Pharm International. Scientists micro-injected cells with the human gene coding for lactoferrin. The Dutch Parliament changed law in December 1992 to allow Herman to reproduce. Eight calves were born in 1994 following a breeding program established at Gen Pharm's European laboratory. All calves inherited the lactoferrin production gene. With subsequent sirings, Herman fathered a total of 83 calves.\n\nIn 2011, Chinese scientists generated dairy cows genetically engineered with genes from human beings to produce milk that would be the same as human breast milk. The researchers claim these transgenic cows to be identical to regular cows. Two months later, scientists from Argentina presented Rosita, a transgenic cow incorporating two human genes, to produce milk with similar properties as human breast milk. In 2012, researchers from New Zealand also developed a genetically engineered cow that produced allergy-free milk.\n\nResearchers have developed GM dairy cattle to grow without horns (sometimes referred to as \"polled\") which can cause injuries to farmers and other animals. The process is called genetic editing. A short strip of DNA was taken from the genome of Red Angus cattle, where it is known to suppress horn growth, and inserted into cells taken from an elite Holstein bull called \"Randy\". Each of the progeny will be a clone of Randy, but without his horns, and their offspring should also be hornless\n\nGoats have been genetically engineered to produce milk containing strong spiderweb-like silk proteins.\n\nThe goat gene sequence has been modified, using fresh umbilical cords taken from kids, in order to code for the human enzyme lysozyme. Researchers wanted to alter the milk produced by the goats, to contain lysozyme in order to fight off bacteria causing diarrhea in humans.\n\nIn November 2015, the FDA of the USA approved the GM AquAdvantage salmon created by AquaBounty for commercial production, sale and consumption. It is the first genetically modified animal to be approved for human consumption. The fish is essentially a GM Atlantic salmon with a Chinook salmon (\"Oncorhynchus tshawytscha\") gene inserted. This allows the fish to produce GH all year round for faster growth as the wild-type fish produces the hormone for only part of the year. The fish also has a second gene inserted from the eel-like ocean pout that acts like an \"on\" switch for the hormone. Pout also have antifreeze proteins in their blood, which allow the GM salmon to survive near-freezing waters and continue their development. The wild-type salmon takes 24 to 30 months to reach market size (4–6 kg) whereas the producers of the GM salmon claim it requires only 18 months for the GM fish to achieve this. It has been claimed that to prevent the genetically modified fish inadvertently breeding with wild salmon, all the fish will be female and reproductively sterile. However, it has also been claimed that a small percentage of the females will remain fertile. Some opponents of the GM salmon have dubbed it the \"Frankenfish\".\n\nGenetically modified triploid fish have been used to stock waterways for angling. Triploid fish are sterile (wildtype are diploid) and therefore their metabolism is targeted to growth rather than reproduction. They grow to large weights making them attractive to anglers. In 2008, the US state of Washington bought more than 40,000 triploid rainbow trout (Oncorhynchus mykiss) and stocked them in 95 inland lakes to increase fish-license sales. Triploid largemouth bass (\"Micropterus salmoides\"), a fish which is keenly sought by anglers, have also been developed.\n\n"}
{"id": "44435615", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44435615", "title": "Gli eroi del doppio gioco", "text": "Gli eroi del doppio gioco\n\nGli eroi del doppio gioco (Italian for \"Heroes of the double play\") is a 1962 Italian comedy film directed by Camillo Mastrocinque. \n\nThe film tells the successful attempts of two families of cancelling the traces of their involvement with Fascism after the Second World War.\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "216924", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=216924", "title": "Go Ask Alice", "text": "Go Ask Alice\n\nGo Ask Alice is a 1971 fiction book about a teenage girl who develops a drug habit at age 15 and runs away from home on a journey of self-destructive escapism. Attributed to \"Anonymous\", the book is in diary form, and was originally presented as being the edited \"real diary\" of the unnamed teenage protagonist. Questions about the book's authenticity and true authorship began to arise in the late 1970s, and it is now generally viewed as a work of fiction written by Beatrice Sparks, a therapist and author who went on to write numerous other books purporting to be real diaries of troubled teenagers. Some sources have also named Linda Glovach as a co-author of the book. \n\nIntended for a young adult audience, \"Go Ask Alice\" became a widely popular bestseller. It was initially praised for conveying a powerful message about the dangers of drug abuse, but more recently has been criticized as poorly written anti-drug propaganda and also as a literary hoax. Nevertheless, its popularity has endured, and as of 2014 it had remained continuously in print since its publication over four decades earlier. \"Go Ask Alice\" has also ranked among the most frequently challenged books for several decades due to its use of profanity and explicit references to sex and rape, as well as drugs.\n\nThe book was adapted into the 1973 television film \"Go Ask Alice\", starring Jamie Smith-Jackson and William Shatner. In 1976, a stage play of the same name, written by Frank Shiras and based on the book, was also published.\n\nThe title was taken from a line in the 1967 Grace Slick-penned Jefferson Airplane song \"White Rabbit\" (\"go ask Alice/when she's ten feet tall\"); the lyrics in turn reference scenes in Lewis Carroll's 1865 novel \"Alice's Adventures In Wonderland\", in which the title character Alice eats and drinks various things, including a mushroom, that make her grow larger or smaller. Slick's song is understood as using Carroll's story as a metaphor for a drug experience.\n\nIn 1968, a 14-year-old girl begins keeping a diary, in which she records her thoughts and concerns about issues such as crushes, weight loss, sexuality, social acceptance, and relating to her parents. The dates and locations mentioned in the book place its events as occurring between 1968 and 1970 in California, Colorado, Oregon, and New York City. The two towns in which the diarist's family reside during the story are not identified, and are only described as being college towns.\n\nThe diarist's father, a college professor, accepts a dean position at a new college, causing the family to relocate. The diarist has difficulty adjusting to her new school, but soon becomes best friends with a girl named Beth. When Beth leaves for summer camp, the diarist returns to her hometown to stay with her grandparents. She meets an old school acquaintance, who invites her to a party. There, glasses of cola—some of which are laced with LSD—are served. The diarist unwittingly ingests LSD and has an intense and pleasurable trip. Over the following days the diarist socializes with the other teens from the party, willingly uses more drugs, and loses her virginity while on LSD. She worries that she may be pregnant, and her grandfather has a minor heart attack. Overwhelmed by her worries, the diarist begins to take sleeping pills, first stolen from her grandparents, then later prescribed by her doctor upon returning home. Her friendship with Beth ends, as both girls have moved in new directions.\n\nThe diarist befriends a hip girl, Chris, with whom she continues to use drugs. They date college students Richie and Ted, who deal drugs and persuade the two girls to help them by selling drugs at schools. When the girls walk in on Richie and Ted stoned and having sex with each other, they realize their boyfriends were just using them to make money. The girls report Richie and Ted to the police and flee to San Francisco. Chris gets a job in a boutique with a glamorous older woman, Shelia. Shelia invites both girls to lavish parties, where they resume taking drugs. One night Shelia and her new boyfriend introduce the girls to heroin and brutally rape them while they are under the influence of the drug. Traumatized, the diarist and Chris move to Berkeley where they open a jewelry shop. Although the shop is a success, they quickly grow tired of it and miss their families; they return home for a happy Christmas.\n\nBack at home, the diarist encounters social pressure from her drug scene friends, and has problems getting along with her parents. Chris and the diarist try to stay away from drugs, but their resolve lapses and they end up on probation after being caught in a police raid. The diarist gets high one night and runs away. She travels to several cities, hitchhiking partway with a girl named Doris who is a victim of child sexual abuse. The diarist continues to use drugs, supporting her habit through prostitution, and experiences homelessness before a priest reunites her with her family. Now determined to avoid drugs, she faces hostility from her former friends, especially after she calls the parents of one girl who shows up high for a babysitting job. The diarist's former friends harass her at school and threaten her and her family. They eventually drug her against her will; she has a bad trip resulting in physical and mental damage, and is sent to a psychiatric hospital. There she bonds with a younger girl named Babbie, who has also been a drug addict and child prostitute.\n\nReleased from the hospital, the diarist returns home, finally free of drugs. She now gets along better with her family, makes new friends, and is romantically involved with Joel, a responsible student from her father's college. She is worried about starting school again, but feels stronger with the support of her new friends and Joel. In an optimistic mood, the diarist decides to stop keeping a diary and instead discuss her problems and thoughts with other people.\n\nThe epilogue states that the subject of the book died three weeks after the final entry. The diarist was found dead in her home by her parents when they returned from a movie. She died from a drug overdose, either accidental or premeditated.\n\nThe anonymous diarist's name is never revealed in the book. In an episode where the diarist describes having sex with a drug dealer, she quotes an onlooker's remark indicating that her name may be Carla. Although a girl named Alice appears very briefly in the book, she is not the diarist, but a fellow runaway whom the diarist meets on the street in Coos Bay, Oregon.\n\nDespite the lack of any evidence in the book that the diarist's name is Alice, the covers of various editions have suggested that her name is Alice by including blurb text such as \"This is Alice's true story\" and \"You can't ask Alice anything anymore. But you can do something—read her diary.\" Reviewers and commentators have also frequently referred to the anonymous diarist as \"Alice\", sometimes for convenience.\n\nIn the 1973 television film based on the book, the protagonist played by Jamie Smith-Jackson is named \"Alice\". The protagonist is also named \"Alice Aberdeen\" in the 1976 stage play adaptation.\n\nThe manuscript that later became \"Go Ask Alice\" was initially prepared for publication by Beatrice Sparks, a Mormon therapist and youth counselor then in her early 50s, who had previously done various forms of writing. Sparks had reportedly noted that the general public at that time lacked knowledge about youth drug abuse, and she likely had both educational and moral motives for publishing the book. Sparks later claimed that the book was based on a real diary she received from a real teenage girl, although this claim was never substantiated and the girl has never been identified (see Authorship and veracity controversies). \n\nWith the help of Art Linkletter, a popular talk show host for whom Sparks had worked as a ghostwriter, the manuscript was passed on to Linkletter's literary agent, who sold it to Prentice Hall. Linkletter, who had become a prominent anti-drug crusader after the 1969 suicide of his daughter Diane, also helped publicize the book. Even before its publication, \"Go Ask Alice\" had racked up large advance orders of 18,000 copies.\n\nUpon its 1971 publication, \"Go Ask Alice\" quickly became a publishing sensation and an international bestseller, being translated into 16 languages. Its success has been attributed to the timing of its publication at the height of the psychedelic era, when the negative effects of drug use were becoming a public concern. Alleen Pace Nilsen has called it \"the book that came closest to being a YA phenomenon\" of its time, although saying it was \"never as famous as [the later] \"Harry Potter\", \"Twilight\", and \"Hunger Games\" series\". In addition to being very popular with its intended young adult audience, \"Go Ask Alice\" also attracted a significant number of adult readers. \n\nLibraries had difficulty obtaining and keeping enough copies of the book on the shelves to meet demand. The 1973 television film based on the book heightened reader interest, and librarians reported having to order additional copies of the book each time the film was broadcast. \n\nBy 1975, more than three million copies of the book had reportedly been sold, and by 1979 the paperback edition had been reprinted 43 times. The book remained continuously in print over the ensuing decades, with reported sales of over four million copies by 1998, and over five million copies by 2009. The actual number of readers probably surpassed the sales figures, as library copies and even personal copies were likely circulated to more than one reader. \"Go Ask Alice\" has been cited as establishing both the commercial potential of young adult fiction in general, and the genre of young adult anti-drug novels, and has been called \"one of the most famous anti-drug books ever published.\"\n\n\"Go Ask Alice\" received positive initial reviews, including praise from Webster Schott in \"The New York Times\", who called it an \"extraordinary work\", a \"superior work\" and a \"document of horrifying reality [that] possesses literary quality\". It was also recommended by \"Library Journal\", \"Publishers Weekly\", and \"The Christian Science Monitor\", and ranked number 1 on the American Library Association's 1971 list of Best Books for Young Adults. Some reviews focused on the realism of the book's material, without further addressing the literary merit of the book. According to Nilsen and Lauren Adams, the book was not subjected to the regular forms of literary criticism because it was presumed to be the real diary of a dead teenager. Lina Goldberg has suggested that the publishers were motivated to list the author as \"Anonymous\" partly to avoid such criticism.\n\nYears after its publication, \"Go Ask Alice\" continued to receive some good reviews, often in the context of defending the book against censors (see Censorship). In a 1995 \"Village Voice\" column for Banned Books Week, Nat Hentoff described it as \"an extraordinarily powerful account of what it's actually like to get hooked on drugs\" that \"doesn't preach\".\n\nHowever, starting in the 1990s, the book began to draw criticism for its heavy-handedness, melodramatic style and inauthenticity, in view of the growing consciousness that it was fiction rather than a real teenager's diary (see Authorship and veracity controversies). Reviewing the book again for \"The New York Times\" in 1998, Marc Oppenheimer called it \"poorly written\", \"laughably written\", and \"incredible\", although some other writers have pointed to the material as being plausible or even appealing to young readers. The portrayal of the diarist's drug use, progressing from unwittingly ingesting LSD to injecting speed within a few days, and making a similar quick transition from her first use of marijuana to heroin, has been deemed unrealistic. The book has been criticized for equating homosexuality with \"degradation\", illness, sin, and guilt. More recent analyses have expressed ethical concerns with the book's presentation of fiction to young readers as a true story. Despite all these criticisms, the book is frequently called a young adult classic.\n\nAlthough school boards and committees reached varying conclusions about whether \"Go Ask Alice\" had literary value, educators generally viewed it as a strong cautionary warning against drug use. It was recommended to parents and assigned or distributed in some schools as an anti-drug teaching tool. However, some adults who read the book as teens or pre-teens have written that they paid little attention to the anti-drug message and instead related to the diarist's thoughts and emotions, or vicariously experienced the thrills of her rebellious behavior. Reading the book for such vicarious experience has been suggested as a positive alternative to actually doing drugs. \"Go Ask Alice\" has also been used in curricula dealing with mood swings and death.\nAlthough \"Go Ask Alice\" has been credited to an anonymous author since its publication, and was originally promoted as the real, albeit edited, diary of a real teenage girl, over time the book has come to be regarded by researchers as a fake memoir written by Beatrice Sparks, possibly with the help of one or more co-authors. Despite significant evidence of Sparks' authorship, a percentage of readers and educators have continued to believe that the book is a true-life account of a teenage girl. \n\n\"Go Ask Alice\" was originally published by Prentice Hall in 1971 as the work of an unnamed author \"Anonymous\". The original edition contained a note signed by \"The Editors\" that included the statements, \"\"Go Ask Alice\" is based on the actual diary of a fifteen-year-old drug user...Names, dates, places and certain events have been changed in accordance with the wishes of those concerned.\" The paperback edition first published in 1972 by Avon Books contained the words \"A Real Diary\" on the front cover just above the title, and the same words were included on the front covers of some later editions. \n\nUpon its publication, almost all contemporary reviewers and the general public accepted it as primarily authored by an anonymous teenager. According to Lauren Adams, \"Publishers Weekly\" magazine was the only source to question the book's authenticity on the grounds that it \"seem[ed] awfully well written\". Reviews described the book as either the authentic diary of a real teenage girl, or as an edited or slightly fictionalized version of her authentic diary. Some sources claimed that the girl's parents had arranged for her diary to be published after her death. However, according to Alleen Pace Nilsen, a \"reputable source in the publishing world\" allegedly said that the book was published anonymously because the parents had initiated legal action and threatened to sue if the published book could be traced back to their daughter.\n\nNot long after \"Go Ask Alice\"s publication, Beatrice Sparks began making public appearances presenting herself as the book's editor. (Ellen Roberts, who in the early 1970s was an editor at Prentice Hall, was also credited at that time with having edited the book; a later source refers to Roberts as having \"consulted\" on the book.) According to Caitlin White, when Sparks' name became public, some researchers discovered that copyright records listed Sparks as the sole author—not editor—of the book, raising questions about whether she had written it herself. Suspicions were heightened in 1979 after two newly published books about troubled teenagers (\"Voices\" and \"Jay's Journal\") advertised Sparks' involvement by calling her \"the author who brought you \"Go Ask Alice\"\".\n\nIn an article by Nilsen, based in part on interviews with Sparks and published in the October 1979 issue of \"School Library Journal\", Sparks said that she had received the diaries that became \"Go Ask Alice\" from a girl she had befriended at a youth conference. The girl allegedly gave Sparks her diaries in order to help Sparks understand the experiences of young drug users and to prevent her parents from reading them. According to Sparks, the girl later died, although not of an overdose. Sparks said she had then transcribed the diaries, destroying parts of them in the process (with the remaining portions locked in the publisher's vault and unavailable for review by Nilsen or other investigators), and added various fictional elements, including the overdose death. Although Sparks did not confirm or deny the allegations that the diarist's parents had threatened a lawsuit, she did say that in order to get a release from the parents, she had only sought to use the diaries as a \"basis to which she would add other incidents and thoughts gleaned from similar case studies,\" according to Nilsen.\n\nNilsen wrote that Sparks now wanted to be seen as the author of the popular \"Go Ask Alice\" in order to promote additional books in the same vein that she had published or was planning to publish. (These books included \"Jay's Journal\", another alleged diary of a real teenager that Sparks was later accused of mostly authoring herself.) Nilsen concluded, \"The question of how much of \"Go Ask Alice\" was written by the real Alice and how much by Beatrice Sparks can only be conjectured.\" Journalist Melissa Katsoulis, in her 2009 history of literary hoaxes \"Telling Tales\", wrote that Sparks was never able to substantiate her claim that \"Go Ask Alice\" was based on the real diary of a real girl and that copyright records continued to list her as the sole author of the work.\n\nUrban folklore expert Barbara Mikkelson of snopes.com has written that even before the authorship revelations, ample evidence indicated that \"Go Ask Alice\" was not an actual diary. According to Mikkelson, the writing style and content—including a lengthy description of an LSD trip but relatively little about \"the loss of [the diarist's] one true love\", school, gossip or ordinary \"chit-chat\"— seems uncharacteristic of a teenage girl's diary. The sophisticated vocabulary of the diary suggested that it had been written by an adult rather than a teen. Mikkelson also noted that in the decades since the book's publication, no one who knew the diarist had ever been tracked down by a reporter or otherwise spoken about or identified the diarist.\n\nIn hindsight, commentators have suggested various motivations for the publishers to present \"Go Ask Alice\" as the work of an anonymous deceased teenager, such as avoiding literary criticism, lending validity to an otherwise improbable story, and stimulating young readers' interest by having the book's anti-drug advice come from a teenager rather than an adult. Sparks said that while there were \"many reasons\" for publishing the book anonymously, her main reason was to make it more credible to young readers. Although the book has been classified as fiction (see Treatment of book as fiction and non-fiction), the publisher has continued to list its author as \"Anonymous\".\n\nSparks was involved in a similar controversy regarding the veracity of her second diary project, the 1979 book \"Jay's Journal\". It was allegedly the real diary, edited by Sparks, of a teenage boy who committed suicide after becoming involved with the occult. The publisher's initial marketing of the book raised questions about whether Sparks had edited a real teenager's diary or written a fictional diary, and recalled the same controversy with respect to \"Go Ask Alice\". Later, the family of real-life teenage suicide Alden Barrett contended that \"Jay's Journal\" used 21 entries from Barrett's real diary that the family had given to Sparks, but that the other 191 entries in the published book had been fictionalized or fabricated by Sparks, and that Barrett had not been involved with the occult or \"devil worship\". \n\nSparks went on to produce numerous other books presented as diaries of anonymous troubled teens (including \"Annie's Baby: The Diary of Anonymous, a Pregnant Teenager\" and \"It Happened to Nancy: By an Anonymous Teenager\") or edited transcripts of therapy sessions with teens (including \"\"). Some commentators have noted that these books use writing styles similar to \"Go Ask Alice\" and contain similar themes, such as tragic consequences for spending time with bad companions, a protagonist who initially gets into trouble by accident or through someone else's actions, and portrayal of premarital sex and homosexuality as always wrong. Although Sparks was typically listed on these books as editor or preparer, the number of similar books that Sparks published, making her \"arguably the most prolific Anonymous author in publishing\", fueled suspicions that she wrote \"Go Ask Alice\".\n\nIn a 1998 \"New York Times\" book review, Mark Oppenheimer suggested that \"Go Ask Alice\" had at least one author besides Sparks. He identified Linda Glovach, an author of young-adult novels, as \"one of the 'preparers'—let's call them forgers—of \"Go Ask Alice\"\", although he did not give his source for this claim. \"Publishers Weekly\", in a review of Glovach's 1998 novel \"Beauty Queen\" (which told the story, in diary form, of a 19-year-old girl addicted to heroin), also stated that Glovach was \"a co-author of \"Go Ask Alice\"\".\n\nFollowing Sparks' statements that she had added fictional elements to \"Go Ask Alice\", the book was classified by its publishers as fiction (and remains so classified as of 2016) and a disclaimer was added to the copyright page: \"This book is a work of fiction. Any references to historical events, real people, or real locales are used fictitiously. Other names, characters, places, and incidents are the product of the author's imagination, and any resemblance to actual events or locales or persons, living or dead, is entirely coincidental.\" \n\nDespite the classification and the disclaimer, \"Go Ask Alice\" has frequently been taught as non-fiction in schools and sold as non-fiction in bookstores. The publishers also continued to suggest that the book was true by including the \"Editors' Note\" stating that the book was based on an actual diary, and listing the author as \"Anonymous\", with no mention of Sparks. As of 2011, a UK paperback edition published and marketed by Arrow Books contained the statement \"This Is Alice's True Story\" on the front cover.\n\n\"Go Ask Alice\" has been a frequent target of censorship challenges due to its inclusion of profanity and references to runaways, drugs, sex and rape. Alleen Pace Nilsen wrote that in 1973, \"Go Ask Alice\" was \"\"the\" book that teens wanted to read and that adults wanted to censor\" and that the censors \"felt the book did more to glorify sex and drugs than to frighten kids away from them.\" Challenges began in the early 1970s following the initial publication of the book, and continued at a high rate through the ensuing decades. \n\nSome challenges resulted in the removal of the book from libraries, or in parental permission being required for a student to check the book out of a library. According to \"The New York Times\", in the 1970s it became common practice for school libraries to keep \"Go Ask Alice\" off library shelves and make it available to students only upon request, a practice which was criticized as being a form of censorship. A 1982 survey of school librarians across the United States, co-sponsored by the National Council of Teachers of English, found that \"Go Ask Alice\" was the most frequently censored book in high school libraries. \n\nDecades after its original publication, \"Go Ask Alice\" became one of the most challenged books of the 1990s and 2000s. On the American Library Association (ALA) list of the 100 most frequently challenged books of the 1990s, \"Go Ask Alice\" was ranked at number 25; on the ALA list compiled for the 2000s, it rose to position 18.\n\nThe likely authoring of the book by one or more adults rather than by an unnamed teenage girl has not been an issue in censorship disputes. Nilsen and others have criticized this on the basis that the dishonesty of presenting a probable fake memoir to young readers as real should raise greater concerns than the content.\n\nThe ABC television network broadcast a made-for-television movie, \"Go Ask Alice\", based on the book. It starred Jamie Smith-Jackson, William Shatner, Ruth Roman, Wendell Burton, Julie Adams, and Andy Griffith. Also among the cast were Robert Carradine, Mackenzie Phillips, and Charles Martin Smith. The film was promoted as an anti-drug film based on a true story.\n\nThe film was first aired as the \"ABC Movie of the Week\" on January 24, 1973. It was subsequently rebroadcast on October 24, 1973 and the network also made screening copies available to school, church and civic groups upon request. The film drew generally good reviews (with one critic calling it \"the finest anti-drug drama ever presented by TV\"), but was also criticized for lacking the complexity of the book and for not offering any solutions to the problem of teen drug addiction. The adaptation by Ellen Violett was nominated for an Emmy Award.\n\nIn 1976, a stage play version of the book, adapted by Frank Shiras, was published by The Dramatic Publishing Company. The play has been produced by various high school and community theatre groups.\n\nStand-up comedian Paul F. Tompkins' 2009 comedy album \"Freak Wharf\" contains a track entitled \"Go Ask Alice\" in which he derides the book as \"the phoniest of balonies\" and jokingly suggests it was authored by the writing staff of the police drama series \"Dragnet\". The album title itself comes from a passage in the book in which the diarist refers to a mental hospital as a \"freak wharf\".\n\nAmerican metalcore band Ice Nine Kills included a song related to the book, entitled \"Alice\", on their 2015 album \"Every Trick in the Book\".\n\n"}
{"id": "29838795", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29838795", "title": "Halloween (poem)", "text": "Halloween (poem)\n\n\"Halloween\" is a poem written by the Scottish poet Robert Burns in 1785. First published in 1786, the poem is included in the \"Kilmarnock volume\". It is one of Burns' longer poems, and employs a mixture of Scots and English. Robert Burns\n\nThe poet John Mayne from Dumfries, South West Scotland, a comparatively obscure follower of the Scottish Muses, had attempted a poem on the subject of Halloween in 1780. Having twelve stanzas, the poem makes note of pranks at Halloween; \"What fearfu' pranks ensue!\", as well as the supernatural associated with the night, \"Bogies\" (ghosts). The poem appeared in \"Ruddimans Weekly Magazine\", November 1780, published by Walter Ruddiman in Edinburgh. That the Ayrshire poet Burns actually saw and was influenced by Mayne's composition is apparent, as he appears to communicate with Mayne's work, and also echoes some of his imagery. According to Burns, Halloween is \"thought to be a night when witches, devils, and other mischief-making beings are all abroad on their baneful midnight errands\".\n\nA poem recited by Scots at Halloween, Robert Burns' poetry revolves around country and town life, the life he knew, and by using Scots alongside English, and by the sheer power of his expression in both, Burns gives an account of the charms of the West of Scotland.\n\nThe poem has 28 stanzas. \n\n"}
{"id": "9395866", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9395866", "title": "Homowo", "text": "Homowo\n\nHomowo is a festival celebrated by the Ga people of Ghana. The festival starts in the month of May with the planting of crops before the rainy season starts. During the festival, they perform a dance called Kpanlogo. The Ga people celebrate Homowo in the remembrance of the famine that once happened in their history in precolonial Ghana.\n\nThe word Homowo (\"Homo\" - hunger, \"wo\" - hoot) can mean \"to hoot (or jeer) at hunger\" in the Ga language. The tradition of Homowo started with a period of hunger leading to famine due to failure of the seasonal rains needed by crops in the Greater Accra Region, where the Ga people predominantly dwell. When the rains returned to normal, the Ga people celebrated by creating the Homowo festival, hence its name and meaning. Homowo is greatly celebrated in all the towns in the Ga state with celebrations climaxing in Gamashie. The celebration begins with the planting of maize, which will be used in preparing the food for the festival named Kpokpoi or Kpekple. During this period, noise making is prohibited or banned since it is believed that it will hinder the maturity of the crop. The meal is eaten with Palm Nut Soup and it is also sprinkled within the town. This is normally done by traditional leaders and family heads. Celebration includes marching down roads and streets beating drums, chanting, face painting, singing and traditional dances. On this day there is usually a lot of traffic and roads are usually blocked off to accommodate the festival. Even though it is a Ga tradition, many other ethnic groups are welcomed to also join in the celebration.\n\nSome of the towns that celebrate Homowo are La, Teshie, Nungua, Osu, Ga-Mashie, Tema among others.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2350273", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2350273", "title": "I've Got You Under My Skin (Angel)", "text": "I've Got You Under My Skin (Angel)\n\n\"I've Got You Under My Skin\" is episode 14 of season one in the television show \"Angel\". Just as Cordelia succeeds at opening Angel up about Doyle and the events surrounding his death, she suffers a vision about an ancient Ethros demon, which turns out to have been possessing a young boy, Ryan Anderson, for years. Angel, Wesley and Cordelia perform an exorcism that expels the demon from the child, but it escapes the trap they set and roams free to possess once more. Even worse, they learn that the mass-murdering Ethros demon does \"not\" pose the biggest threat to the Anderson family's well-being.\n\nCordelia finally gets Angel to talk about Doyle's death when she suddenly has a vision. Angel and Wesley go to the envisioned house in the suburbs when a boy named Ryan from the house walks out onto the street. Angel saves him from an oncoming car, and he talks with the parents, Paige and Seth. Noticing that something is off but not sure what is going on, Angel takes advantage of Paige's overflowing gratitude and takes her up on a dinner invitation about which Seth clearly disapproves. Outside, Wesley finds glowing goo called \"plakticine\" (similar to ectoplasm) oozing from the foundation all around the house and they realize someone in the house is possessed by a powerful mass-murdering Ethros demon. Angel suspects the father, but the only way to be sure which family member is possessed is to have each ingest eucalyptus powder, which will force the demon to manifest. They mix the powder with brownies that Angel brings to dinner, where Angel watches Seth carefully and it isn't until the daughter Stephanie screams that he sees the demon horrifically manifesting in Ryan before the boy falls unconscious. Paige is frantic and accuses Angel of poisoning her son, but Seth supports Angel, reminding Paige that something has been truly wrong with the boy since long before Angel's advent. They agree to attempt an exorcism and take the boy and his parents back to Angel's place for preparations.\n\nCordelia establishes a magic circle of protection around the bed to bind Ryan there. Stressing that Ryan is not himself anymore, Angel warns Seth and Paige, particularly Paige, that they risk being killed if they break the barrier or go anywhere near the boy. Angel and Wesley try to make contact with the priest reputed to be professionally trained to perform exorcisms but find that he has died and they must attempt the exorcism themselves. Meanwhile, Ryan has seemingly regained consciousness and commences tormenting Paige with guilt at leaving him abandoned and alone in the dark. Her resolve breaks, and when she rushes to his side he begins strangling her; after a tense few minutes, Wesley and Angel rush into the bedroom and manage to pull Paige from Ryan's choke hold, but their efforts send the demon deeper, and the boy again lapses into unconsciousness. Upon learning from Cordelia's research that expelling the demon will send him to the nearest \"warm body\", Angel sends her to procure an Ethros box from Rick's Magick & Stuff, which is supposed to hold the Ethros demon. Rick's, however, does not have an Ethros Box, so Cordelia instead buys a box intended for another type of demon. While Cordelia shops, Wesley attempts the exorcism. He manages to raise the demon far enough to animate the boy once more, and the Ethros cruelly taunts him about his inadequacies as a youth and as a Watcher until Wesley grows visibly more distracted and vulnerable. He fails. Someone or something telekinetically uses marbles on the table to write the words, \"Save me\". The demon taunts Angel and he wraps his hand with a length of cloth, grabs the cross and Wesley's small volume of incantations, and strides into the bedroom. Holding the cross pressed to Ryan's chest, Angel ignores the pain of his hand sizzling through the protective layers and begins to chant, his voice growing louder and more commanding as he repeats the ritual phrases until, finally, he shouts, \"Now get the hell out!\" With an invisible rush, the demon is expelled from the boy, but the box Cordelia bought is unable to contain the demon's energy and shatters.\n\nSome time later, after sending the Andersons home, the AI team tries to determine the demon's current whereabouts. They realize the Ethros demon will need to take corporeal form to recharge itself after expending so much energy to escape. Leaving Cordelia behind, Welsey and Angel search the sea caves and find the Ethros demon. They are surprised when the evil being reveals that the boy Ryan is soulless. The demon had been inside the boy, but unable to manifest because of Ryan's naturally evil personality until Ryan ate Angel's brownies. They realize that the \"save me\" message was from the demon, and the boy walking in front of the car on the first night was the demon sleepwalking Ryan to kill him. Angel kills the demon swiftly, and he and Wesley realize that the Andersons are in even greater danger now that they believe themselves safe at last.\n\nThat night in the Andersons' home after everyone is asleep, Ryan, his door unlocked for the first time in a long time, steals matches from Seth's bedstand, then locks his parents' door shut with a toy block. Ignoring his now-awake parents as they struggle to open the door, the boy sloshes gasoline over his sister's toys and furniture, then lights a match and tosses it down. The room ignites with a whoosh, cutting Stephanie off from the door by a wall of flame. Seth and Paige finally burst out and find Ryan staring entranced at the roaring flames while Stephanie screams from behind them. Angel suddenly crashes through the window opposite and scoops Stephanie into his arms as Wesley hustles Ryan and his parents down the hall to safety. A little while later, Angel and Seth stand outside while firemen contain the blaze. Behind Seth, Paige and Stephanie huddle together near the front door. Detective Kate Lockley comes over to inform Seth that Social Services is taking custody of Ryan, and that they can see him in the morning, but that there won't be anything to report until after the evaluation. Angel redirects Seth's attention from the son he cannot save to the wife and daughter he has already protected. Almost imperceptibly nodding his thanks, Seth turns to embrace his welcoming family. Angel makes his own way out to the sidewalk.\n\nThis was \"one of the very early scripts that we wrote before Doyle was killed,\" says writer Tim Minear. He struggled with the story until coming up with the idea that Angel should accidentally call Wesley \"Doyle\", which gave the script a cohesive theme about the pain of losing a family member. At the end of the episode Seth Anderson loses his son, and at the beginning Angel has lost someone like a son; Minear says both are \"desperately trying to keep their family together, and through no fault of their own, they can't.\"\n\nJoss Whedon came up with the twist that Ryan Anderson was more evil than the demon who possessed him. He also cut the priest who, in the first draft of the script, performed the exorcism. Whedon questioned why Wesley couldn't perform the ritual, and Minear says, \"Suddenly it makes perfect sense, because Angel's problem at the beginning of the story is, 'I let Doyle die... because he did something that I couldn't do.' Now you have Wesley saying, 'I can perform this exorcism; you can't.'\" When Angel later saves Wesley's life, Minear says \"he's sort of atoning for the Doyle thing.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2795898", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2795898", "title": "International Federation of Film Critics", "text": "International Federation of Film Critics\n\nThe International Federation of Film Critics (FIPRESCI, short for Fédération Internationale de la Presse Cinématographique) is an association of national organizations of professional film critics and film journalists from around the world for \"the promotion and development of film culture and for the safeguarding of professional interests.\" It was founded in June 1930 in Brussels, Belgium. At present it has members in more than 50 countries worldwide.\n\nThe FIPRESCI often gives out awards during film festivals (such as the Vienna International Film Festival, the Toronto International Film Festival, the Cannes Film Festival, the Venice Film Festival and the Warsaw International Film Festival) to reward what they see as enterprising film making.\n\nWinners of the award include:\nRobert Bresson refused this award at the 1974 Cannes Film Festival.\n\nAs of 2005, it also offers an online cinema journal, \"Undercurrents,\" edited by film critic Chris Fujiwara.\n\n"}
{"id": "15400465", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15400465", "title": "Jigsaw (teaching technique)", "text": "Jigsaw (teaching technique)\n\nThe jigsaw technique is a method of organizing classroom activity that makes students dependent on each other to succeed. It breaks classes into groups and breaks assignments into pieces that the group assembles to complete the (jigsaw) puzzle. It was designed by social psychologist Elliot Aronson to help weaken racial cliques in forcibly integrated schools.\n\nThe technique splits classes into mixed groups to work on small problems that the group collates into a final outcome. For example, an in-class assignment is divided into topics. Students are then split into groups with one member assigned to each topic. Working individually, each student learns about his or her topic and presents it to their group. Next, students gather into groups divided by topic. Each member presents again to the topic group. In same-topic groups, students reconcile points of view and synthesize information. They create a final report. Finally, the original groups reconvene and listen to presentations from each member. The final presentations provide all group members with an understanding of their own material, as well as the findings that have emerged from topic-specific group discussion.\n\nIn the late 1950s, America was going through desegregation of public schools. In 1954, the Brown v. Board of Education decision of the Supreme Court of the United States created a legal requirement for integration of public schools by ruling that separating schools made them inherently unequal. Actual integration was a painful process, taking years.\n\nSchools were plagued with fights, discrimination, and hate crimes. White supremacist groups and hateful white students terrorized new students. This prevented students from feeling safe in their schools and harmed all their learning abilities. Students often could hardly sit in the same room together without incident, much less work together. This created a problem for teachers, students, parents, communities, and the country alike, as an entire generation of students were distracted from learning by rampant hatred and discrimination.\n\nIt was at this time that psychologists were pulled in to advise schools on what to do to correct this problem. In 1971, Dr. Elliot Aronson was hired to advise an Austin, Texas school district on how to defuse the problems of hostile classrooms and distrust between the students. Aronson was a psychologist at the University of Texas at Austin at the time, and took a psychological approach to help fix the problems in the classrooms. \nCompetition among students had become extremely high. It was quickly realized that the competitive nature of the classroom encouraged students to taunt each other and discriminate against those different than them, so that they might vault themselves higher in status. In order to counter this problem, students were placed in diversified groups so that they would be required to work together and reduce the competitive atmosphere. Students were having difficulty adjusting to the mixing of ethnicity in the classroom. Aronson created an atmosphere for increased collaboration and reduction of the resistance to work with one another. Aronson created assignments that made every member of the group equally important. The students had to pay attention and obtain much information from other group members. This allows for each member of the group to add a small piece of the larger picture so that they are all important to the group. This teaches the students to rely on each other and reduces their competitive attitudes toward each other because they need everyone in their group to do well because their grade depends on the other students.\n\nStudents in jigsaw classrooms (\"jigsaws\") showed a decrease in prejudice and stereotyping, liked in-group and out-group members more, showed higher levels of self-esteem, performed better on standardized exams, liked school more, reduced absenteeism, and mixed with students of other races in areas other than the classroom compared to students in traditional classrooms (\"trads\").\n\nDiane Bridgeman demonstrated that jigsaws displayed greater empathy than trads. She assessed fifth-graders.\n\nHalf of her subjects had spent two months in a jigsaw classroom while the other half were in a traditional classroom. The children viewed cartoons to assess their empathy. Trads displayed lower empathy than jigsaws.\n\nGeffner assessed fifth-graders' attitudes about themselves, school, and other students. He worked in the Santa Cruz County, California, school district which had a ratio of 50% Caucasian students to 50% Hispanic students. He assessed trads, jigsaws and students in classrooms that used a cooperative technique that did not rely on interdependence (\"coops\"). He used a modified version of Blaney's questionnaire and a modified version of the Pictorial Concept Scale for Children. This scale placed cartoon stick figures in various situations, including five self-esteem dimensions: athletic abilities, scholastic abilities, physical appearance, family interactions and social interactions. These measures were used as pre- and post-intervention measures. Interventions lasted eight weeks.\n\nCoops and jigsaws improved or maintained positive attitudes about themselves, school, peers and academic abilities and self-esteem. Trads demonstrated poorer attitudes about peers, themselves, and academic abilities.\n\nThe first experiment with the jigsaw classroom was by Blaney, Stephan, Rosenfield, Aronson, and Sikes in 1977. The technique was assessed in ten fifth grade classes across seven schools.\n\nThree fifth grade classes from each school were the controls. Trad teachers were peer-rated as good teachers. The experimental classes worked in jigsaw groups for 45 minutes a day, three days a week, for six weeks. Both groups used similar curricula. The jigsaw groups contained members from all ethnic groups. Student questionnaires assessed attitudes about themselves, school and toward peer teaching, cooperation and attitudes towards group members other students in the class. These measures were used as pre- and post-intervention.\n\nSignificant increases were seen in jigsaw self-esteem accompanied by a decrease in trad self-esteem. Jigsaw students liked school more, (Caucasians generally, Mexican-Americans slightly, but not African-Americans.) Trad students liked school less (Caucasians generally, not Mexican-Americans, and African-Americans significantly.) The authors contribute this to the fact that Mexican-American jigsaws may have felt forced to participate in peer teaching. Two other questions produced significant results. Competitiveness among jigsaws decreased and increased among trads. Jigsaws felt they could learn more from other students while trads did not. Students reported increase liking of their group members, but they also increased their liking of other students in the class.\n\nHänze and Berger assessed 12th-grade physics classes in 2007. They took eight 12th-grade classes and randomly assigned them to either the jigsaw technique or direct instruction. Students were assessed for academic performance and completed a questionnaire looking at personality variables (goal orientation, self-concept, and uncertainty orientation). The topics (motion of electrons and electromagnetic oscillations and waves) were introduced through direct instruction in both branches. Students completed the learning experience questionnaire after the instruction as a pretest measure. Jigsaws were given the learning experience questionnaire after working in the expert group and after working in the jigsaw group. Trads were given the learning experience questionnaire at the end of the lesson.\n\nAcademic performance was reasessed a few days after the learning unit. Clear difference emerged in the learning experience, but not in academic performances. Jigsaws showed higher achievement in their \"expert\" areas, but trads scored better on areas that jigsaws learned from their peers. Jigsaws had a more favorable view of the learning experience, stronger intrinsic motivation, greater interest in the topic and more cognitive activation and involvement than trads. Jigsaws were more involved and more interested in the material and were seen as more competent, more socially related to other students and more autonomous. Indirect effects on performance were implied because students viewed themselves as more competent, but without direct impact on achievement.\n\nPerkins and Saris assessed an undergraduate statistics course in 2001. They noted that a part of class instruction was doing worksheets. Worksheets give immediate feedback, allow for repeated practice, make students active rather than passive learners and allow students to ask for help from the instructor. Drawbacks include students' uneven readiness the substantial time required to complete.\n\nStudents worked in groups on two separate occasions. In the first, four worksheets were supplied. Pairs of students were given the same worksheet and worked together to compute various statistical quantities. For the first study an example of the computation and interpretation were provided. After discussion, students received one of two worksheets that directed them through the steps for completing the procedures for one of the remaining designs with a partial solution for each step.\n\nThe handout also contained the next-to-last step for the other design. One group of students received step-by-step instruction and partial solutions for the second and a nearly complete solution for the third design and the other group received step-by-step information for the third design and the almost complete solution for the second. Students were instructed to work with a classmate holding a complementary handout. Students were then asked to rate the exercise on usefulness of getting help, giving help, working with classmates, providing an alternative to a lecture, saving time and understanding the statistical procedures.\n\nStudents perceived the jigsaw procedure as being very positive especially as an alternative learning experience. Jigsaws rated the technique as more useful for practical purposes than for interpersonal purposes such as working with others or giving/getting help. Students appreciated the technique as a time-saver and viewed it is a change of pace.\n\nWalker and Crogan looked at the effects of a cooperative learning environment, the jigsaw method and traditional classes on academic performance, self-esteem, liking of school, liking of peers and racial prejudice in Australia. They looked at 103 students in grades 4–6 at one private and one public school. Cooperative learning was used as a baseline measure for the effects of cooperation.\n\nThe sixth-grade and fifth grade classes hosted coops and trads, respectively. The study was confounded by changes in procedures for the coops and the departure of the trad teacher, resulting in a shortened, four week schedule. The choice to designate the sixth grade class as \"traditional cooperation\" rather than \"failed jigsaw\" was criticized by Bratt. In the public school, a fourth-grade class experienced a three-week jigsaw program. The trad class was a split fourth/fifth-grade class. Each experimental branch had a same-school control.\n\nFor the private school, there were 31 students in the experimental group and 29 students in the control group. At the public school, there were 20 students and two teachers in the experimental group, with 23 students and only one teacher in the control group. Teachers were given a description of the program and the key facts were discussed with them.\n\nPublic school jigsaw groups balanced ethnicity, academic ability and sex evenly. \"Best\" friends and \"worst\" enemies were separated. Prior to implementation, jigsaws familiarized themselves with their group peers, practiced their roles as peer tutors and practiced relevant skills such as discussing main ideas, reading for meaning, listening and quizzing peers on important information.\n\nAt the private school, students in the experimental class received the cooperative learning program for 90 minutes each day, twice a week, for four weeks. At the public school, students in the experimental class received the Jigsaw program for an hour a day, five days a week, for three weeks. Measures were taken pre- and post-intervention. Academic performance data was available only from the public school. Self-esteem was measured by the Piers-Harris Children's Self-concept Scale (CSCS). Students rated their classmates according to how much they would like to work and play with them. Racial prejudice measures were assessed students’ attitudes to Asian-Australians, Aborigines and European-Australians using one measure of social distance and one of stereotyping.\n\nAcademic performance improved for those in the Jigsaw group. Jigsaw self-esteem increased at both schools compared to trads, for liking of school and for playing with peers but the gains were not significant. Jigsaws increased their ratings in working with peers when compared to their relative control group. Coops were not motivated by the prospect of working cooperatively.\n\nJigsaws liked ingroup and outgroup peers more in work-oriented relationships, but not for coops. Social distance ratings for Asian-Australian and European-Australian children decreased across the program, but European-Australian ratings increased. Jigsaws attributed fewer negative traits to Asian- and European-Australians. Coops showed an increase in stereotyping. The study demonstrated that the Jigsaw method is effective in Australian social conditions in producing positive change in academic performance, attitudes to peers and prejudice. Cooperative learning on the other hand produced generally negative results. Interdependence seemed to be more important than cooperation.\n\nBratt presented two studies on Jigsaw, one in grade 6 (Study 1), one in grades 8 to 10 (Study 2). Bratt focused on the claimed effectiveness of Jigsaw to reduce prejudice. The first study gave similar findings as Walker and Crogan, but Bratt stressed that the data could not be interpreted as establishing positive Jigsaw effects.\nBratt’s Study 1 included two schools, with one Jigsaw class and one control class at each school. The experiment covered seven weeks. The analysis focused on ethnic Norwegian children (n = 34 in each class).\n\nThe study of sixth graders was confounded by the fact that the Jigsaw class had two teachers whereas the control class had only one teacher.\n\nStudy 2 assessed 11 Jigsaw classes and 11 matched control classes. Jigsaw teachers were well trained and repeatedly met during the eight-week experiment. The analysis focused on 264 ethnic Norwegian students. Study 2 failed to indicate effects of Jigsaw on intergroup attitudes, cross-group friendship, common ingroup identity, empathy and attitudes toward school. These variables were measured before, immediately after and six months after the first measure. \n\nBratt concluded that the two studies did not support Jigsaw. Bratt also pointed out methodological limitations in previous studies, arguing that due to these limitations there was still no empirical evidence to conclude that the Jigsaw technique reduces prejudice. For instance, Walker and Crogan reclassified a Jigsaw class as a control class after the Jigsaw technique failed in this class.\n\n"}
{"id": "217280", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=217280", "title": "Kindergarten", "text": "Kindergarten\n\nKindergarten (, ; from German , literally meaning 'garden for the children') is a preschool educational approach based on playing, singing, practical activities such as drawing, and social interaction as part of the transition from home to school. Such institutions were originally created in the late 18th century in Bavaria and Strasbourg to serve children whose parents both worked outside home. The term was coined by the German Friedrich Fröbel, whose approach globally influenced early-years education. Today, the term is used in many countries to describe a variety of educational institutions and learning spaces for children ranging from two to seven years of age, based on a variety of teaching methods.\nIn 1779, Johann Friedrich Oberlin and Louise Scheppler founded in Strasbourg an early establishment for caring for and educating pre-school children whose parents were absent during the day. At about the same time, in 1780, similar infant establishments were established in Bavaria. In 1802, Princess Pauline zur Lippe established a preschool center in Detmold, the capital of the then principality of Lippe, Germany (now in the State of North Rhine-Westphalia).\n\nIn 1816, Robert Owen, a philosopher and pedagogue, opened the first British and probably globally the first infants school in New Lanark, Scotland. In conjunction with his venture for cooperative mills Owen wanted the children to be given a good moral education so that they would be fit for work. His system was successful in producing obedient children with basic literacy and numeracy.\n\nSamuel Wilderspin opened his first infant school in London in 1819, and went on to establish hundreds more. He published many works on the subject, and his work became the model for infant schools throughout England and further afield. Play was an important part of Wilderspin's system of education. He is credited with inventing the playground. In 1823, Wilderspin published \"On the Importance of Educating the Infant Poor\", based on the school. He began working for the Infant School Society the next year, informing others about his views. He also wrote \"The Infant System, for developing the physical, intellectual, and moral powers of all children from 1 to seven years of age\".\n\nCountess Theresa Brunszvik (1775–1861), who had known and been influenced by Johann Heinrich Pestalozzi, was influenced by this example to open an \"Angyalkert\" (\"angel garden\" in Hungarian) on May 27, 1828, in her residence in Buda, the first of eleven care centers that she founded for young children. In 1836 she established an institute for the foundation of preschool centers. The idea became popular among the nobility and the middle class and was copied throughout the Kingdom of Hungary.\n\nFriedrich Fröbel (1782–1852) opened a \"play and activity\" institute in 1837 in the village of Bad Blankenburg in the principality of Schwarzburg-Rudolstadt, Thuringia, as an experimental social experience for children entering school. He renamed his institute \"\" on June 28, 1840, reflecting his belief that children should be nurtured and nourished \"like plants in a garden\".\n\nWomen trained by Fröbel opened kindergartens throughout Europe and around the world. The first kindergarten in the US was founded in Watertown, Wisconsin in 1856 and was conducted in German by Margaretha Meyer-Schurz.\n\nElizabeth Peabody founded the first English-language kindergarten in the US in 1860. The first free kindergarten in the US was founded in 1870 by Conrad Poppenhusen, a German industrialist and philanthropist, who also established the Poppenhusen Institute. The first publicly financed kindergarten in the US was established in St. Louis in 1873 by Susan Blow.\n\nCanada's first private kindergarten was opened by the Wesleyan Methodist Church in Charlottetown, Prince Edward Island, in 1870. By the end of the decade, they were common in large Canadian towns and cities. The country's first public-school kindergartens were established in Berlin, Ontario (modern Kitchener), in 1882 T Central School). In 1885, the Toronto Normal School (teacher training) opened a department for kindergarten teaching.\n\nElizabeth Harrison wrote extensively on the theory of early childhood education and worked to enhance educational standards for kindergarten teachers by establishing what became the National College of Education in 1886.\n\nIn Afghanistan, children between the ages of 3 and 6 attend kindergartens (; ). Although kindergartens in Afghanistan are not part of the school system, they are often run by the government.\n\nEarly Childhood Development programs were first introduced during the Soviet occupation with the establishment in 1980 of 27 urban preschools, or kodakistan. The number of preschools grew steadily during the 1980s, peaking in 1990 with more than 270 in Afghanistan. At this peak, there were 2,300 teachers caring for more than 21,000 children in the country. These facilities were an urban phenomenon, mostly in Kabul, and were attached to schools, government offices, or factories. Based on the Soviet model, these Early Childhood Development programs provided nursery care, preschool, and kindergarten for children from 3 months to 6 years of age under the direction of the Department of Labor and Social Welfare.\n\nThe vast majority of Afghan families were never exposed to this system, and many of these families were in opposition to these programs due to the belief that it diminishes the central role of the family and inculcates children with Soviet values. With the onset of civil war after the Soviet withdrawal, the number of kindergartens dropped rapidly. By 1995, only 88 functioning facilities serving 2,110 children survived, and the Taliban restrictions on female employment eliminated all of the remaining centers in areas under their control. In 2007, there were about 260 kindergarten/pre-school centers serving over 25,000 children. Though every government center is required to have an early childhood center, at present, no governmental policies deal with early childhood and no institutions have either the responsibility or the capacity to provide such services.\n\nIn each state of Australia, \"kindergarten\" (frequently referred to as \"kinder\" or \"kindy\") means something slightly different. In Tasmania, New South Wales and the Australian Capital Territory, it is the first year of primary school. In Victoria, kindergarten is a form of preschool and may be referred to interchangeably as preschool or kindergarten. In Victoria and Tasmania, the phrase for the first year of primary school is called \"Prep\" (short for \"preparatory\"), which is followed by grade 1. \n\nIn Queensland, kindergarten is usually an institution for children around the age of 4 and thus it is the precursor to preschool and primary education. In recent years though, Kindergartens have been taking children as young as 6 months old. \n\nThe year preceding the first year of primary school education in Western Australia, South Australia or the Northern Territory is referred to respectively as \"pre-primary\", \"reception\" or \"transition\".\n\nIn Bangladesh, the term \"kindergarten\", or \"KG School\" (Kindergarten School), is used to refer to the schooling children attend from 3 to 6 years of age. The names of the levels are nursery, \"shishu\" (children), etc. But the view of kindergarten education has changed much from previous years. Almost every rural area now has at least one Kindergarten School, with most being run in the Bengali language. They also follow the textbooks published by the National Curriculum and Textbook Board (NCTB) with a light modification, adding some extra books in syllabus. The grades generally start from Nursery (sometimes \"Play\"), \"KG\" afterwards, and ends with the 5th grade. Separate from the National Education System, kindergarten is contributing greatly toward achieving the Millennium Development Goal of universal primary education in Bangladesh.\n\nIn Bulgaria, the term \"detska gradina\" (деτска градина) refers to the schooling children attend from 3 to 7 (in some cases 6) years of age. Since 2012, two years of pre-school education are compulsory. These two years of mandatory pre-school education may be attended either at kindergarten or in preparatory groups at primary schools.\n\nSchools outside of Ontario and the Northwest Territories generally provide one year of kindergarten, except some private schools offer junior kindergarten for 4-year-olds (school before kindergarten is most commonly referred to as pre-school). After kindergarten, the child begins grade one. The province of Nova Scotia refers to Kindergarten as Grade Primary.\n\nThe province of Ontario and the Northwest Territories provide two years of kindergarten. Within the province of Quebec, junior kindergarten is called \"prématernelle\" (which is not mandatory), is attended by 4-year-olds, and senior kindergarten is called \"maternelle\", which is also not mandatory by the age of 5, this class is integrated into primary schools. Within the French school system in the province of Ontario, junior kindergarten is called \"maternelle\" and senior kindergarten is called \"jardin d'enfants\", which is a calque of the German word \"Kindergarten\".\n\nIn Chile, the term equivalent to Kindergarten is \"\"Educación parvularia\", sometimes also called \"Educación Preescolar\". It is the first level of the Chilean educational system. It meets the needs of boys and girls integrally from their birth until their entry to the \"Educación Básica\" (Primary education), without being considered as compulsory. Generally, schools imparting this level, the JUNJI (National Council of Kindergarten Schools) and other private institutions have the following organization of groups or subcategories of levels:\n\nIn China, pre-school education, before the child enters formal schooling at 6 years of age, is generally divided into a \"nursery\" or \"preschool\" stage and a \"kindergarten\" (幼儿园 (yòu'éryuán) stage. These can be two separate institutions, or a single combined one in different areas. Where there are two separate institutions, it is common for the kindergarten to consist of the two upper years, and the preschool to consist of one lower year. Common names for these three years are:\n\nIn some places, children at 5-6 years may in addition or instead attend \"reception\" or \"preparatory\" classes (学前班/xué qián bān) focusing on preparing children for formal schooling.\n\nState (public) kindergartens only accept children older than 3 years, while private ones do not have such limitations.\n\nKindergarten is a day-care service offered to children from age three until the child starts attending school. Kindergarten classes (grade 0) are voluntary and are offered by primary schools before a child enters 1st grade.\n\nTwo-thirds of established day-care institutions in Denmark are municipal day-care centres while the other third are privately owned and are run by associations of parents or businesses in agreement with local authorities. In terms of both finances and subject-matter, municipal and private institutions function according to the same principles.\n\nDenmark is credited with pioneering (although not inventing) forest kindergartens, in which children spend most of every day outside in a natural environment.\n\nIn Egypt, children may go to kindergartens for two years (KG1 and KG2) between the ages of four and six.\n\nIn France, pre-school is known as ' (French for \"nursery school\", literally \"maternal school\"). Free ' schools are available throughout the country, welcoming children aged from 3 to 6 (although in many places, children under three may not be granted a place). The ages are divided into ' (GS: 5-year-olds), ' (MS: 4-year-olds), ' (PS: 3-year-olds) and ' (TPS: 2-year-olds). It is not compulsory, yet almost all children aged 3 to 5 attend. It is regulated by the Ministry of National Education.\n\nIn Germany, a ' (masculine: \"der\" Kindergarten, plural ') is a facility for the care of pre-school children who are typically at least three years old. By contrast, ' or ' refers to a crèche for the care of children before they enter ' (9 weeks to about three years), '—literally \"children's day site\", usually shortened to \"\"—is an umbrella term for any day care facility for pre-schoolers.\n\nAttendance is voluntary, and usually not free of charge. Pre-school children over the age of one are entitled to receive local and affordable daycare. Within the federal system, fall under the responsibility of the states, which usually delegate a large share of the responsibility to the municipalities. Due to the subsidiarity principle stipulated by §4 , there are a multitude of operators, from municipalities, churches and welfare societies to parents' initiatives and profit-based corporations. Many follow a certain educational approach, such as Montessori, Reggio Emilia, \" or Waldorf; forest kindergartens are well established. Most \" are subsidised by the community councils, with the fees depending on the income of the parents.\n\nEven in smaller townships, there are often both Roman Catholic and Lutheran kindergartens available. Places in crèches and kindergarten are often difficult to secure and must be 'reserved' in advance, although the situation has improved with a new law in effect August 2013. The availability of childcare, however, varies greatly by region. It is usually better in eastern regions, and in big cities in the north, such as Berlin or Hamburg, and poorest in parts of Southern Germany.\n\nAll caretakers in ' or ' must have a three-year qualified education, or are under special supervision during training.\n\n' can be open from 7am to 5pm or longer and may also house a crèche (') for children between the ages of eight weeks and three years, and possibly an afternoon ' (often associated with a primary school) for school-age children aged 6 to 10 who spend the time after their lessons there. Alongside nurseries, there are day-care nurses (' or \"\") working independently of any pre-school institution in individual homes and looking after only three to five children, typically up to the age of three. These nurses are supported and supervised by local authorities.\n\nThe term ' (\"pre-school\") is used both for educational efforts in ' and for a mandatory class that is usually connected to a primary school. Both systems are handled differently in each German state. The ' is a type of '.\n\nPre-primary Services in Hong Kong refers to provision of education and care to young children by kindergartens and child care centres. Kindergartens, registered with the Education Bureau, provide services for children from three to six years old. Child care centres, on the other hand, are registered with the Social Welfare Department and include nurseries, catering for children aged two to three, and creches, looking after infants from birth to two.\n\nAt present, most of the kindergartens operate on half-day basis offering upper, lower kindergarten classes and nursery classes. Some kindergartens operate full-day kindergarten classes too. Child care centres also provide full-day and half-day services with most centres providing full-day services.\n\nThe aim of pre-primary education in Hong Kong is to provide children with a relaxing and pleasurable learning environment to promote a balanced development of different aspects necessary to a child's development such as the physical, intellectual, language, social, emotional and aesthetic aspects.\n\nTo help establish the culture of self-evaluation in kindergartens and to provide reference for the public in assessing the quality and standard of pre-primary education, the Education Bureau has developed Performance Indicators for pre-primary institutions in Hong Kong. Commencing in the 2000/01 school year, Quality Assurance Inspection was launched to further promote the development of quality Early Childhood Education.\n\nIn Hungary a kindergarten is called an \"\" (\"place for caring\"). Children attend kindergarten between ages 3–6/7 (they go to school in the year in which they have their 7th birthday). Attendance in kindergarten is compulsory from the age of 3 years, though exceptions are made for developmental reasons. Though kindergartens may include programs in subjects such as foreign languages and music, children spend most of their time playing. In their last year, children begin to be prepared to attend elementary school.\n\nMost kindergartens are state-funded. Kindergarten teachers are required to have a diploma.\n\nIn India, there are only informal directives pertaining to pre-primary education, for which pre-primary schools and sections need no affiliation. Directives state that children who are three years old on 30 May in the given academic year are eligible to attend Nursery and Kindergarten classes. Typically, children spend 3 to 4 years of their time in pre-primary school after which they are eligible to attend 1st Standard in Primary School which falls under HRD ministry norms. Primary education is now compulsory in India, and accompanied with mid-day meals, in most parts of the country run by the government. Pre-primary is not mandatory, however preferred. All government schools and affiliated private schools allow children who are 5 years of age as of 30 May to enroll to standard 1 of a primary school.\n\nIn Italy, pre-school education refers to two different grades:\n\nItalian \" were officially instituted in a 1971 State Law (L. 1044/1971), and may be ruled by either private or public institutions. They were originally established to allow mothers a chance to work out of their homes, and were therefore seen as a social service. Today, they mostly serve the purpose of general education and social interaction. In Italy, much effort has been spent on developing a pedagogical approach to children's care: well known is the so-called Reggio Emilia approach, named after the city of Reggio Emilia, in Emilia-Romagna.\n\n' normally occupy small one-story buildings, surrounded by gardens; usually suitable for no more than 60 or 70 children. The heart of the ' are the classrooms, split into playroom and restroom; the playroom always has windows and doors leading to the outside playground and garden.\n\nMaternal schools (') were established in 1968 after State Law n. 444 and are a full part of the official Italian education system, though attendance is not compulsory. Like ' (nursery schools), maternal schools may be held either by public or private institutions.\n\nEarly childhood education begins at home, and there are numerous books and television shows aimed at helping mothers & fathers of preschool children to educate their children and to parent more effectively. Much of the home training is devoted to teaching manners, proper social behavior, and structured play, although verbal and number skills are also popular themes. Parents are strongly committed to early education and frequently enroll their children in preschools.\nKindergartens (幼稚園 yōchien), predominantly staffed by young female junior college graduates, are supervised by the Ministry of Education but are not part of the official education system. The 58% of kindergartens that are private accounted for 77% of all children enrolled. In addition to kindergartens, there exists a well-developed system of government-supervised day-care centers (保育園 hoikuen), supervised by the Ministry of Labor. Whereas kindergartens follow educational aims, preschools are predominantly concerned with providing care for infants and toddlers. Just as there are public and private kindergartens, there are both public and privately run preschools. Together, these two kinds of institutions enroll well over 90 percent of all preschool-age children prior to their entrance into the formal system at first grade. The Ministry of Education's 1990 Course of Study for Preschools, which applies to both kinds of institutions, covers such areas as human relationships, health, environment, language, and expression. Starting from March 2008 the new revision of curriculum guidelines for kindergartens as well as for preschools came into effect.\n\nIn South Korea, children normally attend kindergarten ( \"yuchi won\") between the ages of three or four and six or seven in the Western age system. (Korean ages are calculated differently from Western ages: when they are born they are considered one-year-olds, rather than one day old. Additionally, every January 1, everyone's age increases by one year regardless of when their birthday is. Hence in Korea, kindergarten children are called five-, six- and seven-year-olds.) The school year begins in March. It is followed by primary school. Normally the kindergartens are graded on a three-tier basis.\n\nKorean kindergartens are private schools, and monthly costs vary. Korean parents often send their children to English kindergartens to give them a head start in English. Such specialized kindergartens can be mostly taught in Korean with some English lessons, mostly taught in English with some Korean lessons, or completely taught in English. Almost all middle-class parents send their children to kindergarten.\n\nKindergarten programs in South Korea attempt to incorporate much academic instruction alongside more playful activities. Korean kindergartners learn to read, write (often in English as well as Korean) and do simple arithmetic. Classes are conducted in a traditional classroom setting, with the children focused on the teacher and one lesson or activity at a time. The goal of the teacher is to overcome weak points in each child's knowledge or skills.\n\nBecause the education system in Korea is very competitive, kindergartens are becoming more intensely academic. Children are pushed to read and write at a very young age. They also become accustomed to regular and considerable amounts of homework. These very young children may also attend other specialized afternoon schools, taking lessons in art, piano or violin, taekwondo, ballet, soccer or mathematics.\n\nIn Kosovo, kindergarten is known as \"Çerdhe\" or \"Kopshti i fëmijëve\", and they serve as Day Care Centers. There are public and private kindergartens, and they are for children under the age of 3. Children between 3–6 years old go to \"Institucione parashkollore\", which are different from the Day Care Centers, because here children start the basic learning process, and they serve as preparatory institutions for the Primary School. After the age of 6, children continue in Primary School. However, neither the Day Care Centers nor the Preparatory Institutions are mandatory.\n\nIn Kuwait, Kuwaiti children may go to free government kindergartens for two years (KG1 and KG2) between the ages of four and six.\n\nIn Luxembourg, a Kindergarten is called \"Spillschoul\" (literally \"Playschool\", plural \"Spillschoulen\"). It is a public education facility which is attended by children between the age of 4 (or 5) and 6 when they advance to the \"Grondschoul\" (elementary school).\n\nThe Macedonian equivalent of kindergarten is \"detska gradinka\" (), sometimes called \"zabavishte\" () when the kids are younger than 4 years. \"Detska gradinka\" is not part of the state's mandatory education, because the educational process in the country begins at the age of 5 or 6, i.e. first grade.\n\nIn Malaysia, kindergarten is known as \"\". Most kindergartens are available to children of ages five and six (and some are available to children as young as four). For children up to the age of three (or four), there are pre-school playgroups. There are no fixed rules for when a child needs to go to a kindergarten, but the majority will when the child turns 5 years old. The child will usually attend kindergarten for two years, before proceeding to primary school at age 7.\n\nIn Mexico, kindergarten is called \"kínder\", with the last year sometimes referred to as \"preprimaria\" (\"primaria\" is the name given to grades 1 through 6, so the name literally means \"prior to elementary school\"). The kindergarten system in Mexico was developed by professor Rosaura Zapata, who received the country's highest honor for her contribution. It consists of three years of pre-school education, which are mandatory before elementary school. Previous nursery is optional and may be offered in either private schools or public schools.\n\nAt private schools, kinders usually consist of three grades, and a fourth one may be added for nursery. The fourth one is called maternal. It goes before the other three years and is not obligatory. While the first grade is a playgroup, the other two are of classroom education.\n\nIn 2002, the Congress of the Union approved the \"Law of Obligatory Pre-schooling\", which made pre-school education for three to six-year-olds obligatory, and placed it under the auspices of the federal and state ministries of education.\n\nIn Mongolia, kindergarten is known as \"цэцэрлэг\" or \"tsetserleg\". As of September 2013, there are approximately 152 kindergartens registered in the country. From those 152 kindergartens, 142 are state owned. Children begin kindergarten at the age of 2 and finish it by 5. The education system before kindergarten in Mongolia is called \"ясль\", which accepts children between 0 and 2 years of age.\n\nIn Morocco, pre-school is known as \"école maternelle\", \"kuttab\", or \"ar-rawd\". State-run, free \"maternelle\" schools are available throughout the kingdom, welcoming children aged from 2 to 5 (although in many places, children under 3 may not be granted a place). It is not compulsory, yet almost 80% of children aged 3 to 5 attend. It is regulated by the Moroccan department of education.\n\nIn Nepal, kindergartens are run as private institutions, with their lessons conducted in English. The kindergarten education in Nepal is most similar to that of Hong Kong and India. Children start attending kindergarten from the age of 2 until they are at least 5 years old.\n\nThe kindergartens in Nepal have the following grades:\n\nIn the Netherlands, the equivalent term to kindergarten was '. From the mid-19th century to the mid-20th century the term ' was also common, after Friedrich Fröbel. However, this term gradually faded in use as the verb ' gained a slightly derogatory meaning in everyday language. Until 1985, it used to be a separate non-compulsory form of education (for children aged 4–6 years), after which children (aged 6–12 years) attended the primary school (\"lagere school\"). After 1985, both forms were integrated into one, called ' (Dutch for primary education). For children under 4, the country offers private, subsidized daycares (\"\"), which are noncompulsory but nevertheless very popular.\n\nIn New Zealand, kindergarten can refer to education in the 2 years preceding primary school, from age 3 to 4. Primary Education starts at age 5. \n\nIn Norway, \"barnehage\" (children garden) is the term equivalent to kindergarten, used for children in the ages between 10 months and 6 years. The first \"barnehager\" were founded in Norway in the late 19th century. Although they have existed for 120 years, they are not considered part of the education system. They are both publicly and privately owned and operated. The staff, at minimum the manager, should be educated as \"barnehagelærer\" (kindergarten teacher), previously known as \"førskolelærer\" (pre-school teachers). The children spend most of the time outdoors. There is also an institution called \"barnepark\" (children's park), which does not need to have certified staff.\n\nIn Peru, the term \"nido\" refers to the schooling children attend from 3 to 6 years of age. It is followed by primary school classes, which last for six years. Some families choose to send their children to primary school at the age of 6. In 1902 the teacher Elvira Garcia and Garcia co-founder of the Society cited above, organized the first kindergarten for children 2 to 8 years old, Fanning annex to the Lyceum for ladies. Her studies and concern for children led her to spread through conferences and numerous documents, the importance of protecting children early and to respond to the formation of a personality based on justice and understanding, as well as the use of methods Fröbel and from Montessori and participation of parents in this educational task.\n\nIn the Philippines, education officially starts at the Elementary level and placing children into early childhood education through kindergarten is optional to parents. Early childhood education in the Philippines is classified into:\n\nEarly childhood education was strengthened through the creation of the Early Childhood Care and Development Act of 2000 (Republic Act No. 8980). In 2011, the Department of Education disseminated copies of the Kindergarten Education Act through Republic Act No. 10157 making it compulsory and mandatory in the entire nation. As a provision in this law, children under five years old are required to enroll in a kindergarten in any public elementary school in the country. This goes with the implementation of the K-12 system in the Basic Education Curriculum.\n\nIn Romania, ', which means \"little garden\", is the favored form of education for preschool children usually aged 3–6. The children are divided in three groups: \"little group\" (', age 3–4), \"medium group\" (', age 4-5) and \"big group\" (', age 5-6). In the last few years, private kindergartens have become popular, supplementing the state preschool education system. Kindergarten is optional. The \"preparatory school year\" (\"clasa pregătitoare\") is for children aged 6–7, and since it became compulsory in 2012, it usually takes place at school.\n\nIn the Russian Federation, (\"dyetskiy sad\", literal translation of \"children's garden\") is a preschool educational institution for children, usually 3 to 6 years of age.\n\nKindergartens (commonly known as creche) in South Africa provide from 0-6 years of age spent of preschool programs for children of all ages up to six. The one to three-year program, known as \"nursery\", \"kindergarten 1\" (K1), and \"kindergarten 2\" (K2), prepares children for their first year in primary school education. Some kindergartens further divide nursery into N1 and N2.\n\nIn Spain, kindergarten is called ', ' or ', and serves children from 3 to 6 years of age. It's commonly known by some people as '.\n\n1º ciclo de Educación Infantil (from 0 to 3 years of age)\n2º ciclo de Educación Infantil (from 3 to 6 years of age).\n\nKindergarten in Sudan is divided into private and public kindergarten. Preschool is compulsory in Sudan. The proper kindergarten age spans from 3–6 years. The curriculum covers Arabic, English, religion, mathematics and more.\n\nIn Sweden, kindergarten activities were established in the 19th century, and have been widely expanded since the 1970s. The first Swedish kindergarten teachers were trained by Henriette Schrader-Breymann at the Pestalozzi-Fröbel Haus, which she founded in 1882.\n\nWhile many public kindergartens and preschools exist in Taiwan, private kindergartens and preschools are also quite popular. Many private preschools offer accelerated courses in various subjects to compete with public preschools and capitalize on public demand for academic achievement. Curriculum at such preschools often encompasses subject material such as science, art, physical education and even mathematics classes. The majority of these schools are part of large school chains, which operate under franchise arrangements. In return for annual fees, the chain enterprises may supply advertising, curriculum, books, materials, training, and even staff for each individual school.\n\nThere has been a huge growth in the number of privately owned and operated English immersion preschools in Taiwan since 1999. These English immersion preschools generally employ native English speaking teachers to teach the whole preschool curriculum in an \"English only\" environment. The legality of these types of schools has been called into question on many occasions, yet they continue to prosper. Some members of Taiwanese society have raised concerns as to whether local children should be placed in English immersion environments at such a young age, and have raised fears that the students abilities in their mother language may suffer as a result. The debate continues, but at the present time, the market for English Immersion Preschools continues to grow.\n\nIn 2010, a total of 56% of children aged one to six years old had the opportunity to attend preschool education, the Education and Science Ministry of Ukraine reported in August 2010. Many preschools and kindergartens were closed previously in light of economic and demographic considerations.\n\nThe term kindergarten is rarely used in the UK to describe modern pre-school education or the first year(s) of compulsory primary school education. Pre-schools are usually known as creche, nursery schools or playgroups, while the first year of compulsory schooling is known as Reception in England, \"Dosbarth Derbyn\" in Welsh (\"reception class\") and Primary One in Scotland and Northern Ireland. Nursery forms part of the Foundation Stage of education. In the 1980s, England and Wales officially adopted the Northern Irish system whereby children start school either in the term or year in which they will become five depending on the policy of the local education authority. In Scotland, schooling becomes compulsory between the ages of 4½ and 5½ years, depending on their birthday (school starts in August for children who were 4 by the end of the preceding February).\n\nHowever, the word \"kindergarten\" is used for more specialist organisations such as forest kindergartens and is sometimes used in the naming of private nurseries that provide full-day child care for working parents. Historically the word was used during the nineteenth century when activists like Adelaide Manning were introducing educators to the work of Friedrich Fröbel.\n\nIn the UK, parents have the option of nursery for their children at the ages of three or four years, before compulsory education begins. Before that, less structured childcare is available privately. The details vary between England, Northern Ireland, Scotland and Wales.\n\nSome nurseries are attached to state infant or primary schools, but many are provided by the private sector. The Scottish government provides funding so that all children from the age of three until they start compulsory school can attend five sessions per week of two and a half hours each, either in state-run or private nurseries. Working parents can also receive from their employers childcare worth £55 per week free of income tax, which is typically enough to pay for one or two days per week.\n\nThe Scottish Government defines its requirements for nursery schools in the Early Years Framework and the Curriculum for Excellence. Each school interprets these with more or less independence (depending on their management structure) but must satisfy the Care Commission in order to retain their licence to operate. The curriculum aims to develop:\n\nIn the US, kindergarten is usually part of the K-12 educational system. In most state and private schools, children begin kindergarten at age 5 and attend for one year. They do activities such as addition (+), subtraction (-), and playing outside on the playground. Forty-three states require their school districts to offer a kindergarten year.\n\nIn a typical US kindergarten classroom, resources like toys, picture books, and crayons are available for children's use. The daily schedule varies from town to town, but there are some similarities. In the morning, the children usually do circle time. This includes saying the pledge of allegiance, looking at the calendar, and discussing the weather and season that day. Next, the children work on different subjects:\n\nIn math, kindergartners usually do single digit addition and subtraction, learn to count with \"more or less\" games, become acquainted with a clock, and learn skip counting to prepare them for one digit multiplication. \n\nIn language arts (English), children learn sight words, (cat, fun), rhyming, blends, and silent e. They then learn how to write, form sentences, and are required to write three complete sentences by the end of the year.\n\nIn social studies, kindergartners learn about the months, U.S. states, the continents, and sometimes about people performing community functions (e.g. doctor, barber, teacher) and places (e.g.\"You go to a hospital when you're sick or to have surgery.\" \"You go to a park to play.\")\n\nAfter a few lessons, there is a break for lunch. Children either fetch their own lunchboxes brought from home or get a lunch from the cafeteria and eat it (or take) there or in the classroom. Sometimes after lunch the children have recess, some students' favorite part of the day, when they can go outside to play on swings, slides, play basketball, or socialize. After recess kindergartners go back inside to do more learning. Some schools let children take a nap or do free choice (blocks, tic tac toe, play doh, etc.)\nWhen kindergarten is over for the day, parents or guardians come to pick up their child or the children ride a bus home.\n\n\nThe following reading list relates specifically to kindergarten in North America, where it is the first year of formal schooling and not part of the pre-school system as it is in the rest of the world:\n\n"}
{"id": "4930633", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4930633", "title": "Kirchstetten", "text": "Kirchstetten\n\nKirchstetten is a town in district of Sankt Pölten-Land in the Austrian state of Lower Austria.\n\nIt was the home during part of their lives to the Austrian poet Josef Weinheber and the English poet W. H. Auden. Auden is buried in a Kirchstetten churchyard and his home, at Hinterholz 6, houses a small writer's home museum to the poet in his loft study.\n\n"}
{"id": "46541440", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46541440", "title": "Lisa E. Bloom", "text": "Lisa E. Bloom\n\nLisa E. Bloom (born 1958) is an American cultural critic, educator and feminist art historian specializing in polar studies, contemporary art, environmental art, history of photography, visual culture and film studies and is known for her books and essay contributions to these areas.\n\nLisa E. Bloom earned a B.A. from Trinity College (Connecticut) in art history, a MFA in the History of Photography from the Rochester Institute of Technology and from Visual Studies Workshop and a Ph.D. from the History of Consciousness Program, University of California, Santa Cruz where she did her thesis under the direction of James Clifford, Donna Haraway, and Hayden White. She also has received an Andrew W. Mellon Foundation Postdoctoral Fellowship at Stanford University (1993-1995) and a Postdoctoral fellowship at the Pembroke Center for Teaching and Research on Women at Brown University.\n\nBloom has taught art history and cultural studies at the University of California, San Diego, Josai International University, the University of California, Irvine; San Francisco State University, San Francisco Art Institute and the University of California, Santa Cruz She is currently a visiting scholar at the UCLA Center for the Study of Women.\n\nBloom is the author of many books, including \"Gender on Ice: American Ideologies of Polar Expeditions\" (1993), which is the first critical book on the Arctic and Antarctic written from a feminist perspective. This book in polar studies and polar exploration literature was described by the Women's Review of Books as, \"...part of a long overdue effort to rewrite the old sexist and racist histories of exploration\". Publishers Weekly described it as “making a good case for her intriguing central thesis“.\n\nHer edited anthology titled \"With Other Eyes: Looking at Race and Gender in Visual Culture\" (1999), demonstrates how feminist, postcolonial and antiracist concerns can be successfully incorporated into the history of art, and includes essays by Irit Rogoff, Jennifer Gonzalez, Caren Kaplan, Inderpal Grewal, Griselda Pollock, Zoe Leonard, Francette Pacteau, amongst others. Her work on this topic continues in her articles on artists such as Isaac Julien, Eleanor Antin, Connie Samaras, Natalie Talec, and Katja Aglert and in essays on Chinese and Japanese feminist contemporary art in anthologies such as \"Feminism and Visual Culture\", edited by Amelia Jones and in the \"Visual Culture Reader\", edited by Nicholas Mirzoeff.\n\nShe is the also the author of Jewish Identities in \"U.S. Feminist Art: Ghosts of Ethnicity\" (2006) that explores the place of Jewishness in feminist art in the United States. It was described in Art History (journal) as addressing a topic that is under-theorized and difficult to talk about. Her ongoing work in this area includes \"Ghosts of Ethnicity: Jewish Identities in American Feminist Art\" (2007), and an article on Jewish women’s bodies titled, \"Barbies’s Jewish Roots: Jewish Women’s Bodies and Feminist Art\" (2008).\n\nBloom’s ongoing work on gender, climate change and the polar regions includes co-editing with Laura Kay and Elena Glasberg a special issue on polar art for the online journal, The Scholar and Feminist Online at Barnard College (2008), a 2012 article on climate change, art, and the polar regions co-written with Elena Glasberg titled \"Disappearing Ice and Missing Data: Visual Culture of the Polar Regions and Global Warming\", and a 2015 article on oil and the polar regions titled \"Witnessing Climate Change: Oil, Geopolitics and Landscapes of Invisibility\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2901824", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2901824", "title": "List of classical music with an unruly audience response", "text": "List of classical music with an unruly audience response\n\nThere have been many notable instances of unruly behaviour at classical music concerts, often at the premiere of a new work or production:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5074505", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5074505", "title": "Luzaga's Bronze", "text": "Luzaga's Bronze\n\nThe Bronze of Luzaga is a plate of 16 x 15 centimeters which has, in 8 lines, 123 celtiberian characters engraved in the metal with a bradawl or similar, and which has 7 holes, perhaps in order to be held. Since its discovery in the late nineteenth century, it has been lost.\n\naregoratikubos : karuo : genei\n\ngortika : lutiakei : aukis : barazioka\n\nerna : uela : tigerzetaz : so\n\nueizui : belaiokumkue\n\ngenis : garikokue : genis\n\nsdam : gortikam : elazunom\n\nkaruo : tegez : sa : gortika\n\nteiuoreikis\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43853813", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43853813", "title": "Macaroni art", "text": "Macaroni art\n\nMacaroni art, sometimes referred to as macaroni crafts or pasta art, is artwork that is made of dry macaroni or other pasta. The works commonly consist of individual pieces of macaroni glued to a surface to produce a mosaic. However, works may take the form of sculptures.\n\nThis type of art is produced during arts and crafts classes at pre-school. Today, it has evolved to become an artform practiced by adults.\n\nPasta art was used to advertise a Nancy Sinatra concert at the world famous Fillmore Auditorium in San Francisco. The art the poster was made from is composed entirely of \"Pasta e Fagioli\" (pasta and beans). Alphabet pasta spells out the lyrics for her hit \"These Boots Are Made For Walking\". \n\nAnother example of pasta art was featured in an episode of the television sitcom \"Seinfeld\". Cosmo Kramer produced a small sculpture made of fusilli called \"Fusili Jerry\".\n"}
{"id": "55873393", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55873393", "title": "Maharadia Lawana", "text": "Maharadia Lawana\n\nThe Maharadia Lawana (sometimes spelled Maharadya Lawana or Maharaja Rāvaṇa) is a Maranao epic which tells a local version of the Indian epic Ramayana. Its English translation is attributed to Filipino Indologist Juan R. Francisco, assisted by Maranao scholar Nagasura Madale, based on Francisco's ethnographic research in the Lake Lanao area in the late 1960s.\n\nIt narrates the adventures of the monkey-king, Maharadia Lawana, whom the Gods have gifted with immortality.\n\nFrancisco first heard the poem being sung by Maranao bards around Lake Lanao in 1968. He then sought the help of Maranao scholar Nagasura Madale, resulting in a rhyming English translation of the epic.\n\nFrancisco believed that the Ramayana narrative arrived in the Philippines some time between the 17th to 19th centuries, via interactions with Javanese and Malaysian cultures which traded extensively with India.\n\nBy the time it was documented in the 1960s, the character names, place names, and the precise episodes and events in Maharadia Lawana's narrative already had some notable differences from those of the Ramayana. Francisco believed that this was a sign of \"indigenization\", and suggested that some changes had already been introduced in Malaysia and Java even before the story was heard by the Maranao, and that upon reaching the Maranao homeland, the story was \"further indigenized to suit Philippine cultural perspectives and orientations.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "51875233", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51875233", "title": "Markiyan Kamysh", "text": "Markiyan Kamysh\n\nMarkiyan Kamysh (, born 19 October 1988) is a Ukrainian novelist, who represents Chernobyl.\n\nMarkiyan Kamysh is the only person representing the Chernobyl underground in literature. For seven years he has been illegally, like a stalker, investigating and writing about the Chernobyl Exclusion Zone. He made more than 100 expeditions behind the barbed wire and lived in the Zone for more than a year, and has walked more than 10,000 km within the Zone.\n\nKamysh's debut novel “A Stroll to the Zone” about illegal Chernobyl tourists (stalkers) has been called the most sensational debut of Ukrainian literature. Six months after its publication in Ukraine and after a lot of positive reviews, it has been translated into French and published by Arthaud (Groupe Flammarion).\n\nIn France, the novel has been released under the title “La Zone” and been welcomed with great warmth by French critics. Cult French magazine Le Nouvel Observateur has called it \"“Stunning book”\". Monaco Hebdo magazine has included it in the list of choices of the month. The Italian publishing house Keller Editore has bought rights to this text and signed an agreement on translation and publication of “La Zone” in Italy.\n\nThe Ukrainian novelist Andrey Kurkov said about this text: \"\"The book \"A Stroll to the Zone\" (La Zone) by Markian Kamysh is definitely double discovery for any reader! The first discovery is the author himself with his vivid and very dynamic narrative, and the other one - the content of the book that will open for you completely unknown reality - life in Chernobyl zone behind the barbed wire, life described by those who made this zone their secret and illegal playground. Markian Kamysh is one of them and that's why the book is also an honest first hand experience!\".\"\n\nThe Ukrainian film director Myroslav Slaboshpytskyi (The Tribe) said about \"A Stroll to the Zone\": \"“A new breath and new voice in Ukrainian literature”\".\n\n"}
{"id": "42457665", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42457665", "title": "Matthew Christopher", "text": "Matthew Christopher\n\nMatthew Christopher Sobaski is an American fashion designer mostly known for bridal wear. He is the owner and the CEO of a couture fashion house in New York City.\n\nChristopher was born on March 16, 1976, in Packwood, Iowa to Kenneth Sobaski, a hog farmer and Sandy Sobaski, a registered nurse. Christopher learned to sew participating in 4-H. He attended the Art Institute of Chicago for one year before completing his studies at Iowa State University. He moved to New York City in 2000 to pursue a career in the field of couture designing. This is where he met his future partner, contemporary artist, David J. Marchi. The two were joined in 2012.\n\nChristopher's designs for gowns are featured in movies including \"The Wedding Ringer\" with Kaley Cuoco. Christopher's list of clientele includes Kristin Chenoweth, Carli Lloyd, Julie Lake, and Debra Messing. Several of Christopher's couture gowns and wedding dresses were covered in the January 2016 edition of \"Vanity Fair\" in a featured article. He makes a cameo in the documentary \"He Lied About Everything\" as the custome designer of Benita Alexander's dress. His gowns have also appeared in the Broadway adaptation of \"Honeymoon in Vegas\" and on the TV show \"Say Yes to the Dress\".\n"}
{"id": "21142764", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21142764", "title": "Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism", "text": "Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism\n\nThe Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism is the government ministry of Tanzania that is responsible for the management of natural resources and cultural resources and for the development of the tourism industry. It has a wide range of investments in various tourist resources and tourism industry projects. Ministry offices are located in Dodoma.\n\nThe Ministry's motto is \"Land of Kilimanjaro & Zanzibar\".\n\nThe work of the Ministry is organized into four basic workgroups:\n\nIn addition, there are various support and administration divisions within the ministry.\n\n"}
{"id": "43652141", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43652141", "title": "Movie Star News", "text": "Movie Star News\n\nMovie Star News was a NYC landmark and is a collection of vintage pin-up, bondage, and Hollywood publicity photos amassed over the course of 73 years by Irving Klaw, his sister Paula Klaw and nephew Ira Kramer– nearly 3 million images and 250,000 negatives, including 1,500 prints of Bettie Page, known as the queen of pin-ups.\n\nThe bulk of the film collection covers the years 1938 to 1979 with many photos dating back to 1915; 11,500 movies and 5,000 actors are represented.\n\nThe family business, which eventually became Movie Star News, began in 1938 when he and his sister Paula opened a struggling used bookstore at 209 East 14th Street in Manhattan.\n\nAfter he observed teenagers frequently tearing out photos from his movie magazines, he saw an opportunity and started selling movie star stills and lobby photo cards. He set up a small box of used movie stills. When these quickly sold, he contacted the studios for more stills. Irving approached the studios directly back when most Hollywood studio publicity departments lined Manhattan's 11th Ave and discovered they were in the habit of throwing away their publicity materials after a film had had its run. Irving bought as much as he wanted for almost nothing, convincing publicity departments he was doing them a favor. Irving would take these originals and negatives meant for magazine and newspaper art departments and reproduce 8×10 glossies of them directly for the purchasing public. The customers could order by item number from catalogs of sample photos. These sold so well that he stopped selling books and moved the store from the basement to the street-level storefront and renamed it Irving Klaw Pin Ups. Business thrived, and the self-named \"Pin-Up King\" moved to 212 East 14th Street and took on the name \"Movie Star News\".\n\nIn later years the studios, having thrown away their publicity archives would often have to rent their own photos back from Irving. Around the time that Klaw started his bookstore, he also began a mail-order magic trick business, the Nutrix Novelty Library. Like book sales, magic novelties were a financial bust. However, Klaw soon realized that mail order could enhance his movie-still business. He placed advertisements in magazines and shipped catalogs. Before long, mail order was the mainstay of Movie Star News. During World War Two, Movie Star News sold pin-ups of movie stars to the troops with a mailing list of 100,000 names.\n\nBy the late 1940s, he was receiving frequent requests for \"Damsel-in-distress\" photos of actresses being bound and gagged, spanked, and flogged. Sometime between 1947 and 1950, Irving Klaw was approached by a prominent lawyer with some \"special needs.\" He offered to pay all the costs if Klaw would produce original bondage pictures for him. Klaw would retain the rights. His first bondage model was Lili Dawn. She was photographed in midtown studios by various freelance photographers. Eventually, Klaw rented the third floor over Movie Star News and turned it into a shooting studio. By 1955, Irving Klaw was allegedly grossing $1.5 million a year, primarily through mail order of his fetish pics.\n\nWhile he worked with many different models, Klaw's images with Bettie Page were his most popular and best known. He met Page when he contacted camera clubs looking for models for his burgeoning fetish photography business. Page was the most popular pin-up of the 1950s, appearing on more covers than anyone else in the decade. While she was Playboy's Playmate of the Month for January 1955, Page is best remembered for Klaw's bondage photos and the nudes by Bunny Yeager.\n\nKlaw always went to great pains to make sure his photographs contained no nudity, which would make the material pornographic and hence illegal to sell via mail. Models were often required to wear two pairs of panties so that no pubic hair could be seen.\nHe and Paula, who actually posed and took most of the photos, started selling bondage and fetish photos using burlesque dancers like Baby Lake, Tempest Storm, and Blaze Starr as models. Klaw always went to great pains to make sure his photographs contained no sex acts or nudity, which would have made the material pornographic and hence illegal to sell via mail.\n\nThrough his production company Nutrix Co. (and later also Mutrix Corp), Klaw also published and distributed illustrated adventure/bondage serials by fetish artists Eric Stanton, Gene Bilbrew, Adolfo Ruiz and others.\n\nIrving Klaw had an unusually close relationship with his sister Paula. The story of Irving and his business has primarily been told through her anecdotes. Paula often ran the front end of the store, but when Klaw began to produce his own photographs and films, Paula befriended the models, often treating them as her own daughters. When another photographer wasn't available, she would grab the camera and shoot the photos. In 1963, in an attempt to satisfy the courts, Irving destroyed his photographs and movies, Paula, unbeknownst to her brother, preserved his legacy – and her financial future – by hiding thousands of the images. After her brother's death, she became fiercely protective of his reputation and his work. Without Paula's foresight, Irving Klaw might have been just an odd, barely remembered footnote in the annals of pin-up history and Fifties puritanism.\n\nIn the early 1980s Movie Star News moved to 134 W. 18th Street to avoid rising rents on 14th street.\nIn 2012 Movie Star News moved to Las Vegas Nevada and continues to sell originals and reproductions from the collection.\n\n"}
{"id": "20358", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20358", "title": "Music lesson", "text": "Music lesson\n\nMusic lessons are a type of formal instruction in playing a musical instrument or singing. Typically, a student taking music lessons meets a music teacher for one-on-one training sessions ranging from 30 minutes to one hour in length over a period of weeks or years. For vocal lessons, teachers show students how to sit or stand and breathe, and how to position the head, chest, and mouth for good vocal tone. For instrument lessons, teachers show students how to sit or stand with the instrument, how to hold the instrument, and how to manipulate the fingers and other body parts to produce tones and sounds from the instrument. Music teachers also assign technical exercises, musical pieces, and other activities to help the students improve their musical skills. While most music lessons are one-on-one (private), some teachers also teach groups of two to four students (semi-private lessons), and, for very basic instruction, some instruments are taught in large group lessons, such as piano and acoustic guitar. Since the widespread availability of high speed. low latency Internet, private lessons can also take place through live video chat using webcams, microphones and videotelephony online.\n\nMusic lessons are part of both amateur music instruction and professional training. In amateur and recreational music contexts, children and adults take music lessons to improve their singing or instrumental playing skills and learn basic to intermediate techniques. In professional training contexts, such as music conservatories, university music performance programs (e.g., Bachelor of music, Master of music, DMA, etc.), students aiming for a career as professional musicians take a music lesson once a week for an hour or more with a music professor over a period of years to learn advanced playing or singing techniques. Many instrumental performers and singers, including a number of pop music celebrities, have learned music \"by ear\", especially in folk music styles such as blues and popular styles such as rock music. Nevertheless, even in folk and popular styles, a number of performers have had some type of music lessons, such as meeting with a vocal coach or getting childhood instruction in an instrument such as piano.\n\nFor vocal lessons, teachers show students how to sit or stand and breathe, and how to position the head and mouth for good vocal tone. For instrument lessons, teachers show students how to sit or stand with the instrument, how to hold the instrument, and how to manipulate the fingers and other body parts to produce tones and sounds from the instrument. For wind and brass instruments, the teacher shows the student how to use their lips, tongue, and breath to produce tones and sounds. For some instruments, teachers also train students in the use of the feet, as in the case of piano or other keyboard instruments that have damper or sustain pedals on the piano, the pedal keyboard on a pipe organ, and some drums and cymbals in the drum kit such as the bass drum pedal and the hi-hat cymbal pedal. In addition to teaching fingering, teachers also provide other types of instruction. A guitar player learns how to strum and pluck strings; players of wind instruments learn about breath control and embouchure, and singers learn how to make the most of their vocal cords without hurting the throat or vocal cords.\n\nTeachers also show students how to achieve the correct posture for most efficient playing results. For all instruments, the best way to move the fingers and arms to achieve a desired effect is to learn to play with the least tension in your hands and body. This also prevents forming habits that can injure the skeletal frame and muscles. For example, when playing the piano, \"fingering\"—which fingers to put on which keys—is a skill slowly learned as the student advances, and there are many standard techniques a teacher can pass on.\n\nThere are many myths and misconceptions among music teachers, especially in the Western classical tradition, about \"good\" posture and \"bad\" posture. Students who find that playing their instruments causes them physical pain should bring this to their teachers' attention. It could be a potentially serious health risk, but it is often overlooked when learning to play an instrument. Learning to use one's body in a manner consistent with the way their anatomy is designed to work can mean the difference between a crippling injury and a lifetime of enjoyment. Many music teachers would caution students about taking \"no pain, no gain\" as an acceptable response from their music teacher regarding a complaint of physical pain. Concerns about use-related injury and the ergonomics of musicianship have gained more mainstream acceptance in recent years. Musicians have increasingly been turning to medical professionals, physical therapists, and specialized techniques seeking relief from pain and prevention of serious injury. There exists a plurality of special techniques for an even greater plurality of potential difficulties. The Alexander Technique is just one example of these specialized approaches.\n\nTo fully understand music being played, the student must learn the basics of the underlying music theory. Along with musical notation, students learn rhythmic techniques—like controlling tempo, recognizing time signatures, and the theory of harmony, including chords and key signatures. In addition to basic theory, a good teacher stresses \"musicality\", or how to make the music sound good. This includes how to create good, pleasing tone, how to do musical phrasing, and how to use dynamics (loudness and softness) to make the piece or song more expressive.\n\nMost music lessons include some instruction in the history of the type of music that the student is learning. When a student is taking Western classical music lessons, music teachers often spend some time explaining the different eras of western classical music, such as the Baroque Era, the Classical era, the Romantic Era, and the contemporary classical music era, because each era is associated with different styles of music and different performance practice techniques. Instrumental music from the Baroque era is often played in the 2000s as teaching pieces for piano students, string instrument players, and wind instrument players. If students just try to play these Baroque pieces by reading the notes from the score, they might not get the right type of interpretation. However, once a student learns that most Baroque instrumental music was associated with dances, such as the gavotte and the sarabande, and keyboard music from the Baroque era was played on the harpsichord or the pipe organ, a modern-day student is better able to understand how the piece should be played. If, for example, a cello player is assigned a gavotte that was originally written for harpsichord, this gives the student insight in how to play the piece. Since it is a dance, it should have a regular, clear pulse, rather than a Romantic era-style shifting tempo rubato. As well, since it was originally written for the harpsichord, a light-sounding keyboard instrument in which the strings are plucked with quills, this suggests that the notes should be played relatively lightly, and with spaces between each note, rather than in a full-bodied, sustained legato.\n\nAlthough not universally accepted, many teachers drill students with the repetitive playing of certain patterns, such as scales, arpeggios, and rhythms. Scales are often taught because they are the building blocks of melody in most Western art music. In addition, there are flexibility studies, which make it physically easier to play the instrument. \nPercussion instruments use rudiments that help in the development of sticking patterns, roll techniques and other little nuances such as flams and drags.\n\nThere are sets of exercises for piano designed to stretch the connection between fourth and fifth fingers, making them more independent. Brass players practice \"lip slurs\", which are unarticulated changes in embouchure between partials. Woodwind players (Saxophone, Clarinet, and Flute) have a multitude of exercises to help with tonguing techniques, finger dexterity, and tone development. Entire books of etudes have been written to this purpose.\n\nTeachers typically assign the student pieces (or songs for vocal students) of slowly increasing difficulty. Besides using pieces to teach various musical rudiments (rhythm, harmony, pitch, etc.) and teach the elements of good playing (or singing) style, a good teacher also inspires more intangible qualities—such as expressiveness and musicianship. Pieces (or songs) are more enjoyable for most students than theory or scale exercises, and an emphasis on learning new pieces is usually required to maintain students' motivation. However, the teacher must not over-accommodate a student's desire for \"fun\" pieces. Often the student's idea of fun music is popular vocal selections, movie soundtracks, and TV show theme songs, etc. While some of these \"fun\" pieces can be performed, pieces should also be selected for pedagogical reasons, such as challenging the student and honing their skills. Student should learn something from every piece they play. In addition, for students to be well rounded they must play many types of pieces by composers and songwriters from different eras, ranging from Renaissance music to pieces from the 20th and 21st century. A varied repertoire increases the student's musical understanding and skill.\n\nA popular measure of progress, especially for children, is external assessment of the progress of the pupil by a regular examination. A number of exam boards assess pupils on music theory or practice. These are available for almost every musical instrument. A common method to mark progress is graded examinations—for example from grade 1 (beginner) to grade 8 (ready to enter higher study at music school). Some teachers prefer other methods of target-setting for their pupils. The most common is the pupil's concert, which gives experience in playing in public and under a certain degree of pressure, without outright criticism or a more or less arbitrary marking system. Another is the graded system of books followed by teachers of the Suzuki method, in which the completion of each book is celebrated, without a system of marking or ranking of pupils.\n\nSome studies suggests that music lessons provide children with important developmental benefits beyond simply the knowledge or skill of playing a musical instrument. Research suggests that musical lessons may enhance intelligence and academic achievement, build self-esteem and improve discipline. A recent Rockefeller Foundation Study found that music majors have the highest rate of admittance to medical schools, followed by biochemistry and the humanities. On SAT tests, the national average scores were 427 on the verbal and 476 on math. At the same time, music students averaged 465 on the verbal and 497 on the math - 38 and 21 points higher, respectively. However, the observed correlation between musical and mathematical ability may be inherent rather than acquired. Furthermore, it is possible that the correlation between taking music lessons and academic ability exists because both are strongly correlated with parental income and education. Even if music lessons had no impact on academic ability, one would expect to see a correlation between music lessons and academic ability.\n\nSkills learned through the discipline of music may transfer to study skills, communication skills, and cognitive skills useful in every part of a child's studies at school, though. An in-depth Harvard University study found evidence that spatial-temporal reasoning improves when children learn to make music, and this kind of reasoning improves temporarily when adults listen to certain kinds of music, including Mozart. This finding (named \"The Mozart effect\") suggests that music and spatial reasoning are related psychologically (i.e., they may rely on some of the same underlying skills) and perhaps neurologically as well. However, there has been considerable controversy over this as later researchers have failed to reproduce the original findings of Rauscher (e.g. Steele, Bass & Crook, 1999), questioned both theory and methodology of the original study (Fudis & Lembesis 2004) and suggested that the enhancing effects of music in experiments have been simply due to an increased level of arousal (Thompson, Schellenberg & Husain, 2001).\n\nA relationship between music and the strengthening of math, dance, reading, creative thinking and visual arts skills has also been reported in literature. (Winner, Hetland, Sanni, as reported in \"The Arts and Academic Achievement - What the Evidence Shows\", 2000) However recent findings by Dr. Levitin of McGill University in Montreal, Canada, undermines the suggested connection between musical ability and higher math skills. In a study conducted on patients with Williams syndrome (a genetic disorder causing low intelligence), he found that even though their intelligence was that of young children, they still possessed an unusually high level of musical ability.\n\n"}
{"id": "55401040", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55401040", "title": "Parque de las Leyendas", "text": "Parque de las Leyendas\n\nParque de las Leyendas is an zoo in the San Miguel district of Lima, Peru. The zoo contain 215 species of mammals, reptiles and birds, with a total of 2071 animals.\n"}
{"id": "1332481", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1332481", "title": "Persian units of measurement", "text": "Persian units of measurement\n\nAn official system of weights and measures was established in the ancient \nPersian Empire under the Achaemenid dynasty (550-350 BCE). The shekel and mina (\"profane\" or \"sacred\") were units of both weight and volume. A shekel or mina weight was equal to the weight of that volume of water. The talent was a measure of weight used for large amounts of coinage. Some related units were used in Persia in the 19th century, and are still used in contemporary Iran.\n\nThe \"shekel\" and \"mina\" (\"profane\" or \"sacred\") were units of both weight and volume. A \"shekel\" or \"mina\" weight was equal to the weight of that volume of water. Note that the values given for the \"mina\" do not match the definitions.\n\nThe talent was a measure of weight used for large amounts of coinage (bullion, bulk coin), rather than an individual coin. Seven Babylonian talents equalled ten Attic talents, according to a list of the revenues of Cyrus the Great (Cyrus II of Persia) recorded in Herodotus.\n\n𐎣𐎼𐏁 (karša) or 𐎣𐎼𐏁𐎹𐎠 (karšayā) is a unit of weight equal to 10 Babylonian \"shekels\" or 1/6 Babylonian \"mina\" weighing approximately 83g.\n\nSome related units were used in Persia in the 19th century, and are still used in contemporary Iran.\n"}
{"id": "11175159", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11175159", "title": "Pet Force", "text": "Pet Force\n\nPet Force is a series of books for young readers. It is a spin-off of \"Garfield\", in which the main animal characters of the comic series are portrayed as comic book superheroes. The action takes place on planet Polyester.\n\n20th Century Fox has released a computer-animated direct-to-video film \"Garfield's Pet Force\".\n\nIn another universe, one which exists parallel to Garfield's own, a team of five superheroes known as \"Pet Force\" serve Emperor Jon as protectors of his throne. Ruling the galaxy from the planet Polyester, Jon's reign is constantly opposed by the evil Vetvix. When Vetvix uses a new weapon and strips Pet Force of their powers, and sends them to a ghostly dimension where they will be trapped forever, Jon is forced to have his right-hand man, Sorcerer Binky, use a dimensional portal to find five alternate versions of the heroes to take their place. In Garfield's universe, \"Pet Force\" is a best-selling comic book, and when Nermal buys the limited-edition 100th issue, it becomes a portal through which they are pulled into the alternate universe, becoming the new Pet Force. Although they return to their own universe after the initial adventure, they subsequently return to fight Vetvix and other evils when needed.\n\n\nThe characters in Pet Force include characters from the original Garfield universe, as well as some entirely new characters.\n\nGarzooka is the superhero version of Garfield and the leader of Pet Force. Garzooka's abilities are gamma-radiated hairballs, superhuman strength, and razor-sharp claws in his right hand that can rend solid steel. While the original Garzooka was heroic and a born leader, the Garzooka created from Garfield is lazy and gluttonous, though he still focuses on the task at hand.\n\nOdious is the superhero version of Odie and the dumbest of the Pet Force. Odious, like his normal comic counterpart Odie, does not talk. He drools, licks, and barks, which is how he acts in the original Garfield comics. Odious' abilities are a \"super-stretchy stun tongue\" that causes a total mental meltdown in anyone he uses it against, super-slippery saliva, and superhuman strength.\n\nAbnermal is the superhero version of Nermal. Unlike the rest of the team, Abnermal quickly takes to his superpowers and is overjoyed to be a hero. Abnermal's abilities include his Pester Power, the ability to create force fields, and a body temperature of absolute zero that allows him to freeze anything he touches and project ice blasts. In the movie, he is given super speed.\n\nStarlena is the superhero version of Arlene. Starlena's abilities are a siren song that puts anyone who hears it into a deep trance, to which only Garzooka, Odious and the Lethal Lizard member Snake are immune, and the ability to fly. In the movie, she is granted the power to freeze enemies with her eyes.\n\nCompooky, half teddy bear, half robot, is a superhero version of Garfield's teddy bear, Pooky. Despite being an inanimate teddy bear in Garfield's universe, in the alternate universe Compooky can speak and is furthermore highly intelligent. Having no real combat abilities, he normally stays on board their ship while the others deal with the crisis. He does not exist in the movie version of Pet Force.\n\nA beautiful and powerful sorceress, Vetvix is the main villain of the Pet Force, an evil veterinarian. The source of her evil is a power crystal on her headband. Vetvix's main source of minions is an animal-splicing machine that allows her to mix and match parts from other animals and create new creatures that are entirely under her control. She is also highly skilled with magic and genetics. She is the opposite of Dr. Liz. Emperor Jon might have strong feelings for her.\n\nK-Niner is a Doberman with enhanced intelligence and superhuman strength, as well as a British accent and demeanor. Vetvix created a brain-booster that he then used to increase the intelligence of various other dogs, and gave those dogs mind-controlling collars to place on their owners and make them think they were dogs. Eventually, he was defeated by Pet Force and transformed back into a regular Doberman.\n\nA large rat with a monstrous appetite, he is Vetvix's main minion until he rebels against her and is defeated. He steals food from any planet he visits and wears a fake pegleg and an eyepatch, despite having both eyes; he just likes the look. When he is successfully manipulated by Vetvix into repairing her power crystal for her, she punishes him for his betrayal by teleporting him into the core of an asteroid.\n\nA monster created by Vetvix from the pieces of Pet Force minus Garzooka, the Mutanator possessed all the powers of the original four members, including Compooky's super-computer intelligence, Starlena's siren song, Odious' super-strength, and Abnermal's force fields and ice powers. Because of Garzooka's reluctance to injure his friends, the Mutanator was able to defeat him, but was later split apart and restored to the original members of Pet Force.\n\nA trio of reptiles from the swamp planet of Reptilius, mutated by energy emitted from Vetvix's laboratory during her experiments with the Mutanator and K-Niner. They acquire superpowers and humanoid forms and, after learning of Vetvix's plans and Emperor Jon, decide to take over the universe themselves. The trio do not get along very well, often insulting each other with dry wit and sarcasm, and their arguments sometimes even escalate to physical violence. In the end, Pet Force defeats them, and they are carted off to prison. Their members consist of:\n\n1. \n"}
{"id": "17149192", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17149192", "title": "Philosophy of design", "text": "Philosophy of design\n\nPhilosophy of design is the study of assumptions, foundations, and implications of design. The field is defined by an interest in a set of problems, or an interest in central or foundational concerns in design. In addition to these central problems for design as a whole, many philosophers of design consider these problems as they apply to particular disciplines (e.g. philosophy of art). Although most practitioners are philosophers, several prominent designers and artists have contributed to the field. For an introduction to the philosophy of design see the article by Per Galle at the Royal Danish Academy.\n\n"}
{"id": "23085824", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23085824", "title": "Puck in popular culture", "text": "Puck in popular culture\n\nIn English folklore, Puck is a mythological fairy or mischievous nature sprite. Puck is also a generalized personification of land spirits. In more recent times, the figure of Robin Goodfellow is identified as a puck. The Old English \"puca\" is a kind of half-tamed woodland sprite, leading folk astray with echoes and lights in nighttime woodlands (like the German and Dutch \"Weisse Frauen\" and \"Witte Wieven\" and the French \"Dames Blanches,\" all \"White Ladies\"), or coming into the farmstead and souring milk in the churn. Puck has appeared many times in popular culture.\n\nPuck's most famous appearance is in William Shakespeare's \"A Midsummer Night's Dream\".\n\nAs Robin Goodfellow, Puck appears in a roughly contemporaneous Elizabethan play, \"Grim the Collier of Croydon\" (1600). It is unknown how Shakespeare's Puck appeared on the stage; but the figure in \"Grim\" was costumed \"in a suit of leather close to his body; his face and hands coloured russet-coloured, with a flail.\"\n\nPuck is the story-framer in \"Puck of Pook's Hill\" (1906) and \"Rewards and Fairies\" (1910) short story cycles by Rudyard Kipling.\n\nIn Susanna Clarke's short story \"The Ladies of Grace Adieu,\" Robin Goodfellow appears as a mischievous yet caring servant to Auberon.\n\nIn Orson Scott Card's novel \"Magic Street\", and in his short film, \"Remind me Again\", we meet Puck, Queen Titania, and Oberon in a modern, urban setting. In Raymond E. Feist's novel \"Faerie Tale\", Puck is a fey being in the faerie court and is portrayed as a jester of sorts, and stays true to the mythology of him as a trickster. At times throughout the novel he is referred to as Puck, Putz, and Aerial, and assists the main characters to prevent evil King Oberon from seizing global power over humanity. In Pamela Dean's \"Tam Lin\" (a modern retelling of the Scottish faerie ballad), the character of Robin Armin is implied to be Puck; he used a similar name while performing as a singer and actor for The King's Men, and had been the inspiration for the Shakespearean Puck and several other comic characters, but he and the others of his troupe were unsuccessful in luring the Bard off to the Fair Lands.\n\nIn Mercedes Lackey's novel \"The Wizard of London\" Robin Goodfellow/Puck steps in to play himself in a boarding school's production of \"A Midsummer Night's Dream\" when no one suitable can be found for the part. He reappears throughout the novel mainly in his friendlier aspect, but becomes extremely dangerous when crossed.\n\nThe Puck who appears in Neil Gaiman's \"The Sandman\" is a trickster and maker of mischief.\n\n\"Puck\" was an American and then British humour magazine, somewhat similar to \"Punch\".\n\nIn the animated series \"Gargoyles\", Puck is a traditional trickster and an important supporting character. During the long exile from Avalon, Puck comes across Queen Titania in the human guise of Anastasia Renard, the wife of David Xanatos' aged and ailing business rival Halcyon Renard. He also meets a nearly emotionless businessman named Preston Vogel, working in Halcyon's employ. Amused with the \"wooden behavior\" of the mortal, Puck decides to play the straight man for a while, and reinvents himself as Owen Burnett, who becomes Xanatos' business manager.\n\nIn the 1989 movie \"Dead Poets Society\", one of the main characters, Neil Perry, plays the part of Puck in a secondary school rendition of \"A Midsummer Night's Dream\".\n\nIn \"Michael Buckley\"'s \"The Sisters Grimm\" series, Puck is an Everafter who takes on the form of an 11-year-old boy. He is described as rude, selfish, and immature, and occasionally plays pranks on the Grimm Family. He helps them solve most of their cases, and lives with them in their house.\n\nPuck plays a central role in Mark Chadbourn's fantasy trilogy, Kingdom of the Serpent, comprising the novels \"Jack of Ravens\", \"The Burning Man\", and \"Destroyer of Worlds\". Puck manipulates the heroes in an epic battle between good and evil over two thousand years of human history.\n\nThe children's theater play \"Robin Goodfellow\" by Aurand Harris is a retelling of \"A Midsummer Night's Dream\" from Puck's point of view.\n\nIn Kentaro Miura's dark fantasy manga Berserk, Puck is one of the main character's earliest companions. He is a fairy-like elf of the Pisky race, and serves as comedy relief.\nPuck, the faerie dragon, is the name of a hero in the game mod \"Defense of the Ancients\" and its sequel \"Dota 2\".\n\nPuck is a small rat-boy in Final Fantasy 9 who messes around with other people.\n\nPuck is also one of the lead characters of Julie Kagawa's Iron Fey series. When the series begins, he hovers around as the lead character's bodyguard but as it progresses, he reveals himself to be one of the love interests of the heroine.\n\nIn the Nightside series by Simon R. Green Puck is the only imperfect elf. Born as son of queen Mab and a Camelot knight, Puck is the only hunchback fairy. He is mischievous and usually deceives the main character for a long time. Later in the series he ends the elf civil war between Oberon and Mab by deceiving and killing his own mother, when she wouldn't give up her revenge.\n\nThe Cal Leandros series by Rob Thurman predominantly features the character Robin Goodfellow, also known as Rob Fellows. The character has crossed over into the author's Trickster series.\n\nPuck also appears in several books of author Mercedes Lackey's Elemental Masters series. He appears in The Wizard of London, Unnatural Issue, and Home From the Sea.\n"}
{"id": "24424061", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24424061", "title": "Scaugdae", "text": "Scaugdae\n\nScaugdae was a tribe of Getae.\n\n"}
{"id": "1263161", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1263161", "title": "Serbian art", "text": "Serbian art\n\nSerbian art refers to the visual arts of the Serbs and their nation-state Serbia. The medieval heritage includes Byzantine art, preserved in architecture, frescos and icons of the many Serbian Orthodox monasteries. In the Early modern period, Serbian visual arts began to be influenced by Western art, culminating in the Habsburg Monarchy in the late 18th century. The beginning of modern Serbian art is placed in the 19th century.\n\nCurrently, Europe's oldest known civilization was discovered in Serbia, namely Lepinski Vir and Vinča culture. In Serbia, Archaeological Sites of Exceptional Importance (Serbia) (Serbian: Археолошка налазишта/Arheološka nalazišta) are many and have the highest level of state protection under the Law on Cultural Heritage. See: Prehistoric sites in Serbia and Prehistory of Southeastern Europe for artifacts and sculpture found at the archeological sites of Lepinski Vir. Here are some images of Serbian prehistory art.\n\nGeographically Serbia was always part of the Roman Empire whether it was ruled from Rome or from Byzantium. The Roman ruins are found throughout the Balkan Peninsula.\n\nChurch architecture developed under the patronage of the medieval Serbian state. The most distinctive piece of medieval Serbian architecture was the Studenica monastery founded by Stefan Nemanja, the founder of medieval Serbia ca. 1190. This monastery also featured significant works of art including its Byzantine style fresco paintings. Its church also features extensive sculptures based on Psalms and the Dormition of the Theotokos. UNESCO added this monastery to its list of World Cultural Heritage sites in 1986. It was the model for other monasteries at Mileševa, Sopoćani and the Visoki Dečani. The influence of Byzantine art became more influential after the capture of Constantinople in 1204 in the Fourth Crusade when many Greek artists fled to Serbia. Their influence can be seen at the Church of the Ascension at Mileševa as well as in the wall paintings at the Church of the Holy Apostles at Peć and at the Sopoćani Monastery. Icons also formed a significant part of church art. The influence of Byzantine architecture reached its peak after 1300 including the rebuilding of the Our Lady of Ljeviš (ca. 1306–1307) and St. George at Staro Nagoričane as well as the Gračanica monastery. Church decorative paintings and religious arts and crafts also developed further in the period. The most noteworthy painters at the time were Michael Astrapas and Eutychios (fl. 1294-1317) and before them, Deacon Jovan and Rufin.\n\nIcon of the Holy Virgin Pelagonitissa, dating from 1421, is considered one of the last outstanding achievements of icon painting, a representation of the then still-living Byzantine iconography. Its author Makarije Zograf worked on the icon in the Church of Transfiguration in the monastery of the village Zrze, near Prilep, and many other Serbian monasteries during the fifteenth century. Makarije Zograf and his brother Metropolitan Jovan Zograf cared for the monastery endowment until it was transferred to Constantine, the village head (\"kmet\").\n\nThe Visoki Dečani monastery in Metohija was built between 1330 and 1350. Unlike other Serbian monasteries of the period, it was built with Romanesque features by master-builders under the monk Vitus of Kotor. Its frescoes feature 1000 portraits portraying all of the major themes of the New Testament. The cathedral features iconostasis, hegumen's throne and carved royal sarcophagus. In 2004, UNESCO listed the Dečani Monastery on the World Heritage List.\n\nThere was a further spate of church building as the Serbian state contracted to the Morava basin in the late 14th century. Prince Stefan Lazarević was a poet and patron of the arts who founded the church at Resava at Morava with the wall paintings having a theme of parables of Christ with the people portrayed wearing feudal Serbian costumes.\n\nManuscripts were another significant feature of Serbian medieval art. \"Miroslav's Gospel\" features lavish calligraphy and miniatures and is a significant artwork as well as a notable work of literature. The Chludov Psalter dating from the 14th century is beautifully decorated and was probably owned by a high-ranking noble. Serbian princes were well known in the 15th century for supporting manuscripts employing scribes and artists to create manuscripts besides icons and frescoes. Lovro Dobričević (1420-1478) of Kotor was a Venetian painter of Serbian origin, though Roman Catholic by confession, who first started to paint in the Serbian Orthodox Savina Monastery in Zeta and Serbian Despotate (now Montenegro) in the mid-15th century.\n\nLater in 19th century, Serbian medieval art was used as inspiration for notable architect Andrey Damyanov who, between 1835 and 1878, along the Vardar and Morava Valleys and Bosnia, built around 40 churches and other buildings. Adapting to the social demand of its Serbian sponsors, Damyanov combined simultaneously traditional elements of the 15th century Morava school with Occidental baroque elements found North of Sava river.\n\nThanks are due to field scientist and academic Gabriel Millet who was the first to bring Serbian art to the attention of the West in 1919.The other is Serbian-American scientist Michael Pupin, who gathered an international team of scholars and public figures to support the preservation of architectural heritage during and after the Great War. In 1918, Sir Thomas Graham Jackson, in Pupin's \"Serbian Orthodox Church\" on the medieval Serbian churches, refuted the notion that Serbian art was nothing more than a branch of Byzantine art and showed that Serbian art had an original character of its own.\n\nAnother performance artists include Gabrijel Savić Ra, Nela Antonović, Lidija Antonović, Predrag Radovančević, etc.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4398692", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4398692", "title": "Sinophile", "text": "Sinophile\n\nA Sinophile or a Chinophile is a person who demonstrates a strong interest and love for Chinese culture or its people. It is also commonly used to describe those knowledgeable of Chinese history and culture (such as scholars and students), non-native Chinese language speakers, pro-Chinese politicians, and people perceived as having a strong interest in any of the above.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18830689", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18830689", "title": "Straight edge", "text": "Straight edge\n\nStraight edge (sometimes abbreviated sXe or signified by XXX or X) is a subculture originated from hardcore punk whose adherents refrain from using alcohol, tobacco and other recreational drugs, in reaction to the excesses of punk subculture. For some, this extends to refraining from engaging in promiscuous sex, following a vegetarian or vegan diet or not using caffeine or prescription drugs. The term \"straight edge\" was adopted from the 1981 song \"Straight Edge\" by the hardcore punk band Minor Threat.\n\nStraight edge emerged amid the early-1980s hardcore punk scene. Since then, a wide variety of beliefs and ideas have been associated with some members of the movement, including vegetarianism and animal rights. While the commonly expressed aspects of the straight edge subculture have been abstinence from alcohol, nicotine, and illegal drugs, there have been considerable variations on how far to take the interpretations of \"abstaining from intoxicants\" or \"living drug-free\". Disagreements often arise as to the primary reasons for living straight edge. Though Straight Edge politics have varied significantly, from explicitly revolutionary to outright conservative, the latter that has mostly dominated, at least in public perception. Left leaning activists have often approached Straight Edge with skepticism, ridicule or even outright hostility in part due to what they perceived as the Straight Edge movement's self-righteous militancy. \n\nIn 1999, William Tsitsos wrote that straight edge had gone through three eras since its founding in the early 1980s. Bent edge began as a counter-movement to straight edge by members of the Washington, D.C. hardcore scene who were frustrated by the rigidity and intolerance in the scene. During the youth crew era, which started in the mid-1980s, the influence of music on the straight edge scene was at an all-time high. By the early 1990s, militant straight edge was a well-known part of the wider punk scene. In the early to mid-1990s, straight edge spread from the United States to Northern Europe, Eastern Europe, the Middle East, and South America. By the beginning of the 2000s, militant straight edge punks had largely left the broader straight edge culture and movement.\n\nIn the 1970s, the punk subculture was associated with the use of intoxicative inhalants, substances such as model airplane glue that were inhaled for the intoxicating effect. In 1999, William Tsitsos wrote that straight edge had gone through three eras since its founding in the early 1980s. Later analysts have identified another era that has taken place since Tsitsos's writing. Straight edge grew out of hardcore punk in the late 1970s and early 1980s, and was partly characterized by shouted rather than sung vocals. Straight edge individuals of this early era often associated with the original punk ideals such as individualism, disdain for work and school, and live-for-the-moment attitudes. The movement was influenced by the political and social climate of its origin, around the time of the \"Just Say No\" campaign and a rise in conservative viewpoints. The discipline of the subculture came from a mix of leftist radicalism and conservative influences.\n\nStraight edge sentiments can be found in songs by the early 1980s band Minor Threat. This anti-inebriation movement had been developing in punk prior to Minor Threat, but their song \"Straight Edge\" was influential in giving the scene a name, and something of a (somewhat unwilling) figurehead. Minor Threat frontman Ian MacKaye is often credited with birthing the Straight edge name and movement and in later years has often spoken out about how he never intended it to be a movement.\n\nStraight edge sentiments can also be found in the song \"Keep it Clean\" by English punk band The Vibrators, and the 1970s Modern Lovers song \"I'm Straight\" (which rejected drug use). As one of the few prominent 1970s hard rock icons to explicitly eschew alcohol and drug use, Ted Nugent was also a key influence on the straight edge ideology.\n\nStraight edge started on the East Coast of the United States in Washington D.C., and quickly spread throughout the United States and Canada. By the 1980s, bands on the West Coast, such as America's Hardcore, Stalag 13, Justice League, and Uniform Choice, were gaining popularity. In the early stages of this subculture's history, concerts often consisted of both punk bands and straight edge bands. Circumstances soon changed and the early 1980s would eventually be viewed as the time \"before the two scenes separated\". Early straight edge bands included Minor Threat, State of Alert, Government Issue, Teen Idles, The Faith, 7 Seconds, SSD, DYS, and Negative FX.\n\nBent edge began as a counter-movement to straight edge by members of the Washington, D.C. hardcore scene who were frustrated by the rigidity and intolerance in the scene. This idea spread, and on Minor Threat's first tour in 1982, people would come up to the band to identify themselves as bent, crooked, or curved edge. The counter-movement was short lived and faded away by the end of the 1990s.\n\nDuring the youth crew era, which started in the mid-1980s, the influence of music on the straight edge scene seemed to be at an all-time high. The new branches of straight edge that came about during this era seemed to originate from ideas presented in songs, and many youth crew bands had a strong heavy metal influence. Notable youth crew bands included: Youth of Today, Gorilla Biscuits, Judge, Bold, Chain of Strength, Turning Point, Uniform Choice, and Slapshot.\n\nIn the mid-1980s, the band Youth of Today became associated with the straight edge movement, and their song \"Youth Crew\" expressed a desire to unite the scene into a movement. Vegetarianism became an important theme in straight edge during this era, starting with Youth of Today's 1988 song \"No More\", which contained lyrics condemning the consumption of meat. This catalyzed a trend towards animal rights and veganism within the straight edge movement that would reach its peak in the 1990s.\n\nBy the early 1990s, straight edge became a well-known part of the wider punk and DIY scene and underwent musical and political shifts. In the early part of the decade, a number of straight edge punks and their bands picked up on the vegetarian and other social justice politics of the mid-1980s and began more comprehensively advocating for social justice, animal liberation, veganism, and straight edge, itself. During this period, the straight edge scene birthed two major offshoots: the more conservative hardline and the religiously influenced Krishna Consciousness. While the majority of straight edge punks and Hare Krishna converts were pacifists, those influenced by hardline showed a willingness to resort to violence in order to promote their subculture. Musically, the straight edge scene was increasingly drawing from heavy metal and was a founding influence on metalcore.\n\nIn the early to mid-1990s, straight edge spread from the United States to Northern Europe, Eastern Europe, the Middle East, and South America. It grew around the world due to the relentless touring of youth crew bands and the ease of ordering records from American record labels via mail. Fluff Fest, which has been held in the Czech Republic since 2000 and draws audiences from across Europe, is linked to straight edge through its organizers and showcases prominent straight edge bands.\n\nBy the beginning of the 2000s, only small groups of militant straight edge individuals remained. Contrary to news reports that portrayed straight edge as a gang, several studies have shown that straight edge individuals as a whole are mostly peaceful people. In the 2000s, there was a growing amount of tolerance of people who do not follow the straight edge lifestyle by straight edge individuals. In this incarnation of straight edge, the musical styles of the bands involved are more varied, ranging from a youth crew revival style to metalcore to posicore. Straight edge bands from the 2000s include Champion, Down to Nothing, Embrace Today, Have Heart, and Throwdown.\n\nIn the early stages of straight edge, the philosophy was to rebel through self-control. With the ability to control one’s actions would better suit them to stand up against the mainstream. The first wave of straight edge did not impose rules on others, rather participants chose to follow the ways of self-control. With the second wave of straight edge these rules were used to control others. In addition the second wave experienced a change in music style. Where the first wave was influenced by hardcore punk, the second brought in aspects of heavy metal which further pushed for power and control over others. The slowing down of the music reflected the focus of individuals in their journey to self control.\n\nWhile some straight edge groups are treated as a \"gang\" by law enforcement officials, a 2006 study found the vast majority of people who identify as straight edge are nonviolent. While the early Washington, D.C. hardcore punk scene is often praised for its commitment to positive social change, both the youth crew movement of the 1980s and the vegan movement of the 1990s have drawn criticism. Straight edge has often been approached with skepticism and hostility, despite the ideologically less dogmatic and more multifaceted character of contemporary straight edge.\n\nThe letter X is the most known symbol of straight edge, and is sometimes worn as a marking on the back of both hands, though it can be displayed on other body parts as well. Some followers of straight edge have also incorporated the symbol into clothing and pins. According to a series of interviews by journalist Michael Azerrad, the straight edge X can be traced to the Teen Idles' brief West Coast tour in 1980. The band's members were scheduled to play at San Francisco's Mabuhay Gardens, but when they arrived, club management discovered that they were all under the legal drinking age and would be denied entry to the club. As a compromise, management marked each of the members' hands with a large black X as a warning to the club's staff not to serve alcohol to the band.\n\nUpon returning to Washington, D.C., the band suggested this same system to local clubs as a means to allow teenagers in to see musical performances without being served alcohol. The Teen Idles released a record in 1980 called \"Minor Disturbance\" with the cover shot being two hands with black Xs on the back. The mark soon became associated with the straight edge lifestyle. It can also be used by drinking establishments to note a patron as under the drinking age, regardless of their views towards drugs and alcohol.\n\nLater bands used the X symbol on album covers and other paraphernalia in a variety of ways. The cover of \"No Apologies\" by Judge shows two crossed gavels in the X formation. Other objects that have been used include shovels, baseball bats, and hockey sticks. A variation involving a trio of Xs is often used in flyers and tattoos. It can also be ironic, based on the fact that three Xs was popularized in cartoons and television shows to signify alcohol or poison. Moonshiners used an X to note how many times a particular batch of moonshine ran through the still, adding additional irony. The term is sometimes abbreviated by including an X with the abbreviation of the term \"straight edge\" to give \"sXe\". By analogy, hardcore punk is sometimes abbreviated to \"hXc\".\n\nBy the late 1990s, many straight edge participants gave veganism the same degree of importance as abstinence from intoxicants, and some groups styled themselves \"vegan straight edge\", sometimes abbreviated \"xVx\". Bands such as Earth Crisis and Vegan Reich emphasized animal rights and environmentalism as social justice issues. Perhaps owing to the \"DIY\" ethic of the punk subculture, some advocated direct action, and became associated with the radical groups Animal Liberation Front and Earth Liberation Front. The California band Vegan Reich is most associated with the \"Hardline\" subculture, which espouses the sanctity of life, and draws connections between animal rights and anti-abortion activism. Members of the Hardline movement have been described as espousing Old Testament-style spirituality, militancy, and violence. Violent activism has been described as an \"extreme minority\" within the vegan straight edge movement.\n\nHaenfler writes that straight edge participants see veganism as an extension of the movement's emphasis on positivity, much like their preference to reserve sex for emotionally meaningful relationships. They tend to focus more on personal responsibility than confronting systemic issues in society. However, veganism is not seen as a matter of personal purity, but rather is rooted in strong belief in animal rights, and a means of personally rejecting the exploitation of animals. Some hold that veganism is \"true straight edge\", and their promotion of veganism and animal liberation has been described as evangelistic.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26692723", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26692723", "title": "Study of global communication", "text": "Study of global communication\n\nGlobal communication is the term used to describe ways to connect, share, relate and mobilize across geographic, political, economic, social and cultural divides. It redefines soft and hard power as well as information power and diplomacy in ways not considered by traditional theories of international relations. \n\nGlobal Communication implies a transfer of knowledge and ideas from centers of power to peripheries and the imposition of a new intercultural hegemony by means of the \"soft power\" of global news and entertainment.\n\nThe study of global communication is an interdisciplinary field that studies the continuous flows of information used in transferring values, opinions, knowledge, culture across boundaries. \n\nWith the end of the twentieth century and the turn of a new millennium, the global arena and the field of international communication were undergoing significant changes. Some authors started to use the term global communication because it goes beyond the bounds of individual states and emphasizes communication between and among peoples across borders and, importantly, the rise of transnational media corporations.\n\nInternational communication traditionally refers to communication between and among nation-states and connotes issues of national sovereignty, control of national information resources, and the supremacy of national governments.\n\nNevertheless, earlier International communication theories have failed to develop models or research agendas that match the reality of the contemporary role of global communication . The old theories only explain part of the global picture and the theories of modernization, dependency, and cultural imperialism have failed to satisfactorily explain global communication.\n\nThe term \"global\", implies a declining role of the state and state sovereignty. As a term, \"international\" has within it notions of bilateral or multilateral decisions. \"Global\" could be seen as an aspiration, also as a fear, of the weakening of the state. In addition, global may imply something more pervasive, more geographically inclusive than international. \n\nThe study of global communication increased dramatically after World War II due to military considerations coupled with their economic and political implications. Earlier attempts at theorizing have failed to develop models or research agendas that match the reality of the contemporary role of global communication .\n\nMore global communication research was written in the decade from 1945–1955; most of the research of the 1950s dealt with propaganda and the cold war. By 1970, global communication research had grown to include a great variety of subjects, especially comparative mass communication systems, communication and national development and propaganda and public opinion.\n\nFrom the point of view of global communication scholars, previous theories of modernization, dependency, and cultural imperialism have failed to satisfactorily explain global communication. The old theories only explain part of the global picture.\n\nThe emergence of global communication technologies may be considered the origin of the field of global communication in the nineteenth century. Numerous technical advances such as the creation of a new major global communication phenomenon, convergence, digital environments and the internet are some of the major engines driving the change from international communication to global communication.\n\nWith the collapse of the Soviet Union, the shadow of Cold War has lifted to reveal shifting political, economic, and cultural alliances and conflicts. The increasing importance of these currents, especially in the cultural sphere, demands a reconsideration of the nature of the international communication field within the rubric of international relations.\n\nThree key players are usually recognized as the founders of the international news agencies. In 1835, Charles-Louis Havas created the world's first news agency; In 1849, Bernhard Wolff started publishing stock market news and daily reports from Paris, London, Amsterdam, and Frankfurt; In 1849, Paul Julius Freiherr von Reuter established his own commercial service, the Reuter agency, and organized a worldwide exchange of news in 1870.\n\nIn 1859, Reuter, Havas and the German Wolff agency reached an agreement to exchange news from all over the world, which was known as the League of Allied Agencies, or the \" Ring Combination\". In 1848, American News Agency Associated Press was founded and was formally admitted into the \"Ring Combination\" in 1887.\n\nThere are some major factors that point to the growing importance of global communication in the world of the twenty-first century:\n\n\n\nTranscultural Political Economy is a concept that is presented in Global Communications by Paula Chakravartty and Yeuzhi Zhao. This concept looks at global communications and media studies in three major areas: global flows of information and culture, decentralizing the conceptual parameters of global information and media studies, and the normative debates in global communications in the context of neoliberalism. Transcultural Political Economy is a multidisciplinary study that focuses on the tensions between political economy and cultural studies. It \"integrate[s] institutional and cultural analyzes and address urgent questions in global communications in the context of economic integration, empire formation, and the tensions associated with adapting new privatized technologies, neoliberalized and globalized institutional structures, and hybrid cultural forms and practices\". Transcultural Political Economy addresses the issues surrounding the practice of neoliberalism and its creation of unequal power structures within the world system. \nGlobalization theory was popularized in the 1990s as a model for understanding global communication. The concept of globalization inspired a number of theories from various schools of thought in communication studies that each emphasize different aspects of globalization. Many globalization theories highlight actors in the business sector as leaders in the processes of global integration. Transnationalizing business is often celebrated as progression toward a more interconnected world. Globalization theories are often associated with theories of modernity. Some scholars view globalization as the social, political, economic, and cultural integration of societies into a capitalist system; Others see globalization as a successor to modernity, while some see it as an iteration of imperialism. Some question the usefulness and legitimacy of globalization theory, arguing that it does not adequately conceptualize current international relations or function as a lens through which to examine everyday events. Many scholars criticize globalization theories as overzealous toward and unrealistic about the extent of global integration. Some scholars criticize social theorists for offering opinions and predictions based on theory with little practical evidence. In contrast, some scholars work to dispute the pessimistic views of globalization theory.\n\nWorld-system theory is a macro-sociological perspective that seeks to explain the dynamics of the \"capitalist world economy\" as a \"total social system\". A world-system is what Wallerstein terms a \"world-economy\", integrated through the market rather than a political centre, in which two or more regions are interdependent with respect to necessities like food, fuel, and two or more polities compete for domination without the emergence of one single centre forever. World-system theory was first articulated by Immanuel Wallerstein. There are three major sources of the world-system theory which conceived by Wallerstein: the Annales school's general methodology, Marx's focus on accumulation process and competitive class struggles and so on, and dependence theory's neo-Marxist explanation of development processes.\n\nReferring to the transnational division of labor, world-system divides the world into core countries, peripheral countries, semi-peripheral countries and external areas. The core countries usually developed a strong central governments, extensive bureaucracies and large mercenary armies, which permit the local bourgeoisie to obtain control over international commerce and extract capital surpluses from the trade for benefits. The peripheral countries often lack strong central governments or been controlled by core countries, they export raw materials and rely on coercive labor practices. Semi-peripheries which served as buffers between the core and the peripheries. They retain limited but declining access to international banking and the production of high-cost high-quality manufactured goods.[3] External areas such as Russia maintain their own economic systems, they want to remain outside the modern world economy.\n\nThe theory of modernization was developed by Daniel Lerner (1958) in the \"Passing of traditional society.\" Lerner's description of \"modernised\" is an individual having the ability to be empathetic and being able to see oneself in another person's situation. This concept has come from the transition of traditional societies to modern societies, where modern societies is distinctively industrial, urban, literate, and participant. This theory looks at development in a linear fashion, concluding that nations need to develop into a modern society to make it a sustainable and flourishing nation. Developing modernized societies include technological advancement, and developing media sectors to help create a participatory culture. \n\"See also:\" Post-structuralism, imperialism, modernity,\n\nPost-colonialism is a theoretical approach to looking at literature that examines the colonizer-colonized experience. It deals with the adaptation of formerly colonized nations and their development in cultural, political, economical aspects. Some Notable theoreticians include: Frantz Fanon, Edward Said, Gayatri Spivak, R Siva Kumar, Dipesh Chakrabarty, Derek Gregory.\n\nCultural imperialism is a mighty civilization exerts culture influence over another. Less economically prominent cultures often import culture from Western countries, which have the economic means to produce a majority of the world's cultural media, mostly via the global transmission of media. The weak civilization adopts the mighty civilization's customs, philosophies, worldviews and general ways of life. The theoretical foundations of the academic study of cultural imperialism mostly come from Michel Foucault's concept of biopower, governmentality and Edward Saïd's concept of Post-colonialism, which theories see cultural imperialism as the cultural legacy of colonialism or forms of Western hegemony. Media effect study which integrated with political-economy traditional is the core argument of cultural imperialism. There are two opposite effects of media study. The negative one is that Western media imposes socio-political conflicts to the developing country and the latter one's resistance to the media effects to preserve their traditional cultural identities. The positive effects are the issues of the process of civilization such as women's right or racial equality with exposing to Western media. Now the term of cultural imperialism usually refers to America's global culture expansion to the rest of world, which include brand name products, video media, fast food and so on.\n\nCommunication for Development (C4D) is a praxis oriented aspect of global communication studies that approaches global development with a focus on action and participation for social change enacted through communication systems. C4D underlines \"voice, citizenship and collective action\" as central values that promote citizen-led development where the visiting party provides guidance rather than direction within the host community. C4D often incorporates bottom-up theories of social change with the aim to create sustainable change which is believed to be more likely to occur if the efforts are planned, implemented, and sustained by community members themselves. Some development workers and academics suggest that a shared definition of communication for development should be clarified, because disagreement within the field can detract from the characteristics that most scholars view as central to current development, including participatory action research (PAR). Many C4D projects revolve around media systems as a central site for social change, which differentiates C4D from other approaches to development. Theories behind C4D highlight that development projects should be contextually situated and that communication technology will affect different types of social change accordingly.\n\nGlobal media studies is a field of media study in a global scope. Media study deals with the content, history and effects of media. Media study often draws on theories and methods from the disciplines of cultural studies, rhetoric, philosophy, communication studies, feminist theory, political economy and sociology. Among these study approaches, political economic analysis is non-ignorable in understanding the current media and communication developments. But the political economic research has become more resilient because of stronger empirical studies, and the potential connections to policy-making and alternative praxis.\n\nEach country has its own distinct media ecosystem. The media of mainland China is state-run, so the political subjects are under the strict regulations set by the government while other areas such as sports, finance, and increasingly lucrative entertainment industry face less regulation from government. Canada has a well-developed media sector, but the mass media is threatened by the direct outcome of American economic and cultural imperialism which hinder the form of Canada's media identity. Many of the media in America are controlled by large for-profit corporations who reap revenues from advertisings, subscriptions and the sale of copyrighted materials. Currently, six corporations (Comcast, The Walt Disney Company, News Corporation, Time Warner, Viacom and CBS Corporation) have controlled roughly 90% of the America media. Such successes come from the policies of the federal government or the tendency to natural monopolies in the industry.\n\nImmanuel Wallerstein's world system theory develops a basic framework to understand global power shifts in the rise of the modern world. Wallerstein proposes four different categories: core, semi-periphery, periphery, and external, in terms of different region's relative position in the world system. The core regions are the ones that benefited the most from the capitalist world economy, such as England and France. The peripheral areas relied on and exported raw materials to the core, such as Eastern Europe and Latin America. The semi-peripheries are either core regions in decline or peripheries attempting to improve their relative position in the world system, such as Portugal and Spain. The external areas managed to remain outside the modern world economy, such as Russia.\n\nThere are two basic types of global power shifts in the 21st century. One is traditional power transition amongst states, which follows Wallerstein's world system theory. For instance, the global power shifts from the West to the East since the rise of Asia. The other is power diffusion, the way that power move from states to non-states actors. For instance, \"climate change, drug trade, financial flows, pandemics, all these things that cross borders outsider the control of governments.\"\n\nPublic sphere theory, attributed to Jurgen Habermas, is a theory that in its basic premise conceives of democratic governments as those that can stand criticism that comes from public spheres. Public spheres are places, physical or imagined, where people discuss any kind of topic, particularly topics of a societal or political nature. Global public sphere is, therefore, a public that is made of people from across the globe, who come together to discuss and act on issues that concern them. The concept of global public sphere is linked to the shift of public sphere, from restricted to nation-state, to made of individuals and groups connected across as well as within borders.\n\nSince Plato, it can be argued that philosophers have been thinking about versions of a common space for all people to debate in; however, a global public sphere that can fit the description above began to appear much later. In the second half of the 20th century, the legacy of World War II and technological advancements created a new sense of the global and started the economic and political phenomena that we now call globalization. This includes the expansion of humankind into space, which gave individuals the sense of a global unity, the growth of satellite technology, which allowed for people across the globe to view the same television channels, and the internet, which can provide access to an unprecedented amount of information and spaces to connect with other people.\n\nThe term \"culture industry\" appeared in the post-war period. At that time, culture and industry were argued to be opposites. Cultural industries\" are also referred to as the \"Creative industries.\n\nIn the present day, there remain different interpretations of culture as an industry. For some, cultural industries are simply those industries that produce cultural goods and services.\n\nIn the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO), the cultural industries are regarded as those industries that \"combine the creation, production and commercialization of contents which are intangible and cultural in nature. These contents are typically protected by copyright and they can take the form of goods or services\". According to UNESCO, an essential part of cultural industries is that they are \"central in promoting and maintaining cultural diversity and in ensuring democratic access to culture\". \"Cultural industries\" combines the cultural and economic, which gives the cultural industries a distinctive profile.\n\nIn France, the \"cultural industries\" have recently been defined as a set of economic activities that combine the functions of conception, creation and production of culture with more industrial functions in the large-scale manufacture and commercialization cultural products.\n\nIn Canada, economic activities involved in the preservation of heritage are also included in the definition of culture.\n\nSince the rise of the cultural industries has occurred simultaneously with economic globalization, cultural industries have close connections with globalization and global communication.\n\nHerbert Schiller argued that the 'entertainment, communications and information (ECI) complex were having a direct impact on culture and human consciousness. As Schiller argued, the result of transnational corporate expansion is the perpetuation of cultural imperialism, defined as \"the sum of the processes by which a society is brought into the modern world system and how its dominating stratum is attracted, pressured, forced, and sometimes bribed into shaping social institutions to correspond to, or even promote, the values and structures of the dominating centre of the system\".\n\nThe second wave of transnational corporate expansion, which began in the 1970s with the emergence of Export Processing Zones in developing countries, is focused on the development of global production networks. This process was described as a \"new international division of labour\" (NIDL) by the German political economists Frӧbel et al. (1980).\n\nErnst and Kim have argued that GPNs are changing the nature of the multinational corporation itself, from \"stand alone overseas investment projects, to \"global network flagships\" that integrate their dispersed supply, knowledge and customer bases into global and regional production networks\", entailing a shift from top-down hierarchical models of corporate control to increasingly networked and collective forms of organization.\n\nThe largest firms in media and media-related industries have a very high international profile. Global media empires such as Disney, News Corporation, Time-Warner and Viacom-CBS now derive 25-45 per cent of their revenues outside of the United States.\n\nIt is often argued that the global media are dominated by a small number of powerful media conglomerates. Herman and McChesney (1997) argued that the global media were \"dominated by three or four dozen large transnational corporations (TNCs) with fewer than ten mostly US-based media conglomerates towering over the global market.\" Similarly, Manfred Steger has observed that \" to a very large extent, the global cultural flows of our time are generated and directed by global media empires that rely on powerful communication technologies to spread their message.\" He also argued that during the last two decades, a few very large TNCs would come to dominate the global market for entertainment, news, television, and film.\n\nDiaspora is often confused with exodus. Diasporas are minority groups that have a sense of connection with a larger community outside of the borders they currently inhabit, and through diasporic media create a sense of a larger identity and community, whether imagined or real. In scholarly work about diaspora in communication studies, the view of nation and culture as interchangeable terms is no longer prevalent. Stuart Hall theorized of hybridity, which he distinguished from \"old style pluralism\", \"nomadic voyaging of the postmodern\", and \"global homogenization\". Hybridity is the retention of an original identity and strong ties to an original country and tradition, but with the understanding that there is no unchanged, ideal nation of the past that they can return to. To be hybrid is to also adapt to a new culture and tradition without simply assimilating in it, but rather negotiating a place between the \"original\" and \"new\" cultures. In Communication studies, diaspora is discussed as the identity that unifies people across time and space, sometimes existing in physical spaces and other times existing in imagined 'non-spaces'. However, it has been argued that the concept of 'diaspora' implies ethnic homogeneity and essentializes identity to only ethnicity. One of the most cited and well-known works in the field of diasporic media is Hamid Naficy's work on exiled Iranian Americans' creation of cable television in the United States.\n\nDiasporic media refer to media that address the needs of particular ethnic, religious, and/or linguistic groups that live in multicultural settings . Diasporic media can be in the diaspora's traditional language or in another language, and they can include news or media from the \"origin\" country or they can contain the diaspora's local news or media. Diasporic media can be created in radio, television, film, music, in newspapers, magazines, and other publishing, as well as online. It can be argued that the development and spread of satellite television is an instrumental element of the growth of diasporic media today. Satellite television allowed migrants to access the news and popular culture from their homeland, as well as allowing people who speak the same language to access the same channels that might be produced outside of the \"homeland\"\n\nContemporary studies of diaspora show that diasporic media are part of the change in the tendency Immanuel Wallerstein described in his world systems theory. The world systems theory postulates that much of the flow of people in the world has been from the 'periphery', or economically-developing states, towards the centre; which are often metropolitan, economically-wealthy states that grew their wealth in colonialist entrepreneurship. However, contrary to the movement of people, the flow of information (including media products), has tended to be from the centre to the periphery.\n\nThe advancement of media and technology have played the pivotal role in process of globalization and global communication. Cable television, ISDN, digitalization, direct broadcast satellites as well as the Internet have created a situation where vast amounts of information can be transferred around the globe in a matter of seconds.\n\nDuring the early 20th century, telegraph, telephony, and radio started the process of global communication. As media technologies developed intensely, they were thought to create, in Marshall McLuhan’ s famous words, a ‘‘global village.’’ The launch of Sputnik, the world’ s first artificial satellite, on October 4, 1957, marked the beginning of technologies that would further interconnect the world. The first live global television broadcast occurred when Neil Armstrong stepped onto the moon in July 1969. In November 1972, pay TV caused expansion of cable when Service Electric offered Home Box Office over its cable system. By 2000, over direct broadcast satellite, a household could receive channels from all over the world. Now with the World Wide Web, smart phones, tablet devices, smart televisions and other digital media devices, billions of people are now able to access media content that was once tied to particular communications media (print, broadcast) or platforms (newspapers, magazines, radio, television, cinema).\n\nJustice in communication studies includes, but is not limited to, the concern with democratic process and fostering democratic publics . Jurgen Habermas theorized of public sphere (in \"The Structural Transformation of the Public Sphere\") as the space that is created whenever matters of common concern are discussed between the state and civil society. Thus, public sphere includes not only the media, but also public protest in the form of marches, demonstrations, et cetera. There are, however, critiques of political economy in whose view it is impossible to work within the current system to produce democratic publics. Such a critique is that produced by Karl Marx, who saw institutions such as parliament, the state, the 'acceptable' public sphere, economic enterprises, and so on as structurally produced and perpetuated by a capitalist system, and thus they can not be mobilized to change it. In such a system, there can only be illusory justice, which is fair only within the logic of the system. This illusion of justice is produced through dominating ideology.\n\nAnother issue of justice in communication studies is the question of decolonizing research methods and theoretical discourse . The idea of decolonizing research comes from a rejection of the functionalist approach, which assumed that research can be conducted in a vacuum, free of ideology or the researcher's biases. This approach assumed cultures to be unchanging, homogenous, and isolated from each other. The purpose of decolonizing research and discourse is to 'uncloak' research as an unbiased power structure, and produce research that is more self-aware. The approach in decolonizing research methods attempts to create methodologies that treat the people in the study as participants or partners, rather than subjects - which is a term that in itself carries strong connotations of colonialism. Decolonizing research also involves moving away from Eurocentric models that are assumed to work anywhere else, and instead to create work that is more useful in local contexts. Decolonial approaches specifically seek to produce knowledge about the mechanisms and effects of colonialism. These approaches allow former subjects to 'talk back', which is a reflection of independent agency, on the colonizer's own terms of research, rather than to be 'given' a voice, which is an unequal power structure.\n\n"}
{"id": "56083042", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56083042", "title": "Sweet Hope", "text": "Sweet Hope\n\n\"Sweet Hope\" (2011), an award-winning historical novel by Mary Bucci Bush, tells the story of Italian immigrants living in peonage on a Mississippi Delta cotton plantation in the early 1900s. It was inspired by the experiences of Bush's grandmother, Pasquina Fratini Galavotti, who worked on the Sunnyside Plantation in Arkansas as a child. \n\nTwo families develop an uneasy friendship while eking out a living on a cotton plantation named Sweet Hope. The Pascalas are Italian immigrants working as indentured laborers; the Halls are African-American sharecroppers. Like the other workers at Sweet Hope, the Pascalas and the Halls face disease, poverty, and a dangerous manager. The black sharecroppers help the Italians learn English and survive in an unfamiliar climate.\n\nThe Pascalas are paid in company scrip and forbidden to leave the plantation until their debt is worked off. Having arrived too late in the year to start a crop, they keep falling further into debt. After attempting to negotiate with management for better conditions, the Italians organize against the plantation company. When the sharecroppers stand up for the Italians, it triggers \"a tragic chain of events that implicates individuals, families, company, town, and the justice system.\"\n\nIn the late 1800s and early 1900s, thousands of Italians were lured to the American South to work on plantations and in factories, where they were often exploited. In 1907, the U.S. Department of Justice appointed Mary Grace Quackenbos to investigate complaints that workers in the South were being held in peonage. A major focus of the investigation was Sunnyside, a cotton plantation in Arkansas.\n\nAs a child, Mary Bucci Bush heard many stories about the Sunnyside plantation from her grandmother and great aunt, who had worked there as children. \"Sweet Hope\" was inspired by their accounts. In the 1970s, Bush began recording interviews with her grandmother. In the late 1980s she spent several weeks camping out on the Sunnyside site, interviewing survivors and descendants of plantation workers. Over the years she made several more trips to the area. On one of them, she happened to meet the historian Randolph Boehm, who was researching a biography of Quackenbos. Boehm introduced Bush to Ernesto Milani, who was researching Sunnyside from the perspective of the Italian government. The three writers shared their research and lectured together at conferences.\n\nAlthough Bush is careful to note that \"Sweet Hope\" is a work of fiction, she dedicated it to \"all the inhabitants of Sunnyside Plantation, Italian and African American, whose voices were never heard and whose stories were never told.\"\n\nAfter years of research and revision, Bush spent several more years trying to find a publisher for her novel. She was told the market for historical fiction was small. Another reason, she suggested in an interview, was a lack of interest in the stories of Italian Americans other than mobsters.\n\nThe novel was published by a Canadian press, Guernica Editions, in 2011. Excerpts have appeared in literary journals such as \"Syracuse University Magazine\" (1990) and \"Fili D'Aquilone\" (in Italian, 2016); and in anthologies, including Mary Jo Bona's \"The Voices We Carry: Recent Italian American Women's Fiction\" (2007), Anthony Tamburri's \"From the Margin: Writings in Italian Americana\" (2000), Maria Mazziotti Gillan's \"Growing Up Ethnic in America\" (1999), and Terry Wolverton's \"HERS 2: Brilliant New Fiction by Lesbian Writers\" (1997).\n\n\"Sweet Hope\" won the Tillie Olsen Book Prize from the Working Class Studies Association in 2012. It was a finalist for Binghamton University's John Gardner Book Award and the 2012 Paterson Fiction Prize. In December 2012 it was the subject of a panel discussion at the annual conference of the Italian American Studies Association. \n\nWhile not widely reviewed, the book has been praised by several critics. Thom Vernon of the \"Arkansas Review\" classes \"Sweet Hope\" with John Steinbeck's \"The Grapes of Wrath\", Rebecca Harding Davis's \"Life in the Iron Mills\", Pietro Di Donato's \"Christ in Concrete\", and other notable works that give voice to the working poor. A reviewer in \"Publishers Weekly\" calls the book \"thoroughly researched and engaging.\" In \"Italian Americana\", UCLA professor Joanne Ruvoli writes, \"This heartbreaking historical novel makes an important contribution to the story of Italian Americans in the United States.\"\n"}
{"id": "7513829", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7513829", "title": "Swiss Literary Archives", "text": "Swiss Literary Archives\n\nThe Swiss Literary Archives (SLA - \"Schweizerische Literaturarchiv\") in Bern collects literary estates in all four national languages of Switzerland (German, French, Italian and Romansh language). It is part of the Swiss National Library operated by the Federal Office of Culture within the Federal Department of Home Affairs.\n\nThe archives were founded in 1991 and are located in the building of the Swiss National Library. The foundation can be tracked back to the last will of the writer Friedrich Dürrenmatt, who died in 1989. Dürrenmatt gave his literary remains to the state, but under the condition that the state establishes a national archive for literature. \n\nThe Swiss Literary Archives today contain around 100 important literary estates and premortal-estates and about 120 partial estates and collections, including material from:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12166425", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12166425", "title": "Teen dating violence", "text": "Teen dating violence\n\nTeen dating violence is the physical, sexual, or psychological / emotional abuse (or violence) within a dating relationship among adolescents. Intimate partner violence (IPV) has been a well examined and documented phenomenon in adults; however, there has not been nearly as much study on violence in adolescent dating relationships, and it is therefore not as well understood. The research has mainly focused on Caucasian youth, and there are yet no studies which focus specifically on IPV in adolescent same-sex romantic relationships.\n\nIntimate partner violence (IPV) in adolescents is an important realm of study as, in addition to the usual negative effects of abuse, this violence occurs at a critical period in the social and mental development of a person. This is also an important topic from a gender studies perspective as almost 32% of male adolescents engage in some form of violence, whether sexual, physical or emotional, towards their partners while adolescent violence from females is nearly half of that rate. Also, according to the United States public health authority, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), \"[a]dolescents and adults are often unaware that teens experience dating violence.\"\n\nThe literature on IPV among adolescents indicates that the rates are similar for the number of girls and boys in heterosexual relationships who report experiencing IPV, or that girls in heterosexual relationships are more likely than their male counterparts to report perpetrating IPV. Ely et al. stated that, unlike domestic violence in general, equal rates of IPV perpetration is a unique characteristic with regard adolescent dating violence, and that this is \"perhaps because the period of adolescence, a special developmental state, is accompanied by sexual characteristics that are distinctly different from the characteristics of adult.\" Wekerle and Wolfe theorized that \"a mutually coercive and violent dynamic may form during adolescence, a time when males and females are more equal on a physical level\" and that this \"physical equality allows girls to assert more power through physical violence than is possible for an adult female attacked by a fully physically mature man.\"\n\nRegarding studies that indicate that girls are as likely or more likely than boys to commit IPV, the authors emphasize that substantial differences exist between the genders, including that girls are significantly more likely than boys to report having experienced severe IPV, such as being threatened with a weapon, punched, strangled, beaten, burned, or raped, and are also substantially more likely than boys to need psychological help or experience physical injuries that require medical help for the abuse, and to report sexual violence as a part of dating violence. They are also more likely to take IPV more seriously. By contrast, boys are more likely to report experiencing less severe acts, such as being pinched, slapped, scratched or kicked. Girls are more likely to report committing less serious forms of IPV, including as a means of self-defense, whereas boys are more likely to report committing more severe acts of IPV, including threats, physical violence and controlling a partner. That girls are more likely to engage in IPV as a result of self-defense is supported by findings that previous victimization is a stronger predictor of perpetration in females than in males. Other research indicates that boys who have been abused in childhood by a family member are more prone to IPV perpetration, while girls who have been abused in childhood by a family member are prone to lack empathy and self-efficacy; but the risks for the likelihood of IPV perpetration and victimization among adolescents vary and are not well understood.\n\nThere is a common misconception that aggression is stable over time. That is, young people who are labeled as or considered to be violent and aggressive at any point in time are then assumed to be dangerous for the rest of their lives. This is a contentious issue because there is a desire to protect both parties involved (or that have the potential to become involved) in teen dating violence. While classifying the perpetrator as a threat may be detrimental to his or her life and future relationships, not classifying the perpetrator this way may put future partners at risk.\n\nThere is considerable debate over whether we as a society have an accurate picture of the prevalence and severity of teen dating violence by gender. It is important to note that although male and female adolescents do not differ in \"overall frequency of violence in dating relationships,\" females are subject to \"significantly higher levels of severe violence\". This fact begs the question of whether abuse should be evaluated based on “severity” and how that can and should be measured, or if all abuse should be considered equally harmful.\n\nAge of consent is an issue that cannot be ignored in the discussion of teenage dating violence. Teenage sex is regulated in such a way that \"age of consent laws render teenagers below a certain age incapable of consent to sexual activity with adults, and sometimes with peers\". In some cases, the adult may be just a few months older than the minor. There are a number of states in which \"age of consent statutes are used to prosecute consensual sex between two persons both under the age of consent.\" This type of prosecution has been deemed unconstitutional in some states by citing violation of privacy rights, but remains in effect in other states. Sexual behavior and aggression can be so deeply intertwined that the legality of underage consensual sex is sure to have an effect on teen dating violence.\n\nSignificant research has been done on the causes behind violent behavior in adolescent dating relationships with the intention of guiding the creation of dating violence prevention programs, and in turn has provided findings on the roles of nature and nurture in the development of such behavior with a strong favor towards nurture factors. A study published in the Journal of Epidemiology and Community Health examined the potential association between a spectrum of childhood adverse experiences and physical violence in relationships before age 21 for both members. The subjects were asked questions about violence in their adolescent relationships, as either victim or perpetrator, and their childhood surrounding twelve different adversities: parental death, parental divorce, long-term separation from parent, parental mental illness, parental substance abuse disorder, parental criminality, inter-parental violence, serious physical illness in childhood, physical abuse, sexual abuse, neglect, and family economic adversity. The results demonstrated a strong positive correlation between ten out of the twelve childhood adversities and physically violent behavior in a teen relationship, with 13.8% responding with experiences of sexual violence, and 11.6% experiencing inter-parental violence. This points to a strong influence of experience, or nature, on violent tendencies in adolescent relationships. Multiple other studies corroborate these findings, citing childhood bullying, assault, and maltreatment as significant indicators for future violence in adolescent dating. Though there has been little explicit study of the relationship between nature and teen dating violence, there has been proven correlation between testosterone levels and violent tendencies that could come to fruition in adolescent dating relationships. Higher testosterone levels “manifests itself in various intensities and forms from; thoughts, anger, verbal aggressiveness, competition, dominance behavior, to physical violence.” A study published in the International Journal of Endocrinology and Metabolism reported, “Testosterone plays a significant role in the arousal of these behavioral manifestations in the brain centers involved in aggression and on the development of the muscular system that enables their realization. There is evidence that testosterone levels are higher in individuals with aggressive behavior, such as prisoners who have committed violent crimes.” However, the study also noted that many cases of high testosterone levels are disarmed through socialization. Overall, because children are exposed to relationships early in their life through their parents and being so malleable at a young age, most evidence points to an adverse experience or experiences in childhood as fodder for such behavior in adolescence.\n\nThe literature on IPV among adolescents primarily focuses on Caucasian youth, and there are yet no studies which focus specifically on IPV in adolescent same-sex romantic relationships.\n\nWhile dating, domestic and sexual violence affect women regardless of their age, teens and young women are especially vulnerable. Young people ages 12 to 19 experience the highest rates of rape and sexual assault, and people age 18 and 19 experience the highest rates of stalking. Approximately one in three adolescent girls in the United States is a victim of physical, emotional, or verbal abuse from a dating partner—a figure that far exceeds victimization rates for other types of violence affecting youth Mark Green, former Wisconsin Representative said \"if the numbers we see in domestic violence (dating violence) were applied to terrorism or gang violence, the entire country would be up in arms, and it would be the lead story on the news every night\". According to \"Women's Health\", \"81% of parents surveyed either believed dating violence is not an issue or admit they don't know if it's an issue\", this is concerning because of the growth of dating abuse in teenagers relationships. Dating violence has advanced through the years by the means of communication technology. A survey conducted by Teenage Research Unlimited stated that \"[10] percent of teens have been threatened physically via e-mail, IM, text messaging, chat rooms, etc.\"\n\nA 2008 meta-analysis, which examined 62 empirical research studies between 1996 and 2006, relating to domestic violence in heterosexual intimate relationships from adolescence through to adulthood in the United States, reported on research findings that consistently show that adolescent females commit significantly more acts of domestic violence in intimate relationships than adolescent males. It stated, however, that the \"data also suggest that females who commit acts of domestic violence may experience more violent or frequent IPV victimization than males\" and that \"[t]he highest rates [for female-perpetrated IPV] were found for emotional violence, followed by physical and sexual violence. Prevalence rates varied widely within each population, most likely due to methodological and sampling differences across studies.\" The authors added, \"Few longitudinal studies existed, limiting the extent to which we could identify developmental patterns associated with female perpetrated intimate partner violence.\" They found a few studies which reported prevalence rates of IPV perpetration among females at two or more time points, which they stated made \"it difficult to obtain a clear picture of the developmental patterns associated with this type of violence.\" There was also only one study that reported on prevalence rates over time for female perpetrated IPV among adolescents. \"This study found a significant increase in prevalence over a six month period; however, they measured lifetime perpetration of IPV, therefore, it is unclear if there was an actual increase or simply an accumulation of violence,\" stated the authors. \"Together, these studies provide very limited evidence that female perpetration of IPV may follow a similar developmental trajectory as other forms of violence. [...] Unfortunately, many of the studies included in this review used modified or alternative instruments making it difficult to accurately compare prevalence estimates.\"\n\nIn a 2009 survey, the CDC found that 9.8% of high school students in the U.S. reported having been intentionally physically hurt by their boyfriend or girlfriend in the preceding 12 months. A 2011 CDC nationwide survey of the U.S. population reported that 23% of females and 14% of males who ever experienced rape, other physical violence, or stalking by an intimate partner first experienced some form of partner violence between 11 and 17 years of age. The ages between 16 and 24 are when youth are the most susceptible to dating violence. Also, according to the CDC, one in ten teens will be physically abused between seventh and twelfth grade. Because of this abuse, victims are more likely to abuse drugs and alcohol, employ precarious sexual conduct, develop eating disorders, and attempt suicide. The above numbers are notable in their magnitude and in their discrepancy, indicating that at some point between birth and high school a huge number of males are learning that it is useful and acceptable to abuse their dating partners in some way. The reciprocal of males learning violent behaviors is that women are not learning this fact and are instead learning through our culture and through violence directed at them that they are to be submissive. Males learning violent behaviors coupled with females thinking it normative creates a cycle of women being abused, learning to accept it and imparting this idea to their children and repeating the process. According to a study conducted by Susan M. Sanders she found that many adolescents do not always view aggressive behavior as violent or abusive and roughly 77.6% young girls agreed that after a physical altercation such as being kicked by their partner that they would cease to date them. The study conducted demonstrated that many adolescents, primarily females were more susceptible to leave only after a physical altercation took place. With these studies it was found that once a physical altercation took place the victim would then view it as abusive and eventually desire to leave the relationship. Adolescent dating violence is a subject which must be understood in order for true equality between the sexes to be achieved and to help stop partner violence in adults before it occurs.\n\nIn the United States, the National Conference of State Legislators (NCSL) states that \"[p]olicymakers can play a role in preventing teen dating violence\". and lists those states that currently have laws requiring school boards to develop and adopt programs to address this issue. Further, according to NCSL \"[i]n 2011 at least eight states have introduced legislation to address teen dating violence\". On January 31, 2011, President Obama proclaimed February 2011 to be \"National Teen Dating Violence Awareness and Prevention Month\". In 2006 the U.S. first recognized \"National Teen Dating Violence Awareness and Prevention Week\", sponsored by Senator Mike Crapo, to \"increase public awareness and education of the prevalence of teen dating violence among our nation's teens\". The first week in February was so recognized through 2009. Beginning in 2010, Senator Crapo joined the Department of Justice in recognizing the month of February as Teen Dating Violence Awareness and Prevention Month.\n\nThe National Dating Abuse Helpline, created by National Domestic Violence Hotline, is a 24-hour nationwide Web-based and telephone resource created to help teens and young people who are experiencing dating abuse. They offer information on building healthy relationships and how to recognize warning signs. It is the only helpline in the country serving all 50 states, Puerto Rico, and the Virgin Islands.\n\n\nIn 2010, a campaign by the Home Office featured adverts targeting \"boys and girls aged 13 to 18\" via television, radio, Internet, and poster campaigns. The campaign followed research by the NSPCC indicating that approximately one-quarter of 13- to 17-year-old females had experienced physical abuse from a dating partner.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37521571", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37521571", "title": "The Circle of Reason", "text": "The Circle of Reason\n\nThe Circle of Reason (COR) is a Twin Cities, Minnesota-based international society of theists, atheists, conservatives, and liberals who espouse the social philosophy of pluralistic rationalism (also plurationalism or methodological rationalism).\n\nPluralistic rationalism is described in cultural media as \"commitment to reason[ing], regardless of one's worldview,\" and by the society itself as \"communal commitment to more consistently practice the basic methodological tenets of a reasoning lifestyle (reality's acceptance, assumption's denial, and emotion's mastery) irrespective of our theological, ethical, cultural or political worldviews.\" According to The Circle of Reason, pluralistic rationalism is practiced through encouraging not a particular worldview, but rather factualism, skepticism, and moderationism; and furthermore through discouraging their opposing practices of denialism, dogmatism, and emotionalism -- or \"denials of reality, unquestioned assumptions (potentially false realities), and emotive arguments or actions (dissociation from reality).\" Plurationalist practices include discouraging the verbal, printed or televised use of insults (which the group asserts is immoral because, as \"ad hominem\" argumentation, it seeks to \"irrationally persuade by evoking emotionality.\") Because plurationalists hold that \"as a sapient being one's best tool to survive is one's ability to reason,\" they claim people's basic universalized moral imperative must then be \"to consistently allow, and encourage, others to reason.\" \n\nReflecting the plurationalist society's call to \"more consistently use everyday reasoning regardless of our worldviews,\" its institutional practices have included organizing the United States' first reported \"theist + atheist\" dialogue group, \"Secular Bible Study,\" for reasoning discussion on the historical context, societal impact and cultural relevance of the Bible and religion, and \"Ancient Greek Peripatetic\"-style nature walks combined with \"transcultural, transbelief reasoning dialogue\" on current social issues; organizing and moderating \"Assumptions on the [Minnesota Same-Sex] Marriage Amendment: A Reasoning Forum\" for theists, atheists, conservatives & liberals; defending a Catholic legislator shunned by his archdiocese for refusing to defund reproductive health clinics; presenting an address on plurationalism, \"Be Sane — Be VERY Sane!\" to the \"Rally to Restore Sanity Minnesota\" at the State Capitol; and successfully lobbying the state capital city's Council of Churches to become the first local council of religions in the United States to change the name of its religious \"interfaith\" dialogue group to \"interbelief,\" to better welcome atheists and secular humanists with no religious faith but with philosophical or ethical beliefs.\n\nThe Pluralism Project at Harvard University has described the Circle of Reason as a \"promising practice.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "890626", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=890626", "title": "The Curious Incident of the Dog in the Night-Time", "text": "The Curious Incident of the Dog in the Night-Time\n\nThe Curious Incident of the Dog in the Night-Time is a 2003 mystery novel by British writer Mark Haddon. Its title quotes the fictional detective Sherlock Holmes in Arthur Conan Doyle's 1892 short story \"The Adventure of Silver Blaze\". Haddon and \"The Curious Incident\" won the Whitbread Book Awards for Best Novel and Book of the Year, the Commonwealth Writers' Prize for Best First Book, and the Guardian Children's Fiction Prize. Unusually, it was published simultaneously in separate editions for adults and children.\n\nThe novel is narrated in the first-person perspective by Christopher John Francis Boone, a 15-year-old boy who describes himself as \"a mathematician with some behavioural difficulties\" living in Swindon, Wiltshire. Although Christopher's condition is not stated, the book's blurb refers to Asperger syndrome, high-functioning autism, or savant syndrome. In July 2009, Haddon wrote on his blog that \"\"Curious Incident\" is not a book about Asperger's... if anything it's a novel about difference, about being an outsider, about seeing the world in a surprising and revealing way. The book is not specifically about any specific disorder,\" and that he, Haddon, is not an expert on autism spectrum disorder or Asperger syndrome.\n\nThe book uses prime numbers to number the chapters, rather than the conventional successive numbers.\n\nChristopher John Francis Boone a fifteen-year-old boy with an autism spectrum condition, lives with his father, who has told him that his mother, Judy, died two years ago. The boy discovers the dead body of the neighbour's dog, Wellington, speared by a garden fork. Mrs Shears, the dog's owner, calls the police, and Christopher comes under suspicion. When a policeman touches him, he hits the policeman, and is arrested, then released with a police caution. He decides to investigate the dog's death, despite his father's orders to stay out of other people's business. He is severely limited by his fears and difficulties when interpreting the world around him. Throughout his adventures, Christopher records his experiences in a book, which he calls a \"murder mystery novel\". During his investigation, Christopher meets people whom he has never before encountered, even though they live on the same street, including the elderly Mrs Alexander, who informs Christopher that his mother had an affair with Mr Shears and had been with him for a long time.\n\nChristopher's father, Ed, discovers the book and confiscates it after a brief fight with the boy. While searching for the confiscated book, Christopher uncovers a trove of letters which his mother wrote to him, dated after her supposed death, which his father has also hidden. He is so shocked by his father lying about his mother's death that he is unable to move, curls up on the bed, vomits and groans for several hours until his father returns home. Ed realizes that Christopher has read the letters and cleans him up. He then confesses that he had indeed lied about Judy's death and also that it was he who killed Wellington, stating that it was a mistake resulting from his anger after a heated argument with Mrs Shears. Christopher, having lost all trust in his father and fearing that Ed might try to kill him since he had already killed the dog, decides to live with his mother and runs away. He remembers his mother's address from the letters and embarks on an adventurous trip to London, where his mother lives with Mr Shears.\n\nAfter a long and event-filled journey, evading policemen and feeling ill from the overwhelmingly large amount of information and stimuli from the trains and crowds around him, he finally finds his way to his mother and Mr Shears's home, and waits outside until they arrive. Judy is delighted that Christopher has come to her; she is upset that Ed told Christopher that she was dead. Mr Shears does not want Christopher living with them and never did. Very soon after arriving, Christopher wants to return to Swindon in order to take his mathematics A-level. His mother leaves Mr Shears, their relationship having broken down because of their conflict about Christopher and Mr Shears's rejection of Christopher. Judy then moves into a rented room in Swindon. After an argument with Ed, she agrees to let Ed meet Christopher for daily brief visits. Christopher remains terrified of his father and makes repeated attempts to prevent him from talking. He hopes Ed will be imprisoned for killing Wellington, although his mother explains that for this to happen, Mrs Shears would have to press charges.\n\nThe story ends with Ed getting Christopher a Golden Retriever puppy, whom Christopher gets to name, and promising that he will rebuild trust with Christopher slowly, \"no matter how long it takes\". Christopher asserts that he will take further A-level exams and attend university. He completes his mathematics A-level with top grades despite having eaten and slept very little. Earlier in the story he talks about wanting to become an astronaut, but at the end he declares that his goal is to become a scientist. The book ends with Christopher optimistic about his future, having solved the mystery of the murdered dog, gone to London on his own, found his mother, written a book about his adventures, and achieved an A in his A-level maths exam.\n\n\nIn a June 2003 interview with NPR's Terry Gross on her program \"Fresh Air\", Haddon said about Christopher, \"If he were diagnosed, he would be diagnosed as having Asperger's syndrome, which is a form of autism. I suppose you'd call it high-function autism in that he can function on, you know, a day-to-day basis, in a kind of rudimentary way. But he has a serious difficulty with life in that he really doesn't empathize with other human beings. He can't read their faces. He can't put himself in their shoes. And he can't understand anything more than the literal meaning of whatever's said to him, although I'm very careful in the book not to actually use the word 'Asperger's' or 'autism.' ... Because I don't want him to be labelled, and because, as with most people who have a disability, I don't think it's necessarily the most important thing about him... And as a good friend of mine said after reading the book, a friend who is himself a mathematician, it's not a novel about a boy who has Asperger's syndrome; it's a novel about a young mathematician who has some strange behavioural problems. And I think that's right.\"\n\nHaddon added, in the conversation with Terry Gross, \"I have to say honestly that I did more research about the London Underground and the inside of Swindon Railway Station, where some of the novel takes place, than I did about Asperger's syndrome. I gave him kind of nine or 10 rules that he would live his life by, and then I didn't read any more about Asperger's because I think there is no typical person who has Asperger's syndrome, and they're as large and diverse a group of people as any other group in society. And the important thing is that I did a lot of imagining, that I did a lot of putting myself into his shoes in trying to make him come alive as a human being rather than getting him right, whatever that might mean.\"\n\nHaddon states on his website that, although he had read \"a handful of newspaper and magazine articles about, or by, people with Asperger's and autism\" in preparation for writing the book, he knows \"very little\" about Asperger's syndrome and that Christopher Boone is inspired by two different people. According to Haddon, none of these people can be labelled as having a disability. Haddon added that he \"slightly regret[s]\" that the term Asperger's syndrome appeared on the cover of his novel. In 2010, in an interview with \"The Independent\", he was described as \"now thoroughly irritated that the word Asperger's appeared on subsequent editions of the novel, because now everyone imagines that he is an expert and he keeps getting phone calls asking him to appear at lectures.\"\n\nIn a critical essay on the novel, Vivienne Muller quotes some praise by experts on disability theory: \"In its presentation of Christopher's everyday experiences of the society in which he lives, the narrative offers a rich canvas of experiences for an ethnographic study of this particular cognitive condition, and one which places a positive spin on the syndrome. The reader in this instance acts as ethnographer, invited to see what Mark Osteen claims is a 'quality in autistic lives that is valuable in and of itself' (cited in [S.] Adams 2005, p.1). Along similar lines, [Alex] McClimens writes that Haddon's novel is 'an ethnographic delight' and that 'Haddon's achievement is to have written a novel that turns on the central character's difference without making that difference a stigmatising characteristic' (2005, p.24).\" Muller adds that the novel \"works with a strong sense of the disabled speaking subject, drawing readers into Christopher's cognitive/corporeal space through an incremental layering of his perspectives and reactions... The narrative also bristles with diagrams, maps, drawings, stories, texts that inform Christopher's lexicon for mapping meaning in a world of bewildering signs and sounds.\" She also admires such elements as \"the digressive stream-of-connectedness-and-disconnectedness way in which Christopher writes and thinks; the obsessive focus on minutiae; his musings about why animals behave the way they do; his quasi philosophizing on death and life and the afterlife; his ambition to be an astronaut...\"\n\nIn a survey of children's books which \"teach about emotional life,\" Laura Jana wrote, \"On the one hand, this is a story of how an undeniably quirky teenage boy clings to order, deals with a family crisis, and tries to make sense of the world as he sees it. But it also provides profound insight into a disorder—autism—that leaves those who have it struggling to perceive even the most basic of human emotions. In so doing, \"The Curious Incident\" leaves its readers with a greater appreciation of their own ability to feel, express, and interpret emotions. This mainstream literary success made its way to the top of the \"New York Times\" bestseller list for fiction at the same time it was being touted by experts in Asperger's syndrome and autism-spectrum disorder as an unrivaled fictional depiction of the inner workings of an autistic teenage boy.\"\n\nChristopher often comments on his inability to appreciate some metaphors and similes. He gives as an example a quote that he found in \"a proper novel\": \"I am veined with iron, with silver and with streaks of common mud. I cannot contract into the firm fist which those clench who do not depend on stimulus.\" Haddon told Terry Gross, \"Funnily enough, it's actually a quote from Virginia Woolf. It's Virginia Woolf on an off day, in the middle, I think, of \"The Waves\". An author whom I love actually, but who sometimes got a little too carried away.\"\n\nThe book was joint winner of the 2004 Boeke Prize, won the 2003 Whitbread Book of the Year award and sold more than two million copies. Haddon also was one of the winners of the 2004 Alex Awards, which \"honor the 10 top adult books with appeal for adolescents.\"\n\nAs well as winning the Guardian Children's Fiction Prize, Haddon earned the Book Trust teenage fiction award. \"The Curious Incident of the Dog in the Night-Time\" was also long-listed for the Man Booker Prize, and \"many observers were surprised that it did not advance to the shortlist.\" John Carey, chairman of the Booker panel of judges, told \"The Guardian\", \"We have several clashes of opinion among the judges but I found Haddon's book about a boy with Asperger's syndrome breathtaking.\"\n\nA survey in Great Britain, conducted by the BBC's literacy campaign for World Book Day, found \"Curious Incident\" to be among \"the top five happy endings, as voted on by readers\" in novels (the others were \"Pride and Prejudice\", \"To Kill a Mockingbird\", \"Jane Eyre\" and \"Rebecca\", the last of which \"Curious\" outranked).\n\n\"School Library Journal\" praised it as a \"rich and poignant novel.\" The \"San Jose Mercury News\" said, \"Haddon does something audacious here, and he does it superbly. He shows us the way consciousness orders the world, even when the world doesn't want to be ordered,\" adding that \"the great achievement of this novel is that it transcends its obvious cleverness. It's more than an exercise in narrative ingenuity. Filled with humor and pain, it verges on profundity in its examination of those things—customs, habits, language, symbols, daily routines, etc.—that simultaneously unite and separate human beings.\" A reviewer for \"The Christian Century\" described it as \"an absorbing, plausible book\": \"The reader becomes absorbed not only in the mystery of a murdered dog and a missing mom, but also in the mysterious world of an autistic child.\"\n\nA reviewer for \"The Atlanta Journal-Constitution\" wrote that the story is \"a touching evolution, one that Haddon scripts with tenderness and care... a unique window into the mind of a boy who thinks a little differently, but like many kids his age, doesn't quite know how to feel.\" Professor Roger Soder called it \"visceral\" and a \"delightful story,\" declaring, \"All of us in our Spokane Book Club are special education professionals and so have considerable experience with kids with this disability, and we found the story believable.\"\n\nAlex McClimens, whom Muller quoted above, also wrote, \"This magnificent essay in communication is compulsory reading for anyone with the slightest interest in autistic spectrum disorders. This book is also required reading for those who simply enjoy a fascinating story... we are offered a first person narrative to match anything by contemporary writers. Mark Haddon has created a true literary character and his handling of the teenage Asperger's heroic adventure is brilliantly crafted. He uses the literal mind-set of his hero to mask the true direction of the plot.\" Reviewer Paul Moorehead calls the book \"a fairly ripping adventure story\" and writes, \"It's also quite a feat of writing. The actual use of language is somewhat austere—an unavoidable consequence of having a boy with autism as a narrator—but it has its own beauty, and it works. So persuasive and so effective is the construction of Christopher, not only is he a character you're rooting for, he's also the character in the story you understand the best. It's startling how believably and comfortably this story puts you into what you might have thought were likely to be some pretty alien shoes.\"\n\nReviewer David Ellis, naming \"Curious Incident\" an \"ambitious and innovative novel,\" wrote that Haddon \"manages to avoid the opposing pitfalls of either offending people with autism and their families or turning Christopher into an object of pity. Instead of becoming the focus of the plot, the autism enhances it. The unemotional descriptions amplify many moments of observational comedy, and misfortunes are made extremely poignantly.\" He concludes that Christopher's story is \"far more enjoyable and likely to stay with you for far longer than any medical textbook.\"\n\nThe novel was selected as a recommended book for the 2006 Galveston Reads program, a literacy encouragement program in Galveston County, Texas. Kimball Brizendine, the Mayor of Friendswood, issued a proclamation declaring \"Galveston County Reads Day\" and encouraging \"all citizens, teens to seniors\" to read the novel. Five days later, he retracted the statement, declaring that it was \"not [his] intention to endorse this readership [\"sic\"] for our younger readers.\" The journal \"American Libraries\" reported, \"City Council member Chris Peden went a step further, asserting to the January 28 \"Galveston County Daily News\" that while he hadn't read \"Curious Incident\" in its entirety, he had noted that the 'F word' appeared on page four and that 'later in the book, the [lead character] says there is no God and there is no life after death. Clearly, these are not ideas we should promote to kids'.\"\n\nIn August, 2007, some parents in Bryan, Texas, \"were appalled to see what their kids were reading\" and protested the inclusion of the book in high school libraries, with one parent claiming that \"Curious Incident\" and another book (\"Catalyst\" by Laurie Halse Anderson) were \"unsuitable for not just some but all high school students.\"\n\nA stage adaptation, by Simon Stephens and directed by Marianne Elliott, premiered at the National Theatre on 2 August 2012. It starred Luke Treadaway as Christopher, Nicola Walker as his mother Judy, Paul Ritter as his father Ed, Una Stubbs as Mrs Alexander and Niamh Cusack as Siobhan. The production, which ran until late October 2012, was broadcast live to cinemas worldwide on 6 September 2012 through the National Theatre Live programme.\n\nThe show transferred to the Apollo Theatre in Shaftesbury Avenue, London, from March 2013. On 19 December 2013, during a performance of \"The Curious Incident\" at the Apollo, parts of the ceiling fell down injuring around 80 of the over 700 patrons inside. The production re-opened at the Gielgud Theatre on 24 June 2014. The new West End cast was led by Sion Daniel Young as Christopher Boone, with Rebecca Lacey as Siobhan, Nicolas Tennant as Ed, Mary Stockley as Judy, Jacqueline Clarke as Mrs Alexander, Indra Ové as Mrs Shears, Stephen Beckett as Roger Shears, Matthew Trevannion as Mr Thompson, Pearl Mackie as No. 40/Punk Girl, Sean McKenzie as Reverend Peters and Kaffe Keating plays alternate Christopher. They were joined by Mark Rawlings, Penelope McGhie, Naomi Said and Simon Victor.\n\nAn adaptation and translation into Spanish by María Renée Prudencio played at the Teatro de los Insurgentes in Mexico City in June 2014. The character of Christopher was played by Luis Gerardo Méndez and by Alfonso Dosal on alternate days. An Israeli adaptation (translation into Hebrew by Daniel Efrat) has been staged at the Beit Lessin Theater in Tel Aviv since March 2014, starring Nadav Netz as Christopher. Netz won the Best Actor category at the 2015 Israeli Theater Awards for the role.\n\nThe film rights for the novel were optioned by Brad Grey and Brad Pitt for Warner Brothers. In 2011 Steve Kloves was attached to write and direct the project, but as of 2018 it has not yet been produced.\n\n"}
{"id": "314538", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=314538", "title": "Tianlong", "text": "Tianlong\n\nTianlong (; lit. \"heavenly dragon\") is a flying dragon in Chinese mythology, a star in Chinese astrology, and a proper name.\n\nThe term \"tianlong\" combines \"tian\" \"heaven\" and \"long\" \"dragon\". Since \"tian\" literally means \"heaven; the heavens; sky\" or figuratively \"Heaven; God; gods\", \"tianlong\" can denote \"heavenly dragon; celestial dragon\" or \"holy dragon; divine dragon\".\n\nTianlong 天龍 is homophonous with another name in Chinese folklore. Tianlong 天聾 \"Heavenly Deaf\" (with the character \"long\" \"deaf\" combining the \"ear radical\" and a \"long\" 龍 phonetic element) and \"Diya\" 地啞 \"Earthly Dumb\" are legendary attendants to Wenchang 文昌, the patron deity of literature.\n\nFrom originally denoting \"heavenly dragon\", \"Tianlong\" 天龍 semantically developed meanings as Buddhist \"heavenly Nāgas\" or \"Devas and Nāgas\", \"centipede\", and \"proper names\" of stars, people, and places.\n\nAmong Chinese classic texts, \"tian\" \"heaven\" and \"long\" \"dragon\" were first used together in Zhou Dynasty (1122 BCE – 256 BCE) writings, but the word \"tianlong\" was not recorded until the Han Dynasty (207 BCE – 220 CE).\n\nThe ancient \"Yijing\" \"Book of Changes\" exemplifies using \"tian\" \"heaven\" and \"long\" \"dragon\" together. \"Qian\" 乾 \"The Creative\", the first hexagram, says (tr. Wilhelm 1967:9), \"Nine in the fifth place means: Flying dragons in the heavens. It furthers one to see the great man.\" The \"Commentary on the Decision\" (彖傳, tr. Wilhelm 1967:371) explains, \"Because the holy man is clear as to the end and the beginning, as to the way in which each of the six stages completes itself in its own time, he mounts on them toward heaven as though on six dragons.\" And the \"Commentary on the Images\" (象傳, tr. Wilhelm 1967:371) says, \"'Flying dragon in the heavens.' This shows the great man at work.\"\n\nThe earliest usage of \"tianlong\" 天龍 \"heavenly dragon\", according to the \"Hanyu Da Cidian\", is in the \"Xinxu\" 新序 \"New Prefaces\" by Liu Xiang (79–8 BCE). It records a story (Yuan 2006:213) about Zigao, the Duke of Ye, who professed to love dragons. After he carved and painted dragon images throughout his house, a [天龍] heavenly dragon [or \"fulong\" 夫龍 in some editions] came to visit, but Ye was scared and ran away. \n\nThe \"Fangyan\" 方言 dictionary (12) by Yang Xiong (53 BCE – 18 CE) has another early usage of \"tian\" and \"long\". It defines \"panlong\" 蟠龍 \"coiled dragon\" as 未陞天龍, syntactically meaning either \"Dragons which do not yet ascend to heaven\" (Visser 1913:73) or \"Heavenly Dragons which do not yet ascend\" (Carr 1990:113).\n\n\"Tianlong\" Heavenly Dragon names both the Western constellation Draco and a star in the Chinese constellation Azure Dragon.\n\n\"Tianlongza\" 天龍座 \"Heavenly Dragon Seat/Constellation\" is the Chinese translation of Draco (from Latin \"Dragon\"), a constellation near the North Celestial Pole. The (1578 CE) \"Bencao Gangmu\" pharmacopeia's entry for \"long\" \"dragon\" describes (Read 1934:301) \"a pearl under its chin\", and Read notes, \nThe constellation Draco has the appearance of guarding and encircling the northern pole which is the centre of the movement of the fixed stars. The Chinese paintings of the Dragon straining after a mystical \"Pearl\" undoubtedly relate to this relationship to the North Pole Star, though other explanations are given for this. (1934:306-7) \n\n\"Tianlong\" 天龍 \"Heavenly Dragon\" is the 3rd star in \"Fangxiu\" 房宿 \"Room (Chinese constellation)\" and corresponds to the Western constellation Scorpius. \"Room\" is the 4th of the Twenty-eight mansions in the Azure Dragon, which is one of the celestial Four Symbols. Wolfram Eberhard (1968:243) notes, \"When the dragon star appeared in the sky it was customary to make a sacrifice supplicating for rain,\" and this springtime dragon festival occurs on the 2nd day of the 2nd month. \n\nThe \"Bencao Gangmu\" entry for \"wugong\" 蜈蚣 \"centipede\" lists \"tianlong\" 天龍 \"heavenly dragon\" as an alternate name. Li Shizhen's commentary reviews earlier Chinese commentators and texts. The \"Zhuangzi\" (2, tr. Mair 1994:20–21) says, \"People eat meat, deer eat grass, [蝍且] giant centipedes savor snakes, hawks and crows relish mice.\" The \"Huainanzi\" (17, tr. Carr 1990:111) says, \"The [騰蛇] ascending snake can drift in the mist, yet it is endangered by the [蝍蛆] centipede.\" The \"Erya\" dictionary (15) defines \"jili\" 蒺蔾 \"thorns; puncture vine; bramble\" as \"jieju\" 蝍蛆 \"centipede; cricket\"; which Guo Pu's commentary says resembles a \"huang\" 蝗 \"locust\" with a large abdomen, long horns, and which eats snake brains. Although \"jieju\" can also mean \"xishuai\" 蟋蟀 \"cricket\", Li concludes it means the snake-controlling \"wugong\" \"centipede\" that the \"Fangyan\" dictionary (11) also calls \"maxian\" 馬蚿 \"horse/giant millipede\" or \"juqu\" 蛆蟝. According to Eberhard (1968:159), centipedes were snake predators, and \"the enmity between snake and centipede occurs in many folktales and customs.\"\n\nIn Chinese Buddhist terminology, \"tianlong\" means either \"heavenly Nāgas (dragon gods)\" or \"Devas (heavenly gods) and Nāgas\".\n\nFirst, \"tianlong\" 天龍 means \"heavenly dragon/nāga\" as the first of four nāga classes in Mahayana tradition (tr. Visser 1913:21-2).\n\nHangzhou Tianlong 杭州天龍 \"Heavenly Dragon from Hangzhou\" was a 9th-century Chan Buddhist master who enlightened Juzhi Yizhi by holding up one finger. The \"Blue Cliff Record\" (tr. Cleary 1977:123-8) calls this \"Chu Ti's One-Finger Ch'an\" kōan.\nSecond, \"tianlong\" 天龍 translates Sanskrit \"deva-nāga\" \"Devas and Nāgas\", the 2 highest categories of the \"Tianlong Babu\" 天龍八部 \"8 kinds of beings that protect the Dharma\". The lower 6 categories are \"yecha\" 夜叉 \"Yaksha; cannibalistic devils; nature spirits\", \"gantapo\" 乾闥婆 \"Gandharva; half-ghost music masters\", \"axiuluo\" 阿修羅 \"Asura; evil and violent demigods\", \"jialouluo\" 迦樓羅 \"Garuda; golden bird-like demons that eat dragons\", \"jinnaluo\" 緊那羅 \"Kinnara; half-human half-bird celestial music masters\", and \"maholuluojia\" 摩睺羅迦 \"Mahoraga; earthly snake spirits\".\n\n\"Tianlong Babu\" 天龍八部 is also the title of a 1963 wuxia novel by Jin Yong, translated as English \"Demi-Gods and Semi-Devils\". This Chinese title is further used by movies, television series, and a Massively multiplayer online role-playing game.\n\nTianlong is a common name in Standard Chinese. Tianlongshan 天龍山 \"Heavenly Dragon Mountain\", which is located near Taiyuan in Shanxi, is famous for the Tianlongshan Shiku 天龍山石窟 Grottoes. The commercial name Tianlong \"Heavenly Dragon\" is used by companies, hotels, and gungfu schools.\nJapanese \"Tenryū\" 天龍 or 天竜, a loanword from Chinese \"Tianlong\", is a comparable proper name. A famous example is \"Tenryū-ji\" 天龍寺 \"Heavenly Dragon Temple\" in Kyoto, which is headquarters of the Tenryū-ji Branch of the Rinzai sect. Tenryū place names include a waterway (Tenryū River 天竜川), a city (Tenryū, Shizuoka 天竜市), and a village (Tenryū, Nagano 天龍村). Further examples include Imperial Japanese Navy names (Japanese cruiser Tenryū 天龍), and personal names (Genichiro Tenryu 天龍源一郎, a wrestler).\n\n"}
{"id": "13093426", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13093426", "title": "Uptown Oakland", "text": "Uptown Oakland\n\nUptown Oakland or The Uptown is a neighborhood in Downtown Oakland, California. Its boundaries are ill-defined, but most definitions include the area between 27th Street to the north, San Pablo Avenue to the west, City Center to the south, and Harrison St to the east. The neighborhood has become an important entertainment district in recent years.\n\nThe area near 20th Street and Broadway had been Oakland's main shopping district in the mid-20th century. Several buildings from that era remain, including the Capwell's department store, which later became Sears and is currently being developed into a mixed-use retail and office building called \"Uptown Station;\" the I. Magnin department store; the Paramount Theater; and the Fox Oakland Theatre. The Payless Drug Store and Market located at Telegraph Ave. and 20th St, housed the drug store small produce markets and seafood sellers. It included a SAAG's sausage counter and even a USO branch.\nThis structure was demolished in the early 1960s to construct a parking structure for Capwell's Department store. The area was home to one of the original Kwik Way hamburger outlets and also at Broadway and Grand Ave the Oakland branch of Breuners furniture.\n\nWest of Telegraph Avenue, the neighborhood was for many years largely made up of parking lots and garages. The area has gone through several failed urban renewal projects and proposals, including proposals for a shopping mall, an entertainment district, high-rise housing, and a professional baseball stadium. The area now contains several attractive high-rise apartment buildings.\n\nDuring Jerry Brown's time as Mayor (1999-2007) The Uptown District was deemed the Entertainment center of the city. Redevelopment has taken place by large upscale apartments and restaurants, bringing some much needed money and foot traffic into the area. The centerpiece has been the city government's 10K program, an effort to bring 10,000 additional residents to the downtown area. The largest of the new apartment complexes is a five-story, three-building apartment complex called \"The Uptown\" built by Forest City Enterprises, including a new dog-friendly park called Fox Square. A new surface street, Rashida Muhammad Street, was named after the late community activist who died of lung cancer in 2006. Alice Walker immortalized Rashida Muhammad's (aka Dessie X. Woods) story in her collection of essays \"Living by the Word\". The street was built with the stated goal of The Uptown project of enhancing and building a new community in the area. This complex also features the \"Remember Them\" sculpture by Mario Chiodo, a local artist. The sculpture, when it is complete, will be one of the largest bronze sculptures in the United States. The 25 humanitarians honored in this sculpture include Oskar Schindler, Maya Angelou, Ruby Bridges, Cesar Chavez, Thich Nhat Hanh, and Mother Teresa.\n\nNumerous bars and restaurants have opened between 16th Street and Grand Avenue. Retail continues to add to the landscape of the Uptown District.\n\nIn addition to becoming a nightlife destination for East Bay residents, the area has developed well culturally overall. The area now includes many cafes, bakeries, and galleries, as well as being a central hub for the other bars and restaurants located in the surrounding neighborhoods.\n\nA large Sears department store was located in the center of the Uptown district, between Telegraph Avenue, 20th Street, and Broadway. The store closed in 2014. The building was bought by Uber and is being branded as \"Uptown Station\".\n\nWhat is commonly called \"First Friday\" or \"Art Murmur\" has given way to a vibrant art scene in Oakland which mainly centers around the Uptown District. Some of the first galleries to open in this area included 21 Grand, the defunct Mama Buzz Cafe (now the Telegraph Beer Garden), and Rock Paper Scissors (art collective and store.) More recent notable galleries include Krowswork, Mercury 20 Gallery, Johansson Projects and Creative Growth. In September 2011 Project Bandaloop performed the premier of an aerial dance piece called Bound(less) on The Great Wall of Oakland, and in May 2013 the first annual Oakland Internet Cat Video Festival took place on the Great Wall.\n\nTwo Mile Wines has produced wines in the Uptown district since 2009, pushing urban winemaking into the heart of Oakland and First Friday. More recently, Oakland Spirits Company has started producing gins, brandies, and other spirits in the neighborhood, demonstrating that a mix of art, manufacturing, and trades can thrive amidst rapid gentrification.\n\nUptown is in the so-called Oaksterdam district of medical marijuana clubs which have contributed to a resurgence in retail and pedestrian activity in the area.\n\nUptown is also the home to the Oakland Ice Center, which houses youth and adult amateur hockey leagues, figure skating lessons, and public skating sessions.\n\nThe tallest building in the Uptown district is the Gothic Revival Cathedral Building.\n\nUptown includes a number of classic Art Deco buildings, although some are now in disrepair. These include:\nThe space above Newberrys housed Sweets Ballroom venue which hosted many\nbig bands and jazz greats from the '30s through the '60s. Some of the performers were Duke Ellington, Cab Calloway, Ella Fitzgerald, Jimmie Lunceford and many \nothers. The ballroom was locally owned by the Sweet family for the whole period.\n\nThe 19th Street/Oakland BART station is in Uptown, in a subway under Broadway. Oakland's Art Moderne Greyhound bus depot is on the other side of the neighborhood, on San Pablo Avenue at Interstate 980. AC Transit operates the Uptown Transit Center and numerous local buses, including a free weekday shuttle called \"The B\" that connects the Uptown district with Old Oakland, Chinatown, City Center, Lake Merritt, and Jack London Square.\n\n\n"}
