{"id": "36461660", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36461660", "title": "Abraham Coles", "text": "Abraham Coles\n\nAbraham Coles (December 26, 1813 – May 3, 1891) was an American physician, translator, author and poet from New Jersey. He published \"Dies Irae\" (1859), \"Stabat Mater Dolorosa\" (1865), \"Stabat Mater Speciosa\" (1866), \"Old Gems in New Settings\" (1866), \"The Microcosm\" (1866, 1881), \"The Evangel in Verse\" (1874) and \"The Light of the World\" (1884).\n\n"}
{"id": "3906419", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3906419", "title": "Active stretching", "text": "Active stretching\n\nActive stretching eliminates force and its adverse effects from stretching procedures. Active stretching stimulates and prepares muscles for use during exercise. Active stretches not only stretches the muscles and tissues, but prepares the muscles for the action by activating and warming them up. \n\nBefore describing the principles on which active stretching is based, the terms agonist and antagonist must be clarified. Agonist refers to actively contracting muscle or muscles while their opposing muscles are termed antagonists.\n\nThe neuromechanisms conceptualized by Sir Charles Sherrington (1857 - 1956), “the philosopher of the nervous system”, as applied to active stretching are:\n\n\nForce applied to a muscle stimulates the muscle spindles which activate protective reflexes resulting in contraction of that muscle. (Such as the knee jerk response of neurological testing procedures.)\n\nWhile necessary for sports and ordinary motions, this protective reaction is counterproductive for stretching, i.e., lengthening muscles.\n\n6. Invented in 1998 By Thomas Sheehan of Columbia University.\n\nMunrow, A. D. PURE AND APPLIED GYMNASTICS. London: Edward Arnold., 1962.\n\nJean M. Peters & Howard K. Peters THE FLEXIBILITY MANUAL Sports Kinetics Inc. 1995\n\nBlackburn, S. E., L. G. Portney. Electromyographic Activity of Back Musculature During Willams’ Flexion Exercises. PHYSICAL THERAPY, Journal of the American Physical Therapy Association. June 1981.\n\n"}
{"id": "41323325", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41323325", "title": "Advance care planning", "text": "Advance care planning\n\nAdvance care planning is a process that enables individuals to make plans about their future health care. Advance care plans provide direction to healthcare professionals when a person is not in a position to either make and/or communicate their own healthcare choices. Advance care planning is applicable to adults at all stages of life. Participation in advance care planning has been shown to reduce stress and anxiety for patients and their families, and lead to improvements in end of life care.\n\nThe main components of advance care planning include the nomination of a substitute decision maker, and the completion of an advance care directive.\n\nAdvance care planning is applicable to all adults in all stages of life. Advance care planning aims to allow people to live well, and when death approaches, die in accordance with their personal values. Advance care planning is only applicable when the individual cannot make and/or communicate decisions about what they want in relation to their healthcare. If advance care planning has occurred, patients who have lost capacity or the ability to communicate or both, are able to continue to have a say in their medical care. This has been shown to improve end of life care, and provide improved outcomes for both patients and their surviving relatives.\n\nWhile applicable to all stages of life, it is particularly applicable to end-of-life care decision making, since approximately 1 in 4 people lose decision making capacity when approaching the end of their life.\n\nFederal and state legislation in the US, Australia, Canada and the UK supports the right of patients to refuse unwanted medical treatments. People can also express their preferences through written advance directives or by advising their appointed substitute decision maker about their wishes for when they are unable to make or communicate these decisions/wishes themselves.\n\nThere are two methods by which the communication of an individual's preferences can be known. These are:\n\nA substitute decision maker makes decisions on behalf of an individual only when that individual does not have the capacity to make/communicate decisions for themselves.\n\nThere are a number of methods by which a substitute decision maker can be identified. The ideal method is the appointment of a person using a statutory document. In the absence of a statutory document the substitute decision maker may be a \"person responsible\" as listed in order of authority in legislation.\n\nA substitute decision maker can be chosen by an individual following completion of relevant paperwork, can be assigned to the person by law in the absence of a chosen substitute decision maker (e.g. family member or carer), or can be appointed for the person (e.g. guardian appointed by a guardianship tribunal)\n\nSubstitute decision makers make decisions based on the principles of either substituted judgement or best interests. Substituted judgement is when the substitute decision maker arrives at a decision based on the best approximation of what they believe the person would want. This decision should be informed by both the known wishes of the person and the best available healthcare advice. Best interests decision making requires the substitute decision maker to focus on the patient's best interests.\n\nMany, but not all, jurisdictions have legislation supporting the appointment of a substitute decision maker through a statutory document. They have different names depending on the jurisdiction:\n\nAn advance care directive is a document detailing an individual's health care preferences. This may include personal values and life goals, describe circumstances the person would find unacceptable, identify preferences relating to specific medical interventions, or a combination of these.\n\nAdvance care directives may be written on specifically designed forms, but can also take the form of a written letter or statement. Inclusion of a doctor in the completion of an advance care directive will assist in ensuring that an individual's wishes are clear and written in a manner that is easy for substitute decision makers and/or medical staff to interpret and follow them in the future. Having a physician witness the document will reinforce this by showing future medical staff that the document contains information about informed decisions due to the assistance of a physician.\n\n"}
{"id": "166146", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=166146", "title": "Advance healthcare directive", "text": "Advance healthcare directive\n\nAn advance healthcare directive, also known as living will, personal directive, advance directive, medical directive or advance decision, is a legal document in which a person specifies what actions should be taken for their health if they are no longer able to make decisions for themselves because of illness or incapacity. In the U.S. it has a legal status in itself, whereas in some countries it is legally persuasive without being a legal document.\n\nA living will is one form of advance directive, leaving instructions for treatment. Another form is a specific type of power of attorney or health care proxy, in which the person authorizes someone (an agent) to make decisions on their behalf when they are incapacitated. People are often encouraged to complete both documents to provide comprehensive guidance regarding their care, although they may be combined into a single form. An example of combination documents includes the Five Wishes in the United States. The term \"living will\" is also the commonly recognised vernacular in many countries, especially the U.K.\n\nAdvance directives were created in response to the increasing sophistication and prevalence of medical technology. Numerous studies have documented critical deficits in the medical care of the dying; it has been found to be unnecessarily prolonged, painful, expensive, and emotionally burdensome to both patients and their families.\n\nThe living will is the oldest form of advance directive. It was first proposed by an Illinois attorney, Luis Kutner, in a law journal in 1969. Kutner drew from existing estate law, by which an individual can control property affairs after death (i.e., when no longer available to speak for himself or herself) and devised a way for an individual to express his or her health care desires when no longer able to express current healthcare wishes. Because this form of \"will\" was to be used while an individual was still alive (but no longer able to make decisions) it was dubbed the \"living will\". In the U.S., The Patient Self-Determination Act (PSDA) went into effect in December 1991, and required healthcare providers (primarily hospitals, nursing homes and home health agencies) to give patients information about their rights to make advance directives under state law.\n\nA living will usually provides specific directives about the course of treatment healthcare providers and caregivers are to follow. In some cases a living will may forbid the use of various kinds of burdensome medical treatment. It may also be used to express wishes about the use or foregoing of food and water, if supplied via tubes or other medical devices. The living will is used only if the individual has become unable to give informed consent or refusal due to incapacity. A living will can be very specific or very general. An example of a statement sometimes found in a living will is: \"If I suffer an incurable, irreversible illness, disease, or condition and my attending physician determines that my condition is terminal, I direct that life-sustaining measures that would serve only to prolong my dying be withheld or discontinued.\"\n\nMore specific living wills may include information regarding an individual's desire for such services such as analgesia (pain relief), antibiotics, hydration, feeding, and the use of ventilators or cardiopulmonary resuscitation. However, studies have also shown that adults are more likely to complete these documents if they are written in everyday language and less focused on technical treatments.\n\nHowever, by the late 1980s, public advocacy groups became aware that many people remained unaware of advance directives and even fewer actually completed them. In part, this was seen as a failure of health care providers and medical organizations to promote and support the use of these documents. The public’s response was to press for further legislative support. The most recent result was the Patient Self-Determination Act of 1990, which attempted to address this awareness problem by requiring health care institutions to better promote and support the use of advance directives.\n\nLiving wills proved to be very popular, and by 2007, 41% of Americans had completed a living will. In response to public needs, state legislatures soon passed laws in support of living wills in virtually every state in the union.\n\nHowever, as living wills began to be better recognized, key deficits were soon discovered. Most living wills tended to be limited in scope and often failed to fully address presenting problems and needs. Further, many individuals wrote out their wishes in ways that might conflict with quality medical practice. Ultimately, it was determined that a living will alone might be insufficient to address many important health care decisions. This led to the development of what some have called \"second generation\" advance directives – the \"health care proxy appointment\" or \"medical power of attorney.\"\n\nLiving wills also reflect a moment in time, and may therefore need regular updating to ensure that the correct course of action can be chosen.\n\nAs before, the next generation advance directive was drawn from existing law – specifically from business law. Power of attorney statutes have existed in the United States since the days of \"common law\" (i.e., laws brought from England to the United States during the colonial period). These early powers of attorney allowed an individual to name someone to act in their stead. Drawing upon these laws, \"durable powers of attorney for health care\" and \"healthcare proxy appointment\" documents were created and codified in law, allowing an individual to appoint someone to make healthcare decisions in their behalf if they should ever be rendered incapable of making their wishes known. The appointed healthcare proxy has, in essence, the same rights to request or refuse treatment that the individual would have if still capable of making and communicating health care decisions.\nThe primary benefit of second-generation advance directives is that the appointed representative can make real-time decisions in actual circumstances, as opposed to advance decisions framed in hypothetical situations, as recorded in a living will. This new advance directive was heartily endorsed by the U.S. public, and supporting legislation soon followed in virtually all states.\n\nEventually, however, deficiencies in \"second-generation\" advance directives were also soon noted. Primarily, individuals faced problems similar to those that handicapped living wills – knowing what to tell the proxy decision-maker about one's wishes in a meaningful way. Studies found most of what appointed proxies are told is too vague for meaningful interpretation. In the absence of meaningful information, family and physician \"guesswork\" is found to be inaccurate as much as 76% of the time. While a study comparing next-of-kin decisions on behalf of an incapacitated person, (who later recovered) found that these surrogates chose correctly 68% of the time overall. This continuing problem led to the development of what might be called \"third generation\" advance directives.\n\nThird generation advance directives were designed to contain enriched content to assist individuals and their appointed agents, families, and physicians to better understand and honor their wishes. The first of the third-generation advance directives was the Values History by Doukas and McCullough, created at the Georgetown University School of Medicine, first published in 1988, and then more widely cited in an article in 1991. The Values History is a \"two-part advance directive instrument that elicits patient values about terminal medical care and therapy-specific directives.\" The goal of this advance directive is to move away from a focus on specific treatments and medical procedures to a focus on patient values and personal goals. Another values-based project was later published by Lambert, Gibson, and Nathanson at the Institute of Public Law, University of New Mexico School of Law in 1990. It continues to be made available via the Hospice and Palliative Care Federation. One persistent challenge of third generation-based values documents is to show a linkage between the elicited values and goals with medical care wishes, although studies have demonstrated that values regarding financial and psychological burden are strong motivators in not wanting a broad array of end-of-life therapies.\n\nThe next widely recognized third generation advance directive is the Medical Directive, created by Emanuel and Emanuel of Massachusetts General Hospital and Harvard Medical School. It is a six-page document that provides six case scenarios for advance medical decision-making. The scenarios are each associated with a roster of commonly considered medical procedures and interventions, allowing the individual to decide in advance which treatments are wanted or not wanted under the circumstances. Several criticisms regarding this advance directive have been expressed. Primarily, it prompts individuals to make medical treatment decisions, which they are typically not equipped to make.\n\nPerhaps the best known third-generation advance directive is the Five Wishes directive. This document was developed in collaboration with multiple experts with funding from the Robert Wood Johnson foundation, and is distributed by the organization Aging with Dignity. The document was endorsed by Mother Teresa of the Sisters of Calcutta and by the Chief Justice of the Florida state supreme court. The document meets statutory criteria in 42 states.\n\nThe most recent third-generation advance directive is the Lifecare Advance Directive. In creating this document, researchers reviewed more than 6,500 articles from medical, legal, sociological, and theological sources. The conclusion was that advance directives needed to be based more on \"health outcome states\" than on rosters of medical treatments and legal jargon. Building upon the insights gleaned from the literature review, an advance directive document created, tested in a study involving nearly 1,000 participants, and then comparison tested against other popular advance directive forms. The results indicated greater patient/proxy decision-making accuracy, and superior comprehensive content as compared with other documents tested. The primary criticism has been that it is very lengthy and tedious to complete.\n\nWhile some commentators suggest that any recording of one's wishes is problematic, the preponderance of experts recommend the completion of an advance directive document – especially one that includes both a living will and a proxy designation. While most of the public continue to rely upon their state's standard directive format, research demonstrates that many of these documents are too jargon laden and vague, confusing, and incomplete to adequately capture an individual's wishes, and that they focus too much on the needs of medical and legal practitioners to the exclusion of the needs of patients. Advance directive documents are increasingly available online.\n\nSome legal commentators have suggested that using a non-statutory advance directive will leave the user with a document that may not be honored. However, legal counsel for the Hastings Center for Bioethics refute this assertion. To make the best choice, individuals should consider reviewing several document styles to ensure that they complete the document that best meets their personal needs.\n\nNote: Some of the countries listed below are in the European Union, where legal systems may vary considerably from those in the U.S. \"Country reports on advance directives\" is a 2008 paper summarizing advance health care legislation in the European Union with a shorter summary for the U.S.; a 2009 paper also provides a European overview.\n\nThe laws regarding advance directives, powers of attorney, and enduring guardianships vary from state to state. In Queensland, for example, the concept of an advance health directive is defined in the \"Powers of attorney act of 1998\" and \"Guardianship and Administration act of 2000\". Tasmania has no specific legislation concerning advance healthcare directives.\n\nHealth Canada – Canada's federal health agency – has acknowledged the need for a greater investment in palliative and hospice care as the country faces a rapidly growing population of elderly and terminally ill citizens.\n\nMuch of the current focus in Canada is on advance care planning which involves encouraging individuals to reflect on and express their wishes for future care, including end-of-life care, before they become terminally ill or incapable of making decisions for themselves. A\nnumber of publicly funded initiatives exist to promote advance care planning and to encourage people to appoint \"substitute decision makers\" who make medical decisions and can give or withhold consent for medical procedures according to the patient's\npre-expressed wishes when the patient becomes incapable of doing so themselves\n\nIn 2008, The Advance Care Planning in Canada: A National Framework and Implementation Project was founded. The goal was to engage healthcare professionals and educate patients\nabout the importance of advance care planning and end of life care.\n\nPolling indicates that 96% of Canadians think that having a conversation with a loved one about planning for the end of life is important. However, the same polls show that only about 13% have actually done so, or have created an advance care plan for themselves.\nA 2014 Ipsos Reid Survey reveals that only about a third of Canadian doctors and nurses working in primary care feel comfortable discussing end of life issues with their patients. End-of-life issues in Canada have recently been highlighted due to the ongoing related debate about Physician assisted death in Canada. Former Federal Health Minister Rona Ambrose (July 15, 2013 to November 4, 2015) has stated: \"I think the starting point for me is that we still don't have the best elderly care and palliative care yet… So let's talk about making sure we have the best end-of-life care before we start talking about assisted suicide and euthanasia.\"\n\nIn England and Wales, people may make an advance directive or appoint a proxy under the Mental Capacity Act 2005. This is only for an advance refusal of treatment for when the person lacks mental capacity; to be legally binding, the advance decision must be specific about the treatment that is being refused and the circumstances in which the refusal will apply. To be valid, the person must have been competent and understood the decision when they signed the directive. Where the patient's advance decision relates to a refusal of life-prolonging treatment this must be recorded in writing and witnessed. Any advance refusal is legally binding providing that the patient is an adult, the patient was competent and properly informed when reaching the decision, it is clearly applicable to the present circumstances and there is no reason to believe that the patient has changed his or her mind. If an advance decision does not meet these criteria but appears to set out a clear indication of the patient's wishes, it will not be legally binding but should be taken into consideration in determining the patient's best interests. In June 2010, the Wealth Management Solicitors, Moore Blatch, announced that research showed demand for Living Wills had trebled in the two years previous, indicating the rising level of people concerned about the way in which their terminal illness will be managed. According to the British Government, every adult with mental capacity has the right to agree to or refuse medical treatment. In order to make their advance wishes clear, people can use a living will, which can include general statements about wishes, which are not legally binding, and specific refusals of treatment called \"advance decisions\" or \"advance directives\".\n\nOn 18 June 2009 the Bundestag passed a law on advance directives, applicable since 1 September 2009. Such law, based on the principle of the right of self-determination, provides for the assistance of a fiduciary and of the physician.\n\nOn 14 December 2017, Italian Senate officially approved a law on advance healthcare directive that came into force on 31 January 2018.\n\nControversy over end-of-life care emerged in Italy in 2006, when a terminally ill patient suffering from muscular dystrophy, Piergiorgio Welby, petitioned the courts for removal of his respirator. Debated in Parliament, no decision was reached. A doctor eventually honored Welby's wishes by removing the respirator under sedation. The physician was initially charged for violating Italy's laws against euthanasia, but was later cleared. Further debate ensued after the father of a 38-year-old woman, Eluana Englaro, petitioned the courts for permission to withdraw feeding tubes to allow her to die. Englaro had been in a coma for 17 years, following a car accident. After petitioning the courts for 10 years, authorization was granted and Englaro died in February 2009. In May 2008, apparently as a result of the recent Court of Cassation's holding in the case of Englaro, a guardianship judge in Modena, Italy used relatively new legislation to work around the lack of the advance directive legislation. The new law permitted a judicially appointed guardian (\"amministratore di sostegno\") to make decisions for an individual. Faced with a 70-year-old woman with end-stage Lou Gehrig's Disease who was petitioning the court (with the support of her family) to prevent any later use of a respirator, the judge appointed her husband as guardian with the specific duty to refuse any tracheotomy and/or respirator use if/when the patient became unable to refuse such treatment herself.\n\nIn the Netherlands, patients and potential patients can specify the circumstances under which they would want euthanasia for themselves. They do this by providing a written euthanasia directive. This helps establish the previously expressed wish of the patient even if the patient is no longer able to communicate. However, it is only one of the factors that is taken into account. Apart from the will in writing of the patients, at least two physicians, the second being totally unrelated to the first physician in a professional matter (e.g. working in another hospital, no prior knowledge of the medical case at hand), have to agree that the patient is terminally ill and that no hope for recovery exists. \n\nIn Switzerland, there are several organizations which take care of registering patient decrees, forms which are signed by the patients declaring that in case of permanent loss of judgement (e.g., inability to communicate or severe brain damage) all means of prolonging life shall be stopped. Family members and these organizations also keep proxies which entitle their holder to enforce such patient decrees. Establishing such decrees is relatively uncomplicated.\n\nHowever, in Switzerland, a patient decree has, as of November 2008, no legally binding effects, whether concerning civil or criminal aspects. Such a decree is today merely viewed as representing the supposed will of the person with the incapability. There is, however, a revision of the Swiss Civil Code under way that aims to change this situation (intended to be article 360 of the Swiss Civil Code) by making the patient decree a legally binding document.\nAggressive medical intervention leaves nearly two million Americans confined to nursing homes, and over 1.4 million Americans remain so medically frail as to survive only through the use of feeding tubes. Of U.S. deaths, 25–55% occur in health care facilities. As many as 30,000 persons are kept alive in comatose and permanently vegetative states.\n\nCost burdens to individuals and families are considerable. A national study found that: “In 20% of cases, a family member had to quit work;” 31% lost “all or most savings” (even though 96% had insurance); and “20% reported loss of [their] major source of income.” Yet, studies indicate that 70-95% of people would rather refuse aggressive medical treatment than have their lives medically prolonged in incompetent or other poor prognosis states.\n\nAs more and more Americans experienced the burdens and diminishing benefits of invasive and aggressive medical treatment in poor prognosis states – either directly (themselves) or through a loved one – pressure began to mount to devise ways to avoid the suffering and costs associated with treatments one did not want in personally untenable situations. The first formal response was the living will.\n\nIn the United States, all states recognize some form of living wills or the designation of a health care proxy. The term \"living will\" is not officially recognized under California law, but an advance health care directive or durable power of attorney may be used for the same purpose as a living will. A \"report card\" issued by the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation in 2002 concluded that only seven states deserved an \"A\" for meeting the standards of the model Uniform Rights of the Terminally Ill Act. Surveys show that one-third of Americans say they have had to make decisions about end-of-life care for a loved one.\n\nIn Pennsylvania on November 30, 2006, Governor Edward Rendell signed into law Act 169, that provides a comprehensive statutory framework governing advance health care directives and health care decision-making for incompetent patients. As a result, health care organizations make available a \"Combined Living Will & Health Care Power of Attorney Example Form from Pennsylvania Act 169 of 2006.\"\n\nSeveral states offer living will \"registries\" where citizens can file their living will so that they are more easily and readily accessible by doctors and other health care providers. However, in recent years some of these registries, such as the one run by the Washington State Department of Health, have been shuttered by the state government because of low enrollment, lack of funds, or both.\n\nOn July 28, 2009, Barack Obama became the first United States President to announce publicly that he had a living will, and to encourage others to do the same. He told an AARP town meeting, \"So I actually think it's a good idea to have a living will. I'd encourage everybody to get one. I have one; Michelle has one. And we hope we don't have to use it for a long time, but I think it's something that is sensible.\" The announcement followed controversy surrounding proposed health care legislation that included language that would permit the payment of doctors under Medicare to counsel patients regarding living wills, sometimes referred to as the \"infamous\" page 425. Shortly afterwards, bioethicist Jacob Appel issued a call to make living wills mandatory.\n\nIndian Supreme Court on March 9, 2018 permitted living wills and passive euthanasia. The country's apex court held that the right to a dignified life extends up to the point of having a dignified death.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33289493", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33289493", "title": "Anna Salter", "text": "Anna Salter\n\nAnna Salter is an American psychologist and mystery novelist.\n\nIn 1968, Salter earned a BA in English and Philosophy from the University of North Carolina. Her Masters was in Child Development at Tufts University (1973), and her Ph.D. in Clinical Psychology and Public Practice at Harvard University (1977).\n\nSalter has an emphasis in sex crimes. She has treated the victims of sex crimes, and also has studied offenders. She has published several books and peer-reviewed articles on sex crimes, given many keynote speeches to professional and law enforcement groups, and consults with the Wisconsin Department of Corrections.\n\nAdditionally, Salter has interviewed numerous sex offenders and other criminals, compiling the videotaped interviews along with her commentary and analysis. \"Truth, Lies and Sex Offenders\" is for general audiences, and \"Sadistic Offenders: How They Think, What They Do\" is aimed at professionals and law enforcement.\n\nAs of 2011, Salter has also published four mystery novels: \"Shiny Water\", \"Fault Lines\", \"White Lies\" and \"Prison Blues\". The latter was nominated for a 2003 Edgar Award for best paperback original.\n\n"}
{"id": "50072830", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50072830", "title": "Antibody barcoding", "text": "Antibody barcoding\n\nAntibody barcoding is a protein profiling technique that has been used to analyze hundreds of proteins from small tissue samples, such as minimally invasive fine-needle aspirates from cancer tissue. Although promising, the technique has not yet been extensively proven or developed.\n\nThe method involves optical mapping of DNA sequences that are added as \"barcodes\" to antibodies attached to the cells in the sample. The method showed high reproducibility and achieved single-cell sensitivity. In addition to profiling cancer cells, the method shows promise as a clinical tool to identify pathway responses to molecularly targeted drugs and to predict drug response in patient samples.\n"}
{"id": "21210183", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21210183", "title": "Avicenna Tajik State Medical University", "text": "Avicenna Tajik State Medical University\n\nAvicenna Tajik State Medical University (ATSMU) is a public university in Tajikistan. Established in 1939, it is located in Dushanbe and named after Avicenna. It is managed by the Ministry of Health and is the only higher medical education facility in Tajikistan preparing medical personnel for the country.\n\nSince its establishment in 1939, the medical university has educated more than 35,000 highly skilled medical personnel working not only inside the country, but abroad as well. \n\nOne of the primary goals of the University is to adjust the national system of medical education - structures, contents, terms and quality to the both international standards and requirements to the quality of a professional training, that will allow Tajikistan to join the world community of medical education and provide the development of the international cooperation in the field of training and advancing the professional skill of the medical staff. The University successfully proceeds on a direction of improving the quality of the public standard of the medical education and the development of new curricula and programs according to the requirements of the World Federation for Medical Education. Great attention is being paid to the constant improvement of the quality of medical education, and the quality of training the medical staff on a whole.\n\nUniversity is considered a key scientific-methodical base of the Ministry of Health of the Republic, and the majority of achievements in the sphere of public health services of the country are directly connected with the activity of its professors. Each year the staff of the University carries out over 15000 surgical operations and over 45000 remedial and consultative actions that makes about 60% of all medical interventions to be carried out in the healthcare facilities of the city of Dushanbe. \nRealization of research activity in the field of public health is one of the most important directions of the University activity, and an occasion for pride is that ATSMU has achieved the outstanding successes in scientific sphere. So, during recent 5 years 114 PhD and Doctor Theses were defended, 4984 articles and 35 monographs were published, 157 discoveries and the interventions have been defended by the patents. \n\nThe mandate of the University is to train high-qualified medical personnel according to the needs of the population of Tajikistan. To perform this task ATSMU has 796 faculty members working in 63 chairs, where the majority are outstanding and highly professional scientists. The University has four faculties - Medical, Dentistry, Pharmaceutical and Public Health Faculty. The total number of students at undergraduate and postgraduate levels makes 8844, including over 500 international students from 15 countries, such as India, Saudi Arabia, Iran, Iraq, Egypt, Afghanistan, Pakistan, Kazakhstan, Turkmenistan etc. \n\nThe library fund of the University consists of 680334 items of educational, medical and scientific literature, including 151100 electronic books. The University has the well equipped electronic library, connected to the Internet, accessible to all beneficiaries. Taking into consideration the available resources and a spectrum of opportunities, the University library is considered to be the best specialized medical library in the country. \n\nDuring the last years the capacity of the University was strengthened by opening various resources, scientific and clinical centers, such as Stem Cells Laboratory, Evidencebased Medicine Centre, Drug Information Centre, Educational-clinical Centre \"Stomatology\", Diagnostic and Treatment Centre, Clinical Skills Centre etc. Some centers and the laboratories working within framework of the ATSMU are unique in the republic, and provide methodological support to scientific and medical establishments at the national level. \n\nATSMU is included in the catalogue of the Foundation for Advancement of International Medical Education and Research (FAIMER), the Educational Commission for Foreign Medical Graduates (ECFMG) and the Directory of the Medical Universities of the World Health Organization. The improvement of the quality of education and advancement of the level of training of the medical staff for the system of public health of the country is the priority goal of the management of the University. To attain this goal the experience of the best foreign medical educational institutions and also all existing real opportunities of the University itself are adopted. \nThe important directions of University activity is promotion of international cooperation, which facilitates improvement of the quality of curriculums, development of all-round and effective relations with medical institutions, high schools, the foreign research centers. Thus currently University has cooperation links with over 80 scientific - educational institutions of Canada, Austria, France, Germany, Sweden, Poland, China, Iran, Afghanistan, Russia, Ukraine, Kazakhstan, as well as successful joint projects with WHO, SDC, USAID, GIZ, Global Fund, Soros Foundation, DAAD, TEMPUS, ISTC, UNFPA that contributes to the development of all-round cooperation with foreign partners.\n\nhttps://tajmedun.tj/ru/\n"}
{"id": "55537379", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55537379", "title": "Bamalete Lutheran Hospital", "text": "Bamalete Lutheran Hospital\n\nThe services provided by the hospital includes taking care of seriously sick people who needs special attention (Palliative).\n\nBotswana Ministry of Health\n"}
{"id": "13675558", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13675558", "title": "Capital punishment in Albania", "text": "Capital punishment in Albania\n\nThe last execution of a civilian carried out in Albania was a hanging on 29 June 1995. While capital punishment was abolished for murder on 1 October 2000, it was still retained for treason and military offences. The reason for the abolition of the death penalty in Albania as well as in other European nations is the signing of Protocol No. 6 to the ECHR. In Albania this came into force on 1 October 2000.\n\nAlbania under communism the death penalty was used highly from 1941-1985.\n\nIn 2007 Albania ratified Protocol No. 13 to the ECHR, abolishing the death penalty under all circumstances, replacing it with life imprisonment.\n"}
{"id": "25979908", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25979908", "title": "Characters of Holby City", "text": "Characters of Holby City\n\n\"Holby City\" is a British medical drama television series that premiered on 12 January 1999 on BBC One. The series was created by Tony McHale and Mal Young as a spin-off from the established BBC medical drama \"Casualty\". It is set in the same hospital as \"Casualty\", Holby General, in the fictional city of Holby, and features occasional crossovers of characters and plots with both \"Casualty\" (in episodes broadcast as \"Casualty@Holby City\") and the show's 2007 police procedural spin-off \"HolbyBlue\".\n\n\"Holby City\" follows the professional and personal lives of surgeons, nurses, other medical and ancillary staff and patients at Holby General. It features an ensemble cast of regular characters, and began with 11 main characters in its first series, all of whom have since left the show. New main characters have been both written in and out of the series since. In addition, \"Holby City\" features guest stars each week, as well as recurring guests that take part in story arcs that span a portion of a series. Occasionally, the recurring guest storylines will span multiple series. Many actors in the series have made prior, minor appearances as both patients and staff members in both \"Holby City\" and \"Casualty\" - in some instances crediting these former appearances for their later casting as main characters in \"Holby City\".\n\nIn casting the first series of \"Holby City\", Young selected actors who were already established names in the acting industry, primarily from a soap opera background. He cast Michael French as Nick Jordan, George Irving as Anton Meyer, Angela Griffin as Jasmine Hopkins, Lisa Faulkner as Victoria Merrick and Nicola Stephenson as Julie Bradford. Young explained: \"Soap actors are the best actors. There's been so much snobbery before. The whole thing about typecasting was probably invented by actors who couldn't get other work. From day one I knew I wanted to put on screen people that viewers want to watch. There’s no downside to that.\" This propensity for hiring established actors continued as the soap progressed, with later roles being awarded to comedian Adrian Edmondson, former film actress Patsy Kensit, and \"Jesus of Nazareth\" star Robert Powell. When Jane Asher was cast in the recurring role of Lady Byrne in 2007, \"Inside Soap\" magazine asked series producer Diane Kyle whether the production team intentionally sought out \"well-known-names\", or whether roles simply went to the actor best-suited for the part. Kyle responded: \"It's lovely when we have a new member of the cast come in and bring an audience with them. But we want the best actors, and the star names we cast are always the best - which is why we go for them.\"\n\nMany cast members who play main characters have made previous appearances in \"Holby City\" and \"Casualty\" in minor roles. Amanda Mealing, who plays cardiothoracic consultant Connie Beauchamp, appeared as the mother of a paediatric patient in the show's fourth series. Luke Roberts, who plays registrar Joseph Byrne, appeared as the son of a medical professor in \"Holby City\" seventh series, Rosie Marcel, who plays registrar Jac Naylor appeared in both \"Holby City\" and \"Casualty\" as a patient on three occasions. Stella Gonet, who plays CEO Jayne Grayson, had a minor role as an anaesthetist in \"Casualty\", while Hari Dhillon, who plays general surgical consultant Michael Spence, previously appeared as a recurring anaesthetist in \"Holby City\". In some instances, actors have stated that it was their guest appearances which led to their casting in more permanent roles. Roberts believes that his single scene in series seven was enough for him to be called in for the part of Joseph, explaining: \"I hear it got the attention of the producers. Amanda Mealing put a good word in for me that day as well.\" Conversely, Dhillon dismissed his minor role as Dr Sunil Gupta as a part he took immediately after leaving drama school, unable to even recall the year of his appearance.\n\nJeremy Sheffield plays Alex Adams, a cardiothoracic registrar and a protege of Anton Meyer. He appears from series three, episode one until series five, episode 45. A romance with SHO Sam Kennedy almost ends his career, when Sam gets him drunk in an attempt to lure him into spending the night with her. Unaware he is over the speed limit, Alex causes the death of a young boy due to drink driving. He escapes a jail sentence, but departs for America when Meyer accepts a position overseas. He later returns and has a brief romance with Jess Griffin, as a result of which she becomes pregnant, but opts for an abortion. Alex goes on to suffer from the onset of Parkinson's disease, affecting his ability to work. He comes close to attempting suicide, but is talked out of it by Diane Lloyd, after which he leaves Holby for good.\n\nRebecca Grant plays nurse Daisha Anderson, who first appears in the episode \"Twelve Hour Nightmare\", series ten, episode 24. Daisha is described by the BBC as \"a forthright and assertive Filipina with a highly tuned sense of right and wrong. She doesn't understand hierarchy or tact but is straightforward and honest and has a natural antenna when it comes to flirting.\" \"Holby City\" was Grant's first television role. She explained of her introductory storyline: \"Some characters get a huge introduction, but mine has a 'flow' to it.\" Daisha's first appearance in \"Holby City\" explains that, although the character has been working at Holby City Hospital for some time in order to financially support her family in the Philippines, she has previously only worked on the Orthopedic ward - not one of the four wards the show focuses on. Daisha forms a close friendship with nursing consultant Mark Williams (Robert Powell). She flirts with Mark in order to win a transfer to Darwin ward, and moves in with him after breaking up with her boyfriend and being assaulted by her landlord, coming to rely on him yet further upon discovering herself to be pregnant. Mark also aids Daisha in becoming ambassador of the Byrne Foundation for cardiothoracic care, and promotes her to Sister of Keller ward, leading some to question the true nature of their relationship.\n\nPaul Shane plays Stan Ashleigh, a nurse who appears in \"Holby City\" from series three, episode one to series six, episode two.\n\nThusitha Jayasundera plays Tash Bandara, a general surgical registrar of Indian heritage who appears from series two, episode five until series four, episode 37. Tash had a relationship with SHO Kirstie Collins prior to her arrival at Holby. She clashes with nurse practitioner Jasmine Hopkins, disparaging her position in the hospital. When Tash's father visits the hospital, she discovers he has Alzheimer's disease. She tells him she is a lesbian, and he refuses to accept her identity. When Tash's ex-girlfriend arrives, terminally ill from complications arising from AIDS, Tash decides to join her on a world tour, and departs from Holby.\n\nAyesha Antoine plays Rachel Baptiste, who appears from series eleven, episode six as a staff nurse on the general surgery ward, Keller. Antoine had formerly appeared in \"Holby City\" series seven, episode five, as Mel Allen, the relative of a patient. She described her character upon her introduction as \"quite nervous, but very excited\", expanding that: \"She loves her job, caring for people and being helpful. She is at the beginning of a new stage in her life, and it's quite an upturn for her, and she's just very interested in getting to know everyone and is excited at being part of a group.\" The BBC describe Rachel as: \"warm and kind but perhaps a little too trusting. She's anxious to please. She loves nursing but her real passion is her boyfriend, Patrick.\" Antoine received just a thumbnail sketch of Rachel's background, but commented that: \"I love it. Give me a bit of spare time and I'll tell you what my character did age four and a half - whether it's a lot or a little, it's all good.\" During \"Holby City\" eleventh series, Rachel uncovers Daisha Anderson's post-natal depression and helps to support her, before being transferred to the hospital's geriatric ward. Executive producer Tony McHale commented on Rachel's transfer: \"Although she is still working in the hospital, we are not likely to see her on our regular wards for some time.\" Rachel is of Afrocaribbean heritage.\n\nClive Mantle plays Mike Barratt, a consultant general surgeon who previously appeared in \"Casualty\" practising emergency medicine. He appears in \"Holby City\" from series two, episode five until series three, episode 30, working on the hospital's Keller ward. At the end of the second series, Mike severely damages his leg after stepping on a poacher's trap and rolling hundreds of feet down a hill on a team building course. He recovers, and returns to work on crutches. At the end of the third series he is offered a job in New Zealand, which he refuses, although he does not return for the fourth series.\n\nAmanda Mealing plays Connie Beauchamp, a consultant cardiothoracic surgeon on Holby General's Darwin ward. Connie first appears in the series six episode \"In at the Deep End\", She is initially portrayed as a married man-eater, engaging in extra-marital trysts with Ric Griffin and registrars Mubbs Hussein and Will Curtis, though goes on to become a loving mother to her daughter, Grace, fathered by surgical registrar Sam Strachan. Connie was briefly written out of the series in 2007 to allow Mealing time out to work on separate projects, but returned to the show at the end of the year in the series ten episode \"Elliot's Wonderful Life\". She departs the show in Connie later joined Holby City's sister show \"Casualty\", arriving on 29 March 2014 as a new consultant and deputy clinical lead.\n\nNicola Stephenson plays Julie Bradford, an original character who appears until series three, episode 29. Julie is a single mother with mounting debts. When she is passed over for promotion to deputy ward sister, she resorts to lap dancing at night to care for her daughter. Her alter ego Crystal is exposed when a member of the lap dancing club is admitted to Holby General as a patient and recognises her. Julie is reprimanded, but is given a temporary promotion to help with her financial circumstances. During series two, Julie embarks on a relationship with one of the builders renovating the hospital, but he breaks up with her when he learns she has a child. When her ex-husband Martin arrives and begs Julie to give their relationship another chance, she agrees. They remarry, and leave Holby to start a new life with their daughter in Brighton.\n\nJasmine Burrows, played by Lucinda Dryzek, made her first appearance during the eighteenth series episode \"A Perfect Life\", broadcast on 19 July 2016. Jasmine is a new F1 and the half-sister of established regular Jac Naylor (Rosie Marcel). She was also a potential love interest for Oliver Valentine (James Anderson). The character was killed off in the episode broadcast on 20 June 2017.\n\nLuke Roberts played Joseph Byrne, a cardiothoracic surgical registrars introduced in the series eight episode \"A Mother's Love\". Roberts had made a former appearance in the show's seventh series as a minor character, and attributes this prior role to his eventual casting as Joseph. His major storylines have included an accidental drugs overdose, a relationship with fellow surgical registrar Jac Naylor, who cheated on him with his own father, and a relationship with the show's \"black widow\" character, Ward Sister Faye Morton. Roberts' portrayal of the role saw him longlisted for the \"Most Popular Newcomer\" award at the 2006 National Television Awards.\n\nEdward Campbell, played by Aden Gillett, made his first appearance in the fifteenth series episode \"Never Let Me Go\", broadcast on 30 July 2013. Gillett's casting was announced on 6 April. The actor stated, \"I'm looking forward to joining the cast of \"Holby\". I've worked with Catherine, Guy [Henry] and Hugh [Quarshie] before, and it will be a pleasure to work with them again.\" Executive producer Oliver Kent commented that Gillett's character would \"stir things up\" for Serena Campbell (Catherine Russell). Edward is Serena's ex-husband and a consultant anaesthetist, who comes to the hospital to take up a locum position on AAU. He also takes the opportunity to try and win Serena over. Russell told a \"What's on TV\" reporter that Serena and Edward had an acrimonious divorce around 15 years prior, due to his infidelity. Serena and Edward reunite, and decide to go on holiday with their daughter for Christmas. However, Serena soon learned that Edward was an alcoholic and had been having an affair with nurse Mary-Claire Carter (Niamh McGrady).\n\nA \"Daily Record\" reporter observed that Serena was \"not at all happy to see him\". While a \"Liverpool Echo\" reporter observed: \"new doctor Edward is a figure from Serena's past, which threatens to compromise her personal and professional lives\".\n\nSerena Campbell, played by Catherine Russell, is a consultant general surgeon Clinical Lead. She made her first appearance in the fourteenth series episode \"Coercion\", broadcast on 1 May 2012. The show's official website describes Serena as being candid, professional and a \"fearless architect of change.\" Serena was recruited by Henrik Hanssen (Guy Henry) to help the wards run more efficiently. She immediately clashed with new colleague Ric Griffin (Hugh Quarshie).\n\nDenis Lawson plays Tom Campbell-Gore, a consultant cardiothoracic surgeon who appears between series four, episode 45 and series six, episode 33.\n\nNiamh McGrady plays staff nurse Mary-Claire Carter. Initially a recurring character, she first appeared 22 September 2009. She became a main cast member in 2011. Mary-Claire often has difficulties in her relationships, be they personal or professional. Although a very capable and caring nurse, it does not often show with several consultants questioning her ability and commitment. She was close to Chrissie Williams until her departure and after a failed relationship has bonded with CT2 Harry Tressler.\n\nMary-Claire can be blunt, lazy and insensitive. Diplomacy is definitely not her strong point, but scratch at the surface and you’ll find a lonely girl, with a heart of gold, who is desperate to find ‘the one’. She could be a brilliant nurse, if only she could just keep her mind on the job and learn to believe in herself.\n\nLee Mead plays nurse Ben \"Lofty\" Chiltern, a nurse who previously appeared in \"Casualty\". He will appear in \"Holby City\" from series nineteen, working on the hospital's Keller ward. Upon the character's introduction, it was teased the character could be \"running away from his problems\". Mead said he was \"looking forward to being in a new part of the Holby hospital and seeing what it has in store for [Lofty] next.\" The show's acting executive producer, Simon Harper, said it was \"thrilling\" to introduce Mead to \"Holby City\". He added, \"Keller Ward is going through some dark times, so Lofty's trademark warmth and kindness will come at just the right moment.\"\n\nMeena Chowdhury, played by Salma Hoque,made her first appearance in the sixty-third episode of series 19. The character and Salma Hoque's casting details were announced on 29 September 2017, alongside those of Belinda Owusu who plays Nicky McKendrick, Meena's best friend from school. Meena is an F1. In her fictional backstory, she had a privileged upbringing, whereas Nicky is working class. Meena's friendship with Nicky is tested, as they try to impress Jac Naylor (Rosie Marcel) during their rotation.\n\nPeter Wingfield plays Dan Clifford, a general surgical consultant who first appears in series nine, episode seven, \"It's Been a Long Day\". Dan is described as: \"sexist, materialistic and egotistical but also incredibly charismatic\", and engages in several romantic relationships during his single season on the show. He arrives having left his third fiancé at the altar, and goes on to develop feelings for both SHO Maddy Young, and his sister-in-law Louise. Of Dan's relationship with Maddy, Wingfield explained: \"There was a line in one of the last episodes, 'one of them seems perfect for you' and I always thought that summed it up. Dan and Maddy have always been incredibly close without becoming lovers, but it is obvious that they are great together, so when it happens it is effortless and joyous and has wonderful potential. But Dan's private demons prevent it from being allowed to live and grow. I always thought it might be great for him, if only he could have let it be.\" Similarly, Nadine Lewington who plays Maddy assessed: \"Dan loved Maddy sincerely which is why he didn't want to risk hurting her any more than he already had. He was too messed up to be good for anyone and he knew it.\"\n\nWingfield describes Dan as \"decisive, quick-thinking and pragmatic\", explaining that \"he doesn't allow emotion to control his choices\". He says of his reception: \"People really responded to the character. He had such a roguishness and a wildness and you never quite knew what he might do or say next and I think that was exciting for people.\" Dan leaves Holby in series ten episode two \"The Last Throw\" to accept a prestigious job in France, though reappears briefly in episode \"Love Will Tear Us Apart\", arranging a meeting with Maddy but ultimately standing her up. He reappears again in \"Holby City\" eleventh series, and although Wingfield left the show in order to spend more time with his family in Los Angeles, he has stated that he would return again \"in a heartbeat\". He explained: \"The story would have to be good, but I don't have any doubts that there is much more to explore and more fun to be had with Dan.\"\n\nDawn McDaniel plays Kirstie Collins, an original character who appears until series three, episode six as a cardiology registrar. Kirstie flirts with many of the staff, including nurse Danny Shaughnessy. In the second series, it is revealed that Kirstie had previously had a lesbian relationship with registrar Tash Bandara. Kirstie's father, who she has been estranged from for six years, is admitted to the hospital with a damaged liver after years of alcohol abuse. Kirstie agrees to see him and urges him to seek help. She leaves the hospital after undertaking a dangerous rescue.\n\nDavid Ames plays F1 Dominic Copeland who first appears on 23 April 2013. Coming over as friendly and very capable, he makes a good impression on both colleagues and patients. He strikes up a close professional relationship with Malick and the two have a steamy encounter in the locker room and it turns out they spent the night together. However things turn sour when Malick makes it clear it was just a one-night stand that should never have happened given his role as Dominic's line manager. Dominic does not take this at all well. The story concludes with a controversial patient where Malick risks his career by trying to get answers for a grieving mother. The patient dies and Dominic deliberately lies in a hearing as revenge for Malick's snubbing of him. The truth is revealed and Malick manages to save his career, mainly due to the intervention of Hanssen. Disgraced, Dominic leaves the hospital. However, on 14 January 2014, Dominic returns following being cleared of any wrongdoing. He does however have to repeat his F1 year. Arthur, having been a close ally of Malick's, is not at all happy to see him back. Dominic does his best to make peace with Arthur but to little avail. He strikes up a friendship with Zosia and moves into Arthur and Zosia's flat, much to Arthur's disgust.\n\nImelda Cousins, played by Tessa Peake-Jones, made her first appearance during the fifteenth series episode \"Hail Caesar\", broadcast on 20 November 2012. The character and casting were announced on 30 October 2012. Imelda was introduced as the Acting CEO of Holby City Hospital, following the abrupt departure of Henrik Hanssen (Guy Henry).\n\nDuncan Pow plays Linden Cullen, the head of Holby General's Acute Assessment Unit, introduced in series ten, episode 14, \"Stolen\". Linden is motivated by his strong Catholicism, admitting in confessional to feeling he has betrayed his dead wife Olivia by developing romantic feelings for Ward Sister Faye Morton, after he and registrar Joseph Byrne track her down in a special episode set on location in Cape Town. He reveals that Olivia was killed in a car crash, for which he blames himself, and that he has a daughter, Holly, who reminds him of Olivia to the extent that he cannot bear to see her, so is being raised by Olivia's parents instead of him. A long-running series ten plot strand sees Linden become deeply involved with the plight of a pair of Korean asylum seekers, one of whom is pregnant with conjoined twins. As the couple are Christian, he feels compelled by his faith to help them, and ensures that the hospital hosts the twins' separation operation, despite political red-tape. Linden is hit over the head with a bottle and killed in the grounds of the hospital while trying to stop Faye being attacked by a drug addict.\n\nNoah Huntley plays Will Curtis, a cardiothoracic surgical registrar who appears between series six, episode 29 and series seven, episode 25. Will is killed when scaffolding being used to do work on the outside of the hospital collapses and he is trapped under it eventually dying from his injuries.\n\nMark Moraghan plays Owen Davis, a consultant obstetrician who appears between series four, episode three and series eight, episode ten.\n\nRob Ostlere plays Arthur Digby, an F2 who first appeared in \"Blood ties\" but arrived on Darwin in \"Push the Button, Part 2\" as an F1. Arthur slowly began to realize he had unknown feelings for Chantelle which he finally declared was love, but during episode 51 of Series 15, Arthur paid the price for his love, as he got distracted behind the wheel while trying to tell Chantelle he loved her causing to crash his car. After her recovery, Arthur finally told her he loved her, but he was left crying when Chantelle decided one of them had to move on. Arthur is diagnosed with cancer and later dies in \"I'll Walk You Home\", broadcast on 7 June 2016.\n\nJoe McFadden portrays general surgical registrar Raffaello \"Raf\" di Lucca. By his own admission, his passion lies with CPR routines, protocols and development. He first appears in on 28 January 2014 and instantly makes an impression on Ric and Guy after bringing his lunch and shoes to an interview after assuming they would want him to start. He comes over as confident bordering on arrogant. He upsets Harry when he criticises his CPR abilities and attitude. He also clashes with Adele and confiscates her mobile phone after catching her using it.\n\nEdward MacLiam plays Greg Douglas, a registrar in cardiothoracic surgery who first appears in series twelve, working for Connie Beauchamp in London. He follows her back to Holby and begins working on Darwin ward, mentoring F2 doctor Oliver Valentine.\n\nAdrian Edmonson plays Abra Durant, a consultant surgeon who first appears in the series seven episode \"Tuesday's Child\", filmed entirely on location in Ghana as part of the BBC's \"Africa Lives\" season. While the role was created for Edmondson as a one-off guest-appearance, he has since reprised the role of Abra six times, stating that he has loved the show since its 1999 conception. Abra's initial role in the show is that of Third World rights champion and humorous surgical maverick, whose major storylines centre around serious rule breaking, and his relationship with colleague Kyla Tyson. Upon returning to the show in series eleven, the character takes a darker turn, resorting to self-harm as a symptom of post-traumatic stress, following a harrowing experience in the war torn Congo. Abra returns to Africa after seeking psychiatric help, and makes his final appearance soon thereafter, returning briefly to Holby in an attempt to convince Kyla to move to Ghana with him.\n\nXavier \"Zav\" Duval, played by Marcus Griffiths, made his first appearance in the twentieth series episode \"Hard Day's Night\", broadcast on 20 February 2018. Xavier is a general surgical registrar. Griffiths described his character as \"very confident and charming\", as well as an \"alpha male\". The actor said he shared some similarities with Xavier, such as their ambitious sides, but Griffiths thought he was more empathetic. He also thought Xavier was a \"Marmite\" character, who viewers would either like or hate. Xavier clashes with co-worker Nicky McKendrick (Belinda Owusu) after they both get drunk at the local bar, while he has a casual relationship with her friend Meena Chowdhury (Salma Hoque). In April 2018, Griffiths starred in one episode of \"Holby City\" sister show, \"Casualty\", as Xavier. For his portrayl of Xavier, Griffiths was nominated for Best Soap Newcomer at the 2018 \"Digital Spy\" Reader Awards.\n\nPetra Letang plays healthcare assistant Adele Effanga and made her first appearance in series 16 on 14 January 2014. Adele is the younger sister of Mo Effanga (Chizzy Akudolu). Adele is the show's first regular healthcare assistant and series producer Simon Harper described her as being \"funny, sassy and streetwise\". He added that while Mo loves her sister, she is not very happy to have her working at the same hospital.\n\nChizzy Akudolu plays specialist registrar Mo Effanga, who has been on the show since 22 May 2012. Mo is a comedic character but has also been involved in many big storylines, for example when she was giving birth to a baby for a friend. On her arrival, a BBC spokesperson dubbed her \"Disorganised and chaotic in her personal life, if there’s a disastrous man on the horizon, she’ll find him\". She was nominated for \"Best Newcomer\" at the Black International Film Festival and Music.\n\nAdrian Lewis Morgan plays nurse Liam Evans, who appears from series three, episode 15 until series four, episode 35. Liam originally works on Keller ward as an agency nurse. He plans to leave the hospital to get married and move to Australia, but when he is jilted on his wedding day, he applies for a permanent position. When Liam overhears his neighbours arguing, he intervenes in an instance of domestic violence and is pushed off a balcony. He is left paralysed from the waist down, and becomes depressed, feeling unable to cope. When his ex-fiancée returns to Holby, she and Liam reconcile and move to Australia.\n\nAdrian \"Fletch\" Fletcher, played by Alex Walkinshaw, made his first appearance during the sixteenth series episode \"Star Crossed Lover\", broadcast on 12 August 2014. Fletch previously appeared in \"Holby City\" sister show, \"Casualty\", as a staff nurse between 2012 and 2014. It was announced on 1 April 2014 that Walkinshaw would leave \"Casualty\" and join \"Holby City\". He has a connection with Director of Nursing Colette Sheward (Louise Delamere).\nDavid Ajao plays Damon Ford, a foundation doctor in his first year of training. He made his first appearance in the nineteenth series episode \"The Hard Way Home\", broadcast on 6 June 2017. Damon is billed as \"boyishly enthusiastic\". Executive producer Simon Harper called Ajao \"a really exciting new talent\" and said that he has injected \"energy and idealism\" into the character. Ajao left the role in 2017 and Damon made his final appearance in the nineteenth series episode \"Hungry Heart\", broadcast on 21 November 2017.\n\nLuisa Bradshaw-White plays Lisa Fox, who first appears in \"Holby City\" in series four, episode 13, \"Shadow of a Doubt (Part 1)\", as a midwife on the hospital's maternity ward. She later goes on to become sister of the Acute Assessment Unit, then clinical matron of Keller, the hospital's general surgical ward. Following her departure from the show, the official series website described Lisa as: \"ambitious, highly capable at her job and didn't suffer fools gladly. However, she sometimes took herself too seriously and was afraid to let her hair down. She had a determined nature and while she could cause friction, she was genuine and honest.\" Her major storylines revolve around her advancing career, an on-off relationship with colleague Mubbs Hussein, and her father's death by assisted suicide. Lisa also appears in the \"Casualty@Holby City\" interactive episode \"Something We Can Do\". Upon announcing her forthcoming departure from the show on 8 June 2005, BBC Publicity commented: \"The character of Lisa has been wonderful in the show and she has always had a huge sense of fun and adventure. So in the months to come we will see her unable to resist the challenge of working in a setting very different from Holby City Hospital.\" In her final appearance, series 7, episode 48 \"Great Expectations\", Lisa decides to leave Holby with surgeon Abra Durant and relocate to work with him in Ghana. Although the character had only recently embarked on a new relationship with Mubbs, Bradshaw-White explained: \"When he does finally declare his undying love for her and asks to move in with him, Lisa realises it isn't what she wants at all.\" She expanded that \"Lisa's waited so long to hear those words, but she's annoyed to discover he assumed she'd jump at the chance [to move in with him].\" She stated that she was \"pleased it's a positive ending for [Lisa] as she's been so miserable\", and explained that her motivation for leaving \"Holby City\" was \"Purely because I've been in it four years. I've loved every second here and I probably stayed a year longer than I wanted to, just because I loved it so much.\"\n\nJan Pearson plays ward sister Kath Fox between series two episode one and series six episode 26. Kath is the mother of nurse Danny Shaughnessy, and during her early years on the show escapes a violent marriage marred by domestic abuse to Danny's father. Her Christian faith is a strong element of her character, and she struggles emotionally when the hospital's Father Michal develops romantic feelings towards her. She rejects his advances, and he responds by attempting suicide. Later, she falls in love with and marries Terry Fox, father of midwife Lisa Fox. Terry is suffering from cancer, and later takes his own life. Kath is accused of aiding him in euthanasia by Lisa, and is arrested and tried in court, eventually deemed to be innocent. She and Lisa do not reconcile until Kath departs from Holby, leaving the country with her most recent love interest.\n\nPaul McGann plays Professor John Gaskell, a neurosurgeon who made his first appearance on 5 December 2017, in the nineteenth series episode \"Group Animal – Part One\". John is billed as a \"surgical star with irrepressible charm\", who will take the hospital into \"an exciting but unknown future\" with a new surgical programme. McGann began filming in August 2016. Of his casting, McGann said, \"I'm really excited to be joining Holby. Professor John Gaskell is certainly going to be an interesting character and I can't wait to get started on the wards.\" Head of Continuing Drama for BBC Scripted Studios, Oliver Kent, expressed his delight at the casting of McGann and described him joining the show as \"a dream come true\". He added, \"John Gaskell will be a mercurial force to be reckoned with and I can't wait to see him locking horns with Jac, Hanssen, Griffin and the other Holby titans.\"\n\nVerona Joseph plays Jess Griffin, the daughter of consultant general surgeon Ric Griffin. Jess first appears in series 4, episode 15, becoming the personal assistant of Owen Davis. She goes on to become a nurse, and departs from the show in series 9, episode 29. She reappeared in series 13, episode 3 on 2 November 2010, married to a man named David Kilburn and is 18 weeks pregnant, and again in series 13, episode 21 on 8 March 2011. On 4 March 2014, Jess returns suffering from bad symptoms which turn out to be a hernia. It also transpires that her husband, David has been abusing her both mentally and physically. Her father pledges to do everything he can to get her away from him.\n\nSharon D. Clarke plays Lola Griffin, introduced in \"Holby City\"s seventh series as the two-time ex-wife of Ric Griffin, and a cardiothoracic registrar. She is quickly promoted to critical care consultant and head of the hospital's Acute Assessment Unit. However, the fast pace of the AAU combined with her \"feisty, controlling\" nature culminates in her being fired from the hospital and suffering a heart attack on the same day. Lola recovers following surgery, and is re-employed by the hospital, switching roles once again to become a post-operative care consultant. It has been announced that the character will depart from the show later in 2008, to allow Clarke to return to musical theatre. When Holby General's CEO Jayne Grayson is forced to make a consultant redundant, Lola is top of the list. She leaves the hospital to work as medical officer at a private psychiatric clinic. With the help of Ric, she manages to fool Jayne into doubling her redundancy package even though she has a better job to go to. On her first day, she is reunited with former colleague Abra Durant who is being treated for post traumatic stress syndrome following his time in Africa. When Abra discharges himself and decides to return to Ghana, Lola realises that the new job isn't right for her, so hands in her resignation and leaves with Abra.\n\nHugh Quarshie plays Ric Griffin, the hospital's Head of general surgery. He is portrayed as \"stubborn, impulsive and self-destructive,\" but at the same time \"noble and righteous\", unafraid to fight for his principles and medical ethics. His major storylines concentrate on his gambling addiction, and his inability to find the right woman. Ric has been married six times (twice to fellow Holby doctor Lola Griffin), and has eight children and two grandchildren. He is the second longest serving character on the show, having arrived at the start of \"Holby City\" fourth series. The character was briefly written out in 2006 to allow Quarshie time off to film two episodes of BBC sci-fi series \"Doctor Who\", but returned again to the serial in 2007.\n\nAdam Astill plays Dan Hamilton, a Consultant orthopaedic surgeon, who first appears in the episode titled \"Blue Valentine\" of the thirteenth series. Astill had wanted a role in the series for some time prior to his casting. Billed as charming and sometimes lacking courage, Dan begins a relationship with ward sister Chrissie Williams. However his rivalry with registrar Antoine Malick develops into something more.\n\nGuy Henry plays Henrik Hanssen, a consultant general surgeon and joint Director of Surgery at Holby General, who first appears in the premiere episode of the thirteenth series, \"Shifts\". Hanssen was sent to the hospital by the Department of Health to make budget cuts. He is presented as \"punctilious, pedantic and passionate about his work\", but with a dry sense of humour.\n\nFrom December 2000 to September 2003, staff nurse Sandy Harper was played by Laura Sadler. The actress was fatally injured on 15 June 2003, when she fell from the balcony of her boyfriend's second floor flat. Sadler was taken off life support and died one day later, in Charing Cross Hospital. Eight further \"Holby City\" episodes featuring Sadler as Sandy had already been filmed, and were aired as scheduled posthumously. BBC scriptwriters consulted Sadler's mother, Sonja Sadler, when devising the character's exit storyline. Mal Young said: \"I went there thinking we were all going to be in tears and it turned into an unofficial storyline conference. I said we would find a way of explaining Laura's absence and her mum came up with an idea we all liked.\" Sandy's farewell episode, \"A Friend in Need\", revealed that the character had won £150,000 in the lottery, and left for Australia to follow former love interest Danny Shaughnessy. After discovering various amounts of money she had left behind for her friends at Holby City Hospital, the characters gathered together in the hospital bar at the end of the episode, and raised a toast \"To the one and only Sandy!\"\n\nEstelle \"Essie\" Harrison, played by Kaye Wragg, made her first appearance in the sixteenth series episode \"My Name Is Joe\", which aired on 6 May 2014. Essie is a Staff Nurse at Holby City Hospital. She came to the hospital with her dying grandfather and she started a relationship with Sacha Levy (Bob Barrett). She later moved to Germany after her grandfather died. In October 2014, it was announced that Wragg would be returning to \"Holby City\" and she was promoted to the regular cast. Upon her return, Essie resumed her role as Staff Nurse on Keller ward and eventually rekindled her relationship with Sacha, after admitting that she had dated someone else in Germany. In August 2015 she began her new role as Transplant Co-ordinator.\n\nKelly Adams plays Mickie Hendrie, a midwife who first appears in series six, episode 24. Mickie has a lesbian affair with Donna Jackson and goes on to become a staff nurse, before departing in series eight, episode 47 to attend medical school to become a doctor.\n\nJoseph Millson plays Luc Hemingway, an eccentric and extremely intelligent specialist registrar. He first appears in November 2011, episode \"Under The Skin\", while on the roof with Nurse Eddi McKee. His double fellowship and unsociable manner winds Eddi (Sarah Jane Potts) up, and causes lots of hilariously funny banter to be batted between them. In the episode \"Ribbons\", he kisses her, but the aftermath of the kiss shows that he offered no explanation and even disappeared from the ward to focus on research to avoid her. The episodes \"Unsafe Haven (Part 1 & 2)\" were focused on the beginning of their relationship, bought about by Luc allowing Eddi to see a more sensitive side of him when he blames himself for the death of a friend, the security guard, and the outbreak of Legionnaires. In \"Long Way Down\", Eddi and Luc are shown as finally being in a relationship. Luc is offered a permanent contract, and plans to take the contract. However, the end of the episode shows that Luc has left, with no explanation. He returned in \"A Crack in the Ice\", for a brief period of time. After the departure of Eddi, it is shown that Luc was struggling to cope. When Luc is confronted by a patient in \"Blood Ties\", we find out that he was an Army Doctor in Sierra Leone. \"Hanssen/Hemingway\" focuses partly around Luc's past. He departed in \"Hanssen/Hemingway\", leaving for India to find Eddi.\n\nPaul Bradley plays Elliot Hope, who first appears in the episode \"More Equal Than Others\" - series eight, episode four of the programme. Elliot is introduced as a consultant surgeon and Clinical Lead on Holby General's cardiothoracic surgery ward. His storylines see his wife Gina, a Motor Neurone Disease-sufferer, commit assisted suicide, and his relationship with his children subsequently deteriorate. Elliot considers suicide himself, before reconciling with his family. He ends a brief romance with colleague Lady Byrne as he is still mourning Gina, and later shares a kiss with his old friend Tara Sodi. Bradley was cast in the role after originally auditioning for a more minor part, and impressing executive producer Richard Stokes. He observed real heart surgery being performed in preparation for the role, and bases his portrayal of Elliot on his own father, who was a doctor. Elliot is portrayed as \"a disorganised genius\", and \"a medical Columbo\". He was the focus of \"Holby City\" 2007 Christmas episode, based on the 1964 film \"It's a Wonderful Life\". The assisted suicide storyline proved controversial, though the Elliot-centric Christmas episode was generally well received by critics. \"The Times\" David Chater called it \"highly effective in what it sets out to do\", though Robert Hanks of \"The Independent\" deemed it \"incompetent to the point of sacrilege\".\n\nAngela Griffin plays nurse Jasmine Hopkins, a nurse who appears from \"Holby City\" first episode until the end of series three. Jasmine begins the serial as a staff nurse on the cardiothoracic surgery ward, Darwin. She is promoted to ward sister, causing tension with her best friend Julie Fitzjohn, who also applied for the position. Jasmine is engaged to Carl, an IT user support technician at the hospital. They argue when he decides to set a date for their wedding without consulting Jasmine about it. When Carl hits Jasmine, she breaks off their engagement. Jasmine walks in on a group of youths stealing from the ward drug store, and is stabbed. Nick Jordan repairs damage to her heart, and as she is stabilised, it is discovered that Jasmine is pregnant. Upon recovering, she plans to have an abortion. Carl threatens to get an injunction to stop her, but Jasmine miscarries. Following the opening of the general surgery ward, Keller, Jasmine becomes a nurse practitioner. During series three, with the introduction of the children's ward, Otter, Jasmine often works with Otter nurse Steve Waring. They fall in love, and sleep together while Steve is still married to his wife, Emma. Steve's son Robbie discovers the affair and threatens to reveal it. Jasmine breaks up with Steve and departs from the hospital.\n\nIan Aspinall plays Mubbs Hussein, an obstetrics registrar who appears from series four, episode eight until series seven, episode 52. The character was written out when the show decided to focus less on the maternity ward, leaving him with fewer storyline options.\n\nLulu, played by Fiona Hampton, first appeared in the thirteenth series episode \"Going It Alone\", broadcast on 19 July 2011. Lulu was introduced as a Foundation House Officer 1 (F1) on rotation at Holby City Hospital. Her arrival sees Sacha Levy looking for a new doctor to replace Dr. Penny Valentine who had previously been killed off on the show. She is introduced alongside a highly qualified F1 doctor in competition for a job. However, Director of Surgery Henrik Hanssen (Guy Henry) explains Lulu's privileged connections, as the daughter of Sir Fraser Anderson. Mr Levy ultimately chooses Lulu as the New F1. As Lulu starts her first official day on Acute Assessment Unit (AAU) Nurse Eddi starts to have serious reservations about Sir Fraser's daughter due to a late start and inappropriate footwear. When Michael Spence turns up to work on (AAU), he is immediately drawn to new recruit Lulu and exhibits overly flirtatious 'mentoring' techniques and Lulu recipricates.\n\nJaye Jacobs plays ward sister Donna Jackson. Since her first appearance in \"Holby City\" in the series six episode \"Baptism of Fire\", Donna has become more serious about her work, despite her \"chaotic\" personal life. Jacobs was cast in the role of Donna alongside fellow series six newcomer Kelly Adams, as midwife Mickie Hendrie. The pair's arrival in the show was heavily publicized, and subject of a documentary entitled \"Making It at Holby\", chronicling their casting process. The two characters embarked on a brief lesbian liaison, however caused the BBC to ban its actresses from appearing in raunchy photo-shoots, after being photographed cuddling and kissing while dressed in nurse's uniforms for various 'lads mags'. The character departed in the series thirteen episode \"What You Mean By Home\", following Jacobs' decision to pursue new projects. The character's reintroduction was announced on 10 February 2017, with her return scheduled for Spring 2017. On her return, Jacobs said, \"Donna and I have unfinished business. She's flirty, brash and ballsy. I've missed her!\"\n\nMichael French plays Nick Jordan, who appears from the first episode of \"Holby City\" as a registrar on the show's cardiothoracic ward. He later returns as a general surgical consultant, before transferring to sister show \"Casualty\" to run the Emergency Department. Following Nick's 2006 departure from \"Holby City\", the series' official website described him as: \"decisive, confident, charismatic and passionate. He was constantly striving for the top and wanted to emulate Meyer.\" During his time on \"Holby City\", Nick has several romantic interests, including ex-wife and ward sister Karen Newburn, theatre sister Ellie Sharpe, SHO Kirstie Collins, and registrars Diane Lloyd and Jac Naylor. The series homepage assesses that: \"He had tremendous pulling power with women, but commitment was not his strong point.\" Michael French, discussing his character shortly after the show's 1999 conception, asserted that: \"Like most blokes, he sometimes treats women as playthings – if they're willing. A little bit of hanky panky is part of the human condition, after all!\" Of his decision to transfer to \"Casualty\", French explained: \"The BBC came up with the idea [...] At first, I wasn't sure about him moving away from heart surgery, but we soon thrashed some ideas around and I realised it would work. It's certainly great to play Nick again and I'm having a fantastic time on the show.\" French was nominated for the \"'Most Popular Actor\" award in the 2006 National Television Awards for his portrayal of Nick. Both \"The Guardian\" and the \"Sunday Mirror\" have likened the character to George Clooney's ER character Doug Ross - \"the one everyone fancies\", but while Andrew Billen for the \"New Statesman\" agrees that Nick is \"good-looking\", he suggests French's playing another \"love rat\" character after his \"EastEnders\" role as David Wicks to be typecasting.\n\nAyesha Dharker plays Nina Karnik, a general surgeon who will make first appear in Spring 2017, within the show's nineteenth series. Nina is the wife of Matteo Rossini (Christian Vit) and billed as \"tough but compassionate\". Acting executive producer, Simon Harper, described the character as \"an emotionally compelling character with a mysterious past.\" He added that producers had wanted Dharker to appear in the show for a while, and had finally found the right part for her.\n\nRocky Marshall plays Ed Keating, a cardiothoracic registrar who appears from series four, episode 45 until series six, episode 33, working under Tom Campbell-Gore. Ed leaves when he realises he has been set up by Tom Campbell-Gore after an operation goes bad and an investigation is made requiring blame. He is cleared but he knows he can't work with Tom anymore.\n\nPhoebe Thomas plays Maria Kendall, who arrives in \"Holby City\" ninth series as a student nurse, later qualifying as a staff nurse. Although the character did not make her \"Holby City\" debut until 28 November 2006, Thomas appeared as Maria on the 17 November 2006 \"Children in Need\" charity telethon appeal - which included a segment featuring the \"Holby City\" cast performing a version of \"Hung Up\" by Madonna.\n\nCollette Brown plays Sam Kennedy, an SHO who appears from series three, episode 19 until series four, episode 45. Sam meets registrar Alex Adams in the hospital bar. They sleep together, and the next morning discover they are colleagues. They begin a relationship, but Sam leaves Alex for consultant Ric Griffin, who she later leaves at the altar. Sam tells the parents of a young boy that the operation he is due to have is unsafe. The parents remove their child from the hospital and his condition worsens. He is re-admitted and taken to theatre, but dies. When Anton Meyer discovers Sam advised the parents to withdraw their son, she is forced to leave the hospital, but exacts her revenge by telling the press about Meyer's \"unsafe\" operations.\n\nArt Malik plays Zubin Khan, a consultant anaesthetist and the head of the hospital's intensive care unit, who appears from series five, episode 37 until series seven, episode 51.\n\nLauren Drummond plays Chantelle Lane, an agency nurse fresh out of training who is eventually given a permanent staff position on Keller. Her friendly and dutiful manner have seen her take responsibility for failures that were not her fault. Chantelle leaves after realizing that Arthur feels more for her than she for him meaning they couldn't work together so one of them had to leave and so she decided it must be her. Chantelle gets on a bus and leaves after kissing him goodbye during his surprise birthday party. She suggests that she will travel around the world \"possibly Ibiza, Thailand, Tibet\".\n\nDon Gilet plays Jesse Law, a consultant anaesthetist who works on both Keller and Darwin during his tenure.\n\nBob Barrett plays Sacha Levy, a general surgical registrar who arrives in series twelve. Sacha is the father of Chrissie's son, Daniel. At first his feelings were un-reciprocated, until they weren't.\n\nPatricia Potter plays Diane Lloyd, a general surgical registrar who appears between series four, episode 39 and series nine, episode 38. Diane has a disastrous love life, dating a number of hospital staff and marrying consultant obstetrician Owen Davies, who has an affair with his ex-wife, sister Chrissie Williams. Diane's storylines include a fling with nurse Danny Shaughnessy, aborting the child of Steve Waring and miscarrying Owen's child, the death of her sister, and facing an old medical schools teacher of hers who raped her. She also has an on/off relationship with Ric Griffin, who proposed marriage to her before her arrival in the serial, only to be turned down. Diane is promoted to locum general surgical consultant following the departure of Abra Durant. When the stress of the job becomes too much for her and Diane feels betrayed by Ric, she hands in her resignation. Consultant Elliot Hope suggests she take a sabbatical and lends her his car and a cottage to house-sit for a few months. Diane accepts the offer, but that evening parks the car on a railway line and commits suicide.\n\nJing Lusi plays Tara Lo, Foundation Training Year 1 doctor, who first appears in series 14, episode 21 \"Fresh Blood\", she is vibrant, beautiful and annoyingly eager, and pushes herself to excel amongst her peers. She comes from a privileged background, but is acutely aware of life’s fragility and is in a hurry to establish herself as a brilliant doctor. Her perfectionist nature sometimes hides a lack of confidence and her temper has a short fuse when things don’t go her way. On rare occasions, when she lets her guard down, she has an endearingly goofy sense of humour. Tara has an inoperable brain tumour which she tries to keep secret. Director of Surgery Henrik Hanssen (Guy Henry) finds out about the condition but allows Tara to continue working on that basis that she is candid about her condition and notifies him should she become symptomatic.\n\nColleague Jac Naylor refers to Tara by the nickname \"St. Trinians\" most likely because of her petite stature and lack of years (reminding her of nothing more than a schoolgirl).\n\nTara starts a romantic relationship with Oliver \"Ollie\" Valentine (James Anderson) and eventually tells Oliver about her inoperable brain tumour. Ollie is shocked and goes into overdrive looking for cures. Tara tells him he must accept her tumour and come to terms with it as she has, and their relationship becomes stronger. Ollie moves into Tara's flat some weeks later. However, as Tara's brain tumour grows and becomes symptomatic, she is persuaded to have life-threatening surgery to reduce it. Tara asks Ollie to marry her and he accepts. He also respects her wishes to have her organs donated if she dies in surgery. She praises Ollie to her parents that \"he's the best thing that's ever happened to me. I wouldn't have lasted two minutes in my job if it wasn't for him. He has put himself on the line, so many times for me. He knows everything about me, and he would do anything for me,\" after they find out she and Ollie are getting married. Her parents want the couple to wait until Tara has recovered from her surgery. Later that day, Tara and Ollie get married in front of her parents and their friends and co-workers, Elliot Hope (Paul Bradley), Jac Naylor (Rosie Marcel), Jonny Maconie (Michael Thomson) and Mo Effanga (Chizzy Akudolu) at Holby hospital gardens.\n\nTara goes in for her brain surgery with her husband Ollie by her side, but following complications she is pronounced brainstem-dead and sadly dies. With Tara's parents and Ollie's permission, her organs are donated as she requested.\n\nMichael Thompson plays Charge Nurse and Transplant coordinator Jonny Maconie who first appeared on 15 May 2012. We first see him attending a course with Jac Naylor. There is an instant spark between the two and they begin a sexual relationship. He begins his role at Holby a fortnight later, much to Jac's surprise who had no idea he was a nurse. Jonny becomes an instant favourite with both Staff and patients. He remains very close to Jac and the two have a very tempestuous relationship and break up and reconcile on a few occasions. Their encounters end up in Jac becoming pregnant and although not together, Jonny gives his word he will be there for both her and the baby. It turns out that when the baby is born it only has a 50% chance of survival, Jonny remains optimistic and positive for Jac although he is secretly as scared as she is. Jonny also has a very close friendship with Registrar Mo Effanga, although the two often clash over patients and protocol.\nOn April 1, 2014, he was due to be married to Nurse Bonnie Wallis, however she was killed moments before the wedding was due to begin.\n\nHermione Gulliford plays consultant neurosurgeon Roxanna MacMillan, who first appears in the fifteenth series episode \"The End of The Beginning\". The character appears in three episodes as Tara Lo's (Jing Lusi) neurosurgeon before departing. At the producers' request, Gulliford agreed to reprise the role in 2017 for six episodes. They then invited the actress to join the show's regular cast. Roxanna returns in the nineteenth series episode \"Things Left Unsaid\". To prepare for the role, Gulliford read books written by neurosurgeon Henry Marsh. She enjoyed the medical aspect of the role and liked portraying a neurosurgeon, but thought that she would not make a good surgeon in real life.\n\nProducers told Gulliford that her character would be involved in a storyline featuring John Gaskell (Paul McGann), who had yet to join the series. A backstory for Roxanna was established through her relationships with John and Henrik Hanssen (Guy Henry), who she attended university with. Gulliford explained that Roxanna, John and Hanssen have a \"huge amount of respect\" for each other, but stated that it soon becomes apparent that Roxanna has more respect for John than he has for her. Producers wanted to explore the history between the friends, and a flashback episode exploring their history was created. Gulliford enjoyed working with Henry and McGann; she was already friends with Henry from previous acting work together.\n\nIn the twentieth series episode \"Undoing\", the character is killed off. Gulliford's departure had not been announced prior to transmission, creating a surprise for the audience. In the episode, Roxanna, who has developed locked-in syndrome following a neurosurgical operation performed by John, tries to tell their colleagues about John's fraudulent research project. John discovers this and injects Roxanna with a neurotoxin, killing her. Producers told Gulliford that her character would die when explaining the storyline to her. Executive producer Simon Harper said that the actress dealt with the situation with \"great grace and aplomb\". He opined that Gulliford gave a \"wonderful, nuanced performance as Roxanna\" and felt fortunate that she was involved in the storyline. On her departure, Gulliford told David Brown of the \"Radio Times\" that she felt accepted by the show's cast and crew, commenting, \"It was hard to say goodbye to Roxanna, who I've really enjoyed playing.\" Roxanna's death was nominated for Biggest OMG Soap moment and Most devastating Soap Death at the 2018 \"Digital Spy\" Reader Awards.\n\nJimmy Akingbola plays surgical registrar Antoine Malick. Akingbola had previously appeared in \"Holby City\" as a guest star, and impressed the producers to the extent that he was cast in a permanent role. Executive producer Belinda Campbell described Malick as \"a complex character who completely divides opinion amongst his Holby colleagues\", explaining: \"He absolutely refuses to play the political game and his bedside manner leaves a lot to be desired. However, there is no doubt he excels at his job and what would overwhelm other medics is like nectar to Malick.\" Akingbola deemed his character \"an alpha male who doesn't suffer fools gladly\". He explained that Malick aims to become a consultant, but has been held back from promotion due to his inability to engage in hospital politics. Akingbola stated that Malick has \"a lot of dark layers\", but will become calmer as the series goes on.\n\nCamilla Arfwedson portrays F1 doctor Zosia March who made her debut on 10 September 2013. Coming over as arrogant and stubborn, she clashes with both colleagues and patients, in particular Jac Naylor who has no time for her attitude although both are strikingly similar. By her own admission she is just doing what she has to do as her real interests lie with psychiatry and this is the specialty she wants to take. She has a brief sexual relationship with Arthur, she then becomes his flatmate and the two again begin an intimate relationship. She makes it clear to Arthur this is all she wants. When her father, Guy Self, becomes CEO, she wants nothing to do with him. The reason for this is unknown but her mother does seem to be an area of particular contention between the two. Later Zosia goes on to Darwin for her F2 training and Elliot Hope pairs her up with Mr Oliver Valentine. Zosia and Ollie become good friends and Ollie secretly likes Zosia but is too afraid to say. Before he can Zosia starts dating Sebastian Coulter who is a psychiatrist. Later Zosia breaks up with Seb after noticing she has feelings for Ollie and starts to date him. when an army surgeon comes to the hospital Zosia, Ollie and Guy are put on a case together but guy and Ollie clash and later Zosia has to pick who she would rather spend her birthday with her boyfriend Oliver or her father Guy. Zosia eventually chooses Ollie to Guy's disappointment.\n\nCara Martinez, played by Niamh Walsh, made her first screen appearance during the seventeenth series on 16 June 2015. Cara is a staff nurse on AAU. Of her character, Walsh stated \"Cara's a very capable nurse, and isn't afraid to speak her mind.\" Cara clashes with Raf di Lucca (Joseph McFadden) on her first day, but she is able to provide a fresh perspective on a patient's treatment. Walsh added that both Cara and Raf are \"strong-minded\". Cara departed \"Holby City\" on 23 June 2016, after a year with the show.\n\nIsaac Mayfield, played by Marc Elliott, made his first appearance in the eighteenth series episode \"The Lone Ranger\", broadcast on 23 June 2016. The character and Elliott's casting was announced on 12 April 2016. He was initially contracted for six months. Elliott, was best known for playing Syed Masood in \"EastEnders\", had his trademark long hair cut off before his audition for the role. Of his casting, Elliott said \"I'm pleased to be joining the team and looking forward to playing this complex, flawed character.\" Isaac is a general surgeon, who joins the Keller ward staff. He has a very charming but manipulative personality. He also became a love interest for Dominic Copeland (David Ames), and Jez Andrews (Lloyd Everitt). Isaac and Dominic end up in a toxic relationship which leads to Dom being beaten up on several occasions. Isaac is eventually outed for the domestic violence he has been hiding when Dom falls down a flight of stairs and old injuries are found while he gets treatment. Isaac is then suspended from working at the hospital.\n\nConor Mullen plays locum cardiothoracic consultant Stuart McElroy, who first appears in \"The Apprentice\" - series 10, episode 4 of the programme. Mullen was contracted for a period of 3–4 months. Upon assuming the role, Mullen said of his character: \"As a locum, Stuart knows he's not going to be at Holby for ever, so he doesn't care about hospital politics. Stuart also gets the nurses' back up a bit by making changes. The man's a bit of a renegade!\" The BBC described Stuart following his departure as \"a people person full of Irish charm. But he was also a deeply jealous alcoholic and needed to control the person he saw as 'his'.\" Stuart's time on the show sees him embark on a romantic relationship with sister Chrissie Williams. His jealous nature causes problems between them, and during a drunken row, he slashes her face with a scalpel. Hobley, who plays Chrissie, described the scene as \"shocking\" and \"hard to film\", revealing that she was three months pregnant at the time, but had not told anyone on set apart from Mullen \"so he knew not to be too rough\". Stuart is subsequently arrested, and makes his final appearance in series ten, episode 18, \"The Extra Mile\".\n\nAnna Mountford plays pediatric outreach nurse Keri McGrath, who appears from series three, episode two until series four, episode 41. Keri likes to party hard and often turns up to work with a hangover. Some of the children pick up on Keri's youthful attitude and run rings around her thinking she is a soft touch. At the start of series four, she gets drunk at a party and sleeps with Liam Evans. The next morning, Keri leaves the flat in tears and reports Liam for rape. The claim is eventually dropped and Liam's name is cleared. Keri leaves the show when Otter ward is written out of the serial.\n\nSarah Jane Potts plays Eddi McKee, a senior nurse, who first appears in the episode \"Rescue Me\". She portrays a no-nonsense, feisty and unsociable young woman, until she meets Luc Hemingway. She initially hates him and his smart-ass behaviour, partly as he frequently mentioned her alcohol problems. In the episodes \"Ribbons\", \"Unsafe Haven\" and \"Long Way Down\", her hatred towards him is shown to have decreased greatly, and she eventually enters a relationship with him. In \"Long Way Down\" Luc reveals it is his last day, and even though he was offered a permanent contract, for reasons unknown, he left without any warning. She takes it to mean that he couldn't commit to a relationship with her. After Luc's disappearance, she becomes somewhat emotionally unstable and moody, her ability to move forward is hindered by the constant reminders of him by colleagues. Eddi grows close to a locum, Max Schneider, who comes in to replace Luc. She left in the episode \"Chasing Demons\" after battling a drug addiction. In \"Hanssen/Hemingway\", it was shown that Eddi was now living in India.\n\nPhyllis Logan plays original character Muriel McKendrick, who appears in \"Holby City\" first nine episodes. Muriel is frequently at odds with Anton Meyer over beds on the wards. Muriel goes to the board and obtains four of Meyer's beds behind his back, and when he finds out he is furious. Muriel has a good working relationship with most of the staff, but is noted for her strict ways and no-nonsense personality.\n\nNicky McKendrick, played by Belinda Owusu, will make her first appearance in the sixty-third episode of series 19. The character and Owusu's casting details were announced on 29 September 2017, alongside those of Salma Haque who plays Nicky's best friend Meena Chowdhury. Nicky is an F1, who comes from a working class background. Both Nicky and Meena struggle to impress Jac Naylor (Rosie Marcel) and keep up with the pace of their rotation. Series producer Kate Hall commented that Nicky's friendship with Meena would be \"sorely tested\".\n\nLisa Faulkner plays PRHO Victoria Merrick, who appears from \"Holby City\" first episode until series three, episode 26. The character was killed off at Faulkner's request, who wanted to have a \"gruesome death\". She added that \"it’s only afterwards that you really realise it means you can never come back, even if you wanted to.\"\n\nVictoria is a surgeon who had a good grasp of the human anatomy but struggles to cope under the intense pressure of operations. Her father, Sir Charles Merrick, is an eminent surgeon and she struggles with his high expectations. Her boss, Anton Meyer, considers her an intelligent young woman with a lot of potential, but does not consider her to be suitable material for a surgeon and transfers her to the paedatric wing to work as a doctor. Victoria tries to convince him to reinstate her as a surgeon, but he insists the experience will be good for her. Victoria begins an operation on a young girl, which she decides to terminate. The girl's father cannot accept the decision, and stabs Victoria to death. He confesses to Meyer whilst they are trapped in a lift, before taking an overdose. Meyer is outraged and attempted to revive the man so that he can be brought to trial and punished for Victoria's murder, but is hampered by the lack of equipment available to him in the lift.\n\nGeorge Irving plays cardiothoracic consultant Anton Meyer from \"Holby City\" first episode until series four, episode 46. Irving had considerable input in creating the character, who was initially envisioned by the series producers as an Iranian surgeon named Hussein. At Irving's suggestion, Meyer became Hungarian, an emigrant to Britain following the 1956 Hungarian Revolution. Little of the backstory created for Meyer was ever revealed on-screen, as part of a deliberate bid to present the character as enigmatic, allowing viewers to project their own imagination onto him. Meyer is a sarcastic, arrogant surgeon, with high expectations of his colleagues. His major storylines see him operate on his own sister, fear that he may have Motor Neurone Disease, lose his spleen after being shot in a road rage incident, and ultimately depart from Holby for Michigan when the hospital Board make impositions on his autonomy. Irving made the decision to leave the series as he struggled to set the character aside outside of work, which had a negative impact on his personal life. He has ruled out the possibility of returning to \"Holby City\" in future, preferring his memory of Meyer to remain untarnished.\n\nMeyer proved popular with viewers and critics. Following the series launch, he was described by Jaci Steph of the \"Daily Mail\" as the series' \"only distinctive character\". Peter Paterson, also of the \"Daily Mail\", has deemed Meyer an asset to the show, which he finds \"feeble\" in Meyer's absence. Jim Shelley of \"The Mirror\" has described Meyer as \"one of the best characters on television in recent years\". Meyer was particularly well received by female fans, attaining sex-symbol status, described by journalist Lynda Lee-Potter as \"the kind of domineering, unsmiling hero who made Mills & Boon heroines swoon.\"\n\nPatsy Kensit plays ward sister Faye Morton. The character's introductory storyline, shot on location in Dubai, sees Faye leave her third husband for dead after a violent row. The fate of her previous husbands, and her intentions towards on-screen lover Joseph Byrne, later unravel in another special episode, this set on location in South Africa. Kensit was short-listed for the \"Best Actress\" award at the 2007 TV Quick and TV Choice Awards for her portrayal of Faye, within three months of arriving on the show. However, the dramaticism of the character's storylines and the manner in which they reflect upon real NHS nurses has come under criticism.\n\nRosie Marcel plays Cardiothoracic Consultant Jac Naylor. Her storylines focus on her attempts to gain promotion, going as far as to sleep with her boyfriend's influential father, and switch specialties from general to cardiothoracic surgery. She appears in a crossover episode with \"HolbyBlue\", when she is arrested for the attempted murder of a patient. After being cleared of the attack, Jac briefly becomes softer in her outlook, attempting to make amends with colleagues and dabbling with Catholicism. She then shared another relationship with Joseph Byrne, but then he announced that he was leaving to go to live in the country with his son Harry, and she denied his offer to go with him. She has been in an on/off relationship with Jonny Maconie for a while, and was shocked that she was pregnant with his baby, which has complications.\n\nSarah Preston plays ward sister Karen Newburn, who appears from series one, episode two until series two, episode 16. Karen has a good rapport with most of the staff, but puts them in their place if they do something she disagrees with. Karen is the ex-wife of registrar Nick Jordan. She agrees to give their relationship a second chance, but when their attempt at reconciliation fails, Nick leaves Holby. Karen's exit goes unexplained.\n\nAdam Best plays medical student Matt Parker. He appears from series seven, episode 29, until series nine, episode 24.\n\nOlga Fedori portrays ward sister Frieda Petrenko. Introduced as the cardiothoracic surgery ward's night shift sister, Frieda transfers to day shifts on the Acute Assessment Unit to cover the maternity leave of sister Chrissie Williams (Tina Hobley). Frieda has an initially antagonistic relationship with F2 doctor Penny Valentine (Emma Catherwood). When Penny learns that Frieda was a qualified doctor in her home country, Ukraine, she encourages her to retrain in the UK. Frieda resists the suggestion, but after being made redundant and having her diagnostic ability challenged by registrar Antoine Malick (Jimmy Akingbola), decides to apply for an F1 position, which she achieves early in 2011.\n\nThe official \"Holby City\" website describes Frieda as \"sincere, compassionate, supportive [and] honest\", but \"self conscious, emotionally closed [and] sarcastic.\" In 2011, Fedori was short-listed for the \"Best Newcomer\" award at the National Television Awards for her performance as Frieda. The award was ultimately won by \"EastEnders\" Ricky Norwood. Ian Cullen of Monsters and Critics lamented Fedori's loss, opining that her performance in \"Holby City\" is hilarious. Frieda has received critical acclaim, with the \"Daily Mirror\" Jim Shelley naming her the \"best character on television\". Shelley has included several of her one-liners in his regular \"Soundbites of the Week\" column, including her excuse: \"I saw it in one of your \"Carry On\" films. I thought he might like it\", delivered after inserting a sunflower into the rectum of a racist patient. Fellow \"Mirror\" critic Jane Simon has also praised Frieda, deeming her one of the series' most interesting characters. Simon describes her as a \"fearless, straight talking [...] super-nurse\", enjoying her ability to \"liven up the place with her unlikely combination of ghoulish demeanour and slapstick sense of humour.\" When a 2011 storyline featured Frieda facing redundancy, Simon commented, \"we would be gutted if she left. Her friendly scowl is one of the best things about the show.\"\n\nLuke Mably plays ward clerk Paul Ripley, who appears in the first three episodes of \"Holby City\". Paul is ordered to leave the hospital after he is seen kissing an unconscious girl in the high dependency unit.\n\nMatteo Rossini, played by Christian Vit, made his first appearance during the nineteenth series episode \"Parasite\", broadcast on 29 November 2016. Matteo is a consultant, who joins the team on the Darwin ward. The character's entrance sees him arriving at the hospital on horseback. Vit stated, \"Horseback riding doesn't scare him, so why not show up at the hospital on one? It's assertive, romantic and passionate – and he's not afraid to break the rules sometimes!\" Matteo's arrival will cause Jac Naylor (Rosie Marcel) to feel threatened and Vit teased a potential romance between the characters. Matteo has been dubbed the show's new \"Italian stallion\". Matteo later develops a relationship with fellow Cardiothoracic Consultant, Jac Naylor, which backfired\n\nKim Vithana plays midwife Rosie Sattar, who appears from series five, episode 32 until series seven, episode 13.\n\nDavid Paisley plays midwife Ben Saunders, appearing between series four, episode 17 and series five, episode 29. Ben is the first regular male homosexual character in the show. He has a crossover romance, with Tony Vincent from \"Casualty.\" The pair's frequent clashes and Ben's cheating with another man lead to a violent dock-side fight, as a result of which Tony suffers serious kidney damage. The two break up, and are unable to reconcile. Ben struggles with coming out as gay to his parents, and at one stage enlists the help of fellow midwife and good friend Lisa Fox. When Ben's car is stolen by the teenage son of colleague Steve Waring, a car chase ensues, resulting in a crash which traps both Ben and Steve inside Steve's car. Ben dies within minutes of being cut out of the vehicle.\n\nJohn Michie began playing Guy Self on 26 November 2013. Guy is \"Holby City Hospital\"'s former CEO, former director of surgery and consultant neurosurgeon. As of April 2015 Guy is director of Neurosurgery. Guy, who comes across as firm but fair, immediately clashes with then acting CEO Serena Campbell (Catherine Russell), consultant general surgeon Michael Spence (Hari Dhillon) and head of general surgery Ric Griffin (Hugh Quarshie) over patients and protocol. His colleagues, however, come onto his side when he shows his dedication to his staff by giving his backing to Serena in a difficult situation. It is later revealed that F1, Zosia March (Camilla Arfwedson) is his daughter and the two have a strained relationship following Zosia's mother's death. Zosia makes it clear to Guy that she wants nothing to do with him both personally and professionally. Prior to his arrival at HCH, he had a previously relationship with Colette Sheward (Louise Delamere).\n\nLaila Rouass appeared as surgeon Sahira Shah from February 2011. Announcing her casting, Daniel Kilkelly of media entertainment website \"Digital Spy\" described Sahira as a rival for Jac and love interest for Greg, who shares a \"dark history\" with Hanssen. Rouass was able to relate to the role as, like herself, Sahira is a mother attempting to balance her personal and professional lives. Executive producer Belinda Campbell stated that Rouass brought a \"fresh new energy\" to the series and that Sahira had been a \"joy to create\", commenting on the character: \"While on the surface she appears to be cool and calm, underneath it all, she is kicking madly just to keep afloat. It will be fascinating to explore what is really going on underneath the façade of perfection Sahira has created for herself. I'm sure her character will be someone a lot of viewers will recognise in themselves.\"\n\nJulie Saunders appears in the first nine episodes of \"Holby City\" as theatre sister Ellie Sharpe. Ellie has an affair with Nick Jordan. When her boyfriend finds out, he turns up at the hospital and he attacks Nick in the lift, leaving him with a split lip and damaged pride.\n\nJeremy Edwards plays healthcare assistant Danny Shaughnessy, who appears from series two, episode one until series five, episode 32. Danny works alongside his mother, ward sister Kath. he has relationships with Victoria Merrick and Diane Lloyd, and later trains as a student nurse on Otter ward. He eventually leaves to start a new life in Australia.\n\nLouise Delamere portrays Director of Nursing Colette Sheward. She made her first appearance in Series 16 on 3 December 2013 after coming to Holby with a previous patient of new CEO Guy Self to request his help with a difficult operation. Guy then offered her the Director of Nursing position. Guy and Colette's clearly have a professional history but it is unclear if this has ever crossed over into a Personal one. Following her appointment, the new Head of HR is unhappy at how Colette got the position via unofficial channels, shadows her for a day and, unhappy with her handling of her staff and delicate situations, decides the Director of Nursing position must be advertised, meaning Colette will have to reapply for her own job. Colette takes this on the chin and almost relishes the challenge.\n\nMorven Shreve (also Digby), played by Eleanor Fanyinka, made her first appearance during the seventeenth series on 30 June 2015. Fanyinka was working in a call centre when she learned that she had been cast as Morven. Morven is a Foundation Training Year 1 on AAU, under the mentorship of Arthur Digby (Rob Ostlere), who she hero-worships. Fanyinka explained that Morven knew Arthur from medical school and is intimidated by his reputation. When she becomes anxious, Morven uses cockney rhyming slang to ease tension. Fanyinka described her character as \"quite kooky\" and added \"Morven is really intelligent – it's just that her spatial awareness is a bit off!\" Fanyinka left the role in 2017 and Morven departed in the final episode of the nineteenth series, broadcast on 19 December 2017.\n\nHari Dhillon plays consultant general surgeon Michael Spence, who first appears in the episode \"Unfinished Symphony\" - series ten, episode six of the programme. Dhillon describes his character as: \"kind of the counterpoint to Ric Griffin. So he's just a little bit lippy; if he's thinking it, it's out of his mouth, and a total straight shooter, very direct.\" Michael is married to anaesthetist Annalese Carson. His storylines see him cheat on his wife with nurse Donna Jackson, with Dhillon explaining: \"(H)e's kind of a serial womaniser. [...] The trouble is, Michael had an affair at another hospital. He left because he wanted a clean slate. Essentially he wants to flirt - it's in his nature. With the introduction of the character, a new private ward was annexed to the hospital, known as HolbyCare.\n\nTom Chambers plays cardiothoracic registrar Sam Strachan. Chambers was cast as Sam after auditioning for the smaller role of an American doctor, and impressing casting director Julie Harkin so much that he was invited back to audition for the bigger role. The character takes a more serious turn after being diagnosed with Non-Hodgkin lymphoma, a storyline for which Tom Chambers actually shaved his own hair for realism. Sam has proved highly popular amongst fans of the show, voted in the 2007 fan awards \"Favourite All-Time Male\" character. However, he also attracted controversy when a scene in which he was depicted binge drinking caused drinks regulatory body the Portman Group to lodge an official complaint with OFCOM, for what they deemed a \"highly irresponsible portrayal of excessive and rapid drinking\". Sam leaves to go to America when his long lost son accepts a music scholarship there.\n\nIan Curtis plays staff nurse Ray Sykes, who appears from the first episode of \"Holby City\" until series two, episode 16. Ray is Darwin ward's comedian. He often engages in jokes with patients and enjoys match-making and gossiping. Ray is unsure of his sexuality and starts dating a former patient, Damien. When he tells Damien he wants to break up, Damien takes it badly and has another heart attack. Ray calls an ambulance and Kirstie Collins arrives, but is unable to save Damien, leaving Ray devastated.\n\nLa Charné Jolly plays Elizabeth Tait, a staff nurse who first appears in series twelve. Elizabeth is a recent university graduate, who worries she will be made unemployed when redundancies are made within the hospital. Series 12 Episode 35 - Series 14 Episode 2\n\nDominic Jephcott plays Alistair Taylor, a cardiothoracic consultant who appears from series four, episode 45 until series six, episode 33. Alistair has an unstable marriage with his wife and colleague Janice, with whom he has a daughter, Flora. The relationship collapses after he pursues an affair with ward sister Chrissie Williams. Alistair is killed off in the 2004 \"Casualty@Holby City\" crossover after escaping a fire by jumping out of a window.\n\nSiobhan Redmond plays consultant paediatrician Janice Taylor, who appears from series three, episode two until series four, episode 44. Janice is married to Alistair, who works at Holby on a locum basis on Darwin ward. She is initially oblivious to the fact that her husband has been having an affair with ward sister Chrissie Williams, until she finds out she is pregnant. Janice decides to keep the baby but move away from Alistair. Her last episode sees her have an emergency caesarean. Her baby, Flora, needs a heart operation which Alistair carries out. Flora survives, Janice thanks him, then departs from the series.\n\nChinna Wodu plays Sean Thompson, a Senior house officer who appears in series seven from episode six until episode 43. Sean is a love interest of nurse Jess Griffin. He initially believes he is the father of her baby, but even after she revealed the child is anaesthetist Zubin Khan's, he continues to support her. After Jess leaves him for Zubin, he transfers quietly to neighbouring hospital St. James'.\n\nJules Knight plays CT1 doctor Harry Tressler. Harry arrives on 14 May 2013 and makes an instant impression on the female staff of the hospital with his good looks and charm. He starts a brief fling with Mary-Claire. She becomes smitten with him but he tells her he never wanted a relationship. Early on he has problems with consultant Ric Griffin who believes him to be selfish and just interested in himself. Harry also often clashes with F2 Gemma Wilde and there is a clear spark between the two but Gemma is put off by Harry's reputation and attitude. After Gemma leaves, Harry becomes very upset and we see a new side to him. Harry does begin to show his true colours and ability going the extra mile for several patients and colleagues, even treating a homeless patient's dog. His friendship with Mary-Claire also blossoms and the two become good friends. His relationship with his colleagues also hugely improves with his seniors seeing his potential and valuing him as a member of the team.\n\nRakie Ayola plays nurse Kyla Tyson, who first appears in the series eight episode \"I'll Be Back\". Ayola had made a former minor appearance in the show several years prior to being cast as Kyla, and was asked to return in a more permanent role three years later. The character is the focus of a number of hard hitting plot strands, including being subjected to domestic abuse, having her son taken into foster care, and battling resultant alcoholism. In August 2006, Ayola was shortlisted for the \"Female Performance in TV\" award at the fourth Screen Nation Awards for her portrayal of the character, and was granted \"Honourable Mention\" in the same category the following year. Ayola chose not to renew her \"Holby City\" contract, in order to have a second child. She makes her final appearance in series eleven, when she decides between moving to Rotterdam with her son, or to Ghana with lover Abra Durant.\n\nJames Anderson plays Oliver \"Ollie\" Valentine, who first appears in series eleven, along with his sister, Penny, as a Foundation House Officer. Registrar Jac Naylor originally dislikes Oliver, but later realises that not only is he a good doctor, but he also tries to understand the patients, and has him transferred to the Acute Assessment Unit. On AAU, Oliver becomes friends with Chrissie Williams. They sleep together, and Chrissie becomes pregnant, but goes on to miscarry. Oliver is transferred to the general surgery ward, Keller, after annoying AAU lead Linden Cullen. Oliver works alongside Jac on Keller ward, and the two share a kiss, which Penny photographs and posts throughout the hospital. Oliver attempts to hide the photos from ward sister Daisha Anderson, who he is casually dating. When Daisha discovers the photos, she slaps him and ends their relationship. Oliver caused friction on Darwin when he treated a patient that nearly killed him and lied to Connie that Greg left him unsupervised to save his own skin. Greg however found out and got his own back at him by setting him up with a prostitute. On 1 March 2011, Oliver landed himself in hot water when the patient he made a mistake when closing him up a while ago was brought back on AAU. Under stress that the mistake would make him repeat his F2 year, tried to persuade Penny to take the blame. With an enquiry looming, Oliver snuck into Michael Spence's files and deleted his name from the list, trying to put Penny's name instead thus jeopardising her own career which had gone from strength to strength. However, he was eventually caught out by registrar Antoine Malick and was reported. When Penny found out what he tried to do, she said what he did was unforgivable and said he was \"Toxic\". It was then revealed that Oliver is actually practicing illegally, as he stole his sister's papers and passed them off as his own. Penny told him to admit it all to Michael Spence or she will, and gave him a deadline. Although the results showed that Oliver was innocent, he somewhat started to spiral out of control and breaks down in front of Penny when he confesses that he cheated on their final exams before starting work at Holby, passing her exam off as his, therefore not legally qualified to work as a Doctor. Penny was furious for what he did and told him that he has to confess his bombshell by the time she returns from annual leave, or she will. On the episode broadcast on 12 April 2011, Penny was killed saving a patient at the wreckage of a train crash, leaving Oliver to identify the body. He plans to tell the truth to Mallick, who convinces him not to tell anyone, saying that this conversation did not happen. Oliver is last seen in this episode sitting on a bench with Penny's belongings. Oliver starts a romantic relationship with F1 doctor Tara Lo (Jing Lusi); however, he is shocked when he learns that Tara has an inoperable brain tumour, and he goes into overdrive looking for cures. Weeks later he's move into Tara' flat, Tara's brain tumour grown and she decided to have operation to life-threatening operation to reduce her brain tumour. On the day before Tara's operation, they got married in front of Tara's parents and their friends and co-workers, Elliot Hope, Jac Naylor, Jonny Maconie and Mo Effanga at Holby hospital gardens. Since his return, he has been developing and fighting his feelings for Zosia March which later resulted in a love triangle as she was dating colleague, Sebastian Coulter.\n\nEmma Catherwood played Penny Valentine, who first appears in series eleven, along with her brother, Oliver, as a Foundation House Officer. Catherwood sat in on several bypass operations as preparation for the role. She also dyed her hair red, commenting: \"I think it suits Penny. She's quite feisty and ambitious and enjoys a friendly rivalry with her brother Oliver\". On her first day at the hospital, Penny proves herself confident but averse to becoming close to patients. Registrar Jac Naylor takes an instant dislike to her, and ignores her request to be transferred to AAU, instead placing her on Keller ward. After improving herself as a doctor on Keller, Penny is transferred to Darwin with Elliot Hope as her mentor. While working on Darwin, Penny secretly starts a relationship with patient Scott James, who requires a heart transplant. Elliot realises what has transpired between doctor and patient, and is disappointed with Penny. Disillusioned with her career, Penny decides to move to Spain with Scott, however Scott ends their relationship on Oliver's advice. Penny occasionally smokes, much to the disdain of her brother. Penny's full name is revealed to be Persephone, not, as might be supposed, Penelope. She died in the episode broadcast on 12 April 2011 after an accident at a train crash, her body was identified by her brother, Oliver.\n\nPeter de Jersey plays charge nurse Steve Waring, who appears from series three, episode two until series five, episode 31. Steve falls in love with nurse practitioner Jasmine Hopkins, and has an affair with her. His son, Robbie, finds out about the affair, but decides not to tell his mother. The relationship between Steve and Jasmine falls apart. Steve later has a relationship with registrar Diane Lloyd, and takes a new job working on AAU. When Robbie joyrides in a colleague's car, Steve chases him and is involved in a car accident, later dying from his injuries.\n\nPaul Henshall plays Dean West, a fourth year medical student who appears in \"Holby City\" from series seven, episode 29 until series nine, episode 24. The character has cerebral palsy and was introduced to the show as part of the BBC's commitment to diversity on television, with series producer Emma Turner explaining: \"The BBC aims to make \"Holby City\" truly representative of its audience and Paul is an essential ingredient of that.\" Henshall, who became the first disabled actor to feature permanently in a TV series, was cast after applying for the BBC's Talent Scheme, which also won him a role in the eighteenth series of sister show \"Casualty\". The role of Dean was created specifically for Henshall, who describes the character as: \"cheeky but kind hearted. He's probably not really as confident as he appears.\" Dean's storylines concentrate on his attempts to progress in his career despite his disability, and his friendship with fellow medical student Matt Parker. After falling out with Matt, Dean leaves to pursue a career opportunity in psychiatry. While Henshall stated: \"I never attempt to play Dean as a 'disabled character'. I just try to make him as real as I can as a person\", upon his departure from the series, he commented: \"I would have liked to see Dean doing more on the show and not always making mistakes and being a scapegoat. I wasn't happy that I'd seen myself described as being 'brought in to honour the BBC's commitment to disabled actors'; if Dean had done more on the show, they would have been able to talk about my storylines.\" With regards to public reception of the character, Henshall stated: \"I get a lot of positive responses about Dean. Some are from disabled people who see Dean as an inspiration and some from people who just think he's a great character.\"\n\nTy Glaser plays F1 Gemma Wilde, who joined the show in the fifteenth series episode \"Push the Button (Part 2)\". She departed during the following series.\n\nTina Hobley plays ward sister Chrissie Williams, the longest serving main character to date, having appeared in the programme since its third series. Chrissie is presented as a classic \"maneater\", with major storylines focusing around her affairs with colleagues Alistair Taylor, Owen Davis, Ed Keating, Mubbs Hussein, Michael Beauchamp and Sam Strachan. The character was written out of the series for a month in 2006, when Hobley was suspended for breaking her contractual agreement with the BBC not to appear on any other shows whilst starring in \"Holby City\". She returned in 2007, though was again temporarily written out whilst Hobley took maternity leave following the birth of her second daughter. Chrissie returned briefly in October 2008, before returning again in the February 2009 episode \"Take Her Breath Away\".\n\nRobert Powell plays consultant nurse Mark Williams, who arrives in \"Holby City\" in the series seven episode \"Stick or Twist\", as an addition to the series' existing Williams family, consisting of his daughter, Chrissie and wife Tricia. Powell commented that he took the role of Mark as: \"I've never done a drama series of this kind before. It's great fun being allowed to develop a character over years rather than weeks.\" Mark's major storylines center around his relationship with his family, having to deal with Tricia's breast cancer, the revelation that Chrissie is not his biological daughter, and Tricia's death in a road traffic accident. In the aftermath of Tricia's death, Mark is seen to battle a cocaine addiction - a storyline criticised by the media for its surrealism. Mark is now the CEO of the hospital after being involved in a new relationship with Judith Marchant.\n\nSharon Maughan plays Tricia Williams, a staff nurse and the mother of ward sister Chrissie Williams, who appears from series five, episode 27 until series nine, episode six.\n\nBerenice \"Bernie\" Wolfe, played by Jemma Redgrave, made her first appearance during the series eighteen episode \"Serenity\" on. The character and Redgrave's casting was announced on 3 September 2015. She was initially contracted for six months. Of Redgrave's casting, producer Oliver Kent stated, \"When we dreamed up the character of Bernie Wolfe, we immediately thought of Jemma Redgrave and we were utterly thrilled when she agreed to join the \"Holby\" Company. Bernie Wolfe will be a force to be reckoned with and I can't wait to see her locking horns with our established regulars on the wards\" Bernie was initially introduced as a patient, before she took up a role as a general surgeon on the Keller ward. She later joined AAU and began a relationship with Serena Campbell (Catherine Russell).\n\nLiam Garrigan plays Keller staff nurse Nic Yorke, who appears from series five, episode 36 until series six, episode 13. Nic is the brother of \"Keller Killer\" Kelly Yorke. Unaware that his sister is responsible for numerous patient deaths, he has a brief romance with staff nurse Sandy Harper, and is disappointed when she left Holby for Australia, to be with her old flame Danny Shaughnessy. Nic is accidentally killed when his sister causes a gas explosion.\n\nRachel Leskovac plays staff nurse Kelly Yorke, who appears from series five, episode 39, until series six, episode 17. Kelly is revealed to be a serial killer, responsible for multiple deaths on Keller ward. She kills herself after causing her brother Nic's death in an explosion.\n\nNadine Lewington plays SHO Maddy Young, introduced in the series nine episode \"Face Value\", as a sidekick to, and old friend of established character Dan Clifford. The character's storylines see her embark on a short-lived romance with Dan, and address hidden family secrets, including treating her escaped convict father, and attempting to help her heroin addict twin sister cover up the death of her daughter from a methadone overdose. The character proved popular with fans, and was long-listed for the \"Most Popular Newcomer\" award at the 2007 National Television Awards, as well as voted \"Holby City\" fans' \"Favourite Newcomer\" of series nine. However, in October 2007, the character came under criticism from drinks industry body the Portman Group, resulting from an incident of on-screen binge drinking, which the group lambasted as \"highly irresponsible.\" Maddy departs from the serial in series eleven after being stabbed to death by one of her sister's prison enemies.\n\nGinny Holder plays general surgical registrar Thandie-Abebe Griffin. She first appears in the series 9 episode \"Stargazer\" as the new fiancé of consultant Ric Griffin (Hugh Quarshie), having become engaged to him during his sabbatical in Uganda. Thandie struggles as a doctor, and has Ric write her a reference when her real one proves uncomplimentary. She accuses cardiothoracic consultant Elliot Hope (Paul Bradley) of racial discrimination when he comments on her poor performance. On her wedding day, it is revealed that Thandie never actually qualified as a doctor, and Ric breaks up with her, escorting her back to Uganda.\n\nThandie returns in series 12, hired as a locum cardiothoracic registrar. She makes amends with Elliot, though clashes with Ric, who files for divorce. Ric attempts to stop Thandie from being hired at the hospital on a permanent basis, however when she is investigated by the Home Office, he realises he still has feelings for her. Quarshie explained that upon Thandie's return, Ric initially believes her to be a \"terrible person\", however ultimately realises that he has been allowing his emotions to interfere with his work, and when Thandie correctly diagnoses a patient, he is impressed to realise that he has underestimated her medical ability. He and Thandie renew their relationship, until Thandie's terminally ill brother arrives and requests that Thandie euthanise him. Holder has commented that Thandie is \"horrified\" by his request, but ultimately complies out of mercy. Thandie's decision ends her relationship with Ric, as her husband is: \"a man of principle\" who \"doesn't agree with what she's done, but he does understand.\" Thandie then hands in her resignation and returns to Uganda with her brother's body. Holder has stated that there is a possibility Thandie may return in the future, revealing that she did not expect to return for the show's twelfth series, so could be invited back again.\n\nIdentical twins Iasabella and Scarlett Harrington Clark play Grace Beauchamp, the daughter of Connie Beauchamp (Amanda Mealing) and Sam Strachan (Tom Chambers). She first appears in the series nine episode \"Deep Dark Truthful Mirror\", broadcast on 1 May 2007. Grace is born seven weeks premature and in the breech position. Connie goes into labour while performing an operation on Lola Griffin (Sharon D. Clarke). Due to her complicated birth, Grace suffers severe complications and after receiving an ECG displaying minimal brain-stem activity, Connie decides to switch off Grace's life-support machine. While Connie refuses to hold her daughter, Sam decides to hold her. He realises that Grace can breathe unaided, delighting him and Connie. Despite not initially allowing Sam access to his daughter, Connie relents and grants him increased access.\n\nSam asks his friend Maddy Young (Nadine Lewington) to take care of Grace, but when Maddy leaves her unattended in the office, Susie Prendergast (Kelly Scott) kidnaps Grace, under the impression she is her sister. Susie's father begs Susie to return Grace but she threatens to drop Grace on her head. Sam and Maddy discover she is missing and begin to search for her; Sam begins to panic that she could be kidnapped and taken abroad. They find Susie and persuade her to return Grace, who is handed back to Connie. Months later, Grace falls down a staircase and is badly injured. She is rushed into the Pediatric Intensive Care Unit and undergoes surgery for a collapsed lung, which is successful. Sam later leaves Holby to live in New York. Over a year later, Grace and Connie also leave Holby to care for Connie's ill father. Following Connie's introduction to \"Holby City\" sister show \"Casualty\" in 2014, Grace is also introduced into the serial, portrayed by Emily Carey.\n\nAnthony Calf plays Michael Beauchamp, chairman of the hospital board and husband of cardiothoracic consultant Connie Beauchamp. He has a marked ruthless streak, on one occasion having his own wife removed from duty to cover up his negligence. He has an affair with ward sister Chrissie Williams, promoting her to matron because of their relationship. His corruption ultimately leads to his downfall. He covers up an outbreak of VRSA, which causes the death of several patients. Connie forces him to unwittingly confess, and Michael is arrested for manslaughter. He spends ten months in prison then is released on appeal.\n\nRonald Pickup plays Charles, Lord Byrne, a cardiothoracic consultant and the father of registrar Joseph Byrne. He works at Holby General's neighbouring hospital St. Luke's, and holds positions of power within the local medical sphere, including a role on the board of Holby's Trust. He has close ties to the Durant family, and is an old friend of the father of Abra Durant, for whom he finds research work after a brief spell at Holby General. He manipulates Connie Beauchamp to secure Joseph's position at the hospital, and constantly pushes his son to advance his career. His younger son, Harry, attempted suicide whilst a student at medical school, and is in a comatose state for several series before dying. Charles initially encourages the developing relationship between Joseph and general surgical registrar Jac Naylor, however after a hospital night out, he sleeps with Jac himself and begins an affair. When his wife, Anne-Marie, learns of his infidelity, she ends their marriage. Charles suffers a heart attack during series nine, and dies following surgery.\n\nJane Asher plays Anne-Marie, Lady Byrne, the wife of consultant Lord Byrne, and the mother of registrar Joseph Byrne. Anne-Marie first appears in the series nine episode \"After the Fall\". After making several guest appearances throughout series nine and ten, Asher signed a three-month contract to become a series regular from May 2008 onwards, for a period of 10 episodes. Her initial storyline saw her son's girlfriend, Jac Naylor, embark on an affair with Anne-Marie's own husband - eventually culminating in his death, and leaving the character a widow. Upon her return to \"Holby City\", she takes over Charles' position as Executive Chairman of the Byrne Foundation - a charity committed to research into Cardiac Valve Disease. She also begins a relationship with Joseph's mentor, Elliot Hope, which ends as he is still mourning his deceased wife Gina.\n\nAnna-Louise Plowman plays Annalese Carson, a locum consultant anaesthetist and the wife of general surgeon Michael Spence. Annalese arrives in series 11, discovering that her husband has had an affair with nurse Donna Jackson. Hari Dhillon has revealed of his character's relationship with his wife: \"I think Michael and Annalese are complements to each other. They are certainly very different to each other, but they understand one another, and have a deep, loving relationship. I'm starting to realize that Annalese is the one person in the world - along with his children - that Michael truly loves. [...] It would be unimaginable to Michael to envision a world without his wife. He certainly would never try to hurt Annalese deliberately, but he just loves attention from women.\"\n\nAfter confronting Michael about his affair, Annalese loses concentration during an operation, leading to the death of a patient. Michael attempts to cover up for her mistake, but in a random breathalyser test, Annalese tests positive for alcohol consumption. When cardiothoracic surgeon Connie Beauchamp discovers the result of the test, she has CEO Jayne Grayson admit Annalese's negligence to the patient's relatives, and Annalese is charged with manslaughter. Although she is acquitted of the charge, she is suspended from work and leaves the hospital, after telling Michael she is pregnant with their fourth child, but is leaving him over his infidelity. Annalese returns briefly in series eleven, when her daughter is admitted to hospital after falling down the stairs. After Michael and colleague Ric Griffin save her life, Annalese and Michael renew their relationship. She later gives birth to a son, Charlie. When Michael announces that Annalese has given birth, he jokingly tells his colleagues that the baby's name is Barack.\n\nA year later, Michael and Annalese are seeing a marriage counsellor, who, during their last session, collapses, having suffered a cardiac arrest. They get him to the hospital, though Annalese does not turn up to meet Michael after he comes out of surgery. She then throws him out of their home. A few weeks later, having left Michael several messages on his answering machine, Annalese arrives at the hospital and tells him that she wants a divorce. She later begins a relationship with Ric. Annalese later finds out Ric has Cancer.\n\nAnnalese returns in Series 14 after not appearing for some time. She announces that she and Michael's children are departing for a new life in America, devastating Michael. Ric attempts to make Michael see that he needs to let her move on, and eventually Michael and Annalese form a fragile truce. In the next episode, Michael's daughter Jasmine comes to Holby to spend the day with her father before their departure.\n\nFleur Fanshawe, played by Debbie Chazen, made her first appearance during the seventeenth series episode \"'Not Waving But Drowning'\". Chazen's casting was announced on 19 June 2014, and she was initially contracted for three months. Of joining the cast, the actress stated \"I am thrilled to be joining \"Holby\" as the outrageous Fleur – she's going to be a lot of fun to play! I can't wait to stir things up on Keller Ward and am looking forward to being able to tell my family that I'm a doctor at last.\" Fleur is a locum Consultant general surgeon. She is also an old friend of Michael Spence (Hari Dhillon). In March 2018, Chazen confirmed on her personal Twitter account that she had reprised her role. Fleur will return during the twentieth series on 20 June 2018. She is now the hospital's resident obstetrician, and a potential love interest for Serena Campbell (Catherine Russell).\n\nCarlos Fashola, played by David Bedella, is a plastic surgeon who appears between series six, episode 42 and series seven, episode 35. Carlos developed a relationship with Tricia Williams (Sharon Maughan).\n\nBen Richards plays physiotherapist Justin Fuller in series eight, from episode 23 to 37.\n\nStella Gonet plays CEO Jayne Grayson, who first appears in the series nine episode \"Under the Radar\". Gonet's casting as Jayne was announced on 15 June 2007, when Gonet said of joining the cast of \"Holby City\": \"I am absolutely delighted to be hiring and firing at Holby.\" The BBC describe Jayne as \"a witty and ambitious go-getter who strives relentlessly to achieve her aims\", but who \"thinks of herself as Solomon.\" Jayne's first official act as Holby City Hospital's new CEO is to investigate a fabricated racial discrimination allegation made against consultant cardiothoracic surgeon Elliot Hope by staff surgeon Thandie Abebe - making her immediately unpopular amongst the staff. In episode \"The Q Word\", it is revealed that prior to arriving at Holby, Jayne worked as a management consultant, and that when asked for help by her own father with his struggling business, she dismissed him from his position and took control of the company herself in a hostile takeover. In episode \"Temporary Insanity\", Jayne furthers her growing unpopularity amongst the staff by again turning down Abra Durant and Ric Griffin's proposals for charity operations at night. In July 2008, Jayne convinces the hospital's Board of Directors to create a Director of Surgery post. She has Connie Beauchamp and Ric Griffin apply for the job, secretly pitting them against each other by professing to support each of them. However, Jayne is successful in keeping the immigrant Tan family at Holby to have their baby rather than being deported back to a nation where they would be killed.\n\nAlex Macqueen plays Keith Greene, a consultant anaesthetist who is constantly maligned within the show for his poor sense of humour and irritable temper. He has featured in \"Holby City\" since its seventh series, becoming the show's Head of Anaesthetics following the departure of Zubin Khan. In episode \"The Key Is Fear\", Keith is verbally abused by a drunken Stuart McElroy, who surmises him to be an \"obsequious, supercilious, insipid four-eyed toss-pot.\" In the episode \"Breathe Deeply\", Greene collapses during surgery after becoming contaminated by a toxin from a patient. It causes him to stop breathing; resulting in him being intubated, though he goes on the make a full recovery. He tells Joseph Byrne that he was formerly married but Mrs. Greene divorced him. Greene applies for the Director of Surgery job, clashing with Connie Beauchamp, however neither of them get the position - which instead goes to general surgical consultant Michael Spence.\n\nMacqueen is set to depart the show in the near future to concentrate on other acting projects.\n\nJason Haynes, played by Jules Robertson, made his first appearance in the eighteenth series episode \"A Partnership, Literally\", broadcast on 9 February 2016. Robertson auditioned for the role in 2015 and competed with several actors for the part. The actor, who has autism, said \"I was really apprehensive but tinged with pride that I had been given this great opportunity. I was nervous about the challenge and did not know whether I would enjoy it but I was determined to do my best.\" Jason was introduced as the nephew of Serena Campbell (Catherine Russell). After Serena learned that her long-lost sister was dead, she emailed Jason asking to meet him and he turned up at Holby during Serena's shift. Jason has Asperger syndrome and Serena tries to understand his condition in the hope that they can build a relationship. Robertson described Jason as \"really nice and sensitive with a deadpan sense of humour and a genuine desire to do good\". He also said Jason's Asperger's causes him to take things said to him literally, which does cause problems for him and Serena. Robertson added that his character was \"more geeky and shy\" than himself.\n\nGillian Bevan plays Gina Hope, the wife of cardiothoracic consultant Elliot Hope, and mother of James and Martha Hope. Gina has Motor Neurone Disease, and as her condition deteriorates, she becomes increasingly bleak in her outlook - at one point having a DNR put on her records, which Elliot directly defies. When she collapses at home, he enlists Martha and registrar Joseph Byrne to aid him in fitting Gina with a tracheotomy against her express wishes. Although Gina thanks him for saving her, she soon returns to losing the will to continue. She refuses experimental treatment in Singapore, and after befriending Connie Beauchamp, goes away to Switzerland to commit assisted suicide. She changes her mind about not telling Elliot at the last minute, and he flies to Switzerland to join her as she ends her life. Gina's death occurs in series eight, episode 52, though the character reappears in series ten in a fantasy sequence in the episode \"Elliot's Wonderful Life\".\n\nHolly Lucas plays Martha Hope, the daughter and youngest child of Gina and Elliot Hope, and sister of James Hope. She first appears in \"Holby City\" in the episode \"Quality Time\", when she discovers her mother has Motor Neurone Disease. When Gina goes into respiratory arrest, she assists her father and Joseph Byrne in resuscitating her and surgically fitting a tracheotomy, against Gina's express wishes. After her mother's suicide, Martha relies heavily on Joseph, developing a crush on him much to the irritation of his girlfriend, Jac Naylor. She begins working in the hospital as a Healthcare Assistant, supporting her father through his grief. However, Elliot succeeds in convincing his daughter to return to university in the episode \"Can't Buy Me Love\". In series ten, episode nine, Martha is shot in the arm by STI nurse Tim, and is trapped in a lift with Chrissie when they try to escape. She survives, however, and returns in the eleventh series, having married in Las Vegas in secret.\n\nScott Adkins plays Bradley Hume, the Assistant General Manager of the Holby City Hospital PCT, who appears in series eight from episode 32 to 52.\n\nFredrik Johanssen, played by Billy Postlethwaite, is a general surgical registrar and Henrik Hanssen's (Guy Henry) son. He appears in the nineteenth series. Series producer Kate Hall noted that Postlethwaite and Henry are physically similar, which made it look like they are related. Upon his arrival at Holby, Fredrik is \"desperate\" to reconnect with his father. He also forms \"a jealous rivalry\" with junior doctor Dominic Copeland (David Ames). Fredrik later goes on a shooting spree around the hospital. He shoots Jac Naylor (Rosie Marcel) in the back, while Oliver Valentine (James Anderson) is shot in the head. Raf di Lucca (Joe McFadden) dies after being shot in the neck. Hanssen tries to reason with his son, but Fredrik is shot dead by armed police. A reporter for \"The People\" branded Fredrik \"sinister\".\n\nGraeme Garden plays recurring character Ed Loftwood, a cardiothoracic consultant and Clinical Lead at the hospital. He encourages Alex Adams to return to the hospital following his departure, and also has lab technician Reg Lund on his firm for a time. He opposes Connie Beauchamp's planned expansion of Darwin ward, however still recommends that she apply for his Clinical Lead position upon his retirement. Loftwood steps down from the position, but remains at the hospital in a surgical capacity.\n\nMartin Hancock plays Reg Lund, a medical researcher and registrar who appears from series seven, episode 37 until series eight, episode 32. He works in the hospital lab alongside Diane Lloyd, and explains to her that while he had been technically competent as a registrar, he found it hard to summon the people skills to work with patients, resulting in a number of fatalities. However, on several occasions he is able to aid both Diane and Abra Durant in emergency operations, and eventually moves to work on the Acute Assessment Unit. While there, he develops a crush on nurse Donna Jackson which goes unreciprocated. He confesses his love to her and attempts to convince her that her boyfriend, manager Bradley Hume does not really care for her. Although Donna eventually breaks up with Bradley, she explains to Reg that she values him as a friend and nothing more.\n\nLeslie Ash plays CEO Vanessa Lytton. Vanessa arrives in the episode \"The Spirit Dancing\" - series eleven, episode 52 of the programme, replacing former CEO Jayne Grayson. Ash was cast in the role after a five-year break from acting, due to complications arising from MRSA. As Ash is disabled, Vanessa walks with the aid of a walking stick. Ash has praised \"Holby City\" producers for their willingness to cast a disabled actress, though faced some media criticism for accepting the role, as she had previously received £5 million compensation for loss of earnings from the hospital at which she contracted MRSA. Vanessa is a \"scheming\", \"conniving and calculated\" executive, whose storylines see her clash with several members of the hospital's senior staff.\n\nShelagh McLeod plays clinical matron Judith Marchant. She initially clashes with consultant nurse Mark Williams, though they become closer when Mark supports her during a hard day. Mark's daughter Chrissie starts dislikes Judith when she discovers she suggested Mark be made redundant and they later clash when Chrissie accuses her of embarrassing her in front of her nurses. When Judith's son Connor is admitted to the hospital with alcohol poisoning, her ex-husband Paul arrives and blames Judith for not informing him sooner. Mark is hostile towards him and annoys Judith by interfering, so Mark then talks to Paul and they reach a truce, and Judith and Mark are friends again and decide to meet up on boxing day. Judith and Mark begin a romantic relationship. She loses her job when CEO Vanessa Lytton requires a scapegoat for a hospital scandal, and Judith decides to move to Manchester, where Paul is moving with Connor. She later returned in March to get a reference from Vanessa for another job. The reference is useless and Mark has been preoccupied with Daisha and hasn't taken the time to talk to Vanessa as he promised Judith he was. After a small confrontation they agree to meet in the cafe. When Mark doesn't turn up because he is with Daisha, Judith leaves a voicemail telling him it's over between them; she can't be second best again, and leaves for Manchester that night.\n\nJalaal Hartley appears in \"Holby City\" series ten and eleven as Tom O'Dowd, a friend of Leo Griffin, Ric's son. He is a heroin addict who dropped out of medical school, but re-enrols after Leo dies from an overdose. He works at Holby General as a student doctor, but begins using drugs again. Ric tells his father about his drug abuse, and Tom is disinherited in his will. When his father dies, Tom departs from the hospital.\n\nKieron Patel is the long-lost son of Sam Strachan (Tom Chambers). He was born when his parents were 17 years old, as a result he was brought up by his grandparents thinking his mum was his sister. Kieron comes to Holby and he meets Maria Kendall and his father. Kieron falls in love with Maria, creating a love triangle with Maria and Dad Sam. In the episode Maria's Christmas Carol, it shows Maria's past, present and future. In Maria's future it shows three years later that Maria has moved to the States and married Sam and is expecting his child. For three years Kieron did not play his violin because he lost all his passion for it when Maria broke his heart. He smashes it in anger when Maria tells him that she only ever loved him as a son. After running out of the apartment he deliberately steps out in front of a truck. Kieron is rushed to hospital with serious injuries and flatlines while on the operating table. Maria tells Sam that she cannot be with him because of Kieron's feelings for her and she does not want to be responsible for coming between Sam and his son, especially as he has such a distant relationship with his daughter Grace. Without knowing how his father feels about Maria, Kieron and Sam leave for the United States.\n\nAndrew Lewis plays recurring anaesthetist Paul Rose, the longest serving recurring character in \"Holby City\" to date. He first appears in series three, episode three. For his early appearances, Paul uses a wheelchair, however later returns able-bodied. The character's recovery mirrored the Lewis's real-life paralysis, which saw him able to regain the use of his legs after four years of physiotherapy, following a motorbike accident. Although Paul's disability and subsequent recovery are never directly addressed on screen, Lewis has revealed that the writers originally intended to cover it in depth, and idea which was later discarded so as not to \"trivialise the subject for those viewers who spend their whole lives in wheelchairs\".\n\nMeera Syal plays Tara Sodi, a cardiothoracic consultant who first appears in the series eleven episode \"Attachments\". She is an old university friend of Elliot Hope's, with whom she co-created a pioneering medical technique which resulted in the death of a child. Tara is described as \"a prickly character\" who rubs other doctors the wrong way. She was created to add a comedic presence to the series following the departure of Adrian Edmondson as Abra Durant. In preparation for the role, Syal observed real surgeons performing several operations. Tara arrives in Holby as a surprise for Elliot, who is celebrating his 50th birthday. She convinces him to attempt to repeat their pioneering medical technique on another child. Elliot initially refuses, but later changes his mind. The operation is successful and, impressed with Tara's experience and commitment to work, Jayne Grayson offers her a full-time contract. When Tara refuses to respect a patient's DNR order, she re-considers her future at the hospital, but is convinced to stay by Elliot, with whom she shares a kiss.\n\nPatrick Toomey plays recurring character Christopher Sutherland, who holds a managerial position at the hospital. He offers a consultancy position to Abra Durant, which he almost immediately revokes when Abra proved uncompliant with the will of the board - opposing Sutherland's plans to reserve one operating theatre for emergency cases only. He is instrumental in Abra's departure - hiring Dan Clifford to uncover the corruption he suspects within the general surgery department. He also convinces Connie Beauchamp not to leave Holby for Sweden by securing extra funding for the cardiothoracic department. He is seen to pit rival surgeons Dan Clifford and Ric Griffin against one another upon Ric's return from a sabbatical in Uganda. Towards the end of his tenure, he fires Lola Griffin after she proves resistant to hectic AAU workloads and attempts to cause drama in the local press about departmental overcrowding. When Sutherland refuses to pay for agency nurses, leading to a work to rule day amongst the nursing staff, Elliot Hope calls a vote of no confidence against him, and he is subsequently dismissed and replaced by Jayne Grayson.\n\nDerwood \"Mr T\" Thompson, played by Ben Hull, made his first screen appearance in the fourteenth series episode \"Stepping Up To The Plate\", broadcast on 3 July 2012. Hull was originally supposed to appear in one episode and was initially named Jake Thompson but his name changed when he became a recurring cast member. He explained \"I actually popped in and did one episode and they asked me to do another, then three, then six or nine.\" Mr T is an obstetrician and gynaecologist, who is \"hapless\" around women. Hull said his character was \"jokey and fun\". Bill Gibb for \"The Sunday Post\" observed that Mr T had become popular with viewers.. After a long running 'will they/won't they' relationship with Mo Effanga and an attempt to conceive a baby together as friends, Mr T almost married a bank nurse, Inga Olsen. Mo had lied to him and Inga, telling them that she wasn't carrying his baby when she infact was. Inga faked a pregnancy to trap Mr T as she knew that he was in love with Mo and believed Mo felt the same for him. Mo told Derwood's mother who announced it to the entire wedding and Mo later went into labour at the reception, letting Derwood know that he was delivering his own son, Hector.\n\nDerwood and Mo left together a few months later after Mo was offered a job in London.\n\nBonnie Wallis, played by Carlyss Peer, made her first screen appearance in the fifteenth series episode \"Like a Prayer\", broadcast on 8 October 2013. Bonnie was initially an agency nurse, but soon became staff nurse on Darwin. Bonnie began dating Jonny Maconie (Michael Thomson) and developed a rivalry with Jac Naylor (Rosie Marcel), who later gave birth to Jonny's daughter. Peer believed that Jonny did love Bonnie, but knew that she knew Jac would always have a place in Jonny's life because of their daughter. Jonny and Bonnie eventually became engaged, and Peer thought marriage would give the couple security. On the day of the wedding, Bonnie is killed after she crosses the road without looking and is hit by a truck. Peer revealed that she always knew Bonnie would be killed off at the end of her contract.\n\n"}
{"id": "8697516", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8697516", "title": "Charles D. Phelps", "text": "Charles D. Phelps\n\nCharles Dexter Phelps (September 16, 1937 – September 13, 1985) was a prominent American medical doctor, professor, and researcher in the field of ophthalmology. The clinical studies he oversaw contributed to significant advances in the scientific understanding and surgical and pharmacological treatment of glaucoma.\n\nBorn in San Antonio, Texas, and raised in Waterloo, Iowa, Phelps was the eldest of four sons, all of whom became medical doctors or scientists, born to Gardner Dexter Phelps, M.D., a private-practice ophthalmologist, and Virginia Kuning Phelps.\n\nPhelps earned his undergraduate (B.A., 1959; Phi Beta Kappa) and medical (M.D., 1963; Alpha Omega Alpha) degrees at the University of Iowa in Iowa City. He completed an internship at Boston City Hospital between 1963 and 1964, and a residency there in internal medicine in the following year. From 1965 to 1967, he served in the United States Air Force as a doctor at Andrews Air Force Base near Washington, D.C.\n\nIn 1967, Phelps returned to Iowa City to work for a year as an NIH postdoctoral fellow under Mansour F. Armaly in the University of Iowa's glaucoma research laboratory, an experience that persuaded him to become a glaucoma specialist. He continued at the university as a resident in ophthalmology from 1968 to 1971. For the following year, he was an NIH special fellow under Bernard Becker in the department of ophthalmology at Washington University in St. Louis.\n\nReturning to the University of Iowa College of Medicine in 1972 to join its faculty, Phelps succeeded his mentor Armaly as director of the department of ophthalmology's glaucoma service. He attended to hundreds of patients, educated scores of medical students, and wrote dozens of articles for medical journals reporting on the findings of the medical studies he oversaw.\n\nIn 1984, after rising to the rank of full professor, Phelps was appointed chair of the university's ophthalmology department, widely recognized as one of the foremost eye clinics in the country. Soon afterward, he was diagnosed with cancer. He died eighteen months later at the age of 47, survived by his wife Margaret Dorsey Phelps, whom he married in 1964, his four children, his parents, and his brothers.\n\nPhelps was a founding member of the American Glaucoma Society. At its first meeting, convened in his honor in Iowa City in 1987, a Hawthorn tree was planted, which still stands outside the ophthalmology department, to commemorate his life and contributions. In a keynote address, Armaly described him as \"a prolific contributor of new knowledge\" who left a \"scientific legacy admirable in its size, variety, and quality,\" concluding, \"There is hardly an area in glaucoma that did not interest him and benefit from his research effort.\"\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49227002", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49227002", "title": "Chong Hon Nyan", "text": "Chong Hon Nyan\n\nTan Sri Chong Hon Nyan (; born 21 June 1924, Kuala Lumpur) is a Malaysian politician of Chinese descent.\n\nHe is the former Minister of Health and Minister of Transport.\n\n"}
{"id": "3595774", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3595774", "title": "Dr. Fritz", "text": "Dr. Fritz\n\nAdolf Fritz, generally called Dr. Fritz (Munich, ? – Estonia, 1918), was a hypothetical German surgeon whose spirit has allegedly been channeled by several Brazilian psychic surgeons, starting with Zé Arigó in the 1950s and continuing up to the present. There is no proof that he actually existed.\n\nIn the 1950s, psychic surgeon Zé Arigó (1918–1971) claimed to be operating as a channel for the spirit of a Dr. Adolf Fritz, a German doctor who had died in World War I. Arigó became famous in Brazil and abroad, and was the subject of documentaries and books. Soon after predicting his own death, he died in an automobile accident.\n\nAfter Arigó's death in a car accident, two brothers, Oscar and Edivaldo Wilde, claimed to channel the spirit of Dr. Fritz. Their careers were cut short when both died in violent car crashes.\n\nFollowing them was Edson Quieroz, a gynecologist. Quieroz treated hundreds of thousands of patients in the guise of Dr. Fritz, while further advancing the techniques of Arigó. He, too, met a violent death at the hand of a knife-wielding assailant.\n\nAfter Quieroz's death, Dr. Fritz has been allegedly channeled by Rubens Farias Jr. (1954– ) of São Paulo; who claims that Dr. Fritz has predicted his own violent death. More recently Dr. Fritz manifests himself through Mr. Kleber Aran Ferreira da Silva who successfully attends patients on a monthly base and free of charge in Maceió, Aracajú, Salvador and São Paulo.\n\nSeveral other mediums have been reportedly able to channel Dr. Fritz' spirit. Most times operations are performed with the tip of the finger, no physical incision necessary, even though in some cases a light scar of the incision as well as of the stitches can be shortly seen. When asked about the improbability of the same spirit being channeled by more than one medium at the same time, some entities have indicated that the spirit does not follow the same rules of time and space that we do and, therefore, wields such an ability.\n\nIn a mediunic interview, channeled by Arigó, the spirit of Dr. Fritz said that he had been born in Munich. His father suffered from asthma and a doctor recommended that he move to a place with a better climate, so the family moved to Poland when the boy was only four years old. Forced to work when he was young because of his parent's premature death, Fritz studied medicine on his own. One month before graduating, a general came into his office with his daughter in his arms, and despite his efforts, Fritz could not save her. The officer accused Fritz of her death and had him put in jail, where he suffered all sorts of tortures. He escaped from the jail and fled to Estonia, where he lived from 1914 until his death in 1918.\n\nExhaustive research has found no mention of a doctor with any of those names in German records. Followers of Arigó have retorted that the name provided by the spirit, as well as the German-like accent of his channels, were probably faked by Dr. Fritz himself, in order to preserve his true identity. Skeptics insist that the psychic surgeons themselves have invented the entity.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11809053", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11809053", "title": "Elizabeth Neilson", "text": "Elizabeth Neilson\n\nElizabeth A. \"Betty\" Neilson, EDD (October 13, 1911 – October 4, 2001) was a prominent figure in the field of health education and a leader in promoting the wellness and holistic health perspectives in public health.\n\nShe was born in West Medford, Massachusetts, the daughter of William and Anatasia (Mahoney) Neilson. She graduated from Medford High School in Medford, Massachusetts. She then attended Boston Bouve College and Northeastern University. She graduated from Boston University with a doctorate in education. \n\nNeilson began her teaching career at the Brimmer May School in Chestnut Hill, Brookline, Massachusetts, followed by teaching in the Medford Public Schools for several years. She subsequently joined the faculty of Lowell State College where she became a full professor, then went to Boston College where she became professor and chair in the Department of Health and Physical Education for several years. Her last academic position was at Kent State University in Kent, Ohio where she was Adjunct Professor in the Department of Health Sciences. \n\nShe was the coauthor of numerous health textbooks and teachers’ guides. She was the founder and editor-in-chief of the journal Health Values - Achieving High Level Wellness. \nShe also contributed articles to other journal and newsletters including Journal School of Health, Journal of Health, Physical Education and Recreation, Massachusetts Teacher, Teaching About Drugs, Teaching About Vision, and Dental Health Today. \n\nShe was active in the American School Health Association (ASHA) holding numerous positions including service on the Membership Committee, Governing Council, National Advisory Council, and the Editorial Board of the Journal of School Health. In 1968 she became President of the American School Health Association.\n\nShe served on the board of directors for the American Diabetes Association, the American Heart Association, the National Mental Health Association, the Massachusetts Cancer Society, the Middlesex Tuberculosis and Health Association, and the March Against Dental Disease Foundation. She was also a member of the National Alumni Council of Boston University. \n\nShe was the recipient of a number of awards including: the Boston-Bouver College of Human Development Distinguished Services Award, the Northeastern University Distinguished Alumni Award in Health Sciences, and the William A Howe Award from the American School Health Association. She was awarded fellowships in the American School Health Association, the National Honor Society for Women in Education, Pi Lambda Theta, and the Royal Society for Health.\n"}
{"id": "55986971", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55986971", "title": "Fibula (penile)", "text": "Fibula (penile)\n\nA penile fibula is foremost a ring, attached with a pin through the foreskin to fasten it above the glans penis. It was mainly used by ancient Roman culture, though it may have originated earlier. This ring type of fibula has been described akin to a \"large modern safety pin\". Its usage may have had several reasons, for example to avoid intercourse, to promote modesty or the belief that it helped preserve a man's voice. Some Jews also utilized fibulas to hide that they were circumcised. The word fibula could also be used in general in Rome to denote any type of covering of the penis (such as with a sheath) for the sake of voice preservation or sexual abstinence, it was often used by masters on their slaves for this purpose. Fibulas were frequent subject of ridicule among satirists in Rome.\n\n"}
{"id": "14330227", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14330227", "title": "GISSI", "text": "GISSI\n\nThe Gruppo Italiano per lo Studio della Sopravvivenza nell'Infarto Miocardico (GISSI) (Italian group for the study of the survival of Myocardial Infarction) is an influential cardiology research group founded as a collaboration between two Italian organisations – the Mario Negri Institute and the Associazione Nazionale dei Medici Cardiologi Ospedalieri (ANMCO). The trials carried out by GISSI have \"obtained wide recognition in the international world of cardiology and are considered a methodological landmark\". Four large-scale clinical trials over the past 20 years (GISSI 1, GISSI 2, GISSI 3, GISSI Prevention) have involved more than 60,000 patients with acute myocardial infarction (AMI).\n\n"}
{"id": "2831247", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2831247", "title": "Hair washing", "text": "Hair washing\n\nHair washing is the cosmetic act of keeping hair clean by washing it with shampoo or other detergent products and water. Hair conditioner may also be used to improve hair's texture and manageability. Two-in-one shampoos, which have both detergent and conditioning components, are now commonly also used as a replacement for shampoo and conditioner. \n\nTo remove the sebum from the hair, some people apply a surfactant, most usually shampoo, but sometimes soap to their hair and lather the surfactant with water. The surfactant is rinsed out with water along with the freed dirt and dust it bonds to.\n\nThere are also dry shampoos, which are powders which remove sebum from the hair by soaking it up prior to being combed out.\n\nMost hairdressers, in countries such as Canada, the U.S., and European and Latin American countries, offer a hair wash as a service before or after a hair cut. This is usually done to make hair more manageable for the hairdresser who will be performing the hair cut. After a hair cut, it can help remove any loose strands of hair that may be bothersome to the client. It is also quite a relaxing practice, and many clients enjoy a hair wash as their favourite part of a hair cut.\nHairdressers use specialized basins to perform a hair wash, and these can be either forward or backward style. \n\nIn the backward version (which is more common), the client sits down in a chair, and leans their head back into a sink, with the hairdresser standing behind them. \nIn the forward version, the client leans forwards over a sink, and the hairdresser stands over them to wash their hair. \nIn some parts of the world, such as China, it is not uncommon to see what is referred to as an 'upright' shampoo. In this style, the client simply sits in a chair as they normally would, while a hairdresser applies shampoo to their hair and adds water. They then rinse out in a basin.\n\n"}
{"id": "5784253", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5784253", "title": "Health in Cuba", "text": "Health in Cuba\n\nHealth in Cuba refers to the overall health of the population of Cuba.\n\nThere was an overall improvement in \"Health in Cuba\" in terms of disease and infant mortality rates after the revolution. Like the rest of the Cuban economy, Cuban medical care suffered following the end of Soviet subsidies in 1991; the stepping up of the US embargo against Cuba at this time also had an effect. Cuba has one of the highest life expectancy rates in the region, with the average citizen living to 78.05 years old (in comparison to the United States' 78.62 years).\n\nIn the 1950s, the island had some of the most positive health indices in the Americas, not far behind the United States and Canada. Cuba was one of the leaders in life expectancy, and the number of doctors per thousand of the population ranked above Britain, France and the Netherlands. In Latin America it ranked in third place after Uruguay and Argentina.\nThere remained marked inequalities however. Most of Cuba's doctors were based in the relatively prosperous cities and regional towns, and conditions in rural areas, notably Oriente, were significantly worse. The mortality rate was the third lowest in the world. According to the World Health Organization, the island had the lowest infant mortality rate of Latin America.\n\nFollowing the Revolution and the subsequent United States embargo against Cuba, an increase in disease and infant mortality worsened in the 1960s. The new Cuban government asserted that universal healthcare was to become a priority of state planning. In 1960 revolutionary and physician Che Guevara outlined his aims for the future of Cuban healthcare in an essay entitled \"On Revolutionary Medicine\", stating: \"The work that today is entrusted to the Ministry of Health and similar organizations is to provide public health services for the greatest possible number of persons, institute a program of preventive medicine, and orient the public to the performance of hygienic practices.\"\n\nThe loss of Soviet subsidies brought food shortages to Cuba in the early 1990s.\n\nA Canadian Medical Association Journal paper states that \"The famine in Cuba during the Special Period was caused by political and economic factors similar to the ones that caused a famine in North Korea in the mid-1990s. Both countries were run by authoritarian regimes that denied ordinary people the food to which they were entitled when the public food distribution collapsed; priority was given to the elite classes and the military.\" The regime did not accept donations of food, medicines and money from the US until 1993.\n\nMalnutrition created epidemics, but it had positive effects too. Manuel Franco describes the Special Period as \"the first, and probably the only, natural experiment, born of unfortunate circumstances, where large effects on diabetes, cardiovascular disease and all-cause mortality have been related to sustained population-wide weight loss as a result of increased physical activity and reduced caloric intake\".\n\nLife expectancy at birth in Cuba in 1955 was 63 years.\nIn 1960 it was 63.9 years.\nTo put these values in context, life expectancy at birth in some other regions and countries in 1960 were as follows (World Bank data):World, 50.18 years;Latin America and Caribbean, 56.21 years;high-income OECD countries, 69.01 years;United States, 69.77 years.\n\nIn 2007, the life expectancies at birth were as follows (World Bank data):Cuba, 78.26 years;World, 68.76 years;Latin America and Caribbean, 73.13 years;high income OECD countries, 79.66 years;United States, 77.99 years.\n\nThe mortality rate for children under five years old was 54 per 1000 in Cuba in 1960 (World Bank).\nThat year in Latin America and the Caribbean it was 154.66 per 1000; in the high-income OECD countries it was 43.11; in the United States, 30.2. No World datum is available for 1960, but for 1970 it was 145.67 per 1000 (all World Bank data).\n\nThe mortality rates for children under five in 2007 were as follows (World Bank):Cuba, 6.5;World, 68.01;Latin America and Caribbean, 26.37;high-income OECD, 5.71;United States, 7.60.\n\nInfant mortality was 32 per 1000 live births in Cuba in 1957. In 2000–2005 it was 6.1 per 1000 in Cuba; and, for comparison, 6.8 per 1000 in the United States. The 2007 infant mortality rates published by the World Health Organisation in 2009 were:\nCuba, 5;\nWorld, 46;\nHigh income countries, 6;\nUnited States, 6.\n\nThe table below shows CEPAL (United nations) data spanning the pre- and post-revolutionary periods for three public health indicators. Health levels were better than the Latin American average before the revolution and showed continued steady improvement throughout the post-revolutionary period. The total mortality rate shown is the crude – \"i.e.\", not age-adjusted – rate, and therefore tends to rise as the proportion of elderly people in the population increases, which has been the case in Cuba because the birth rate is falling and life expectancy is rising.\nCuba began a food rationing program in 1962 to guarantee all citizens a low-priced basket of basic foods. As of 2007, the government was spending about $1 billion annually to subsidise the food ration. The ration would cost about $50 at an average grocery store in the United States, but the Cuban citizen pays only $1.20 for it. The ration includes rice, legumes, potatoes, bread, eggs, and a small amount of meat. It provides about 30 to 70 percent of the 3,300 kilocalories that the average Cuban consumes daily. The people obtain the rest of their food from government stores (\"Tiendas\"), free market stores and cooperatives, barter, their own gardens, and the black market.\n\nAccording to the Pan American Health Organization, daily caloric intake per person in various places in 2003 were as follows (unit is kilocalories):\nCuba, 3,286;\nAmerica, 3,205;\nLatin America and the Caribbean, 2,875;\nLatin Caribbean countries, 2,593;\nUnited States, 3,754.\nThe reasons people die in Cuba tend to be the same as in high-income, developed, countries. The table at right shows the relative seriousness of communicable diseases, non-communicable diseases (e.g., heart disease and cancer) and injuries, in various parts of the world. Data is from the World Health Organisation and is for year 2004.\n\nDiseases of the circulatory system are the most common cause of death in Cuba, killing 306 people per 100,000 population in 2005. Neoplasms (cancer) are second, killing 173 per 100,000 population in 2005. The numbers killed by some other causes, in 2005 per 100,000 population, were: influenza and pneumonia 64, accidents 40, diabetes mellitus 18, intentional self-harm (suicide) 12, cirrhosis and other chronic liver diseases 10. Total mortality per 100,000 population was 754.\n\nAbortion rates, which are high in Cuba, increased dramatically during the 1980s, but had almost halved by 1999 and declined to near-1970s levels of 32.0 per 1000 pregnancies. The rate is still among the highest in Latin America.\n\nAmong adults less than 49 years old, accidents are the leading cause of death, though occupational accidents have declined significantly in the last decade. The homicide rate is 7.0 per 100,000. The rate of suicide in the island is higher than average in Latin America and has been among the highest in the region and the world since the nineteenth century. Annual suicide deaths per 100,000 population (2003–2005 data) were: Cuba 13.6, Americas 7.7, Latin America and Caribbean 5.8, Latin Caribbean 8.7, United States 10.8.\nAmong older adults heart disease and cancer predominate as causes of mortality. General mortality has been \"characterized by a marked predominance of causes associated with chronic noncommunicable diseases\", according to the Pan American Health Organization.\n\nWhile preventive medical care, diagnostic tests and medication for hospitalized patients are free, some aspects of healthcare are paid for by the patient. Items which are paid by patients who can afford it are: drugs prescribed on an outpatient basis, hearing, dental, and orthopedic processes, wheelchairs and crutches. When a patient can obtain these items at state stores, prices tend to be low as these items are subsidized by the state. For patients on a low-income, these items are free of charge.\n\nHealthcare in Cuba\n"}
{"id": "38908307", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38908307", "title": "Health in Senegal", "text": "Health in Senegal\n\nExpenditure on health in Senegal was 4.7% of GDP in 2014, US$107 per capita. \n\nLife expectancy at birth was estimated as 65 years for men in 2016 and 69 for women.\n\nIn 2001 data, 54% of the population of Senegal was below the poverty line, which has implications on people's wellbeing. Common medical problems in Senegal include child mortality, maternal death, malaria, and sexual diseases including HIV/AIDS. There is a high disparity in both the quality and extent of health services between urban and rural areas. The greatest problems in public health are in the East and South (Louga, Kaolack, and Tambacounda) and the region of Casamance.\n\nA number of diseases continue to afflict persons who live in and travel to Senegal, some of which are related to Senegal's tropical climate. One of the most prominent diseases is malaria, a parasitic disease transmitted by mosquito bites. One of Senegal's strategies for combating malaria has been the National Program for the Fight Against Malaria. Other diseases affecting Senegal include:\n\nThe rate of HIV/AIDS in Senegal is one of the lowest in Africa, at approximately 0.9%. According to the UNAIDS, the proportion of adults between the ages of 15 and 49 with HIV/AIDS is approximately 0.9%. The Casamance region has the highest prevalence of HIV/AIDS at 2.0%, which can be attributed in part to the Casamance conflict. There are about 59,000 people in Senegal living with HIV/AIDS, according to a 2009 estimate.\n\nA number of healthcare concerns afflict women in particular, among them female genital mutilation, maternal healthcare, and gendered healthcare discrepancies. Further, the restructuring of the health care system has also affected women significantly.\n\nAbout 20 percent of Senegalese women undergo female genital mutilation of some kind, with the most prevalent procedure being the removal of the tip of the clitoris, according to the National Program Against Female Genital Mutilation. It is not widespread among the Wolof or Serer, but is more common among the Fulani, the Diola, the Toucouleurs and the Mandingo. Notably, FGM has no Islamic basis.\nThe birth rate in Senegal is about 36.19 births per 1000 people, according to a 2012 estimate. The fertility rate, according to 2007 estimates, is relatively high, with an average of 5 children per woman. Moreover, the infant mortality rate is 55.16 deaths per 1,000 live births, and the infant mortality rate of males is slightly higher than that of females.\n\nThere are many cultural and social barriers that limit abortion in Senegal. Studies have shown that there is strong opposition, from both men and women, to women's individual choice and agency with abortions, family planning, and sexual health. Therapeutic abortion is allowed to protect a woman's health or life if threatened by pregnancy, but abortion of any other kind is banned.\n\nChildren's health in Senegal is of primary concern to development strategists, and is heavily influenced by the health, education, and wellbeing of women. According to data from 2005, 14.5% percent of Senegalese children under the age of 5 were underweight. Only 42% of children between 12 and 23 months received all necessary vaccinations. Children whose mothers have a primary education have a lower prevalence of malnutrition, and children whose mothers have advanced education are most likely to have the lowest incidence of malnutrition.\n\nRates of malnutrition are most pronounced among infants between one and two years old. Barriers to children's health include:\n\n\nThe nutritional health conditions of children less than five years old may relate to the age as well as the child's cycle of life, the size and place of residence, elements linked to the household environment such as the nature of the soil of the housing, the source of supply in drinking water, the evacuation mode of the domestic garbage, and the mother's level of education.\n"}
{"id": "39696782", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39696782", "title": "International Olive Council", "text": "International Olive Council\n\nThe International Olive Council (IOC) (formerly the International Olive Oil Council (IOOC)) is an intergovernmental organisation of states that produce olives or products derived from olives, such as olive oil.\n\nThe IOOC had its genesis in the International Agreement on Olive Oil, which was concluded in Geneva on 17 October 1955. After this treaty was amended and the amended version came into force, the IOOC was established under this treaty in 1959, with headquarters in Madrid. This first agreement remained in force until 1963, when a second agreement was negotiated. The organisation was governed by the following agreements during the time spans indicated:\nA new Agreement was negotiated and concluded In October 2015 and will be open for signature throughout 2016. In 2006, the International Olive Oil Council changed its name to the International Olive Council in recognition of the fact that the Council is also involved in the field of table olives (the name of its governing Agreement had recognised this since 1986).\n\nThe IOC currently has 17 state members plus the European Union. These states account for over 98 per cent of the world's olive production. The following states of the IOC are below (the year of the state's first ratification of one of the Agreements is included; an asterisk indicates that the state was a founding member of the IOOC):\nBecause the IOC is an international, intergovernmental organisation, membership is only open to the Governments of States or to international organisations with responsibilities in the negotiation, conclusion and application of international agreements, especially commodity agreements.\nIf a country is interested in joining, its government submits an application to the Council of Members, usually through its Ministry of Foreign Affairs or another ministry, or through its embassy in Spain.\nThe Council of Members examines the application and determines the conditions of accession of the applicant country. This includes fixing the number of participation shares in the IOC budget and setting a time limit for the country to file its instrument of accession with the depository of the Agreement. As soon as the applicant deposits its instrument it becomes a Member.\nPrivate companies or individuals cannot join the IOC.\n\nThree categories of observer are allowed to attend all or part of IOC sessions, provided they have the prior consent of the Council of Members. \n\nThe IOC has been headquartered in Madrid since it was founded in 1959. The rights, immunities and privileges of the IOC headquarters, staff and representatives are stipulated in a Headquarters Agreement signed with the Kingdom of Spain, which is the host country of the Organisation.\n\nThe IOC has five official languages (Arabic, English, French, Italian and Spanish) and two working languages (English and French).\n\nThe IOC is funded through compulsory contributions paid by its Member States. Contributions are calculated each year according to the number of participation shares awarded to each Member in the IOC budget.\n\nThe structure of the IOC is quite simple. It revolves around the key figures of the Council of Members and its committees, the IOC chair and the Executive Secretariat.\n\nThe Council of Members is the principal decision-making body of the IOC. It is made up of one delegate per Member, who is assisted by alternates and advisers. It meets at least once a year to review IOC work and to approve the action programme and budget for the next year. \nThe Council of Members takes decisions by consensus. If consensus is not reached, decision making is done by a qualified majority.\n\nThe committees discuss and lay the groundwork for proposals and three-year action plans which are then submitted to the Council of Members. The IOC has five committees: \n\nThe Council of Members elects a chairperson who serves a one-year term of office, which is rotated among the IOC Members. The chairperson plays a vital part in the life of the Organisation and carries out many duties, most importantly presiding over meetings and sessions and representing the IOC legally. \nA vice-chair is also elected each year and succeeds to the chair the following year.\n\nThe IOC is served by a Secretariat headed by an Executive Director, who is assisted by senior officials and other staff. The Executive Secretariat is the operative arm of the IOC, implementing its decisions and strategy and serving the needs of its Members. It is made up of six Units: Economic Survey Unit, Technical Unit, Chemistry & Standardisation Unit, Promotion Unit, Administrative Unit and Financial Unit.\n\nSome very important aspects of the IOC work is to promote consumer confidence, stimulate international trade and to prevent fraud. The IOC has two trade standards: \nPart of the remit of the IOC is to ensure compliance with the latest food technology standards by working very closely with leading chemists from its member countries who contribute their knowledge and expertise. \n\nIt also cooperates with other international organisations such as the International Organization for Standardization (ISO) or the Codex Alimentarius Commission in order to ensure their testing methods and standards remain updated and compatible or comparable with the standards of other relevant agencies. \nTo avoid confusion IOC Members are committed to prohibiting the use of any product names other than those explicitly specified in the IOC standard.\n\nThe olive oil standard fixes the names and definitions of the different categories of olive oils and olive pomace oils as well the quality and purity criteria for each grade of product.\nThe table olive standard fixes the names, definitions and requirements for all the common varieties, the pickling or preservative methods as well as trade preparations of table olives such as pastes and decorative presentations.\nThe IOC specifies acceptable quality control testing methods as well as specifying other consumer transparency information, for example: hygiene standards along the supply chain, suitable packing materials and filling tolerances product labelling standards,identification of any food additives or allowable contaminants, recommendations for environmental protection in the use and disposal of olive products etc.\n\nThe different categories of olive oils and olive pomace oils are named and defined in the International Agreement and the IOC trade standard.\n\nOlive oil is the oil obtained solely from the fruit of the olive tree (Olea europaea L.) which has been extracted mechanically. Oils obtained using solvents or re-esterification processes are excluded as are any mixture with oils of other kinds. Olive oil may be either edible or industrial and is marketed in accordance with the following designations and definition:\n\nVirgin olive oils are the oils obtained from the fruit of the olive tree solely by mechanical or other physical means under conditions, particularly thermal conditions, that do not lead to alterations in the oil, and which have not undergone any treatment other than washing, decantation, centrifugation and filtration.\n\nVirgin olive oils fit for consumption as they are include:\n\n\nVirgin olive oil not fit for consumption as it is, designated lampante virgin olive oil, is virgin olive oil which has a free acidity, expressed as oleic acid, of more than 3.3 grams per 100 grams and/or the organoleptic characteristics and other characteristics of which correspond to those fixed for this category in the IOC standard. It is intended for refining or for technical use.\n\nRefined olive oil is the olive oil obtained from virgin olive oils by refining methods which do not lead to alterations in the initial glyceridic structure. It has a free acidity, expressed as oleic acid, of not more than 0.3 grams per 100 grams and its other characteristics correspond to those fixed for this category in the IOC standard.\n\nOlive oil is the oil consisting of a blend of refined olive oil and virgin olive oils fit for consumption as they are. It has a free acidity, expressed as oleic acid, of not more than 1 gram per 100 grams and its other characteristics correspond to those fixed for this category in the IOC standard.\n\nOlive pomace oil is the oil obtained by treating olive pomace with solvents or other physical treatments, to the exclusion of oils obtained by re-esterification processes and of any mixture with oils of other kinds. It is marketed in accordance with the following designations and definitions: \n\nThe IOC Mario Solinas Quality Award was launched in the year 2000 to reward producers, producer associations and packers for excellence and craftsmanship in the production of extra virgin olive oils. A twin aim is to increase consumer awareness and visibility of the wide range of sensory attributes of the superior extra virgin olive oils found on the marketplace.\n\nEntries are classified in different categories according to their fruitiness and evaluated by IOC-recognised panels which use a 100-point profile sheet to rate their smell, taste, retronasal sensations, harmony, complexity and persistence.\n\nThe highest scorers are then assessed by an international panel of judges who pick the first, second and third prize winners in each section of the competition.\nWinners receive a medal and a diploma. They are also allowed to mention their Award on bottles of extra virgin olive oil belonging to the same batch as the prize winner.\n\n"}
{"id": "51297604", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51297604", "title": "José Enrique Angulo", "text": "José Enrique Angulo\n\nJosé Enrique Angulo Caicedo (born 3 February 1995) is an Ecuadorian footballer who plays as a forward for Ecuadorian Serie A team Independiente DV.\n\nCaicedo was born in San Lorenzo, Esmeraldas, Angulo joined Independiente del Valle's youth setup in 2011, after starting it out at CS Norte América. On 4 September 2015 he made his professional debut, coming on as a late substitute for Bryan Cabezas in a 2–3 away loss against LDU Loja.\n\nAngulo scored his first goals as a professional on 2 October 2015, netting a brace in a 3–1 win at CD River Ecuador. On 6 November, he scored a hat-trick in a 4–1 home routing of Mushuc Runa SC; he finished the campaign with an impressive rate of 11 goals in only 14 appearances.\n\nAngulo was an starter during the club's 2016 Copa Libertadores run, scoring six goals in sixteen appearances as his side finished runner-up.\n\nOn 10 August 2016, Angulo signed a five-year contract with La Liga side Granada CF. On 25 August 2016, just 15 days after signing for the club, he was suspended by after testing positive for a doping exam.\n"}
{"id": "18576002", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18576002", "title": "Juozas Olekas", "text": "Juozas Olekas\n\nJuozas Olekas (born October 30, 1955) is a Lithuanian surgeon and politician, a former Minister of National Defence, from 2006 to 2008. In 1990 and from 2003 to 2004 he also served as the Health Minister.\n\nOlekas studied at Kaunas Institute of Medicine from 1974 to 1976, and at Vilnius University from 1976 to 1980.\n\nBetween 1994 and 1997 he was a chief physician at the Vilnius University hospital.\n\nOlekas is married to Aurelija Olekienė, they have two daughters.\n\n"}
{"id": "47782349", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47782349", "title": "LOGIC (electronic cigarette)", "text": "LOGIC (electronic cigarette)\n\nLOGIC is an electronic cigarette brand of Japan Tobacco International.\n\nLogic Technology Development was founded in 2010. They are an e-cigarette manufacturer.\n\nThey sell rechargeable and disposable e-cigarettes. Nicotine is obtained from a polyethylene glycol or propolene glycol e-liquid solution, and other chemicals are included such as glycerin and flavorings. The end of the device turns blue when in use.\n\nIn the first quarter of 2015, Logic Technology Development held a 20% market share in United States convenience stores. In April 2015, Japan Tobacco International agreed to acquire Logic Technology Development.\n"}
{"id": "46652347", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46652347", "title": "List of United Nations Security Council Resolutions 2201 to 2300", "text": "List of United Nations Security Council Resolutions 2201 to 2300\n\nThis is a list of United Nations Security Council Resolutions 2201 to 2300 adopted between 15 February 2015 and the 26 July 2016.\n"}
{"id": "51726259", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51726259", "title": "Little Company of Mary Health Care (Australia)", "text": "Little Company of Mary Health Care (Australia)\n\nLittle Company of Mary Health Care, also known as Calvary Health Care is an arm of the Sisters of the Little Company of Mary in Australia.\n\nIt operates a number of health services throughout Australia, including public and Catholic private hospitals, aged care and retirement communities and a range of home care and community based services.\n\n\n\nAdelaide\nBelmont\nBerri SA\nCanberra\nCessnock\nCooks Hill\nEleebana\nHamilton\nLambton\nMaitland\nMuswellbrook\nRyde\nSandgate\nSingleton\nTanilba Bay\nTaree\nWaratah\n\n"}
{"id": "16524768", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16524768", "title": "Lord Francis Douglas", "text": "Lord Francis Douglas\n\nLord Francis William Bouverie Douglas (8 February 1847 – 14 July 1865) was a novice British mountaineer. After sharing in the first ascent of the Matterhorn, he died in a fall on the way down from the summit.\n\nBorn in Scotland at Cummertrees, Dumfries, Douglas was the son of Archibald William Douglas, 8th Marquess of Queensberry and his wife Caroline, daughter of General Sir William Robert Clayton, Bt. (1786–1866), member of parliament for Great Marlow. He had an older sister, Lady Gertrude Georgiana Douglas (1842–1893); an older brother, John Sholto Douglas, Viscount Drumlanrig (1844–1900), later the ninth Marquess of Queensberry; a younger brother, Lord Archibald Edward Douglas (1850–1938), who became a clergyman; and a younger brother and sister, the twins Lord James Douglas (d. 1891) and Lady Florence Douglas (1855–1905), who married Sir Alexander Beaumont Churchill Dixie, 11th Baronet. He was an uncle of Oscar Wilde's lover Lord Alfred Douglas, and a younger brother of John Douglas, 9th Marquess of Queensberry.\n\nIn 1858, Douglas's father, Lord Queensberry, died in what was reported as a shooting accident, but his death was widely believed to have been suicide. In 1862, his mother, Lady Queensberry, converted to Roman Catholicism and took her children to live in Paris.\n\nDouglas was educated at the Edinburgh Academy.\n\nAt the beginning of 1865, the Matterhorn was still unconquered, and more than one assault on it was planned. One such group consisted of Douglas, Edward Whymper, and their guide Peter Taugwalder. Whymper had already made several unsuccessful attempts on the mountain. On 5 July, this group made the second ascent (and the first by the north-north-west ridge) of the Ober Gabelhorn, a peak of 4,053 metres on the north-west side of the Matterhorn; also in July, Douglas made the first ascent of the nearby Unter Gabelhorn (3,391 m) with guides Peter Taugwalder and P. Inäbnit.\n\nHearing of a planned assault on the main peak by an Italian party, Douglas and Whymper joined forces with two other British climbers, Charles Hudson and Douglas Robert Hadow, and their guide Michel Croz.\n\nAt 4:30 a.m. on 13 July, a combined party of seven men, led by Whymper, set off for the Matterhorn under a clear sky: Whymper, Douglas, Hudson and Hadow, plus Taugwalder and son, and Croz. They climbed past the Schwarzsee to a plateau where they camped. Meanwhile, the Italians, led by Carrel, had camped at a height of about 4000 meters on the Lion Ridge.\n\nOn 14 July, Whymper's party proceeded to a successful first ascent by the Hörnli route. However, on the way down, Hadow fell, knocking down Croz, and also dragging Hudson and Douglas, connected by a rope. The four fell to their deaths on the Matterhorn Glacier 1,400 metres below. Three of the bodies lost were later found, but not Douglas's.\nWhymper later described the deaths as follows: \n\nThe rival party of Italian alpinists reached the Matterhorn's summit three days later.\n\nThe deaths of Douglas, Croz, Hadow and Hudson led to years of recriminations and debate, many blaming Whymper, others suggesting sabotage and even murder. The coroner in Zermatt (a hotelier) asked few searching questions, and the climbing fraternity was deeply divided over the matter until long after the deaths of all concerned. The incident is seen as marking the end of the Golden age of alpinism.\n\nThe Rev. Arthur G. Butler was inspired to defend the climbing of the Matterhorn in verse: \n\n40 years after the accident, Lord Francis Douglas's sister still hoped that the remains of her brother could be found.\n\n"}
{"id": "35227462", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35227462", "title": "Martin S. Bergmann", "text": "Martin S. Bergmann\n\nMartin S. Bergmann (February 15, 1913 – January 22, 2014) was a clinical professor of psychology of the New York University post-doctoral program where he taught the course on the history of psychoanalysis. He was a major voice in the post-Freudian analysis and authored books on human conditions like the Holocaust, the phenomenology of love and child sacrifice. \nHe was a member of the International Psychoanalytical Association and an honorary member of the American Psychoanalytic Association. In the wake of 9/11 he wrote an article concerning its implications on psychoanalysis called \"Psychoanalytical Reflections on September 11, 2001. He was the son of Hugo Bergmann and father of Michael Bergmann.\n\nBergmann contributed to the documentaries \"The Century of the Self\" (2002) by Adam Curtis and \"Young Dr. Freud\" by David Grubin. He appeared as Prof. Louis Levy in Woody Allen's 1989 feature \"Crimes and Misdemeanors\", and played SS NCO Zablocie in \"Schindler's List\".\n\n\nBergmann died on January 22, 2014 aged 100.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6134342", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6134342", "title": "Mental health professional", "text": "Mental health professional\n\nA mental health professional is a health care practitioner or community services provider who offers services for the purpose of improving an individual's mental health or to treat mental disorders. This broad category was developed as a name for community personnel who worked in the new community mental health agencies begun in the 1970s to assist individuals moving from state hospitals, to prevent admissions, and to provide support in homes, jobs, education and community. These individuals (i.e., state office personnel, private sector personnel, and non-profit, now voluntary sector personnel) were the forefront brigade to develop the community programs, which today may be referred to by names such as supported housing, psychiatric rehabilitation, supported or transitional employment, sheltered workshops, supported education, daily living skills, affirmative industries, dual diagnosis treatment, individual and family psychoeducation, adult day care, foster care, family services and mental health counseling.\n\nThe category seldom includes psychiatrists (DO or MD) who remained institutional based and guarded the admissions procedures at institutionalization (both private and state specialty hospitals). However, in 2013, psychiatrists also are working in clinical fields with psychologists including in sociobehavioral, neurological, person-centered and clinical approaches (often office-based), and studies of the \"brain disease\" (which came from the community fields and community management and are taught at the MA to PhD level in education). For example, Nat Raskin (at Northwestern University Medical School) who worked with the illustrious Carl Rogers, published on person-centered approaches and therapy in 2004. The term counselors often refers to office-based professionals who offer therapy sessions to their clients, operated by organizations such as pastoral counseling (which may or may not work with long term services clients) and family counselors. Mental health counselors may refer to counselors working in residential services in the field of mental health in community programs.\n\nAs Dr. William Anthony, father of psychiatric rehabilitation, described, psychiatric nurses (RNMH, RMN, CPN), clinical psychologists (PsyD or PhD), clinical social workers (MSW or MSSW), mental health counselors (MA or MS), professional counselors, pharmacists, as well as many other professionals are often educated in \"psychiatric fields\" or conversely, educated in a generic community approach (e.v fdcgaxbgcg., human services programs, or health and human services in 2013). However, histxt primary concern is education that leads to a willingness to work with \"long-term services and supports\" community support in the community to lead to better life quality for the individual, the families and the community.\n\nThe community support framework in the US of the 1970s is taken-for-granted as the base for new treatment developments (e.g., eating disorders, drug addiction programs) which tend to be free standing clinics for specific \"disorders\". Typically, the term \"mental health professional\" does not refer to other categorical disability areas, such as intellectual and developmental disability (which trains its own professionals and maintains its own journals, and US state systems and institutions). Psychiatric rehabilitation has also been reintroduced into the transfer to behavioral health care systems.\n\nThese professionals often deal with the same illnesses, disorders, conditions, and issues (though may separate on site locations, such as hospital or community for the same clientele); however, their scope of practice differs and more particularly, their positions and roles in the fields of mental health services and systems. The most significant difference between mental health professionals are the laws regarding required education and training across the various professions. However, the most significant change has been the Supreme Court Olmstead Decision on the most integrated setting which should further reduce state hospital utilization; yet with new professionals seeking right for community treatment orders and rights to administer medications (original community programs, residents taught to self-administer medications, 1970s).\n\nIn 2013, new mental health practitioners are licensed or certified in the community (e.g., PhD, education in private clinical practice) by states, degrees and certifications are offered in fields such as psychiatric rehabilitation (MS, PhD), BA psychology (liberal arts, experimental/clinical/existential/community)to MA licensing is now more popular, BA (to PhD) mid-level program management, qualified civil service professionals, and social workers remain the mainstay of community admissions procedures (licensed by state, often generic training) in the US. Surprisingly, state direction has moved from psychiatry or clinical psychology to community leadership and professionalization of community services management.\n\nEntry level recruitment and training remain a primary concern (since the 1970s, then often competing with fast food positions), and the US Direct Support Workforce includes an emphasis on also training of psychiatric aides, behavioral aides, and addictions aides to work in homes and communities. The Centers for Medicaid and Medicare have new provisions for \"self-direction\" in services and new options are in place for individual plans for better life outcomes. Community programs are increasingly using health care financing, such as Medicaid, and Mental Health Parity is now law in the US.\n\nAdditional Sources/Clarifications: now operating programs with health care financing in the community. Higher paid medical and health services manager which only operates facilities, considered to be easier than dispersed services management in the community for long-term services and supports (LTSS) often by disability NGOs or state governments (civil service).\n\nThe Mental Health Professional Class has often not been included in these occupational schemas in which Occupational Handbooks often separate Human Service Management Classes and Professional Classes from the term Health Care. Common salary ranges are in the $30,000-40,000 for the higher professional at the small community agency. The professionals are considered to be part of the federal Health and Human Services professions. Their responsibilities at the high gates are greater than a psychiatrist assistant who is responsible, to date, only to the psychiatrist. The occupational therapist is considered as an aide to that professional level, as is a behavioral specialist as hired by the agency and the nurse practitioner. Mental health workers in the community (E.g., workers with the homeless, in homes, families and jails, community programs such as group homes) may still be termed Community Support Workers with diverse degrees and qualifications [US Direct Support Professional Workforce].\n\nChildren's professionals in the field of mental health include inclusion educators (over $80,000 at the PhD levels) who have been cross-educated in the fields, and \"residential treatment\" personnel which need dual reviews of credentials (child care, family support, child welfare, independent living, special education and home life, residential skills training programs).\n\nMental health professionals exist to improve the mental health of individuals, couples, families and the community-at-large. [In this generic use, mental health is available to the entire population, similar to the use by mental health associations.] Because mental health covers a wide range of elements, the scope of practice greatly varies between professionals. Some professionals may enhance relationships while others treat specific mental disorders and illness; still others work on population-based health promotion or prevention activities. Often, as with the case of psychiatrists and psychologists, the scope of practice may overlap often due to common hiring and promotion practices by employers.\n\nAs indicated earlier, community mental health professionals have been involved in beginning and operating community programs which include ongoing efforts to improve life outcomes, originally through long term services and supports (LTSS). Termed functional or competency-based programs, these service also stressed decision making and self-determination or empowerment as critical aspects. Community mental health professionals may also serve children which have different needs, as do families, including family therapy, financial assistance and support services. Community mental health professionals serve people of all ages from young children with autism, to children with emotional (or behavioral) needs, to grandma who has Alzheimer's or dementia and is living at home after dad passes away.\n\nMost qualified mental health professionals will refer a patient or client to another professional if the specific type of treatment needed is outside of their scope of practice. The main community concern is \"zero rejection\" from community services for individuals who have been termed \"hard to serve\" in the population [\"schizophrenia\"] [\"dual diagnosis\"] or who have additional needs such as mobility and sensory impairments. Additionally, many mental health professionals may sometimes work together using a variety of treatment options such as concurrent psychiatric medication and psychotherapy and supported housing. Additionally, specific mental health professionals may be utilized based upon their cultural and religious background or experience, as part of a theory of both alternative medicines and of the nature of helping and ethnicity.\n\nPrimary care providers, such as internists, pediatricians, and family physicians, may provide initial components of mental health diagnosis and treatment for children and adults; however, family physicians in some states refuse to even prescribe a psychotropic medication deferring to separately funded \"medication management\" services. Community programs in the categorical field of mental health were designed (1970s) to have a personal family physician for every client in their programs, except for institutional settings and nursing facilities which have only one or two for a large facility (1980, 2013).\n\nIn particular, family physicians are trained during residency in interviewing and diagnostic skills, and may be quite skilled in managing conditions such as ADHD in children and depression in adults. Likewise, many (but not all) pediatricians may be taught the basic components of ADHD diagnosis and treatment during residency. In many other circumstances, primary care physicians may receive additional training and experience in mental health diagnosis and treatment during their practice years.\n\nBoth primary care physicians (GP's) and psychiatrist are just as effective (in terms of remission rates) for the treatment of depression . However, treatment resistant depression, suicidal, homicidal ideation, psychosis and catatonia should be handled by mental health specialists. Treatment resistant depression (or treatment refractory depression) refers to depression which remains at large after at least two antidepressant medications have been trailed on their own.\n\nSome think that mental health professionals are less credible when they have personal experience of mental health. In fact, the mental health sector goes out of its way to hire people with mental illness experience. Those in the mental health workforce with a personal experience of mental health are referred to as ‘peer (support) workers’. The balance of evidence appears to favour their employment: Randomised controlled trials consistently demonstrate peer staff produce outcomes on par with non-peer staff in ancillary roles, but they actually perform better in reducing hospitalisation rates, engaging clients who are difficult to reach, and cutting substance use. There is research that indicates peer workers cultivate a perception among service users that the service is more responsive to non-treatment things, increases their hope, family satisfaction, self-esteem and community belonging\n\nPsychiatrists are physicians and one of the few professionals in the mental health industry who specialize and are certified in treating mental illness using the biomedical approach to mental disorders including the use of medications. However, biological, genetic and social processes as part of premedicine have been the basis of education in fields such as BA psychology since the 1970s, and in 2013, such academic degrees also may include extensive work on the status of brain, DNA research and its applications.[See, Cornell University, Liberal Arts, College of Arts and Sciences, endowed institution in the US] Clinical psychologists were hired by states and served in institutions in the US, and were involved in the transition to community systems.\n\nPsychiatrists may also go through significant training to conduct psychotherapy and cognitive behavioral therapy; however psychologists and clinical psychologists specialize in the research and clinical application of these techniques. The amount of training a psychiatrist holds in providing these types of therapies varies from program to program and also differs greatly based upon region. [Cognitive therapy also stems from cognitive rehabilitation techniques, and may involve long-term community clients with brain injuries seeking jobs, education and community housing.] In the 1970s, psychiatrists were considered to be hospital-based, assessment, and clinical education personnel which were not involved in establishing community programs. They were often criticized for serving the \"young, white, urban, professional\" as their main clientele groups, though piloting services such as hospital social day care which are now in senior programs.\n\nAs part of their evaluation of the patient, psychiatrists are one of only a few mental health professionals who may conduct physical examinations, order and interpret laboratory tests and EEGs, and may order brain imaging studies such as CT or CAT, MRI, and PET scanning. A medical professional must evaluate the patient for any medical problems or diseases that may be the cause of the mental illness.\n\nHistorically psychiatrists have been the only mental health professional with the power to prescribe medication to treat specific types of mental illness. Currently, Physician Assistants responsible to the psychiatrist (in lieu of and supervised)and advanced practice psychiatric nurses may prescribe medications, including psychiatric medications. Clinical psychologists have gained the ability to prescribe psychiatric medications on a limited basis in a few U.S. states after completing additional training and passing an examination.\n\nTypically the requirements to become a psychiatrist are substantial but differ from country to country. In general there is an initial period of several years of academic and clinical training and supervised work in different areas of medicine, in order to become a licensed medical doctor, followed by several years of supervised work and study in psychiatry, in order to become a licensed psychiatrist.\n\nIn the United States and Canada one must first complete a Bachelor's degree. Students may typically decide any major subject of their choice, however they must enroll in specific courses, usually outlined in a pre-medical program. One must then apply to and attend 4 years of medical school in order to earn his MD or DO and to complete his medical education. Psychiatrists must then pass three successive rigorous national board exams (United States Medical Licensing Exams \"USMLE\", Steps 1, 2, and 3), which draws questions from all fields of medicine and surgery, before gaining an unrestricted license to practice medicine. Following this, the individual must complete a four-year residency in Psychiatry as a psychiatric resident and sit for annual national in-service exams. Psychiatry residents are required to complete at least four post-graduate months of internal medicine (pediatrics may be substituted for some or all of the internal medicine months for those planning to specialize in child and adolescent psychiatry) and two months of neurology, usually during the first year, but some programs require more. Occasionally, some prospective psychiatry residents will choose to do a transitional year internship in medicine or general surgery, in which case they may complete the two months of neurology later in their residency. After completing their training, psychiatrists take written and then oral specialty board examinations. The total amount of time required to qualify in the field of psychiatry in the United States is typically 4 to 5 years after obtaining the MD or DO (or in total 8 to 9 years minimum). Many psychiatrists pursue an additional 1–2 years in subspecialty fellowships on top of this such as child psychiatry, geriatric psychiatry, and psychosomatic medicine.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, the Republic of Ireland, and most Commonwealth countries, the initial degree is the combined Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery, usually a single period of academic and clinical study lasting around five years. This degree is most often abbreviated 'MBChB', 'MB BS' or other variations, and is the equivalent of the American 'MD'. Following this the individual must complete a two-year foundation programmer that mainly consists of supervised paid work as a Foundation House Officer within different specialties of medicine. Upon completion the individual can apply for \"core specialist training\" in psychiatry, which mainly involves supervised paid work as a Specialty Registrar in different subspecialities of psychiatry. After three years there is an examination for Membership of the Royal College of Psychiatrists (abbreviated MRCPsych), with which an individual may then work as a \"Staff grade\" or \"Associate Specialist\" psychiatrist, or pursue an academic psychiatry route via a PhD. If, after the MRCPsych, an additional 3 years of specialization known as \"advanced specialist training\" are taken (again mainly paid work), and a Certificate of Completion of Training is awarded, the individual can apply for a post taking independent clinical responsibility as a \"consultant\" psychiatrist.\n\nA clinical psychologist studies and applies psychology for the purpose of understanding, preventing, and relieving psychologically-based distress or dysfunction and to promote subjective well-being and personal development. In many countries it is a regulated profession that addresses moderate to more severe or chronic psychological problems, including diagnosable mental disorders. Clinical psychology includes a wide range of practices, such as research, psychological assessment, teaching, consultation, forensic testimony, and program development and administration. Central to clinical psychology is the practice of psychotherapy, which uses a wide range of techniques to change thoughts, feelings, or behaviors in service to enhancing subjective well-being, mental health, and life functioning. Unlike other mental health professionals, psychologists are trained to conduct psychological assessment. Clinical psychologists can work with individuals, couples, children, older adults, families, small groups, and communities.\n\nClinical psychologists who focus on treating mental health specialize in evaluating patients and providing psychotherapy. They do not prescribe medication as this is a role of a psychiatrist (physician who specializes in psychiatry). There are a wide variety of therapeutic techniques and perspectives that guide practitioners, although most fall into the major categories of Psychodynamic, Cognitive Behavioral, Existential-Humanistic, and Systems Therapy (e.g. family or couples therapy).\n\nIn addition to therapy, clinical psychologists are also trained to administer and interpret psychological personality tests such as the MMPI and the Rorschach inkblot test, and various standardized tests of intelligence, memory, and neuropsychological functioning. Common areas of specialization include: specific disorders (e.g. trauma), neuropsychological disorders, child and adolescent, family and relationship counseling. Internationally, psychologists are generally not granted prescription privileges. In the US, prescriptive rights have been granted to appropriately trained psychologists only in the states of New Mexico and Louisiana, with some limited prescriptive rights in Indiana and the US territory of Guam.\n\nClinical psychologists, having completed an undergraduate degree usually in psychology or other social science, generally undergo specialist postgraduate training lasting at least two years (e.g. Australia), three years (e.g. UK), or four to six years depending how much research activity is included in the course (e.g. US). In countries where the course is of shorter duration, there may be an informal requirement for applicants to have undertaken prior work experience supervised by a clinical psychologist, and a proportion of applicants may also undertake a separate PhD research degree.\n\nToday, in the U.S., about half of licensed psychologists are trained in the Scientist-Practitioner Model of Clinical Psychology (PhD)—a model that emphasizes both research and clinical practice and is usually housed in universities. The other half are being trained within a Practitioner-Scholar Model of Clinical Psychology (PsyD), which focuses on practice (similar to professional degrees for medicine and law). A third training model called the Clinical Scientist Model emphasizes training in clinical psychology research. Outside of coursework, graduates of both programs generally are required to have had 2 to 3 years of supervised clinical experience, a certain amount of personal psychotherapy, and the completion of a dissertation (PhD programs usually require original quantitative empirical research, whereas the PsyD equivalent of dissertation research often consists of literature review and qualitative research, theoretical scholarship, program evaluation or development, critical literature analysis, or clinical application and analysis).\n\nMost states in the US require clinical psychologists to obtain a certain number of continuing education credits in order to renew their license. This was established to ensure that psychologists stay current with information and practices in their fields. The license renewal cycle varies, but renewal is generally required every two years.\n\nThe number of continuing education credits required for clinical psychologists varies between states. In Nebraska, psychologists are required to obtain 24 hours of approved continuing education credits in the 24 months before their license renewal. In California, the requirement is for 36 hours of credits. New York State does not have any continuing education requirements for license renewal at this time (2014).\n\nActivities that count towards continuing education credits generally include completing courses, publishing research papers, teaching classes, home study, and attending workshops. Some states require that a certain number of the education credits be in ethics. Most states allow psychologists to self-report their credits but randomly audit individual psychologists to ensure compliance.\n\nCounseling generally involves helping people with what might be considered \"normal\" or \"moderate\" psychological problems, such as the feelings of anxiety or sadness resulting from major life changes or events. As such, counseling psychologists often help people adjust to or cope with their environment or major events, although many also work with more serious problems as well.\n\nOne may practice as a counseling psychologist with a PhD or EdD, and as a counseling psychotherapist with a master's degree. Compared with clinical psychology, there are fewer counseling psychology graduate programs (which are commonly housed in departments of education), counselors tend to conduct more vocational assessment and less projective or objective assessment, and they are more likely to work in public service or university clinics (rather than hospitals or private practice). Despite these differences, there is considerable overlap between the two fields and distinctions between them continue to fade.\n\nMental health counselors and residential counselors are also the name for another class of counselors or mental health professionals who may work with long-term services and supports (LTSS) clients in the community. Such counselors may be advanced or senior staff members in a community program, and may be involved in developing skill teaching, active listening (and similar psychological and educational methods), and community participation programs. They also are often skilled in on-site intervention, redirection and emergency techniques. Supervisory personnel often advance from this class of workers in community programs.\n\nBehavior analysts are licensed in five states to provide services for clients with substance abuse, developmental disabilities, and mental illness. This profession draws on the evidence base of applied behavior analysis, behavior therapy, and the philosophy of behaviorism. Behavior analysts have at least a master's degree in behavior analysis or in a mental health related discipline as well as at least five core courses in applied behavior analysis (narrow focus in psychological education). Many behavior analysts have a doctorate. Most programs have a formalized internship program and several programs are offered online. Most practitioners have passed the examination offered by the behavior analysis certification board or the examination in clinical behavior therapy by the World Association for Behavior Analysis. The model licensing act for behavior analysts can be found at the Association for Behavior Analysis International's website.\n\nBehavior analysts (who grew from the definition of mental health as a behavioral problem) often use community situational activities, life events, functional teaching, community \"reinforcers\", family and community staff as intervenors, and structured interventions as the base in which they may be called upon to provide skilled professional assistance. Approaches that are based upon person-centered approaches have been used to update the stricter, hospital based interventions used by behavior analysts for applicability to community environments Behavioral approaches have often been infused with efforts at client self-determination, have been aligned with community lifestyle planning, and have been criticized as \"aversive technology\" which was \"outlawed\" in the field of severe disabilities in the 1990s.\n\nThe Certified Mental Health Professional (CMHP) certification is designed to measure an individual’s competency in performing the following job tasks. The job tasks are a sampling of job tasks with a clinical emphasis, and represents a level of line staff in community programs reporting to a community supervisor in a small site based program. Personnel in community housing, nursing facilities, and institutional programs may be covered by these kinds of certifications.\n\n\nHowever, these position levels have undergone decades of academic field testing and recommendations with new competencies in development in 2011-2013 by the Centers for Medicaid and Medicare (at the categorical aide levels). New professionals were recommended with a community services coordinator (commonly known as \"hands on\" case management), together with services and personnel management, and community development and liaison roles for community participation.\n\nSchool psychologists' primary concern is with the academic, social, and emotional well-being of children within a scholastic environment. Unlike clinical psychologists, they receive much more training in education, child development and behavior, and the psychology of learning, often graduating with a post-master's educational specialist degree (EdS), EdD or Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) degree. Besides offering individual and group therapy with children and their families, school psychologists also evaluate school programs, provide cognitive assessment, help design prevention programs (e.g. reducing drops outs), and work with teachers and administrators to help maximize teaching efficacy, both in the classroom and systemically.\n\nIn today's world, the school psychologist remains the responsible party in \"mental health\" regarding children with emotional and behavioral needs, and have not always met these needs in the regular school environment. Inclusion (special)educators support participation in local school programs and after school programs, including new initiatives such as Achieve my Plan by the Research and Training Center on Family Support and Children's Mental Health at Portland State University. Referrals to residential schools and certification of the personnel involved in the residential schools and campuses have been a multi-decade concern with counties often involved in national efforts to better support these children and youth in local schools, families, homes and communities.\n\nPsychiatric rehabilitation, similar to cognitive rehabilitation, is a designated field in the rehabilitation often academically prepared in either Schools of Allied Health and Sciences (near the field of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation) and as rehabilitation counseling in the School of Education. Both have been developed specifically as preparing community personnel (at the MA and PHD levels) and to aid in the transition to professionally competent and integrated community services. Psychiatric rehabilitation personnel have a community integration-related base, support a recovery and skills-based model of mental health, and may be involved with community programs based upon normalization and social role valorization throughout the US. Psychiatric rehabilitation personnel have been involved in upgrading the skills of staff in institutions in order to move clients into the community settings. Most common in international fields are community rehabilitation personnel which traditionally come from the rehabilitation counseling or community fields. In the new \"rehabilitation centers\" (new campus buildings), designed similar to hospital \"rehab\" (physical and occupational therapy, sports medicine), often no designated personnel in the fields of mental health (now \"senior behavioral services\" or \"residential treatment units\"). Psychiatric rehabilitation textbooks are currently on the market describing the community services their personnel were involved with in community development (commonly known as deinstitutionalization).\n\nPsychiatric rehabilitation professionals (and psychosocial services)are the mainstay of community programs in the US, and the national service providers association itself may certify mental health staff in these areas. Psychiatric interventions which vary from behavioral ones are described in a review on their use in \"residential, vocational, social or educational role functioning\" as a \"preferred methods for helping individuals with serious psychiatric disabilities\". Other competencies in education may involve working with families, user-directed planning methods and financing, housing and support, personal assistance services, transitional or supported employment, Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA), supported housing, integrated approaches (e.g., substance use, or intellectual disabilities), and psychosocial interventions, among others. In addition, rehabilitation counselors (PhD, MS) may also be educated \"generically\" (breadth and depth) or for all diagnostic groups, and can work in these fields; other personnel may have certifications in areas such as supported employment which has been verified for use in psychiatric, neurological, traumatic brain injury, and intellectual disabilities, among others.\n\nSocial workers in the area of mental health may assess, treat, develop treatment plans, provide case management and/or rights advocacy to individuals with mental health problems. They can work independently or within clinics/service agencies, usually in collaboration with other health care professionals.\n\nIn the US, they are often referred to as clinical social workers; each state specifies the responsibilities and limitations of this profession. State licensing boards and national certification boards require clinical social workers to have a master's or doctoral degree (MSW or DSW/PhD) from a university. The doctorate in social work requires submission of a major original contribution to the field in order to be awarded the degree.\n\nIn the UK there is a now a standardized three-year undergraduate social work degree, or two-year postgraduate master's for those who already have an undergraduate social sciences degree or others and relevant work experience. These courses include mandatory supervised work experience in social work, which may include mental health services. Successful completion allows an individual to register and work as a qualified social worker. There are various additional optional courses for gaining qualifications specific to mental health, for example training in psychotherapy or, in England and Wales, for the role of Approved Mental Health Professional (two years' training for a legal role in the assessment and detention of eligible mentally disordered people under the Mental Health Act (1983) as amended in 2007).\n\nSocial workers in England and Wales are now able to become Approved Clinicians under the Mental Health Act 2007 following a period of further training (likely at postgraduate degree/diploma or doctoral level). Historically, this role was reserved for psychiatrist medical doctors, but has now extended to registered mental health professionals, such as social workers, psychologists and mental health nurses.\n\nIn general, it is the psycho-social model rather than, or in addition to, the dominant medical model, that is the underlying rationale for mental health social work. This may include a focus on social causation, labeling, critical theory and social constructiveness. Many argue social workers need to work with medical and health colleagues to provide an effective service but they also need to be at the forefront of processes that include and empower service users.\n\nSocial workers also prepare social work administration and may hold positions in human services systems as administration or Executives to Administration in the US. Social workers, similar to psychiatric rehabilitation, updates its professional education programs based upon current developments in the fields (e.g., support services)and serve a multicultural client base.\n\nIn the United States, the minimum requirement for social workers is generally a bachelor's degree in social work, though a bachelor's degree in a related field such as sociology or psychology may qualify an applicant for certain jobs. Higher-level jobs typically require a master's degree in social work. Master’s programs in social work usually last two years and consist of at least 900 hours of supervised instruction in the field. Regulatory boards generally require that degrees be obtained from programs that are accredited by the Council of Social Work Education (CSWE) or another nationally recognized accrediting agency for promotion and future collaboration.\n\nBefore social workers can practice, they are required to meet the licensing, certification, or registration requirements of the state. The requirements vary depending on the state but usually involve a minimum number of supervised hours in the field and passing of an exam. All states except California also require pre-licensure from the Association of Social Work Boards (ASWB).\n\nThe ASWB offers four categories of social work license. The lowest level is a Bachelors, for which a bachelor's degree in social work is required. The next level up is a Masters and a master's degree in social work is required. The Advanced Generalist category of social worker requires a master's degree in social work and two years of supervised post-degree experience. The highest ASWB category is a Clinical Social Worker which requires a master's degree in social work along with two years of post-master’s direct experience in social work.\n\nMost states require social workers to acquire a minimum number of continuing education credits per license, certification, or registration renewal period. The purpose of these requirements is to ensure that social workers stay up-to-date with information and practices in their professions. In most states, the renewal process occurs every two or three years. The number of continuing education credits that is required varies between states but is generally 20 to 45 hours during the two- or three-year period prior to renewal.\n\nCourses and programs that are approved as continuing education for social workers generally must be relevant to the profession and contribute to the advancement of professional competence. They often include continuing education courses, seminars, training programs, community service, research, publishing articles, or serving on a panel. Many states enforce that a minimum amount of the credits be on topics such as ethics, HIV/AIDs, or domestic violence.\n\nPsychiatric Nurses or Mental Health Nurse Practitioners work with people with a large variety of mental health problems, often at the time of highest distress, and usually within hospital settings. These professionals work in primary care facilities, outpatient mental health clinics, as well as in hospitals and community health centers. MHNPs evaluate and provide care for patients who have anything from psychiatric disorders, medical mental conditions, to substance abuse problems. They are licensed to provide emergency psychiatric services, assess the psycho-social and physical state of their patients, create treatment plans, and continually manage their care. They may also serve as consultants or as educators for families and staff; however, the MHNP has a greater focus on psychiatric diagnosis (typically the province of the MD or PhD), including the differential diagnosis of medical disorders with psychiatric symptoms and on medication treatment for psychiatric disorders.\n\nPsychiatric and mental health nurses receive specialist education to work in this area. In some countries it is required that a full course of general nurse training be completed prior to specializing as a psychiatric nurse. In other countries, such as the U.K., an individual completes a specific nurse training course that determines their area of work. As with other areas of nursing, it is becoming usual for psychiatric nurses to be educated to degree level and beyond. Psychiatric aides, now being trained by educational psychology in 2014, are part of the entry level workforce which is projected to be needed in communities in the US in the next decades.\n\nIn order to become a nurse practitioner in the U.S., at least six years of college education must be obtained. After earning the bachelor's degree (usually in nursing, although there are master's entry level nursing graduate programs intended for individuals with a bachelor's degree outside of nursing) the test for license as a registered nurse (the NCLEX-RN) must be passed. Next, the candidate must complete a state-approved master's degree advanced nursing education program which includes at least 600 clinical hours. Several schools are now also offering further education and awarding a DNP (Doctor of Nursing Practice).\n\nIndividuals who choose a master's entry level pathway will spend an extra year at the start of the program taking classes necessary to pass the NCLEX-RN. Some schools will issue a BSN, others will issue a certificate. The student then continues with the normal MSN program.\n\nA mental health care navigator is an individual who assists patients and families to find appropriate mental health caregivers, facilities and services. Individuals who are care navigators are often also trained therapists and doctors. The need for mental health care navigators arises from the fragmentation of the mental health industry, which can often leave those in need with more questions than answers. Care navigators work closely with patients through discussion and collaboration to provide information on options and referrals to healthcare professionals, facilities, and organizations specializing in the patients’ needs. The difference between other mental health professionals and a care navigator is that a care navigator provides information and directs a patient to the best help rather than offering diagnosis, prescription of medications or treatment.\n\nMany mental health organizations use “navigator” and “navigation” to describe the service of providing guidance through the health care industry. Care navigators are also sometimes referred to as “system navigators”. One type of care navigator is an \"educational consultant.\"\n\nBehavioral health disorders are prevalent in the United States, but accessing treatment can be challenging. Nearly 1 in 5 adults experience a mental health condition for which approximately only 43% received treatment. When asked about access to mental health treatment, two-thirds of primary care physicians reported that they were unable to secure outpatient mental health treatment for their patients. This is due, in part, to the workforce shortage in behavioral health. In rural areas, 55% of US counties have no practicing psychiatrist, psychologist, or social worker. Overall, 77% of counties have a severe shortage of mental health workers and 96% of counties had some unmet need. Some of the reasons for the workforce shortage include high turnover rates, high levels of work-related stress, and inadequate compensation. Annual turnover rate is 33% for clinicians and 23% for clinical supervisors. This is compared to an annual PCP turnover rate of 7.1%. Compensation in behavioral health field is notably low. The average licensed clinical social worker, a position that requires a master's degree and 2000 hours of post graduate experience, earns $45,000/year on average. As a point of reference, the average physical therapist earns $75,000/year on average. Substance abuse counselor earnings are even lower, with an average salary of $34,000/year. Job stress is another factor that may lead to the high turnover rates and workforce shortage. It is estimated that 21-67% of mental health workers experience high levels of burnout including symptoms of emotional exhaustion, high levels of depersonalization and a reduced sense of personal accomplishment. Researchers have offered various recommendations to reduce the critical workforce gaps in behavioral health. Some of these recommendations include the following: expanding loan repayment programs to incentivize mental health providers to work in underserved (often rural) areas, integrating mental health into primary care, and increasing reimbursement to health care professionals.\n\nSocial workers also tend to experience competing work and family demands, which negatively affects their job well-being and subsequently their job satisfaction, resulting in high turnover in the profession.\n\n"}
{"id": "45377379", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45377379", "title": "National Health Service Central Register (Scotland)", "text": "National Health Service Central Register (Scotland)\n\nThe National Health Service Central Register (NHSCR) is a Scottish Government database accessible to public bodies approved by the Scottish Parliament. The register was established in the early 1950s to facilitate the transfer of patients between Health Board areas or across borders within the countries of the United Kingdom. However, its role has expanded over the decades and it now also provides Scottish local authorities with a unique reference number used to identify people on their own databases.\n\nIn 2006, the Scottish Government and the National Records of Scotland made a major expansion of the applications of the NHSCR by changing regulations with section 57 of the Local Electoral Administration and Registration Services (Scotland) Act 2006. In 2015, the Scottish Government proposed expanding access to the NHSCR to more than 100 additional public bodies. This expansion has been criticised by the Open Rights Group, who believe it may breach data protection rules and human rights and resembles a national identity system.\n\nThe Community Health Index is a register of all patients in NHS Scotland, Scotland's publicly funded healthcare system. The register exists to ensure that patients can be correctly identified, and that all information pertaining to a patient's health is available to providers of care.\n\nPatients are identified using a ten-digit number known as the CHI Number, pronounced /ˈkaɪ/. This number is normally formed using the patient's date of birth (as DDMMYY), followed by four digits: two digits randomly generated, the third digit identifying gender at birth (odd for men, even for women) and a check digit. As of March 2010, uptake of this number (based on radiology requests) varied across Scotland from 96.5% to 99.9% depending on the local NHS Board.\n\nThe CHI number is included in electronic medical referencing systems, such as AMS (Acute Medicine Service), CMS (Chronic Medicine Service) and MAS (Minor Ailment Scheme). All of these connect to Scotland's \"ePharmacy\" which contains details of all medical patients for Scotland.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57615388", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57615388", "title": "Nestlé Optifast", "text": "Nestlé Optifast\n\nNestlé Optifast is a brand under Nestlé Global and is a medically-monitored program that is claimed to help people lose weight. \n\nIt combines medical support and supervision, lifestyle changes, doctor advice, registered dietitians and behavioral counselors along with nutritionally complete meal replacement as well as physical activity to help patients achieve weight loss.\n"}
{"id": "27763570", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27763570", "title": "No Secrets (adult protection)", "text": "No Secrets (adult protection)\n\nNo Secrets, also known coequally as Adult Safeguarding, was a UK Government publication from the Department of Health which provided guidance on developing and implementing multi-agency policies and procedures to protect adults deemed \"at risk\" from harm and/or abuse. Its full title was \"\"No secrets\": guidance on developing and implementing multi-agency policies and procedures to protect vulnerable adults from abuse\". It has now been replaced by statutory guidance issued under the Care Act 2014.\n\nWhen the guidance was current, the Department of Health website stated that:\n\"It explains how commissioners and providers of health and social care services should work together to produce and implement local policies and procedures. They should collaborate with the public, voluntary and private sectors and they should also consult service users, their carers and representative groups. Local authority social services departments should co-ordinate the development of policies and procedures.\"\n\nThe No Secrets (England) and In Safe Hands (Wales) documents were issued as guidance in 2000, under section 7 of the Local Authority Social Services Act 1970. Section 7 guidance does not carry the same status as legislation; instead local authorities have their compliance assessed as part of a statutory inspection process. With ‘good reason’ a local authority can ignore such guidance, but may be called upon to justify their actions in a judicial review.\n\nWhen a referral is made to the local authority under adult protection / safeguarding, the case is allocated to a qualified social worker or specially trained care manager to undertake and investigate the allegation of abuse. The investigation can be a single agency led investigation, often led by the social worker or care manager or multi agency led, either with another statutory body such as the police, trading standards or a healthcare professional.\n\nThere is no current national guidance or minimal standards relating to the training of social workers in the UK who investigate Adult Protection / Adult Safeguarding matters. However, in 2011, Keele University developed a master's degree in Adult Safeguarding. The MA in Safeguarding Adults: Law, Policy and Practice is offered by the School of Law.\n\nA similar such course of study is provided by the Ulster University, in partnership with the Health and Social Care Trusts in Northern Ireland. The course is provided at Master's level. There are four modules available regarding various aspects of Social Work practice when safeguarding adults who are at risk of harm. This award winning program is the only course of its type in the UK and is designed to enable qualified Social Workers to reflect on their practice and work towards gaining academic credits as well as the Specialist Award in the Northern Ireland SW Post Qualifying framework.\n\nThere have been several notable cases where severe harm and even death have occurred as a result of local agencies not acting in accordance with the \"No Secrets\" guidelines such as the murder of a young man with learning difficulties (Developmental delay). The Cornwall Adult protection committee serious case review into Mr Hoskins death referred to No Secrets saying \"What is striking about the responses of services to Steven’s circumstances is that each agency focused on single issues within their own sectional remits and did not make the connections deemed necessary for the protection of vulnerable adults and proposed by No Secrets\" (Home Office/ Department of Health 2000).\n\nThe main reason for these and other failings (Stafford Hospital scandal, Margaret Panting, are the fact that these are the only Government documents addressing the development of multi-disciplinary structures for adult protection, and they are only guidelines. although the Association of Directors of Social Services brought out what was essentially a best practice guide called ‘Safeguarding Adults' in 2005. Existing legislation only relates to paid social care. The majority of abuse happens in people’s own homes, often perpetrated by family, friends or neighbors. The majority of elder abuse occurs within the community, and specifically within people’s own homes and is often perpetrated by family members and relatives. In legislative terms however the primary thrust of Government protective policy has focused upon the much smaller number of people in receipt of social care, and this has been regulated primarily through the Care Standards Act 2000 and more latterly the Safeguarding Vulnerable Groups Act 2006. Abuse within the community, unless perpetrated by paid domiciliary workers, is addressed through the No Secrets guidance.\n\nThe guidance has been effective in facilitating the creation of some form of adult protection system in all local authority areas, it has failed to deliver on a number of important issues, e.g.there is a lack of consistency and equality across areas in terms of the construction and level of adult protection systems provided, there is variable collaboration across statutory agencies, there are significant funding and staffing deficiencies in many areas, there is no consistency in the timing and duration of investigations, and there is no power to ensure access to victims, or to ensure safe outcomes. Lack of legislative underpinning - major reason for the inconsistent application of the ‘No Secrets’ guidance. ?Organizations and individuals firstly do what is legally required of them (their statutory duty), and only as a secondary activity consider those matters that fall into the category of a ‘statutory power’ i.e. what they are authorized but not compelled to do. It is argued that there is insufficient funding, and Adult protection work minimal. Some statutory agencies may invest what is necessary to maintain a skeleton response, with other agencies perceiving the work to be optional.\n\nAnother criticism is personalisation -empowering people’s choice and control over care through the provision of direct payments or individual budgets – no effective safeguards being pre-planned or proposed -by accepting a personalisation package someone loses the automatic safeguards of the Care Standards Act 2000 and the Safeguarding Vulnerable Groups Act 2006 systems become optional.\n\nThere are still many discrepancies with some agencies providing clear policies and procedures and others only functioning at a very basic level.\n\nOn the 1st April 2015 the 'No Secrets' guidance document was repealed by the Care Act 2014. This act contains replacement and mandatory requirements specifically around adult safeguarding and guidance now issued has statutory force and effect.\n\n"}
{"id": "22704291", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22704291", "title": "Noksu", "text": "Noksu\n\nNoksu () is a medical voluntary organization of Kyung Hee University, Seoul, South Korea. The members consist of both students and graduates from College of Oriental Medicine and College of Nursing Sciences. The organization is one of the six volunteer organizations of College of Oriental Medicine. It is widely regarded as one of the leading and most prestigious organization in the university. In 2010, Noksu was awarded first place in Korea by ASAN Foundation for outstanding volunteer performance.\n\nFounded in 1966, Noksu's main concept of volunteering was to give what we have learned back to the community. Inspired by poor medical SOC in more rural areas of Korea in the 1960s and 1970s, the students and graduates, especially majoring in Korean Medicine, have collaborated within each university to promote public health management. This concept of public service has been widespread since then.\n\n\nSince the founding of Noksu, every year great number of students who were interested in voluntary service has joined. Noksu has prospered for 45 years accounting for total of 557 members, 49 of which is active undergraduates.\n\n\nNoksu is currently located at College of Oriental Medicine, Kyunghee University, South Korea.\n\nNoksu is now under guidance of excellent active professors who themselves were undergraduate members of Noksu.\n\nProf. Seung-Gi Jung is currently the head professor of Allergy & Respiratory Diseases Department at Kyung Hee University Medical Center and a professor at College of Oriental Medicine, Kyung Hee University.\nProf. Myung-Ja Wang is currently a professor at College of Nursing Sciences, Kyung Hee University.\n\nNoksu's Motto is \"겸손과 사랑으로 진정한 봉사를 이루자\". \nIn translation, it means \"Sincere volunteering through humble hearts.\"\n\nNoksu's song is as follows.\n1st Verse\n젊음을 부르는 대학가에, 앞날에 희망을 꿈꾸며, 언제나 다정한 그 모습들, 오늘도 모였네 녹수회.\n2nd Verse\n태양이 비치는 백사장에, 언제나 밀려오는 파도처럼, 우리들의 우정도 변치말자, 오늘도 모였네 녹수회.\n\nDuring each summer and winter break, guidance professors, undergraduate and graduate members of Noksu survey rural districts with poor medical access for candidates. For the district that meets the conditions, extensive medical service is given. The voluntary service lasts for 7 days(including the set-up and dismantling time of temporary clinic). The patients visiting the temporary clinic will receive simple health check-up and Traditional Korean Medicine Treatments of acupuncture, moxabustion and herbal medicine. Also brief lectures are given on common conditions such as hypertension, coronary diseases and diabetes to promote public health awareness.\n\nLatest Volunteer Service Areas\n\nIn course of rapid development of Seoul, the capital of Korea, more suburban areas of the city had fallen behind and left its residents underprivileged in means of SOC. Conscious of these gaps, Noksu has extended its medical volunteering service to local residents of suburban areas of Seoul since 2002. Endowed by Seoul Housing Corporation, Noksu has been able to give brief medical coverage to senior residents living in government funded walfare apartments. Brief check-up includes screening and follow-up tests for hypertension and diabetes. Traditional Korean Medicine treatment is used to diagnose and treat patients.\n\nLatest Volunteer Service Dates\n\nDespite the evermore increasing families of international marriage, the national medical coverage doesn't cover aliens who have yet acquired green card or citizenship. The staff had decided to support multicultural families and have participated in medical voluntary service.\n\nLatest Volunteer Service Date(s)\nUpcoming Volunteer Service Date(s)\n\nNoksu is not only an organization for volunteering but is also a big family. As Noksu is based on the idea of community, frequent meetings and training courses are taken all year round.\n\nThe staff is chosen in an election at end of the 2nd semester every year. Currently (2011) the 45th staff members are carrying on the spirit of the founders.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25680785", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25680785", "title": "Onuegbu E. Achalu", "text": "Onuegbu E. Achalu\n\nOnuegbu E. Achalu is a Nigerian health educator and one of the leading authorities on drug use in Nigerian student populations. In recent years he has been prominent among those active in efforts to reform and improve school systems in the Niger Delta region.\n\nDr. Achalu is Head of the Department of Physical & Health Education of the University of Uyo, in Uyo, Akwa Ibom State, Nigeria. He earned his Ph.D. (1982) in health education at Southern Illinois University Carbondale, where he studied under Prof. David F. Duncan. After completing his doctorate he returned to Nigeria and joined the faculty of the University of Cross River State as assistant professor of health. Subsequently he moved to the University of Uyo, where he has achieved the rank of full professor and serves on the university Senate.\n\n"}
{"id": "12582636", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12582636", "title": "POPLINE", "text": "POPLINE\n\nPOPLINE (or Population Information Online) is a reproductive health database, containing citations with abstracts to scientific articles, reports, books, and unpublished reports in the field of population, family planning, and reproductive health issues. POPLINE is maintained by the K4Health Project at the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health/Center for Communication Programs, and it is funded by the United States Agency for International Development (USAID). \nThe original database consisted of citations from Popinform, a database maintained from 1973 to 1978 by the Population Information Program (PIP) at George Washington University. In 1978, the database, along with Population Information Program, moved to the Johns Hopkins University. Between 1980 and 2001, renamed POPLINE, the database became part of the United States National Library of Medicine's (NLM) Medical Literature Analysis and Retrieval System (MEDLARS) along with MEDLINE and other NLM databases.\n\nSince 2001, POPLINE has been maintained by the Knowledge for Health (K4Health) Project, formerly PIP then INFO, based at the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health/Center for Communication Programs. Access to POPLINE is available free of charge at its website. Other organizations contributed to POPLINE throughout its history, such as the Center for Population and Family Health (CPFH) Library/Information Program at Columbia University, Population Index at Princeton University, and the Carolina Population Center (CPC) at the University of North Carolina.\n\nPOPLINE provides more than 370,000 records citing worldwide literature in the area of reproductive health. The majority of items are published from 1970 to the present, but there are selected citations dating back to 1827. The database adds 12 thousand records annually and is updated weekly.\n\nThe database consists of bibliographic citations and abstracts to a variety of materials including journal articles, monographs, technical reports, and unpublished literature. \n\nSubjects covered internationally include family planning methods and programs, fertility, and population law and policy. Additional subjects covered in reference to developing countries include adolescent reproductive health, demography, environmental health, gender and health, health communication, sexually transmitted infections, maternal and child health, population and environment, and women in development.\n\nPOPLINE has both basic and advanced searches and offers customized searches provided on request to persons or institutions in developing countries. Full-text copies for most of the documents cited in POPLINE can be requested from users in low-income countries free of charge via mail or sent by email. In addition to free text searching, the database can be searched by keywords from the POPLINE Thesaurus, a controlled vocabulary of 2,400+ terms used to index documents in the database.\n\nIn 2008, the \"New York Times\" reported that Johns Hopkins University had instructed the POPLINE search engine to ignore the search term \"abortion\", as it ignores search terms such as \"a\" and \"the\", in February 2008 in response to pressure from the United States Agency for International Development. Making the term a stop word removed the ability of users to search for this common term for a reproductive health issue.\n\nAfter learning of the restriction on finding abortion-related articles, the dean of the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health, Michael J. Klag, lifted the restriction. \n\n"}
{"id": "12382153", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12382153", "title": "Patient Group Directions", "text": "Patient Group Directions\n\nPatient Group Directions (PGDs) are documents in the U.K. National Health Service that permit the supply of prescription-only medicines to groups of patients, without individual prescriptions.\n"}
{"id": "1299938", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1299938", "title": "Peasant foods", "text": "Peasant foods\n\nPeasant foods are dishes specific to a particular culture, made from accessible and inexpensive ingredients, and usually prepared and seasoned to make them more palatable. They often form a significant part of the diets of people who live in poverty, or have a lower income compared to the average for their society or country.\n\nPeasant foods have been described as being the diet of peasants, that is, tenant or poorer farmers and their farm workers, and by extension, of other cash-poor people. They may use ingredients, such as offal and less-tender cuts of meat, which are not as marketable as a cash crop. Characteristic recipes often consist of hearty one-dish meals, in which chunks of meat and various vegetables are eaten in a savory broth, with bread or other staple food. Sausages are also amenable to varied readily available ingredients, and they themselves tend to contain offal and grains.\n\nPeasant foods often involve skilled preparation by knowledgeable cooks using inventiveness and skills passed down from earlier generations. Such dishes are often prized as ethnic foods by other cultures and by descendants of the native culture who still desire these traditional dishes.\n\nGround meat or meat scraps mixed with grain in approximately equal proportions, then often formed into a loaf, sliced, and fried \n\nGround meat or meat scraps extended with crackers or bread and vegetables, then formed into balls, patties, or loaves and baked.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1763579", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1763579", "title": "Population Media Center", "text": "Population Media Center\n\nThe Population Media Center (PMC) is an international non-profit organisation, founded in 1998 by Bill Ryerson and headquartered in South Burlington, Vermont, United States.\n\nThe organization works with mass media and other organizations to achieve the stabilization of the human population at a level that can be sustained by the world's natural resources. It also aims to lessen the impact of the growing number of humans on the environment. The organization helps to educate people about the benefits of small families, encourages the use of family planning, upholds women's status and promotes gender equity.\n\nThe organization creates long-running serial dramas based on its particular entertainment methodology, derived from Miguel Sabido's original Entertainment-Education approach, to help change attitudes and behavior related to people's health and well-being. This methodology has been scientifically shown to lead to population-wide behavior change in many countries where it has been implemented, and was spread widely by former PMC board member and advisor David Poindexter.\n\nSince its inception, PMC has initiated projects in: \n\n"}
{"id": "30480312", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30480312", "title": "Registered Nurse Certified in Low Risk Neonatal Nursing", "text": "Registered Nurse Certified in Low Risk Neonatal Nursing\n\nRegistered Nurse, Certified in Low Risk Neonatal Nursing (RNC-LRN) is the designation for a neonatal nurse who has earned nursing board certification from the National Certification Corporation in low risk neonatal nursing.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47586500", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47586500", "title": "Revenue cycle management", "text": "Revenue cycle management\n\nRevenue cycle management is the process used by healthcare systems in the United States to track the revenue from patients, from their initial appointment or encounter with the healthcare system to their final payment of balance. The cycle can be defined as, \"all administrative and clinical functions that contribute to the capture, management, and collection of patient service revenue.\" It is a cycle that describes and explains the life cycle of a patient (and subsequent revenue and payments) through a typical healthcare encounter from admission (registration) to final payment (or adjustment off of accounts receivables). \n\nThe revenue cycle management process begins when a patient schedules an appointment and it ends when the healthcare provider has accepted all payments. Errors in revenue cycle management can lead to the healthcare provider receiving delayed payments or no payment at all. Because the revenue cycle process is complex and subject to regulatory oversight, healthcare providers can turn over their revenue cycle management to companies that handle this complex process 24/7 with specialized agents and proprietary technologies to manage healthcare provider revenue cycles.\n\nMedical billing is getting increasingly more complicated, especially as medical code guidelines are making the switch from ICD-9 to ICD-10. Proper revenue cycle management ensures that billing errors are reduced so that reimbursements from the insurance companies are maximized. Revenue cycle management teams are responsible for maintaining compliance with coding regulations, such as the ICD-10 code update. Using the right coding for services rendered by a practice ensures that insurance claims can be processed and that the practitioner is compensated for all of their services rendered. A revenue cycle management team is able to handle this, rather than having the doctor take care of patients and learn new medical coding protocols.\n\nIn 2014 the revenue cycle management market was valued at $18.3 billion and is expected to grow to $32.2 billion by 2019.\n\nFor remittance received in 2014, the average physician practice took 18 days to generate a claim after the date of service and had an 11% denial rate.\n\nRevenue cycle management is often considered a segment of the greater healthcare IT industry which includes HIS, RIS, EHR, PACS, CPOE, VNA, mHealth, healthcare analytics, telehealth, supply chain management, CRM, fraud management, and claims management.\n\nThe first function within the revenue cycle is the registration function, which allows the service provider to obtain all of the necessary data needed in order to properly bill an insurance company (per the ANSI 837 5010 standards and requirements). Clerical errors that are made within patient registration processes are one of the biggest culprits that cause non-clinical denials from insurance payers. This can include many errors such as inputting an incorrect date of birth, not validating current insurance coverage/benefits, misspelling a guarantor's name, etc. Normally, these errors are usually easy to identify and amend upon submitting a new bill to most payers after correcting a mistake made in the registration department. It is critically important to monitor denials on a daily basis in order to identify how much of denial ratio is generated from these clerical errors so that both training and education can take place with the appropriate staff within the registration department.\n\nAn important aspect of the revenue cycle is compliance with medical coding regulations. Optimal coding compliance results in higher revenues and decreases claim denials from insurance companies. By achieving optimal coding, a medical practice can prevent disruption of the medical flow and avoid regulatory penalties.\n\nOtherwise known as the Business Office or Patient Financial Services department, the billing/collections team are responsible for submitting a complete UB-04 claim (facility and ancillary billing) or a CMS1500 form (physician billing) to the insurance payers after a patient has received services for either an inpatient or outpatient type of visit. Usually, a third party claim scrubbing system is then used to ensure that claims are as clean and complete as possible, including edits that may automatically update the raw claim data received from the host system. The intention of this scrubbing is to inevitably avoid generating a potential denial from the payer, which can prolong reimbursement to a provider. The claim is then sent out from the provider to the payer in an ANSI 837 5010 standard format.\n\nDenials can be sent back as a response to the claim from the payer stating a specific reason of why the claim cannot be adjudicated. This is where denial management processes help to ensure that there is an immediate resolution to these denials. Denial management can also help to identify if there are trending issues within a provider's workflow processes, whether it be clinical or clerical-related. Feedback should be provided to the responsible revenue cycle departments if any of them were the cause of the denial, especially with denial types such as medical necessity, registration/clerical entry errors, etc.\n"}
{"id": "256599", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=256599", "title": "Santiago Ramón y Cajal", "text": "Santiago Ramón y Cajal\n\nSantiago Ramón y Cajal (; 1 May 1852 – 17 October 1934) was a Spanish neuroscientist and pathologist, specializing in neuroanatomy, particularly the histology of the central nervous system. He and Camillo Golgi received the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine in 1906, with Ramón y Cajal thereby becoming the first person of Spanish origin who won a scientific Nobel Prize. His original investigations of the microscopic structure of the brain made him a pioneer of modern neuroscience. Hundreds of his drawings illustrating the delicate arborizations of brain cells are still in use for educational and training purposes.\n\nSantiago Ramón y Cajal was born 1 May 1852 in the town of Petilla de Aragón, Navarre, Spain. His father was an anatomy teacher.\n\nAs a child he was transferred many times from one school to another because of behavior that was declared poor, rebellious, and showing an anti-authoritarian attitude. An extreme example of his precociousness and rebelliousness at the age of eleven is his 1863 imprisonment for destroying his neighbor's yard gate with a homemade cannon.\n\nHe was an avid painter, artist, and gymnast, but his father neither appreciated nor encouraged these abilities, even though these artistic talents would contribute to his success later in life. His father apprenticed him to a shoemaker and barber, to \"try and give his son much-needed discipline and stability.\" He was well known for his pugnacious attitude as he worked.\n\nOver the summer of 1868, his father hoped to interest his son in a medical career, and took him to graveyards to find human remains for anatomical study. Sketching bones was a turning point for him and subsequently, he did pursue studies in medicine.\n\nRamón y Cajal attended the medical school of the University of Zaragoza, where his father was an anatomy teacher. He graduated in 1873, aged 21. After a competitive examination, he served as a medical officer in the Spanish Army. He took part in an expedition to Cuba in 1874–75, where he contracted malaria and tuberculosis. In order to heal, he visited the Panticosa spa-town in the Pyrenees.\n\nAfter returning to Spain, he received his doctorate in medicine in Madrid in 1877. In 1879, he became the director of the Zaragoza Museum, and he married Silveria Fañanás García, with whom he had seven daughters and five sons. Ramón y Cajal worked at the University of Zaragoza until 1883, when he was awarded the position of anatomy professor of the University of Valencia. His early work at these two universities focused on the pathology of inflammation, the microbiology of cholera, and the structure of epithelial cells and tissues.\n\nIn 1887 Ramón y Cajal moved to Barcelona for a professorship. \nThere he first learned about Golgi's method, a cell staining method which uses potassium dichromate and silver nitrate to (randomly) stain a few neurons a dark black color, while leaving the surrounding cells transparent. This method, which he improved, was central to his work, allowing him to turn his attention to the central nervous system (brain and spinal cord), in which neurons are so densely intertwined that standard microscopic inspection would be nearly impossible. During this period he made extensive detailed drawings of neural material, covering many species and most major regions of the brain.\n\nIn 1892, he became professor at Madrid. \nin 1899 he became director of the \"Instituto Nacional de Higiene – \"translated as \"National Institute of Hygiene \", and in 1922 founder of the – translated as the \"Laboratory of Biological Investigations \", later renamed to the , or Cajal Institute.\n\nHe died in Madrid on October 17, 1934, at the age of 82, continuing to work even on his deathbed.\n\nIn 1877, the 25-year-old Ramón y Cajal joined a Masonic lodge. John Brande Trend wrote in 1965 that Ramón y Cajal \"was a liberal in politics, an evolutionist in philosophy, an agnostic in religion\".\nNonetheless, Ramón y Cajal used the term soul \"without any shame\".\nHe was said to later have regretted having left organized religion, Ultimately, he became convinced of a belief in God as a creator, as stated during his first lecture before the Spanish Royal Academy of Sciences.\n\nRamón y Cajal made several major contributions to neuroanatomy. He discovered the axonal growth cone, and demonstrated experimentally that the relationship between nerve cells was not \"continuous\", but \"contiguous\". This provided definitive evidence for what Heinrich Waldeyer coined the term neuron theory as opposed to the reticular theory This is now widely considered the foundation of modern neuroscience.\n\nHe was an advocate of the existence of dendritic spines, although he did not recognize them as the site of contact from presynaptic cells. He was a proponent of polarization of nerve cell function and his student, Rafael Lorente de Nó, would continue this study of input-output systems into cable theory and some of the earliest circuit analysis of neural structures.\n\nBy producing excellent depictions of neural structures and their connectivity and providing detailed descriptions of cell types he discovered a new type of cell, which was subsequently named after him, the interstitial cell of Cajal (ICC). This cell is found interleaved among neurons embedded within the smooth muscles lining the gut, serving as the generator and pacemaker of the slow waves of contraction which move material along the gastrointestinal tract, mediating neurotransmission from motor neurons to smooth muscle cells.\n\nIn his 1894 Croonian Lecture, Ramón y Cajal suggested (in an extended metaphor) that cortical pyramidal cells may become more elaborate with time, as a tree grows and extends its branches.\n\nHe devoted a considerable amount of time studying French which he used to help his wife during labor and parapsychological phenomena. A book he had written on these topics was lost during the Spanish Civil War.\n\nRamón y Cajal's efforts to improve the state of scientific research and education in Spain were part of a broader preoccupation with Regenerationism among Spanish intellectuals.\n\nRamón y Cajal received many prizes, distinctions, and societal memberships during his scientific career, including honorary doctorates in medicine from Cambridge University and Würzburg University and an honorary doctorate in philosophy from Clark University. The most famous distinction he was awarded was the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine in 1906, together with the Italian scientist Camillo Golgi \"in recognition of their work on the structure of the nervous system\". This caused some controversy because Golgi, a staunch supporter of reticular theory, disagreed with Ramón y Cajal in his view of the neuron doctrine. Even before Ramón y Cajal's work, Norwegian scientist Fridtjof Nansen established the contiguous nature of nerve cells in his study of certain marine life, which Ramón y Cajal failed to cite.\n\nHe published more than 100 scientific works and articles in Spanish, French and German. Among his most notable works were:\n\nA list of his books includes:\nIn 1905, he published five science-fiction stories called \"Vacation Stories\" under the pen name \"Dr. Bacteria\".\n\nThe asteroid 117413 Ramonycajal has been named in his honor.\n\nIn 2014, the National Institutes of Health exhibited original Ramón y Cajal drawings in its Neuroscience Research Center.\n\nAn exhibition called \"The Beautiful Brain: The Drawings of Santiago Ramón y Cajal\" travelled through the US beginning 2017 at the Weisman Art Museum in Minneapolis ending April 2019 at the Ackland Art Museum in Chapel Hill, North Carolina.\n\nA short documentary by REDES is available on YouTube Spanish public television filmed a biopic series to commemorate his life.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29347081", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29347081", "title": "Saudi Society of Dermatology and Dermatologic Surgery", "text": "Saudi Society of Dermatology and Dermatologic Surgery\n\nThe Saudi Society of Dermatology and Dermatologic Surgery (in Arabic الجمعية السعودية لأمراض وجراحة الجلد), commonly abbreviated as SSDDS, (formerly The Saudi Society of Dermatology and Venereology), is a scientific organization that was established in 1989; to unite dermatologist and venereologist in Saudi Arabia to contribute their experiences and research for the development of healthcare solutions to skin diseases facing the citizenry in the country and other dermatologic related issues.\n\nDr. Sami Al Sogair has been attributed to the foundation of the society, who also stands as its president since 1989 until 1994.\n\nIn 1994, an SSDDS election installed Dr. Omar Abdul Aziz Al-Sheikh as president and holds this post up to present.\n\nThe 13th National Symposium of the SSDDS was held on 30–31 December 2009.\n"}
{"id": "44279074", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44279074", "title": "Shahid Syed Nazrul Islam Medical College", "text": "Shahid Syed Nazrul Islam Medical College\n\nShahid Syed Nazrul Islam Medical College () is a government medical school in Bangladesh, established in 2011. It is located at Kishoreganj. The college is affiliated with University of Dhaka as a constituent college.\n\nIt offers 5 years MBBS degree programme and admits 52 students every year.\n\nShahid Syed Nazrul Islam Medical College was established in 2011. It was named after Syed Nazrul Islam, the first acting President of Bangladesh.\n\nIn the year 2010-2011, Bangladesh government approved to establish 4 medical colleges at Jessore, Satkhira, Kishoreganj and Kushtia with a view to improve the healthcare services in the country. Executive Committee of the National Economic Council (ECNEC) endorsed the project. An estimated cost of Tk 5.45 billion was approved as budget to establish Shahid Syed Nazrul Islam Medical College. The project included construction of six storied hospital building, five storied college for academic building, nurses training center, students hostel, internee doctors' hostel, doctors' dormitory, staff nurses' dormitory, mosque, auditorium, principal and directors' residential buildings, installation of gymnasium, procurement of equipment, one micro-bus, two ambulances and furniture with the fund.\n\n"}
{"id": "26897222", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26897222", "title": "Smear layer", "text": "Smear layer\n\nThe smear layer is a layer of microcrystalline and organic particle debris that is found spread on root canal walls after root canal instrumentation. It was first described in 1975 and much research has been performed since then to evaluate its importance in assisting or preventing the penetration of bacteria into the dentinal tubules. More broadly, it is the organic layer found over all hard tooth surfaces.\n\nEarly studies of dentinal walls after cavity preparation performed by Brännström and Johnson (1974) showed the presence of a thin layer of debris that was 2 to 5 micrometres thick.\n\nIn 1975 McComb and Smith first described the smear layer. They observed an amorphous layer of debris, with an irregular and granular surface, on instrumented dentinal walls using a scanning electron microscope (SEM). This smear layer was composed of dentin, pulp and bacterial remnants. The authors stated that “most standard instrumentation techniques produced a canal wall that was smeared and packed with debris.”\n\nIn 1984 Pashely described the smear layer as being composed of two phases; an organic phase, composed of collagen residues and glycosaminoglycans from extracellular matrix of pulp cells, which acts as a matrix for an inorganic phase. This organomineral content is composed of two distinct superposed layers. The first layer covers the canal wall and is loosely adherent and easy to remove. The second layer however occludes the dentinal tubules and strongly adheres to the canal walls.\n\nIn the same year Mader et al. studied the morphological characteristics of the smear layer in teeth that were endodontically instrumented with k type files and irrigated with 5.25% NaOCl. The smear layer was examined from two aspects; the first “downonto” the smear layer and the second from the side or profile view. Photomicrographs obtained by SEM showed that the smear layer consists of two confluent components. A thin superficial layer 1-2 micrometres thick overlying a densely packed layer that penetrated into the dentinal tubules for distances of up to 40 micrometres. The packed material showed finger like structures projecting into the tubules from the canal wall. There is still controversy over whether the smear layer should be removed and whether the disadvantages of leaving it in place overcome its benefits.\n\nOlgart et al. (1974) examined the penetration of bacteria into dentinal tubules of ground, fractured and acid treated dentin surfaces. In vitro the penetration of bacteria into tubules of intact dentin exposed by fracture was compared in pairs of teeth, one of which in each pair was mounted with intrapulpal hydrostatic pressure (30mmHg). In vivo, intra pair comparisons of bacterial invasion into dentinal tubules beneath ground, fractured and acid treated surfaces were made. They observed that an outward flow of fluids into the tubules due to intrapulpal pressure mechanically hindered bacterial growth and that the debris and smear layer produced from grinding obstructed the bacterial invasion into tubules. However this barrier seemed to be removed after a few days which allowed bacterial growth into intact dentin. Olgart came to a conclusion that acid produced by microorganisms may dissolve the smear layer allowing bacteria to pass into dentinal tubules.\n\nHowever, when Pashley et al. (1981) studied the scanning electron microscope (SEM) appearance of dentin before and after removing successive layers of the smear layer they came to a different conclusion. Twenty dentin disks were cut from human extracted third molars. The dentin surface of the disks was etched with 6% citric acid for 5, 15, 30, 45 and 60 seconds. SEM examination showed that citric acid was able to remove smear layer in successive layers according to etching time finally exposing the dentinal tubules. Pashley concluded that the maintenance of the smear layer established a protective diffusion barrier.\n\nGettleman et al. (1991) assessed the influence of a smear layer on the adhesion of sealer cements to dentin. A total of 120 teeth was tested, 40 per sealer namely AH26, Sultan, and Sealapex; 20 each with and without the smear layer. The teeth were split longitudinally, and the internal surfaces were ground flat. In the smear layer-free specimens the smear layer was removed by washing for 3 minutes with 17% EDTA followed by 5.25% NaOCl. Using a specially designed jig, the sealer was placed into a 4-mm wide × 4-mm deep well which was then set onto the tooth at a 90-degree angle and allowed to set for 7 days. This set-up was then placed into a mounting jig which was designed for the Instron Universal Testing Machine so that only a tensile load was applied without shearing. The set-up was subjected to a tensile load at a crosshead speed of 1 mm per min. The only significant difference with regard to the presence or absence of the smear layer was found with AH26, which had a stronger bond when the smear layer was removed.\n\nClark-Holke et al. (2003) focused on determining the effect of the smear layer on the magnitude of bacterial penetration through the apical foramen around obturating materials. Thirty extracted teeth were classified into two test groups; the first group had the smear layer removed by rinsing with 17% EDTA while in the second group the smear layer was left intact. Canal preparation and obturation using lateral condensation, gutta-percha, and AH 26 sealer was performed on all of the teeth. The model systems consisted of an upper chamber attached to the cemento-enamel junction and a lower chamber at the apices of the teeth. Standardized bacterial suspensions containing \"Fusobacterium nucleatum\", \"Campylobacter rectus\" and \"Peptostreptococcus micros\" were inoculated into the upper chambers. Models were incubated anaerobically at 37 degrees C. Leakage results were as follows: In the first group 6 teeth showed bacterial leakage, the second group and third groups showed no bacterial leakage. This study indicated that removal of the smear layer reduced the leakage of bacteria through the root canal system.\n\nKokkas et al. (2004) examined the effect of the smear layer on the penetration depth of three different sealers (AH Plus, Apexit, and a Grossman type-Roth 811) into the dentinal tubules. Sixty four extracted human single-rooted teeth were used and divided into two groups. The smear layer remained intact in all the roots of group A. Complete removal of the smear layer in group B was achieved after irrigation with 3 ml of 17% EDTA for 3 min, followed by 3 ml of 1% NaOCl solution. Ten roots from each group were obturated with AH Plus and laterally condensed gutta-percha points. The same process was repeated for the remaining roots by using sealers Apexit and Roth 811 correspondingly. After complete setting, the maximum penetration depth of the sealers into the dentinal tubules was examined in upper, middle, and lower levels. The smear layer prevented all the sealers from penetrating dentinal tubules. In contrast, in smear layer–free root canals, all the sealers penetrated dentinal tubules, although the depth of penetration varied between the sealers. Furthermore, smear layer adversely affected the coronal and apical sealing ability of sealers.\n\nÇobankara et al. (2004) determined the effect of the smear layer on apical and coronal leakage in root canals obturated with AH26 or RoekoSeal sealers. A total of 160 maxillary anterior teeth were used. Eight groups were created by all possible combinations of three factors: smear layer (present/absent), leakage assessment (apical/coronal), and sealer used (AH26/Roeko-Seal). All teeth were obturated using lateral condensation technique of gutta-percha. A fluid filtration method was used to test apical or coronal leakage. According to the results of this study, the smear (+) groups displayed higher apical and coronal leakage than those smear (-) groups for both root canal sealers. Apical leakage was significantly higher than coronal leakage for both root canal sealers used in this study. It was determined that that removal of the smear layer has a positive effect in reducing apical and coronal leakage for both AH26 and RoekoSeal root canal sealers.\n\nHowever Bertacci et al. (2007) evaluated the ability of a warm gutta-percha obturation system Thermafil to fill lateral channels in the presence or absence of the smear layer. Forty single-rooted extracted human teeth were randomly divided into two groups one of which had the smear layer removed by 5 ml of 5% NaOCl followed by 2.5 ml of 17% EDTA. Obturation was performed using AH Plus sealer and Thermafil. Specimens were cleared in methyl salicylate and analyzed under a stereomicroscope to evaluate the number, length, and diameter of lateral channels. All lateral channels were found to be filled in both groups. No statistically significant differences regarding number, length, and diameter were observed between the two groups. It was concluded that the smear layer did not prevent the sealing of lateral channels.\n\nYildirim et al. (2008) investigated the effect of the smear layer on apical microleakage in teeth obturated with MTA. Fifty single-rooted central maxillary teeth were used in this study. The selected teeth were instrumented and randomly divided into 2 groups. In the first group (smear [+]), the teeth were irrigated with only 5.25% NaOCl. In the second group (smear [-]), the teeth were irrigated with EDTA (17%) and NaOCl (5.25%) to remove the smear layer. The teeth were then filled with MTA. The computerized fluid filtration method was used for evaluation of apical microleakage. The quantitative apical leakage of each tooth was measured after 2, 30, and 180 days. It was found that there was no difference between the groups after 2 days but removal of the smear layer caused significantly more apical microleakage than when the smear layer was left intact after 30 and 180 days. It was concluded that the apical microleakage of MTA is less when the smear layer is present than when it is absent.\n\nSaleh et al. (2008) studied the effect of the smear layer on the penetration of bacteria along different root canal filling materials. A total of 110 human root segments were instrumented to size 80 under irrigation with 1% sodium hypochlorite. Half of the roots were irrigated with a 5-mL rinse of 17% EDTA to remove the smear layer. Roots were filled with gutta-percha (GP) and AH Plus sealer (AH), GP and Apexit sealer (AP), or RealSeal cones and sealer (RS). Following storage in humid conditions at 37 degrees C for 7 days, the specimens were mounted into a bacterial leakage test model for 135 days. Survival analyses were performed to calculate the median time of leakage and log-rank test was used for pairwise comparisons of groups. Selected specimens were longitudinally sectioned and inspected by scanning electron microscopy for the presence of bacteria at the interfaces. In the presence of the smear layer, RS and AP leaked significantly more slowly than in its absence. In the absence of the smear layer, AH leaked significantly more slowly than RS. It was concluded that removal of the smear layer did not impair bacterial penetration along root canal fillings. A comparison of the sealers revealed no difference except that AH performed better than RS in the absence of the smear layer.\n\nFachin et al.(2009) evaluated whether smear layer removal has any influence on the filling of the root canal system, by examining the obturation of lateral canals, secondary canals and apical deltas. Eighty canines were randomly divided into two groups, according to their irrigation regimen. Both groups were irrigated with 1% NaOCl during canal shaping, but only the teeth in Group II received a final irrigation with 17% EDTA for smear layer removal. The root canals were obturated with lateral condensation of gutta-percha and the specimens were cleared, allowing for observation under the microscope. The results showed that In Groups I and II, 42.5% and 37.5% of the teeth, respectively, presented at least one filled canal ramification. In conclusion, smear layer removal under the conditions tested in this study did not affect the obturation of root canal ramifications when lateral condensation of gutta-percha was the technique used for root canal filling.\n"}
{"id": "55269338", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55269338", "title": "Turkey at the Deaflympics", "text": "Turkey at the Deaflympics\n\nTurkey has been participating at the Deaflympics since 1989 and has earned a total of 108 medals.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44186184", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44186184", "title": "UCLA Health", "text": "UCLA Health\n\nUCLA Health is an academic medical center which comprises a number of hospitals and an extensive primary care network in the Los Angeles region. Together, the network aims to achieve coverage for two million lives: \"every 4 miles 4 PCPs plus a 50,000 sq. ft. hub within 15 miles\". As a regional health provider, it benefits from the academic affiliation offered by the UCLA campus, as this increases its status in the medical marketplace. For instance, the symbiotic relationship with the campus allowed the creation of nominal assistant professor-level appointments for primary care physicians, but this practice has now been limited because of opposition from the academic community. In 2007, UCLA Health founded Operation Mend, a program for treating military veterans who were wounded in wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. In 2016 Operation Mend received a grant from Wounded Warrior Project to expand its offering to include PTSD treatment and became part of the Warrior Care Network.\n\nA 2013 report by the California State Auditor has suggested that the financial transactions from the health system to the medical school, which have grown threefold over the reporting period, deserve more transparency. A study by the Rand Corporation about leadership structures at UCLA Health again addresses the ambiguous position of UCLA Health as both an academic and a commercial entity. More recently, the UCOP has scheduled a bylaw amendment for the Committee on Health Services with a view to change the composition of the leadership structure to enable the UCLA Health System (then so called) to compete and collaborate more effectively in the health services marketplace. \n\nThe governance structure includes a non-fiduciary Board of Overseers and a Community Engagement Committee that is made up of faculty and staff and reports to the Vice Chancellor, Health Sciences. In addition there is a UCLA Health Sustainability Steering Committee. \n\nBudgetary information for bondholders (2013) and the 2014–2015 Financial Report are available through the University of California Office of the President.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2961766", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2961766", "title": "USMLE Step 2 Clinical Knowledge", "text": "USMLE Step 2 Clinical Knowledge\n\nThe USMLE-Step 2-CK (\"Clinical Knowledge\") is the nine-hour-long multiple-choice portion of the second part of the United States Medical Licensure Examination. It assesses clinical knowledge through a traditional, multiple-choice examination. In contrast to the USMLE Step 1, the focus is much more on clinical application of medical knowledge. It assesses the ability to apply medical knowledge, skills, and understanding of clinical science essential for the provision of patient care under supervision. The USMLE Step 2 is generally taken during the 4th year of medical school by medical students. From January 2010, to take the exam in North America the registration fee is $605 (as of December 2016) for students attending medical colleges in the United States and $850 for medical students from other countries. There are additional charges for applicants who choose a testing region outside the United States or Canada.\n\nThe exam is a 9-hour single-day computer-based test composed of eight question sets with no more than 40 questions per set. Each section is one hour long. The test taker is permitted 45 minutes, in total for the whole day, for the purpose of breaks that can only be taken between sections. There is a 15-minute tutorial at the beginning of the exam, which the test-taker can choose to skip, and have the time added to the break time. If the taker finishes any section before the allotted 1 hour time limit, the remainder of the time is added to break time. The test is administered at the Prometric testing sites around the world.\n\nStep 2 CK includes test items in the following content areas: internal medicine, obstetrics and gynecology, pediatrics, preventive medicine, psychiatry, surgery, other areas relevant to provision of care under supervision.\n\nMost Step 2 CK test items describe clinical situations and require that you provide one or more of the following: diagnosis, a prognosis, an indication of underlying mechanisms of disease, the next step in medical care, including preventive measures.\n\nStep 2 CK is a broadly based, integrated examination. It frequently requires interpretation of tables and laboratory data, imaging studies, photographs of gross and microscopic pathologic specimens, and results of other diagnostic studies. Step 2 CK classifies test items along two dimensions: disease category and physician task.\n\nScoring is reported in 3 digit scores. Scores fall between 1 and 300, with the mean score of 240 and the standard deviation of 18 for first-time takers from accredited medical schools in the United States and Canada for the 2013/14 and 2014/15 academic years. Every three to four years the Step Committees are asked to complete an in-depth review of standards, and they may schedule more frequent reviews. At its May 2014 meeting, the Step 2 Committee conducted a review for USMLE Step 2 Clinical Knowledge (CK). As a result of its review, the Step 2 Committee decided to raise the Step 2 recommended minimum passing score to 209 for students taking the test after July 1, 2014. A more recent review in May 2018 maintained the passing score of 209. \n\nThe USMLE Step 2 CK score is one of many factors considered by residency programs in selecting applicants. Along with the USMLE Step 1, this test is a standardized measure of all applicants. The median USMLE Step 2 scores for graduates of U.S. Medical Schools for various residencies can be found in \"Charting Outcomes in the Match\" available at http://www.nrmp.org/wp-content/uploads/2014/09/Charting-Outcomes-2014-Final.pdf\n\n"}
{"id": "52487892", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52487892", "title": "Ureterovaginal fistula", "text": "Ureterovaginal fistula\n\nA ureterovaginal fistula is an abnormal passageway existing between the ureter and the vagina. It presents as urinary incontinence. Its impact on women is to reduce the \"quality of life dramatically.\"\n\nA urerovaginal fistula is a result of trauma, infection, pelvic surgery, radiation treatment and therapy, malignancy, or inflammatory bowel disease. Symptoms can be troubling for women especially since some clinicians delay treatment until inflammation is reduced and stronger tissue has formed. The fistula may develop as a maternal birth injury from a long and protracted labor, long dilation time and expulsion period. Difficult deliveries can create pressure necrosis in the tissue that is being pushed between the head of the infant and the softer tissues of the vagina, ureters, and bladder.\n\nRadiographic imaging can assist clinicians in identifying the abnormality. A Ureterovaginal fistula is always indicative of an obstructed kidney necessitating emergency intervention followed later by an elective surgical repair of the fistula.\n\nMany women delay treatment for decades. Surgeons often will correct the fistula through major gynecological surgery. Newer treatments can include the placement of a stent and is usually successful. In 0.5-2.5% of major pelvic surgeries a ureterovaginal fistula will form, usually weeks later. If the fistula cannot be repaired, the clinician may create a permanent diversion of urine or urostomy. Risks associated with the repair of the fistula are also associated with most other surgical procedures and include the risk of adhesions, disorders of wound healing, infection, ileus, and immobilization. There is a recurrence rate of 5%–15% in the surgical operation done to correct the fistula.\n\nBirth injuries that result in the formation of fistulas and urinary and fecal incontinence have been found to be strongly associated with economic and cultural factors. Teenagers and women who sustain injuries that develop into ureterovaginal fistulas during childbirth suffer significant social stigma. Ureterovaginal fistulas related to prolonged, obstructed labor are rare in developed nations but are more common in countries where access to emergent obstetrical care is limited.\n"}
{"id": "41863204", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41863204", "title": "Werner Spitz", "text": "Werner Spitz\n\nWerner Uri Spitz (born August 22, 1926) is a German-American forensic pathologist who has worked on a number of high-profile cases, including the investigations of the assassinations of president John F. Kennedy and Martin Luther King, Jr. He also testified at the trials of Casey Anthony and Phil Spector, the civil trial against O.J. Simpson, and consulted on the investigation of JonBenét Ramsey's death.\n\nHe authored the book \"Spitz and Fisher's Medicolegal Investigation of Death: Guidelines for the Application of Pathology to Crime Investigation\"; an important book in the field often referred to as \"the bible of forensic pathology\".\n\nWerner Spitz was born in 1926 to Siegfried and Anna Spitz in Stargard, Germany (now Poland), both physicians. With the growing antisemitism in Germany, his family fled to Mandatory Palestine when he was a child. Spitz's father got Werner a job working in a medical examiner's office where he was charged with cleaning and other small duties. Spitz eventually began assisting with the autopsies and he recalls assisting with the autopsy of future Israeli Prime Minister Golda Meir's husband Morris Meyerson in 1951. He began medical school at the Geneva University in Switzerland. After four years in Geneva, the Hebrew University in Jerusalem established the university's Medical School and he transferred, receiving his medical doctorate after an additional three years. He graduated at the age of 27.\n\nSpitz moved to America in 1959. His decision to leave his native Israel was partly inspired by the lack of need for his chosen career path in the area. \"In seven years in Israel, there was only one murder.\" He said. \"It just wasn't the right place for a forensic pathologist.\" Spitz later served as Deputy Chief Medical Examiner in Baltimore, Maryland, and Chief Medical Examiner for Wayne County, Michigan (Wayne County includes the city of Detroit).\n\nIn 1969, Spitz testified on behalf of Joseph and Gwen Kopechne, the parents of Mary Jo Kopechne, who died following a car accident in the vehicle of Ted Kennedy. Kopechne was presumed to have died from drowning after Kennedy's car drove off a bridge on Chappaquiddick island and plunged into the water. Kopechne's parents were seeking to prevent her body from being exhumed and autopsied. Spitz testified that the autopsy was unnecessary and the available evidence was sufficient to conclude that Kopechne died from drowning. The judge sided with Kopechne's parents and denied the request for exhumation.\n\nIn 1970, while Spitz was the deputy chief medical examiner for Maryland, he determined that Sister Cathy Cesnik, a 26-year-old Catholic nun who disappeared in November 1969, had been murdered by a blow to the head. In 1994, a witness came forward and said a priest took her, then a young teen, to see Cesnik's body shortly after she had gone missing, as a warning to not say anything about the sexual abuse that was allegedly occurring at her Catholic school. The witness told police she remembered maggots on Cesnik's corpse, but was not believed, as police said there could not have been maggots in November. However, in 2016, when Spitz's original autopsy was made public, it noted there were maggots present. Werner confirmed this when interviewed for the 2017 Netflix series \"The Keepers\", about Cesnik's murder.\n\nIn 1975, Spitz was asked to work as an advisor to both the Rockefeller Commission and the House Select Committee on Assassinations. He reviewed the autopsy performed 12 years earlier on president John F. Kennedy by military pathologists. \"They botched that autopsy,\" Spitz said. \"They had absolutely no experience in forensic pathology.\" He attributed the flaws in the investigation to the fact that at that time in the United States, forensic pathology was in its infancy. Despite his conclusion that the original investigation was flawed, he agreed with the Warren Commission's conclusion that Lee Harvey Oswald acted alone in the shooting.\n\nIn 1979, Spitz consulted with the same committees on the assassination of Martin Luther King, Jr. The committee determined that King was killed by one rifle shot by James Earl Ray.\n\nIn 2011, he testified for the defense in the trial of Casey Anthony for the death of her daughter, Caylee. He disagreed with the prosecution's medical examiner Jan Garavaglia that the death could be ruled a homicide based on the autopsy, calling her work \"shoddy\". Garavaglia admitted that the cause of death could not be ascertained by the autopsy she performed, but ruled it a homicide based on the circumstances. He criticized her for failing to open the skull and test sediment found in the skull that he believed to be proof that she decomposed on her side instead of in the position in which she was found. He disagreed with the state's theory that duct tape found next to Caylee's body was used as a murder weapon, saying it is much more likely that the duct tape was placed after her death to hold the mandible in place when moving the body. He also believes that the placement of Caylee's hair was staged by someone before being photographed.\n\nSpitz is a professor of pathology at Wayne State University School of Medicine in Detroit, Michigan and an adjunct professor of pathology at the University of Windsor in Canada. He has authored a book entitled: \"Spitz and Fisher's Medicolegal Investigation of Death: Guidelines for the Application of Pathology to Crime Investigation\", an important book in the field often referred to as \"the bible of forensic pathology\".\n\nSpitz is the father of Daniel Spitz, who is also a pathologist.\n"}
{"id": "41558839", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41558839", "title": "William Creighton Woodward", "text": "William Creighton Woodward\n\nWilliam Creighton Woodward M.D., (December 11, 1867 – December 22, 1949) was a medical doctor and a lawyer who was the legislative counsel for the American Medical Association from 1922 to 1939. He was an early proponent of medical marijuana.\n\nWoodward was born on December 11, 1867 in Washington, DC. He attended Georgetown University School of Medicine and graduated with an M.D. in 1889.\n\nIn 1894 he was appointed as the health officer for the District of Columbia.\n\nHe married Ray Elliott Woodward (1866-1960) around 1895, and had three children: Creighton Elliott Woodward (1897-1904), Doris Woodward (1899-1900), and Elinor Woodward (1904-1978).\n\nIn 1900 he received his law degree from Georgetown University.\n\nBy 1903 he was secretary of the Board of Medical Supervisors of the District of Columbia.\n\nIn 1918 he was appointed as the health officer for the Boston, Massachusetts.\n\nHe was the head of the Bureau of Legal Medicine and Legislation at the American Medical Association starting in 1922.\n\nHe opposed the Marihuana Tax Act of 1937. In 1938 as counsel for the American Medical Association he defended the AMA when the Sherman Antitrust Act was used to stop the AMA from preventing physicians from forming group practices.\n\nHe died on December 22, 1949 in Washington, DC. He was buried in Rock Creek Cemetery.\n\n"}
