{"id": "2868301", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2868301", "title": "Acoustic Doppler current profiler", "text": "Acoustic Doppler current profiler\n\nAn acoustic Doppler current profiler (ADCP) is a hydroacoustic current meter similar to a sonar, used to measure water current velocities over a depth range using the Doppler effect of sound waves scattered back from particles within the water column. The term ADCP is a generic term for all acoustic current profilers, although the abbreviation originates from an instrument series introduced by RD Instruments in the 1980s. The working frequencies range of ADCPs range from 38 kHz to several Megahertz. The device used in the air for wind speed profiling using sound is known as SODAR and works with the same underlying principles.\n\nADCPs contain piezoelectric transducers to transmit and receive sound signals. The traveling time of sound waves gives an estimate of the distance. The frequency shift of the echo is proportional to the water velocity along the acoustic path. To measure 3D velocities, at least three beams are required. In rivers, only the 2D velocity is relevant and ADCPs typically have two beams. In recent years, more functionality has been added to ADCPs (notably wave and turbulence measurements) and systems can be found with 2,3,4,5 or even 9 beams.\n\nFurther components of an ADCP are an electronic amplifier, a receiver, a clock to measure the traveling time, a temperature sensor, a compass to know the heading, and a pitch/roll sensor to know the orientation. An analog-to-digital converter and a digital signal processor are required to sample the returning signal in order to determine the Doppler shift. A temperature sensor is used to estimate the sound velocity at the instrument position using the seawater equation of state, and uses this to estimate scale the frequency shift to water velocities. This procedure assumes that the salinity has a preconfigured constant value. Finally, the results are saved to internal memory or output online to an external display software. \nThree common methods are used to calculate the Doppler shift and thus the water velocity along the acoustic beams. The first method uses a monochromatic transmit pulse and is referred to as \"incoherent\" or \"narrowband\". The method is robust and provides good quality mean current profiles but has limited space-time resolution. When the transmit pulse consists of coded elements that are repeated, the method is referred to as \"repeat sequence coding\" or \"broadband\". This method improves the space-time resolution by a factor of 5 (typical). Commercially, this method was protected by US patent 5615173 until 2011. The pulse-to-pulse coherent method relies on a sequence of transmit pulses where the echo from subsequent pulses are assumed not to interfere with each other. This method is only applicable for very short profiling ranges but the corresponding improvement in space time resolution is of order 1000.\n\nDepending on the mounting, one can distinguish between side-looking, downward- and upward-looking ADCPs. A bottom-mounted ADCP can measure the speed and direction of currents at equal intervals all the way to the surface. Mounted sideways on a wall or bridge piling in rivers or canals, it can measure the current profile from bank to bank. In very deep water they can be lowered on cables from the surface.\n\nThe primary usage is for oceanography. The instruments can also be used in rivers and canals to continuously measure the discharge.\n\nMounted on moorings within the water column or directly at the seabed, water current and wave studies may be performed. They can stay underwater for years at a time, the limiting factor is the lifetime of the battery pack. Depending on the nature of the deployment the instrument usually has the ability to be powered from shore, using the same umbilical cable for data communication. Deployment duration can be extended by a factor of three by substituting lithium battery packs for the standard alkaline packs.\n\nBy adjusting the window where the Doppler shift is calculated, it is possible to measure the relative velocity between the instrument and the bottom. This feature is referred to as bottom-track. The process has two parts; first identify the position of the bottom from the acoustic echo, then calculating the velocity from a window centered around the bottom position. When an ADCP is mounted on a moving ship, the bottom track velocity may be subtracted from the measured water velocity. The result is the net current profile. Bottom track provides the foundation for surveys of the water currents in coastal areas. In deep water where the acoustic signals cannot reach the bottom, the ship velocity is estimated from a more complex combination of velocity and heading information from GPS, gyro, etc.\n\nIn rivers, the ADCP is used to measure the total water transport. The method requires a vessel with an ADCP mounted over the side to cross from one bank to another while measuring continuously. Using the bottom track feature, the track of the boat as well as the cross sectional area is estimated after adjustment for left and right bank areas. The discharge can then be calculated as the dot product between the vector track and the current velocity. The method is in use by hydrographic survey organisations across the world and forms an important component in the stage-discharge curves used in many places to continuously monitor river discharge.\n\nFor underwater vehicles, the bottom tracking feature can be used as an important component in the navigation systems. In this case the velocity of the vehicle is combined with an initial position fix, compass or gyro heading, and data from the acceleration sensor. The sensor suite is combined (typically by use of a Kalman filter) to estimate the position of the vehicle. This may help to navigate submarines, autonomous, and remotely operated underwater vehicles.\nSome ADCPs can be configured to measure surface wave height and direction. The wave height is estimated with a vertical beam that measures the distance to the surface using the echo from short pulses and simple peak estimation algorithms. The wave direction is found by cross correlating the along-beam velocity estimates and the wave height measurement from the vertical beam. Wave measurements are typically available for seafloor-mounted instruments but recent improvements permit the instrument to be mounted also on rotating subsurface buoys.\n\nADCPs with pulse-to-pulse coherent processing can estimate the velocity with the precision required to resolve small scale motion. As a consequence, it is possible to estimate turbulent parameters from properly configured ADCPs. A typical approach is to fit the along beam velocity to the Kolmogorov structure configuration and thereby estimate the dissipation rate. The application of ADCPs to turbulence measurement is possible from stationary deployments but can also be done from moving underwater structures like gliders or from subsurface buoys.\n\nThe two major advantages of ADCPs is the absence of moving parts that are subject to biofouling and the remote sensing aspect, where a single, stationary instrument can measure the current profile over ranges exceeding 1000 m. This features allow for long term measurements of the ocean currents over a significant portion of the water column. Since the start in the mid-1980s, many thousand ADCPs have been used in the world oceans and the instrument has played a significant role in our understanding of the world ocean circulation.\n\nThe main disadvantage of the ADCPs is the loss of data close to the boundary. This mechanism, often referred to as a sidelobe interference, covers 6–12% of the water column and, for instruments looking up toward the surface, the loss of velocity information close to the surface is real disadvantage. Cost is also a concern but is normally dwarfed by the cost of the ship required to ensure a safe and professional deployment.\n\nAs any acoustical instrument, the ADCP contributes to noise pollution in the ocean which may interfere with cetacean navigation and echolocation. The effect depends on the frequency and the power of the instrument but most ADCPs operate in a frequency range where noise pollution has not been identified to be a serious problem.\n"}
{"id": "2369510", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2369510", "title": "Al Niyat", "text": "Al Niyat\n\nThe traditional stellar name Al Niyat (or Alniyat) comes from the Arabic النياط \"an-niyāţ\" meaning \"the arteries (of the scorpion)\", and referred to two stars of the constellation of Scorpius which flank Antares, the scorpion's heart. :\n\n"}
{"id": "321987", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=321987", "title": "Anunnaki", "text": "Anunnaki\n\nThe Anunnaki (also transcribed as Anunaki, Anunna, Ananaki, and other variations) are a group of deities that appear in the mythological traditions of the ancient Sumerians, Akkadians, Assyrians, and Babylonians. Descriptions of how many Anunnaki there were and what role they fulfilled are inconsistent and often contradictory. In the earliest Sumerian writings about them, which come from the Post-Akkadian period, the Anunnaki are the most powerful deities in the pantheon, descendants of An, the god of the heavens, and their primary function is to decree the fates of humanity.\n\nIn \"Inanna's Descent into the Netherworld\", the Anunnaki are portrayed as seven judges who sit before the throne of Ereshkigal in the Underworld. Later Akkadian texts, such as \"The Epic of Gilgamesh\", follow this portrayal. During the Old Babylonian period, the Anunnaki were believed to be the chthonic deities of the Underworld, while the gods of the heavens were known as the Igigi. The ancient Hittites identified the Anunnaki as the oldest generation of gods, who had been overthrown and banished to the Underworld by the younger gods. The Anunnaki have featured prominently in works of modern pseudohistory, such as the books of Zecharia Sitchin, and in conspiracy theories, such as those of David Icke.\n\nThe name \"Anunnaki\" is derived from An, the Sumerian god of the sky. The name is variously written \"a-nuna\", \"a-nuna-ke-ne\", or \"a-nun-na\", meaning \"princely offspring\" or \"offspring of An\".\n\nThe Anunnaki were believed to be the offspring of An and his consort, the earth goddess Ki. Samuel Noah Kramer identifies Ki with the Sumerian mother goddess Ninhursag, stating that they were originally the same figure. The oldest of the Anunnaki was Enlil, the god of air and chief god of the Sumerian pantheon. The Sumerians believed that, until Enlil was born, heaven and earth were inseparable. Then, Enlil cleaved heaven and earth in two and carried away the earth while his father An carried away the sky.\n\nThe Anunnaki are chiefly mentioned in literary texts and very little evidence to support the existence of any cult of them has yet been unearthed. This is likely due to the fact that each member of the Anunnaki had his or her own individual cult, separate from the others. Similarly, no representations of the Anunnaki as a group have yet been discovered, although a few depictions of its individual members have been identified. Deities in ancient Mesopotamia were almost exclusively anthropomorphic. They were thought to possess extraordinary powers and were often envisioned as being of tremendous physical size. The deities typically wore \"melam\", an ambiguous substance which \"covered them in terrifying splendor\". \"Melam\" could also be worn by heroes, kings, giants, and even demons. The effect that seeing a deity's \"melam\" has on a human is described as \"ni\", a word for the physical tingling of the flesh. Deities were almost always depicted wearing horned caps, consisting of up to seven superimposed pairs of ox-horns. They were also sometimes depicted wearing clothes with elaborate decorative gold and silver ornaments sewn into them.\n\nThe ancient Mesopotamians believed that their deities lived in Heaven, but that a god's statue was a physical embodiment of the god himself. As such, cult statues were given constant care and attention and a set of priests were assigned to tend to them. These priests would clothe the statues and place feasts before them so they could \"eat\". A deity's temple was believed to be that deity's literal place of residence. The gods had boats, full-sized barges which were normally stored inside their temples and were used to transport their cult statues along waterways during various religious festivals. The gods also had chariots, which were used for transporting their cult statues by land. Sometimes a deity's cult statue would be transported to the location of a battle so that the deity could watch the battle unfold. The major deities of the Mesopotamian pantheon, which included the Anunnaki, were believed to participate in the \"assembly of the gods\", through which the gods made all of their decisions. This assembly was seen as a divine counterpart to the semi-democratic legislative system that existed during the Third Dynasty of Ur ( 2112 BC — 2004 BC).\n\nThe earliest known usages of the term \"Anunnaki\" come from inscriptions written during the reign of Gudea ( 2144 — 2124 BC) and the Third Dynasty of Ur. In the earliest texts, the term is applied to the most powerful and important deities in the Sumerian pantheon: the descendants of the sky-god An. This group of deities probably included the \"seven gods who decree\": An, Enlil, Enki, Ninhursag, Nanna, Utu, and Inanna.\n\nAlthough certain deities are described as members of the Anunnaki, no complete list of the names of all the Anunnaki has survived and they are usually only referred to as a cohesive group in literary texts. Furthermore, Sumerian texts describe the Anunnaki inconsistently and do not agree on how many Anunnaki there were, or what their divine function was. Originally, the Anunnaki appear to have been heavenly deities with immense powers. In the poem \"Enki and the World Order\", the Anunnaki \"do homage\" to Enki, sing hymns of praise in his honor, and \"take up their dwellings\" among the people of Sumer. The same composition repeatedly states that the Anunnaki \"decree the fates of mankind\".\n\nVirtually every major deity in the Sumerian pantheon was regarded as the patron of a specific city and was expected to protect that city's interests. The deity was believed to permanently reside within that city's temple. One text mentions as many as fifty Anunnaki associated with the city of Eridu. In \"Inanna's Descent into the Netherworld\", there are only seven Anunnaki, who reside within the Underworld and serve as judges. Inanna stands trial before them for her attempt to take over the Underworld; they deem her guilty of hubris and condemn her to death.\n\nMajor deities in Sumerian mythology were associated with specific celestial bodies. Inanna was believed to be the planet Venus. Utu was believed to be the sun. Nanna was the moon. An was identified with all the stars of the equatorial sky, Enlil with those of the northern sky, and Enki with those of the southern sky. The path of Enlil's celestial orbit was a continuous, symmetrical circle around the north celestial pole, but those of An and Enki were believed to intersect at various points.\n\nAkkadian texts of the second millennium BC follow similar portrayals of the Anunnaki from \"Inanna's Descent into the Netherworld\", depicting them as chthonic Underworld deities. In an abbreviated Akkadian version of \"Inanna's Descent\" written in the early second millennium, Ereshkigal, the queen of the Underworld, comments that she \"drink[s] water with the Anunnaki\". Later in the same poem, Ereshkigal orders her servant Namtar to fetch the Anunnaki from Egalgina, to \"decorate the threshold steps with coral\", and to \"seat them on golden thrones\".\n\nDuring the Old Babylonian Period ( 1830 BC — c. 1531 BC), a new set of deities known as the Igigi are introduced. The relationship between the Anunnaki and the Igigi is unclear. On some occasions, the categories appear to be used synonymously, but in other writings, such as \"The Poem of Erra\", there is a clear distinction between the two. In the late Akkadian \"Atra-Hasis\" epic, the Igigi are the sixth generation of the gods who are forced to perform labor for the Anunnaki. After forty days, the Igigi rebel and the god Enki, one of the Anunnaki, creates humans to replace them.\n\nFrom the Middle Babylonian Period ( 1592 — 1155 BC) onward, the name \"Anunnaki\" was applied generally to the deities of the underworld; whereas the name \"Igigi\" was applied to the heavenly deities. During this period, the underworld deities Damkina, Nergal, and Madānu are listed as the most powerful among the Anunnaki, alongside Marduk, the national god of ancient Babylon.\n\nIn the standard Akkadian \"Epic of Gilgamesh\" ( 1200 BC) Utnapishtim, the immortal survivor of the Great Flood, describes the Anunnaki as seven judges of the Underworld, who set the land aflame as the storm approaches. Later, when the flood comes, Ishtar (the East Semitic equivalent to Inanna) and the Anunnaki mourn over the destruction of humanity.\n\nIn the Babylonian \"Enûma Eliš\", Marduk assigns the Anunnaki their positions. A late Babylonian version of the epic mentions 600 Anunnaki of the underworld, but only 300 Anunnaki of heaven, indicating the existence of a complex underworld cosmology. In gratitude, the Anunnaki, the \"Great Gods\", build Esagila, a \"splendid\" temple dedicated to Marduk, Ea, and Ellil. In the eighth-century BC \"Poem of Erra\", the Anunnaki are described as the brothers of the god Nergal and are depicted as antagonistic towards humanity.\n\nA badly damaged text from the Neo-Assyrian Period (911 — 612 BC) describes Marduk leading his army of Anunnaki into the sacred city of Nippur and causing a disturbance. The disturbance causes a flood, which forces the resident gods of Nippur to take shelter in the Eshumesha temple to Ninurta. Enlil is enraged at Marduk's transgression and orders the gods of Eshumesha to take Marduk and the other Anunnaki as prisoners. The Anunnaki are captured, but Marduk appoints his front-runner Mushteshirhablim to lead a revolt against the gods of Eshumesha and sends his messenger Neretagmil to alert Nabu, the god of literacy. When the Eshumesha gods hear Nabu speak, they come out of their temple to search for him. Marduk defeats the Eshumesha gods and takes 360 of them as prisoners of war, including Enlil himself. Enlil protests that the Eshumesha gods are innocent, so Marduk puts them on trial before the Anunnaki. The text ends with a warning from Damkianna (another name for Ninhursag) to the gods and to humanity, pleading them not to repeat the war between the Anunnaki and the gods of Eshumesha.\n\nIn the mythologies of the Hurrians and Hittites (which flourished in the mid to late second millennium BC), the oldest generation of gods was believed to have been banished by the younger gods to the Underworld, where they were ruled by the goddess Lelwani. Hittite scribes identified these deities with the Anunnaki. In ancient Hurrian, the Anunnaki are referred to as \"karuileš šiuneš\", which means \"former ancient gods\", or \"kattereš šiuneš\", which means \"gods of the earth\". Hittite and Hurrian treaties were often sworn by the old gods in order to ensure that the oaths would be kept. In one myth, the gods are threatened by the stone giant Ullikummi, so Ea (the later name for Enki) commands the Former Gods to find the weapon that was used to separate the heavens from the earth. They find it and use it to cut off Ullikummi's feet.\n\nAlthough the names of the Anunnaki in Hurrian and Hittite texts frequently vary, they are always eight in number. In one Hittite ritual, the names of the old gods are listed as: \"Aduntarri the diviner, Zulki the dream interpress, Irpitia Lord of the Earth, Narā, Namšarā, Minki, Amunki, and Āpi.\" The old gods had no identifiable cult in the Hurrio-Hittite religion; instead, the Hurrians and Hittites sought to communicate with the old gods through the ritual sacrifice of a piglet in a pit dug in the ground. The old gods were often invoked to perform ritual purifications.\n\nThe Hittite account of the old gods' banishment to the Underworld ultimately became the source for the Greek poet Hesiod's narrative of the overthrow of the Titans by the Olympians in his \"Theogony\". The Greek sky-god Ouranos (whose name means \"Heaven\") is the father of the Titans and is derived from the Hittite version of Anu. In Hesiod's account, Ouranos is castrated by his son Kronos, just as Anu was castrated by his son Kumarbi in the Hittite story.\n\nIn his 1976 book \"The Twelfth Planet\", Russian-American author Zecharia Sitchin claimed that the Anunnaki were actually a race of extraterrestrial beings from the undiscovered planet Nibiru, who came to Earth around 500,000 years ago in order to mine gold. According to Sitchin, the Anunnaki genetically engineered \"homo erectus\" to create modern humans to work as their slaves. Sitchin claimed that the Anunnaki were forced to leave Earth when Antarctic glaciers melted, causing the Flood of Noah, which also destroyed the Anunnaki's bases on Earth. These had to be rebuilt and the Nephilim, needing more humans to help in this massive effort, taught them agriculture. Ronald H. Fritze writes that, according to Sitchin, \"the Annunaki built the pyramids and all the other monumental structures from around the world that ancient astronaut theorists consider so impossible to build without highly advanced technologies.\" Sitchin also claimed that the Anunnaki had left behind human-alien hybrids, some of whom may still be alive today, unaware of their alien ancestry. Sitchin expanded on this mythology in later works, including \"The Stairway to Heaven\" (1980) and \"The Wars of Gods and Men\" (1985). In \"The End of Days: Armageddon and the Prophecy of the Return\" (2007), Sitchin predicted that the Anunnaki would return to earth, possibly as soon as 2012, corresponding to the end of the Mesoamerican Long Count calendar.\n\nSitchin's writings have been universally rejected by mainstream historians, who have labelled his books as pseudohistory, pointing out that Sitchin seemingly deliberately misrepresents Sumerian texts by quoting them out of context, truncating quotations, and mistranslating Sumerian words to give them radically different meanings from their accepted definitions. Nonetheless, because Sitchin worked in the shadow of Erich von Däniken's more widely publicized \"Chariots of the Gods?\", he managed to escape the notice of debunkers, allowing his theories to become more influential. Although Sitchin himself described the Anunnaki as humanoids, in a book published in 1994, the conspiracy theorist Arthur Horn proposed that they were actually reptilians. British conspiracy theorist David Icke further expanded on this thesis by claiming that the surviving alien bloodlines mentioned by Sitchin were the \"Brotherhood of Babylon\", a race of shape-shifting, reptilian aliens who secretly control all the governments of the world and keep humans enslaved, using the Illuminati as one of their figurative chess pieces.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53730081", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53730081", "title": "Asia Council", "text": "Asia Council\n\nThe Asia Council is a pan-Asian organization constituted in 2016 to serve as a continent wide forum to address Asia’s key challenges and foster cooperation among countries of Asia. The council has its headquarters in Tokyo and regional directorates in Doha, Chengdu and Bangkok. \n\nThe Asia Council operates through the council headquarters in Tokyo, three regional directorates and country offices. \n\nThe Asia Council is organized into three administrative divisions. The East Asia division has its regional directorate in Tokyo, the South Asia & South East Asia division has its regional directorate in Bangkok and the West Asia & Central Asia division has its regional directorate in Doha. \n\nThe Asia Council covers 48 countries and 6 dependent territories. \n\nThe Asia Council has seven forums. Each forum is mandated to deliberate on a defined area relating Asia. The forum is attended by decision makers and experts. \n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe Asia Council fellowship provides financial grant to students from Asian countries to study for a graduate degree in world’s top universities.\n\nThe Asia Council Global Leaders Fellowship is an international graduate fellowship scheme which supports students with exceptional leadership qualities from 48 countries and 6 dependent territories of Asia to undertake graduate studies at some of world’s top universities in United States and United Kingdom. \n\nThe Asia Fellowship is an international graduate fellowship scheme which supports students with exceptional leadership qualities from 48 countries and 6 dependent territories of Asia to undertake graduate studies at Asia’s top universities. \n\nThe Asia Council Einstein Fellowship is an international fellowship scheme which supports students with exceptional leadership qualities from 48 countries and 6 dependent territories of Asia to undertake study for a degree at Tokyo Institute of Technology, Nanyang Technological University, KAIST, Hong Kong University of Science and Technology, and Tsinghua University. \n\nThe council’s research and publishing division produces several reports on Asia including the Asia Security Report and Asia Statistical Report. \n\nThe Asian Review is a journal published by the Asia Council. It covers political, economic and strategic review of the continent. \n\nThe Asia Roundtable is an international conference held by the Asia Council outside Asia. The meeting discusses in detail a single issue that is geopolitically significant for the Asian region. The conference is attended by regional leaders and policy experts. \n\nThe Asia Security Dialogue is a bi-annual meeting held by the Asia Council on most pressing security issues relating Asia.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "546839", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=546839", "title": "Atlantis Massif", "text": "Atlantis Massif\n\nThe Atlantis Massif is a prominent undersea massif in the North Atlantic Ocean. It is a dome-shaped region approximately across and rising about from the sea floor. It is located at approximately 30°8′N latitude 42°8′W longitude; just east of the intersection of the Mid-Atlantic Ridge with the Atlantis Transform Fault. The highest point of the massif is around beneath the surface.\n\nIt is believed that the massif was formed underneath the nearby Mid-Atlantic Ridge, but pulled from underneath the ridge during the movement of the plates, about 1.5 to 2 million years ago. Geologic studies of the massif have indicated that it is not composed of the black basalt typical of the ocean floor, but rather of dense green peridotite usually found in the mantle. The central dome is corrugated and striated in a way that is representative of an exposed ultramafic oceanic core complex.\n\nAn expedition to the area in 1996 made an important advance in the study of the ocean floor. It found that a steeply sloping detachment fault is associated with the oceanic core complex structure. The dome was caused by mantle material being extruded to the surface. Another expedition discovered the Lost City hydrothermal field near the summit of the ridge in 2000.\n\nAnother expedition in 2016, the IODP 357 expedition, targeted this massif, drilling cores.\n\n"}
{"id": "48900", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48900", "title": "Atomic radius", "text": "Atomic radius\n\nThe atomic radius of a chemical element is a measure of the size of its atoms, usually the mean or typical distance from the center of the nucleus to the boundary of the surrounding cloud of electrons. Since the boundary is not a well-defined physical entity, there are various non-equivalent definitions of atomic radius. Three widely used definitions of atomic radius are: Van der Waals radius, ionic radius, and covalent radius.\n\nDepending on the definition, the term may apply only to isolated atoms, or also to atoms in condensed matter, covalently bound in molecules, or in ionized and excited states; and its value may be obtained through experimental measurements, or computed from theoretical models. The value of the radius may depend on the atom's state and context.\n\nElectrons do not have definite orbits, or sharply defined ranges. Rather, their positions must be described as probability distributions that taper off gradually as one moves away from the nucleus, without a sharp cutoff. Moreover, in condensed matter and molecules, the electron clouds of the atoms usually overlap to some extent, and some of the electrons may roam over a large region encompassing two or more atoms.\n\nUnder most definitions the radii of isolated neutral atoms range between 30 and 300 pm (trillionths of a meter), or between 0.3 and 3 ångströms. Therefore, the radius of an atom is more than 10,000 times the radius of its nucleus (1–10 fm), and less than 1/1000 of the wavelength of visible light (400–700 nm).\nFor many purposes, atoms can be modeled as spheres. This is only a crude approximation, but it can provide quantitative explanations and predictions for many phenomena, such as the density of liquids and solids, the diffusion of fluids through molecular sieves, the arrangement of atoms and ions in crystals, and the size and shape of molecules.\n\nAtomic radii vary in a predictable and explicable manner across the periodic table. For instance, the radii generally decrease along each period (row) of the table, from the alkali metals to the noble gases; and increase down each group (column). The radius increases sharply between the noble gas at the end of each period and the alkali metal at the beginning of the next period. These trends of the atomic radii (and of various other chemical and physical properties of the elements) can be explained by the electron shell theory of the atom; they provided important evidence for the development and confirmation of quantum theory. The atomic radii decrease across the Periodic Table because as the atomic number increases, the number of protons increases across the period, but the extra electrons are only added to the same quantum shell. Therefore, the effective nuclear charge towards the outermost electrons increases, drawing the outermost electrons closer. As a result, the electron cloud contracts and the atomic radius decreases.\n\nIn 1920, shortly after it had become possible to determine the sizes of atoms using X-ray crystallography, it was suggested that all atoms of the same element have the same radii. However, in 1923, when more crystal data had become available, it was found that the approximation of an atom as a sphere does not necessarily hold when comparing the same atom in different crystal structures.\n\nWidely used definitions of atomic radius include:\n\n\nThe following table shows empirically measured covalent radii for the elements, as published by J. C. Slater in 1964. The values are in picometers (pm or 1×10 m), with an accuracy of about 5 pm. The shade of the box ranges from red to yellow as the radius increases; gray indicates lack of data.\n\nThe way the atomic radius varies with increasing atomic number can be explained by the arrangement of electrons in shells of fixed capacity. The shells are generally filled in order of increasing radius, since the negatively charged electrons are attracted by the positively charged protons in the nucleus. As the atomic number increases along each row of the periodic table, the additional electrons go into the same outermost shell; whose radius gradually contracts, due to the increasing nuclear charge. In a noble gas, the outermost shell is completely filled; therefore, the additional electron of next alkali metal will go into the next outer shell, accounting for the sudden increase in the atomic radius.\n\nThe increasing nuclear charge is partly counterbalanced by the increasing number of electrons, a phenomenon that is known as shielding; which explains why the size of atoms usually increases down each column. However, there is one notable exception, known as the lanthanide contraction: the 5d block of elements are much smaller than one would expect, due to the shielding caused by the 4f electrons.\n\nEssentially, atomic radius decreases across the periods due to an increasing number of protons. Therefore, there is a greater attraction between the protons and electrons because opposite charges attract, and more protons creates a stronger charge. The greater attraction draws the electrons closer to the protons, decreasing the size of the particle. Therefore, atomic radius decreases. Down the groups, atomic radius increases. This is because there are more energy levels and therefore a greater distance between protons and electrons. In addition, electron shielding causes attraction to decrease, so remaining electrons can go farther away from the positively charged nucleus. Therefore, size (atomic radius) increases.\n\nThe following table summarizes the main phenomena that influence the atomic radius of an element:\n\nThe electrons in the 4f-subshell, which is progressively filled from cerium (\"Z\" = 58) to lutetium (\"Z\" = 71), are not particularly effective at shielding the increasing nuclear charge from the sub-shells further out. The elements immediately following the lanthanides have atomic radii which are smaller than would be expected and which are almost identical to the atomic radii of the elements immediately above them. Hence hafnium has virtually the same atomic radius (and chemistry) as zirconium, and tantalum has an atomic radius similar to niobium, and so forth. The effect of the lanthanide contraction is noticeable up to platinum (\"Z\" = 78), after which it is masked by a relativistic effect known as the inert pair effect.\n\nDue to lanthanide contraction, the 5 following observations can be drawn:\n\n\nThe d-block contraction is less pronounced than the lanthanide contraction but arises from a similar cause. In this case, it is the poor shielding capacity of the 3d-electrons which affects the atomic radii and chemistries of the elements immediately following the first row of the transition metals, from gallium (\"Z\" = 31) to bromine (\"Z\" = 35).\n\nThe following table shows atomic radii computed from theoretical models, as published by Enrico Clementi and others in 1967. The values are in picometres (pm).\n\n"}
{"id": "1615233", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1615233", "title": "Bell Island (Newfoundland and Labrador)", "text": "Bell Island (Newfoundland and Labrador)\n\nBell Island is an island located off the Avalon Peninsula of Newfoundland and Labrador, Canada in Conception Bay. Measuring in length and in width, it has an area of . The subsurface is composed of Ordovician sandstone and shale with red hematite. It was once the site of large iron ore mines.\n\nIt is home to three communities, the largest of which is the incorporated town of Wabana. The provincial government operates a ferry service from Portugal Cove to Bell Island daily using either the or the . It is primarily used by commuters who work in the St. John's metropolitan area.\n\nProbably settled by Maritime Archaic and/or Dorset people, Bell Island, as with the rest of the island of Newfoundland, was probably inhabited by the Beothuk Nation at the time of European discovery.\n\nThe first European inhabitants settled during the 18th century and attempted to farm and fish, with the island having a subsistence economy throughout much of the 19th century. The first recorded settler was an Englishman, Gregory Normore, in 1740.\n\nThe economy expanded tremendously during the 1890s when iron ore mining began near the community of Wabana.\n\nWabana grew to become the island's largest community and the mine became one of the largest producers of iron ore in northeastern North America. The mine's workings extended beneath the seabed of Conception Bay, creating one of the most extensive submarine iron mines in the world.\n\nMost of Bell Island's ore was shipped from loading facilities to Sydney, Nova Scotia where it was smelted in a steel mill. The steel mill at Sydney and the iron mine at Bell Island were owned by the Dominion Steel and Coal Company (DOSCO), which at one point was one of the largest private employers in Canada.\n\nTwo QF 4.7-inch B Mark IV* guns were emplaced on Bell Island early in World War II. They can still be seen on their mountings.\n\nDuring the Second World War, the anchorage for bulk carriers shipping iron ore was attacked by German U-boats in two attacks on 5 September and 2 November 1942, by \"U-513\" and \"U-518\". Four ships were sunk and 70 merchant mariners lost their lives:\n\nIn addition to the four cargo ships, an errant German torpedo also struck the DOSCO iron ore loading dock on shore. A memorial overlooks the waters at Lance Cove where the wrecks lie just a few hundred yards offshore. Bell Island was one of the very few locations in North America to see enemy action during the war, and the only location in North America to be subject to direct attack by German forces during World War II (due to the errant torpedo hitting land).\n\nBeing an underground operation, the Bell Island iron ore mine was extremely expensive to operate. During the 1950s, some of the largest surface iron ore deposits in the world were discovered in northeastern Quebec and the western part of Labrador. After the Quebec North Shore and Labrador Railway was built in the latter part of the decade, Bell Island iron ore became uncompetitive.\n\nDuring the early 1960s, the steel and coal industries on Cape Breton Island began to falter in the face of foreign competition. In 1966 the steel mill in Sydney and nearby coal mines were slated to be closed. At the same time, iron ore mining at Wabana stopped.\n\nBell Island's resource-based economy was hard-hit by the shutdown, resulting in a large out-migration of residents. Some moved to the nearby growing metropolitan centre of St. John's. In recent decades a reverse move has occurred where housing is being built on Bell Island to accommodate residents who wish to commute by ferry (20 minutes each direction) to Portugal Cove and travel to work in the city.\n\nThe scenic and sheltered waters of Conception Bay are also seeing an increase in pleasure boating activity as the suburban communities grow around nearby Conception Bay South.\n\nIn September 2015, concerns were expressed over the possible collapse of the abandoned tunnels that formed part of the Bell Island mine. A retired miner, Peter Young, told CBC Radio's \"On The Go\" that tunnels under the abandoned mines, going down as far as two kilometres, hold the potential for a large-scale disaster. He felt that a collapse would initiate a local earthquake giving rise to the secondary effect of the water level in Conception Bay around the mine dropping which in turn could force a tsunami from the surrounding ocean.\n\nOn April 2, 1978, there was a loud explosion on Bell Island which caused damage to some houses and the electrical house wiring in the surrounding area. Two cup-shaped holes about two feet deep and three feet wide marked the major impact. A number of TV sets in Lance Cove, the surrounding community, exploded at the time of the blast. It was initially thought to be caused by ball lightning. Meteorologists confirmed that atmospheric conditions at the time were not conducive to lightning. The boom was heard 55 kilometers away in Cape Broyle. The impact occurred in the Bickfordville area, on the southwestern side of the island.\n\nThe incident was investigated by John Warren and Robert Freyman from Los Alamos Scientific Laboratory, in New Mexico. It has been speculated that, due to the two men's place of work, they were investigating a secret weapons test and were military attachés. However, reacting to data received from the Vela satellites, they were in fact investigating a \"superbolt\" – an unusually large bolt of lightning, lasting an unusually long time: about a thousandth of a second.\n\nA documentary that aired on the History Channel about electromagnetic pulse weapons investigated the speculation that the incident may have been a result of top secret experiments. It was postulated that either the Soviet or the U.S. governments were the cause of the 'attack' and that it involved high energy beams focused into the ionosphere that were attracted by the iron in abandoned mines. In the \"Skeptoid\" podcast \"The Bell Island Boom\", presenter Brian Dunning dismissed that theory, stating, \"Although iron is magnetic and can be magnetized, natural iron ore has its molecules jumbled in every direction and rarely happens to have a significant magnetic field, certainly not strong enough to divert or attract a particle beam.\" Although some have pointed out that the natural oolitic iron ore on Bell Island is magnetic due to its hematite content, such ore does not \"generate\" a magnetic field, for the reasons Dunning discussed.\n\nSteve Lewis, an experienced cave diver, wreck diver and member of The Explorers Club, led a team that photographed and assessed the Bell Island mine for \"condition, safety and feasibility\" of future research in 2006. On February 4, 2007, expedition member Joseph T. Steffen died of an air embolism during a dive into the mine. The project continued despite the loss of this explorer and team members managed to lay approximately two kilometers of line and document many of the mine's artifacts. Their report also provided the Bell Island Heritage Society with important information on artifacts left when mining operations ended in 1966.\n\nOn November 5, 2012, Radio Bell Island Inc. received approval by the Canadian Radio-television and Telecommunications Commission to operate a new low power community FM radio station in Bell Island.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53072696", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53072696", "title": "Climate Mirror", "text": "Climate Mirror\n\nClimate Mirror is \"an open project to mirror public climate datasets\", that is, an open access project to mirror (to back up) the data of publicly owned datasets from climate science, such as data from U.S. federally funded research. Datasets from the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), and NASA are considered primary examples.\n\nThe idea behind Climate Mirror is comparable to the notion that lots of copies keep stuff safe from disappearing through censorship, link rot, lapses of professionalism in preserving the integrity of the scientific record, or lack of digital permanence. It offers a parallel type of massive backup.\n"}
{"id": "2116960", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2116960", "title": "Construction, Forestry, Maritime, Mining and Energy Union", "text": "Construction, Forestry, Maritime, Mining and Energy Union\n\nThe Construction, Forestry, Maritime, Mining and Energy Union (CFMMEU) is Australia's main trade union in construction, forestry, maritime, mining, energy, textile, clothing and footwear production. The CFMMEU is affiliated with the Australian Council of Trade Unions, with the Australian Labor Party and with the World Federation of Trade Unions.\n\nThe CFMMEU has offices in all capital cities in Australia and in many major regional centres with the national office of the union being in Melbourne. The union has an estimated 120,000 members and employs around 400 full-time staff and officials.\n\nIn March 2018, a two-year long process ended resulting in a merger between the old CFMEU, the Maritime Union of Australia and the Textile, Clothing and Footwear Union of Australia. The new union is the second biggest union by membership in Australia.\n\nThe CFMMEU is structured into different divisions – Construction and General Division, Mining and Energy Division, Manufacturing Division and Maritime Union of Australia Division. Each division operates largely autonomously.\n\nThe Construction and General Division was formed in the early 1990s with the creation of the national CFMEU. The creation of a single building union had been a policy objective of various building unions for decades with records showing the Queensland Branch of the Operative Painters and Decorators Union (OPDU) carried resolutions calling for a single industry union to be created as early as the 1920s. The rationale behind this policy position was the logical view that members would be better represented by a larger industry-based union rather than the traditional craft unions.\n\nThe largest amalgamating union, the Building Workers' Industrial Union (BWIU) was itself the result of numerous amalgamations over several decades between 1946 and 1992. The coverage of the BWIU included numerous craft unions representing building tradespeople including bricklayers, carpenters, plasterers, tilers, stonemasons and various skilled non-trades construction workers. In the late 1980s the BWIU increased its coverage to include other construction workers such as steel fixers, concreters, construction labourers and trades assistants following the deregistration of the Builders Labourers Federation (BLF).\n\nThe division also has members working off-site in manufacturing workplaces such as shopfitting workshops, joinery shops and other establishments involved in the pre-fabrication of materials used in the construction process. Members also work in brick, tile and pottery manufacturing and in Queensland, the union covers furnishing trades as there is no formal Forestry Division in the State, due to the Australian Workers' Union's historical coverage of this industry. The Queensland Branch does, however have a presence in Queensland's forestry sector with CFMEU members employed by the State Government working for the Department of Primary Industries.\n\nWith the absorption of the Federated Engine Drivers and Firemens Association of Australasia (FEDFA) which had coverage of crane drivers, plant operators, and other construction workers, the Construction and General Division has moved closer to fulfilling the policy objective of creating a single industry union for construction workers.\n\nThe Construction Division is often associated with the left faction of the Australian labour movement, but during the 2010 Federal election the CFMEU and AMWU donated a total of $60,000 to the Greens.\n\nEach State division operates with autonomy, which results in differing services being offered to members.\n\nThe NSW Branch of the CFMEU General and Construction Division has an estimated 5,000 members and the Victorian Branch around 9,500.\n\nIn August 2010, the CFMEU donated over $1.2 million to political activist group GetUp! to pay for TV airtime for a women's rights ad-spot condemning Tony Abbott and the Liberal Party.\n\nIn the 2013 Election the CFMEU donated $50,000 to the Greens party in the ACT.\n\nThe CFMMEU Forestry and Furnishing Products Division was first registered as a Federal Organisation 21 August 1907, as the Federated Sawmill, Timber-yard and Woodworkers Employees Association of Australasia.\n\nThe Union's name was changed in 1913 to the Amalgamated Timber Workers Union of Australia, and again in 1918 to the Australian Timber Workers Union.\n\nIn late 1990 a ballot was conducted by members of the Australian Timber Workers Union and the Pulp and Paper Workers Federation of Australia endorsing the amalgamation of both Unions to form the Australian Timber and Allied Industries Union.\n\nAnother ballot was conducted in mid-1991 on the amalgamation between the Australian Timber and Allied Industries Union and the Building Workers Industrial Union. This endorsement supported the first stage in the development of what is now the Construction, Forestry, Mining and Energy Union. The Forest and Furnishing Products Division represents 20,000 members nationally.\n\nThe Mining and Energy Division consists of a number of unions which have amalgamated. The largest union to contribute to the formation of the division was the Australian Coal and Shale Employees' Federation (ACSEF) (often known as the Miners Federation) which had a continuous history dating back to 1915. Predecessors to the ACSEF had existed on and off since the 1850s.\n\nIndustries covered by the Mining and Energy Division include the coal industry, coal ports, the metalliferous mining industry, electric power generation, oil and gas and the small coke industry.\n\n\nThe Maritime Union of Australia Division consists of the amalgamated Maritime Union of Australia. As of 2017, the division represents 16,000 workers associated with Australian ports.\n\nIn the 2018 Victorian Election, the Maritime Union of Australia Division donated an unknown amount to the Victorian Socialists campaign.\n\nIn 2001, the Howard Government set up the Royal Commission into the Building and Construction Industry (commonly known as the \"Cole Royal Commission\"). The Commission and its findings were largely condemned by the Labor Party and the Greens which argued that the terms of reference were too narrow. The CFMEU asserted that the purpose of the Commission was a \"witch-hunt\" to reduce the power of the CFMEU rather than to investigate crime. The General and Construction Division of the union stopped some corruption within the union. Justice Cole found 392 cases of unlawful conduct; 98 cases were passed on to prosecution authorities by the Commonwealth Attorney-General, of which 26 were considered breaches of criminal law.\n\nAs a result of the Commission's findings the Howard Government established the Australian Building and Construction Commission (ABCC) in 2005. It had a wide range of powers, including compelling testimony under oath, with penalties of up to $22,000 for individuals and $110,000 for corporations and unions apply for breaches of the \"Building and Construction Industry Improvement Act 2005\". The ABCC was abolished in 2012 by the Gillard Government and was replaced by the Fair Work Building and Construction. In December 2016, after two failed attempts to reintroduce the ABCC which included the trigger for the double dissolution 2016 federal election, the Turnbull Government was successful in reinstating the Australian Building and Construction Commission with key support from Senators Pauline Hanson's One Nation, Nick Xenophon Team and Derryn Hinch.\n\nIn 2015 a proposal to reinstate the ABCC was submitted by the Abbott Government, but failed to pass the two houses of Parliament. A further attempt to pass the legislation was submitted by the Turnbull Government in March 2016, and was a double dissolution trigger for the 2016 federal election.\n\nUnder WorkChoices, situations where industrial action could take place were reduced. The CFMEU and workers had to prove a workplace was unsafe to put a stop to work on a site which has not happened to date.\n\nDuring 2011 and 2012, BHP Coal and its employees were negotiating about a new enterprise agreement to apply to BHP Coal's operations at various mines, including the Saraji mine. For the purpose of supporting or advancing their claims, employees of BHP Coal took protected industrial action in the form of work stoppages and overtime bans. There was a seven-day work stoppage between 15 and 22 February 2012. During this stoppage, members of the CFMEU who were employed at the Saraji mine, including Mr Doevendans, participated in protests beside the road leading into the mine property. Standing behind barriers BHP Coal had erected at the side of the road, the protesters held up signs which the CFMEU had provided and waved the signs at those who were driving into the mine. The signs were directly or indirectly critical of BHP Coal and of those who were driving into the mine. On four occasions over three days, Mr Doevendans held up a sign that read: \"No principles Scabs No guts.\" Some employees of BHP Coal complained to management about the scabs sign. Following some interactions with management, Mr Doevendans' employment with BHP was terminated.\n\nOn appeal to the High Court of Australia, it was held that the dismissal of Mr Doevendans was permissible under the \"Fair Work Act 2009\".\n\nThe federal division of the Federated Saw Mill, Timber Yard and General Wood Workers Employees' Association changed its name to the Amalgamated Timber Workers' Union of Australia. The former union had been registered federally in 1907 and had registered branches in Victoria, Adelaide, New South Wales, Western Australia and Tasmania. Although the organisation was deregistered in 1918 its members formed a new union, the Australian Timber Workers' Union, the same year. The new union extended coverage to workers in box and case factories, saw makers' shops, joiners' workshops, carpenters, implement workers and wood-working machinists. In 1940 the union filed an application and succeeded in extending its coverage to most workers employed in the timber and wood industry including cabinet makers and furniture factories. In 1991 it amalgamated with the Pulp & Paper Workers' Federation of Australia to form the Australian Timber & Allied Industries Union. Later in the year amalgamation with the Building Workers' Industrial Union of Australia created the ATAIU & BWIU Amalgamated Union. Further amalgamations eventually saw this organisation become part of the Construction Forestry Mining & Energy Union in 1993.\n\nSince late 2015, the Maritime Union of Australia and CFMEU have been in merger talks to create 'Australia's most powerful union'.\n\nOn 29 February 2016 at the MUA national conference, delegates voted unanimously in favour of negotiations for a merger with the CFMEU by 2017.\n\nThe merger was approved by the Fair Work Commission in March 2018.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19067895", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19067895", "title": "Conventional pollutant", "text": "Conventional pollutant\n\nA conventional pollutant is a term used in the USA to describe a water pollutant that is amenable to treatment by a municipal sewage treatment plant. A basic list of conventional pollutants is defined in the U.S. Clean Water Act. The list has been amended in regulations issued by the Environmental Protection Agency:\n\nThe \"Secondary Treatment Regulation\" contains national discharge standards for BOD, pH and TSS, applicable to sewage treatment plants in the U.S.\n\n"}
{"id": "949087", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=949087", "title": "Dip circle", "text": "Dip circle\n\nDip circles (also \"dip needles\") are used to measure the angle between the horizon and the Earth's magnetic field (the dip angle). They were used in surveying, mining and prospecting as well as for the demonstration and study of magnetism.\n\nGeorg Hartmann first discovered dip angle in 1544, when he noticed the needle on a compass dipped towards the north hemisphere. Rather than explore this phenomenon, Hartmann sought ways to eliminate it. However, Robert Norman around 1576 investigated dip angle further and in 1581 described in print a device to measure this phenomenon.\n\nEarly dip circles were not accurate and gave poor results. Over the next 300 years many improvements were made, including reducing the friction between the needle and its pivot and encasing the circle in glass. Between the late 18th century and late 19th century the design approached its peak. Improvements which made the dip circle a practical aid for polar navigation were made by Robert Were Fox FRS, who developed in the 1830s the first dip circle that could be used on board a moving ship. Another important improvement to the instrument was developed in the 1830s by the Dublin Physicist Humphrey Lloyd, who devised a way of attaching a magnetic needle at right-angles to the dip needle in order to measure the intensity of force (by seeing the extent to which the right-angle needle deflected the dip-needle).\n\nBy World War I the most advanced dip circles were being made. With the development of electronic systems dip circles became obsolete.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15559579", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15559579", "title": "EGM Green", "text": "EGM Green\n\nEGM Green LLC. is an American private corporation, specializing in Design and Manufacture of eco-friendly casino gaming products.\n\nThe company was founded in Toms River, New Jersey in March 2007. The Company was an offshoot of Executive Gaming Monthly, a seller of home casino products. EGM Green was founded by Eric Hansel, Green columnist for Casino Journal, out of a desire to bring sustainable, environmental, design elements to casinos.\n\nEGM Green is the first company to develop and design casino tables, gaming seating and luxury lounge furniture that is completely green. It is a green consulting, design, and manufacturing firm intended to meet the needs of the hotel and casino market. EGM Green is a venture of Executive Gaming Monthly to bring 100% Eco-friendly gaming products to casino and luxury markets, and will allow operators using them to earn points toward LEED certification. These products include poker tables, blackjack tables, roulette tables, mini-baccarat, baccarat and more that are all made out of Eco-friendly materials. Additionally, a variety of seating products are offered.\n\nEGM Green also makes luxury lounge furniture for any eco-friendly environment. All materials they use are Forest Stewardship Council-certified, recycled or reclaimed. EGM Green has customized casinos, hotels, spas and other resort area with environmentally friendly furniture. The furniture can be designed and manufactured according to a property’s specifications. EGM can also assist in developing an individual plan for each environment, detailing a custom plan and providing a budget for the customer's needs. EGM Green works with Josh Dorfman, Sirius Radio’s “Lazy Environmentalist”, to help casinos live up to their corporate social responsibility initiatives.\n\n"}
{"id": "25833466", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25833466", "title": "Edward Brinton", "text": "Edward Brinton\n\nEdward Brinton (January 12, 1924 – January 13, 2010) was a professor of oceanography and research biologist. His particular area of expertise was Euphausiids or Krill, small shrimp-like creatures found in all the oceans of the world.\nBrinton was born on January 12, 1924, in Richmond, Indiana to a Quaker couple, Howard Brinton and Anna Shipley Cox Brinton. Much of his childhood was spent on the grounds of Mills College where his mother was Dean of Faculty and his father was a professor. The family later moved to the Pendle Hill Quaker Center for Study and Contemplation, in Pennsylvania where his father and mother became directors.\n\nBrinton attended High School at Westtown School in Chester County, Pennsylvania. He studied at Haverford College and graduated in 1949 with a bachelor's degree in biology. He enrolled at Scripps Institution of Oceanography as a graduate student in 1950 and was awarded a Ph.D. in 1957. He continued on as a research biologist in the Marine Life Research Group, part of the CalCOFI program. He soon turned his dissertation into a major publication, The Distribution of Pacific Euphausiids. In this large monograph, he laid out the major biogeographic provinces of the Pacific (and part of the Atlantic), large-scale patterns of pelagic diversity and one of the most rational hypotheses for the mechanism of sympatric, oceanic speciation. In all of these studies the role of physical oceanography and circulation played a prominent part. His work has since been validated by others and continues, to this day, to form the basis for our attempts to understand large-scale pelagic ecology and the role of physics of the movement of water in the regulation of pelagic ecosystems. In addition to these studies he has led in the studies of how climatic variations have led to the large variations in the California Current, and its populations and communities. He has described several new species and, in collaboration with Margaret Knight, worked out the complicated life histories of many Euphausiid species. He received a formal tribute from the international GLOBEC program in 2009. He served as a major adviser and scientist for the State Department-sponsored Naga expeditions in the Gulf of Thailand and, later, as the curator of the UNESCO-sponsored Indian Ocean Biological Center in Cochin, India. He taught numerous students in both venues. His Academic career continued at Scripps until his retirement in the 1991.\n\nBrinton met and married Desiree Ward in 1948. He had four children and was widowed in 1976. He remained unmarried until the time of his death. His primary residence was in La Jolla, California. He and his family lived in Bangkok, Thailand for a year in 1960, and in Kerala, India from 1965-1967. He died after a long illness on January 13, 2010.\n\nBrinton, Edward. The distribution of Pacific Euphausiids. Bulletin of the Scripps Institution of Oceanography, vol 8, number 2,1962.\n\nBrinton, Edward. Variable Factors affecting the Apparent Range and Estimated Concentration of Euphausiids in the North Pacific. Pacific Science 16, no. 4\n(October 1962): 374-408.\n\nBrinton, Edward: Euphausiids of Southeast Asian waters. Naga Report volume 4, part 5. La Jolla: University of California, Scripps Institution of Oceanography, 1975.\n\nBrinton Edward: The oceanographic structure of the eastern Scotia Sea—III. Distributions of euphausiid species and their developmental stages in 1981 in relation to hydrography. Deep-Sea Research 1985;32:1153–1180.\n\n"}
{"id": "7708669", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7708669", "title": "Energy Cities", "text": "Energy Cities\n\nEnergy Cities is the European Association of local authorities in energy transition. It represents 1000 towns and cities in 30 countries. From 2017 to 2020, Energy Cities is under the Presidency of the City of Heidelberg (DE). Energy Cities was established as an association of European local authorities in 1990 to put all this into practice. The association premises are located in Brussels (BE) and Besançon (FR). A part of the team works in Budapest (HU), Offenburg (DE), Freiburg-im-Breisgau (DE) and Zürich (CH).\n\nThe Board of Directors of the association is represented by the 11 European cities:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7150649", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7150649", "title": "Environmental issues in Azerbaijan", "text": "Environmental issues in Azerbaijan\n\nLike most (previous) republics of the Soviet Union which experienced rapid development of all spheres of economics and human activity which has led to an increasingly negative impact on the environment, including the inefficient usage of natural resources. As can be seen in many other countries, Azerbaijan is interested in finding solutions to the problems regarding environmental protection and rational utilization of natural resources. In support of Azerbaijan's environmental protection goals, a number of important laws, legal documents and state programs, all of which conform to European law requirements, have been developed and approved in order to improve the ecological situation in the country. However, problems arose as these precautionary laws have not been as effective as they were meant to be.  Transparency has been a consistent issue in Azerbaijan as NGO's who are given legal authority to collect data from the oil refineries are often blocked or dismissed, and their information comes unofficially. Domestic oil producers have often skimped out on the regulations, disregarding the oil leaks that plague the Caspian Sea. In the next 30 years, Azerbaijan will produce more oil than it produced during the last century.  This means that there is little coordination and precaution with the excessive drilling for oil. Part of this is the lack of communication with its neighbors in the Caspian Sea.\n\nThe most severe pollutions are the following: dumped petroleum during the Soviet Period, discharge of sewage, depleted stocks of sturgeon, severe air pollution, and heavy use of pesticides and fertilizers. Many of the locals are constantly exposed to the contaminants, and they have accepted to live in it. Some even comment on the beauty of the ocean with the layer of oil that glisten on the top. Unfortunately, the smell and the ramifications of constant exposure to harmful vapors are a concern to the local health, particularly the coastline of Azerbaijan.  The ramifications of petro-fueled industries are the following health concerns: harms to the pulmonary, digestive, circulatory, and immune systems. In the worst cases, genetic mutations can occur. Groundwater is also affected by the oil spills causing cancers and bacterial diseases like cholera and hepatitis. \n\nThe following are the principal ecological problems of Azerbaijan:\n\nThe government has focused on these issues and the judicial system has provided laws to safeguard local health. Foreign oil producers and refineries have been more consistent with these regulations, while not all the time, more so than the domestic oil companies. British Petroleum is one such company that attempts to clean the floors of the ocean by separating the contaminants with the rest of the natural setting. Still, locals are without much strength as the people cannot depend on the judicial system to be actionable as the country is still shedding its war-torn past.\n\nList of environmental issues\n"}
{"id": "3968707", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3968707", "title": "Exner equation", "text": "Exner equation\n\nThe Exner equation is a statement of conservation of mass that applies to sediment in a fluvial system such as a river. It was developed by the Austrian meteorologist and sedimentologist Felix Maria Exner, from whom it derives its name.\n\nThe Exner equation describes conservation of mass between sediment in the bed of a channel and sediment that is being transported. It states that bed elevation increases (the bed aggrades) proportionally to the amount of sediment that drops out of transport, and conversely decreases (the bed degrades) proportionally to the amount of sediment that becomes entrained by the flow.\n\nThe equation states that the change in bed elevation, formula_1, over time, formula_2, is equal to one over the grain packing density, formula_3, times the negative divergence of sediment flux, formula_4.\n\nNote that formula_3 can also be expressed as formula_7, where formula_8 equals the bed porosity.\n\nGood values of formula_3 for natural systems range from 0.45 to 0.75. A typical good value for spherical grains is 0.64, as given by random close packing. An upper bound for close-packed spherical grains is 0.74048. (See sphere packing for more details); this degree of packing is extremely improbable in natural systems, making random close packing the more realistic upper bound on grain packing density.\n\nOften, for reasons of computational convenience and/or lack of data, the Exner equation is used in its one-dimensional form. This is generally done with respect to the down-stream direction formula_10, as one is typically interested in the down-stream distribution of erosion and deposition though a river reach.\n\nAn additional form of the Exner equation adds a subsidence term, formula_12, to the mass-balance. This allows the absolute elevation of the bed formula_1 to be tracked over time in a situation in which it is being changed by outside influences, such as tectonic or compression-related subsidence (isostatic compression or rebound). In the convention of the following equation, formula_12 is positive with an increase in elevation over time and is negative with a decrease in elevation over time.\n"}
{"id": "10460504", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10460504", "title": "Heather Angel (photographer)", "text": "Heather Angel (photographer)\n\nHeather Hazel Angel MSc (née Le Rougetel, born 1941) is a British nature photographer, author and television presenter.\n\nHer father was an RAF officer. Her mother is the garden-history author Hazel le Rougetel.\n\nShe attended 14 schools in England and New Zealand and then graduated in zoology from Bristol University, and, in 1964, married Martin Angel. She obtained her MSc in 1965.\n\nIn 1982/1983 she presented the Yorkshire Television produced, Channel 4-screened television series \"Making the Most of…\", which encouraged people to enjoy the British countryside. She wrote \"Heather Angel's Countryside\" to accompany the series.\n\nShe was commissioned to photograph Charles, Prince of Wales and was a guest of the Prime Minister at 10 Downing Street, both in 1985.\n\nShe holds an Honorary Doctorate of Science from the University of Bath (1986), and has been Visiting Professor in the Department of Life Science at the University of Nottingham (since 1994). She was President of the Royal Photographic Society from 1984–1986, and was the founder Chair of their Nature Group. The BioCommunications Association of USA made her their 1998 Louis Schmidt Laureate. She is a Fellow of the British Institute of Professional Photography and of the Royal Photographic Society; and a Vice-President of the Nature in Art Trust\n\nHer exhibition \"Natural Visions\" toured the UK from 2000–2004 and was also on show in Kuala Lumpur, Cairo and Beijing.\n\n\nAdditionally, her pictures are all or a significant proportion of those in:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "248753", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=248753", "title": "Hibonite", "text": "Hibonite\n\nHibonite ((Ca,Ce)(Al,Ti,Mg)O) is a mineral, occurring in various colours, with a hardness of 7.5–8.0 and a hexagonal crystal structure. It is rare, but is found in high-grade metamorphic rocks on Madagascar. Some presolar grains in primitive meteorites consist of hibonite. Hibonite also is a common mineral in the Ca-Al-rich inclusions (CAIs) found in some chondritic meteorites. Hibonite is closely related to hibonite-Fe (IMA 2009-027, ((Fe,Mg)AlO)) an alteration mineral from the Allende meteorite.\n\nA very rare gem, hibonite was discovered in 1953 in Madagascar by Paul Hibon, a French prospector.\n\nHibonite can vary in colour, from a bright blue, to green, to orange, to a nearly black deep brown. The colour is related to the degree of oxidation; meteoritic hibonite tends to be blue.\n\n"}
{"id": "44613827", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44613827", "title": "Intermediate band photovoltaics", "text": "Intermediate band photovoltaics\n\nIntermediate band photovoltaics in solar cell research provides methods for exceeding the Shockley–Queisser limit on the efficiency of a cell. It introduces an intermediate band (IB) energy level in between the valence and conduction bands. Theoretically, introducing an IB allows two photons with energy less than the bandgap to excite an electron from the valence band to the conduction band. This increases the induced photocurrent and thereby efficiency.\n\nLuque and Marti first derived a theoretical limit for an IB device with one midgap energy level using detailed balance. They assumed no carriers were collected at the IB and that the device was under full concentration. They found the maximum efficiency to be 63.2%, for a bandgap of 1.95eV with the IB 0.71eV from either the valence or conduction band.\nUnder one sun illumination the limiting efficiency is 47%.\n\nGreen and Brown expanded upon these results by deriving the theoretical efficiency limit for a device with infinite IBs. By introducing more IB’s, even more of the incident spectrum can be utilized.\nAfter performing the detailed balance, they found the maximum efficiency to be 77.2%.\nThis efficiency is less than that of a multijunction cell with infinite junctions. This is because in multijunction cells, electrons are captured exactly after being excited to a higher energy state, while in an IB device, the electrons still need another energy transition to reach the conduction band and be collected.\n\nIBs have theoretical potential to become high efficiency devices, but they are hard to make. Introducing an IB greatly increases non-radiative recombination mechanisms. Additionally, IBs need to be partially filled to allow for carrier movement to and from the IB. This often requires donor carriers. The three current methods of fabricating IB devices are described below.\n\nThe first method is to introduce small, homogenous QD structures into a single junction device. \nThis creates an IB, which can be tuned by changing the shape and size of the QDs. For an experimental device to show high efficiency potential, it must demonstrate that it can generate current from the absorption of sub-bandgap photons, while preserving the output voltage of the device. Using quantum dots, some experimental devices, such as InAs/GaAs, have been able to do this. InAs/GaAs devices have been able to produce efficiencies as high as 18.3%, although this is still lower than the comparable single junction device. Unfortunately, QD structures have several issues:\n\n\nTherefore, more research is needed to fabricate truly high efficient devices. Specifically, high-density QD structures with long carrier lifetimes need to be developed and new materials need to be found to eliminate the need to use donor carriers to fill the IB.\n\nAnother method of fabricating an IB device is to use highly mismatched alloys. The use of these mismatched alloys introduces an IB due to the band anti-crossing (BAC) mechanism. This is essentially the splitting of the valence or conduction band, depending on the alloy type, into two bands. These materials are typically made of III-V alloys, however they have also been fabricated with II-VI alloys.\nThe two most studied alloys are ZnTe doped with O and GaAs doped with N. Both of these devices have experimentally shown the absorption of sub-bandgap photons, however neither has been able to demonstrate voltage preservation. Despite this, ZnTeO devices have demonstrated a higher photocurrent and efficiency than a comparable single bandgap ZnTe device. \nUnfortunately, both structures exhibit efficiency less than 1%. Moving forward, more research is needed to find materials with natural partially filled IB bands.\n\nFinally, the last approach is to introduce deep level impurities (DLI) into a semiconductor bulk material. \nThis method is similar to highly mismatched alloys, however the doping percentages are much less. The biggest issue with these devices is that the non-radiative recombination, predominantly Shockley-Read-Hall, significantly increases.\nSignificant research in this field was aimed at achieving “lifetime recovery”, or the ability to increase carrier lifetime by introducing more DLIs. In particular, it was believed that lifetime recovery could be achieved by increasing the DLI concentrations to the insulator to metal transition. Krich, however, disproved this and in the process proposed a “figure of merit” to determine if materials would be suitable for high efficiency IB’s. The idea was that if the non-radiative recombination lifetime was significantly higher than the transit time for an electron to move from the conduction band to the IB, then the material could increase efficiency. Essentially, the electron could reach the IB before recombining, leading to a higher induced photocurrent. \nThis figure of merit has been used to explain why no usable device has been fabricated using highly doped silicon. Chalcogen doped silicon, in particular, have low figures of merit due to their small non-radiative recombination lifetimes. To achieve IB devices, more research needs to be done to find a bulk semiconductor material that exhibits higher non-radiative recombination lifetimes.\n"}
{"id": "8976994", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8976994", "title": "International Association of GeoChemistry", "text": "International Association of GeoChemistry\n\nThe IAGC (International Association of GeoChemistry, formerly known as the International Association of Geochemistry and Cosmochemistry) is affiliated with the International Union of Geological Sciences and has been one of the pre-eminent international geochemical organizations for over thirty-five years. \n\nThe principal objective of the IAGC is to foster co-operation in, and advancement of, geochemistry in the broadest sense. This is achieved by:\n\nThe scientific thrust of the IAGC takes place through its Working Groups (many of which organize regular symposia) and the official journal, Applied Geochemistry.\n\nThe specific objectives of the IAGC are:\n\n\nThe International Association of Geochemistry and Cosmochemistry (IAGC) was formally founded on 8 May 1967. Prior to that time the organization of international geochemical affairs was largely carried out through the Inorganic Chemistry section of the International Union of Pure and Applied Chemistry (IUPAC) starting in 1960. It was at the twenty-first International Geological Congress (IGC) at Copenhagen in 1960 when the International Union of Geological Sciences (IUGS) was formally established and geochemists formed a close bond with the world geological community. Earl Ingerson, as Chairman or Secretary to three of the then existing international geochemical organizations, coordinated a meeting of members of the committees on geochemistry of the IGC, IUGG and IUPAC in New Delhi in 1964, but was himself unable to attend. This meeting, chaired by Ken Sugawara, drew up draft statutes and nominated temporary officers, with the result that in November 1965, Earl Ingerson called a meeting in Paris to name the association, complete the statutes, elect temporary officers and apply to IUGS for immediate affiliation. The first Council meeting was held on 8 May 1967 at UNESCO headquarters in Paris, presided over by Earl Ingerson.\n\nUntil 2000, the Association's governing body was the General Assembly which met during each IGC. The main internal financial support was provided by National Members who voted at the General Assembly. Some outside funding also came from UNESCO and IUGS Day-to-day operations between each General Assembly were carried out by a Council of five officers and eight Council members.\n\nDuring its existence, IAGC has, through its various working groups and members, sponsored or co-sponsored more than 40 international meetings, which represent its main financial expenditure. Many of these meetings result from close cooperation with other associations affiliated with IUGS and IUGG, as well as various international, national, provincial and academic organizations. Proceedings of these meetings are usually published. In 1986 the IAGC launched its official journal, Applied Geochemistry.\n\nAt the General Assembly of the IAGC in Rio de Janeiro, National Memberships were terminated as it was widely felt that the IAGC was sufficiently mature and financially stable that the control and support of individual countries on the IAGC, through designated representatives (who may not have been geochemists), was redundant and potentially counter-productive. Thus, the IAGC evolved into a self-supported organization whose activities were controlled by its members, through an elected Executive and Council.\n\nRecently, the Statutes of the IAGC have undergone important revisions to be more applicable to current plans and operations. Also, as described on the IAGC homepage, there has been a name change to reflect the applied geochemical nature of the IAGC (now the International Association of GeoChemistry).\n"}
{"id": "51036055", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51036055", "title": "Koca Katran", "text": "Koca Katran\n\nKoca Katran Lübnan sediri (literally: Big old cedar of Lebanon) is a monumental old cedar of Lebanon (\"Cedrus libani\") in Antalya Province, southern Turkey. It is a registered natural monument of the country.\n\nKoca Katran is located within Çığlıkara Nature Reserve, a cedar forest, in Elmalı district of Antalya Province. The tree is high and the circumference of its trunk is at diameter. \n\nThe old tree was registered a natural monument in 1995. The age of the cedar was dated as 2000 years old when it was registered.\n"}
{"id": "77446", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=77446", "title": "Leucothea", "text": "Leucothea\n\nIn Greek mythology, Leucothea (; \"Leukothéa\"), \"white goddess\") was one of the aspects under which an ancient sea goddess was recognized, in this case as a transformed nymph.\n\nIn the more familiar variant, Ino, the daughter of Cadmus, sister of Semele, and queen of Athamas, became a goddess after Hera drove her insane as a punishment for caring for the newborn Dionysus. She leapt into the sea with her son Melicertes in her arms, and out of pity, the Hellenes asserted, the Olympian gods turned them both into sea-gods, transforming Melicertes into Palaemon, the patron of the Isthmian games, and Ino into Leucothea.\n\nIn the version sited at Rhodes, a much earlier mythic level is reflected in the genealogy: there, the woman who plunged into the sea and became Leucothea was Halia (\"of the sea\", a personification of the saltiness of the sea) whose parents were from the ancient generation, Thalassa and Pontus or Uranus. She was a local nymph and one of the aboriginal Telchines of the island. Halia became Poseidon's wife and bore him Rhodos and six sons; the sons were maddened by Aphrodite in retaliation for an impious affront, assaulted their sister and were confined beneath the Earth by Poseidon. Thus the Rhodians traced their mythic descent from Rhodos and the Sun god Helios.\n\nIn the \"Odyssey\" (5.333 ff.), Leucothea makes a dramatic appearance as a gannet who tells the shipwrecked Odysseus to discard his cloak and raft and offers him a veil (κρήδεμνον, \"kredemnon\") to wind round himself to save his life and reach land. Homer makes her the transfiguration of Ino. In Laconia, she has a sanctuary, where she answers people's questions about dreams. This is her form of the oracle.\n\nLeucothea is mentioned by John Milton in the \"Paradise Lost\" scene where archangel Michael descends to Adam and Eve to declare that they must no longer abide in Paradise (second edition, 1674, book XI, lines 133-135):\n\nMeanwhile,<br>\nTo resalute the World with sacred light,<br>\nLeucothea wak'd...\n\nLeucothea is mentioned by Robert Graves in \"The White Goddess\".\n\nIn Ezra Pound's Cantos, she is one of the goddess figures who comes to the poet's aid in \"Section: Rock-Drill\" (Cantos 85–95). She is introduced in Canto 91 as \"Cadmus's daughter\":\nAs the sea-gull Κάδμου θυγάτηρ said to Odysseus<br>\nKADMOU THUGATER<br>\n      \"get rid of parap[h]ernalia\"\nShe returns in Cantos 93 (\"Κάδμου θυγάτηρ\") and 95 (\"Κάδμου θυγάτηρ/ bringing light \"per diafana\"/ λευκὁς Λευκόθοε/ white foam, a sea-gull... 'My bikini is worth yr/ raft'. Said Leucothae... Then Leucothea had pity,/'mortal once/ Who now is a sea-god...'\"), and reappears at the beginning of Canto 96, the first of the \"Thrones\" section (\"Κρήδεμνον.../ κρήδεμνον.../ and the wave concealed her,/ dark mass of great water.\").\n\nLeucothea appears twice in \"Dialoghi con Leucò\" (Dialogues with Leucò) by Cesare Pavese.\n\n\"Leucothoé\" was the first work by the Irish playwright Isaac Bickerstaffe published in 1756.\n\nLeucothea becomes a metaphor, in Marcel Proust's \"In the Shadow of Young Girls in Flower\", for the mist that covers a young man's gaze when looking on the beauty of young women: \"...a cloud that had re-formed a few days later, once I had met them, muting the glow of their loveliness, often passing between them and my eyes, which saw them now dimmed, as through a gentle haze, reminiscent of Virgil's Leucothea.\"\n\nLeukothea is a poem by Keith Douglas. \n\nA similar name is carried by two other characters in Greek mythology.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5882266", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5882266", "title": "List of Sites of Special Scientific Interest in Surrey", "text": "List of Sites of Special Scientific Interest in Surrey\n\nSurrey is a county in South East England. It has an area of and an estimated population of 1.1 million as of 2017. It is bordered by Greater London, Kent, East Sussex, West Sussex, Hampshire and Berkshire.\n\nAs of October 2018, there are 62 Sites of Special Scientific Interest in the county, 52 of which have been designated for their biological interest, 8 for their geological interest, and 2 for both biological and geological interest. \n\n"}
{"id": "6100967", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6100967", "title": "List of beneficial weeds", "text": "List of beneficial weeds\n\nThis is a list of undomesticated or feral plants, generally considered weeds, yet having some positive effects or uses, often being ideal as companion plants in gardens.\n\nBeneficial weeds can accomplish a number of roles in the garden or yard, including fertilizing the soil, increasing moisture, acting as shelter or living mulch, repelling pests, attracting beneficial insects, or serving as food or other resources for human beings.\n\n\n\n\n\nTrap crops draw potential pests away from the actual crop intended for cultivation.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "164917", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=164917", "title": "List of dams and reservoirs", "text": "List of dams and reservoirs\n\nThe following is a list of reservoirs and dams, arranged by continent and country.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nKosovo:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45349", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45349", "title": "List of national parks of Kenya", "text": "List of national parks of Kenya\n\nThe national park system of Kenya is maintained by the Kenya Wildlife Service. There are two main types of terrestrial protected areas in Kenya: national parks, and national reserves; there are also marine parks and marine reserves.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50034353", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50034353", "title": "List of nuclear close calls", "text": "List of nuclear close calls\n\nA nuclear close call is an incident that could lead to, or could have led to, at least one unintended nuclear detonation/explosion. These incidents typically involve a perceived imminent threat to a nuclear-armed country which could lead to retaliatory strikes against the perceived aggressor. The damage caused by international nuclear exchange is not necessarily limited to the participating countries, as the hypothesized rapid climate change associated with even small-scale regional nuclear war could threaten food production worldwide—a scenario known as nuclear famine.\n\nDespite a reduction in global nuclear tensions after the end of the Cold War, estimated nuclear warhead stockpiles total roughly 15,000 worldwide, with the United States and Russia holding 90% of the total.\n\nThough exact details on many nuclear close calls are hard to come by, the analysis of particular cases has highlighted the importance of a variety of factors in preventing accidents. At an international level, this includes the importance of context and outside mediation; at the national level, effectiveness in government communications, and involvement of key decision-makers; and, at the individual level, the decisive role of individuals in following intuition and prudent decision-making, often in violation of protocol.\n\nDuring the Suez Crisis, the North American Aerospace Defense Command (NORAD) received a number of simultaneous reports, including unidentified aircraft over Turkey, Soviet MiG-15 fighters over Syria, a downed British Canberra medium bomber, and unexpected maneuvers by the Soviet Black Sea Fleet through the Dardanelles that appeared to signal a Soviet offensive. Considering previous Soviet threats to utilize conventional weapons against France and the UK, U.S. forces believed these events could trigger a NATO nuclear strike against the Soviet Union. In fact, all reports of Soviet action turned out to be erroneous, misinterpreted, or exaggerated. The perceived threat was due to a coincidental combination of events, including a wedge of swans over Turkey, a fighter escort for the Syrian president returning from Moscow, a British bomber brought down by mechanical issues, and scheduled exercises of the Soviet fleet.\n\nRadar equipment in Thule, Greenland mistakenly interpreted a moonrise over Norway as a large-scale Soviet missile launch. Upon receiving a report of the supposed attack, NORAD went on high alert. However, doubts about the authenticity of the attack arose due to the presence of Soviet leader Nikita Khrushchev in New York as head of the USSR's United Nations delegation.\n\nStaff at the Strategic Air Command Headquarters (SAC HQ) simultaneously lost contact with NORAD and multiple Ballistic Missile Early Warning System sites. Since these communication lines were designed to be redundant and independent from one another, the communications failure was interpreted as either a very unlikely coincidence or a coordinated attack. SAC HQ prepared the entire ready force for takeoff before already-overhead aircraft confirmed that there did not appear to be an attack. It was later found that the failure of a single relay station in Colorado was the sole cause of the communications problem.\n\nAt the height of the Cuban Missile Crisis, Soviet patrol submarine almost launched a nuclear-tipped torpedo while under harassment by American naval forces. One of several vessels surrounded by American destroyers near Cuba, \"B-59\" dove to avoid detection and was unable to communicate with Moscow for a number of days. began dropping practice depth charges to signal \"B-59\" to surface, however the Soviet submarine took these to be real depth charges. With low batteries affecting the submarine's life support systems and without orders from Moscow, the commander of \"B-59\" believed that war may have already begun and ordered the use of a 10-kiloton nuclear torpedo against the American fleet. The submarine political officer agreed, but commander of the sub-flotilla Vasili Arkhipov persuaded the captain to surface and await orders.\n\nOn the same day, an American U-2 spy plane was shot down over Cuba, and another U-2 flown by United States Air Force Captain Charles Maultsby strayed into Soviet airspace. Despite orders to avoid Soviet airspace by at least , a navigational error took the U-2 over the Chukotka Peninsula, causing Soviet MiG interceptors to scramble and pursue the aircraft. American F-102A interceptors armed with GAR-11 Falcon nuclear air-to-air missiles (each with a 0.25 kiloton yield) were then scrambled to escort the U-2 into friendly airspace. Individual pilots were capable of arming and launching their missiles.\n\nThe Command Center of the Office of Emergency Planning went on full alert after a massive power outage in the northeastern United States. Several nuclear bomb detectors—used to distinguish between regular power outages and power outages caused by a nuclear blast—near major U.S. cities malfunctioned due to circuit errors, creating the illusion of a nuclear attack.\n\nA powerful solar flare accompanied by a coronal mass ejection interfered with multiple NORAD radars over the Northern Hemisphere. This interference was initially interpreted as intentional jamming of the radars by the Soviets, thus an act of war. A nuclear bomber counter-strike was nearly launched by the U.S.\n\nA computer error at NORAD headquarters led to alarm and full preparation for a nonexistent large-scale Soviet attack. NORAD notified national security adviser Zbigniew Brzezinski that the Soviet Union had launched 250 ballistic missiles with a trajectory for the United States, stating that a decision to retaliate would need to be made by the president within 3 to 7 minutes. NORAD computers then placed the number of incoming missiles at 2,200. Strategic Air Command was notified, and nuclear bombers prepared for takeoff. Within six to seven minutes of the initial response, satellite and radar systems were able to confirm that the attack was a false alarm. It was found that a training scenario was inadvertently loaded into an operational computer. Commenting on the incident, U.S. State Department adviser Marshall Shulman stated that \"false alerts of this kind are not a rare occurrence. There is a complacency about handling them that disturbs me.\" In the months following the incident there were 3 more false alarms at NORAD, 2 of them caused by faulty computer chips.\n\nOne of four Soviet missiles launched from a submarine near the Kuril Islands was detected by an American early warning sensor and determined to be heading towards the United States.\n\nSeveral weeks after the downing of Korean Air Lines Flight 007 over Soviet airspace, a satellite early-warning system near Moscow reported the launch of one American Minuteman ICBM. Soon after, it reported that five missiles had been launched. Convinced that a real American offensive would involve many more missiles, Lieutenant Colonel Stanislav Petrov of the Air Defense Forces refused to acknowledge the threat as legitimate and continued to convince his superiors that it was a false alarm until this could be confirmed by ground radar. Two months later, parts of the Soviet government misinterpreted the Able Archer 83 NATO simulation of escalation to DEFCON 1 as a possible ruse of war to obscure preparations for a genuine nuclear first strike.\n\nRussian President Boris Yeltsin became the first world leader to activate a nuclear briefcase after Russian radar systems detected the launch of a Norwegian Black Brant XII research rocket being used to study the Northern Lights. Russian strategic ballistic missile submarines were put on alert in preparation for a possible retaliatory strike. When it became clear the rocket did not pose a threat to Russia and was not part of a larger attack, the alarm was cancelled. Russia was in fact one of a number of countries earlier informed of the launch; however, the information had not reached the Russian radar operators.\n\nCommanders at a U.S. Air Force base in Wyoming lost most forms of command, control, and security monitoring over 50 nuclear ICBMs for approximately 45 minutes. The missiles were taken offline after a suspected hardware problem caused multiple errors with control computers. Although military officials maintain that the missiles remained under control and were not susceptible to outside attempts to gain control, former Air Force launch officer Bruce G. Blair expressed concerns that missiles in this status could be vulnerable to launch attempts by hackers or compromised missile crews.\n"}
{"id": "58525705", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58525705", "title": "List of pipeline accidents in the United States in 2006", "text": "List of pipeline accidents in the United States in 2006\n\nThe following is a list of pipeline accidents in the United States in 2006. It is one of several lists of U.S. pipeline accidents. See also list of natural gas and oil production accidents in the United States.\n\nThis is not a complete list of all pipeline accidents. For natural gas alone, the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration (PHMSA), a United States Department of Transportation agency, has collected data on more than 3,200 accidents deemed serious or significant since 1987.\n\nA \"significant incident\" results in any of the following consequences:\n\nPHMSA and the National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB) post incident data and results of investigations into accidents involving pipelines that carry a variety of products, including natural gas, oil, diesel fuel, gasoline, kerosene, jet fuel, carbon dioxide, and other substances. Occasionally pipelines are repurposed to carry different products.\n\n"}
{"id": "28994711", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28994711", "title": "List of rivers of Thailand", "text": "List of rivers of Thailand\n\nThis is a list of rivers of Thailand. The rivers are arranged alphabetically within their respective provinces or special governed districts. The same river may be found in more than one province as many rivers cross province borders.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25328276", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25328276", "title": "List of venomous animals", "text": "List of venomous animals\n\nNumerous animal species naturally produce chemical toxins which are used to kill or incapacitate prey or as a defense against predators. Venomous animals deliver these toxins as venom through a bite, sting, or other specially evolved mechanism.\n\nVenoms have evolved to serve a wide variety of purposes. Their intended effects can range from mild fleeting discomfort to paralysis and death, and they may be highly selective in which species they target, often making them harmless to all but a few specific co-evolved organisms. Because the definition of \"venomous\" can be extremely broad, this list includes only those animals with venom that is known or suspected to be medically significant for humans or domestic animals.\n\nStrictly speaking, all spiders and scorpions possess venom, though only a handful are dangerous to humans. Spiders typically deliver their venom with a bite from piercing, fang-like chelicerae; scorpions sting their victims with a long, curved stinger mounted on the telson.\n\n\nOf more than a thousand known species of scorpion, only a few dozen have venom that is dangerous to humans, most notably the bark scorpions, including:\n\n\n\n\nMany species of octopus, squid, and cuttlefish make use of venom when hunting their prey.\n\nThere are at least 1,200 species of venomous fish, including:\n\n\n\n\nOnly a few modern mammal species are capable of producing venom; they are likely the last living examples of what was once a more common trait among the mammals. The definition of \"venomous\" becomes less distinct here, however, and whether some species are truly venomous is still disputed.\n\nSome scientists have proposed that \"Sinornithosaurus\" had a venomous bite, but recent evidence suggests otherwise.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "210337", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=210337", "title": "Little Belt", "text": "Little Belt\n\nThe Little Belt () is a strait between the island of Funen and the Jutland Peninsula in Denmark. It is one of the three Danish Straits that drain and connect the Baltic Sea to the Kattegat strait, which drains west to the North Sea and Atlantic Ocean.\n\nThe Little Belt is about long and to wide, and its deepest point is at Marens Hul west of the island of Fænø, at , which makes it deeper than its sister strait, the Great Belt. Numerous small Danish islands lie within the belt. In part because of its depth, 10% of the water moving between the inner Baltic Sea and the Kattegat flows through the Little Belt.\n\nThe Little Belt stretches from the town of Juelsminde in the north to the island of Als in the south, with a winding course in between. The northern end is the widest at over . From there it runs southwest, narrowing to about at a place called \"Snævringen\" (The Narrows), where the two Little Belt Bridges are located. South of Fænø, the strait widens to about until it reaches the Baltic Sea near Als and the South Funen Archipelago.\n\nThe Little Belt's western coastline is largely broken up by irregular inlets called fjords, and both sides feature steep sand bluffs.\n\nThe area around the Little Belt is shaped by numerous glacial moraines, the first of which was formed during the early Weichsel glaciation approximately 22-25,000 years ago. Approximately 14-15,000 years ago, during the late Weichsel glaciation, ice arrived from the south and southeast, one part of which became the Little Belt Glacier, causing hilly terrain with deep fjords. The notable tunnel valleys were formed by meltwater. The terminal moraines from the northeast ice's glacial maximum are some of the oldest in Denmark.\n\nThe Little Belt is a protected wetland under the Ramsar Convention and a particularly important spot for breeding and migrating birds. Protected species in the area include whooper swans, white-tailed eagles, western marsh harriers, spotted crakes, corn crakes, pied avocets, ruffs, short-eared owls, common terns, Arctic terns, little terns, greater scaups, common eiders, common goldeneyes, and red-breasted mergansers.\n\nThe Little Belt has the highest known density of harbour porpoises in the world, and is home to several thousand individuals. It is the only resident cetacean in the inner Danish waters. Observation tours are accessible nearby as well. Other species such as minke, humpback, and fin whales visit the waters rather sporadically. The deep waters attract many species of fish, including cod, herring, and sea trout, and the Little Belt is a destination for recreational fishing.\n\nHuman populations lived around the Little Belt during the Stone Age, hunting aurochs, reindeer, and other game in the tunnel valleys and forests. Climate and geological changes brought new plants and animals to the area and made the fishery in the fjords and neighboring archipelagoes into an important food source. Around 4000 BC, temperatures rose again, and the Funnelbeaker culture was active in the area. There are many archaeological sites from the Funnelbeaker culture and other Neolithic cultures in the area.\n\nThroughout the Bronze Age, Iron Age, and Viking Age, trade with other populations increased, and settlements became larger and more permanent. In the 14th century, the towns of Kolding and Vejle received merchant town privileges, and today they are the area's two largest towns.\n\nFrom the Middle Ages until the end of the 19th century, local fishermen were also involved in harbour porpoise hunting. Harbor porpoises winter in Danish waterways, and fishermen would wait in the narrow parts of the belt and drive them to the shallows where they would be slaughtered. Porpoise oil, a type of whale oil, was in widespread use as a lamp oil until the spread of electric lighting undermined the porpoise hunting economy. In the winter of 1854-55, 1,742 porpoises were captured, but otherwise, the catch from most winters was around 700-800 porpoises. Porpoise hunting was regulated by laws dating to at least 1593. The law was overturned by a royal resolution on May 4, 1899, although shortages during World War I and II caused short-lived resurgences in porpoise hunting.\n\n19th century proponents of German unification advocated considering the Little Belt (German: \"Kleiner Belt\") as the northern border of Germany, and the Belt is mentioned in this context in Ernst Mortiz Arndt's \"Was ist des Deutschen Vaterland?\" (1813) and the \"Deutschlandlied\" (1841), the third stanza of which is the current German national anthem. This reflects the fact that the Denmark-Germany border has shifted several times over the centuries, so that the current Danish region of Southern Jutland was once part of the Duchy of Schleswig.\n\nThe Little Belt has historically been an important shipping channel. In the present day, it is popular among divers for its archaeological sites and shipwrecks.\n\nVarious ferry services have crossed the Little Belt over the years, including the Snoghøj-Middelfart ferry, followed by the Fredericia-Strib ferry, which became Denmark's first train ferry in 1872. Ferry crossings were replaced by the Old Little Belt Bridge in 1935 and the New Little Belt Bridge in 1970. Today, the old bridge carries local traffic and train lines, while the new bridge carries the E20 motorway.\n\nTwo power lines also previously crossed the Little Belt, the first of which was dismantled and replaced by an undersea cable in 2013.\n\n"}
{"id": "53666267", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53666267", "title": "Matsukawa Geothermal Power Plant", "text": "Matsukawa Geothermal Power Plant\n\nThe is Japan's first commercial geothermal power station. It is located in the city of Hachimantai, Iwate Prefecture in the Tōhoku region of northern Japan.\n\nThe plant is located in the Hachimantai Plateau, in the Ōu Mountains. After seams of steam were found at the Matsuo mine in 1952, plans began to utilize this resource for the generation of electric power. The plant was completed in 1966 with a total construction cost of 2 billion yen by Japan Metals & Chemicals Co., Ltd. was operated by the same company. After a corporate reorganization, the plant was turned over to Tohoku Geothermal Energy Company, a subsidiary of Tohoku Electric. \n\nIn addition to power generation, the waste hot water is supplied to farmers with greenhouses for agricultural applications.\n\nIn 2016, the Matsukawa Georthermal Plant was certified as one of the Mechanical Engineering Heritage sites of Japan by the Japan Society of Mechanical Engineers (JSME). As it marked its fiftieth year, the plant was also cited as an inspiration for new power sources following the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear disaster.\n\nThe plant comprises one generation unit with a capacity of 23.5 MW.\n\n"}
{"id": "2280670", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2280670", "title": "Naturalisation (biology)", "text": "Naturalisation (biology)\n\nIn biology, naturalisation (or naturalization) is any process by which a non-native organism or species spreads into the wild and its reproduction is sufficient to maintain its population. Such populations are said to be naturalised.\n\nSome populations do not sustain themselves reproductively, but exist because of continued influx from elsewhere. Such a non-sustaining population, or the individuals within it, are said to be adventive. Cultivated plants are a major source of adventive populations.\n\nNaturalised species may become invasive species if they become sufficiently abundant to have an adverse effect on native plants and animals.\n\n"}
{"id": "198579", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=198579", "title": "Non-Proliferation Trust", "text": "Non-Proliferation Trust\n\nThe Non-Proliferation Trust (NPT) is a U.S. Not-for-profit corporation that, at the beginning of the 21st century, advocated storing 10,000 tons of U.S. nuclear waste in Russia for a fee of $15 billion paid to the Russian government and $250 million paid to a fund for Russian orphans. The group was headed by Admiral Daniel Murphy. This proposal was endorsed by the Russian atomic energy ministry, MinAtom, which estimated that the proposal could eventually generate $150 billion in revenue for Russia.\n\n"}
{"id": "16805846", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16805846", "title": "Nordic energy market", "text": "Nordic energy market\n\nNordic electricity market is a common market for electricity in the Nordic countries. It is one of the first free electric-energy markets in Europe and is traded in NASDAQ OMX Commodities Europe and Nord Pool Spot. In 2003, the largest market shares were as follows: Vattenfall 17%, Fortum 14.1%, Statkraft 8.9%, E.on 7.5%, Elsam 5%, Pohjolan Voima 5%. Other producers had 42.5% market share.\n\nFrom 1999 and onwards, Denmark is a net exporter of fossil energy.\n\nWind power provided 18.9% of electricity production and 24.1% of generation capacity in Denmark in 2008, Denmark was a pioneer in developing commercial wind power during the 1970s, and today almost half of the wind turbines around the world are produced by Danish manufacturers such as Vestas and Siemens Wind Power along with many component suppliers.\n\nCoal power provided 48.0% of the electricity and 22.0% of the heat in district heating in Denmark in 2008; and in total provided 21.6% of total energy consumption (187PJ out of 864PJ) and is based mainly on coal imported from outside Europe.\n\nCheap and reliable energy is of exceptional importance to Finland. The energy demand is high because of its cold climate and the structure of its industry. Finland's hydrocarbon resources are limited to peat and wood, while neighboring Norway has oil and Estonia oil shale. Until the 1960s, Finnish energy policy relied on the electricity produced by hydropower stations and extensive decentralised use of wood for energy. Finland's 187,888 lakes do not lie much above sea level – less than 80 metres in the case of the two biggest lakes, Saimaa and Päijänne. Consequently, Finland has less hydropower capacity than Sweden or Norway.\n\nFinnish energy cooperative Teollisuuden voima operates four nuclear reactors that produce 18 percent of the country's energy. There is also one research reactor in Otaniemi campus and Olkiluoto Nuclear Power Plant, the fifth AREVA-Siemens-built reactor – world's largest at 1600 MWe and a showcase of new technology – is currently under construction. It was supposed to be finished by 2009, but won't be finished according to the newest approximations before 2016. Finland's Kyoto and EU emission terms are causing a sharp increase in energy prices and the existing reactors are aging: there has been talk about many more reactors and the sixth is already under environmental impact assessment.\n\nWind power would be by far the cleanest energy form in Finland (the existing hydropower plants and nuclear power excluded), but because political parties - particularly the True Finns - are hesitant to grant wind power permits, most energy is produced from fossil fuels, mainly coal and oil. About 25 percent of energy production is categorized to be renewable energy, which is high compared to the EU average 10 percent. About one fifth of all the energy consumed in Finland is wood-based. Industrial residue and garbage are often utilized for energy. Many homeowners use wood as an additional (but not primary) heat source. About seven percent of electricity is produced from peat harvested from Finland's extensive bogs.\n\nCurrently, some electricity is imported to Finland. In recent years, a varying amount (5–17 percent) of power has been imported from Russia, Sweden and Norway. The Norwegian and Swedish hydroelectric plants remain an important source for imported power. The current energy policy debate is centred on self-sustainability. There are plans to build a submarine power cable from Russia, but this is also considered a national security issue. The government has already rejected one plan for such a power cable. Neste Oil operates two large oil refineries for domestic and Baltic markets, refined products making 36 percent of chemical exports.\n\nHydropower stands for almost 98% of the energy production in Norway. The country lacks of larger lakes that can be used as water storage magazines. However, height differences are generally very high due to the country's mountainous nature. This together with large amounts of rain- and snowfall each year makes for favourable hydropower conditions. Norway has some of the largest hydroelectric power stations in Europe, with the largest, Kvilldal Hydroelectric Power Station, at 1240 MW. This is larger than the largest of Sweden, Harsprånget, at 977 MW. Norway exports large amounts of its electricity production. The correlation is low between wind power in Norway and Denmark.\n<br>\nThe oil and natural gas produced in the country is mostly exported, and the small oil amounts used are mostly for vehicles.\n\nThe 1973 oil crisis strengthened Sweden's commitment to decrease dependence on imported fossil fuels. Since then, electricity has been generated mostly from hydropower and nuclear power. Among other things, the accident of Three Mile Island Nuclear Generating Station (United States) prompted the Swedish parliament to hold a referendum on nuclear power. The referendum led to a decision that no further nuclear power plants should be built and that a nuclear power phase-out should be completed by 2010. Instead, Sweden has elected to build new reactors to replace its existing ones.\n\nIn 2006, out of a total electricity production of 139 TWh, electricity from hydropower accounted for 61 TWh (44%), and nuclear power delivered 65 TWh (47%). At the same time, the use of biofuels, peat etc. produced 13 TWh (9%) of electricity, while wind power produced 1 TWh (1%). Sweden was a net importer of electricity by a margin of 6 TWh. Biomass is mainly used to produce heat for district heating and central heating and industry processes.\n\nIn March 2005, an opinion poll showed that 83% supported maintaining or increasing nuclear power. Since then however, reports about radioactive leakages at a nuclear waste store in Forsmark, Sweden, have been published, although this does not seem to have changed the public support of continued use of nuclear power. In 2010 Parliament halted the phase-out policy, allowing for new reactors to replace existing ones.\n\nIn an effort to phase out the dependency on nuclear power and fossil fuels, the Swedish government has launched a multi-billion krona programme to promote renewable energy and energy efficiency. The country has for many years pursued a strategy of indirect taxation as an instrument of environmental policy, including energy taxes in general and carbon dioxide taxes in particular. Also in 2005, Sweden garnered international attention by announcing its intention to break its dependence on foreign oil within 15 years, with the goal of becoming the world's first oil-free economy.\n\nInternal bottlenecks in the Swedish electric grid (Cut 2 and Cut 4) restrict transmission of electricity between hydro plants in the north, and nuclear and fossil plants in the south. Sweden had a policy of a single system price regardless of power differences between areas up until 2011. This was changed and today Sweden has four different price zones.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2188925", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2188925", "title": "Obsidian hydration dating", "text": "Obsidian hydration dating\n\nObsidian hydration dating (OHD) is a geochemical method of determining age in either absolute or relative terms of an artifact made of obsidian.\n\nObsidian is a volcanic glass that was used by prehistoric people as a raw material in the manufacture of stone tools such as projectile points, knives, or other cutting tools through knapping, or breaking off pieces in a controlled manner, such as pressure flaking.\n\nObsidian obeys the property of mineral hydration, and absorbs water, when exposed to air, at well defined rate. When an unworked nodule of obsidian is initially fractured, there is typically less than 1% water present. Over time, water slowly diffuses into the artifact forming a narrow \"band,\" \"rim,\" or \"rind\" that can be seen and measured with many different techniques such as a high-power microscope with 40-80 power magnification, depth profiling with SIMS (secondary ion mass spectrometry), and IR-PAS (infra red photoacoustic spectroscopy). In order to use obsidian hydration for absolute dating, the conditions that the sample has been exposed to and its origin must be understood or compared to samples of a known age (e.g. as a result of radiocarbon dating of associated materials).\n\nObsidian hydration dating was introduced in 1960 by Irving Friedman and Robert Smith of the U.S. Geological Survey. Their initial work focused on obsidians from archaeological sites in western North America.\n\nThe use of Secondary ion mass spectrometry (SIMS) in the measurement of obsidian hydration dating was introduced by two independent research teams in 2002.\n\nToday the technique is applied extensively by archaeologists to date prehistoric sites and sites from prehistory in California and the Great Basin of North America. It has also been applied in South America, the Middle East, the Pacific Islands, including New Zealand and Mediterranean Basin.\n\nTo measure the hydration band, a small slice of material is typically cut from an artifact. This sample is ground down to about 30 micrometers thick and mounted on a petrographic slide. The hydration rind is then measured under a high-power microscope outfitted with some method for measuring distance, typically in tenths of micrometers. The technician measures the microscopic amount of water absorbed on freshly broken surfaces. The principle behind obsidian hydration dating is simple–the longer the artifact surface has been exposed, the thicker the hydration band will be.\n\nIn case of measuring the hydration rim using the depth profiling ability of the secondary ion mass spectrometry technique, the sample is mounted on a holder without any preparation or cutting. This method of measurement is non-destructive.\nThere are two general SIMS modes: static mode and dynamic mode, depending on the primary ion current density, and three different types of mass spectrometers: magnetic sector, quadrupole and time-of-flight (TOF).\nAny mass-spectrometer can work in static mode (very low ion current, a top mono-atomic layer analysis), and dynamic mode (a high ion current density, in-depth analysis).\n\nAlthough relatively infrequent the use of SIMS on obsidian surface investigations has produced great progress in OHD dating. SIMS in general refers to four instrumental categories according to their operation; static, dynamic, quadrupole, and time-of-flight, TOF. In essence it is a technique with a large resolution on a plethora of chemical elements and molecular structures in an essentially non destructive manner. An approach to OHD with a completely new rationale suggests that refinement of the technique is possible in a manner which improves both its accuracy and precision and potentially expands the utility by generating reliable chronological data. Anovitz et al. presented a model which relied solely on compositionally-dependent diffusion, following numerical solutions (finite difference (FD), or finite element) elaborating on the H+ profile acquired by SIMS. A test of the model followed using results from Mount 65, Chalco in Mexico by Riciputi et al. This technique used numerical calculation to model the formation of the entire diffusion profile as a function of time and fitted the derived curve to the hydrogen profile. The FD equations are based on a number of assumptions about the behavior of water as it diffused into the glass and characteristic points of the SIMS H+ diffusion profile.\n\nIn Rhodes, Greece, under the direction and invention of Ioannis Liritzis,\nthe dating approach is based on modeling the S-like hydrogen profile by SIMS, following Fick's diffusion law, and an understanding of the surface saturation layer (see Figure). In fact, the saturation layer on the surface forms up to a certain depth depending on factors that include the kinetics of the diffusion mechanism for the water molecules, the specific chemical structure of obsidian, as well as the external conditions affecting diffusion (temperature, relative humidity, and pressure). Together these factors result in the formation of an approximately constant, boundary concentration value, in the external surface layer. Using the end product of diffusion, a phenomenological model has been developed, based on certain initial and boundary conditions and appropriate physicochemical mechanisms, that express the HO concentration versus depth profile as a diffusion/time equation.\n\nThis latest advance, the novel secondary ion mass spectrometry–surface saturation (SIMS-SS), thus, involves modelling the hydrogen concentration profile of the surface versus depth, whereas the age determination is reached via equations describing the diffusion process, while topographical effects have been confirmed and monitored through atomic force microscopy.\n\nSeveral factors complicate simple correlation of obsidian hydration band thickness with absolute age. Temperature is known to speed up the hydration process. Thus, artifacts exposed to higher temperatures, for example by being at lower elevation, seem to hydrate faster. As well, obsidian chemistry, including the intrinsic water content, seems to affect the rate of hydration. Once an archeologist can control for the geochemical signature of the obsidian (e.g., the \"source\") and temperature (usually approximated using an \"effective hydration temperature\" or EHT coefficient), he or she may be able to date the artifact using the obsidian hydration technique. Water vapor pressure may also affect the rate of obsidian hydration.\n\nThe reliability of the method based on Friedman’s empirical age equation (\"x²=kt\", where \"x\" is the thickness of the hydration rim, \"k\" is the diffusion coefficient, and \"t\" is the time) is questioned from several grounds regarding temperature dependence, square root of time and determination of diffusion rate per sample and per site, apart of some successful attempts on the procedure and applications.The SIMS-SS age calculation procedure is separated into two major steps. The first step concerns the calculation of a 3rd order fitting polynomial of the SIMS profile (eq.1). The second stage regards the determination of the saturation layer, i.e. its depth and concentration. The whole computing processing is embedded in stand-alone software created in Matlab (version 7.0.1) software package with a graphical user interface and executable under Windows XP. Thus, the SIMS-SS age equation in years before present is given in eq.2:\n\nformula_1<br>\nEq.1Fitting polynomial of the SIMS profile\n\nformula_2<br>Eq.2 The SIMS-SS age equation in years before present\n\nWhere, Ci is the intrinsic concentration of water, Cs is the saturation concentration, dC/dx is the diffusion coefficient for depth x=0, k is derived from a family of Crank’s theoretical diffusion curves, and Ds,eff is an effective diffusion coefficient (eq.3) which relates the inverse gradient of the fit polynomial to well dated samples:\n\nwhere Ds = (1/(dC/dx))10 assuming a constant flux and taken as unity. The eq.(2) and assumption of unity is a matter of further investigation.\n\nSeveral commercial companies and university laboratories provide obsidian hydration services.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "881162", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=881162", "title": "Pannonian Sea", "text": "Pannonian Sea\n\nThe Pannonian Sea was a shallow ancient sea located where the Pannonian Basin in Central Europe is now. The Pannonian Sea existed during the Miocene and Pliocene epochs, when a three to four kilometre depth of marine sediments were deposited in the Pannonian Basin.\n\nThe Pannonian Sea, for most of its history, was part of the Paratethys Sea. A Miocene uplift of the Carpathian Mountains isolated the sea from the rest of Paratethys (about 10 million years ago). \n\nDuring its first historical phase, the Pannonian Sea had a western connection with the Mediterranean Sea through the territories of the modern Ligurian Sea, Bavaria, and Vienna Basin. Through the Đerdap Strait, the Pannonian Sea was linked to the Paratethys in the Wallachian-Pontic Basin. The Pannonian Sea was also attached to the Aegean Sea through the modern Preševo Valley.\n\nDue to its diverse history the salinity of the sea often shifted. The decrease of salinity resulted an endemic fauna. \n\nThe Pannonian Sea existed for about 9 million years. Eventually, the sea lost its connection to the Paratethys and became a lake permanently (\"Pannonian Lake\"). Its last remnant, the Slavonian Lake, dried up in the Pleistocene epoch. The remnants of the former islands of the Pannonian Sea are the modern Pannonian island mountains (Mecsek, Papuk, Psunj, Krndija, Dilj, Fruška Gora, and Vršac Mountains).\n\nIn 1979, the Serbian musician Đorđe Balašević released a single titled \"\" (Pannonian sailor).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41207433", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41207433", "title": "Phantastron", "text": "Phantastron\n\nA Phantastron is a type of electron tube oscillator or timer circuit. It was invented during radar development during World War 2. It was described in the Radiation Laboratory series of books, in particular the one on waveforms.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26158226", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26158226", "title": "Prospective Outlook on Long-term Energy Systems", "text": "Prospective Outlook on Long-term Energy Systems\n\nProspective Outlook on Long-term Energy Systems (POLES) is a world simulation model for the energy sector that runs on the Vensim software. It is a techno-economic model with endogenous projection of energy prices, a complete accounting of energy demand and supply of numerous energy vectors and associated technologies, and a carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases emissions module.\n\nPOLES was initially developed in the early 1990s in the Institute of Energy Policy and Economics IEPE (now EDDEN-CNRS) in Grenoble, France. It was conceived on the basis of research issues related to global energy supply and climate change and the long-term impact of energy policies. It was initially developed through a detailed description of sectoral energy demand, electricity capacity planning and fossil fuel exploration and production in the different world regions. Along its development it incorporated theoretical and practical expertise in many fields such as mathematics, economics, engineering, energy analysis, international trade and technical change.\n\nThe initial development of POLES was financed by the JOULE II and III programmes of the European Commission’s Third and Fourth Framework Programmes (FP) for Research and Technological Development (1990-1994 and 1994-1998) as well as by the French CNRS. Since then, the model has been developed extensively through several projects, some partly financed by FP5, FP6 and FP7, and in collaboration between the EDDEN-CNRS, the consulting company Enerdata and the European Joint Research Centre IPTS.\n\nWith a history spanning twenty years, it is one of the few energy models worldwide that benefits from a continuous development process and expertise over such an extended time period.\n\nThe model provides a complete system for the simulation and economic analysis of the world’s energy sector up to 2050. POLES is a partial equilibrium model with a yearly recursive simulation process with a combination of price-induced behavioural equations and a cost- and performance-based system for a large number of energy or energy-related technologies. Contrary to several other energy sector models, international energy prices are endogenous. The main exogenous variables are the gross domestic product and population for each country or region.\n\nThe model’s structure corresponds to a system of interconnected modules and articulates three levels of analysis: international energy markets, regional energy balances, and national energy demand (which includes new technologies, electricity production, primary energy production systems and sectoral greenhouse gas emissions).\n\nPOLES breaks down the world into 66 regions, of which 54 correspond to countries (including the 28 countries of the European Union) and 12 correspond to countries aggregates; for each of these regions, a full energy balance is modelled. The model covers 15 energy demand sectors in each region.\n\nEach demand sector is described with a high degree of detail, including activity indicators, short- and long-term energy prices and associated elasticities and technological evolution trends (thus including the dynamic cumulative processes associated with technological learning curves). This allows a strong economic consistency in the adjustment of supply and demand by region, as relative price changes at a sectoral level impact all key component of a region’s sector. Sectoral value added is simulated.\n\nEnergy demand for each fuel in a sector follows a market share-based competition driven by energy prices and factors related to policy or development assumptions.\n\nThe model is composed of the following demand sectors:\n\n\nThere are 88 oil and gas production regions with inter-regional trade; these producing regions supply the international energy markets, which in turn feed the demand of the 66 aforementioned world regions. Fossil fuel supply modelisation includes a technological improvement in the oil recovery rate, a linkage between new discoveries and cumulative drilling and a feedback of the reserves/production ratio on the oil price. OPEC and non-OPEC production is differentiated. The model includes non-conventional oil resources such as oil shales and tar sands.\n\nThere are 30 electricity generation technologies, among which several technologies that are still marginal or planned, such as thermal production with carbon capture and storage or new nuclear designs. Price-induced diffusion tools such as feed-in tariffs can be included as drivers for projecting the future development of new energy technologies. \n\nThe model distinguishes four typical daily load curves in a year, with two-hour steps. The load curves are met by a generation mix given by a merit order that is based on marginal costs of operation, maintenance and annualized capital costs. Expected power demand over the year influences investment decisions for new capacity planning in the next step.\n\nThe model includes accounting of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and allows visualising GHG flows on sectoral, regional and global levels. POLES covers fuel combustion-related emissions in all demand sectors, thus covering over half of global GHG emissions. The six Kyoto Protocol GHGs are covered (carbon dioxide, methane, nitrous oxide, sulphur hexafluoride, hydrofluorocarbons and perfluorocarbons).\n\nThe model can be used to test the sensibility of the energy sector to the carbon price as applied to the price of fossil fuels on a regional level, as envisaged or experimented by cap and trade systems like the EU’s Emissions Trading Scheme.\n\nThe model’s databases have been developed by IPTS, EDDEN and Enerdata. Data on technological costs and performances were provided by the TECHPOL database. The data for historical energy demand, consumption and prices are compiled and provided by Enerdata.\n\nThe POLES model can be used to study or test the effect of different energy resources assumptions or energy policies and assess the importance of various driving variables behind energy demand and the penetration rates of certain electricity generation or end-use technologies. POLES does not directly provide the macro-economic impact of mitigation solutions as envisaged by the Stern Review, however it allows a detailed assessment of the costs associated with the development of low- or zero-carbon technologies.\n\nLinked with GHG emissions profiles, the model can produce marginal abatement cost curves (MACCs) for each region and sector at a desired time; these can be used to quantify the costs related to GHG emissions reduction or as an analysis tool for strategic areas for emissions control policies and emissions trading systems under different market configurations and trading rules.\n\nStudies including POLES simulations have been commissioned by international bodies such as several Directorates-General of the European Commission, national energy, environment, industry and transport agencies or private actors in the energy sector.\n\nPOLES can model changes in sectoral value added and shifts of activity between sectors. However POLES is not a macroeconomic model in the sense that it uses the gross domestic product as an input and includes no feedback on it that could result from the evolution of the energy system: carbon pricing, falling oil production and its effect on transport and mobility, or growth induced by technological innovation (such as the IT boom of the 1990s). As such, it does not provide the total impact on society of, e.g., climate adaptation or mitigation (it does however quantify the total cost to the energy sector, including investment necessary in the development of low-carbon technologies).\n\nThe model does not cover all greenhouse gases emissions, notably those related to agriculture (in part), land use, land-use change and forestry. As such, the climate component of the model does not allow to fully project GHG stocks, concentrations and associated temperature rises from anthropogenic climate change.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "208612", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=208612", "title": "Rattan", "text": "Rattan\n\nRattan (from the Malay \"rotan\") is the name for roughly 600 species of old world climbing palms belonging to subfamily Calamoideae (from the Greek 'kálamos' = reed). Rattan is also known as \"manila\", or \"malacca\", named after the ports of shipment Manila and Malacca City, and as \"manau\" (from the Malay \"rotan manau\", the trade name for \"Calamus manan\" canes in Southeast Asia). The climbing habit is associated with the characteristics of its flexible woody stem, derived typically from a secondary growth, makes rattan a liana rather than a true wood.\n\nCalamoideae also includes tree palms such as Raphia (\"Raffia\") and \"Metroxylon\" (Sago palm) and shrub palms such as \"Salacca\" (Salak) (Uhl & Dransfield 1987 \"Genera Palmarum\"). The climbing habit in palms is not restricted to Calamoideae, but has also evolved in three other evolutionary lines—tribes Cocoseae (\"Desmoncus\" with c. 7–10 species in the New World tropics) and Areceae (\"Dypsis scandens\" in Madagascar) in subfamily Arecoideae, and tribe Hyophorbeae (climbing species of the large genus \"Chamaedorea\" in Central America) in subfamily Ceroxyloideae. They do not have spinose stems and climb by means of their reflexed terminal leaflets. Of these only \"Desmoncus\" spp. furnish stems of sufficiently good quality to be used as rattan cane substitutes.\n\nThere are 13 different genera of rattans that include around 600 species. Some of the species in these \"rattan genera\" have a different habit and do not climb, they are shrubby palms of the forest undergrowth; nevertheless they are close relatives to species that are climbers and they are hence included in the same genera. The largest rattan genus is \"Calamus\", distributed in Asia except for one species represented in Africa. From the remaining rattan genera, \"Daemonorops, Ceratolobus, Korthalsia, Plectocomia, Plectocomiopsis, Myrialepis, Calospatha, Pogonotium\" and \"Retispatha\", are centered in Southeast Asia with outliers eastwards and northwards; and three are endemic to Africa: \"Laccosperma\" (syn. \"Ancistrophyllum\"), \"Eremospatha\" and \"Oncocalamus\".\n\nThe rattan genera and their distribution (Uhl & Dransfield 1987 \"Genera Palmarum\", Dransfield 1992):\n\nIn Uhl & Dransfield (1987 \"Genera Palmarum\", 2ºed. 2008), and also Dransfield & Manokaran (1993), a great deal of basic introductory information is available.\n\nAvailable rattan floras and monographs by region (2002):\n\nUses by taxon.\n\nThe major commercial species of rattan canes as identified for Asia by Dransfield and Manokaran (1993) and for Africa, by Tuley (1995) and Sunderland (1999) (\"Desmoncus\" not treated here):\n\nUtilized \"Calamus\" species canes:\n\nOther traditional uses of rattans by species:\n\nMost rattans differ from other palms in having slender stems, 2–5 cm diameter, with long internodes between the leaves; also, they are not trees but are vine-like lianas, scrambling through and over other vegetation. Rattans are also superficially similar to bamboo. Unlike bamboo, rattan stems (\"malacca\") are solid, and most species need structural support and cannot stand on their own. Many rattans have spines which act as hooks to aid climbing over other plants, and to deter herbivores. Rattans have been known to grow up to hundreds of metres long. Most (70%) of the world's rattan population exist in Indonesia, distributed among the islands Borneo, Sulawesi, and Sumbawa. The rest of the world's supply comes from the Philippines, Sri Lanka, Malaysia, and Bangladesh.\n\nIn forests where rattan grows, its economic value can help protect forest land, by providing an alternative to loggers who forgo timber logging and harvest rattan canes instead. Rattan is much easier to harvest, requires simpler tools and is much easier to transport. It also grows much faster than most tropical wood. This makes it a potential tool in forest maintenance, since it provides a profitable crop that depends on rather than replaces trees. It remains to be seen whether rattan can be as profitable or useful as the alternatives.\n\nRattans are threatened with overexploitation, as harvesters are cutting stems too young and reducing their ability to resprout. Unsustainable harvesting of rattan can lead to forest degradation, affecting overall forest ecosystem services. Processing can also be polluting. The use of toxic chemicals and petrol in the processing of rattan affects soil, air and water resources, and also ultimately people's health. Meanwhile, the conventional method of rattan production is threatening the plant's long-term supply, and the income of workers.\n\nRattans are extensively used for making baskets and furniture. When cut into sections, rattan can be used as wood to make furniture. Rattan accepts paints and stains like many other kinds of wood, so it is available in many colours, and it can be worked into many styles. Moreover, the inner core can be separated and worked into wicker.\n\nGenerally, raw rattan is processed into several products to be used as materials in furniture making. The various species of rattan range from several millimetres up to 5–7 cm in diameter. From a strand of rattan, the skin is usually peeled off, to be used as rattan weaving material. The remaining \"core\" of the rattan can be used for various purposes in furniture making. Rattan is a very good material, mainly because it is lightweight, durable, suitable for outdoor use, and, to a certain extent, flexible.\n\nTraditionally, the women of the Wemale ethnic group of Seram Island, Indonesia wore rattan girdles around their waist.\n\nThin rattan canes were the standard implement for school corporal punishment in England and Wales, and are still used for this purpose in schools in Malaysia, Singapore, and several African countries. Similar canes are used for military punishments in the Singapore Armed Forces. Heavier canes, also of rattan, are used for judicial corporal punishments, called \"caning\", in Aceh, Brunei, Malaysia, and Singapore.\n\nSome rattan fruits are edible, with a sour taste akin to citrus. The fruit of some rattans exudes a red resin called dragon's blood; this resin was thought to have medicinal properties in antiquity and was used as a dye for violins, among other things. The resin normally results in a wood with a light peach hue. In the Indian state of Assam, the shoot is also used as vegetable.\n\nIn early 2010, scientists in Italy announced that rattan wood would be used in a new \"wood to bone\" process for the production of artificial bone. The process takes small pieces of rattan and places it in a furnace. Calcium and carbon are added. The wood is then further heated under intense pressure in another oven-like machine, and a phosphate solution is introduced. This process produces almost an exact replica of bone material. The process takes about 10 days. At the time of the announcement the bone was being tested in sheep, and there had been no signs of rejection. Particles from the sheep's bodies have migrated to the \"wood bone\" and formed long, continuous bones. The new bone-from-wood programme is being funded by the European Union. Implants into humans were anticipated to start in 2015.\n\nRattan is the preferred natural material used to wick essential oils in aroma reed diffusers (commonly used in aromatherapy, or merely to scent closets, passageways, and rooms), because each rattan reed contains 20 or more permeable channels that wick the oil from the container up the stem and release fragrance into the air, through an evaporation diffusion process. In contrast, reeds made from bamboo contain nodes that inhibit the passage of essential oils.\n\nMany of the properties of rattan that make it suitable for furniture also make it a popular choice for handicraft and art pieces. Uses include rattan baskets, plant containers, and other decorative works.\n\nDue to its durability and resistance to splintering, sections of rattan can be used as canes, crooks for high-end umbrellas, or staves for martial arts. Rattan sticks 70 cm long, called \"baston\", are used in Filipino martial arts, especially Arnis/Eskrima/Kali and for the striking weapons in the Society for Creative Anachronism's full-contact \"armoured combat\".\n\nAlong with birch and bamboo, rattan is a common material used for the handles in percussion mallets, especially mallets for keyboard percussion, \"e.g.\", marimba, vibraphone, xylophone, etc.\n\nMost natives or locals from the rattan rich countries employ the aid of this sturdy plant in their home building projects. It is heavily used as a housing material in rural areas. The skin of the plant or wood is primarily used for weaving.\n\nRattan cane is also used traditionally to make polo mallets, though only a small portion of cane harvested (roughly 3%) is strong, flexible, and durable enough to be made into sticks for polo mallets, and popularity of rattan mallets is waning next the more modern variant, fibrecanes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11255261", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11255261", "title": "Raymond Hoser", "text": "Raymond Hoser\n\nRaymond Terrence Hoser (born 1962), who describes himself as a herpetologist, is an Australian snake-catcher and author. Since 1976, he has written books and articles about official corruption in Australia. He has also written works on Australian frogs and reptiles and operates a snake handling business, Snakebusters, in Melbourne. Some of Hoser's work is controversial, including his advocacy of the surgical alteration of captive snakes to remove their venom glands and his herpetological taxonomy.\n\nHoser has published several works as a whistleblower. In a 1998 radio interview he said that he was \"known as an anti-corruption crusader\". An analysis of his work by the Rationalist Society of Australia referred to him as a \"tireless investigator\" and he has received praise from Brian Martin, a former president of Whistleblowers Australia.\n\nIn his 1993 book \"Smuggled\", Hoser wrote that officials of the wildlife services in New South Wales were involved in the illegal wildlife trade.\n\nIn 1995, Hoser published \"The Hoser Files\", detailing his encounters with Victoria Police and the Road Traffic Authority in Melbourne while working as a taxi driver. (Hoser had moved to Victoria in 1985.)\n\nHoser has also written about the taxonomy of Australian snakes, describing new species and genera, and suggesting revisions to current arrangements. The majority of these nominations have not been accepted. Hoser's work has been a source of controversy in the field of herpetology, with a 2001 review in \"Litteratura Serpentium\" strongly criticising his publications as \"less than professional\", describing them as a source of confusion and wasted effort. The review claimed that Hoser provided no description of the holotype or type specimen for most of his new species, and argued that Hoser's alleged errors could have been avoided had the articles been published in a peer-reviewed, rather than amateur and non-institutional, journal. Charges of ethical misconduct were made in this article. Further criticism of Hoser's work was published in 2006, in a review that stated that \"the level of evidence provided by Hoser to justify his taxonomic acts is minimal\" and charged that several of his publications appear to have been made with the intention of scooping other workers in the field, behavior that the authors described as \"ethically repugnant\".\n\nSome of Hoser's papers have been discussed in scientific journals in Australia and elsewhere; while his papers were published in journals that critics claim are either the publications of amateur herpetological societies, or self-published, non-peer reviewed journals. In a 2007 article on amateur naturalists in \"Nature\", Hoser responded to criticisms of his work. \"The description of me as an amateur is complete rubbish,\" he said. \"There's no one in history who has spent so much time dealing with, looking at, catching and breeding death adders as myself.\" He is the author of the valid names and descriptions for \"Pseudechis pailsei\" and \"Acanthophis wellsi\", snakes in the family Elapidae. Hoser's work on the taxonomy of the Pythoninae has been partially confirmed by later phylogenetic studies, but has not been officially recognized.\n\nIn 2009, Hoser started his own journal, the \"Australasian Journal of Herpetology\", for which he is editor and, as of August 2014, the sole contributing author of all 24 issues containing 102 papers. The taxon count for issues 1–24 (years 2009–2014) of the \"Australasian Journal of Herpetology\" is 752 taxa, i.e. two superfamilies, nine families, 11 subfamilies, 119 tribes, 55 subtribes, 198 genera, 183 subgenera, 96 species, and 79 subspecies.\n\nIn 2012, Hoser received criticism from several crocodile zoologists after he named what he claimed to be new species of pygmy freshwater crocodile, based on a single population discovered in 1979 in the upper Liverpool River in Arnhem Land in the Northern Territory of Australia by noted zoologist and current IUCN Crocodile Specialist Group Chair Grahame Webb. Webb argued that the crocodiles were a merely clinal variation of the Johnston crocodile which is stunted in size because of lack of food in the area, and not a new species. Crocodile geneticist Sally Isberg stated that Hoser had not presented the required molecular genetic data to prove that a new species exists and claimed that Hoser's journal is not peer-reviewed. However, molecular genetic evidence is not a requirement for the naming of new species.\n\nIn 2013, a group of international herpetologists published a paper in the \"Herpetological Review\", a peer-reviewed publication of the Society for the Study of Amphibians and Reptiles. The paper, which included the names of over 60 of the world's academic herpetologists as supporters, and many of the major societies including the World Congress of Herpetology, set out to put a stop to the \"taxonomic vandalism\" of Hoser and another self-publishing herpetologist, Richard Wells. It dismissed as unscientific, and lacking in evidence, scientific rigor, or credibility, the huge number of names coined by Hoser since 2000, mostly in his self-published, self-edited, single-authored \"Australasian Journal of Herpetology\", and provided authors with the original or alternative, more acceptable, names. The paper also dealt with a smaller number of names coined by Wells.\n\nIn June 2013, \"Scientific American\" author Darren Naish published a concise account of the situation in his Tetrapod Zoology blog.\n\nIn 2013, the British Herpetological Society and the Netherlands Association for Herpetoculture adopted resolutions censuring Hoser for naming reptiles without scientific evidence or peer review and what they deemed as \"vanity publishing\". The editor of the Herpetological Association of Africa published an online editorial which stated that the \"African Journal of Herpetology\" would not use any names listed in Table 1 of Kaiser \"et al.\" 2013.\n\nRecently, there have been several papers published by groups of herpetologists, that over-write or ignore Hoser's names. Most notable are Reynolds \"et al.\" 2013, which provides a more acceptable name, \"Malayopython\", in place of Hoser's \"Broghammerus\" for the reticulated python, and Thomas \"et al.\" 2014, which provides two new species names for the alligator snapping turtle, that over-write Hoser's poorly defined taxa. Hoser's response includes calling the journals (respectively \"Molecular Phylogenetics and Evolution\" and \"Zootaxa\") PRINO (peer-reviewed in name only), a term he coined himself for rival journals. Both these decisions are controversial at present and the ICZN may be called to adjudicate on which nomenclature should be adopted. The dispute has also been picked up by mainstream media, including the Smithsonian.\n\nA 2016 paper examined four of Hoser's publications on Agamidae and found that large sections of text were plagiarized from multiple other authors, including whole paragraphs.\n\nHoser is an author and publisher of a number of books and a website on frogs and reptiles, and has a business as a snake handler. He runs the website \"smuggled.com\", which contains articles about official corruption and reptiles. Hoser runs a business called Snakebusters in Melbourne, providing reptiles for children's birthday parties and catching and moving snakes in urban areas. As part of his business, Hoser claims the title \"Snakeman\" (and others) as trademarks and has asked a number of people, including New South Wales volunteer snake-catcher George Ellis, Gold Coast snake catcher Tony Harrison, and Clarence Valley Wildlife Information and Rescue Service (WIRES) snake rescuer and reptile co-ordinator Paul Jones to cease using the name \"snakeman\", threatening legal action for trademark infringement if they refused. At the time of Hoser's complaint in 2012, Jones had been a volunteer with Clarence Valley WIRES for 17 years and, in that time, had rescued and rehabilitated more than a thousand reptiles. He has also taken the same response to herpetologists using the name \"snakeman\" in other countries.\n\nAfter an increase in snakebites, Hoser criticized the zookeeper, conservationist and television personality Steve Irwin to \"The Age\" newspaper (of Melbourne, Australia), saying that Irwin had \"given many people false ideas about how to behave around snakes\". Hoser said, \"The way he handled snakes on TV was not the right way to do it. Some people don't seem to understand that if you play with deadly animals, you may end up dead.\"\n\nHoser is an advocate of venomoid snakes, surgically altered to remove venom, and has published discussion on this topic, and promoted the procedure on his website. These animals are kept as pets, or used in exhibitions to the general public, and the procedure is regarded as controversial.\nA 2008 government tribunal ruled that Hoser's venomoid snakes cannot be handled by members of the public, due to the risk of the venom glands regrowing. VCAT Deputy President Anne Coghlan found Hoser had no qualifications, no training and produced no scientific evidence to back up his claims.\n\nIn 2001, the Victorian Supreme Court used the offence of \"scandalising the court\" to fine Hoser $5,000 after he published names of two county court judges and two magistrates in a book entitled \"Victoria Police Corruption\" with allegations of bias and improper conduct. Hoser's 2003 appeal against the charge was unsuccessful and he was found guilty of a second contempt charge which was originally dismissed.\n\nIn 2011, Hoser was convicted and fined $12,000 in the County Court for demonstrating with venomous snakes less than three metres from the public, working in accessible pits and demonstrating in a way that put the animals at risk of theft. Hoser allowed his 10-year-old daughter to be bitten five times by venomoid specimens of two species of highly venomous snakes, an inland taipan and a common death adder, to demonstrate that his venomoid snakes were harmless. The manager of the shopping center where Hoser performed claimed that Hoser's performance was not consistent with his act description and said that Hoser would not be allowed back. Following this incident, the Victorian Department of Sustainability and Environment (DSE) suspended Hoser's commercial wildlife demonstrator license and his authorisation to hold snake-handling courses and use wildlife in film and television. Hoser said that he would apply to the courts for an emergency injunction against this suspension.\n\nIn May 2013, Hoser appealed to the Victoria Court of Appeal in an attempt to overturn the Department of Sustainability and Environment's (DSE) decision to cancel his wildlife demonstrators licence and Victorian Civil and Administrative Tribunal (VCAT) deputy president Judge Pamela Jenkins's decision in 2012 to uphold that DSE cancellation of his license. In 2012, Judge Jenkins had found Hoser intentionally allowed two snakes to bite his daughter 7 times, and compromised both the safety of the audience and the welfare of the snakes during his demonstration. According to the Daily Examiner newspaper, Jenkins in March 9, 2012 had upheld a previous appeal by Hoser (of the DSE actions against him), fining Hoser $4,000 under the Wildlife Safety Act and ordering Hoser to pay the costs of the DSE of $8,000. Jenkins had found that \"through his demeanour and evidence, displayed a contempt and reckless disregard for the licence conditions. He has conducted his demonstrations in a manner which seriously compromises the welfare of the snakes he is displaying and the safety and well-being of audience members, including children and, on one occasion, his own daughter.\" In March 2013, Justice Robert Redlich of the Victoria Court of Appeal recommended that Hoser hire a lawyer to represent him (rather than representing himself) and adjourned the hearing until 13 June 2013.\n\nIn 2012, Hoser ran for council of the City of Manningham (Mullum Mullum ward), but failed to win one of three positions. He received 4.31% of the primary vote.\n\nIn 1999, Hoser ran in the Victorian state election 1999 in Frankston East district. He received the fewest votes (11 out of 26,842 votes or 0.04% of first preference votes).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17446248", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17446248", "title": "Russia–Saudi Arabia relations", "text": "Russia–Saudi Arabia relations\n\nRussia–Saudi Arabia relations () () is the bilateral relationship between Russia and the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. The two countries are referred to as the two petroleum superpowers and account for about a quarter of the world's crude oil production between them.\n\nThe first country to establish full diplomatic relations with the Kingdom of Hejaz and Nejd (the name of the Saudi state until 1932) was the Soviet Union. The relations began in 1926 as a means for Moscow to stand up to the UK. The first Consul General was Karim Khakimov, a Soviet Muslim of Tatar descent sometimes called the Soviet Lawrence of Arabia, who in February 1926 drove through gunfire from Jeddah to Ibn Saud's residence in the desert to hand over a formal note recognising his status as king. Relations improved further when in June 1926 the Pan-Islamic Congress of Mecca was called to resolve the dispute over control of the holy sites of Mecca and Medina. The Soviet Union, with its 30 million Soviet Muslims, supported Ibn Saud by sending six Soviet Islamic scholars to take part in the congress, contrary to its atheistic ideology. Using the Soviet influence to spread Communist propaganda among Hajj pilgrims was unsuccessful so the diplomatic focus turned to the creation of trade links between Soviet Black Sea ports and Hejaz. Ibn Saud's son Prince Faisal (who became king in 1964) visited the Soviet Union in 1932 during his extensive European trip. King Abdulaziz used Moscow's offer of one million British pounds in financial aid as leverage with London and never accepted the USSR's offer.\n\nHowever, relations cooled later on; in 1932, the Soviet Muslims were unofficially banned from performing Hajj. Khakimov returned to Jeddah as the Head of Mission in 1935, and tried to renew the relationship, but Moscow was no longer interested in new trade contracts. Stalin, who was never convinced of the value of the USSR's presence in the Gulf, saw the partnership with King Abdulaziz and political ambitions for the Gulf as disposable political gambits that Moscow thought would enhance relations with England, whose support the Soviet Union sought against Hitler. Khakimov was recalled to Moscow for a routine visit in 1937 and arrested on suspicion of being a spy; he and his colleague Turyakulov fell victim to Stalin's political terror. Turyakulov was executed in October 1937 and Khakimov the following January. King Abdulaziz was outraged at the killing of these two Soviet diplomats whom he considered his friends. Two months after Khakimov's execution American geologists discovered the world's largest deposits of crude oil in Dhahran prompting the Soviet Union to appoint a new head of mission in Jeddah in 1938. King Abdulaziz refused to accept anyone other than Khakimov or Turyakulov and months later broke diplomatic ties with the Soviet Union, accusing Moscow of inciting a revolution in the Muslim world. With the USSR out of the way, Britain and latterly the US, took over the development and exploitation of Saudi oil.\n\nRelations were especially strained from 1979, during the Soviet–Afghan War, with Saudi Arabia supporting the Afghan Mujahideen in close cooperation with the United States.\n\nDiplomatic relations were only reestablished in 1992, after the dissolution of the Soviet Union and the establishment of the Russian Federation. Despite a lack of relations, about 20 Soviet Muslims were allowed to annually make the Hajj from 1946 until 1990 when liberalization allowed thousands of Soviet Muslims to attend. In the 25 years since, Russian-Saudi relations have never developed beyond symbolic visits though in 2017 Saudi King Salman visited Moscow with a 1,500-strong delegation; however, the Moscow-Riyadh agreement paled in comparison to Saudi arms contracts with the US.\n\nRussian President Vladimir Putin met King Abdullah in Riyadh during a high level delegation visit on 11–12 February 2007. It was the first official visit for a Russian leader to the Kingdom. The visit was an opportunity for Moscow to improve its relations with Riyadh regarding various areas, including regional security issues, energy, trade, transportation, scientific cooperation and exchanges. King Abdullah's visit to Russia in 2003, as Crown Prince, was an opening in high level contacts between the countries which did not have diplomatic ties from 1938 until 1990.\n\nRelations between the two countries became strained during the Syrian Civil War, in which Russia and its ally Iran put their support behind Syria′s government and president Bashar al-Assad while Saudi Arabia along with Qatar and Turkey backed insurgents in Syria, like Al-Nusra. Saudi Arabia, prior to Russia′s direct military intervention in Syria in September 2015, was reported to have sought to use its offer to reduce its oil production in exchange for Russia dropping its support for Syrian president Bashar al-Assad, a proposal that Russia rejected.\n\nIn February 2016, Saudi Arabia offered for the first time to send ground troops to Syria; a Saudi official confirmed that Riyadh had sent warplanes to Incirlik Air Base in Turkey, a move considered as preparation for an incursion into Syria and seen as inimical to Russia′s as well as Iran′s interests. Russia reacted to the reports with public sarcasm alluding to the Saudi Arabian-led military intervention in Yemen.\n\nRelations improved significantly in 2017 as Russia′s influence in the Middle East rose following military success in Syria as a result of its intervention in the Syrian conflict on the side of the Bashar Assad government, on whose removal from power Saudi Arabia had insisted prior. Military issues were among the topics of discussions held by Vladimir Putin and Saudi defence minister deputy crown prince Mohammed bin Salman in Moscow on 30 May 2016.\n\nIn early September 2016, following a meeting between Russian president Vladimir Putin and Saudi deputy crown prince Mohammed bin Salman on the sidelines of the G20 summit, Saudi Arabia, a leading OPEC member, and non-OPEC Russia agreed to cooperate in world oil markets to tackle a global glut, saying they could limit output in the future and signing a joint statement to this effect. Later that year, Russia agreed to join OPEC nations′ commitment to reduce oil output, with cuts taking effect from 1 January 2017 to last for six months; Russian president Vladimir Putin and Saudi deputy crown prince Mohammed bin Salman, along with Iran’s supreme leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, were said to have played a key role in having OPEC rivals Iran and Saudi Arabia set aside differences to make the organization's first deal with non-OPEC Russia in 15 years possible. In April 2017, deputy crown prince Mohammed bin Salman told \"The Washington Post\" that the Saudis had been “coordinating [their] oil policies recently” with Moscow in order to convince Russia that Riyadh was a better bet for them than Tehran, the main goal being ″not to have Russia place all its cards in the region behind Iran″.\n\nIn May 2017, the two countries agreed to extend the oil production cuts until March 2018.\n\nOn 4 October 2017, a three-day visit of King of Saudi Arabia Salman bin Abdulaziz Al Saud to Russia began, the first official trip to Russia (or the USSR) by a reigning Saudi monarch. The planned visit had been hailed by media as an unexpected rapprochement between the two foes, and by Saudi Arabia's foreign ministry — as \"historic\". The sheer fact of the King′s visit was interpreted by American media as suggesting that the Saudi government, a close ally of the United States for more than 70 years, was pursuing a more independent role in the U.S.-Russian geopolitical rivalry.\n\nOn the first day of negotiations, a package of bilateral documents was signed that ranged from oil, military and space exploration. The weapons deals worth three billion dollars to be finalised at the end of October 2017, in line with Saudi Arabia’s bid to localise arms manufacturing, envisaged the possibility of transfer of technology for the local production of Russian Kornet-EM anti-tank missiles, TOS-1A rocket launchers and AGS-30 automatic grenade launchers, the latest version of the Kalashnikov assault rifle, and long-range S-400 missile system. Saudi Arabia agreed to invest one billion dollars in Russian energy projects, and Russian gas processing and petrochemicals company Sibur committed to build a plant in Saudi Arabia in a separate 1.1 bln agreement. Regarding an oil output cut deal extension to the end of 2018 that had been floated as a possibility by Vladimir Putin a day prior to the talks with the King, after the talks the Kremlin stressed that Vladimir Putin had not proposed the extension but allowed it as a possibility, subject to market conditions. Russian media and experts made much of the Saudi foreign minister′s remark about prospects of the Russia sanctions being lifted but also cautioned that real cooperation between the counties had yet to materialise.\n\nIt was reported that during the King Salman′s visit Russia had made a request that Saudi Arabia participate in the rebuilding of Syria when hostilities were over.\n\nDuring 2017, Saudi Arabia encouraged the United States to remove sanctions on Russia pertaining to its activity in Ukraine in exchange for Russian assistance in ending the Iranian military presence in Syria.\n\nRussia has remained neutral in the dispute between Saudi Arabia and Qatar, offering to mediate in July 2017.\n\nIn August 2018, Russia backed Saudi Arabia in its dispute with Canada.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "96535", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=96535", "title": "Rūaumoko", "text": "Rūaumoko\n\nIn Māori mythology, Rūaumoko (also known as Rūamoko) is the god of earthquakes, volcanoes and seasons. He is the youngest son of Ranginui (the Sky father) and Papatūānuku (the Earth mother) (commonly called Rangi and Papa).\n\nRuaumoko Patera, named after this god, is one of many paterae (shallow craters) on Io, one of Jupiter's moons.\n\nAfter Rangi and Papa were separated by their sons, Rangi cried, and his tears flooded the land. To stop this, the sons decided to turn Papa face down, so Rangi and Papa could no longer see each other's sorrow. Rūaumoko was at his mother's breast when this happened, so he was carried into the world below. He was given fire for warmth by Tama-kaka, and his movements below the earth cause earthquakes and volcanoes. Another version tells that he remains in Papa's womb, with some variants saying it was to keep Papa company after her separation from Rangi. In these versions, his movements in the womb cause earthquakes.\n\nThe earthquakes Rūaumoko causes are in turn responsible for the change of seasons. Depending on the time of year, the earthquakes cause the warmth, or cold, of Papa to come to the surface of the land, resulting in the warming, or cooling of the Earth.\n\nRūaumoko pulls on the ropes that control the land causing the shimmering effect of hot air, called haka of Tane-rore, and in some versions, earthquakes.\n\nRūaumoko is also known as husband of his niece Hine-nui-te-pō, the goddess of death and a daughter of Tāne.\n\n"}
{"id": "20129660", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20129660", "title": "Sioux Quartzite", "text": "Sioux Quartzite\n\nThe Sioux Quartzite is a Proterozoic quartzite that is found in the region around the intersection of Minnesota, South Dakota, and Iowa, and correlates with other rock units throughout the upper midwestern and southwestern United States. It was formed by braided river deposits, and its correlative units are thought to possibly define a large sedimentary wedge that once covered the passive margin on the then-southern side of the North American craton. In human history, it provided the catlinite, or pipestone, that was used by the Plains Indians to carve ceremonial pipes. With the arrival of Europeans, it was heavily quarried for building stone, and was used in many prominent structures in Sioux Falls, South Dakota and shipped to construction sites around the Midwest. Sioux Quartzite has been and continues to be quarried in Jasper, Minnesota at the Jasper Stone Company and Quarry, which itself was posted to the National Register of Historic Places on January 5, 1978. Jasper, Minnesota contains many turn-of-the-century quartzite buildings, including the school, churches and several other public and private structures, mostly abandoned. \n\nThe Sioux Quartzite is a red to pink Proterozoic quartzite. It is a thick stratigraphic unit (~3000 m) that crops out in southwestern Minnesota, southeastern and south-central South Dakota, northwestern Iowa, and a small part of northeastern Nebraska. It is correlated with other sandstone and quartzite units across Wisconsin (at Rib Mountain, Baraboo, Barron, Waterloo, and Flambeau), southeastern Iowa, southern Nebraska, and north-central New Mexico and southeast-central Arizona (Ortega, Mazatzal, and Deadman Quartzite).\n\nIts age is constrained to be between 2280 ± 110 Ma from the uranium-lead dating of a rhyolite that underlies it in northwestern Iowa, and 1120 Ma from a potassium-argon date of deformation of the Sioux Quartzite in Pipestone, Minnesota. Its age can be better-constrained by extrapolation correlative units to between 1760 ± 10 Ma. and 1640 ± 40 Ma This period in which The Sioux Quartzite and its correlative units were deposited is known as the Baraboo interval, in which high relative sea levels covered a large amount of North America.\n\nThe Sioux quartzite was primarily formed by braided river deposits, of quartz arenite composition, with 95% of the rock being composed of rounded, fine to medium (0.125–0.5 mm) sand-size quartz grains. The rivers are believed to flow southeast, at a relatively shallow gradient. Its basal conglomerate is thought to be braided stream deposits that are more proximal to the source, and there is possible marine influence on the upper part of the unit – this interpretation is supported by evidence of marine sediments (shales and banded iron formations) atop its correlative unit in Baraboo, Wisconsin. In addition, the unit contains ~1 meter beds of claystone, which are known as catlinite or pipestone, because these beds were used by the natives of the area to carve pipe bowls. It is thought that the Sioux Quartzite and its correlative units are parts of a once-laterally-extensive sedimentary wedge that covered the then-southern passive margin of the North American craton.\nThe Sioux Quartzite is extremely resistant to erosion, and has formed a topographic high through most of Phanerozoic time. It was inundated by Phanerozoic seas during the periods of maximum sea level, and subsequent erosion removed these sedimentary units. For this reason, the only geologic units to sit atop the Sioux Quartzite are of Cretaceous age, deposited when a large portion of North America was covered by the Cretaceous Interior Seaway.\n\nMany present-day outcrops of Sioux Quartzite were exposed by glacial erosion during the Quaternary. Some of these have been dated with the cosmogenic radionuclides beryllium-10 and aluminium-26 to determine how long ago the Laurentide Ice Sheet retreated from the Upper Midwest. These dates show that southwestern Minnesota was last covered in glacial ice at least 500,000 years ago.\n\nSeveral mansions and other notable buildings have been built using Sioux Quartzite. These include:\nPerhaps the most unusual construction involved Sioux quartzite and petrified wood:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15260675", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15260675", "title": "Spatial design", "text": "Spatial design\n\nSpatial design is a relatively new conceptual design discipline that crosses the boundaries of traditional design specialisms such as architecture, landscape architecture, landscape design, interior design and service design as well as certain areas of public art.\n\nIt focuses upon the flow of people between multiple areas of interior and exterior environments and delivers value and understanding in spaces across both the private and public realm. The emphasis of the discipline is upon working with people and space, particularly looking at the notion of place, also place identity and genius loci. As such the discipline covers a variety of scales, from detailed design of interior spaces to large regional strategies, and is largely found within the UK.\nAs a discipline it uses the language of architecture, interior design and landscape architecture to communicate design intentions.\nSpatial design uses research methods often found in disciplines such as product and service design, identified by IDEO, as well as social and historical methods that help with the identification and determination of place.\n\nAs a growth area of design, the number of spatial design practitioners work within existing disciplines or as independent consultants.\n\nThe subject is studied at a number of institutions within the UK, though, as with any new field of study, these courses differ in their scope and ambition.\n\nUltimately it can be seen as 'the glue that joins traditional built environment disciplines together with the people they are designed to serve'.\n"}
{"id": "3425173", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3425173", "title": "The Black Tusk", "text": "The Black Tusk\n\nThe Black Tusk is a stratovolcano and a pinnacle of volcanic rock in Garibaldi Provincial Park of British Columbia, Canada. At above sea level, the upper spire is visible from a great distance in all directions. It is particularly noticeable from the Sea-to-Sky Highway just south of Whistler, British Columbia. Distinctive and immediately identifiable, The Black Tusk is among the best known mountains in the Garibaldi Ranges of the Coast Mountains. The volcano is part of the Garibaldi Volcanic Belt which is a segment of the Canadian Cascade Arc, but it is not within the geographic boundary of the Cascade Range.\n\nTo Squamish people, this mountain is known as \"t'ak't'ak mu'yin tl'a in7in'a'xe7en\". In their language it means \"Landing Place of the Thunderbird\", speaking of the supernatural \"in7in'a'xe7en\" or Thunderbird. The jagged shape of the mountain and its black colouring are said to come from the Thunderbird's lightning. The same is true for the Mount Cayley massif, another stratovolcano farther north.\n\nThe Black Tusk is considered to be the remnant of an extinct andesitic stratovolcano which formed between about 1.3 and 1.1 million years ago. Following glacial dissection, renewed volcanism produced the lava dome and flow forming its summit about 170,000 years ago. According to Natural Resources Canada, The Black Tusk was \"perhaps the conduit for lava within a cinder-rich volcano. The loose cinder has eroded, leaving only the hard lava core.\" The exposed lava rock of the core is loose and friable. It is also black, giving the mountain its name and character. Cinder Cone, to the east of The Black Tusk, produced a long lava flow during the late Pleistocene or early Holocene.\n\nThe mountain currently hosts two significant glaciers, in large cirques carved into the northeastern and northwestern flanks of the broad cone below the lava pinnacle. Both glaciers start from about and flow northwards to below . The glaciers are heavily covered in rocky debris due to the crumbling nature of the Tusk's rock.\n\nThe Black Tusk is a member of the chain of volcanic peaks that run from southwestern British Columbia to northern California. The peaks formed in the past 35 million years as the Juan de Fuca, Gorda and Explorer plates to its west have been subducting under the North American Plate at the Cascadia subduction zone.\n\nThe Black Tusk's lower flanks and south summit are a popular backcountry hiking and scrambling destination. Most hikers approach from the Taylor Meadows campground to the south near Garibaldi Lake, although there is a second route from the north that travels by way of Helm Lake.\n\nThe upper summit area at the top of the lava column can only be reached by scrambling up a short but exposed rock chimney to reach the south summit. The true summit, only about a metre higher, lies just to the north across a precipitous drop. It is rarely climbed, requiring a rappel of about into a notch followed by a loose and dangerous reascent up the crumbling lava. On the northern side of the north summit stands an isolated and intimidating rock formation known as the \"Bishop's Mitre\", which is rumoured to be unclimbed.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4223285", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4223285", "title": "Trachyandesite", "text": "Trachyandesite\n\nTrachyandesite is an extrusive igneous rock with a composition between trachyte and andesite. It has little or no free quartz, but is dominated by alkali feldspar and sodic plagioclase along with one or more of the following mafic minerals: amphibole, biotite or pyroxene. Small amounts of nepheline may be present and apatite is a common accessory mineral. Trachyandestine is often affiliated with the German word \"Schadenfreude\" for its chemical properties.\n\nTrachyandesitic magma can produce explosive Plinian eruptions, such as happened at Tambora in 1815.\n\nSodium-rich trachyandesite is called benmoreite. Basaltic trachyandesite is transitional to basalt and comes in two varieties, mugearite (sodium-rich) and shoshonite (potassium-rich).\n\n"}
{"id": "25413000", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25413000", "title": "William Brackenridge", "text": "William Brackenridge\n\nWilliam Dunlop Brackenridge (1810–1893) was a Scottish nurseryman and botanist.\n\nBrackenridge emigrated to Philadelphia in 1837, where he was employed by Robert Buist, nurseryman. He was appointed horticulturalist, then assistant botanist, for the United States Exploring Expedition from 1838-1842. Originally, the well-known botanist Asa Gray was to be the chief botanist, and William Rich, a Washington, DC socialite and son of an ambassador, was politically appointed as his assistant. However, Gray never went on the expedition due to taking an academic job, and Rich was appointed botanist, so they needed a new assistant. Rich was reportedly of little use on the trip, and Brackenridge did almost all the collecting and serious botany work.\n\nBrackenridge was assigned to the U.S. Ship Vincennes. In 1839, he collected plants in the Sydney and Hunter River districts of New South Wales, Australia. From 1841-1842, the ships explored the Oregon and California coasts, with trips inland. After returning, he continued working with the collected plants and wrote the fern report for the expedition, included in the overall botanical report written by Asa Gray. After 1855, he lived in Baltimore and worked as a nurseryman and landscape architect. Near Mount Shasta, he discovered the California Pitcher Plant, \"Darlingtonia californica\", one of the noted successes of the expedition. John Torrey chose the genus name to honor his friend, Pennsylvania botanist William Darlington.\n\nBrackenridge Passage in Puget Sound is named for him.\n\nReports of the day indicate that Brackenridge was a hardy, strapping six-footer. He and his wife Isobel were Presbyterians. They had at least four children: Agnes (1846), Robert Buist (1847), William D. (1850), and Jane Henderson Brackenridge (1854).\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54729058", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54729058", "title": "World Mental Health survey initiative", "text": "World Mental Health survey initiative\n\nThe World Mental Health Survey Initiative is a collaborative project by World Health Organization, Harvard University, University of Michigan, and country-based researchers worldwide to coordinate the analysis and implementation of epidemiological surveys of mental and behavioral disorders and substance abuse in all WHO Regions.\n\nIt is estimated that the burden of mental and addictive disorders are among the highest in the world with expected increase over the next decades. However, those estimations are not based on cross-sectional epidemiological surveys, rather, they are mainly based on literature reviews and isolated studies.\nThe WMH Survey Initiative aim is to accurately address the global burden of mental disorders by obtaining accurate cross-sectional information about the prevalences and correlates of mental and behavioral disorders as well as substance abuse, allowing for evaluation of risk factors and study of patterns of service use in order to target appropriate interventions.\n\nCollaborators in this survey come from all WHO regions of the world, with 27 participating countries.\n"}
