{"id": "9288101", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9288101", "title": "Abortion in Israel", "text": "Abortion in Israel\n\nAbortion in Israel is permitted when determined by a termination committee under various circumstances, with the vast majority of cases being approved . The rate of abortion in Israel has steadily declined since 1988. Compared to the world, abortion rates in Israel are moderate. According to government data, in Israel, abortion rates in 2014 are 9.7 per 1,000 women of childbearing age, lower than England (16.2) and the United States (13.2).\n\nAbortion in Israel had been illegal prior to 1977. It became legal subject to termination committee approval under the penal code of 1978. Prior to 2014, however, approval for an abortion in Israel by a termination committee was given under more limited circumstances, such as if the woman is unmarried, because of age (if the woman is under the age of 18 - the legal marriage age in Israel - or over the age of 40), the pregnancy was conceived under illegal circumstances (rape, statutory rape, etc.) or an incestuous relationship, birth defects, risk of health to the mother, and life of the mother. Subsequent to 2014, abortion up to the age of 33 can be provided for under the nationally funded health basket.\nAccording to the Israel Central Bureau of Statistics report from 2004, in 2003, most abortion requests were granted, with 19,500 legal abortions performed and 200 requests for abortion denied. Reasons for termination went as follows: The woman was unmarried (42%), because of illegal circumstances (11%), health risks to the woman (about 20%), age of the woman (11%), and fetal birth defects (about 17%). Women who would not qualify for an abortion under the statutory scheme may seek an abortion at a private clinic.\n\nIt was reported in 2012 that about half of all abortions in Israel were performed in private clinics, i. e., without committee approval. Women who undergo such an abortion do not face criminal penalties, but physicians who perform them face a fine or up to five years' imprisonment; however, there have been no known prosecutions of physicians for performing non-committee-approved abortions. It was also reported in 2007 and 2011 that about 40,000 abortions take place in Israel every year, about half of them committee approved.\n\nClauses 312-321 of the 1977 penal code limit the circumstances when an abortion is legal in Israel. Abortions must be approved by a termination committee. Abortions can only be performed by licensed gynecologists in recognized medical facilities that are specifically and publicly recognized as a provider of abortions. However, the Israeli Cabinet updated the 1977 law in 2014 to allow abortion on demand for nearly every woman in the country seeking an abortion.\n\nUnder a 1977 abortion law, a termination committee can approve an abortion, under sub-section 316a, in the following circumstances:\n\n\nPreviously, cases where the woman is between the ages of 20-33, and/or was granted an abortion due to the baby having been conceived under illegal circumstances or incest, the fetus had a serious physical or mental defect, the mother was unmarried, or the mother's health was in danger, the state pays for the abortion. However, the law was modified in 2014 to allow a free state-funded \"health basket\" for any woman seeking an abortion. Women who get pregnant while serving in the IDF are entitled to free, state-funded abortion.\n\nIn practice, most requests for abortion that qualify for the above are granted, and leniency is shown especially under the clause for emotional or psychological damage to the pregnant woman. The committees approve 98% of requests.\n\nThere are 41 termination committees operating in public or private hospitals across Israel. These committees consist of three members, two of which are licensed physicians, and one a social worker. Of the two physicians, one must be an expert on obstetrics and gynaecology, and the other one either OB/GYN, internal medicine, psychiatry, family medicine, or public health. At least one member must be a woman. Six separate committees consider abortion requests when the fetus is beyond 24 weeks old.\n\nThere is an abortion debate in Israel, although it is sidelined by more publicized and controversial issues. The debate as to the morality of abortion is antecedent to the debate about separation of religion and state in the context of Israel as a Jewish State and a democratic.\n\nOrthodox Jewish organizations, including political parties, strongly oppose abortion because Jewish law views abortion as a (lesser) form of murder. Political parties that champion this view include Shas, a Sephardic Haredi party; United Torah Judaism, an Ashkenazi Haredi party; and HaBayit HaYehudi (Jewish Home), a Religious Zionist party. A study published in 2001 found that opposition to abortion among Israelis was correlated to strong religious beliefs - particularly Orthodox Jewish beliefs - below-average income, larger family size, and identification with right-wing politics.\n\nThe left-wing party Meretz argues in favor of legalized abortion for reasons of personal liberty. In 2006, MK Zehava Gal-On of Meretz proposed a bill that would eliminate the termination committees, effectively decriminalizing unrestricted abortion. Gal-On argued that women with financial means can have abortions in private clinics, bypassing the committee and therefore gaining rights based on their wealth. The bill was rejected by a wide margin.\n\nWhen the relevant section of the penal code was originally written, it contained a \"social clause\" permitting women to seek abortions for social reasons, such as economic distress. The clause was withdrawn in 1980 under the initiative of the Orthodox Jewish parties (see Shas, United Torah Judaism, and National Religious Party).\n\nThis clause is still under debate in Israel. In 2004, MK Reshef Chen of Shinui submitted an addendum to reinstate the clause, arguing that under present circumstances, women with financial problems must lie to the termination committee to obtain approval under the emotional or psychological damage clause, and that \"no advanced country compels its citizens to lie in order to preserve religious, chauvinistic, patronizing archaic values\". Women's organizations such as Naamat supported the proposal.\n\nWomen's organizations such as Naamat and Shdulat HaNashim (women's lobby) argue in favor for feminist, pro-choice reasons, such as reproductive rights.\n\nEfrat is a religious organization that lobbies against abortions, as well as offering financial support to women who are considering abortion for economic reasons. Efrat's campaign includes stickers with the slogan, \"Don't abort me\" (). Be'ad Chaim is a Messianic Christian anti-abortion non-profit association. Another organization which provides financial support and counseling to women considering abortion is Just One Life (J.O.L.) - which in Hebrew is known as Nefesh Achat B'Yisrael.\n\n"}
{"id": "53296975", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53296975", "title": "Anne Ferguson (physician)", "text": "Anne Ferguson (physician)\n\nAnne Ferguson (26 July 1941 – 21 December 1998) was a Scottish physician, clinical researcher and expert in inflammatory bowel disease. She was considered one of the most distinguished gastroenterologists in Britain.\n\nAnne Glen was born in Glasgow in 1941 to Monica and John Glen. She was educated at Notre Dame High School and the University of Glasgow, graduating with a first class honours BSc in physiology in 1961, followed in 1964 with a MBChB with honours. She won the Brunton Medal for the most distinguished graduate in medicine at the University.\n\nIn 1969, after completing her medical training, she became a lecturer at the Department of Bacteriology and Immunology in Glasgow's Western Infirmary teaching hospital. While working at the hospital she carried out research on the role of intra-epithelial lymphocytes in intestinal immunity, receiving her PhD in 1974.\n\nIn 1975 she was appointed as a Senior Lecturer at the University of Edinburgh, also becoming a consultant at the Gastrointestinal Unit at the Western General Hospital in Edinburgh. In 1987 she was appointed to a personal professorship in gastroenterology. From 1991 to 1994 she was head of the Department of Medicine at the University.\n\nShe published more than 250 papers in peer-reviewed academic journals, published three books and contributed chapters to many other books.\n\nHer research provided new insights into the mechanisms responsible for Crohn's and coeliac diseases which led to significant advances in the therapy of these conditions. She also carried out significant research on oral tolerance.\n\nShe served on the Committee on Safety of Medicines, the Medical Research Council Gene Therapy Advisory Board, and the Spongiform Encephalopathy Advisory Committee. At the time of her death she was President of the Society for Mucosal Immunology. She was a consultant proving advice and training to the International Centre for Diarrhoeal Disease Research in Bangladesh.\n\nIn 1979 Ferguson was awarded the Sir Francis Avery Jones research medal of the British Society of Gastroenterology, the highest research award that the national gastroenterology body confers on its researchers.\n\nSuch was the regard for her research, clinical expertise and teaching that she received fellowships from the Royal Colleges of Physicians of Glasgow (1975), London (1977) and Edinburgh (1981). She also received a fellowship from the Royal College of Pathologists in 1984. In 1990 she became a Fellow of the Royal Society of Edinburgh.\n\nIn 1966 she married John Ferguson, a sociology lecturer at the University of Strathclyde, and together they adopted two children, a girl and a boy. John Ferguson died of cancer in 1989. She married Professor Gerald Collee, Emeritus Professor of Medical Microbiology at the University of Edinburgh in 1995.\n\nIn her youth Ferguson represented the University of Glasgow in athletics as a middle-distance runner. She was also on the Scottish women's basketball team. She enjoyed hill walking and mountaineering, and once visited the Himalayas with her first husband.\n\nFerguson died of pancreatic cancer in Edinburgh on 21 December 1998.\n"}
{"id": "39463327", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39463327", "title": "Anxiotropic", "text": "Anxiotropic\n\nAn anxiotropic agent is one that modifies anxiety, a human emotion that has homologous processes in animals. In psychopharmacology anxiotropic agents consist of two categories of psychoactive drugs: anxiolytics that reduce anxiety and may be used therapeutically, and anxiogenic compounds that increase anxiety.\n\nMost anxiolytic agents are minor tranquilizers, the founding compound of which was meprobamate, marketed in the United States as Miltown. Meprobamate was eventually eclipsed by the benzodiazepines. The target of both categories of anxiotropic compounds is the GABAA receptor.\n\nGlobally, the two most widely used psychoactive drugs are anxiotropic agents: ethanol, an anxiolytic, and caffeine, an anxiogenic. While intake of both ethanol and caffeine has been shown to exert an anxiolytic effect, their withdrawal is associated with anxiogenic effects.\n"}
{"id": "51398445", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51398445", "title": "Australian Rheumatology Association", "text": "Australian Rheumatology Association\n\nThe Australian Rheumatology Association is an association of rheumatologists in Australia. It is a specialty society of the Royal Australasian College of Physicians and a member of the Asia Pacific League of Associations for Rheumatology.\n"}
{"id": "1337216", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1337216", "title": "Autism Awareness Campaign UK", "text": "Autism Awareness Campaign UK\n\nThe Autism Awareness Campaign – United Kingdom was launched in 2000 by British parents and carers Ivan Corea and his wife Charika Corea in response to the autism diagnosis of their son, Charin.\n\nAccording to their website, Autism Awareness Campaign – United Kingdom was started in 2000 \"to campaign on behalf of parents, carers, children and adults with autism and Asperger's syndrome, for better public services in health, education, specialist speech therapy and respite care; for independent research into the causes of autism; for greater public awareness on Autism and Asperger's Syndrome\", as well as other areas where they believe there is a shortfall in public-service provision. They have lobbied for greater \"awareness\" of the condition and for independent research on the causes of autism.\n\n\nThe Autism Awareness Campaign of 2002 initiated debates in the Parliament of the UK and the Scottish Parliament for Autism Awareness Year, supported by 800 UK organisations including the British Institute of Brain Injured Children, The Disabilities Trust, Autism London and the National Autistic Society. A major conference on autism was held at the King's Fund in London and the first ever service for autism was launched in 2002 by the couple who initiated Autism Sunday - it was held at St Paul's Cathedral. Autism Sunday is now a massive worldwide event, celebrated in many countries.\n\nThe Autism Awareness Campaign helped raise \"awareness\" about the condition in 2007 in the British House of Commons when Lee Scott, MP for Ilford North, brought a debate on autistic children.\n\nIvan Corea met with the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom, Tony Blair and Lee Scott MP in April 2007. He presented the Prime Minister with a report calling for a national strategy on autism and a 10-year plan of action in the UK. The call for an urgent review on autism services was supported by leading British charities and community organisations including faith communities. Parliamentarians signed an early day motion on autism (EDM 1359) backing the call for a national strategy on autism and change in policy for people with autism and Asperger syndrome. Ivan Corea met with the British Prime Minister-in-Waiting, Gordon Brown in June 2007 to urge him to launch the national strategy and 10-year plan on autism, particularly in building state-of-the-art \"autism schools\".\n\nWorld Autism Awareness Day\n\nThe Autism Awareness Campaign UK were involved in the first United Nations World Autism Awareness Day, declared by the UN General Assembly on Wednesday 2 April 2008 on the recommendation of the State of Qatar.\n\nThe campaign called on the United Nations Secretary-General, Ban Ki-moon to launch a world autism strategy. A CNN interview with presenter Max Foster was televised to mark World Autism Awareness Day on 2 April 2008. International coverage about the Autism Awareness Campaign UK was also given on Associated Press and the campaigners received national coverage in the United Kingdom.\n\nThe campaigners released a film to mark the United Nations World Autism Awareness Day with British peer the Baroness Uddin in the House of Lords.Open Every Door, written by the award winning Sri Lanka-born singer and songwriter, Nimal Mendis, was aired on the UN World Autism Awareness Day by CNN.\n\nLondon 2012 Olympic and Paralympic bid\nLord Coe appointed Ivan Corea as a London 2012 Olympic bid Ambassador; the Autism Awareness Campaign UK were fully involved with the London 2012 Olympic and Paralympic bid.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47135843", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47135843", "title": "Bien-Air Medical Technologies", "text": "Bien-Air Medical Technologies\n\nBien-Air Medical Technologies develops, manufactures, and markets instrumentation devices and systems across multiple dental and surgery specialities. The company operates eight subsidiaries from its Bienne, Switzerland headquarters and is backed by a network of distributors, agents, and after-sales centers on all five continents.\n\nBien-Air was founded by David Mosimann in 1959 to develop medical instruments that would improve work for medical practitioners. They developed their first air-turbine dental drill in 1965. The first all electric dental drill in was developed by Bien-Air in 1970.\n"}
{"id": "3172539", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3172539", "title": "Children's Oncology Group", "text": "Children's Oncology Group\n\nThe Children’s Oncology Group (COG), a clinical trials group supported by the National Cancer Institute (NCI), is the world’s largest organization devoted exclusively to pediatric cancer research. The COG conducts a spectrum of clinical research and translational research trials for infants, children, adolescents, and young adults with cancer.\n\nAlmost all centers that treat children with cancer in the US and Canada are part of the COG, with more than 200 centers in the United States, Canada, Switzerland, the Netherlands, Australia, and New Zealand. The member institutions have multidisciplinary teams consisting of physicians, research scientists, nurses, psychologists, pharmacists and other specialists.\n\nThe group, with more than 7,500 experts worldwide, has nearly 100 active clinical-translational trials open at any given time. These trials include treatment for many types of childhood cancers, studies aimed at determining the underlying biology of these diseases, and trials involving new and emerging treatments, supportive care, and survivorship. More than 90% of 13,500 children and adolescents diagnosed with cancer each year in the United States are cared for at Children’s Oncology Group member institutions.\n\nThe cooperative group system for clinical research began in 1955 with a consortium focused on childhood cancer research. By the mid-1990s, there were nine groups funded by the NCI to conduct research in adults with cancer, and four focused on childhood cancer research. Two groups, the Children's Cancer Study Group (CCG) and the Pediatric Oncology Group (POG) studied a diverse array of childhood cancers, while two others, the Intergroup Rhabdomyosarcoma Study Group (IRSG) and the National Wilms Tumor Study Group (NWTS) were specific for particular cancers. In 2000, the four pediatric groups merged to create the Children's Oncology Group. Since then, its researchers have published well over one thousand research manuscripts in peer-reviewed scientific journals COG has enrolled more children with cancer on clinical trials than any other organization in the world.\n\nThe group's research studies encompass hematologic malignancies, solid tumors, central nervous system tumors, and rare cancers. Hematologic malignancies include the most common childhood cancer, acute lymphoblastic leukemia, as well as acute myeloid leukemia, non-Hodgkin lymphoma, and Hodgkin lymphoma. Pediatric solid tumors studied include neuroblastoma, tumors of bone (Ewing sarcoma, osteosarcoma), tumors of the kidney (Wilms' tumor), rhabdomyosarcoma and other soft tissue sarcomas. Central nervous system (brain) tumors are the second most common form of childhood cancer. COG conducts research in children with medulloblastoma, ependymoma, brainstem gliomas, low and high-grade gliomas, and germ cell tumors. The large multi-site structure of COG also allows it to conduct research into very rare childhood cancer including retinoblastoma, hepatoblastoma, and other tumors. \n\nIn addition to disease specific research, COG conducts studies in developmental therapeutics (new cancer drug development), supportive care, epidemiology, stem cell transplantation, behavioral sciences and survivorship.\n\nThe COG is primarily funded by the NCI, the primary or Chair’s grant supports research operations and funds personnel at member institutions conducting research, and the statistics and data center grant supports these essential research functions. Other key grants include the COG Phase 1 Consortium grant, supporting 21 COG institutions charged with early phase clinical trials, and the Community Cancer Oncology Program (CCOP) grant. These is additional funding from other granting agencies and from philanthropic sources (cog-foundation.org). \n\n"}
{"id": "37794921", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37794921", "title": "Cigarette packets in Australia", "text": "Cigarette packets in Australia\n\nCigarette packets in Australia have undergone significant changes. Since 1 December 2012 all forms of branding logos, colours, and promotional texts are banned from cigarette pack designs. In turn they were replaced with drab dark brown packets (Pantone 448 C) and graphic images of smoking-related images to try to reduce the smoking population of Australia to 10% by 2018 from 15% in 2012.\n\n, Australia, France, the United Kingdom, Ireland, Norway, New Zealand and Hungary are the only countries to have plain packaging cigarette packs.\n\nIn 1973, Australia's first health warning on cigarette packages appeared with the simple message 'Warning—Smoking is a health hazard'. Since 1 March 2006, graphic images depicting the effects of smoking cigarettes have been required to be displayed on cigarette packets. Warnings must cover 30% of the front and 90% of the back of the box. The 10% of the back not occupied by a warning is used for the message \"Sale to underage persons prohibited\".\n\nSince 1 December 2012 all forms of branding logos, colours, and promotional texts are banned from cigarette pack designs. The requirement is for plain cigarette packaging showing only brand name and health warning messages. Australia was the first country to have plain packaging cigarette packs. At the same time the plain packets were introduced, the size of the anti-smoking images became larger, so the two effects are difficult to separate.\n\nCanada was the first country to use graphic pictures in conjunction with written warnings on cigarette packages, with the legislation coming in 2000.\n\nFollowing Australia's lead a number of other countries also require standardized packaging including France (applies to cigarettes sold after 1 January 2017), United Kingdom (21 May 2017), New Zealand (6 June 2018), Norway (1 July 2018), Ireland (30 September 2018) and Hungary (20 May 2019).\n\nAs a result of the enactment of the December 2015 plain tobacco packaging bill, on 1 January 2017 France became the second country in the world, after Australia, and the first in the European Union to require tobacco products to be sold in plain packaging.\n\nIn March 2015, the House of Commons voted 367–113 in favour of plain cigarette packaging in the United Kingdom. The sale of plain packs is compulsory since 21 May 2017.\n\nFor cigarette packets, warnings include:\n\n\n\nWith each warning is an accompanying graphic, and detailed information on the back of the packet. In addition, cigar and loose tobacco packets show other, slightly altered warnings. These warnings target the misconception that alternative, non-cigarette tobacco products are less harmful.\n\nThere have been calls to expand the range of warnings to reflect current research into the effects of smoking, such as impacts on fertility.\n\nAustralian cigarette packaging laws also prohibit the use of terms such as 'light', 'mild', 'extra mild', etc. The three major Australian tobacco manufacturers agreed to stop using these terms, after investigation of complaints of misleading and deceptive terms were made to the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) in 2005. This has assisted in counteracting the belief that some cigarette varieties are less harmful than others. To the same effect, while the carbon monoxide, nicotine and tar content of particular brands of cigarettes used to be mandated, the display and/or advertisement these figures is now prohibited under the government's \"All Cigarettes are Toxic\" campaign.\n\nAlthough there has been no concrete proof as of 2014 that plain packaging has affected cigarette purchases in Australia, there has been a significant increase of calls to quitline in some states that would suggest plain packaging might encourage smokers to attempt or at least seek help with quitting smoking.\n"}
{"id": "765782", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=765782", "title": "Circumcision controversies", "text": "Circumcision controversies\n\nMale circumcision has often been, and remains, the subject of controversy on a number of grounds—religious, ethical, sexual, and medical.\n\nIn Classical and Hellenistic civilization, Ancient Greeks and Romans posed great value on the beauty of nature, physical integrity, aesthetics, harmonious bodies and nudity, including the foreskin (see also Ancient Greek art), and were opposed to all forms of genital mutilation, including circumcision—an opposition inherited by the canon and secular legal systems of the Christian West and East that lasted at least through to the Middle Ages, according to Hodges. Traditional branches of Judaism and Islam still advocate male circumcision as a religious obligation.\n\nThe ethics of circumcision are controversial. During the late 19th and early 20th centuries, the primary justification for circumcision was to prevent masturbation and intentionally reduce male sexual pleasure, which was believed to cause a wide range of medical problems. Modern proponents argue that circumcision reduces the risks of a range of infections and diseases as well as conferring sexual benefits. By contrast, opponents, particularly of infant circumcision, often question its utility and effectiveness in preventing diseases, and object to subjecting newborn boys, without their consent, to a procedure they consider to have debatable benefits, significant risks and a potentially negative impact on general health and later sexual enjoyment.\n\nThe Book of Genesis explains circumcision as a covenant with God given to Abraham, but some scholars reject the historicity of these accounts and look elsewhere for the origin of Jewish circumcision. One explanation, dating from Herodotus, is that the custom was acquired from the Egyptians, possibly during the period of enslavement. A competing hypothesis, based on linguistic/ethnographic work begun in the 19th century, suggests circumcision was a common tribal custom among Semitic tribes (Jews, Arabs, and Phoenicians).\n\nThe Jewish and Islamic traditions both see circumcision as a way to distinguish a group from its neighbours. The Bible records \"uncircumcised\" being used as a derogatory reference for opponents and Jewish victory in battle that culminated in mass post-mortem circumcision, to provide an account of the number of enemy casualties. Jews were also required to circumcise all household members, including slaves – a practice that would later put them into collision with Roman and Christian law (see below).\n\nIn 167 BCE Judea was part of the Seleucid Empire. Its ruler, Antiochus IV Epiphanes (175–165 BCE), smarting from a defeat in a war against Ptolemaic Egypt, banned traditional Jewish religious practices, and attempted to forcibly let the Jews accept Hellenistic culture. Throughout the country Jews were ordered, with the threat of execution, to sacrifice pigs to Greek gods (the normal practice in the Ancient Greek religion), desecrate the Shabbat, eat unkosher animals (especially pork), and relinquish their Jewish scriptures. Antiochus' decree also outlawed Jewish circumcision, and parents who violated his order were hanged along with their infants. According to Tacitus, as quoted by Hodges, Antiochus \"endeavoured to abolish Jewish superstition and to introduce Greek civilization.\" According to rabbinical accounts, he desecrated the Second Temple of \nJerusalem by placing a statue of Olympian Zeus on the altar of the Temple; this incident is also reported by the biblical \"Book of Daniel\", where the author refers to the statue of the Greek god inside the Temple as \"Abomination of desolation\". Antiochus' decrees and vituperation of Judaism motivated the Maccabean Revolt; the Maccabees reacted violently against the forced Hellenization of Judea, destroyed pagan altars in the villages, circumcised boys and forced Hellenized Jews into outlawry. The revolt ended in the re-establishment of a short-lived independent Jewish kingdom under the Hasmoneans, until it turned into a client state of the Roman Republic under the reign of Herod the Great (37-4 BCE).\n\nClassical, Hellenistic, and Roman culture found circumcision to be cruel and repulsive. In the Roman Empire, circumcision was regarded as a barbaric and disgusting custom. The consul Titus Flavius Clemens was condemned to death by the Roman Senate in 95 CE for, according to the Talmud, circumcising himself and converting to Judaism. The emperor Hadrian (117-138) forbade circumcision. Overall, the rite of circumcision was especially execrable in Classical civilization, also because it was the custom to spend an hour a day or so exercising nude in the \"gymnasium\" and in Roman baths, therefore Jewish men did not want to be seen in public deprived of their foreskins.\n\nAs for the anti-circumcision law passed by Hadrian, it is considered by many to be, together with his decision to build a Roman temple upon the ruins of the Second Temple and dedicate it to Jupiter, one of the main causes of the Bar Kokhba revolt (132-135 CE), which was brutally crushed; according to Cassius Dio, 580,000 Jews were killed, and 50 fortified towns and 985 villages razed. He claimed that \"Many Romans, moreover, perished in this war. Therefore, Hadrian, in writing to the Senate, did not employ the opening phrase commonly affected by the emperors: 'If you and your children are in health, it is well; I and the army are in health.'\" Because of the great loss of life in the war, even though Hadrian was victorious, he refused a triumph.\n\nHadrian's policy after the rebellion reflected an attempt to root out Judaism: he enacted a ban on circumcision, all Jews were forbidden to enter Jerusalem upon pain of death, and the city was renamed \"Aelia Capitolina\", while Judea was renamed \"Syria Palaestina\". Around 140, his successor Antoninus Pius (138-161 CE) exempted Jews who circumcised their sons, though not their servants or slaves, from the decree against circumcision. Jewish nationalists' (Pharisees and Zealots) response to the decrees also took a more moderate form: circumcisions were secretly performed, even on dead Jews.\n\nHowever, there were also many Jews, known as \"Hellenizers\", that viewed Hellenization and social integration of the Jewish people in the Greco-Roman world favourably, and pursued a completely different approach: accepting the Emperor's decrees and even making efforts to restore their foreskins to better assimilate into Hellenistic society. The latter approach was common during the reign of Antiochus, and again under Roman rule. The foreskin was restored by one of two methods, that were later revived in the late 20th century; both were described in detail by the Greek physician Aulus Cornelius Celsus in his comprehensive encyclopedic work \"De Medicina\", written during the reign of Tiberius (14-37 CE). The surgical method involved freeing the skin covering the penis by dissection, and then pulling it forward over the glans; he also described a simpler surgical technique used on men whose prepuce is naturally insufficient to cover their glans. The second approach, known as \"epispasm\", was nonsurgical: a restoration device called \"Pondus Judaeus\" (\"Jewish burden\"), a special weight made of bronze, copper, or leather, was affixed to the penis, pulling its skin downward. Overtime, a new foreskin was generated, or a short prepuce was lengthened, by means of tissue expansion. Martial also mentioned the instrument in \"Epigrammaton\" (book 7:35).\n\nThe Apostle Paul referred to these practices in his letters, saying: \"Was a man already circumcised when he was called? He should not become uncircumcised.\" But he also explicitly denounced the forcing of circumcision upon non-Jews, rejecting and condemning those Judaizers who stipulated the ritual to Gentile Christians, labelling such advocates as \"false brothers\" (see below). In the mid-2nd century Rabbinical Jewish leaders introduced a radical method of circumcision, the \"periah\", that left the glans totally uncovered, making it almost impossible to restore the foreskin.\n\nUnder the first Christian emperor, Constantine, the two rescripts of Antoninus on circumcision were re-enacted and again in the 6th century under Justinian. These restrictions on circumcision made their way into both secular and Canon law and \"at least through the Middle Ages, preserved and enhanced laws banning Hebrews from circumcising non-Hebrews and banning Christians or slaves of any religious affiliation from undergoing circumcision for any reason.\"\n\nThere was debate in the early Church on whether Gentiles needed to be circumcised in order to join the communities; some Jewish Christians insisted that it was necessary. The Council of Jerusalem (50 CE) decreed that circumcision was not a requirement for Gentiles, which became known as the \"Apostolic Decree\". This was one of the first acts differentiating Early Christianity from Judaism. Around 140 CE, the Tannaim made circumcision requirements stricter, in order to make the procedure irreversible.\n\nIn the early 7th century, Muhammad welded together many Semitic tribes of the Arabian peninsula into the kernel of a rapidly expanding Muslim movement. The one thing that can be said with some certainty is that male and female circumcision was already well established among these tribes, and probably had been for more than a thousand years, most likely as a fertility rite. Herodotus had noticed the practice among various Semite nations in the 5th century BCE, and Josephus had specifically mentioned circumcision as a tradition among Arabs in the 1st century CE. There are some narrations attributed to Muhammad in which he approves of female circumcision; however, many scholars believe that these narrations are weak and lack authenticity.\n\nThe practice of circumcision is sometimes characterized as a part of \"fitrah\" as mentioned in the \"hadith\" (Prophetic narrations).\n\nDuring the nineteenth and twentieth centuries many Jewish reformers, doctors, and physicians in Central and Eastern Europe proposed to replace circumcision with a symbolic ceremony, while others sought to ban or abolish circumcision entirely, as it was perceived as a dangerous, barbaric and pagan ritual of genital mutilation that could transmit infectious diseases to newborns. The first formal objection to circumcision within Judaism occurred in 1843 in Frankfurt. The Society for the Friends of Reform, a group that criticized traditional Jewish practices, said that brit milah was not a mitzvah but an outworn legacy from Israel's earlier phases, an obsolete throwback to primitive religion. With the expanding role of medicine came further opposition; certain aspects of Jewish circumcision such as \"periah\" and \"metzitzah\" (drawing the blood from the circumcision wound through sucking or a cloth) were deemed unhygienic and dangerous for the newborns. Later evidence that syphilis and tuberculosis – two of the most feared infectious diseases in the 19th century – were spread by mohels, caused various rabbis to advocate \"metzitzah\" to be done using a sponge or a tube. Among the secular, non-observant Jews that chose to not circumcise their sons and keep them intact there was also Theodor Herzl.\n\nEphron reports that non-Jews and also some Jewish reformers in early 19th-century Germany had criticized ritual circumcision as \"barbaric\" and that Jewish doctors responded to these criticisms with defences of the ritual or proposals for modification or reform. By the late 19th century some German Jewish doctors defended circumcision by claiming it had health advantages. Today the Rabbinical Council of America, the largest group of Modern Orthodox rabbis, endorses using a glass tube as a substitute of \"metzitzah\".\n\nHowever, a growing number of contemporary Jews and Intactivist Jewish groups in the United States, United Kingdom and Israel, both secular and religious, started to question overall long-term effects, psychological and psychophysical consequences of trauma caused by circumcision on Jewish children, and choose not to circumcise their sons. They are assisted by a small number of Reform, Liberal, and Reconstructionist rabbis, and have developed a welcoming ceremony that they call the \"Brit shalom\" (\"Covenant [of] Peace\") for such children, also accepted by Humanistic Judaism.\n\nThomas Aquinas in his \"Summa Theologica\" questioned why, if under Jewish doctrine circumcision removed original sin, Jesus was circumcised – as Jesus had no original sin. Steve Jones suggests there is a theological tradition that Jesus regained his foreskin at the Ascension. \"Had he failed to do so, the Saved would themselves have to be operated upon in Paradise so as not to be more perfect than their Saviour.\"\n\nThe Jews were expelled from England by Edward I in 1290, ostensibly over social tensions concerning usury. But the public imagination had been gripped by blood libel since at least the 12th century: \"So pervasive was the belief that Jews circumcised their victims ... that Menasseh ben Israil, the Dutch Rabbi who sought from Cromwell the readmission of the Jews in 1656, had to dwell at considerable length in his \"Vindiciae Judaeorum\" at refuting the claim.\"\n\nIn 15th-century Spain, most Jews and Muslims were expelled and the Spanish Inquisition monitored and prosecuted converts to Christianity to ensure they were not secretly practising Judaism, consorting with Jews or engaging in Jewish practices such as circumcision.\n\nIn 1521, Cortés defeated the Aztec empire in Mesoamerica, which was followed by a large influx of Spanish clergy, whose writings provide most of information about pre-conquest Aztec life and customs largely assembled from interviews with those who survived the invasion and subsequent epidemics, and their descendents. Diego Durán, a Dominican friar, was convinced that the Aztecs were one of the lost tribes of Israel, with a crucial piece of supporting evidence being that they had practised circumcision.\n\nSo influential was this notion that 300 years later Bancroft in his monumental \"Native Races\" began his discussion of circumcision by writing: \"Whether the custom of circumcision, which has been the great prop of argument in favor of the Jewish origin of the Aztecs, really obtained among these people, has been doubted by numerous authors,\" concluding that it probably existed in a \"certain form among some tribes\" (p278). The key being \"a certain form\", since Bancroft makes clear in a footnote that the majority of his sources, including Clavigero, Ternaux-Compans, Carbajal Espinosa, Oviedo y Herrera, and especially Acosta, believed Durán and others \"confounded the custom of drawing blood from the secret organs with circumcision\", and \"the incision on the prepuce and ear to have been mistaken for circumcision\", adding that this blood-letting rite was \"chiefly performed upon sons of great men\" (p279). The case was not helped by the fact no reports of seeing a circumcised adult Aztec existed in the literature. Remondino says it is \"a matter of controversy\" whether the foreskin had actually been removed (p46).\n\nIn regard to the Mayans, Bancroft says that in 1858 Brasseur de Bourbourg reported finding \"traces\"\n\nCountries that do not circumcise have often held antipathy for those that do. Being circumcised was often seen as a sign of disgrace. According to Darby, it was also seen as a serious loss of erogenous tissue: \"During the Renaissance and 18th century the centrality of the foreskin to male sexual function and the pleasure of both partners was recognised by anatomists Berengario da Carpi, Gabriello Fallopio and William Harvey, in popular sex manuals like Aristotle's \"master-piece\", and by physicians like John Hunter, who also appreciated the importance of the foreskin in providing the slack tissue needed to accommodate an erection.\"\n\nIn 1650, English physician John Bulwer in his study of body modification, \"Anthropometamorphosis: Man Transform'd, or the Artificial Changeling\", wrote of the loss in sexual pleasure resulting from circumcision: \"the part which hangeth over the end of the foreskin, is moved up and down in coition, that in this attrition it might gather more heat, and increase the pleasure of the other sexe; a contentation of which they [the circumcised] are defrauded by this injurious invention. For, the shortnesse of the prepuce is reckoned among the organical defects of the yard, … yet circumcision detracts somewhat from the delight of women, by lessening their titillation.\" The English historian Edward Gibbon, author of \"The History of the Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire\", referred to the practice as \"a painful and often dangerous rite\", and a \"singular mutilation\" practiced only by Jews and Turks.\n\nThe ethical view of circumcision varies by country. In the United States, with a high circumcision rate, the American Medical Association stated in 2011 that they \"'will oppose any attempts to intrude into legitimate medical practice and the informed choices of patients\". Such statements have drawn criticism from international doctors; a group of European doctors accused the 2012 American Academy of Pediatrics technical report of cultural bias.\n\nIn 2017, the American Medical Association \"Journal of Ethics\" published two separate articles challenging the morality of performing non-therapeutic infant circumcision.\n\nCircumcision spread in several English-speaking nations from the late 19th century, with the introduction of anesthesia and antisepsis rapidly expanding surgical practice. Doctors such as Sir Jonathan Hutchinson in England wrote articles in favour of the procedure. Peter Charles Remondino, a San Diego physician, wrote a \"History of Circumcision from the Earliest Times to the Present: Moral and Physical Reasons for Its Performance\" (1891), to promote circumcision. Lewis Sayre, a prominent orthopedic surgeon at the time, was another early American advocate. However, the theories on which many early claims were made, such as the reflex theory of disease and the alleged harmful effects of masturbation, have long since been abandoned by the medical profession.\n\nDr. John Harvey Kellogg recommended circumcision of boys caught masturbating, writing: \"A remedy for masturbation which is almost always successful in small boys is circumcision, especially when there is any degree of phimosis. The operation should be performed by a surgeon without administering anaesthetic, as the pain attending the operation will have a salutary effect upon the mind, especially if it be connected with the idea of punishment.\" But he was opposed to routine circumcision of infants: \"It is doubtful, however, whether as much harm as good does not result from circumcision, since it has been shown by extensive observation among the Jews that very great contraction of the meatus, or external orifice of the urethra, is exceedingly common among them, being undoubtedly the result of the prolonged irritation and subsequent cicatricial contraction resulting from circumcision in infancy.\" \n\nAn early British opponent of circumcision was Herbert Snow, who wrote a short book called \"The barbarity of circumcision as a remedy for congenital abnormality\" in 1890. But as late as 1936, L. E. Holt, an author of pediatric textbooks, advocated male and female circumcision as a treatment for masturbation.\n\nThe first serious questioning of the practice did not occur until late 1949 when Gairdner published \"The Fate of the Foreskin\" in the British Medical Journal; according to Wallerstein this began to affect the practice of circumcision in Britain.\n\nAccording to Darby and Cox, the persistence of circumcision in the US has led to more vigorous protest movements. A 1980 protest march at the California State Capitol was reported in an Associated Press article. The National Organization of Circumcision Information Resource Centers (NOCIRC), was formed by Marilyn Milos, R.N., in 1985. The organization's stated objective is to secure the birthright of male, female, and intersex children and babies to keep their sex organs intact. Protest rallies have been held in the US and other areas. NOCIRC have consistently criticised the American medical community's circumcision guidelines. According to Milos and Donna Macris, \"The need to defend the baby's right to a peaceful beginning was brought to light by Dr. Frederick Leboyer in his landmark work, \"Birth Without Violence\"\".\n\nThis period also saw the formation of anti-circumcision organizations in Australia, Canada, the United Kingdom and South Africa. Activists began creating websites in the mid-1990s, and this process has continued. One such organization distributed questionnaires to circumcised men. The complaints included prominent scarring (33%), insufficient penile skin for comfortable erection (27%), erectile curvature from uneven skin loss (16%), and pain and bleeding upon erection/manipulation (17%). Psychological complaints included feelings of mutilation (60%), low self-esteem/inferiority to \"intact\" men (50%), genital dysmorphia (55%), rage (52%), resentment/depression (59%), violation (46%), or parental betrayal (30%). Many respondents reported that their physical/emotional suffering impeded emotional intimacy with their partner(s), resulting in sexual dysfunction. Prominent men known to be unhappy about being circumcised include Sigmund Freud, A E Housman, W.H. Auden, Geoffrey Keynes and his brother John Maynard Keynes, the famous economist. In 1996 the British Medical Journal published a letter by 20 men saying that \"we have been harmed by circumcision in childhood\"; they argued that \"it cannot be ethical for a doctor to amputate normal tissue from a normal child\". Dr. Benjamin Spock (1903 – 1998), whose Baby and Child Care is the biggest selling American single-author book in history, originally supported circumcision but changed his mind near the end of his life.\n\nIn the United States, the American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP), the American Academy of Family Physicians (AAFP), and the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists (ACOG), which collaborated to produce the 2012 statements issued by the AAP, position paper as of 2012 stated \"\"In cases such as the decision to perform a circumcision in the newborn period (where there is reasonable disagreement about the balance between medical benefits and harms, where there are nonmedical benefits and harms that can result from a decision on whether to perform the procedure, and where the procedure is not essential to the child’s immediate well-being), the parents should determine what is in the best interest of the child. In the pluralistic society of the United States, where parents are afforded wide authority for determining what constitutes appropriate child-rearing and child welfare, it is legitimate for the parents to take into account their own cultural, religious, and ethnic traditions, in addition to medical factors, when making this choice.\"\n\nStarting in 2008 and following a framework established in 2007, the WHO and UNAIDS recommended voluntary medical male circumcision (VMMC) as a means of reducing the rate of HIV infection in eastern and southern Africa, and between 2008 and 2016 11 million adolescent boys and men in the region were circumcised, and the 2016 goal was to reach 90% of males aged 10–29-years by 2021.\n\nIn 2009 the UK National Health Service posted a commentary on a 2009 paper published in the New England Journal of Medicine about clinical trial outcomes of VMCC in African men and boys on sexually-transmitted herpes simplex virus type 2 and human papillomavirus (HPV). The NHS noted that the study was applicable to African, not UK, populations, that commentators in the US reacted more positively than those in the UK, and that UK commentators questioned some of the analysis. The NHS also noted that condom use is the best way to prevent sexually-transmitted disease.\n\nReviews published in 2016 found the evidence from those trials to be solid, and found that additional high quality clinical trials had shown that VMMC also could reduce HPV transmission in that region.\n\nThe term \"genital integrity\" refers to the condition of having complete and unaltered genital organs. Genital integrity is the norm in Latin America and the Caribbean, the United Kingdom and all other European states (except for three countries in the Balkans with large Muslim populations: Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Kosovo), and in most Asian countries. Doctors Opposing Circumcision asserts that genital integrity produces the highest state of health and well-being.\nHammond (1999) asserts that every person has a right to a whole and intact body and that, where minors are concerned, \"the unnecessary removal of a functioning body organ in the name of tradition, custom or any other non-disease related cause should never be acceptable to the health profession.\" He says that such interventions are violations of individual bodily rights and \"a breach of fundamental medical ethics principles\".\nMany opponents of circumcision see infant circumcision as unnecessary, harmful and unethical; some want the procedures prohibited. Boyle \"et al\" (2000) suggest that \"As we enter the 21st century, appropriate legal action must be taken to safeguard the physical genital integrity of male children.\"\n\nOthers also see the genital cutting of children as a human rights and children's rights issue, opposing the genital modification and mutilation of children, including circumcision, female genital mutilation and intersex genital surgeries; several anti-circumcision organizations oppose sex assignment surgeries on infants with ambiguous genitalia.\n\nCurrent laws in many countries, and United States Federal Law as well as laws in several U.S. states, prohibit the genital modification and mutilation of female minors, with some exceptions based on medical need. Opponents of male circumcision assert that laws against genital modification and mutilation of minors should apply equally to males and females.\n\nMany anti-circumcision groups have joined the International Coalition for Genital Integrity and endorsed its declaration, which was adopted by the First International Symposium on Circumcision, on March 3, 1989, at Anaheim, California (there have been nine such further symposia held since, with the proceedings of several subsequently published in book form). Intact America, founded in 2008, and other organizations such as Genital Autonomy America, the American Academy of Pediatrics, American Civil Liberties Union, and Centers for Disease Control strive to raise public awareness on the biological and sexual functions of the foreskin, alter policy and change attitudes toward male infant circumcision in the United States.\n\nHowever, linking male circumcision to female genital mutilation (FGM) is itself highly controversial. Organizations actually involved in combating FGM have been at considerable pains to distinguish the two, as this UNICEF document explains: \"When the practice first came to be known beyond the societies in which it was traditionally carried out, it was generally referred to as 'female circumcision'. This term, however, draws a direct parallel with male circumcision and, as a result, creates confusion between these two distinct practices.\" This stance has been largely echoed by Western medical and political authorities. A Royal Dutch Medical Association viewpoint says that the form of female genital mutilation that resembles non-therapeutic circumcision the most is rejected unanimously throughout literature. The viewpoint also says \"FGM takes many forms. There is the most severe form, infibulation, in which the inner and outer labia are stitched together and the clitoris is removed. However, there are also much milder forms of FGM, in which only the foreskin of the clitoris is removed.\"\nIn the United States, the organization MGMbill.org has been sending a proposed bill to the US Congress and 15 state legislatures every year since 2004 in order to extend the prohibition on genital modification and mutilation of minors to include male and intersex children. Although Rep. Virgil Goode expressed public support for the bill in 2005, he refused to sponsor it.\n\nAccording to the Nordic Association of Clinical Sexology (2013), \"the decision to alter the appearance, sensitivity, and functionality of the penis should be left to its owner, thus upholding his fundamental rights to protection and bodily integrity. Every person's right to bodily integrity goes hand in hand with his or her sexual autonomy.\"\n\nWhile circumcision debates are often dominated by the concerns of Anglophone countries, very different controversies over the procedure regularly erupt in other cultural contexts. In South Asia, Pakistan has long used circumcision status as a definitive marker of Indian covert involvement in its internal affairs. But this assumption was thrown into confusion when it was discovered that large segments of its own Muslim male population, specifically from western tribal areas, were themselves uncircumcised.\n\nOpposition to circumcision exists among Jews in Israel. Protests for children's rights have occurred there. Even though there is often pressure from family on parents to circumcise their sons, \"more and more families\" are preferring to abstain from circumcision.\n\nIn the Xhosa areas of South Africa, the large death toll from traditional circumcision provide a constant source of friction between traditional leaders, who oppose medicalised procedures, and health authorities. In 2009 in Eastern Cape Province alone, 80 boys died and hundreds were hospitalized after attending initiation schools. The controversy looks set to spread to the Zulu, whose present-day king Goodwill Zwelithini has called for the reintroduction of customary circumcision after it was banned by Zulu king Shaka in the 19th century. Similar issues, though on a smaller scale, have arisen with traditional circumcision of Aborigines in remote areas of central Australia.\n\nOn June 26, 2012, a court in Cologne, Germany ruled that circumcision was \"inflicting bodily harm on boys too young to consent\", deciding that the practice contravenes the \"interests of the child to decide later in life on his religious beliefs\". The decision based on the article \"Criminal Relevance of Circumcising Boys. A Contribution to the Limitation of Consent in Cases of Care for the Person of the Child\" published by Holm Putzke, a German law professor at the University of Passau. The decision of the court in the city of Cologne, that a child's right to physical integrity trumps religious and parental rights, applied only within the jurisdiction of that court. The ruling was condemned by Jewish and Muslim groups in Europe. A broad majority of German lawmakers passed a resolution asking Angela Merkel's government to clarify the ruling so as to allow Jews and Muslims to continue to practice their religion. On 12 December 2012, following a series of hearings and consultations, the Bundestag adopted a law explicitly permitting non-therapeutic circumcision to be performed under certain conditions by a vote of 434-100, with 46 abstentions.\n\nThe anti-circumcision movement, whose members sometimes call themselves \"intactivists\" (a portmanteau of \"intact\" and \"activist\"), strives to prohibit involuntary and forced circumcision internationally. Various organisations have been set up specifically for the purpose, other organisations have stated their support for the movement. Intactivists consider themselves to be an LGBT social movement, and have participated in LGBT pride parades ever since 2006.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40003362", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40003362", "title": "Clitoraid", "text": "Clitoraid\n\nClitoraid is a non-profit project started by the Raelian movement to combat female genital mutilation.\n\nThe project was started in 2005 or 2006. The Raelian movement sees sexual gratification as a positive thing and Clitoraid has sponsored clitoral reconstruction for African women and sought to build a hospital in Burkina Faso where they can also receive post-operative instruction in masturbation. Clitoraid has an Adopt a Clitoris sponsorship program, which it has promoted at the AVN Adult Entertainment Expo in Las Vegas.\n\nIn 2010, on the encouragement of sexologist Betty Dodson, the San Francisco-based sex shop chain Good Vibrations pledged financial support to Clitoraid including asking customers to make donations; the company rescinded the offer after protests that the effort was misplaced, especially from Wanjiru Kamau-Rutenberg, a professor of politics at the University of San Francisco. In 2013, Clitoraid designated the week of 6–12 May as \"International Clitoris Awareness Week\".\n\nThe 2014 opening of the Kamkaso Hospital or The Pleasure Hospital at Bobo-Dioulasso was delayed by the Burkina Faso Ministry of Health. Clitoraid blamed the Catholic Church.\n\nIn 2015, in response to a dispute over the circumcision of a 4-year-old boy in the US, Clitoraid issued a press release supporting the mother who did not want the circumcision. They also called on the United Nations to ban the practice: \"Bodily harm is against the fundamental rights of all children, and we can’t understand when a so-called civilized country such as the United States would allow its male babies to be so readily mutilated legally!\"\n"}
{"id": "46178340", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46178340", "title": "Cloche (agriculture)", "text": "Cloche (agriculture)\n\nIn agriculture and gardening, a cloche (from French, \"cloche\" for \"bell\") is a covering for protecting plants from cold temperatures. The original form of a cloche is a bell-shaped glass cover that is placed over an individual plant; modern cloches are usually made from plastic. The use of cloches is traced back to market gardens in 19th century France, where entire fields of plants would be protected with cloches. In commercial growing, cloches have largely been replaced by row cover, and nowadays are mainly found in smaller gardens.\n"}
{"id": "1627267", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1627267", "title": "Cyclospasm", "text": "Cyclospasm\n\nCyclospasm is the contraction of the ciliary muscle in the eye, in the accommodation of focus for near vision. Cyclospasm may also exert tensions on the trabecular meshwork, opening the pores and facilitating outflow of the aqueous humour into the canal of Schlemm. The increase in aqueous humour outflow is desirable for patients with glaucoma.\n\nSymptoms are the same as in the case of Myopia. Some of the most common symptoms are: tiredness of the eyes while looking at close objects, eye ache, headache.\n\nPrimary reasons is eye fatigue as a result of excessive pressure on the eyes because of reading, watching TV, computer, poor lighting, etc. Some other reasons are poor posture, poor diet, lack of sleep, etc.\n\nThere are different ways to treat cyclospasm. Some doctors recommend special eye drops and taking care of your hygiene. Eye exercises and healthy diet is also vital for good eyesight. There are no surgical treatment.\n\nIf cyclospasm is not treated at its early stages, it may lead to myopia.\n"}
{"id": "30979779", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30979779", "title": "DXN (brand)", "text": "DXN (brand)\n\nDXN is a multilevel marketing company based in Malaysia. Founded in 1993 by Lim Siow Jin, DXN manufactures and markets dietary supplements containing the mushrooms Ganoderma or Lingzhi. DXN products are marketed by affiliated companies Daehsan, Ltd. and Daxen in some countries in Europe and Asia.\n\nDXN Holdings Berhad was first listed on the main board of Bursa Malaysia in September 2003 and delisted in December 2011 following a takeover bid by the founder. DXN Holdings was the sole shareholder of Daxen Biotechnology, a Malaysia-based manufacturer of monascus, vinegar, fruit enzymes and other beverage products. \n\nIn 2013, DXN’s office in Kerala, India, was raided by the crime branch of the Kerala Economic Offences Wing for alleged violations of the Prize Chits and Money Circulation Schemes (Banning) Act, 1978. According to the crime branch, the company was running a money-chain Ponzi scheme. Documents and goods valued at 11.2 million Rupees were seized during the raid. \n\nIn May 2015, subsequent to Canadian Food Inspection Agency's inspection activities, a recall notice was issued in Canada for DXN brand instant coffees because the products contained milk which had not been declared on the product ingredient label. As such, the products posed a potential risk to consumers with milk allergies. \n"}
{"id": "38602518", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38602518", "title": "Damodar Kund", "text": "Damodar Kund\n\nDamodar Kund () is one of the sacred lakes as per Hindu beliefs, which is located at the foothills of Girnar hills, near Junagadh in Gujarat, India.\n\nIt is considered holy, as per Hindu mythology and many Hindus prefer to bathe and immerse the ashes and the bones left after cremation of dead bodies, here at Damodar Kund due to a belief that the departed souls would get moksha here. It may be mentioned here other such famous places for immersion of ashes and bones ( Hindu rite of \"asthi-visarjana\" ) are in Ganga at Haridwar and Triveni Sangam at Prayag.\n\nThe water of the lake has properties of dissolving the bones. The lake is 257 ft long and 50 ft broad and only 5 feet deep. It is surrounded by a well built ghat. The steps for going up the Girnar hills start near Damodar Kund.\n\nAt the foothills of Ashwatthama Hill in Girnar mountain range base, southerly to Damodara Kund is the Damodar Hari Temple. The idols here are supposed to have been installed by Vajranabha, the grandson of Lord Shri Krishna, the one who also is credited with Dwarkadhish Temple and many other. Historically, these temples are supposed to have been built or renovated by a Suryavanshi ruler named Chandraketpur, who is also accredited to have built the temples of Shiva at Bhavnath, a testament to his tolerance for all belief systems. The place underwent renovation during the regime of King Skand Gupta of Gupta dynasty in the year 462 AD. Lord Damodar here is considered by vaishnavaits as Adhipati of Girnar Kshetra. \n\nCovering an area of 32 acres, the temple is constructed using pink sand stone and consists of an inner Nij Mandir and an outer Solaha Mandapa, each topped with a Shikar, supported by an array of around 84 exquisitely carved pillars. Nij mandir's shikhar is 65 feet tall and the sabhha Mandap's shikhar is 30 feet tall. The statue of Damodarji is found in the form of Chaturbhuj, each arm holding a conch, discus, mace and lotus, along with Sri Radha Rani. Both the idols are sculpted from black stone and are heavily decorated with gold and silk. There are other sub shrines dedicated to Lord Balarama, Sri Revati and Lord Ganesha. There are several other ancient temples nearby with on and outside temple complex.\n\nDevotees are seen taking a holy dip in the sacred bathing tank, Damodar Kund, before offering prayers at the temple. \n\nThe sewa of Shri Damodarji is being performed here in the Samprant-Yug by Vaishnav tradition. Shri Damodarji is the Ishtdev of the Giri Narayan Brahmin community and several other local communities. As per the traditional belief, Giri Narayan community is living here since around 12000 years ago. \n\nThe Damodar Kund is closely attached to the life of Narsinh Mehta, the famous 15th century Gujarati poet and devotee of Krishna, who used to come to bathe at Damodar Kund and is said to have written many of his \"prabhatiyas\" (morning prayers), in the natural surrounding here at the Damodar lake, at picturesque foothills of Girnar. At present, there is also a temple of Narsinh Mehta, which is built near temple of Damodar, to commemorate the association of this great saint-poet with Damodar Kund and ancient temple of Damodar here. This temple was built in decade of 1890 during reign of Nawab Sir Muhammad Bahadur Khan III at behest of his Diwan Haridas Viharidas Desai, who used to public money by organizing lottery to build the temple and foot steps leading up the mount Girnar.\n\nNarsinh Mehta in one of his verses mentions this fact as quoting self as under :- \n\nClose to Damodara Kund, on the westerly to the Damodarji temple is Revati Kund. The kund is 52 ft long, 52 feet broad and 37 feet deep. Because of the depth dip here is not safe for all. Revati, who was the daughter of King Raiwat, took form from the fires of pruthesthi yagna. It is said that Raivata Kakudmin or simply Kakudmi left Dwarka and moved to Girnar Hill after Revati was married to Lord Balarama. Hence, mount Girnar was also known as Raivatachal, Raivatgiri, Revatak Parvat or simply Raivata. And Junagadh was also referred to similarly. Baithakji of MahaPrabhuji is located close to Revati Kund. The founder of Pushti Sampradaya Shrimad Vallabhacharayaji (MahaPrabhuji) once visited Damodar pilgrim, where he remitted the shrimad Bhagwat. This is 64th seat of Shri Mahaprabhuji. Close to Revati kund is another mythological place, cave of Muchukunda. The cave has a temple of Lord Krishna, and a Shiv Linga established either by Lord Krishna himself or by Muchkundh. This is the place where Kalayavan, the great Yavana or Greek warrior king, who was chasing Lord Krishna was killed by Muchukunda's gaze in the Indian epic Mahābhārata.\n\nThere is another holy lake, Mrigi Kund located nearby in Bhavnath temple premises. Hindus prefer to bathe in all these lakes to get rid of their sins. \n\nDamodar Kund is one of the monuments protected by the state government of Gujarat. It is a temporary check-dam reservoir, which are being made and shifted regularly, in order to maintain water levels throughout the year at Damodar Kund. There are changing rooms, public toilet and other basic amenities provided by government, who have built permanent structure at Damodar Kund for facility of pilgrims.\n"}
{"id": "31721695", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31721695", "title": "Earlham Institute", "text": "Earlham Institute\n\nEarlham Institute (EI, formerly The Genome Analysis Centre (TGAC)) is a life science research institute located at the Norwich Research Park (NRP), Norwich, England. EI's research is focused on exploring living systems by applying computational science and biotechnology to answer ambitious biological questions and generate enabling resources.\n\nThe institute was established by the Biotechnology and Biological Sciences Research Council in partnership with East of England Development Agency (EEDA), Norfolk County Council, Norwich City Council, South Norfolk Council and the Greater Norwich Development Partnership. It cost £13.5 million, and was built by Morgan Sindall. It was officially opened on 3 July 2009 by John Sulston, winner of the 2002 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine, and former Director of the Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute, another genomics research institution.\n\nIn early June 2011, it unveiled a supercomputer on its site that has the most powerful processor in the world that runs Red Hat Linux, with six terabytes of RAM. It was installed to crack the structure of the wheat genome, which is five times larger than the human genome.\n\nIn June 2016, Earlham Institute completed a rebranding project which saw the name transition from The Genome Analysis Centre (TGAC) to Earlham Institute (EI).\n\nIt is situated on the Norwich Research Park, to the west of Norwich on the former A47 (B1108), and adjacent to the west of the University of East Anglia, next to the River Yare.\n\nThe goal of this institute is to be at the forefront of data intensive science in biology, to be a leader in bioinformatics innovation and the application of genome technology and to enable bioscience through dissemination of the data and technology produced in the institute and in collaboration with external scientists worldwide. Project specialisms include wheat and ryegrass, but the wider research carried out includes vertebrate, evolutionary, environment, and regulatory genomics as well as data infrastructure and software development to support the international bioscience community. EI makes its research open access where possible.\n\nEarlham Institute has been directed by:\n\nOne of the responsibilities of EI is to communicate the science it undertakes to a range of audiences, such as the international scientific community, the general public, school children, and students. It runs various programmes throughout the year to deliver this responsibility, as well as producing editorial features to explain the research it carries out.\n\nEI has a state-of-the-art scientific training facility which helps support the delivery of workshops and training courses to support the international bioscience community.\n\nEI is equipped with next-generation sequencing and genomics platforms for high-throughput data generation for research projects. EI historically has been an early adopter of new technologies for its scientific research, but also makes these available to the UK bioscience community through its National Capability in Genomics.\n\n"}
{"id": "4354646", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4354646", "title": "Emergent virus", "text": "Emergent virus\n\nAn emergent virus is a virus that has adapted and emerged as a new disease/pathogenic strain, with attributes facilitating pathogenicity in a field not normally associated with that virus. This includes viruses that are the cause of a disease which has notably increased in incidence; this is often a result of a wide variety of causes from both the influence of man and nature. Most emergent viruses can be categorized as zoonotic (an animal disease that can be transmitted to humans), this has the advantage of possibly having several natural reservoirs for the disease.\n\nThe most important factor in the development of an emergent disease, to humans, is the ability to pass from animal host to humans. There is little to no occurrence of spontaneous new virus species development, although the possible exception commonly cited is Ebola virus. Most often the virus, due to selection pressure for an animal version of the strain of disease to mutate and therefore adapt to the infection of human hosts.\n\n\nKnown to have existed for centuries with little incidence. During the 19th century poliovirus became more prominent in populations across the world. Dense urban populations allowed the disease to propagate via close human to human contact. In addition to this, technological advances meant that traveling became more common throughout the population essentially leading to increased transmission of the virus. The situation became worse year upon year with increasing incidence of the disease worldwide. The issue was not resolved until the introduction of a poliovirus vaccine brought the situation under control. This example demonstrates how a disease can emerge in a population as a result of human influence. This examples also illustrates how an emergent virus can emerge and disappear by tackling the root cause. Poliovirus has been targeted for eradication by the WHO.\n\nNew emergent viruses are continually being discovered. Examples include: SARS, Avian influenza, H5N1, and Ebola.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54280462", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54280462", "title": "Enamel microabrasion", "text": "Enamel microabrasion\n\nEnamel microabrasion is a procedure in cosmetic dentistry used to improve the appearance of the teeth. Like tooth whitening it is used to remove discolorations of the tooth surface but microabrasion is a mechanical, rather than chemical, procedure.\n\nIn the past, teeth with stains or other color changes were made to look better through the use of restorative materials, such as dental porcelain. These materials would create a thin veneer over the outer surface of the tooth. Although veneers looked better, these materials did not match the structure or characteristics of the tooth enamel and replacement was frequently needed. As far back as 1916, some researchers were advocating instead removing a thin layer of the outermost enamel to expose the (presumably) undamaged layer underneath. The first practical application of enamel microabrasion was developed by Theodore Croll and Richard Cavanaugh in 1986, who used a combination of weak hydrochloric acid and pumice to remove a few tenths of millimeters of the enamel.\n\nContemporary enamel microabrasion uses a combination of mechanical and chemical means to remove of a small amount of tooth enamel (not more than a few tenths of a millimeter) to eliminate superficial discoloration. These discolorations can result from either from extrinsic factors (such as tobacco, dental plaque, certain foods, etc.) or intrinsic ones (most commonly dental fluorosis).\n\n\n\nPatients can benefit from combined microabrasion/ bleaching techniques as microabrasion causes reduction in the enamel surface and sometimes the tooth surface appear yellowish or darker due to exposure of dentin surface and thinning of enamel layer over it.In this condition, correction of this yellow color can be achieved by using tooth whitening technique to mask the color.\n\n\"Fragoso, et al.\" (2011) found that applying fluoride paste on enamel surface after microabrasion process provides higher hardness & more enamel smoothness. in addition, \"Segura et al\" found that the treated enamel surface become more resistant to demineralisation than untreated enamel and less colonisation of bacteria occur.\n"}
{"id": "32129789", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32129789", "title": "Epidemiology of syphilis", "text": "Epidemiology of syphilis\n\nSyphilis is a bacterial infection using caused by sexual contact and is believed to have infected people in 1999 with greater than 90% of cases in the developing world. It affects between 700,000 and 1.6 million pregnancies a year, resulting in spontaneous abortions, stillbirths, and congenital syphilis. In Sub-Saharan Africa syphilis contributes to approximately 20% of perinatal deaths.\n\nIn the developed world, syphilis infections were in decline until the 1980s and 1990s due to widespread use of antibiotics. Since the year 2000, rates of syphilis have been increasing in the US, UK, Australia, and Europe primarily among men who have sex with men. This is attributed to unsafe sexual practices. A STD Surveillance study done by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in 2016 showed that men who have sex with men only account for over half (52%) of the 27,814 cases during that year. Nationally, the highest rates of primary and secondary syphilis in 2016 were observed among men aged 20–34 years, among men in the West, and among Black men. \n\nIncreased rates among heterosexuals have occurred in China and Russia since the 1990s. Syphilis increases the risk of HIV transmission by two to five times and co-infection is common (30–60% in a number of urban centers).\n\nUntreated, it has a mortality rate of 8% to 58%, with a greater death rate in males. The symptoms of syphilis have become less severe over the 19th and 20th century in part due to widespread availability of effective treatment and partly due to decreasing virulence of the spirochete. With early treatment few complications result.\n\nIn China rates of syphilis have increased from the 1990s to the 2010s. This occurred after a successful campaign to reduce rates was carried out in the 1950s. Rates of diagnosis are higher in urban coastal areas. This may be due to sexual practices or better diagnosis in these areas.\n\nRates of syphilis in 2000–2005 among low-risk groups such as women without children and unmarried people were about 0.3–0.6% while rates among high-risk groups such as drug users and MSM were about 7–15%. Rates are greatest among men who have sex with men and sex workers.\n\nThe increase has been attributed to a number of factors including: migration from rural communities to urban environments, increased numbers of unmarried men, limited screening for disease, partners not always getting notification, and the fact that high-risk groups frequently do not seek health care.\n\nCo-infection of HIV and syphilis is probably a major reason behind resurgence in syphilis prevalence among men who have sex with men in China. It is hypothesized that the association observed between syphilis and HIV among MSM is probably due to similar risks associated with both infections. Analysis of data from a survey among MSM in seven Chinese cities reveal that the factors significantly associated with co-infection are older age, education up to senior high school, unprotected anal intercourse, recent STD symptoms, and incorrect knowledge about routes of transmission. \n\nOne reason for increasing syphilis infection rates in China is suboptimal testing uptake among key populations. SESH, a research partnership dedicated to developing creative, equitable, and effective solutions to sexual health dilemmas, has looked extensively into ways to improve syphilis detection among MSM. Research suggests that testing can be optimized by offering rapid STD testing at MSM-focused centers, improving confidentiality, and ensuring test accuracy. \n\nIn Europe rates of syphilis are higher in eastern and southern countries than in western ones. Rates overall in Europe are 6.0 per 100,000 population. Syphilis infection was eight times higher in men than women. The majority of cases were reported in people 25 and older, while younger people, aged 15 to 24 represented 13% of the cases. Almost two-thirds (62%) of the cases in which the sexual partner was accounted for were reported in men who have sex with men (MSM), echoing a phenomena in other parts of the world. An annual epidemiological report from 2015 done by the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control found that there is a high proportion of HIV co-infections. These co-infections tend to appear most in men who have sex with men, who are already the most affected group overall. \n\nRates of infection vary throughout the European continent and the trends are different for men and women. The rate of syphilis infection in men has gone up dramatically since 2010. The rate for women in slowly decreasing in the same timeframe. Countries in Western Europe saws some of the sharpest increases. Countries like Belgium, Germany, France and many others saw increases of over 50%. The reported rates of syphilis in European countries vary overall. The lowest reported rate was from Croatia, where 1 per 100,000 people have been infected. The highest rate reported was Denmark with 13.7 per 100,000 people infected.\n\nRates of congenital syphilis have decreased between the 1980 and 2000s due to better access to prenatal care.\nA five-year study among 250 patients in each year among attendees in a STD clinic in West Bengal found significantly decreased(p<0.05) Syphilis prevalence from 10.8% (in 2004) to 3.6% (in 2008). A study conducted in 2015 found a falling trend of syphilis in STD clinic attendees, but a rising trend in intro-venus drug users, pregnant women, HIV-seropositive individuals, and patients from other wards and OPD's. This study was conducted at a tertiary care center so the results may not reflect the true prevalence of syphilis in the country.\n\nIn the United States rates of syphilis have increased among men between 2000 and 2007. Rates are six times greater in men than women and seven times greater in African Americans than Caucasians. More than 60% of cases are in men who have sex with men. It occurs most commonly in those between 15–40 years of age.\n\nIn the United States, rates of syphilis as of 2007 were six times greater in men than women while they were nearly equal in 1997. Rates are also greater in African Americans and Hispanics than in Caucasians.\n\nAccording to a report from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, between 2000-2016, the rising rates of primary and secondary syphilis were attributed to men, mostly who have sex with men, no matter how they identify. However, since 2013, according to the same report, rates among men and women have increased. These increases were in every region within the United States and across racial identities as well. The groups with the highest rates in 2016 were men aged 20-34, men from the western region of the United States, and black men. In 2016, there were 27,814 reported cases of syphilis, primary and secondary, in the United States, a 17.6% increase from the previous year and a 74% increase from the reported cases in 2012. \n\nPrimary and secondary syphilis have a high correlation to an HIV-coinfection, particularly in men who have sex with men (MSM). In 2016, in cases with a known HIV-status, 47% of men who had sex with men were HIV-positive along with their syphilis infections. The rates among men who have sex with women (MSW) and women were much lower at 10.7% (MSW) and 41.% (women).\n\nChina had a great deal of syphilis during the first part of the 20th century and basically eliminated it from 1960-1980. During the 1950s China was believed to have one of the worst cases of syphilis in human history. Different surveillance programs determined that 84% of Chinese prostitutes had the infection and as many as 5% of citizens had the disease in large cities.\n\nThe communist government under Mao Zedong, in response to the syphilis epidemic, issued free treatment for all those infected and increased screening for the disease. In the 1960s it was found that syphilis was almost completely eradicated in China.\n\nRecent studies show evidence that the disease has seen a resurgence. In a study entitled \"Syphilis in China: Results of a National Surveillance Program\", researchers found that during 1993 the number of cases of reported syphilis was 0-2 per 100,000. During a national surveillance program in 2005 there were found to be 5-7 cases per 100,000 throughout the country. In that same study it showed that the city with the most prevalence of syphilis was Shanghai, with an estimated 55 patients with syphilis per 100,000 citizens. The second highest was Zhejiang, which had approximately 35 people with syphilis per 100,000; the third was Fujian, which had 28 patients per 100,000.\n\nAll of these cities are on the southeastern edge of the country, facing the ocean. The greatest increase in syphilis is in female sex workers, drug users, and gay men. According to an article published in The Lancet titled \"Syphilis Resurgent in China\", the main cause of syphilis being more prevalent in China is due to the recent economic growth of China and increased globalization, which has caused an increase of the sex trade, internal and external migration, and a bigger economic inequality among its citizens.\n\nSomething else that is credited is that China's earlier efforts to control the disease helped increase the susceptibility of citizens to the disease. China's increase in syphilis is not self-contained; Russia, the United Kingdom, Ireland, and the United States have all seen a great increase in patients with syphilis recently.\n\nRussia is one of the main areas around the world that has been affected by the syphilis epidemic. An article titled \"Epidemics of syphilis in the Russian Federation: trends, origins, and priorities for control\", published in \"The Lancet\", discussed syphilis trends in Russia. Like China, Russia basically eliminated the disease during the 1960s, though there was a slight increase during 1978 and 1979 with an estimated 28 cases per 100,000. The rate dropped slightly only to rise between 1988, where there were four patients per 100,000 citizens, to 263 patients per 100,000 in 1996, which is 62 times more than it had been.\n\nThe most commonly affected individuals are found to be young men and women. It is also reported that the estimated number of patients in Russia with syphilis who do not report their disease rose from around 0% in 1989 to 30% in 1993.\n\nMany of the reasons for this increase in syphilis within Russia stem from political restructuring and a declining economy, causing many people's standard of living to decline. The gross national income of the country dropped about 12% between 1990 and 1994. The government funding of health services and social institutions went down and in turn caused fewer people to receive treatment for syphilis. This broad decline in the economy within Russia also led to an increase in the crossing of the country's borders, causing a mixing of surrounding area and more migration within and outside of Russia.\n\nIn Moscow especially, a lot of travel has been done between other large cities. This increase in travel is similar to China's recent increase in travel. Both have increased the number of sexual encounters with prostitutes and varied ideas of sexual ideology.\n\nRussia's increased contact with the western world has brought more ideas on sexual orientation and an increase in pornography. Russia right now is focused on making an increase in prevention and treatment programs throughout the country, making sure that the lower class of people have access to medical services and many health promotions are being made.\n\nThe United Kingdom and other parts of Western Europe have also seen a major increase in syphilis in recent times. A study called \"Are trends in HIV, gonorrhea, and syphilis worsening in western Europe?\" in a journal of medicine called BMJ outlines the data collected from 1995 to 2000 on sexually transmitted diseases throughout western Europe. As with Russia and China there was a big decline in syphilis before 1980 but a big resurgence during the 1990s. The most common form of how the disease was spread was from sex between two men, 37%, and the second highest was from sex between a man and a woman, 35%.\n\nAnother major way of spreading the disease is the sharing of needles between drug users. The Netherlands, Norway Ireland and France reported that most transmissions of syphilis were local and mainly between two men having sex.\n\nEngland and Wales saw a slight drop and then increase of syphilis cases between 1995 and 2000 and a drastic increase in syphilis contraction through homosexual men in 2000. The increase in Western Europe can be attributed to the declining sexual morals of Western Europe with less safe sex practicing and young people are having more sex than they have had in the past. Due to a lack of modern surveillance programs and various governments in Europe there is not definitive data to show how prevalent the spread of syphilis is throughout every country in Western Europe.\n\nThe United States mirrored the global trend with a sharp increase in syphilis during the 1990s up till the present. The United States saw a big decrease in the number of cases in the 1950s, with only around 6500 cases were reported per year, which was statistically about what other countries were seeing at the time. This continued with a varying increase around the 1960s and 1970s with around 19,000 and 26,000 cases per year up until the beginning of the 1990s.\nThe Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) published their findings in 2013 with 19,738,800 almost 15% of those were from syphilis. It has been found that men and women are equally as likely to have syphilis in the United States. It is thought that the number of new cases of syphilis along with the current amount is around 117,000 people have syphilis in the United States.\n\nTo combat the increase in syphilis and other various sexually transmitted diseases, the United States focuses on prevention programs where the focus is on practicing safe sex and being aware of whether ones partner has syphilis. Pregnant women, which have a high risk of infecting their children, are required to take syphilis screening and given treatment if they are found to be carrying the disease.\n\nAll of these countries have in common a theme of travel in between countries which increases how prevalent and far reaching the disease can reach. Not only is travel linked to the reemergence of syphilis but also the Internet has been a major factor in syphilis being transferred from person to person.\nA study done in 2000 titled \"Tracing a Syphilis Outbreak Through Cyberspace\" published in The Journal of American Medical Association shows that Internet chat rooms increase the frequency of sexual contact between people, especially those of gay men.\n\nIn a specific outbreak in San Francisco gay men with syphilis were found to be a lot more probable to have met their significant other through the Internet. The ratio was found to be that 67% of the men met their partner through an Internet chat room and only 19% of those with reported syphilis were not linked to the Internet.\n\nThe Internet is a global force that facilitates sexual encounters among people which spreads the disease to many people who otherwise would not be in contact with syphilis.\nThis global re-emergence of syphilis is a major problem for every country affected. According to a study titled \"Global Prevalence and Incidence Estimates of Selectable Curable STD's\" in a journal named Sex Transm Inf the amount of syphilis cases reported within the 9 main UN territories in 1995 was roughly around 12 million cases. The main population that was reported to have the disease was the people who were lower in the economy and younger people are reported to have more of the disease than older people.\n\nOut of the nine UN regions that were surveyed the region that syphilis was the most prevalent was south and south eastern Asia. The second highest was found to be in the sub Saharan parts of Africa and the third highest was Latin America and the Caribbean areas. This study in 1995 was one of the first big attempts by the World Health Organization to find a good estimate of the total population of people with syphilis and other STDs.\n\nStudies by the World Health Organization pinpoint how prevalent syphilis is globally. An article called \"Congenital syphilis re-emerging\" in a medical journal titled JDDG outlines the World Health Organizations findings as recently as 2008. It is estimated that globally 12 million people acquire the disease every year and of these 12 million patients 2 million are pregnant women.\nThis high amount of pregnant women with the disease estimates that it will cause about 50% of the pregnancies to result in stillbirth or prenatal death. The World Health Organization estimates that syphilis in within the mother can cause syphilis in the baby between 713,600 cases and 1,575,000 cases.\n\nBecause of the increased numbers of patients globally there have been many initiatives to prevent the spread of the disease and there has been a global effort to eradicate the disease. An article titled \"A Road Map for the Global Elimination of Congenital Syphilis\" within a medical journal called Obstetrics and Gynecology International outlines the global efforts to combat congenital syphilis mostly dealing with the World Health Organization. Many of the efforts are focused on screening women who are pregnant for the disease and treating them.\nOf the two million pregnancies each year that test positive for syphilis they make up 1.5% of every pregnancy throughout the world. During 2007 the World Health Organization estimated in 2007 that in the countries that are affected most by congenital syphilis it would cost roughly 3 to 4 million dollars to start a program that could potentially eliminate most of the threat of congenital syphilis by focusing a lot more on screening and treatment.\n\nCountries in Sub-Saharan Africa find it difficult to implement these kinds of treatment due to a lack of health services for their citizens which in turn makes this area a big breeding ground for congenital syphilis and the spread of syphilis through sexual contact.\nThe World Health Organization outlines a four-pillar plan that could help countries eliminate or at least decrease the numbers of cases of congenital syphilis. The four pillars are \"ensure advocacy and sustained political commitment for a successful health initiative, increase access to, and quality of, maternal and newborn health services, screen and treat pregnant women and partners, and establish surveillance, monitoring, and evaluation systems.\".\nThe United Nations has also added goals related to the lowering of syphilis which they call the Millennium Development Goals. These goals include reducing infant death from syphilis and increasing the health of mothers with syphilis. The United Nations have taken steps to include on site screening and testing for syphilis among other sexually transmitted diseases along with an increase in partner notification.\n"}
{"id": "29072952", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29072952", "title": "FDA Food Safety Modernization Act", "text": "FDA Food Safety Modernization Act\n\nThe Food Safety Modernization Act (FSMA) was signed into law by President Barack Obama on January 4, 2011. The FSMA has given the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) new authorities to regulate the way foods are grown, harvested and processed. The law grants the FDA a number of new powers, including mandatory recall authority, which the agency has sought for many years. The FSMA requires the FDA to undertake more than a dozen rulemakings and issue at least 10 guidance documents, as well as a host of reports, plans, strategies, standards, notices, and other tasks.\n\nThe law was prompted after many reported incidents of foodborne illnesses during the first decade of the 2000s and was largely crafted by members of the Grocery Manufacturers Association. Tainted food has cost the food industry billions of dollars in recalls, lost sales and legal expenses.\n\nThis bill is similar to the Food Safety Enhancement Act which passed the House in 2009. It is considered the first major piece of federal legislation addressing food safety since 1938. It is also the first piece of legislation to address intentional adulteration and Food Defense.\n\nThe Center for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) estimated in 2011 that each year 48 million people (1 in 6 Americans) get sick, 128,000 are hospitalized, and 3,000 die of foodborne diseases. 31 pathogens are notorious for causing foodborne illness. Unspecified agents have insufficient data to estimate with certainty the agent-specific burden. Known agents that have not been identified as causing foodborne illness include microbes, chemicals, or other substance known to be in food. The ability for these known agents to cause illness has not been proven so they remain unidentified. \nConsidering the fact that, about 30% of the population is at risk for food borne sicknesses, over 14% of food supply to the United States is imported from other countries, and also new and more food items are becoming more complex or intricate, the FSMA was indeed needed.\n\nIn 1998, the FDA announced a publication entitled \"Guidance for Industry: Guide to Minimize Microbial Food Safety Hazards for Fresh Fruits and Vegetables\" in response to President Clinton's 1997 \"Initiative to Ensure the Safety of Imported and Domestic Fruits and Vegetables\". They resulted in Good Agricultural Practices (GAP) and Good Handling Practices (GHP) certifications that became \"de facto\" industry requirements, but were not enforceable.\n\nOver the past few years, high-profile outbreaks related to various foods, from spinach and peanut products to eggs, have underscored the need to make continuous improvements in food safety.\nUnder this law the FDA will be allowed to mandate a system that is based on science and addresses the hazards from farm to table. This means that the FDA has the power to oversee how foods are produced and how they are maintained in food markets. This puts greater emphasis on preventing food-borne illness. The reasoning is simple: The better the system handles producing, processing, transporting, and preparing foods, the safer our food supply will be.\nUnder the new law, the FDA will now have new prevention-focused tools and a clear regulatory framework to help make substantial improvements in their approach to food safety. For example, for the first time, the FDA has a legislative mandate to require comprehensive, preventive-based controls across the food supply chain. Preventive controls include steps that a food facility would take to prevent or significantly minimize the likelihood of problems occurring. The new law also significantly enhances the FDA’s ability to achieve greater oversight of the millions of food products coming into the United States from other countries each year.\n\nThe events of Sep 11, 2001 reinforced the need to enhance the security of the United States. Congress responded by passing the Public Health Security and Bioterrorism Preparedness Response Act, 'the Bioterrorism Act', which President Bush signed into law June 12, 2002.\nThe Bioterrorism Act of 2002 granted the FDA administrative detention authority over food items if there is credible evidence or information that indicates the food presents a threat of serious adverse health consequences or death to humans or animals. The new (FSMA) law broadens that authority, allowing for administrative detention based on ‘reason to believe’ that the food item has been misbranded or adulterated’ and thus violates a legal standard for the product.\n\nThe first version of the law, the Food Safety Enhancement Act, passed the House on June 9, 2009. However, negotiations with the Senate led to the final product, the 'Food Safety and Modernization Act.' The bill was passed by the Senate in November 2010 by a vote of 73–25. However, because of a tax provision added to the bill, (which is constitutionally required to begin in the House), the vote did not count. There was concern that with the short time left in the lame-duck session, the bill would not get the time needed to be voted on and passed. Attempts to add the bill to the continuing resolution for government funding were scrapped over the objection of Senator Tom Coburn. Eventually, however, the Senate moved on December 19, 2010 to pass the fixed bill by unanimous consent by a voice vote. The House went on to approve the bill by a vote of 215 to 144 on December 21, 2010. President Barack Obama signed the bill into law on Tuesday, January 4, 2011.\n\nAlthough this bill is meant to address food safety, there are, according to food safety advocate Bill Marler, some issues with its effectiveness. Many facilities, such as farms, restaurants, and nonprofit food establishments in which food is prepared for or served directly to the consumer are exempt from the requirements of the bill. Also exempt are facilities that produce food solely for non-human animals.\n\nSenators Jon Tester and Kay Hagan sponsored two amendments that removed farmers, ranchers and local processors from federal oversight, leaving them—as they currently are—within the existing regulatory framework of state and local health and sanitation laws and rules.\n\nThe amendment will offer protections for operations (a.k.a. “qualified facilities”) that sell less than $500,000 a year and sell most (greater than 50%) of their products directly to consumers in the same state and within a 400-mile radius. The amendment also applies to all operations that the FDA classified as a \"very small business.\" Small, local farmers would not necessarily need to comply with some of the requirements and produce safety regulations implemented under S. 510. Instead, these small-scale producers (like those who sell their goods at farmers' markets or roadside stands) would continue to be regulated by local and state entities. In addition, consumers would know whom they are buying from either by direct sales or clear labeling.\n\nFarmers who qualify must provide documentation that the farm is in compliance with state regulations. Documentation may include licenses, inspection reports, or other evidence that the farm is in compliance with State, local, county, or other applicable non-Federal food safety law. The farm must also prominently and conspicuously display the name and address of farm/facility on its label. For foods without a label then by poster, sign, or placard, at the point of purchase or, in the case of Internet sales, in an electronic notice, or in the case of sales to stores and restaurants, on the invoice.\n\nThe legislation affects every aspect of the U.S. food system, from farmers to manufacturers to importers. It places significant responsibilities on farmers and food processors to prevent contamination—a departure from the country's reactive tradition, which has relied on government inspectors to catch tainted food after the fact The legislation requires food producers and importers to pay an annual $500 registration fee, which would help fund stepped-up FDA inspections, enforcement and related activities such as food-safety research\nAbout 360,000 facilities in the United States and abroad would be subject to the fees. The Congressional Budget Office reported that the fees would not cover the cost of the new system, leaving the FDA to incur a net cost of $2.2 billion over five years.\n\nFor the first time, the FDA will have a legislative mandate to require comprehensive, science-based preventive controls across the food supply, including pet food and animal feed.\n\nThe FSMA recognizes that preventive control standards improve food safety only to the extent that producers and processors comply with them. FSMA provides the FDA with new authority to conduct inspections and ensure compliance.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe bill gives the FDA the authority to recall food in the case of contamination or illness. In addition, it requires farms to track their food and implement plans to deal with recalls or outbreaks of disease. FDA officials will also be given access to food growers records in the case of an outbreak. The bill also requires food importers to verify that they meet US food safety standards. Small farms that sell locally or sell less than $500,000 a year are exempt from these new rules.\nNew authorities include:\n\nThe FSMA gives the FDA authority to better ensure that imported products meet U.S. standards and are safe for U.S. consumers, with the vision that imported foods should be held to the same standards as domestic foods. These standards will be met by implementing the following components:\n\nThe FSMA builds a formal system of collaboration with other government agencies, both domestic and foreign. In doing so, the statute explicitly recognizes that all food safety agencies need to work together in an integrated way to achieve our public health goals. The following are examples of enhanced collaboration:\n\nThe FSMA also includes provisions that protect employees who try to prevent food safety problems. Section 402 of the FSMA prohibits employers engaged in the manufacture, processing, packing, transporting, distribution, reception, holding or importation of food from retaliating against employees who disclose violations of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act. This particular portion of the FSMA is administered by the U.S. Department of Labor.\n\nNow that the Act is in place, the FDA must begin the rulemaking process to codify how they intend to enforce the new laws.\n\nEffective June 12, 2011, many food companies will be required to develop food safety plans based on an evaluation of hazards related to food manufactured, processed, packed or held in all registered facilities. Following a hazard analysis, firms must identify and implement preventive controls to significantly minimize or prevent the occurrence of such hazards. Examples of preventive controls include sanitation procedures for food contact surfaces; employee hygiene training; environmental monitoring to verify pathogen controls; a recall plan; supplier verification activities; and a food allergen control program.\n\nEven after the rulemaking process is complete, it will likely be some time before the FDA is fully equipped to enforce the new laws. The agency estimates that it will need at least 1,000 more inspectors\nand $1.4 billion over the next five years, and it is certainly not a sure thing that Congress will appropriate such funds given the current economic climate and calls for spending cuts and smaller government.\n\nThe first public comment period occurred in 2013, and the agency received tens of thousands of comments in that period. The FDA previously submitted their proposed regulations to the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) for review, and in that process the OMB weakened the regulations in a variety of ways.\n\nIn 2012, the FDA was sued by consumer groups the Center for Food Safety (CFS) and the Center for Environmental Health for its failure to meet deadlines. In settling the litigation, the agency agreed to deadlines in 2015 and 2016 for certain rules.\n\nNow, the FDA has planned to make available to the general public and to Congress significant progress they have made towards implementing the FSMA. In March 2012, the FDA’s Senior Advisor, Coordinated Outbreak Response and Evaluation Network, Sherri McGarry, on a blog reported the types of foods to be used in the pilot project on tracing products to prevent illnesses. The list includes tomatoes, frozen Kung Pao-style dishes, jarred peanut butter, and dry, packaged peanut/spice. Tomatoes both sliced and whole was chosen because of the significant number of outbreaks recorded; it mirrors a multifaceted food supply chain and it was recognized by majority of the food industry associations as the number one food product to be used in the pilot program.\n\nThe Frozen Kung Pao-style dishes have ingredients such as chicken, red pepper spice and peanut products which are foods that are involved in outbreaks, for this reason they are in the pilot project. In addition, it is supplied to diverse food chain distribution channels which could be involved in imported and domestic products. To increase the intricacy of the pilot project, the jarred peanut butter and dry, packaged spice peanut were included. This summer, the pilot projects results will be accomplished with hopes of developing a complete product tracing system with the information received.\n\nThe Safety Act was signed into law along with the Government Performance and Results Modernization Act of 2010. The cost for the first five years is projected to be $1.4 billion and is not yet fully funded.\n\nSince October 22, 2012, the updated food facility registration system by the US FDA is available. This update requires all facilities previously registered prior to October 1, 2012 to renew registration. Failure to do so is a prohibited act and will lead to refusal of entry for foreign products and illegal trade for domestic facilities. Every 2 years in even numbered years, every registered facility needs to renew its registration between October 1 and December 31. Registration is accepted by fax, mail and electronics means on the FDA food facility registration website.\n\nAs of January 22, 2014 there were 195,518 food facilities registered with the FDA.\n\nLarge trade organizations have joined public health advocates in supporting the bill, while groups aligned with individuals and small farms have generally opposed it. However, after Senate adoption of Jon Tester's amendment, which allows for the possible exemption of producers that sell less than $500,000 a year, many large food companies objected, arguing that the exemption puts consumers at risk.\n\nA year after enactment the agency has fallen behind on expected progress. It has yet to implement \"a specific timetable for issuing\" a process to create rule for science-based produce standards, has not completed rules for foreign supplier verification, and must still create a guidance that will help schools and childcare programs lessen allergy risks for school-age children.\n\nA similar set of New Zealand rules, the Food Bill 160-2, is moving towards passage since 2010. The primary effects expected are to tie New Zealand to Codex Alimentarius and the World Trade Organization permanently, although those international agreements will be constantly adjusted. Despite its 366 pages, Food Bill 160-2 cannot directly resolve many threats to food safety, as there is no added Produce traceability nor methods to control Antibiotic resistance. Controversy has been intense in NZ regarding introduction of genetic engineered plants and animals (GE); concern is that WTO and Codex will require opening up NZ to GE. The Soil & Health Association of New Zealand would not be able to complete their campaign towards making New Zealand organic by 2020.\n\nThere has been criticism that the FDA's proposed rule would be prohibitively expensive on the practice of alcoholic beverage facilities selling spent grain to farmers for animal food. Under current law, alcoholic beverages, such as beer, wine, cider and spirits, are exempt from the FDA's normal oversight of food products. The FDA will open up the rule to comments again this summer and then revise the proposal, which is due to be finalized by August 2015.\n\nThe proposed rules regulate the \"good manufacturing practice in manufacturing, processing, packing or holding of animal food\" and \"require that certain facilities establish and implement hazard analysis and risk-based preventive controls for food for animals\", but animal food at alcoholic beverage facilities would not be exempt pursuant to section 116 of FSMA since \"those spent grains are not alcoholic beverages themselves, and they are not in a prepackaged form that prevents any direct human contact with the food\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "215260", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=215260", "title": "Facial nerve", "text": "Facial nerve\n\nThe facial nerve is the seventh cranial nerve, or simply CN VII. It emerges from the pons of the brainstem, controls the muscles of facial expression, and functions in the conveyance of taste sensations from the anterior two-thirds of the tongue. The nerves typically travels from the pons through the facial canal in the temporal bone and exits the skull at the stylomastoid foramen. It arises from the brainstem from an area posterior to the cranial nerve VI (abducens nerve) and anterior to cranial nerve VIII (vestibulocochlear nerve).\n\nThe facial nerve also supplies preganglionic parasympathetic fibers to several head and neck ganglia.\n\nThe facial and intermediate nerves can be collectively referred to as the nervus intermediofacialis.\n\nThe path of the facial nerve can be divided into six segments.\n\n\n\nDistal to stylomastoid foramen, the following nerves branch off the facial nerve: \n\n\nThe cell bodies for the facial nerve are grouped in anatomical areas called nuclei or ganglia. The cell bodies for the afferent nerves are found in the geniculate ganglion for taste sensation. The cell bodies for muscular efferent nerves are found in the facial motor nucleus whereas the cell bodies for the parasympathetic efferent nerves are found in the superior salivatory nucleus.\n\nThe facial nerve is developmentally derived from the second pharyngeal arch, or branchial arch. The second arch is called the hyoid arch because it contributes to the formation of the lesser horn and upper body of the hyoid bone (the rest of the hyoid is formed by the third arch). The facial nerve supplies motor and sensory innervation to the muscles formed by the second pharyngeal arch, including the muscles of facial expression, the posterior belly of the digastric, stylohyoid and stapedius. The motor division of the facial nerve is derived from the basal plate of the embryonic pons, while the sensory division originates from the cranial neural crest.\n\nAlthough the anterior two thirds of the tongue are derived from the first pharyngeal arch, which gives rise to cranial nerve V, not all innervation of the tongue is supplied by CN V. The lingual branch of the mandibular division (V3) of CN V supplies non-taste sensation (pressure, heat, texture) from the anterior part of the tongue via general visceral afferent fibers. Nerve fibers for taste are supplied by the chorda tympani branch of cranial nerve VII via special visceral afferent fibers.\n\nThe main function of the facial nerve is motor control of all of the muscles of facial expression. It also innervates the posterior belly of the digastric muscle, the stylohyoid muscle, and the stapedius muscle of the middle ear. All of these muscles are striated muscles of branchiomeric origin developing from the 2nd pharyngeal arch.\n\nIn addition, the facial nerve receives taste sensations from the anterior two-thirds of the tongue via the chorda tympani. Taste sensation is sent to the gustatory portion (superior part) of the solitary nucleus. General sensation from the anterior two-thirds of tongue are supplied by afferent fibers of the third division of the fifth cranial nerve (V-3). These sensory (V-3) and taste (VII) fibers travel together as the lingual nerve briefly before the chorda tympani leaves the lingual nerve to enter the tympanic cavity (middle ear) via the petrotympanic fissure. It joins the rest of the facial nerve via the canaliculus for chorda tympani. The facial nerve then forms the geniculate ganglion, which contains the cell bodies of the taste fibers of chorda tympani and other taste and sensory pathways. From the geniculate ganglion, the taste fibers continue as the intermediate nerve which goes to the upper anterior quadrant of the fundus of the internal acoustic meatus along with the motor root of the facial nerve. The intermediate nerve reaches the posterior cranial fossa via the internal acoustic meatus before synapsing in the solitary nucleus.\n\nThe facial nerve also supplies a small amount of afferent innervation to the oropharynx below the palatine tonsil. There is also a small amount of cutaneous sensation carried by the nervus intermedius from the skin in and around the auricle (outer ear).\n\nThe facial nerve also supplies parasympathetic fibers to the submandibular gland and sublingual glands via chorda tympani. Parasympathetic innervation serves to increase the flow of saliva from these glands. It also supplies parasympathetic innervation to the nasal mucosa and the lacrimal gland via the pterygopalatine ganglion. The parasympathetic fibers that travel in the facial nerve originate in the superior salivatory nucleus.\n\nThe facial nerve also functions as the efferent limb of the corneal reflex.\n\nThe facial nerve carries axons of type GSA, general somatic afferent, to skin of the posterior ear.\n\nThe facial nerve also carries axons of type GVE, general visceral efferent, which innervate the sublingual, submandibular, and lacrimal glands, also mucosa of nasal cavity.\n\nAxons of type SVE, special visceral efferent, innervate muscles of facial expression, stapedius, the posterior belly of digastric, and the stylohyoid.\n\nThe axons of type SVA, special visceral afferent, provide taste to the anterior two-thirds of tongue via chorda tympani.\n\nPeople may suffer from acute facial nerve paralysis, which is usually manifested by facial paralysis.\nBell's palsy is one type of idiopathic acute facial nerve paralysis, which is more accurately described as a multiple cranial nerve ganglionitis that involves the facial nerve, and most likely results from viral infection and also sometimes as a result of Lyme disease. Iatrogenic Bell's Palsy may also be as a result of an incorrectly placed dental local-anesthetic (Inferior alveolar nerve block). Although giving the appearance of a hemi-plegic stroke, effects dissipate with the drug. When the facial nerve is permanently damaged due to a birth defect, trauma, or other disorder, surgery including a cross facial nerve graft or masseteric facial nerve transfer may be performed to help regain facial movement. Facial nerve decompression surgery is also sometimes carried out in certain cases of facial nerve compression.\n\nVoluntary facial movements, such as wrinkling the brow, showing teeth, frowning, closing the eyes tightly (inability to do so is called lagophthalmos)\n, pursing the lips and puffing out the cheeks, all test the facial nerve. There should be no noticeable asymmetry.\n\nIn an UMN lesion, called central seven, only the lower part of the face on the contralateral side will be affected, due to the bilateral control to the upper facial muscles (frontalis and orbicularis oculi).\n\nLower motor neuron lesions can result in a CNVII palsy (Bell's palsy is the idiopathic form of facial nerve palsy), manifested as both upper and lower facial weakness on the same side of the lesion.\n\nTaste can be tested on the anterior 2/3 of the tongue. This can be tested with a swab dipped in a flavoured solution, or with electronic stimulation (similar to putting your tongue on a battery).\n\nCorneal reflex. The afferent arc is mediated by the General Sensory afferents of the Trigeminal Nerve. The efferent arc occurs via the Facial Nerve. The reflex involves consensual blinking of both eyes in response to stimulation of one eye. This is due to the Facial Nerve's innervation of the muscles of facial expression, namely Orbicularis oculi, responsible for blinking. Thus, the corneal reflex effectively tests the proper functioning of both Cranial Nerves V and VII.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "59110099", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59110099", "title": "George Henry Alexander Clowes", "text": "George Henry Alexander Clowes\n\nGeorge Henry Alexander Clowes (1877-1958) was a doctor who worked as the first research director at Eli Lilly and Company. He was responsible for mobilizing Eli Lilly resources to mass-produce insulin, making it available for diabetics beginning in 1923. He was an art collector whose collection of paintings by European Old Masters was donated to the Indianapolis Museum of Art. His grandson, Alexander Whitehill Clowes, wrote \"The Doc and the Duchess\", a book about his grandfather’s life and legacy. He established The Clowes Fund in 1952 to fund art, education and social services. The Clowes Award for cancer research was named in his honor. \n"}
{"id": "307115", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=307115", "title": "Golyam Beglik", "text": "Golyam Beglik\n\nGolyam Beglik is a reservoir near the central parts of the Rhodope Mountains, Bulgaria. It was formerly officially called the Vasil Kolarov reservoir in honour of Vasil Kolarov, a communist political leader of the People's Republic of Bulgaria.\n\nThe reservoir Batak, Beglika, Shiroka Polyana and Golyam Beglik are the main tourist places in the region of Batak. The lakes are located to the north and to the south at high sea level.\n\nThere is a large diversity of game near the reservoir territory. There are bear, deer, foxes, wolves, as well as smaller animals such as rabbits, hedgehogs, squirrels. There are also many wild ducks and geese near its water areas. The place is well suited for developing hunting tourism that is traditional in the region.\n"}
{"id": "15998213", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15998213", "title": "Hamchoon Women's Clinic", "text": "Hamchoon Women's Clinic\n\nHamchoon Women's Clinic (함춘여성산부인과) is a specialized clinic for infertility, genetic testing, and general Medical and health organizations in South Korea care. It also started to provide a childbirth service in 2008 by opening a branch in Apgujeong-dong. Hamchoon is especially renowned for genetic testing for disorders such as Down Syndrome. The clinic also has a separate laboratory dedicated to infertility and genetics and a subsidiary for developing healthcare technology.\n\nThe current chairman of Hamchoon Women's Clinic is Dr. Kichul Kim.\n\nHamchoon Women's Clinic was founded in 1992 as a partnership hospital. The initial partners were Kichul Kim, Sohyun Park, and Eungi Min. In 1993, Doyoung Hwang joined the team. Hamchoon soon started to practice \"Triple Marker\", which was a genetic test for fetus. In 1997, Hamchoon established a laboratory dedicated to infertility, genetics, and medical technology. After a year from the establishment, the Hamchoon Laboratory announced the development of \"HIT\", a prenatal diagnosis package. Hamchoon Women's Clinic and its laboratory moved to a new building in Seocho, Seoul. In 2005, the clinic was recognized from Ministry of Health and Welfare as a legal embryo research institution.\n\nAs of 2008, the partnership consists of Kichul Kim and Doyoung Hwang. Two of the initial partners, Sohyun Park and Eungi Min, left the partnership.\n\nHamchoon Women's Clinic currently have 10 doctors specialized in OB/GYN and infertility. In addition, the clinic has specialists for anesthetic and radiology.\n"}
{"id": "44573945", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44573945", "title": "Health Score", "text": "Health Score\n\nHealth Score is a scoring system used by several mobile health companies in various ways to track an individual's health via Quantified Self and the help of mobile applications, social networking and elements of gamification. According to them when tracked over time, it offers a good directional indicator of how the users health and well-being is evolving over time. The scoring engine varies considerably from one company to another, and in some cases, the scoring engine is trademarked and/or patented, such as in the case of Dacadoo. Health is invisible and therefore, all health scores in use have one thing in common: they want to capture and measure health and wellness and make it visible.\n\nHealth is invisible and intangible. The basic premise of a health scoring concept is that what you can measure, you can manage. If you can measure health and wellness good enough as an indicator, then you can start working with it. None of the available health scores is in medical diagnosis, they're all lifestyle-products where the health score in use is to be understood as an indicator, a number that helps you to work with it.\nThe score typically moves up or down indicating improvement, when it moves up, and vice versa. The simpler health scores available are more static in nature and provide a number based on some inputs provided. The more sophisticated health scores are dynamic and function in real-time, moving (such as exercise, nutrition, stress and sleep) change.\nMost health scores claim they are based on scientific data. The simpler models use one or a few models, the more sophisticated health scores claim to include a vast amount of models and person-years of clinical data.\n\nSome health scores use in addition to static questionnaires also dynamic and ongoing data, such as captured and tracked by fitness or activity trackers or applications for smartphones, For instance, exercise can be tracked automatically by using a mobile app for smartphones to track the activity, or by using fitness tracking apps or devices from the supplier of the health score solution, or by connecting popular fitness tracking apps such as RunKeeper and activity tracking devices such as Fitbit or UP Jawbone step counters, etc.\nIn the past, available information was limited and lifestyle adjustments were largely made only once a health problem was detected, and then under the guidance of healthcare professionals. Today due partly to the availability of electronic mass media there is a trend among the population to maintain their health on their own terms. This seems to be precipitating a shift away from the reactive model of health to a more proactive approach where the individual works towards the maintenance of their wellness before problems arise. This shift in attitudes is said to have broad implications for both public health and individual companies. Improved health would logically lead to reduced healthcare costs and increase workplace productivity.\n\nA wide array of technologies are now available that allow data to be collected on various components of wellness many of them using a variant of the Health Scoring system. Devices for measuring physical attributes, such as blood pressure, blood glucose, and total cholesterol are also commonly used by patients with chronic diseases such as diabetes or hypertension. Furthermore, devices that can be used by healthy individuals to monitor exercise and energy expenditure are increasingly popular, and range from simple heart rate monitors or step counters to more elaborate computerized exercise machines. These tools provide data on the user’s performance and many can upload the data to further systems to be processed. Undoubtedly, the largest growth area has been in apps, facilitated by the widespread use of tablets and smartphones. Although some of these apps may be gimmicks, many are said to be validated genuine tools to assist in improving health and wellness.\n\nSome of the Health Score using companies such as Fitocracy have grown to over one million users or more by focusing progress based on what's known as gamification as well as by celebrity exposure with the likes of Arnold Schwarzenegger promoting their products.\n\nThe large majority of offerings with health scores is in the lifestyle segment and not in medical diagnosis, therefore prospective clinical trials to scientifically prove whether a score is accurate or not, are often missing.\n\nA single integer measuring wellness and health outcomes is subject to many unknown variables and incomplete data.\n\n"}
{"id": "28889542", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28889542", "title": "Health of Frédéric Chopin", "text": "Health of Frédéric Chopin\n\nFrédéric Chopin's disease and the reason for his premature death at age 39 were frequently debated for over 150 years. Although he was diagnosed with and treated for tuberculosis throughout his lifetime, a number of alternative diagnoses had been suggested since his death in 1849. A comprehensive review of the possible causes of Chopin's illness was published in 2011. An autopsy on Chopin's heart, for which permission was finally given in 2017, indicated the likely cause of death as pericarditis, caused by tuberculosis.\n\nFrom childhood, Frédéric Chopin was sickly and under medical care. He showed intolerance to fatty foods, especially pork – these caused stomach aches, diarrhea and weight loss. Later he endeavored to avoid such symptoms with diet; he obtained substantial improvement with ingredients such as honey and oat bran. Chopin attained a height of — the 25th percentile; and as an adult weighed under — below the 3rd percentile.\n\nChopin is known to have had no facial hair at the age of 22; as he wrote in the winter of 1832, he grew sideburns on only one side of his face. In 1826 he was sick for six months, suffering from enlarged cervical lymph nodes and severe headaches. In 1830, a chronic cold caused nasal swelling which prompted him to cancel planned concerts in Vienna.\n\nIn 1831, while in Paris, the 21-year-old Chopin had his first episode of hemoptysis (coughing up of blood). In 1835, he suffered a severe two-month bout of laryngitis and bronchitis, and the resulting interruption in his correspondence with Warsaw gave rise to gossip that he had died.\n\nIn early youth, he treated himself with belladonna. In the final decade of his life, he treated the coughing fits from which he had suffered his entire life with a blend of sugar and opium. Chopin coughed up an abundant amount of mucus, particularly around 10 a.m. He occasionally drank alcohol, sometimes smoked and – as some authors noted – suffered the consequences of inhaling others' smoke while enjoying the company of his Parisian friends. In the last year of his life, he endured diarrheas, caused either by cor pulmonale or by exocrine pancreatic insufficiency (see below).\n\nOn 17 October 1849, at 2 a.m., after a sudden coughing fit, Chopin died at the age of 39. His physician, Jean Cruveilhier, confirmed his death by holding a mirror to Chopin's mouth and by illuminating his pupils with light from a candle. Pursuant to Chopin's will, Dr. Cruveilhier, a renowned professor of pathology, carried out an autopsy. The postmortem findings were also communicated to Chopin's sister Ludwika, Adolphe Gutmann and Jane Stirling. The postmortem report was destroyed either in the Paris fire of 1871 or during World War II. The death certificate stated the cause of Chopin's death as tuberculosis of the lungs and larynx. However, Wojciech Grzymała, in a letter to Auguste Leo dated October 1849, wrote that the autopsy had not confirmed tubercular pulmonary changes and that his actual disease was unknown to contemporary medicine.\n\nIt is uncertain how many physicians Chopin had; various authors have given the number as 14, 31 or \"nearly 50\". In addition, the composer had friendly relations with other physicians, who may also have occasionally provided him with assistance.\n\nIn Warsaw, Chopin's physicians were Jan Fryderyk Wilhelm Malcz, Franciszek Girardot and Fryderyk Adolf Roemer. In Vienna, Chopin was provided medical care by Johann Malfatti. Chopin's physicians in Paris included Aleksander Hofman, Jean-Jacques Molin, André François Cauviere, Jan Matuszyński, Adam Raciborski, Pierre Gaubert, Gustave Papet and Coste. During his 1848 stay in London – Mallan and James Clark. In Paris, in 1848–49, he was treated by Léon Simon, Fraenkel, David Koreff, Louis and Roth. Chopin's last physician was Jean Cruveilhier.\n\nLittle is known about the health of Frédéric’s father, Nicolas Chopin, who lived to the age of 73 and suffered several times from respiratory infections. The composer's mother had no chronic illness and reached the age of 87.\n\nOf Frédéric’s three sisters, Izabela died at age 70 and had no illnesses; Ludwika suffered from recurrent respiratory infections and died at 47; the youngest, Emilia, was of frail health from earliest childhood. Emilia suffered from recurrent coughs and dyspnea; at 11 she began having hemorrhages from the upper gastrointestinal tract, and she died of a massive hemorrhage at 14.\n\nChopin was diagnosed with tuberculosis and treated for it in accordance with contemporary practice, including bloodletting and purging. Tuberculosis figured in his death certificate, despite the alleged absence of typical organ changes. Critics of alternative hypotheses about Chopin's disease point out the abundant evidence for tuberculosis. Chronic coughs and hemoptysis are common symptoms of tuberculosis; complications may include both pericarditis, causing right-heart insufficiency, and bronchiectasis, manifesting in productive cough and respiratory failure.\n\nA 20-year history of hemoptysis is rare in tuberculosis but not impossible. Similarly, cavernous tuberculosis is rare in childhood, but it cannot be excluded in the case of Emilia Chopin. Frédéric could have contracted tuberculosis from his younger sister.\n\nA monograph on historic methods of treating tuberculosis has discussed individual treatments on the example of Chopin, since his history well illustrates views on treating tuberculosis in the mid-19th century.\n\nAttempts were made to gain permission to extract a small amount of tissue from Chopin's heart in order to test it for a range of specific conditions. Dr. Michael Witt of Warsaw's Institute of Molecular and Cell Biology made such a request in 2008, but permission was denied by the Polish government. In 2017, an autopsy was at last performed on Chopin's alcohol-preserved heart, under the direction of Professor Witt of the Polish Academy of Sciences. It revealed that a rare case of pericarditis, caused by complications from chronic tuberculosis, was the likely cause of Chopin's death.\n\nA number of alternative hypotheses about the cause of Chopin's death flourished over the years.\n\nThe hypothesis that Chopin suffered from cystic fibrosis was first presented by O’Shea in 1987. Chopin possibly was sexually active from early adulthood, but left no descendants. Some authors considered this evidence for infertility, which favoured the cystic fibrosis hypothesis.\n\nA hypothesis of alpha 1-antitrypsin deficiency was proposed by Kuzemko in 1994. \n\nMitral stenosis was a possible, if unlikely, cause for the artist’s complaints and was discussed by Kubba and Young in 1998. The most important argument against this hypothesis is the absence of evidence that Chopin suffered from rheumatic fever in childhood, which is the most common cause of mitral valve stenosis.\n\nKubba and Young pointed out a number of other conceivable, if unlikely, diagnoses, besides cystic fibrosis and alpha 1-antitripsin deficiency: eosinophilic granulomatosis with polyangiitis, allergic bronchopulmonary aspergillosis, hypogammaglobulinemia, idiopathic pulmonary haemosiderosis, lung abscesses, and pulmonary arteriovenous malformations.\n\nChopin's biographers have often touched on the subject of depression, but the topic has rarely been broached by psychiatrists. One of the few studies of Chopin’s mental condition is a 1920 work by Bronislaw Onuf-Onufrowicz. The author cited biographers concerning Chopin's character and psyche and pointed out some symptoms that might indicate a manic-depressive disorder or dementia praecox (now termed schizophrenia), but he emphasized the absence of evidence for severe psychosis and the fact that single symptoms may only suggest a predisposition to such mental illnesses.\n"}
{"id": "13772997", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13772997", "title": "Healthcare Services Specification Project", "text": "Healthcare Services Specification Project\n\nThe Healthcare Services Specification Project (HSSP) is a standards development effort to create health industry service-oriented architecture (SOA) standards supportive of the health care market sector. HSSP is a jointly sponsored activity operating within the Health Level Seven (HL7) and the Object Management Group (OMG) standards group. Formally beginning as a collaboration between the HL7 Service-oriented Architecture Special Interest Group and the OMG Healthcare Domain Task Force, HSSP is developing healthcare middleware standards addressing interoperability challenges.\n\nThe activity is an effort to create common “service interface specifications” that ultimately can be tractable within a Health IT context. The stated objective of the HSSP project is to create useful, usable healthcare standards that define the functions, semantics, and technology bindings supportive of system-level interoperability. To the extent possible, HSSP specifications complement existing work and standards.\n\nA key tenet to the HSSP approach is to focus on practical needs, capitalizing on open industry participation and maximizing contributions from industry talent interested in engaging.\n\nBy design, HSSP specifications are applicable for use in multiple use contexts, including inter-enterprise, intra-enterprise, intra-product, and intra-implementation. In other words, nothing inherent in the standard work deliberately precludes their use in any targeted system setting.\n\nThe following is the stated Mission and Charter of the HSSP project, used with permission. \n\"\nRecognizing the need for specifications for services to support healthcare IT as part of national infrastructures (such as US NHII, Australia’s HealthConnect and Finland's Terveyshanke), Health Level Seven and the Object Management Group have forged this agreement to collaborate to the advantage of the health domain sector. This charter outlines high-level distribution of responsibilities and separation of concerns specifically related to this services effort. Note that this joint effort between HL7 and OMG is not exclusive. Either organization may engage in independent efforts or similar joint efforts with others.\nThis project is a collaborative effort between HL7 and OMG to identify and document service specifications, functionality, and conformance supportive and relevant to healthcare IT stakeholders and resulting in real-world implementations. \n\nAs part of this collaborative effort:\n\nHL7 and OMG shall jointly identify the service candidates for specification and prioritize and select candidate services for specification and implementation, and jointly allocate functions to services. OMG members shall provide expertise in distributed architecture and implementation to HL7 activities to positively impact the selection of services and allocation of functions. HL7 members shall engage in the OMG RFP process to ensure consistency with the functional requirements.\n\nAs a project and through its presence in other organizations, the HSSP will provide an umbrella structure under which various subgroups will be chartered to carry out specific tasks in conjunction and under the auspices of these organizations, such as definition of methodology, architecture and specific services. The HSSP additionally will facilitate between organizations to provide the tools, knowledge, methodologies, or viewpoints deemed necessary for them to fulfill their purpose. The responsibilities of the main HSSP will be to manage the subgroups and verify their charters, as well as provide cohesive vision and any appropriate administrative tasks. \n\nHSSP specification work is divided into two foundational components: functional specifications (manifested as Service Functional Models) and technical specifications (resulting in technology adoptions). The functional specification work is being originated within health industry standards communities, such as HL7 and CEN. The functional models enumerate \"what\" capabilities are to be supported but not \"how\" they are supported. The technical specification work details exactly how those functions are manifested and ultimately realized in a technology platform.\n\nThe intention behind splitting the standard into two work products is to facilitate and improve involvement from different communities, leveraging each to their strengths. To date, HL7 has been leading in identifying standardization priorities, elaborating the functions desired into Service Functional Models, and in defining conformance criteria that would be used to assess compliance. The OMG has been leading the technical specification process as part of their Technology Adoption Process.\n\nThe OMG process requires participants to make commitments to implement standards as working software, ensuring that the technical specifications are used and available. During implementation of these technical specifications, errors and shortcomings of adopted Service Functional Models are captured, logged, and ultimately incorporated into subsequent versions of the Service Functional Models as part of a continuous process improvement approach.\n\nPrior to establishing HSSP as a moniker, the activity began informally as an informal group to discuss issues pertaining to SOA and interoperability in a health context. Meeting concurrently with regularly scheduled HL7 Working Group meetings, HSSP operated in this form for several years until June 2005. In June a meeting was hosted in Salt Lake City by the U.S. Veterans Health Administration to establish a formal direction for the group and to initiate steps to formalize its activities. \n\nIn January 2006, Health Level Seven accepted the charter of the Service-oriented Architecture Special Interest Group (SOA SIG), which was to become the hosting body for HSSP within the HL7 organization. The OMG Healthcare Domain Task Force had already agreed to sponsor the activity. The HSSP project was formally chartered in January, 2006, operating under a board-level agreement forged between Health Level Seven and the Object Management Group.\n\n\nHSSP Wiki \n\n"}
{"id": "12256809", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12256809", "title": "Healthcare in Argentina", "text": "Healthcare in Argentina\n\nArgentina's health care system is composed of a universal health care system and a private system. The government maintains a system of public medical facilities that are universally accessible to everyone in the country, but formal sector workers are also obligated to participate in one of about 300 labor union-run health insurance schemes, which offer differing levels of coverage. Private medical facilities and health insurance also exist in the country. The Ministry of Health (MSAL), oversees all three subsectors of the health care system and is responsible for setting of regulation, evaluation and collecting statistics.\n\nIn 2015, Argentina spent 8% of its GDP on health care expenditures.\n\nIn January 2013, the Federal Registry of Health Establishments (Registro Federal de Establecimientos de Salud - REFES) indicated there were 5,012 health establishments operating in Argentina, including hospitals, clinics, and hospices, amongst others. The majority of the establishments (70% or 3,494 establishments) pertain to the private sector.\n\nThe Social Security Sector is funded and managed by \"Obras Sociales\" (Insurance Plans), umbrella organizations for Argentine worker's unions. There are over 300 Obras Sociales in Argentina, each chapter being organized according to the occupation of the beneficiary. These organizations vary greatly in quality and effectiveness. The top 30 chapters hold 73% of the beneficiaries and 75% of resources Health Care in Latin America. MSAS has established a Solidarity Redistribution Fund (FSR) to try to address these beneficiary inequities. Only workers employed in the formal sector are covered under Obras Sociales insurance schemes and after Argentina’s economic crisis of 2001, the number of people covered by these fell slightly (as unemployment increased and employment in the informal sector rose). In 1999, there were 8.9 million beneficiaries covered by \"Obras Sociales\".\n\nThere is a body within the social security sector in Argentina called \"The Superintendence of Health Services\" \"La Superintendencia de Servicios de Salud\", which is in charge of setting the minimum coverage package that is included in the health insurance of every single health-care institution. This allows for a more transparent set of criteria for decision-making process within a sector of the Argentinean health-care system.\n\nPrior to 2000, workers did not have the freedom of choosing which \"Obra Social\" they contributed to and were covered by. This situation gave rise to some problems; e. g. a teacher living in a city where the gastronomy workers' \"Obra Social\" provided better care than the teachers union's \"Obra Social\" could not freely switch plans even when it would have been in their best interest. This was mended in the year 2000 when National Decree 446/2000 was signed into law which established changes to the regulation of \"Obras Sociales,\" allowing for workers to choose freely between \"Obras Sociales\" administered by different workers unions (although they are still obligated to adhere to one of the \"Obras\" and make regular payments).\n\nThe private health care sector in Argentina is characterized by great heterogeneity and is made up of a great number of fragmented entities and small networks; it consists of over 200 organizations and covers approximately 2 million Argentines. Private insurance often overlaps with other forms of health care coverage, making it difficult to estimate the degree to which beneficiaries are dependent on the public and private sectors. According to a 2000 report by the IRBC, foreign competition has increased in Argentina’s private sector, with Swiss, American and other Latin American health care providers entering the market in recent years. This has been accompanied by little formal regulation.\n\nA system of public medical facilities is maintained by the government. The public system is highly decentralized, as it is administered at the provincial level; often primary care will be regulated autonomously by each city. Since 2001, the number of Argentines relying on public services has seen an increase. According to 2000 figures, 37.4% of Argentines had no health insurance, 48.8% were covered by \"Obras Sociales\", 8.6% had private insurance plans, and 3.8% were covered by both \"Obras Sociales\" and private insurance schemes. Currently, about half of the population uses the public system.\n\nPatients need to apply for free care at public institutions and undergo a lengthy test in which they may be rejected at some hospitals. The rejection rate is usually 30-40%. Public hospitals in Argentina who have not converted to managed care principles are facing an influx of patients covered by privatized social security funds. Public hospitals in the city of Buenos Aires reported about 1.25 million outpatient visits by patients covered by the privately administered social security fund for retired person. The Provincial and Municipal Health Secretariats and Social works through the Superintendence of Health Services are in charge of allocation of resources and setting priorities. The Ministry of Health through its Sub-secretariat of Promotion and Prevention are in charge of Public Health Interventions. Local Health Secretariats in the provinces and municipalities through the department of purchases in the public sub-sector and individual social works are in charge of the reimbursement of new drugs.\n\nElderly people face barriers due to copayments, private practitioners' refusal to see them and also because of nonpayment by the social security fund.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1101623", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1101623", "title": "Human waste", "text": "Human waste\n\nHuman waste (or human excreta) refers to the waste products of the human digestive system and the human metabolism, namely feces and urine. As part of a sanitation system that is in place, human waste is collected, transported, treated and disposed of or reused by one method or another, depending on the type of toilet being used, ability by the users to pay for services and other factors. \n\nThe sanitation systems in place differ vastly across the world, with many people in developing countries having to resort to open defecation where human waste is deposited in the environment, for lack of other options. People in developed countries tend to use flush toilets where the human waste is mixed with water and transported to sewage treatment plants. \n\nChildren's excreta can be disposed of in diapers and mixed with municipal solid waste. Diapers are also sometimes dumped directly into the environment, leading to public health risks.\n\nThe term \"human waste\" is used in the general media to mean several things, such as sewage, sewage sludge, blackwater - in fact anything that may contain some human feces. In the stricter sense of the term, human waste is in fact human excreta, i.e. urine and feces, with or without water being mixed in. For example, dry toilets collect human waste without the addition of water.\n\nHuman waste is considered a biowaste, as it is a vector for both viral and bacterial diseases. It can be a serious health hazard if it gets into sources of drinking water. The World Health Organization (WHO) reports that nearly 2.2 million people die annually from diseases caused by contaminated water. A major accomplishment of human civilization has been the reduction of disease transmission via human waste through the practice of hygiene and sanitation, which can employ a variety of different technologies.\n\nEven high-mountains are not free from human waste. Each year, millions of mountaineers visit high-mountain areas. They generate tonnes of feces and urine annually which cause environmental pollution. The authorities of mountain regions, especially in the Global South countries do not pay enough attention to the problem of excreta from mountaineers. Human feces pose a greater threat to the mountain environment than uncontrolled deposit of urine, due to the higher pathogen content of feces.\n\nMethods of processing depend on the type of human waste: \nThe amount of water mixed with human waste can be reduced by the use of waterless urinals and composting toilets and by recycling greywater. The most common method of human waste treatment in rural areas where municipal sewage systems are unavailable is the use of septic tank systems. In remote rural places without sewage or septic systems, small populations allow for the continued use of honey buckets and sewage lagoons (see anaerobic lagoon) without the threat of disease presented by places with denser populations. Bucket toilets are used by rural villages in Alaska where, due to permafrost, conventional waste treatment systems cannot be utilized.\n\nHuman waste in the form of wastewater (sewage) is used to irrigate and fertilize fields in many parts of the developing world where fresh water is unavailable. There is great potential for wastewater agriculture to produce more food for consumers in urban areas, as long as there is sufficient education about the dangers of eating such food uncooked.\n\n"}
{"id": "17302116", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17302116", "title": "Hyperspermia", "text": "Hyperspermia\n\nIn medicine, hyperspermia is a condition in which a male has an abnormally large ejaculate (or semen) volume. Males with hyperspermia usually have higher sex drives than males that do not. It is the opposite of hypospermia, and is generally defined in humans when the ejaculate is below 1.5 ml.\n"}
{"id": "2801308", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2801308", "title": "Hypogammaglobulinemia", "text": "Hypogammaglobulinemia\n\nHypogammaglobulinemia is a problem with the immune system in which not enough gamma globulins are produced in the blood (thus \"hypo-\" + \"gamma\" + \"globulin\" + \"-emia\"). This results in a lower antibody count, which impairs the immune system, increasing risk of infection. Hypogammaglobulinemia may result from a variety of primary genetic immune system defects, such as common variable immunodeficiency, or it may be caused by secondary effects such as medication, blood cancer, or poor nutrition, or loss of gamma globulins in urine, as in nonselective glomerular proteinuria. Patients with hypogammaglobulinemia have reduced immune function; important considerations include avoiding use of live vaccines, and take precautionary measures when traveling to regions with endemic disease or poor sanitation such as receiving immunizations, taking antibiotics abroad, drinking only safe or boiled water, arranging appropriate medical cover in advance of travel, and ensuring continuation of any immunoglobulin infusions needed. \n\nThe presenting feature of hypogammaglobulinemia is usually a clinical history of recurrent, chronic, or atypical infections. These infections include but are not limited to: bronchitis, ear infections, meningitis, pneumonia, sinus infections, and skin infections. Such infections can potentially damage organs, leading to severe complications. Other symptoms pf hypogammaglobulinemia include chronic diarrhea and complications from receiving live vaccines. Certain symptoms of chronic damage may be related to recurrent infection. For example, shortness of breath, chronic cough, and sputum production may indicate the presence of bronchiectasis. Sinus pain, nasal discharge, and postnasal drip may indicate the presence of chronic sinusitis. Diarrhea and steatorrhea may indicate malabsorption. \n\nBabies with transient hypogammaglobulinemia (THI) usually become symptomatic 6 to 12 months after birth, with the symptoms usually consisting of frequent ear, sinus, and lung infections. Other symptoms include respiratory tract infections, food allergies, eczema, urinary tract infections, and intestinal infections. \n\nHypogammaglobulinemia can be caused by either a primary or secondary immunodeficiency. Primary immunodeficiencies are caused by a mutation or series of mutations to the genome. For example, a study from 2012 found that a compound heterozygous deleterious mutation in the CD21 gene is associated with hypogammaglobulinemia. Genetic analysis revealed the patient was heterozygous for CD21, with the paternally inherited allele (also shared with one sister) having a disrupted splicing donor site at exon 6, while the maternally inherited allele had a mutation resulting in a premature stop codon in exon 13. Neither mutation was found in 100 healthy control subjects, showing the rarity of the mutations. Around 300 different genes in total have been identified which account for different forms of primary immunodeficiency (PID). These different forms can affect different parts of the immune system, including immunoglobulin production. Primary immunodeficiencies usually have a delay of several years between initial clinical presentation and diagnosis. Some primary immune deficiencies include ataxia-telangiectasia (A-T), autosomal recessive agammaglobulinemia (ARA), common variable immunodeficiency (CVID), hyper-IgM syndromes, IgG subclass deficiency, isolated non-IgG immunoglobulin deficiencies, severe combined immunodeficiency (SCID), specific antibody deficiency (SAD), Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome, or x-linked agammaglobulinemia. CVID is the most common form of primary immunodeficiency. SCID is considered a medical emergency and suspected cases require immediate specialist center referral for diagnosis and treatment. It is more often that hypogammaglobulinemia develops as a result of another condition, which are called secondary or acquired immune deficiencies. These include blood cancers such as chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), lymphoma, or myeloma, HIV, nephrotic syndrome, poor nutrition, protein-losing enteropathy, getting an organ transplant, or radiation therapy. This also includes medications which can cause hypogammaglobulinemia such as corticosteroids, chemotherapy drugs, or antiseizure medication. \nProtocols for different forms of primary immunodeficiency vary significantly. The aim of treatments implemented by specialist centers is usually to reduce the risk of complications. One method of treatment is by parenteral administration of gamma globulins, either monthly intravenously,subcutaneously, or more recently, by weekly self-administered hypodermoclysis. In either case, mild allergic reactions are common, and are usually manageable with oral diphenhydramine. Evidence comparing immunoglobulin replacement with no treatment is limited, and guidelines for treatment are therefore mainly derived from observational studies. Antibiotics are also frequently used as treatment. Other standard forms of treatment include a form of enzyme replacement therapy called PEG-ADA, and antibiotic treatment given for the prevention of Pneumocystis pneumonia. \n\nOne emerging therapy is hematopoietic stem cell transplantation, which has been considered standard treatment for many combined primary immunodeficiencies including SCID, CD40 deficiency, CD40 ligand deficiency, and Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome, but has been extended to secondary immunodeficiencies over the last two decades. Another emerging therapy is gene therapy, which has been used to treat X-linked SCID, SCID due to adenosine deaminase deficiency, and chronic granulomatous disease. \n\nScreening of immunoglobulin levels in relatives of CVID and IgA patients finds a familial inheritance rate of 10% to 20%. In cases where a carrier of such a mutation would like to have children, preimplantation genetic diagnosis (PGD) has been offered. PGD is defined as the testing of pre-implantation stage embryos or oocytes for genetic defects. It requires in vitro fertilization, embryo biopsy, and either fluorescent in situ hybridization or polymerase chain reaction on a singular cell, making it a complex procedure. While some question the ethicality of such artificial selection, it is generally seen as an important alternative to pre-natal diagnosis. Prevention of secondary immunodeficiency involves monitoring patients carefully with high risk of developing hypogammaglobulinemia. This entails measuring immunoglobulin levels in patients with hematologic malignancy, or those receiving chemotherapy or immunosuppressive therapy such as rituximab.\n\nOne study of the genomic variation in the Hepatitis C virus in patients with and without hypogammaglobulinemia found that patients with hypogammaglobulinemia had fewer nucleotide substitutions per year than the control patients, suggesting that in the absence of selective pressure caused by the immune system, the frequency of the occurrence of genetic variation in the major viral species is reduced. They used five control patients and four patients with CVID, a particularly severe form of hypogammaglobulinemia. The control patients had a mean nucleotide rate-of-change of 6.954 nucleotide substitutions per year while the patients with CVID had 0.415 nucleotide substitutions per year. While the mutations still occur in the patients with CVID, they tend to remain as a minor species in the absence of immune selection. \n\nIn 2015, a journal article by McDermott et. al reported on a case in which chromothripsis, normally a catastrophic event in which chromosomes undergo massive deletion and rearrangement within a single stem cell’s DNA, cured a patient with WHIM syndrome, a primary immunodeficiency disease. WHIM is autosomal dominant and is caused by a gain-of-function mutation of the chemokine receptor CXCR4. The mutation in CXCR4 increases signaling because it disrupts negative regulatory elements usually present, creating exaggerated functions of the receptor. The term “WHIM” is an acronym for the main manifestations of the disease: warts, hypogammaglobulinemia, recurrent infections, and myelokathexis. Myelokathexis is impaired escape of mature neutrophils from bone marrow, causing neutropenia. Patients with WHIM syndrome have severely reduced peripheral blood B cells and some reduction in peripheral blood T cells and monocytes. (McDermott). The cured patient, designated WHIM-09, is a white female presented at age 58. She also presented with her two daughters, WHIM-10 (age 21) and WHIM-11 (age 23). Both daughters fulfilled all of the clinical criteria for WHIM syndrome, while WHIM-09 did not. She reported that she had had many serious infections from childhood until age 38 but had had none in the past 20 years. She has fulfilled none of the criteria for WHIM syndrome except for mild hypogammaglobulinemia since then. WHIM-09 was the first patient ever described with myelokathexis, the “M” in WHIM syndrome, and her parents and siblings showed no sign of the syndrome. Therefore, the evidence is compatible with a WHIM mutation occurring de novo in patient WHIM-09, an autosomal dominant transition to two of her three daughters, and a spontaneous and complete remission in WHIM-09. This provides the first evidence that chromothripsis may result in clinical benefit, in particular, the cure of a genetic disease. If a cell with chromothripsis dies, it is clinically undetectable, making the true frequency of its occurrence hard to determine. Therefore, it is only detected if it acquires a strong selective advantage creating a clinically apparent clonal population harboring the same pattern of deletions and arrangements. This results in either cancer, or if the location is fortuitous, the cure of a genetic condition as occurred in patient WHIM-09. \n\n\"Hypogammaglobulinemia\" is largely synonymous with \"agammaglobulinemia\". When the latter term is used (as in \"X-linked agammaglobulinemia\") it implies that gamma globulins are not merely reduced, but completely absent. Modern assays have allowed most agammaglobulinemias to be more precisely defined as hypogammaglobulinemias, but the distinction is not usually clinically relevant.\n\n\"Hypogammaglobulinemia\" is distinguished from dysgammaglobulinemia, which is a reduction in some types of gamma globulins, but not others.\n\nEarly detection and treatment of hypogammaglobulinemia is known to reduce rates of morbidity and the chance of long-term pulmonary complications. Evidence shows that there is an association between achieving higher IgG levels and reduced infection frequency. If hypogammaglobulinemia remains undetected and untreated, outcomes are generally poor, especially if chronic lung damage or bronchiectasis has occurred. Unfortunately, the diagnosis of hypogammaglobulinemia is often significantly delayed.\n"}
{"id": "16977000", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16977000", "title": "Inequality in disease", "text": "Inequality in disease\n\nSocial epidemiology focuses on the patterns in morbidity and mortality rates that emerge as a result of social characteristics. While an individual's lifestyle choices or family history may place him or her at an increased risk for developing certain illnesses, there are social inequalities in health that cannot be explained by individual factors. Variations in health outcomes in the United States are attributed to several social characteristics, such as gender, race, socioeconomic status, the environment, and educational attainment. Inequalities in any or all of these social categories can contribute to health disparities, with some groups placed at an increased risk for acquiring chronic diseases than others.\n\nFor example, cardiovascular disease is the leading cause of death in the United States, followed closely by cancer, with the fifth most deadly being diabetes. The general risk factors associated with these diseases include obesity and poor diet, tobacco and alcohol use, physical inactivity, and access to medical care and health information. Although it may seem that many these risk factors arise solely from individual health choices, such a view neglects the structural patterns in the choices that individuals make. Consequently, a person's likelihood for developing heart disease, cancer, or diabetes is in part correlated with social factors. Among all racial groups, individuals who are impoverished or low income, have lower levels of educational attainment, and/or live in lower-income neighborhoods are all more likely to develop chronic diseases, such as heart disease, cancer, and diabetes.\n\nIn the United States and Europe, up until the 19th century, women tended to die at an earlier age than men. This was largely due to the risks involved in pregnancy and childbirth. However, in the late 19th century there was a shift in life expectancy and women started to live longer than men. Notably, this is partly explained by biological factors. For instance, there is a cross-cultural trend that male fetal mortality rates are higher than female fetal mortality rates. Additionally, estrogen decreases the risk of females acquiring heart disease by lowering the amount of cholesterol in the blood, while testosterone suppresses the immune system in males and puts them at risk for acquiring serious illnesses. However, biological differences do not fully account for the large gender gap in the health outcomes of men and women. Social factors play a large role in gender disparities in health.\n\nOne of the main factors that contributes to the decreased life expectancy of males is their propensity to engage in risk-taking behaviors. Some commonly cited examples include heavy drinking, illicit drug use, violence, drunk driving, not wearing helmets, and smoking. These behaviors contribute to injuries that may lead to premature death in males. In particular, the effect of risk-taking behavior on health is especially visible in the case of smoking. As smoking rates have fallen in the United States overall, less men engage in this behavior and the life expectancy gap between men and women has slightly decreased as a result.\n\nThe behaviors of men and women also vary in regards to diet and exercise, leading to differential health outcomes . On average, men exercise more than women, but their diet is less nutritious. Consequently, men are more likely to be overweight, while women are at greater risk for obesity. Exposure to violence is another social factor that has an influence on health. In general, women have a higher likelihood of experiencing sexual and intimate partner violence, while men are twice as likely to die from suicide or homicide.\n\nMarkedly, the impact of gender on health becomes especially salient in different socioeconomic contexts. In the United States, there is a large economic gender inequality with many economically disadvantaged women occupying much fewer positions of power than men. According to the Panel Study of Income Dynamics, \"among adults with the strongest attachment to the labor force, only 9.6% of women earned more than $50,000 annually, compared with 44.5% of men.\" This gendered economic inequality is partly responsible for the gender-health paradox: the general trend that women live longer than men, but experience a greater degree of non-life-threatening chronic illnesses over the course of a lifetime. A low socioeconomic status in women contributes to feelings of a lack of personal control over the events in their lives, increased stress, and low self-esteem. Perpetual states of stress inflict damage on the bodies and minds of women, placing them at risk for physical ailments, such as heart disease and arthritis, as well mental health disorders, such as depression.\n\nAnother significant social factor is that men and women deal with their illnesses in different ways. Women generally have strong support networks and are able to rely on others for emotional support, with the potential to improve their states of health. In contrast, men are less likely to have strong support networks, they have fewer doctor visits, and often cope with their illnesses on their own. Also, men and women express pain in different ways. Researchers have observed that women openly express feelings of pain, while men are more reserved in this regard and prefer to appear tough even when they experience severe mental or physical suffering. This finding suggests that this is due to socialization processes. Women are taught to be submissive and emotional, while men are taught to be strong, powerful figures that do not show their emotions. The social stigma associated with expressions of pain prevents men from admitting their suffering to others, making it more difficult to overcome the pain.\n\nMoreover, neighborhood effects have a greater influence on women than men. For instance, research findings suggest that women living in impoverished neighborhoods are more likely to experience obesity, while this effect is not as strong for men. The physical environment also generally impacts a woman's self-rated health. This effect can be explained by the fact that women spend more time at home than their male counterparts, as a result of higher unemployment rates, and therefore may be more exposed to negative environmental characteristics that take a toll on their health.\n\nFinally, gender effects also vary with race, ethnicity, and nativity status. Notably, Christy Erving conducted a study in which she examined the gender differences in the health profiles of African Americans and Caribbean blacks (immigrants and U.S. born). One of the findings from this research is that on average, African American women report lower self-rated measures of health, worse physical health, and were more likely to experience severe chronic illnesses than men. This finding contradicts the gender-health paradox in the sense that researchers would expect morbidity rates to be higher for women, but less of the illnesses that they acquire should be debilitating. In contrast, the opposite trend is observed for U.S. born Caribbean blacks, with men more likely to experience chronic, life-threatening illnesses than women. The health outcomes of Caribbean black immigrants are somewhere in-between the health outcomes of U.S. born Caribbean blacks and African Americans, wherein the females have a lower value of self-reported health but experience equal rates of life-threatening, chronic disease as men. This data illustrates that even within one racial category, there can be stark gender differences in health on the basis of social differences within the groups that compose the race.\n\nStudies have shown that individuals that are racially and ethnically stigmatized, not just in the U.S., but globally as well, experience health issues such as mental and physical illness, and in some cases even death, in higher rates than the average individual. There has been some controversy around \"race\" being a determinant of disease and health issues, since there are unmeasured forms of background history that are potential factors in this research. Geographical origins and the types of environments individual races were exposed to are huge contributes to the health of a certain race, especially when the environment that they are in now is not the same as the one their race originates from geographically.\n\nAlong with these factors, physical, psychological, social, and chemical environments are all included and accounted for. Including exposure over the course of one's life and through generations,and biological adaptation to these environmental exposures, including gene expression. An example of this is a study of hypertension between black people and whites. West Africans and people of West African descent levels of hypertension increased when they moved from Africa to the United States. Their levels of hypertension were twice as high as the levels of black people that were in Africa. While whites in the United States even had higher rates of hypertension than Black people in Africa, the black people in the United States rates of hypertension were higher than some predominately white populations in Europe. Again, this proves that when a race is taken out of their original geographic environment, they are more prone to disease and illness, because their genetic make-up was made for a specific type of environment.\n\nTransitioning from the environmental aspect of race and disease, there is a direct correlation between race and socioeconomic status which contributes to racial disparities in health. When it comes to death rates from heart disease, the rate is about twice as high for black men vs. white men. Now, death rates from heart disease are lower for both black and white women compared to their male counterparts, but the patterns of racial disparities and education disparities for women are similar to that of the men. Death from heart disease is about three times as higher for black women than white women. For both black men and women, racial differences in deaths from heart disease at every level of education is evident, with the racial gap being larger at the higher levels of education than at the lowest levels. There are a number of reasons why race matters in terms of health after socioeconomic status has been accounted for. For one, health is affected by adversity early on in one's life, such as traumatic stress, poverty, and abuse. These factors affect the physical and mental health of an individual. As we know, most of the people living in poverty in the United States are minorities, specifically African Americans, so unfortunately there is no surprise that they are the individuals with so many health issues.\n\nContinuously, race is relevant to health issues, because of the non-equivalence of socioeconomic status indicators across racial groups. At the same level of education, minorities (black people and non-white Hispanic people) receive less income than their Anglo-white counterparts, as well as have less wealth and purchasing power. Namely, one of the biggest reasons that race matters in terms of health is due to racism. Both personal and institutionalized racism are very prominent in today's society, maybe not as blunt and easy to notice in comparison to the past, but it still exists. Certain residential segregation by race, such as redlining, has created very distinct racial differences in terms of education, employment, and opportunities. Opportunities such as access to good healthcare/medical care. Institutional and cultural racism can even harm minorities health through stereotypes and prejudices, which contributes to socioeconomic mobility and can reduce and limit resources and opportunities required for a healthy lifestyle.\n\nSocioeconomic status is only one part of racial disparities in health that reflect larger social inequalities in society. Racism is a system that combines with, and sometimes changes, socioeconomic status to influence health, and race still matters for health when socioeconomic status is considered.\n\nSocioeconomic status is a multidimensional classification, often defined using an individual's income and level of education. Other related metrics can round out this definition; for example, in a 2006 study by authors Cox, McKevitt, Rudd and Wolfe, further categories included \"occupation, home and goods ownership, and area-based deprivation indices\" in their determination of status.\n\nIncome inequality has risen rapidly in the United States, pushing greater amounts of the population into positions of lower socioeconomic status. A study published in 1993 examined Americans who had passed away between May and August 1960, and paired the mortality information with income, education and occupation data for each person. The work found an inverse correlation between socioeconomic status and mortality rate, as well as an increasing strength of this pattern and its reflection of the growth of income inequality in the United States.\n\nThese findings, although concerned with total mortality of any cause, reflect a similar relationship between socioeconomic status and disease incidence or death in the United States. Disease composes a very significant portion of U.S. mortality; as of May 2017, 6 out of 7 of the leading causes of death in America are non-communicable diseases, including heart disease, cancer, lower respiratory diseases, and cerebrovascular diseases (stroke). Indeed, these diseases have been seen to disproportionately affect the socioeconomically disadvantaged, albeit to different degrees and with differing magnitude. Mortality rates associated with cardiovascular disease (CVD), including coronary heart disease (CHD) and stroke, were assessed for individuals across areas of differing income and income inequality. The authors found that the mortality rates for each of the three respective diseases were greater by a factor of 1.36, 1.26, and 1.60, in areas of higher inequality compared to lower inequality areas of similar income. Across areas of differing income and constant income inequality, the rate of death due to CVD, CHD and stroke was increased by a factor of 1.27, 1.15, and 1.33 in the lower income areas. These trends across two measures of variation in socioeconomic status reflect the complexity and depth of the relationship between disease and economic standing. The authors are careful to state that while these patterns exist, they are not sufficiently described as related by cause and effect. While correlating, health and status have arisen in the U.S. from interrelated forces that may intricately accumulate or negate one another due to specific historical contexts.\n\nAs this lack of cause and effect simplicity indicates, exactly where disease-related health inequality arises is murky, and multiple factors likely contribute. Important to an examination of disease and health in the context of a complicated classification like socioeconomic status is the degree to which these measures are tied up with mechanisms that are dependent upon the individual, and those that are regionally variant. In the aforementioned 2006 study, the authors define individualized factors within three categories, \"material (eg, income, possessions, environment), behavioural (eg, diet, smoking, exercise) and psychosocial (eg, perceived inequality, stress)\", and provide two categories for external, regionally varying factors, \"environmental influences (such as provision of and access to services) and psychosocial influences (such as social support).\" The interactive and compounding nature of these forces can shape and be shaped by socioeconomic status, presenting a challenge to researchers to tease apart the intersecting factors of health and status. In the 2006 study, authors examined the specific drivers of the correlation between stroke occurrence and socioeconomic status. Identifying more nuanced and interlocking factors, they cited risk behaviors, early life influences, and access to care as tied to socioeconomic status and thus health inequality.\n\nInequality in disease is intricately tangled up with stratification of social class and economic status in the United States. Correlations, often disease-dependent, between health and socioeconomic attainment have been demonstrated in numerous studies for numerous diseases. The causes of these correlations are interlocking and often related to factors varying between regions and individuals, and design of future studies concerning inequality in disease require careful thought to the multifaceted driving mechanisms of social inequality.\n\nThe neighborhoods and areas people live in, as well as their occupation, make up the environment in which they exist. People living in poverty stricken neighborhoods are at a greater risk for heart disease, possibly because the supermarkets in their area do not sell healthy foods and there is increased availability of stores selling alcohol and tobacco than in more affluent parts of town. People living in rural areas are also more susceptible to heart disease, as well. An agriculturally based diet rich in fat and cholesterol, combined with an isolated environment in which there is limited access to health care and ways to distribute information probably creates a pattern in which people living in rural environments have higher levels of heart disease. Occupational cancer is one way in which the environment one works in can increase their rate of disease. Employees exposed to smoke, asbestos, diesel fumes, paint, and chemicals in factories can develop cancer from their workplace. All of these jobs tend to be low-paying and typically held by low income individuals. The decreased amount of healthy food in stores located in low-income areas also contributes to the increased rates of diabetes for persons living in those neighborhoods. One of the best examples of this can be seen by observing the city of Jacksonville, Florida.\n\nIn Jacksonville, Florida it is hard to find groceries stores around the area because it is surrounded by fats, sugar, and high in cholesterol markets. In Duval County, there are 177,000 food insecure individuals such as children, families,senior citizens, and veterans that do not know when they will have a chance to have another meal again. Nearly 60 percent of the food that is consumed in Duval County is processed. To combat this, agencies helped distribute food and they averaged 12.3 million meals over eight counties in Northern Florida. In Duval alone, 3.5 million meals were handed out to families. The image below shows all of the hunger-relief partner agencies located within Jacksonville's food deserts that get food from Feeding Northeast Florida. In all Feeding Northeast Florida provided 4.2 million pounds of food to agencies in food deserts. These numbers were stats recorded in 2016.\n\nJust like Flint Jacksonville had a water crisis and found 23 different chemicals in their water supply. It was so bad that Jacksonville was labeled top 10 in worst water in the nation. They stood at number 10 because of the 23 different chemicals. The chemicals that were most found in the water in high volumes were trihalomethanes, which is made up of four different cleaning by products such as chloroform. Trihalomethanes are confirmed to be carcinogenic. Throughout the five year testing period, unsafe levels of trihalomethanes were found during the 32 months of testing, and levels that are considered illegal by the EPA were found in 12 of those months. In one of the testing periods the trihalomethanes were found at twice the EPA legal limit. Other chemicals such as lead and arsenic that can cause health problems to people, were also found in the drinking water.\n\nAnother way that water pollution is damaged is from nutrient overload. Nutrient overload is caused by manure and fertilizers, storm water runoff, and wastewater treatment plants. This occurs in a lot of Florida rivers and the rivers are contained with blue green algae that feed on all those nutrients. All the waste that is dumped into the rivers gets fed on by other plants and animals that release toxins in the area, which makes everything surrounded by it a deadly toxin as well. The toxins that are dumped into the rivers can cause discoloration in the rivers to make a dark blue and green color. By looking at the river most people can tell how dangerous and harmful it is to be around it. If the water were to somehow get into water companies people can receive serious harm from drinking and bathing with this water.\n\nEducation level is a great predictor of socioeconomic status. On average, individuals with a bachelors, associates, and high school degrees will annually earn 64.5, 50, and 41 thousand dollars respectively. This means that the average bachelor's degree earner will receive approximately $1,000,000 more over their working life than an individual with only a high school degree.<ref>\n"}
{"id": "12082736", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12082736", "title": "Internet-mediated research", "text": "Internet-mediated research\n\nInternet-mediated research (IMR) is the practice of gathering medical, biomedical or health related research data via the internet directly from research subjects. The subject, uses a web browser to view and respond to questionnaires that are included in an approved medical research protocol.\n\nIn a traditional medical research study, the principal investigator, Research Coordinator, or other study staff conducts an interview with the research subject and records the information on a paper or electronic case report form. Using IMR, the research subject instead responds to a questionnaire without the guidance of a research staff member, often performing the action at a time and place disassociated with the research clinic, using only a computer connected to the internet and a standard browser.\n\nRecently, the medical community has begun to study whether there are differences between IMR data and traditionally collected data.\n\n"}
{"id": "6597670", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6597670", "title": "Joie de vivre", "text": "Joie de vivre\n\nJoie de vivre (, \"joy of living\") is a French phrase often used in English to express a cheerful enjoyment of life; an exultation of spirit.\n\nIt \"can be a joy of conversation, joy of eating, joy of anything one might do… And \"joie de vivre\" may be seen as a joy of everything, a comprehensive joy, a philosophy of life, a \"Weltanschauung\". Robert's \"Dictionnaire\" says joie is \"sentiment exaltant ressenti par toute la conscience\", that is, involves one's whole being.\"\n\nCasual use of the phrase in French can be dated back at least as far as Fénelon in the late 17th century, but it was only brought into literary prominence in the 19th century, first by Michelet (1857) in his pantheistic work \"Insecte\", to contrast the passive life of plants with animal \"joie de vivre\", and then by Émile Zola in his book of that name from 1883–84.\n\nThereafter, it took on increasing weight as a mode of life, evolving at times almost into a secular religion in the early 20th century; and subsequently fed into Lacanian emphasis on \"a \"jouissance\" beyond the pleasure principle\" in the latter half of the century – a time when its emphasis on enthusiasm, energy and spontaneity gave it a global prominence with the rise of hippie culture.\n\n20th-century proponents of self-actualization such as Abraham Maslow or Carl Rogers saw, as one of the by-products, the rediscovery of what the latter called \"the quiet joy in being one's self...a spontaneous relaxed enjoyment, a primitive \"joie de vivre\"\".\n\n\"Joie de vivre\" has also been linked to D. W. Winnicott's concept of a sense of play, and of access to the true self.\n\nIt is usually referenced in its standard French form, but various corruptions are observed such as \"joie de vie\", which would translate to \"joy of life\". The Matisse painting \"Le bonheur de vivre\" translates as, \"The Happiness of Life\".\n\n"}
{"id": "58266402", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58266402", "title": "Katharina Schellenberg", "text": "Katharina Schellenberg\n\nKatharina Lohrenz Schellenberg (1870 - January 1, 1945) was an American Mennonite medical missionary of Russian birth.\n\nSchellenberg was born in the village of Tiegerweide, at the time in South Russia, today in Ukraine; it is part of the Molotschna Mennonite colony. Her parents were Abraham and Katharina Lohrenz Schellenberg, with whom she immigrated to the United States in 1879, settling in Kansas. When she was fourteen, her mother died. At nineteen, she made her first commitment to Christ, joining the Mennonite congregation in Buhler, Kansas. Schellenberg studied medicine at the Deaconess Hospital in Cleveland, an undertook further study at the Medical Institute of Homeopathic Medicine in Kansas City, Kansas; she was the first woman among North American Mennonites to become a doctor, and became the denomination's first medical missionary in India when she traveled to that country in 1907. She learned to speak Telugu as part of her preparations. Early in her career she worked in various locations, from Hughestown as far south as the Tungabhadra River; the mission built a hospital at Nagarkurnool in 1912. The 1928 completion of another hospital, in Shamshabad, meant that city became her home base. Many of her patients were Muslim women who could not be seen by a male doctor. Schellenberg died suddenly in India, and is buried in the St. George Cemetery in Hyderabad. An archive of photographs related to her career in India is held at the Mennonite Library & Archives at Fresno Pacific University.\n"}
{"id": "20671912", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20671912", "title": "List of people who have walked across the United States", "text": "List of people who have walked across the United States\n\nThis is a list of people who have walked across the United States from the east coast to the west coast or vice versa. Walking or running across the United States has long been pursued as a way to bring publicity to social causes.\n\nRichard Llew Evans departed Tybee Island, Georgia, at 8:30 AM, November 24, 2017, and arrived at Imperial beach, San Diego, on January 31, 2018, at 12:45 PM. Evans appears to have set the record for walking coast to coast (67 days). Evans has Parkinson's disease and walked an average of 1.5 marathons per day, every day without a break. Evans was real-time trackable throughout his walk via Google location sharing and had different people walking with him in each state. Evans raised over $120,000 for the Michael J. Fox foundation and is writing a book about the connections he made along the way.\n\nBradford Lyttle, an organizer with the Committee for Non-Violent Action, and several others walked from San Francisco to New York City, and then through parts of Europe to Moscow, Russia, from December 1960 until late 1961. The action was called the San Francisco to Moscow March for Peace. Several participants, including Lyttle, walked the entire distance. \n\nThese participants of A Walk of the People – A Pilgrimage for Life walked across the United States in 1984 as part of the action that called for global nuclear disarmament and better relations between the U.S. and former Soviet Union. The march started at Point Conception, Calif., and went through Texas and the Deep South to New York City. Several others, including Andy Rector, walked significant portions across the U.S. and continued in Europe to Moscow, Russia, in 1985. \n\nThese were the five participants in the Great March for Climate Action who completed every step of the 3,100-mile walk from Los Angeles, California, to Washington, D.C. between March 1 and November 1, 2014. Halfway through the March, Steve Martin left the main body of marchers to walk solo to New York, arriving there on September 21 as an emissary from the Great March for Climate Action to the People's Climate March.\n\nMark Baumer walked across the USA in 81 days. He was killed in 2017 while attempting a second walk barefoot.\n\nMichael Ross, 18, from Manchester, CT, walked from Danbury, CT to Huntington Beach, CA. This walk took 297 days and was in an effort to raise funds and awareness for the Livestrong Foundation. Over $13,000 was raised. Michael was accompanied by his childhood friend, George Crawford. Most days both Michael and George were welcomed into the homes of kind people who would make dinner and give them a place to sleep. They could not believe the amount of hospitality they received. The walk started April 2013 and ended February 2014. \n\nPhil Cihiwsky, 59, from Loveland, Colorado, walked from San Diego, California, to York Harbor, Maine, starting his walk on March 4 and completing it on October 4, 2013. He walked 3300 miles, crossing 15 states in 7 months while raising awareness about food insecurity issues among older adults for Meals On Wheels and encouraging the people he met along the way to support home-delivered meal programs in their own communities.\n\nElliott Lannen and Graeme Jeffrey Lithgow walked from San Francisco, California, to St. Augustine, Florida, from 2013 to 2014. The party began with three members, but Julio Lopez abandoned the project after traversing the California coast.\n\nHelga Estby, a 36-year-old from Spokane, Washington, and her 18-year-old daughter Clara walked from Spokane to New York City in 1896, setting off on May 5, 1896, passing through 14 states along the way, and arriving at the latter on Christmas Eve. She did so in response to a $10,000 challenge from a sponsor given to any woman who would walk across the United States. She brought with her a compass, red-pepper spray, a revolver, and a curling iron. She wanted the money in order to save her family's farm. She did not receive it.\n\nIn 1982, Louis Michael Figueroa, age 16, became the fastest and youngest person (according to some sources) to run across the United States, covering the route from New Brunswick, NJ to San Francisco in 60 days to fulfill a promise to a friend who was dying of bone cancer.\n\nIn 1996–1997 he walked from Bangor, ME to San Diego, CA for local AIDS networks in memory of his brother Jimmy, who died of the disease. The walk was plagued by delays due to Figueroa's battle with Acute Lymphocytic Leukemia.\n\nIn 2005, he began a walk around the United States for victims of child abuse. Figueroa walked for six months and covered of the .\n\nOn June 4, 2010, Figueroa left from where he previously stopped, west of Somerset, PA and arrived in Tucson on January 15, 2011.\n\nAaron Huey, age 26, left Encinitas, California, on January 22, 2002 and arrived in New York City 3,349 miles and 154 days later on June 25. His only travel companion was his dog Cosmo. He did not carry a cell phone and had no support team. Huey covered the why and how in his 2010 Annenberg Foundation lecture, and Huey also wrote journals of his travels along the way.\n\nIn October 2016, Pete Kostelnick, age 29, set the world record for fastest run across America; he ran the 3,067 miles from San Francisco’s City Hall to New York’s City Hall in 42 days, 6 hours, 30 minutes.\n\nBarbara Moore (1903–1977), a Russian-born health enthusiast, walked 3,387 miles from San Francisco to New York City in 85 days in 1960, departing on April 13 and arriving on July 6.\n\nFrom March 12, 2011 through June 9, 2012, Richard Noble, a gay rights activist, walked with a rainbow flag from San Francisco to Jacksonville Beach, Florida.\n\nJames Harry Pierce, a 46-year-old writer, costumer, and street performer, began his walk across the United States on May 30, 2011 just south of Seattle, Washington, passed through Crestview, Florida on December 24, 2011, and continued on to Key West, Florida, where he settled on February 7, 2012 and now performs nightly on Duval Street dressed as Darth Vader playing the banjo.\n\nPeace Pilgrim, née Mildred Lisette Norman (July 18, 1908 – July 7, 1981), was an American pacifist, vegetarian, and peace activist. Starting on January 1, 1953, she walked across the United States for 28 years until her death in 1981. She had no organizational backing, carried no money, and would not even ask for food or shelter. When she began her pilgrimage she had taken a vow to \"remain a wanderer until mankind has learned the way of peace, walking until given shelter and fasting until given food.\" At the time of her death, she was crossing the United States for the seventh time.\n\nGranny D (née Doris Haddock, January 24, 1910 – March 9, 2010) achieved international fame in February 2000 when, at age 90, she completed her walk across the U.S. to support campaign finance reform. A resident of Dublin, New Hampshire, Granny D started the walk January 1, 1999, shortly before her 89th birthday in Pasadena, California amid the Rose Parade festivities. Despite being hospitalized for pneumonia after walking across the Mojave Desert, Granny D completed her walk on Leap Day of the following year, more than 400 days later, having traversed over 3200 miles across nine states (California, Arizona, New Mexico, Texas, Arkansas, Tennessee, Kentucky, West Virginia, and Maryland). She had to travel much of the last 100 miles on cross-country skis due to a snowstorm that made walking impossible. Before her life was over, she wrote about her walk in two books. The first was co-authored by Dorris Haddock (Granny D) and Dennis Burke, \"Granny D: Walking Across America in my 90th Year.\" She chronicled her expedition and reasons for undertaking it in an autobiography entitled \"You're Never Too Old to Raise a Little Hell\" published in 2003. The following year, at age 94, she ran as Democratic candidate against Judd Gregg in the New Hampshire senate race, but was soundly defeated. She died shortly after turning 100, on March 9, 2010.\n\nChad Sigmon was 38 years old when he ran across America starting April 1, 2013, from Jacksonville, Florida, and ending August 1 in San Diego, California. He ran to help end mental health stigma. He averaged around 22 miles a day for a total of 2,650 miles.\n\nFrom March 29 through December 29, 2009, Pave Your Lane's founder, Katie Visco, ran across America, from Boston to San Diego to publicize this campaign. At age 24, Visco became the second-youngest and 13th woman overall to run from coast to coast.\n\nBob Wieland is a Vietnam War veteran who lost his legs to a mortar mine in 1969. He \"ran\" across America on his hands, taking three years, eight months, and six days to travel from coast to coast and raise money for Vietnam war veterans.\n\nZachary Bonner is a homeless youth advocate. He started a non profit when he was 6 years old called the Little Red Wagon Foundation. At age 8 after seeing a documentary on a woman named Peace Pilgrim he decided to walk from his home in Tampa, Florida to the state Capitol Tallahassee. The following year at age 9 he continued his walk to Atlanta, Georgia and that summer at age 11 he walked from Atlanta to Washington, D.C. He vowed to become the youngest to walk Coast to Coast and at age 12 completed that mission by walking from Jacksonville Beach to the Santa Monica Pier. During his walks he used media attention to raise awareness to homeless youth and highlighted many programs working to help these kids. The journey took Zach 7 months to complete.\n\nJoe \"Tiger\" Patrick II is a Peace Dale, Rhode Island, Army veteran. After volunteering at Ground Zero for three weeks he decided he wanted to do something to bring awareness to the men and women who died as a result of the events during the 9/11 attacks, and those who have died while serving in the military for the United States of America. He committed to walking for the cause. He completed a memorial walk in 2011 and on his second walk in 2013 he walked approximately 3,000 miles across the United States beginning in April 2013 in the City of Coronado, California and ending in Washington D.C. in October 2013. During this walk he carried a memorial panel that he created on canvas, which displayed the faces of over 6600 color images of U.S. service members, and weighed over 50 pounds. He also carried an American flag and a bat used by Boston Red Sox second baseman Dustin Pedroia.\n\nWalter McGill, also known as Pastor \"Chick\" McGill, the \"Freedom Walker\" and the \"Cross Country Flagman,\" a 69-year-old pastor of the Creation Seventh Day Adventist Church and Vietnam War era veteran, began to walk across the United States on April 23, 2014- at Kill Devil Hills, North Carolina. He completed his journey on April 29, 2015 at the Santa Monica Pier in Santa Monica, California after traveling a route of over 3,200 miles, and carrying the United States flag by hand the entire way, the first such documented case. On July 12, 2015 he was honored at Dodger Stadium for the completion of the walk prior to a baseball game between the Los Angeles Dodgers and the Milwaukee Brewers.\n\nMcGill's websites promoting the walk, walkingcoast2coast and walkthewalknow.com, indicate an extensive list of causes for which he made the journey, including: civil liberties, human rights, national integrity, the restoration of individual and corporate self-respect, support for traditional family values, liberty of conscience for all citizens, the defense of constitutional principles, the review and appreciation of American heritage, care for the poor and homeless, the promotion of natural health practices, employment of the Golden Rule in daily living, and a spiritual awakening for the healing of the country. Along the way he saluted passing motorists and pedestrians, received certificates of appreciation at the Inland Empire and San Gabriel Valley, and left non-sectarian 40-day prayer guides for city and county officials. He was provided with a police escort part of the way along his walk in Tennessee and Georgia, and was awarded a \"Day of Recognition\" in his home state of Tennessee by Governor Bill Haslam.\n\nDuring the portion of the journey through Prescott, Arizona he dedicated ten miles of his walk to Kayla Mueller, who was captured by ISIS and killed earlier in 2015.\n\nIn his closing statements, McGill said, \"To be the first veteran to carry Old Glory from sea to shining sea has been a great aspiration of mine, and I'm praying this flag will be enshrined at the Smithsonian Institute [sic].\"\n\nArthur Hitchcock is a documentary-editorial photographer who, at age 19, walked from Long Beach, California to Augusta, Maine between May 11 and November 2, 2011. He walked approximately , crossing through 17 states in 175 days. Hitchcock walked to raise funds for breast cancer research and aid to assist families dealing with the cost of hospital bills and treatments. He walked to honor his deceased parents, Janet and Mike Hitchcock. His mother died from ductal carcinoma a few months before the trip. The majority of his route included major highways (it's illegal to walk on most major highways). He was led by a support vehicle.\n\nRetired U.S. Air Force Colonel John Ball, aka “The Walking Aggie,” walked coast-to-coast across America from March 1, 2015 to August 17, 2015. Beginning at Scripps Park in La Jolla, California and ending at Daytona Beach, Florida, Ball, age 58, walked 2,686 miles, crossing 8 states in 170 days. His unassisted, uninterrupted walk raised over $27,000 to help establish an Endowed Aggie Ring Scholarship at his alma mater, Texas A&M University.\n\nAnthony \"Silverback\" Roddy is a retired USDA Forest Service worker who, at age 56, walked from Wells Beach, Maine, to Imperial Beach, California, between April 19 and December 15, 2015. A US Army veteran of the war in Iraq, he crossed 13 states in 244 days, walking approximately 3,073 miles. His Walkabout-America 2015 was the culmination of a life-long dream, but moreover was an advocacy campaign to help grant wishes to children with life-threatening medical conditions. He raised more than $5,000 for the Make-a-Wish Foundation.\n\nFrom January 20 to May 20, 2011, Jeff Grabosky ran solo and unsupported for over 3,700 miles from Oceanside, California to Smith Point, New York. He took prayer intentions from people all around the world and prayed a decade of the rosary for each of the approximate 3,500 intentions he received. His book, \"Running With God Across America\" was published in 2012.\n\nIn 2016, Bjorn Suneson, a Stockholm native, finished his fifth run across the United States.\n\nMike Maczuzak, president of SmartShape Design, walked solo and unsupported from Coney Island to Santa Monica Pier, covering more than 3,600 miles in 125 days, and traveling through 15 states, March to July 2016.\n\nRun Across America — Ran 3,550 miles in 72 days averaging 50 miles a day across the United States(4th Fastest athlete to run from San Francisco to New York (July 2013). The run raised money for the Waves for Water organization’s Hurricane Relief Initiative\n\nTed G. Stone was a Southern Baptist evangelist and recovering amphetamine addict who walked across the United States three times and was on his fourth trip when he died. He made the walks to raise awareness for his ministry to addicts and would drive up to 150 miles off of his walking route to speak to groups. His first trip, in 1996, was 3,650 miles from the Capitol steps in Washington, D.C., south to Jacksonville, Florida and west to Los Angeles. His second trip, in 1998, was a 3,550-mile walk from San Francisco to Virginia Beach, VA. His third trip was in 2000 and he walked 1,700 miles from Nuevo Laredo, Tamaulipas in Mexico to the Ambassador Bridge in Detroit leading into Canada. He died on his fourth trip in 2006 in Nashville, TN. He was walking from Chicago to Pensacola, FL which would have covered 1,100 miles.\n\nBenjamin Lee, an Australian, walked from San Francisco to Delaware Bay between May 18 and November 30, 2013. Lee began his walk with a partner but shortly after a month, his partner quit. He continued his walk solo and unsupported. He raised money for the charity Oxfam.\n\nJohn Ball, a graduate from Texas A&M University, walked across the country from March to August 2015. His goal was to raise $25,000 for Aggie Ring scholarships. Ball completed his journey in 170 days, and recorded his journey on a website called The Walking Aggie.\n\nIn 2010, Yijoo Kwon of Palisades Park, N.J., ran 95 days from Los Angeles to New York City to raise awareness of diabetes - The New York Times Yi-joo Kwon, 64, a Korean immigrant and retired businessman runs 3,100-mile coast-to-coast to raise awareness about diabetes - NY Daily News \n\nBetween January 28, 1979 and September 6, 1980, Stephan Foust walked 3506 miles across the United States. While en-route, Foust, of Elkhart, Indiana did a weekly remote call-in radio show for WSBT-AM in South Bend, Indiana. The 30-year-old Foust began his journey on the Atlantic Ocean beach at Nags Head, North Carolina, then passed through the states of North Carolina, Tennessee, Missouri, Arkansas, Oklahoma, Kansas, Colorado, Utah, Nevada, and California, before ending his walk on the Pacific Ocean beach of Point Reyes National Seashore. \n\nThe United Souls of Awareness, a creative production team from Los Angeles embarked on a 1 year long walk from Venice Beach California to Manhattan New York from April 1st 2006 to April 1st 2007 . The core members, Kevin Smith II, Kam Talbert, Jordon Cooper, Jonathan White, with many other walkers joining along did this over 4,000 mile walk to encourage self expression, inspire themselves and others and they treked town to town, sharing ideas and information. Then finally ending the walk at a Full Moon Drum circle in New York City at Visionary Artist Alex and Allison Grey New York City Art Gallery COSM. <ref>\n"}
{"id": "11311613", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11311613", "title": "List of youngest birth mothers", "text": "List of youngest birth mothers\n\nThis is a list of youngest birth mothers between 5 and 10 years of age.\n\n"}
{"id": "183509", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=183509", "title": "Maximilian Bircher-Benner", "text": "Maximilian Bircher-Benner\n\nMaximilian Oskar Bircher-Benner, M.D. (August 22, 1867 – January 24, 1939) was a Swiss physician and a pioneer nutritionist credited for popularizing muesli.\n\nMaximilian Oskar Bircher-Benner was born on August 22, 1867 in Aarau, Switzerland, to Heinrich Bircher and Berta Krüsi. He attended the University of Zurich to study medicine, and later opened his own general clinic. During the first year the clinic was open, Bircher-Benner came down with jaundice, and he claimed he became well again by eating raw apples. From this observation, he experimented with the health effects raw foods have on the body, and from this he promoted muesli, a dish based on raw oats, fruits, and nuts. Bircher-Benner expanded on his nutritional research and opened a sanatorium called \"Vital Force\" in 1897. He believed raw fruits and vegetables held the most nutritional value, cooked and commercially processed foods held even less, and meat held the least nutritional value. Eventually, Bircher-Benner gave up meat entirely. Other scientists of the time did not respond well to what Bircher-Benner referred to as his \"new food science,\" but the general public caught on to his ideas to the point where he had to expand his sanatorium practice. His nutritional habits and eating patterns steadily grew in popularity until he died on January 24, 1939 in Switzerland at the age of 71. Bircher Benner authored a book titled \"Food Science for All\".\n\nAt his sanatorium in Zürich, a balanced diet of raw vegetables and fruit was used as a means to heal patients, contrary to the beliefs commonly held at the end of the 19th century. Bircher-Benner believed raw foods were more nutritious because they contain direct energy from the sun. He was among the first scientists in Europe to believe food could be used to keep the body healthy rather than simply satisfy hunger. He encouraged people of good health to eat approximately 50% raw foods on a daily basis, and for those with poor health to eat 100% raw foods. Bircher-Benner's sisters, Alice Bircher and Berta Brupbacher-Bircher, created many recipes using raw foods to help a diet of raw foods seem more appealing. Because of this help from his sisters, his sanatorium gained enormous popularity and he expanded the size of his clinic.\n\nBircher-Benner changed the eating habits of the late 19th century. Instead of much meat and white bread, he postulated eating fruit, vegetables and nuts. His ideas included not only controlled nutrition, but also spartan physical discipline. At his Zürich sanatorium off Bircher-Benner-Platz, the patients had to follow a somewhat monastic daily schedule including early bedtime (21:00, or 9:00pm), physical training and active gardening work. Each meal began with a small dish of muesli, developed by Dr. Bircher-Benner, followed by mostly raw vegetables and a dessert. Patients were not allowed to consume alcohol, coffee, chocolate, or tobacco while they were being treated. Bircher-Benner also recommended his patients to sun bathe, take cold showers, and use a medicinal bath developed by American physician John Harvey Kellogg. His theory of life was based on harmony between people and nature, a key component of a German lifestyle reform movement, and the reason he named his clinic \"Vital Force.\" Some of his ideas originate from observing the daily life of shepherds in the Swiss Alps, who lived a simple and healthy life.\n\nBircher-Benner's ideas for nutrition were in opposition to the existing ideas of the time. Many of his ideas were backed up with observations rather than experiments and analysis. Because of this, Bircher-Benner was heavily critiqued and seldom respected as a nutritionist. A review for one of his cookbooks states that the number of people capable of eating solely raw fruits and vegetables as Bircher-Benner encouraged is limited because humans are not meant to be herbivores. Thomas Mann, a well-known novelist, visited the sanatorium and described it as a \"health jail.\" Despite disapproval from others, Bircher-Benner's ideas caught the public's eye and his sanatorium stayed in business.\n\nBircher-Benner's work was not recognized by other scientists until the discovery of vitamins in fruits and vegetables in the 1930s. Shortly after his death, a second sanatorium was opened and named \"People's Sanatorium for a Lifestyle Based on Nature,\" and was run according to Bircher-Benner's ideas. In 1939, the Vital Force clinic was renamed the \"Bircher-Benner Clinic\" in his memory. In the late 20th century, after closure of the sanatorium, it was briefly a student hostel. It has since been purchased by Zürich Financial Services, and is named the Zürich Development Center. It is used for executive training, and also houses an extensive private art collection.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44969514", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44969514", "title": "Medical Stores Department", "text": "Medical Stores Department\n\nMedical Stores Department (MSD) was established by the Act of Parliament No.13 of 1993 as an autonomous department under the Ministry of Health, Social Development, Gender, Elderly and Children responsible for develop, maintain and manage an efficient and cost effective system of procurement, storage and distribution of approved medicines and medical supplies required for use by the public health services as the Ministry of Health, Social Development, Gender, Elderly and Children may from time to time approve.\n\nThe Medical Stores Department is a parastatal agency wholly owned by the Government of Tanzania.\n\nThe company is an autonomous agency under the Ministry of Health and is governed by a board of trustees. The Board composed of nine members appointed every three years. The Chairman appointed by the President of the United Republic of Tanzania, eight members are appointed by the Minister responsible for health. The Board delegates the day to day management of the department operations to Director General who is appointed by the President of the United Republic of Tanzania.\n\nThe department operates through eight zonal stores in Dar-es-salaam, Mwanza, Iringa, Moshi, Mbeya, Tabora, Dodoma and Mtwara supported by two Sales Points in Tanga and Muleba. MSD is annually audited by CAG and has fully-fledged competent internal audit Unit that oversees internal controls effectiveness of each individual store and its supply chain.\n"}
{"id": "525804", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=525804", "title": "Natural childbirth", "text": "Natural childbirth\n\nNatural childbirth is childbirth without routine medical interventions, particularly anesthesia. Natural childbirth arose in opposition to the techno-medical model of childbirth that has recently gained popularity in industrialized societies. Natural childbirth attempts to minimize medical intervention, particularly the use of anesthetic medications and surgical interventions such as episiotomies, forceps and ventouse deliveries and caesarean sections. Natural childbirth may occur during a physician or midwife attended hospital birth, a midwife attended homebirth, or an unassisted birth. The term \"natural childbirth\" was coined by obstetrician Grantly Dick-Read upon publication of his book \"Natural Childbirth\" in the 1930s, which was followed by the 1942 \"Childbirth Without Fear\".\n\nHistorically, most women gave birth at home without emergency medical care available. The \"natural\" rate of maternal mortality—meaning without surgical or pharmaceutical intervention—has been estimated at 1,500 per 100,000 births. In the United States circa 1900, before the introduction and improvement of modern medical technologies, there were about 700 maternal deaths per 100,000 births (.7%).\n\nAt the onset of the Industrial Revolution, giving birth at home became more difficult due to congested living spaces and dirty living conditions. This drove urban and lower class women to newly available hospitals, while wealthy and middle-class women continued to labor at home. In the early 1900s there was an increasing availability of hospitals, and more women began going into the hospital for labor and delivery. In the United States, the middle classes were especially receptive to the medicalization of childbirth, which promised a safer and less painful labor. The ability to birth without pain was part of the early feminist movement. The use of childbirth drugs began in 1847 when Scottish obstetrician James Young Simpson introduced chloroform as an anesthetic during labor, but only the most rich and powerful women (such as Queen Victoria) had access. In the late 1800s, feminists in the United States and United Kingdom began to demand drugs for pain relief during childbirth.\n\nThe term \"natural childbirth\" was coined by obstetrician Grantly Dick-Read upon publication of his book \"Natural Childbirth\" in the 1930s. In 1942 Grantly Dick-Read published \"Revelation of Childbirth\" (which was later retitled \"Childbirth without Fear\"), advocating natural childbirth, which became an international bestseller. The Lamaze method of natural childbirth gained popularity in the United States after Marjorie Karmel wrote about her experiences in her 1959 book \"Thank You, Dr. Lamaze\", and with the formation of the American Society for Psychoprophylaxis in Obstetrics (currently Lamaze International) by Marjorie Karmel and Elisabeth Bing. Later, physicians Michel Odent and Frederick Leboyer and midwives such as Ina May Gaskin promoted birthing centers, water birth, and homebirth as alternatives to the hospital model. The Bradley method of natural childbirth (also known as \"husband-coached childbirth\"), a method of natural childbirth developed in 1947 by Robert A. Bradley, M.D., was popularized by his book \"Husband-Coached Childbirth\", first published in 1965.\n\nMany women consider natural birth empowering. Studies show that skin-to-skin contact between a mother and her newborn immediately after birth is beneficial for both mother and baby. A review done by the World Health Organization found that skin-to-skin contact between mothers and babies after birth reduces crying, improves mother-infant interaction, and helps mothers to breastfeed successfully. They recommend that neonates be allowed to bond with the mother during their first two hours after birth, the period that they tend to be more alert than in the following hours of early life.\n\nInstead of medical interventions, a variety of non-invasive methods are employed during natural childbirth to ease the mother's pain. Many of these techniques stress the importance of \"a mind-body connection,\" which the techno-medical model of birth does not. These techniques include hydrotherapy, massage, relaxation therapy, hypnosis, breathing exercises, acupressure for labor, transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation (TENS), vocalization, visualization, mindfulness and water birth. Other approaches include movement, walking, and different positions (for example, using a birthing ball), hot and cold therapy (for example, using hot compresses and/or cold packs), and receiving one-on-one labor support like that provided by a midwife or doula. However, natural childbirth proponents maintain that pain is a natural and necessary part of the labor process, and should not automatically be regarded as entirely negative. In contrast to the pain of injury and disease, they believe that the pain of childbirth is a sign that the female body is functioning as it is meant to.\n\nBirth positions favored in natural childbirth—including squatting, hands and knees, or suspension in water—contrast with the lithotomy position (woman in hospital bed on her back with legs in stirrups), which has consistently been shown to slow and complicate labor.\n\nMethods to reduce tearing during natural childbirth (instead of an episiotomy) include managing the perineum with counter-pressure, hot compresses, and pushing the baby out slowly.\n\nSome women take birth education classes such as Lamaze or the Bradley Method to prepare for a natural childbirth. Several books are also available with information to help women prepare. A midwife or doula may include preparation for a natural birth as part of the prenatal care services. However, a study published in 2009 suggests that preparation alone is not enough to ensure an intervention-free outcome.\n\nIn the U.S in 2007: 93% of mothers used electronic fetal monitoring; 63% used\nepidurals; 55% had their membranes ruptured; 53% received oxytocin to stimulate labor progress; and 52% received episiotomies.\n\nSome studies argue that the push towards 'natural childbirth' in Western countries is exaggerated, and can harm women.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55516463", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55516463", "title": "NextGen Jane", "text": "NextGen Jane\n\nNextGen Jane is a data driven women’s healthcare company known for inventing a smart tampon system that offers insight into a woman's reproductive health system.\n\nIn 2013 co-founder Ridhi Tariyal was part of the first class of the Blavatnik Fellowship at Harvard University. The purpose of the fellowship is to place recent MBA graduates in labs across Harvard with the goal to commercialize life science-based enterprises.\n\nComing out of the fellowship Tariyal and co-founder Stephen Gire developed intellectual property for a Smart Tampon System to gather genomic information about a woman’s health.\n\nNextGen Jane was founded in 2014 with this IP as its core patent technology and its headquarters are located in Oakland, California, United States. Initially, the company had nothing to do with tampon. It was about fertility and empowering women to manage their own reproductive health by themselves. Later on, the tampoon aspect was added to help women manage their reproductive healthcare much better.\n\nNextGen Jane offers insight into women's reproductive health through its Smart Tampon System - a device that can help track biological changes in a woman’s body and enables them to manage their healthcare more autonomously.\n"}
{"id": "30068903", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30068903", "title": "Patient First", "text": "Patient First\n\nPatient First is a chain of urgent care centers in the United States. The centers allow patients to walk in and receive diagnosis and treatments for common symptoms and ailments that can receive outpatient care without an appointment. The company, which is based in Glen Allen, Virginia, currently has locations in Maryland, Pennsylvania, New Jersey and Virginia.\n\nThe company has not been nor is currently affiliated with other companies that have used the name Patient First in other areas of the United States. Nor has the company ever been affiliated with FPA Medical Management or US Healthnet.\n\nPatient First was established in 1981 and currently has 73 locations in Virginia, Maryland, Pennsylvania, and New Jersey.\n\nPatient First is a privately owned company that has never been affiliated with FPA Medical Management or USA Healthnet.\n"}
{"id": "58880486", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58880486", "title": "Press Ganey Associates", "text": "Press Ganey Associates\n\nPress Ganey Associates is a South Bend, Indiana-based health care company known for developing and distributing patient satisfaction surveys. As of January 2017, its Medical Practice Survey was the most widely used outpatient satisfaction survey in the United States. \nPress Ganey Associates was founded in 1985 by medical anthropologist Irwin Press and sociologist-statistician Rod Ganey, both of whom were then professors at the University of Notre Dame. Over the next fifteen years, the company's client base, which initially consisted of only a few hospitals, grew steadily in size.\n\nIn 1993, Mel Hall began working at Press Ganey, and in 2001, he became its CEO. He remained the company's CEO until stepping down in 2012 to found the Nashville-based medical staffing firm SpecialtyCare. \n\nThe Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services previously used Press Ganey's survey to measure patient satisfaction, but in 2012, after the survey was widely criticized, they replaced it with the Hospital Consumer Assessment of Healthcare Providers and Systems (HCAHPS). As of November 2016, Press Ganey's surveys are in use at more than 10,000 medical institutions.\n"}
{"id": "58004342", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58004342", "title": "Robert W. Porter (neurosurgeon)", "text": "Robert W. Porter (neurosurgeon)\n\nRobert Porter is a neurosurgeon in California. Porter was a founding member of the Brain Research Institute. He became Professor of Neurological Surgery at the University of California, Irvine, College of Medicine in 1969, and is currently Professor Emeritus there.\n\nPorter studied at Northwestern University, taking a B.S. in 1946, a M.S. in 1948, and a M.D. in 1950. He did an internship at the Los Angeles County General Hospital. Next he had a fellowship in neuroscience at the University of California, Los Angeles. In 1952, he earned a Ph.D. from Northwestern University. That was followed by residency training in neurological surgery at the Veterans Administration Hospital in Long Beach.\n\nFor two years Porter was in the U.S. Army, performing neurosurgical investigations at the Walter Reed Army Institute of Research. \nIn 1958 he became Chief of the Neurosurgical Service and Director of Research at the VA Hospital. He joined the faculty of the UCLA School of Medicine, having appointments in both anatomy and neurological surgery. In 1963 he was a lecturer and visiting neurosurgeon in the Department of Surgical Neurology at the University of Edinburgh, developing clinical and research techniques in stereotactic neurosurgery.\n\nPorter’s research has concerned the integration of central autonomic function and the interrelationships between the brain stem and abnormal visceral function. His clinical neurosurgical interests have been in spinal cord injury and functional stereotaxy.\n\nPorter has 120 publications in his bibliography.\n\nPorter is a member of the American Medical Association, American College of Surgeons, American Association of Neurological Surgeons, American Academy of Neurological Surgery, Research Society of Neurological Surgeons, Western Neurosurgical Society (President, 1971), California Association of Neurological Surgeons, Southern California Neurosurgical Society (President, 1967), American Physiological Society and the American Association of Anatomists.\n\n"}
{"id": "25181301", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25181301", "title": "Rom Houben", "text": "Rom Houben\n\nRom Houben is a Belgian man presumed comatose and in a vegetative state for 23 years after a near-fatal automobile accident, but according to several of his caregivers, was conscious and paralyzed during the entirety of his hospital stay. In 2010, the claim was rejected when communication could not be repeated with a different facilitator and by hiding the object to be identified from the view of the facilitator.\n\nHouben was diagnosed with total locked-in syndrome by Belgian neurologist Steven Laureys in 2006 with the help of modern brain imaging techniques and equipment. He now apparently communicates by typing into a keyboard with his right hand supported by a communication facilitator. However, the claims that Houben is able to communicate by typing have been widely disputed.\n\nHouben's case is used to question the current methods of diagnosing vegetative state and to arguments against withholding care from such patients. However, some bioethicists believe that the case, if confirmed, may provide \"stronger\" arguments for withdrawing or withholding from vegetative patients.\n\nWhile Houben was diagnosed in 2006, his case, first reported in a \"BMC Neurology\" paper in July 2009 without him being named, was only brought to wider public attention after German weekly magazine \"Der Spiegel\" ran a story on it in November 2009 which was subsequently picked up by media outlets around the world, receiving extensive coverage.\n\nBioethicist Jacob M. Appel of New York University has suggested that the case may be either \"a matter of wishful thinking\", or \"a cruel and manipulative hoax\" that will be used by political conservatives in their public relations campaign against the right to die.\n\nThe method used to allegedly communicate with Houben is known as \"facilitated communication\", which the Association for Behavior Analysis International, the American Academy of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry and the American Association on Mental Retardation have called a \"discredited technique\", the use of which is \"unwarranted and unethical\". Skeptics, including PZ Myers and James Randi, contend that facilitated communication does not involve actual communication with the disabled, but rather with the people playing the role of the \"facilitator\". Randi writes that claims of Houben's facilitated communication amount to a \"cruel farce.\" Video footage shows the \"facilitator\", Linda Wouters, holding Houben's hand as his finger is being used to type at a rapid pace, even though the subject appears to be slumped over with his eyes closed. Neurologist Steven Novella argued that there was \"little doubt\" that Houben's typing is the result of bogus facilitated communication.\n\nAdditionally, Arthur Caplan, a bioethics professor at the University of Pennsylvania, has claimed that the statements Houben allegedly made through his facilitator seem unnatural for someone disabled and unable to speak for decades. Through Wouters, Houben is quoted as saying \"Now I can communicate and talk via facilitated communication. Not everyone believes in this form of communication. It is a controversial method but, for me, it is vital to life. At last, my views can be heard and my feelings expressed.\"\n\nInitially, Laureys said that he had verified that the facilitated communication was genuine, by showing Houben objects when the facilitator was not present in the room, and later asking Houben to recall those objects. Novella suggested that Laureys had not used proper controls.\n\nIn an interview with the Belgian newspaper \"De Standaard\", Laureys stated that he was not involved in the choice of communication method and refused to comment on its validity. He even claimed to be \"a skeptic [himself]\" and acknowledged that \"the bad reputation of some forms [of facilitated communication] is justified\". He also claimed that Houben's case was only made public because \"Der Spiegel\" wanted to report on his study and was looking for a \"human element\" to the story: \"I knew that Rom and his family were willing to collaborate because they had done so before [for a Flemish TV channel].\" However, he also criticized some of the negative feedback for \"judging the evidence only on the basis of some video footage\" and declared that \"given time, we will look scientifically into the different ways of communication. For us, this seems to be the proper way.\"\n\nLaureys later concluded that messages attributed to Houben through Wouters' facilitation were not, in fact, coming from Houben after all. After the early tests, further testing met with resistance. Using a different facilitator, subsequent testing under properly controlled conditions in which fifteen objects which were shown to Houben over a period of weeks was performed, Houben was unable to communicate knowledge of any of the objects which had been shown to him during the facilitator's absence. Novella attributed Laureys' prior error to likely insufficient experience with facilitated communication.\n\n"}
{"id": "2778149", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2778149", "title": "Seattle 500 Study", "text": "Seattle 500 Study\n\nThe Seattle 500 Study is a University of Washington study that tracks individuals from birth. It is a longitudinal prospective study of the effects of prenatal health habits on human development. Beginning in 1974, this study has continuously followed a birth cohort of approximately 500 offspring. Current data collection is aimed at studying the development of mental health problems and problems of alcohol/drug abuse and dependence and their pre and post-natal antecedents.\n\nThe data which Seattle 500 collects is the basis of other research.\n"}
{"id": "35416782", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35416782", "title": "Seeds of Hope: HIV/AIDS in Ethiopia", "text": "Seeds of Hope: HIV/AIDS in Ethiopia\n\nSeeds of Hope: HIV/AIDS in Ethiopia is a set of five documentary films about individuals and organizations working to break the silence, lift the stigma and prevent the spread of HIV/AIDS in Ethiopia. The films focus on activists, family members, humanitarian groups, and health care professionals, all acting as advocates for awareness. The films were directed by filmmaker, Dorothy Fadiman. The films are in Amharic with English subtitles.\n\nThe five films in the series are: \"From Risk to Action: Women & HIV/AIDS in Ethiopia (2006),\" \"Breaking the Silence: Lifting the Stigma of HIV/AIDS (2006),\"\n\"Stepping Forward: Men Teaching and Learning about HIV/AIDS (2006),\" \"HIV/AIDS Awareness: Approaches to Prevention (2006),\" and \"Whose Children Are They Now?: AIDS Orphans in Ethiopia (2006).\"\n\nThis film examines the gender bias and the biology of transmission in Ethiopia which makes women more vulnerable than men to become infected. This film profiles the connection between gender and HIV/AIDS, as well as the work of leaders in education and policy change to improve the status of women.\n\nThis film documents HIV-positive people, who speak out despite the risk of social stigma and become active in their communities, working to reduce discrimination and secure better services. This film details their stories and profiles groups that provide counseling, income support, and prevention education.\n\nThis film examines certain populations of men, such as truck drivers and soldiers, who suffer high rates of infection. The film details the intensive education programs in Ethiopia to reach such individuals to heighten their awareness of safer sex practices.\n\nThis film follows Ethiopians who are working to prevent the spread of HIV/AIDS through education, communication through radio, television, and print media. The film also chronicles preventive education through street theater, coffee ceremonies, and funeral gatherings. The film features a home video of the wedding of Alebachew Teka, who included many HIV-positive children as honored guests.\n\nThe AIDS epidemic has left more than one million children without parents in Ethiopia. This film explores the stories of compassionate caregivers and the young people for whom they care.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48529562", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48529562", "title": "Slotervaartziekenhuis", "text": "Slotervaartziekenhuis\n\nSlotervaartziekenhuis is a hospital in the Slotervaart neighbourhood of Amsterdam, the Netherlands.\n\nIt produced and supplied heroin to 750 addicts under medical supervision, for which it was paid €3 million a year by the Ministry of Health, Welfare and Sport (Netherlands). Until 2013, it was owned by Aysel Erbudak, but is now owned by Dr Loek Winter.\n"}
{"id": "24271712", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24271712", "title": "Therapeutic Targets Database", "text": "Therapeutic Targets Database\n\nTherapeutic Target Database (TTD) is a database provided by Bioinformatics and Drug Design Group in National University of Singapore and Innovative Drug Research and Bioinformatics Group (IDRB) in Zhejiang University, which provides information about the known and explored therapeutic protein and nucleic acid targets, the targeted disease, pathway information and the corresponding drugs directed at each of these targets. Also included in this database are links to relevant databases containing information about target function, sequence, 3D structure, ligand binding properties, enzyme nomenclature and drug structure, therapeutic class, clinical development status.\n\nThis database currently contains 2,025 targets, including 364 successful, 286 clinical trial, 44 discontinued and 1,331 research targets, 17,816 drugs, including 1,540 approved, 1,423 clinical trial, 14,853 experimental drugs and 3,681 multi-target agents (14,170 small molecules and 652 antisense drugs with available structure or oligonucleotide sequence). Targets and drugs in this database cover 61 protein biochemical class and 140 drug therapeutic classes respectively.\n\nIn the 2011 version of TTD, target validation information has been integrated. Target validation normally requires the determination that the target is expressed in the disease-relevant cells/tissues, it can be directly modulated by a drug or drug-like molecule with adequate potency in biochemical assay, and that target modulation in cell and/or animal models ameliorates the relevant disease phenotype. Therefore, TTD collects three types of target validation data: experimentally determined potency of drugs against their primary target or targets, observed potency or effects of drugs against disease models (cell-lines, ex-vivo, in-vivo models) linked to their primary target or targets, and the observed effects of target knockout, knockdown, RNA interference, transgenetic, antibody or antisense treated in-vivo models. Currently, TTD provides complete or partial validation information for 932 targets (351 successful, 252 clinical trial, 34 discontinued and 295 research targets). All validation information can be retrieved from Target Validation Page.\n\nKnowledge of developed QSAR models for different molecular scaffolds active against different targets is highly useful for facilitating further drug development and lead optimisation efforts. Current TTD has 841 ligand-based QSAR models for active compounds of 228 chemical types against 121 targets. These QSAR models can be accessed in Target-based QSAR Models Page.\n\nMulti-target agents directed at selected multiple targets have been increasingly explored for enhanced therapeutic efficacies, improved safety profiles, and reduced resistance activities by simultaneously modulating the activity of a primary target and the counteractive elements. Multi-target agent against a target-pair refers to a compound active against both targets at potency values of ≤ 20 μM regardless of their possible activities against other targets. These multi-target agents can be retrieved from Multi-Target Agents Page.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "461800", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=461800", "title": "Wisdom tooth", "text": "Wisdom tooth\n\nA wisdom tooth or third molar is one of the three molars per quadrant of the human dentition. It is the most posterior of the three. Wisdom teeth generally erupt between the ages of 17 and 19. Most adults have four wisdom teeth, one in each of the four quadrants, but it is possible to have none, fewer, or more, in which case the extras are called supernumerary teeth. Wisdom teeth commonly affect other teeth as they develop, becoming impacted. They are often extracted when or even before this occurs.\n\nAgenesis of wisdom teeth differs by population, ranging from practically zero in Aboriginal Tasmanians to nearly 100% in indigenous Mexicans (see research paper with world map showing prevalence). The difference is related to the PAX9, and MSX1 gene (and perhaps other genes).\n\nWisdom teeth are vestigial third molars that helped human ancestors to grind plant tissue. It is thought that the skulls of human ancestors had larger jaws with more teeth, which possibly helped to chew foliage to compensate for a lack of ability to efficiently digest the cellulose that makes up a plant cell wall. After the advent of agriculture over 10,000 years ago, soft human diets became the norm, including carbohydrate and high energy foods. Such diets typically result in jaws growing with less forward growth than our paleolithic ancestors and not enough room for the wisdom teeth.\n\nWisdom teeth (often notated clinically as M3 for third molar) have long been identified as a source of problems and continue to be the most commonly impacted teeth in the human mouth. The oldest known impacted wisdom tooth belonged to a European woman of the Magdalenian period (18,000–10,000 BCE). A lack of room to allow the teeth to erupt results in a risk of periodontal disease and dental cavities that increases with age. Less than 2% of adults age 65 years or older maintain the teeth without cavities or periodontal disease and 13% maintain unimpacted wisdom teeth without cavities or periodontal disease. \nImpacted wisdom teeth are classified by the direction and depth of impaction, the amount of available space for tooth eruption and the amount soft tissue or bone that covers them. The classification structure allows clinicians to estimate the probabilities of impaction, infections and complications associated with wisdom teeth removal. Wisdom teeth are also classified by the presence of symptoms and disease.\n\nTreatment of an erupted wisdom tooth is the same as any other tooth in the mouth. If impacted, treatment can be localized to the infected tissue overlying the impaction, extraction or coronectomy.\n\nAlthough formally known as third molars, the common name is wisdom teeth because they appear so late – much later than the other teeth, at an age where people are presumably \"wiser\" than as a child, when the other teeth erupt. The term probably came as a translation of the Latin \"dens sapientiae\". Their eruption has been known to cause dental issues for millennia; it was noted at least as far back as Aristotle:\n\nNonetheless, molar impaction was relatively rare prior to the modern era. With the Industrial Revolution, the affliction became ten times more common, owing to the new prevalence of soft, processed, and sugary foods.\n\n"}
