{"id": "5657204", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5657204", "title": "1615 in music", "text": "1615 in music\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18949154", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18949154", "title": "Antonine Wall", "text": "Antonine Wall\n\nThe Antonine Wall, known to the Romans as \"Vallum Antonini\", was a turf fortification on stone foundations, built by the Romans across what is now the Central Belt of Scotland, between the Firth of Forth and the Firth of Clyde. Representing the northernmost frontier barrier of the Roman Empire, it spanned approximately and was about high and wide. Lidar scans have been carried out to establish the length of the wall and the Roman distance units used. Security was bolstered by a deep ditch on the northern side. It is thought that there was a wooden palisade on top of the turf. The barrier was the second of two \"great walls\" created by the Romans in what the English once called Northern Britain. Its ruins are less evident than the better-known Hadrian's Wall to the south, primarily because the turf and wood wall has largely weathered away, unlike its stone-built southern predecessor.\n\nConstruction began in AD 142 at the order of Roman Emperor Antoninus Pius, and took about 12 years to complete. Antoninus Pius never visited Britain, whereas his predecessor Hadrian did. Pressure from the Caledonians may have led Antoninus to send the empire's troops further north. The Antonine Wall was protected by 16 forts with small fortlets between them; troop movement was facilitated by a road linking all the sites known as the Military Way. The soldiers who built the wall commemorated the construction and their struggles with the Caledonians in decorative slabs, twenty of which survive. The wall was abandoned only eight years after completion, and the garrisons relocated back to Hadrian's Wall. In 208 Emperor Septimius Severus re-established legions at the wall and ordered repairs; this has led to the wall being referred to as the Severan Wall. The occupation ended a few years later, and the wall was never fortified again. Most of the wall and its associated fortifications have been destroyed over time, but some remains are visible. Many of these have come under the care of Historic Scotland and the UNESCO World Heritage Committee.\n\nRoman Emperor Antoninus Pius ordered the construction of the Antonine Wall around 142. Quintus Lollius Urbicus, governor of Roman Britain at the time, initially supervised the effort, which took about twelve years to complete. The wall stretches from Old Kilpatrick in West Dunbartonshire on the Firth of Clyde to Carriden near Bo'ness on the Firth of Forth. The wall was intended to extend Roman territory and dominance by replacing Hadrian's Wall to the south, as the frontier of \"Britannia\". But while the Romans did establish many forts and temporary camps further north of the Antonine Wall in order to protect their routes to the north of Scotland, they did not conquer the Caledonians, and the Antonine Wall suffered many attacks. The Romans called the land north of the wall \"Caledonia\", though in some contexts the term may refer to the whole area north of Hadrian's Wall.\n\nThe Antonine Wall was shorter than Hadrian's Wall and built of turf on a stone foundation, but it was still an impressive achievement. The stone foundations and wing walls of the original forts demonstrate that the original plan was to build a stone wall similar to Hadrian's Wall, but this was quickly amended. As built, the wall was typically a bank, about four metres (13 feet) high, made of layered turves and occasionally earth with a wide ditch on the north side, and a military way on the south. The Romans initially planned to build forts every , but this was soon revised to every , resulting in a total of nineteen forts along the wall. The best preserved but also one of the smallest forts is Rough Castle Fort. In addition to the forts, there are at least 9 smaller fortlets, very likely on Roman mile spacings, which formed part of the original scheme, some of which were later replaced by forts. The most visible fortlet is Kinneil, at the eastern end of the Wall, near Bo'ness.\n\nThere was once a remarkable Roman structure within sight of the Antonine Wall at Stenhousemuir. This was Arthur's O'on, a circular stone domed monument or rotunda, which may have been a temple, or a \"tropaeum\", a victory monument. It was demolished for its stone in 1743, though a replica exists at Penicuik House.\n\nIn addition to the line of the Wall itself there are a number of coastal forts both in the East (e.g. Inveresk) and West (Outerwards and Lurg Moor), which should be considered as outposts and/or supply bases to the Wall itself. In addition a number of forts farther north were brought back into service in the Gask Ridge area, including Ardoch, Strageath, Bertha (Perth) and probably Dalginross and Cargill.\n\nRecent research by Glasgow University has shown that the distance stones, stone sculptures unique to the Antonine Wall which were embedded in the wall to mark the lengths built by each legion, were brightly painted unlike their present bare appearance. These stones are preserved in the University's museum and are said to be the best-preserved examples of statuary from any Roman frontier. Several of the slabs have been analysed by various techniques including portable X-ray fluorescence (pXRF). Tiny remnants of paint have been detected by surface-enhanced Raman spectroscopy (SERS). Several of the distance slabs have been scanned and 3-D videos produced. There are plans to reproduce the slabs, both digitally and in real physical copies, with their authentic colours. A copy of the Bridgeness Slab has already been made and can be found in Bo'ness. It is also expected that lottery funding will allow replicas of distance markers to be placed along the length of the wall.\n\nThe wall was abandoned only eight years after completion, when the Roman legions withdrew to Hadrian's Wall in 162, and over time may have reached an accommodation with the Brythonic tribes of the area, whom they may have fostered as possible buffer states which would later become \"The Old North\". After a series of attacks in 197, the emperor Septimius Severus arrived in Scotland in 208 to secure the frontier, and repaired parts of the wall. Although this re-occupation only lasted a few years, the wall is sometimes referred to by later Roman historians as the Severan Wall. This led to later scholars like Bede mistaking references to the Antonine Wall for ones to Hadrian's Wall.\n\nIn the centuries since the Antonine Wall lay abandoned it had an influence over culture between the Forth and the Clyde.\n\nWriting in AD 730, Bede following Gildas mistakenly ascribes the construction of the Antonine Wall to the Britons in :\n\nBede associated Gildas' turf wall with the Antonine Wall. As for Hadrian's Wall, Bede again follows Gildas:\nBede obviously identified Gildas' stone wall as Hadrian's Wall, but he sets its construction in the 5th century rather than the 120s, and does not mention Hadrian. And he would appear to have deduced that the ditch-and-mound barrier known as the Vallum (just to the south of, and contemporary with, Hadrian's Wall) was the rampart constructed by Severus. Many centuries would pass before just who built what became apparent.\n\nIn medieval histories, such as the chronicles of John of Fordun, the wall is called \"Gryme's dyke\". Fordun says that the name came from the grandfather of the imaginary king Eugenius son of Farquahar. This evolved over time into Graham's dyke – a name still found in Bo'ness at the wall's eastern end – and then linked with Clan Graham. Of note is that Graeme in some parts of Scotland is a nickname for the devil, and Gryme's Dyke would thus be the Devil's Dyke, mirroring the name of the Roman Limes in Southern Germany often called 'Teufelsmauer'. Grímr and Grim are bynames for Odin or Wodan, who might be credited with the wish to build earthworks in unreasonably short periods of time. This name is the same one found as \"Grim's Ditch\" several times in England in connection with early ramparts: for example, near Wallingford, Oxfordshire or between Berkhamsted (Herts) and Bradenham (Bucks). Other names used by antiquarians include the Wall of Pius and the Antonine Vallum, after Antoninus Pius. Hector Boece in his 1527 \"History of Scotland\" called it the \"wall of Abercorn\", repeating the story that it had been destroyed by Graham.\n\nThe UK government's nomination of the Antonine Wall for World Heritage status to the international conservation body UNESCO was first officially announced in 2003. It has been backed by the Scottish Government since 2005 and by Scotland's then Culture Minister Patricia Ferguson since 2006. It became the UK's official nomination in late January 2007, and MSPs were called to support the bid anew in May 2007. The Antonine Wall was listed as an extension to the World Heritage Site \"Frontiers of the Roman Empire\" on 7 July 2008. Though the Antonine Wall is mentioned in the text, it does not appear on UNESCO's map of world heritage properties.\n\nSeveral individual sites along the line of the wall are in the care of Historic Scotland. These are at:\n\nAll sites are unmanned and open at all reasonable times.\n\nThe first capable effort to systematically map the Antonine Wall was undertaken in 1764 by William Roy, the forerunner of the Ordnance Survey. He provided accurate and detailed drawings of its remains, and where the wall has been destroyed by later development, his maps and drawings are now the only reliable record of it. Modern computer techniques like using GIS can now map the wall in 3-dimensions which makes it much easier to study for example how visible forts and fortlets were to their fellow soldiers along the wall.\n\nThe Antonine Wall is mentioned in Max Brooks' novel \"World War Z: An Oral History of the Zombie War\" (2006) as the last line of defense in Great Britain against the zombies.\n\nThe Northern Wall is also depicted in some of Rosemary Sutcliff's historical fiction novels: as a fully functioning outpost of Roman power in \"The Mark of the Horse Lord\" (1965) and as an abandoned ruin in \"Frontier Wolf\" (1980).\n\n"}
{"id": "54703266", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54703266", "title": "Arch Street Theatre", "text": "Arch Street Theatre\n\nThe Arch Street Theatre in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania was during the 19th century one of the three main Philadelphia theaters for plays; the other two were the Walnut Street Theatre and the Chestnut Street Theatre. The Arch Street Theatre opened on 1 October 1828 under the management of William B. Wood. The building's architect was John Haviland.\n\nThe building which housed the Arch Street Theatre was located between 6th and 7th Streets at 819 Arch Street. Famous performers, such as Fanny Davenport, Joseph Jefferson, and Charlotte Cushman, played at what was popularly called \"The Arch\". John Wilkes Booth joined the theatre's stock company in 1857 and played for a full season. He appeared occasionally at the Arch during the 1850s and early 1860s.\n\nIn the 1830s Edwin Forrest played many successful roles at the Arch, and several original plays written at his request debuted there.\n\nIn 1832 the Arch Street Theatre had an entire company of American actors, which was a first for American theater companies. The managers were William Forrest, William Duffy, and William Jones. The company included James E. Murdoch.\n\nIn 1860 the stockholders of the Arch suggested that Louisa Lane Drew should assume the management, and in 1861 the theatre was opened under the name \"Mrs. John Drew's Arch Street Theatre\". Louisa Lane Drew was the grandmother of Lionel, Ethel and John Barrymore.\n\nDuring the third season under Louisa Lane Drew's management, Lester Wallack, E. L. Davenport, and Edwin Booth acted at the Arch.\n\nIn the summer of 1863 the theatre was pulled down and rebuilt (with red plush seats and crystal chandeliers) from the stage to the façade; the seating capacity was one thousand, nine-hundred eleven.\n\nIn 1898 Morris Finkel rented the Arch Street Theatre and presented Yiddish theater for several months, including one week of performances by Keni Liptzin; however Finkel soon abandoned the project and the Arch returned to vaudeville. In 1909 Mike (Mordechai) Thomashefsky took over the Arch and presented both vaudeville and Yiddish theatre until his death in 1932.\n"}
{"id": "58979258", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58979258", "title": "Architecture of Macau", "text": "Architecture of Macau\n\nThe Architecture of Macau is the architecture that is found in Macau. Macau has diverse architecture from the casinos in its casino region to its tallest building, Grand Lisboa (which stands at 258 metres). Macau is influenced by both Cantonese and Portuguese cultures.\n\nMacau is a large city located off the south coast of Mainland China, with a population of approximately 630,000 people. and the official native languages being Cantonese and Portuguese. Macau is classified as a special administrative region (SAR), meaning it has separate executive, legislative and judicial systems to China. Macau was previously a Portuguese dependency, which ended in 1999 when it became autonomous. The architecture of Macau encompasses a mixture of world heritage listed and modern buildings, as well as multiple bridges and tunnels. \n\nWithin the region of Macau, there is a total of 50 Casinos spread across the cities of Macau, Cotai and Taipa. Being known as the ‘Las Vegas of China’, Macau has a substantial amount of casinos compared to other regions, with 30 in the city of Macau, 14 in Cotai and 6 in Taipa. An example of a famous Casino in Macau is the ‘MGM MACAU’, which stands at 154 metres tall and is located near the southern coast of the northern region of Macau. Other casinos in Macau include the Grand Lisboa Casino & Hotel, Wynn Casino Macau and Sands Macao Hotel, all of which are clustered around each other and near the MGM MACAU. This architectural cluster centralises the casinos near the southern coast of Macau, creating a ‘hub’ for gambling and accommodation.\n\nWithin the region of Macau, there are 20 completed buildings and 2 under construction that are above 150 metres tall, which ranks Macau as #48 in the world by number of buildings over 150 metres. Macau's first building over 150m was the Bank of China, which is located in the City of Macau and currently stands at 163m (535 feet) tall. \nThe tallest completed building in Macau is the Grand Lisboa Casino & Hotel, with an architectural height to the tip of 258m (846 feet) and a residential height of 197.7m (649 feet). These statistics rank the height of the building as #332 in the world. The building began construction in 2003 and was completed in 2008. Functioning as a hotel/casino and made from predominately steel, concrete and glass, it was designed by architectural company “Dennis Lau & Ng Chun Man Architects & Engineers (HK) Ltd. (DLN)” as their 9th tallest building. The Grand Lisboa has 48 floors above ground and 4 below, with 433 hotel rooms and 338 parking spots.\n\nMacau's most recently constructed tall building, finished in 2018, is the Morpheus building, which is a multi story building that stands at 155.2m (509 feet) tall with 40 floors above ground and 770 hotel rooms. Architecturally, the Morpheus is unconventionally constructed with an exoskeleton design and 3 separate openings that travel through the middle of the building. The building was designed by the late architect Dame Zaha Hadid and was developed by Melco Crown Entertainment Limited. \n\nWithin the table below, is a list of the top 20 tallest completed buildings in Macau ranked upon structural height. The amount of floors only includes above ground floors.\nTechnically the tallest structure in Macau, however not classified under the same category as the tallest buildings in Macau, the Macau Tower (pictured below) is 338m (1102.9 feet) tall to the tip. The tower began construction in 1998 and was opened on the 19th December, 2001. It was designed by architect, Gordon Moller and was inspired by the Sky Tower in Auckland, New Zealand. It currently holds the Guinness World Record for the highest commercial bungy jump point at 233m (764 feet) and the first person to jump was film star Edison Chen (China) in 2006.\nThe Zhuhai Bridge, opened in October 2018, is the world's longest sea bridge, spanning 55 kilometres (34 miles) from Hong Kong to Macau and Mainland Chinese city; Zuhai. The bridge cost approximately $20 Billion US Dollars to complete and was under construction from December 2009. The bridge is designed to last over 120 years, withstanding pressures from earthquakes and typhoons. Through employing 400,000 tonnes of steel in its construction, with 30km worth of bridge above the Pearl River Delta and 7km worth of tunnel running between two artificial islands. The bridge is 3 lanes wide on each side and incorporates merging channels to transfer the traffic from the left to the right as it is technically in Chinese territory. To use the bridge, drivers from Hong Kong will need to attain special permits, of which there are only 300.\n\nPoint da Amizade, which is Portuguese for the ‘friendship bridge’, connects the Macau Peninsula to Taipa Island and Pac On. With its construction beginning in June 1990, the bridge took almost 4 years to complete and was officially opened to motor vehicles in March 1994. The bridge spans over 4.7 kilometres (2.9 miles), with a maximum height of 30 metres above the sea and is 18 metres wide at its widest point, accommodating four lanes of traffic. The bridge has two crests at different points to allow for sea traffic to travel beneath. The Sai Van Bridge, completed in December 2004, is also a sea bridge used to connect the Macau Peninsula and Taipa Island. The full length of the bridge is 2.2km (1.37 miles) long, with its pylon heights standing 85 metres above ground level. The bridge was designed by Pengest Planeamento to accommodate both road traffic and railway carriages and is built primarily from steel, steel cables and prestressed concrete. The total cost of the bridge was US$70 million.\n\nThe smallest bridge in Macau, linking it across the border to Hengquin Island in Zhuhai, is the Lotus Bridge. The bridge is approximately 900m long and its construction was completed in 1999. It specifically links the Cotai reclamation area of Macau to Hengquin Island with 3 lanes either side of the bridge. The bridge cost US$25 million to construct, which was shared between the Macau and Chinese governments. The Lotus Bridge uses an ‘asymmetric partial cloverleaf’ design, which is designed to re-direct traffic onto the correct side of the road when entering their respective countries, with China being the right and Macau being the left.\n\nMost of the historic architecture and landmarks within Macau are situated in the Historic Centre of Macau, which is listed as a UNESCO World Heritage Site. As seen within the table below, there are over 20 buildings and landmarks within the Historic Centre, however in terms of historic architecture, there are a bit less than 20. Some of the architecture within the Historic Centre includes the Holy House of Mercy, Mandarin's House and the A-Ma Temple. As the Historic Centre of Macau is host to both buildings and landmarks, below is a list of the historic architecture, in no particular order, with the name and year constructed included. \n\nThe Holy House of Mercy is a UNESCO World Heritage site, constructed in 1569 and situated within the Historic Centre of Macau, in the Senado Square. The building was designed and constructed by D. Belchior Carneiro, following a neo-classical architectural trend through incorporating 14 arches on the face and stands 2 stories high. It served as a medical clinic for some time, later becoming an orphanage. It is the oldest social solidarity institution in the Macau Special Administrative Region and has undergone multiple renovations, with the most recent in 2003 on the building's Rehabilitation Centre for the Blind. \n\nOne of the oldest structures in and officially the oldest temple in Macau, the A-Ma Temple was built in 1488 on the southwest Macau Peninsula. It is made up of six separate architectural components within the entire vicinity, primarily using stone, bricks and granite to build the temple. Pictured below, a notable aspect of the temple is the Gate Pavilion, which measures to be 4.5 metres wide and is made entirely from granite.\n\nThe Mandarin's House, built in 1869 and located at No. 10 Travessa de António da Silva, is a traditional Chinese styled compound that once housed Chinese Literary personality Zhen g Guanying. The compound covers approximately 4,000 square metres of land and it encompasses architectural elements of Art Deco as well as traditional Chinese styling with Western influence. In 2001 the Government took over the complex from its private owners and in 2005 it became a UNESCO World Heritage Site\n"}
{"id": "1252237", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1252237", "title": "Artists and repertoire", "text": "Artists and repertoire\n\nArtists and repertoire (A&R) is the division of a record label or music publishing company that is responsible for talent scouting and overseeing the artistic development of recording artists and songwriters. It also acts as a liaison between artists and the record label or publishing company; every activity involving artists to the point of album release is generally considered under the purview, and responsibility, of A&R.\n\nThe A&R division of a record label is responsible for finding new recording artists and bringing those artists to the record company. Personnel in the A&R division are expected to understand the current tastes of the market and to be able to find artists that will be commercially successful. For this reason, A&R people are often young and many are musicians, music journalists or record producers.\n\nAn A&R executive is authorized to offer a record contract, often in the form of a \"deal memo\": a short informal document that establishes a business relationship between the recording artist and the record company. The actual contract negotiations will typically be carried out by rival entertainment lawyers hired by the musician's manager and the record company.\n\nA&R executives rely mostly on the word of mouth of trusted associates, critics and business contacts, rather than on unsolicited demo tapes. They also tend to favor the bands that play in the same city as the record label's offices.\n\nThe A&R division of a record label oversees the recording and format process. This includes helping the artist to find the right record producer, scheduling time in a recording studio and advising the artist on all aspects of making a high-quality recording. They work with the artist to choose the best songs (i.e.) to record. For artists who do not write their own music, the A&R person will assist in finding songs and songwriters. A&R executives maintain contact with their counterparts at music publishing companies to get new songs and material from songwriters and producers.\n\nAs the record nears completion, the A&R department works closely with the artist to determine whether the record is acceptable to the record company. This process may include suggesting that new songs need to be written or that some album tracks need to be re-recorded. A key issue is whether the album has a single: a particular track which can be used to market the record on radio.\n\nOnce the record is completed, the A&R department consults with marketing, promotion, the artist and their management to choose one or more singles to help promote the record.\n\nThe tastes of particular A&R executives have influenced the course of music history. A&R man John H. Hammond discovered Billie Holiday, Bob Dylan, Aretha Franklin and Bruce Springsteen. Hammond's colleagues were initially skeptical of these artists because none of them appeared to be creating \"commercial\" music. Hammond's instincts proved to be correct, and these artists went on to sell hundreds of millions of records. George Daly, Hammond's colleague at Columbia Records, proved the same instinct with bands as varied as outliers as The Tubes and Tool during his career. Geffen Records' Gary Gersh signed the band Nirvana at a time when alternative rock music was not considered commercial. Gersh was able to convince his co-workers to push the record in spite of their misgivings. In cases like these, A&R people have radically changed the direction of popular musical tastes and introduced large numbers of people to new sounds.\n\nThis kind of prescience is, however, the exception rather than the rule. Historically, A&R executives have tended to sign new artists that fit into recent trends and who resemble acts that are currently successful. For example, Columbia Records' A&R man in the 1950s, Mitch Miller, favored traditional pop singers like Guy Mitchell and Patti Page, and rejected early rock-'n'-rollers Elvis Presley and Buddy Holly.\n\nThis \"trend following\" mindset has generated several waves of narrowly defined genres, leading to a perception of triteness, including teen pop (1998–2001), alternative rock (1993–1996), glam metal (1986–1991) and disco (1976–1978). Trend following can be counter-productive, since it has often led to a backlash. Towards the end of the life of each wave, record companies have found themselves faced with enormous losses, as consumers' tastes changed. For example, at the end of the disco boom in 1978, millions of records were returned by record retailers, causing a deep recession in the music business that lasted until 1982, when Michael Jackson's \"Thriller\" finally brought the public back into record stores in large numbers.\n\nThe general move towards more conservative and business-minded signings from the 1980s onwards is seen to be symptomatic of an industry where the most powerful figures are no longer music fans or people with musical backgrounds, but business people. Traditionally A&R executives were composers, arrangers and producers – Atlantic Records's heads Jerry Wexler and Ahmet Ertegun were producers and composers respectively – but an A&R with musical ability and knowledge has become a rarity, with Ron Fair and Martin Kierszenbaum being notable recent exceptions. The composer and arranger Richard Niles has said,\n\nWhat you've got now is huge multinational companies where most of their A&R staff are businessmen. They’re people who look at music from the standpoint of marketing, not from the standpoint of music and talent. They will say, \"Go out and get me anything that's popular now.\"\n\nHip hop group Wu-Tang Clan referenced this stereotype of the business-minded A&R executive in their single \"Protect Ya Neck\", metaphorically likening them to \"mountain climbers\".\n\nAccording to Rhythm King Records and Lizard King Records founder Martin Heath, the A&R community in the UK is more integrated than it is in the US, being very London-centric and encompassing a relatively small number of people. \"If scouts are chasing a band, you’ll see the same thirty people in one room. You get a herd mentality in the UK, but also some very diverse signings as well,\" he said in an interview with HitQuarters. Heath believes that in the USA it is more typical for A&R to wait until a band is established – having attracted other offers or achieved a level of sales – before taking action, a technique which often works out as being more expensive.\n\nNew forms of digital distribution have changed the relationship between consumers and the music they choose. Gerd Leonhard and others argue that the wide selection of music on digital services has allowed music consumers to bypass the traditional role of A&R. In the wake of declining record sales, a large number of A&R staffers have been terminated. It is unclear whether A&R executives will shape the future of musical tastes as they have in the past.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6079658", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6079658", "title": "Arts in Australia", "text": "Arts in Australia\n\nThe Arts in Australia refers to the art produced in the area of, on the subject of, or by the people of the Commonwealth of Australia and its preceding Indigenous and colonial societies. Indigenous Australian art, music and story telling attaches to a 40–60,000-year heritage and continues to affect the broader arts and culture of Australia. During its early western history, Australia was a collection of British colonies, therefore, its literary, visual and theatrical traditions began with strong links to the broader traditions of English and Irish literature, British art and English and Celtic music. However, the works of Australian artists – including Indigenous as well as Anglo-Celtic and multicultural migrant Australians – has, since 1788, introduced the character of a new continent to the global arts scene – exploring such themes as Aboriginality, Australian landscape, migrant and national identity, distance from other Western nations and proximity to Asia, the complexities of urban living and the \"beauty and the terror\" of life in the Australian bush.\n\nNotable Australian writers have included the Nobel laureate Patrick White, the novelists Colleen McCullough and Henry Handel Richardson and the bush poets Henry Lawson and Banjo Paterson. Leading Australian performing artists have included Robert Helpmann of the Australian Ballet, Joan Sutherland of Opera Australia and the humourist Barry Humphries. Prominent Australian musical artists have included the Australian country music singer Slim Dusty, rising star Cody Simpson, folk-rocker Paul Kelly, \"pop princess\" Kylie Minogue and rock n roll bands the Bee Gees, AC/DC, INXS and Powderfinger. Quintessentially Australian art styles include the Heidelberg School the Hermannsburg School and the Western Desert Art Movement. Australian cinema has a long tradition with a body of work producing popular classics such as \"Crocodile Dundee\" and \"The Man From Snowy River\", and arthouse successes such as \"Picnic at Hanging Rock\" and \"Ten Canoes\". Prominent Australian trained filmed artists include Errol Flynn, Mel Gibson, Nicole Kidman, Russell Crowe and Cate Blanchett.\n\nNotable institutions for the arts include the UNESCO listed Sydney Opera House, the National Gallery of Victoria, the National Gallery of Australia in Canberra and the National Institute of Dramatic Art in Sydney.\n\nThe arts in Australia, including the fields of cinema, music, visual arts, theatre, dance and crafts often reflect general trends in Western arts. However, the arts as practiced by indigenous Australians represent a unique Australian cultural tradition, and Australia's landscape and history have contributed to some unique variations in the styles inherited by Australia's various migrant communities.\n\nAt the close of the 19th century, the painters of the Heidelberg School began to capture the unique colours of the Australian bush, famed writers Henry Lawson and Banjo Paterson presented conflicting views of the harshness and romance of life in Australia, and performing artists like opera singer Dame Nellie Melba made a mark internationally in classical European culture. During the 20th century, writers and performers like C J Dennis, Barry Humphries and Paul Hogan both mocked and celebrated Australian cultural stereotypes, while shifting demographics saw a diversification of artistic output, with writers like feminist Germaine Greer challenging traditional cultural norms.\n\nAustralia's capital cities each support traditional \"high culture\" institutions in the form of major art galleries, ballet troupes, theaters, symphony orchestras, opera houses and dance companies. Leading Australian performers in these fields have included the opera Dames Nellie Melba and Joan Sutherland, dancers Edouard Borovansky and Sir Robert Helpmann, and choreographer/dancers such as Graeme Murphy and Meryl Tankard. Opera Australia is based in Sydney at the world-renowned Sydney Opera House. The Australian Ballet, Melbourne and Sydney symphony orchestras are also well regarded cultural institutions.\n\nOrganisations such as the Sydney Theatre Company and National Institute of Dramatic Art have fostered students of theatre, film, and television several of whom have continued to international success, with actors like Cate Blanchett and Geoffrey Rush having been associated with both institutions.\n\nIndependent culture thrives in all capital cities and exists in most large regional towns. The independent arts of music, film, art and street art are the most extensive. Melbourne's independent music scene, is one of the largest in the world, whilst another can be found in the multitude of international street artists visiting Melbourne and, to a lesser extent, other major cities, to work for a period of time. As of February 2015, Arts and recreation services was the strongest industry in Australia by total number of employed persons growing by 20.59% since the same time in 2013.\n\nThe visual arts have a long history in Australia, dating back around 30,000 years, and examples of ancient Aboriginal rock art can be found throughout the continent, notably in national parks such as the UNESCO-listed sites at Uluru and Kakadu National Park in the Northern Territory, and also within protected parks in urban areas such as Ku-ring-gai Chase National Park in Sydney. In the mid-twentieth century, the landscape paintings of Albert Namatjira were popular and received national and international acclaim. Since the 1970s, contemporary Indigenous Australian artists have used acrylic paints in styles such as that of the Western Desert Art Movement, which leading critic Robert Hughes saw as \"the last great art movement of the 20th century\". Art is important both culturally and economically to Indigenous society; art critic Sasha Grishin concluded that central Australian Indigenous communities have \"the highest per capita concentrations of artists anywhere in the world\". Contemporary artists whose work has been exhibited internationally such as at the Venice Biennale, include Rover Thomas and Emily Kngwarreye, while designs were commissioned from several nationally recognised artists in 2006 for the new Musée du quai Branly buildings. The artists included Paddy Bedford, John Mawurndjul, Ningura Napurrula, Lena Nyadbi, Michael Riley, Judy Watson, Tommy Watson and Gulumbu Yunupingu.\n\nFollowing the arrival of permanent European settlement in Australia in 1788, the story of early Australian painting has been described as requiring of artists a shift from a \"European sense of light\" to an \"Australian sense of light\". The origins of distinctly Australian painting is often associated with the Heidelberg School of the 1880s–1890s. Artists such as Arthur Streeton, Frederick McCubbin and Tom Roberts applied themselves to recreating in their art a truer sense of light and colour as seen in the Australian landscape. Like the European Impressionists, they painted in the open air. These artists found inspiration in the unique light and colour which characterises the Australian bush.\n\nAmong the first Australian artists to gain a reputation overseas was the impressionist John Peter Russell during the 1880s. Another notable expatriate artist of the era was Rupert Bunny, a painter of landscape, allegory and sensual and intimate portraits. Ernst William Christmas also made a name internationally.\n\nAmong the principal Australian artists of the 20th century are the surrealists Sidney Nolan, Arthur Boyd and Russell Drysdale, the avant-garde Brett Whiteley, the painter/sculptors William Dobell and Norman Lindsay, the landscapists Albert Namatjira and Lloyd Rees, the modernist photographer Max Dupain, and the Aboriginal artist Emily Kngwarreye. Each has helped to define the unique character of the visual arts in Australia.\n\nModernism arrived in Australia early in the 20th century. Among the earliest exponents were Grace Cossington Smith and Margaret Preston. Humorist Barry Humphries has been a provocative exponent of dadaism in Australia.\n\nPopular with the general community have been Ken Done, best known for his design work, Pro Hart and Rolf Harris, a British/Australian living in the UK who is popular as a musician, composer, painter and television host. Ricky Swallow, Patricia Piccinini, Susan Norrie, Callum Morton, Rover Thomas and Emily Kngwarreye have all represented Australians at the Venice Biennale using the traditional mediums of sculpture, photography and painting while instilling them with a renewed vigour. A new generation of Aboriginal artists, while not rejecting the culture of the past, endeavour to move the artistic dialog forward, including Gordon Bennett, Rosella Namok, Richard Bell and Julie Dowling.\n\nIn recent years the art market has been democratised and art is judged on its merits rather than snobbery. A cohort of male artists aged under fifty (Dane Lovett, Adam Cullen, Ben Quilty, Anthony Bennett, Simon Cuthbert, Rhys Lee, Ben Frost and Alasdair McIntyre) have an expressive style and use humour in their work.\n\nIn addition street art is also a prominent feature in major cities such as Melbourne and Sydney. Though there is some debate over the legality, some councils have expressed greater recognition of the urban art movement.\n\nAustralia has a number of notable museums and galleries, including the National Gallery of Victoria in Melbourne, the National Gallery of Australia, National Portrait Gallery of Australia and National Museum of Australia in Canberra, and the Art Gallery of New South Wales in Sydney.\n\nAustralia has a long history of film production. Australia's first dedicated film studio, the Limelight Department, was created by The Salvation Army in Melbourne in 1898, and is believed to have been the world's first. The world's first feature-length film was the Australian production \"The Story of the Kelly Gang\" of 1906. After such early successes, Australian cinema suffered from the rise of Hollywood.\n\nIn 1933, \"In the Wake of the Bounty\" was directed by Charles Chauvel, who cast Tasmanian-born Errol Flynn as the leading actor. Flynn went on to a celebrated career in Hollywood. Chauvel directed a number of successful Australian films, the last being 1955's \"Jedda\", which was notable for being the first Australian film to be shot in colour, and the first to feature Aboriginal actors in lead roles and to be entered at the Cannes Film Festival. It was not until 2006 and Rolf de Heer's \"Ten Canoes\" that a major feature-length drama was shot in an indigenous language.\n\nThe first Australian Oscar was won by 1942's \"Kokoda Front Line!\", directed by Ken G. Hall.\n\nDuring the late 1960s and 1970s an influx of government funding saw the development of a new generation of filmmakers telling distinctively Australian stories, including directors Peter Weir, George Miller and Bruce Beresford. Films such as \"Picnic at Hanging Rock\" (1975) and \"Sunday Too Far Away\" (1975) had an immediate international impact. The 1980s is often regarded as a golden age of Australian cinema, with many successful films, from the historical drama of \"Gallipoli\" (1981) to the dark science fiction of the \"Mad Max\" sequels (1981–85), the romantic adventure of \"The Man From Snowy River\" (1982) or the comedy of \"Crocodile Dundee\" (1986).\n\nA major theme of Australian cinema has been survival in the harsh Australian landscape. A number of thrillers and horror films dubbed \"outback gothic\" have been created, including \"Wake in Fright\", \"Walkabout\" (1971), \"The Cars That Ate Paris\" (1974) and \"Picnic at Hanging Rock\" (1975), \"Razorback\" (1984) and \"Shame\" (1988) in the 1980s, and \"Japanese Story\" (2003), \"The Proposition\" (2005) and the world-renowned \"Wolf Creek\" (2006) in the 21st century. These films depict the Australian outback and its wilderness and creatures as deadly, and its people as outcasts and psychopaths disconnected to modern urban Australia. These are combined with futuristic post-apocalyptic themes in the \"Mad Max\" series.\n\nThe 1990s saw a run of successful comedies such as \"Strictly Ballroom\" (1992), \"Muriel's Wedding\" (1994) and \"The Castle\" (1996), which helped launch the careers of Toni Collette, P. J. Hogan, Eric Bana and Baz Luhrmann. This group was joined in Hollywood by actors including Russell Crowe, Cate Blanchett and Heath Ledger who also rose to international prominence.\n\nThe domestic film industry continues to produce a reasonable number of films each year. The industry is also supported by US producers who produce in Australia following the decision by Fox head Rupert Murdoch to utilise new studios in Melbourne and Sydney where filming could be completed well below US costs. Notable productions include \"The Matrix\", \"Star Wars\" episodes and , and \"Australia\" starring Nicole Kidman and Hugh Jackman.\n\nAustralian writers who have obtained international renown include the Nobel winning author Patrick White, as well as authors Peter Carey, Thomas Keneally, Colleen McCullough, Nevil Shute and Morris West. Notable contemporary expatriate authors include the feminist Germaine Greer, art historian Robert Hughes and humorists Barry Humphries and Clive James.\n\nAmong the important authors of classic Australian works are the poets Henry Lawson, Banjo Paterson, C J Dennis and Dorothea McKellar. Dennis wrote in the Australian vernacular, while McKellar wrote the iconic patriotic poem\" My Country\". At one point, Lawson and Paterson contributed a series of verses to \"The Bulletin\" magazine in which they engaged in a literary debate about the nature of life in Australia. Lawson said Paterson was a romantic and Paterson said Lawson was full of doom and gloom. Lawson is widely regarded as one of Australia's greatest writers of short stories, while Paterson's poems The Man From Snowy River and Clancy of the Overflow remain amongst the most popular Australian bush poems. Significant political poets of the 20th century included Dame Mary Gilmore and Judith Wright. Among the best known contemporary poets are Les Murray and Bruce Dawe.\n\nNovelists of classic Australian works include Marcus Clarke (\"For the Term of His Natural Life\"), Henry Handel Richardson (\"The Fortunes of Richard Mahony\"), Joseph Furphy (\"Such Is Life\"), Miles Franklin (\"My Brilliant Career\") and Ruth Park (\"The Harp in the South\"). In terms of children's literature, Norman Lindsay (\"The Magic Pudding\") and May Gibbs (\"Snugglepot and Cuddlepie\") are among the Australian classics, while eminent Australian playwrights have included Steele Rudd, David Williamson, Alan Seymour and Nick Enright.\n\nAlthough historically only a small proportion of Australia's population have lived outside the major cities, many of Australia's most distinctive stories and legends originate in the outback, in the drovers and squatters and people of the barren, dusty plains.\n\nContemporary works dealing with the migrant experience include Melina Marchetta's \"Looking for Alibrandi\" and Anh Do's memoir \"The Happiest Refugee\", which won the Indie Book of the Year Award for 2011 and tells the story of his experience as a Vietnamese refugee travelling to and growing up in Australia.\n\nDavid Unaipon is known as the first indigenous author. Oodgeroo Noonuccal was the first Aboriginal Australian to publish a book of verse. A significant contemporary account of the experiences of Indigenous Australia can be found in Sally Morgan's \"My Place\".\n\nCharles Bean (\"The Story of Anzac: From the Outbreak of War to the End of the First Phase of the Gallipoli Campaign May 4, 191\"5, 1921) Geoffrey Blainey (\"The Tyranny of Distance\", 1966), Robert Hughes (\"The Fatal Shore\", 1987), Manning Clark \"(A History of Australia\", 1962–87), and Marcia Langton (\"First Australians\", 2008) are authors of important Australian histories.\n\nTraditional Indigenous Australian dance was closely associated with song and was understood and experienced as making present the reality of the Dreamtime. In some instances, they would imitate the actions of a particular animal in the process of telling a story. For the people in their own country it defined to roles, responsibilities and the place itself. These ritual performances gave them an understanding of themselves in the interplay of social, geographical and environmental forces. The performances were associated with specific places and dance grounds were often sacred places. Body decoration and specific gestures related to kin and other relationships (such as to Dreamtime beings with which individuals and groups). For a number of Indigenous Australian groups, their dances were secret and or sacred, gender could also be an important factor in some ceremonies with men and women having separate ceremonial traditions.\n\nThe term Corroboree is commonly used in general Australian culture to refer to Australian Aboriginal dances, however, this term has its origins among the people of the Sydney region. In a number of places Australian Aboriginal people will perform \"corroborees\" for tourists.\n\nIn the latter part of the 20th century the influence of Indigenous Australian dance traditions has been seen with the development of concert dance, particularly in contemporary dance with the National Aboriginal Islander Skills Development Association providing training to Indigenous Australians in dance and the Bangarra Dance Theatre.\n\nBush dance has developed in Australia as a form of traditional dance, drawing from English, Irish, Scottish and other European dance. Favourite dances in the community include such as the Irish Céilidh \"Pride of Erin\" and the quadrille \"The Lancers\". Locally originated dances include the \"Waves of Bondi\", the Melbourne Shuffle and New Vogue.\n\nThe Australian Ballet is the foremost classical ballet company in Australia. It was founded by the English ballerina Dame Peggy van Praagh in 1962 and is today recognised as one of the world's major international ballet companies. It is based in Melbourne and performs works from the classical repertoire as well as contemporary works by major Australian and international choreographers. As of 2010, it was presenting approximately 200 performances in cities and regional areas around Australia each year as well as international tours. Regular venues include: the Melbourne Arts Centre, Sydney Opera House, Sydney Theatre, Adelaide Festival Centre\nand Queensland Performing Arts Centre. Robert Helpmann is among Australia's best known ballerinos.\n\nMany immigrant communities continue their own dance traditions on a professional or amateur basis. Traditional dances from a large number of ethnic backgrounds are danced in Australia, helped by the presence of enthusiastic immigrants and their Australian-born families. It is quite common to see dances from the Baltic region, as well as Scottish, Irish, Indian, Indonesian or African dance being taught at community centres and dance schools in Australia.\n\nBaz Luhrmann's popular 1992 film \"Strictly Ballroom\", starring Paul Mercurio contributed to an increased interest in dance competition in Australia, and a number of popular dance shows including \"So You Think You Can Dance\" have featured on television in recent years.\n\nAboriginal song was an integral part of Aboriginal culture. The most famous feature of their music is the didgeridoo. This wooden instrument, used amongst the Aboriginal tribes of northern Australia, makes a distinctive droning sound and its use has been adopted by a wide variety of non-Aboriginal performers.\n\nAboriginal musicians have turned their hand to Western popular musical forms, often to considerable commercial success. Pioneers included Lionel Rose, and Jimmy Little, while notable contemporary examples include Archie Roach, the Warumpi Band, NoKTuRNL and Yothu Yindi. Geoffrey Gurrumul Yunupingu (formerly of Yothu Yindi) has attained international success singing contemporary music in English and in the language of the Yolngu. Christine Anu is a successful Torres Strait Islander singer.\n\nAustralian country music has been popular among indigenous communities, with performers including Troy Cassar-Daley rising to national prominence.\n\nAmongst young Australian aborigines, African-American and Aboriginal hip hop music and clothing is popular. Aboriginal boxing champion and former rugby league player Anthony Mundine identified US rapper Tupac Shakur as a personal inspiration, after Mundine's release of his 2007 single, \"Platinum Ryder\".\n\nThe Deadlys are an annual celebration of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander achievement in music, sport, entertainment and community.\n\nThe early Anglo-Celtic immigrants of the 18th and 19th centuries introduced folk ballad traditions which were adapted to Australian themes: \"Bound for Botany Bay\" tells of the voyage of British convicts to Sydney, \"The Wild Colonial Boy\" evokes the spirit of the bushrangers, and \"Click Go the Shears\" speaks of the life of Australian shearers. The lyrics of Australia's best-known folk song, \"Waltzing Matilda\", were written by the bush poet Banjo Paterson in 1895. Adopted by Australian soldiers during World War I, this song remains popular and is often sung at sporting events, including the closure of the Sydney Olympics in 2000, by Australian country music singer Slim Dusty.\n\nOther well-known singers of Australian folk music include Rolf Harris (who wrote \"Tie Me Kangaroo Down Sport\"), John Williamson, and Eric Bogle whose 1972 song \"And the Band Played Waltzing Matilda\" is a sorrowful lament to the Gallipoli Campaign. Bush dance is a traditional style of dance from Australia with strong Celtic roots, and influenced country music. It is generally accompanied by such instruments as the fiddle, accordion, concertina and percussion instruments. A well-known Bush band is The Bushwackers.\n\nThe national anthem of Australia is \"Advance Australia Fair\":\n\nUnofficial pop music anthems of Australia include Peter Allen's \"I Still Call Australia Home\" and Men at Work's \"Down Under\".\n\nThe earliest Western musical influences in Australia can be traced back to two distinct sources: the first free settlers who brought with them the European classical music tradition, and the large body of convicts and sailors, who brought the traditional folk music of England, Ireland, Scotland and Wales. The practicalities of building a colony mean that there is very little music extant from this early period although there are samples of music originating from Hobart and Sydney that date back to the early 19th century.\n\nNellie Melba (1861–1931) travelled to Europe in 1886 to commence her international career as an opera singer. She became among the best known Australians of the period and participated in early gramophone recording and radio broadcasting.\n\nThe establishment of choral societies (c. 1850) and symphony orchestras (c. 1890) led to increased compositional activity, although many Australian classical composers attempted to work entirely within European models. A lot of works leading up to the first part of the 20th century were heavily influenced by the folk music of other countries (Percy Grainger's \"Country Gardens\" of 1918 being a good example of this) and a very conservative British orchestral tradition.\n\nIn the war and post-war eras, as pressure built to assert a national identity in the face of the looming superpower of the United States and the \"motherland\" Britain, composers looked to their surroundings for inspiration. John Antill and Peter Sculthorpe began to incorporate elements of Aboriginal music, and Richard Meale drew influence from south-east Asia (notably using the harmonic properties of the Balinese Gamelan, as had Percy Grainger in an earlier generation).\n\nBy the beginning of the 1960s, Australian classical music erupted with influences, with composers incorporating disparate elements into their work, ranging from Aboriginal and south-east Asian music and instruments, to American jazz and blues, to the belated discovery of European atonality and the avant-garde. Composers like Don Banks, Don Kay, Malcolm Williamson and Colin Brumby epitomise this period. In recent times composers including Liza Lim, Carl Vine, Georges Lentz, Matthew Hindson, Nigel Westlake, Ross Edwards, Graeme Koehne, Elena Kats-Chernin, Richard Mills and Brett Dean have embodied the pinnacle of established Australian composers.\n\nWell-known Australian classical performers include: sopranos Dame Joan Sutherland, Dame Joan Hammond, Joan Carden, Yvonne Kenny, Sara Macliver and Emma Matthews; pianists Roger Woodward, Eileen Joyce, Michael Kieran Harvey, Geoffrey Tozer, Geoffrey Douglas Madge, Leslie Howard and Ian Munro; guitarists John Williams and Slava Grigoryan; horn player Barry Tuckwell; oboist Diana Doherty; violinists Richard Tognetti and Elizabeth Wallfisch; cellists John Addison and David Pereira; organist Christopher Wrench; orchestras like the Sydney Symphony Orchestra, the Melbourne Symphony Orchestra, the Australian Chamber Orchestra and the Australian Brandenburg Orchestra; and conductors Sir Bernard Heinze, Sir Charles Mackerras, Richard Bonynge, Simone Young and Geoffrey Simon. Indigenous performers like didgeridoo player William Barton and immigrant musicians like Egyptian-born oud virtuoso Joseph Tawadros have stimulated interest in their own music traditions and have also collaborated with other musicians and ensembles both in Australia and internationally.\n\nAustralia has produced a large variety of popular music from the internationally renowned work of the Bee Gees, AC/DC, INXS, Nick Cave, Cody Simpson or Kylie Minogue to the popular local content of John Farnham or Paul Kelly.\n\nAmong the brightest stars of early Australian rock and roll was Johnny O'Keefe, who formed a band in 1956; his hit \"Wild One\" made him the first Australian rock'n'roller to reach the national charts. While US and British content dominated airwaves and record sales into the 1960s, local successes began to emerge – notably The Easybeats and the folk-pop group The Seekers had significant local success and some international recognition, while the bands the Bee Gees and AC/DC had their first hits in Australia before going on to international success.\n\nThe arrival of the 1961 underground movement into the mainstream in the early 1970s changed Australian music permanently. Skyhooks were far from the first people to write songs in Australia by Australians about Australia, but they were the first ones to make good money doing it. The two best-selling Australian albums made up to that time put Australian music on the map. Within a few years, the novelty had worn off and it became commonplace to hear distinctively Australian lyrics and sounds side-by-side with imports.\n\nDuring the 1970s, 1980s and 1990s Australian performers continued to do well on the local and international music scenes, for example Cold Chisel, INXS, Men at Work and Kylie Minogue, Natalie Imbruglia, Savage Garden and Silverchair. In the early 21st century, bands such as Jet, Wolfmother, Eskimo Joe, Grinspoon, The Vines, The Living End, Pendulum, Delta Goodrem and others were enjoying success internationally.\n\nDomestically, John Farnham has remained one of Australia's best-known performers, with a career spanning over 40 years. Singer-songwriter Paul Kelly whose music style straddles folk, rock, and country has been described as the \"poet laureate\" of Australian music.\n\nThe national expansion of ABC youth radio station Triple J during the 1990s has increased the profile and availability of home-grown talent to listeners nationwide. Since the mid-1990s a string of successful alternative Australian acts have emerged; artists to achieve both underground (critical) and mainstream (commercial) success include You Am I, Grinspoon, Powderfinger and Jet.\n\nAustralia has a long tradition of country music, which has developed a style quite distinct from its US counterpart, influenced by Celtic folk ballads and the traditions of Australian bush balladeers like Henry Lawson and Banjo Paterson. Pioneers of popular country music in Australia included Tex Morton in the 1930s and Smoky Dawson from the 1940s onward.\n\nSlim Dusty (1927–2003) was known as the \"King of Australian Country Music\". His successful career spanned almost six decades and his 1957 hit \"A Pub With No Beer\" was the biggest-selling record by an Australian to that time, the first Australian single to go gold, and the first and only 78 rpm record to be awarded a gold disc. Dusty recorded and released his one-hundredth album in the year 2000 and was given the honour of singing \"Waltzing Matilda\" in the closing ceremony of the Sydney 2000 Olympic Games. Dusty's wife Joy McKean penned several of his most popular songs.\n\nOther popular performers of Australian country music include: John Williamson (who wrote the iconic song \"True Blue\"), Lee Kernaghan, Kasey Chambers and Sara Storer. In the United States, Australian country music stars including Olivia Newton-John and Keith Urban have attained great success.\n\nCountry music has also been a particularly popular form of musical expression among the Australian Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples. Troy Cassar-Daley is among Australia's successful indigenous performers.\n\nThe Tamworth Country Music Festival is an annual country music festival held in Tamworth, New South Wales. It celebrates the culture and heritage of Australian country music. During the festival the Country Music Association of Australia holds the Country Music Awards of Australia ceremony awarding the Golden Guitar trophies.\n\nThe ceremonial dances of indigenous Australians which recount the stories of the Dreamtime, comprise theatrical aspects and have been performed since time immemorial during the 40–60,000 year Aboriginal occupation of Australia. European traditions came to Australia with the First Fleet in 1788, with the first production being performed in 1789 by convicts. Two centuries later, the extraordinary circumstances of the foundations of Australian theatre were recounted in \"Our Country's Good\" by Timberlake Wertenbaker: the participants were prisoners watched by sadistic guards and the leading lady was under threat of the death penalty.\n\nThe Theatre Royal, Hobart, opened in 1837 and it remains the oldest theatre in Australia. The Australian gold rushes beginning in the 1850s provided funds for the construction of grand theatres in the Victorian style. A theatre was built on the present site of Melbourne's Princess Theatre in 1854. The present building now hosts major international productions as well as live performance events such as the Melbourne International Comedy Festival.\n\nThe Melbourne Athenaeum was built during this period and later became Australia's first cinema, screening \"The Story of the Kelly Gang\", the world's first feature film in 1906. Mark Twain, Nellie Melba, Laurence Olivier and Barry Humphries have all performed on this historic stage. The Queen's Theatre, Adelaide opened with Shakespeare in 1841 and is today the oldest theatre on the mainland.\n\nAfter Federation in 1901, theatre productions evidenced the new sense of national identity. \"On Our Selection\" (1912) by Steele Rudd, told of the adventures of a pioneer farming family and became immensely popular. Sydney's grand Capitol Theatre opened in 1928 and after restoration remains one of the nation's finest auditoriums.\n\nIn 1955, \"Summer of the Seventeenth Doll\" by Ray Lawler portrayed resolutely Australian characters and went on to international acclaim. That same year, young Melbourne artist Barry Humphries performed as Edna Everage for the first time at Melbourne University's Union Theatre. Humphries left for London in his early 20s and enjoyed success on stage, including in Lionel Bart's musical, Oliver!. His satirical stage creations – notably Dame Edna and later Les Patterson –– became Australian cultural icons. Humphries also achieved success in the USA with tours on Broadway and television appearances and has been honoured in Australia and Britain.\n\nThe National Institute of Dramatic Art was created in Sydney in 1958. This institute has since produced a list of famous alumni including Cate Blanchett, Mel Gibson and Baz Luhrmann.\n\nConstruction of the Adelaide Festival Centre began in 1970 and South Australia's Sir Robert Helpmann became director of the Adelaide Festival of Arts. The new wave of Australian theatre debuted in the 1970s. The Belvoir St Theatre presented works by Nick Enright and David Williamson. In 1973, the Sydney Opera House, which had been based on a design by Jørn Utzon, was officially opened. Opera Australia made its home in the building and its reputation was enhanced by the presence of the diva Joan Sutherland.\n\nThe Sydney Theatre Company was founded 1978 becoming one of Australia's foremost theatre companies. The Bell Shakespeare Company was created in 1990. A period of success for Australian musical theatre came in the 1990s with the debut of musical biographies of Australian music singers Peter Allen (\"The Boy From Oz\" in 1998) and Johnny O'Keefe (\"Shout! The Legend of The Wild One\").\n\nIn \"The One Day of the Year\", Alan Seymour studied the paradoxical nature of the ANZAC Day commemoration by Australians of the defeat of the Battle of Gallipoli. \"Ngapartji Ngapartji\", by Scott Rankin and Trevor Jamieson, recounts the story of the effects on the Pitjantjatjara people of nuclear testing in the Western Desert during the Cold War. It is an example of the contemporary fusion of traditions of drama in Australia with Pitjantjatjara actors being supported by a multicultural cast of Greek, Afghan, Japanese and New Zealand heritage.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1364043", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1364043", "title": "Bookwriter", "text": "Bookwriter\n\nThe bookwriter is the member of a musical's writing team who creates the book—the musical's plot, character development, and dramatic structure. Essentially, the bookwriter is the playwright of the musical. He or she works very closely in collaboration with the lyricist and composer to create an integrated piece of drama.\n\nThere is a common misconception that the bookwriter merely writes the dialogue; though the book does include the musical's spoken text, it is much more than that, defining and organizing the dramatic action of the entire piece, including action that is musicalized by the songwriter(s). Even \"sung-through,\" \"operatic,\" or \"through-composed\" musicals, where there is little, if any, spoken text, require as much contribution from a bookwriter as do musicals with extensive dialogue scenes.\n\nThe bookwriter is often also the musical's lyricist, composer, or director.\n"}
{"id": "5270176", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5270176", "title": "Brussels Cross", "text": "Brussels Cross\n\nThe Brussels Cross or Drahmal Cross is an Anglo-Saxon cross-reliquary of the early 11th century, now in the treasury of the St. Michael and St. Gudula Cathedral, Brussels, that bears engraved images and an inscription in Old English. \n\nBadly damaged and with its once jewelled front missing, the Brussels Cross takes the form of a large piece of cross-shaped wood covered with a silver plate bearing medallions engraved with the evangelists' symbols at the end of the arms and an \"Agnus Dei\" at the center. Across the arms the artist has inscribed his name in large Latin letters: + \"Drahmal me worhte\" (‘Drahmal made me’). An inscription around the edges reads: + \"Rod is min nama; geo ic ricne Cyning bær byfigynde, blod bestemed\" (‘Rood is my name. Trembling once, I bore a powerful king, made wet with blood’). These lines bear a close relationship to ll. 44 and 48 in the Old English poem, 'The Dream of the Rood'. This is followed by a common form of dedication: \"þas rod het Æþmær wyrican and Aðelwold hys beroþo[r] Criste to lofe for Ælfrices saule hyra beroþor\" (‘Æthlmær and Athelwold, his brother, ordered this rood to be made so as to praise Christ for the soul of Ælfric, their brother’). The Anglo-Saxon inscription is contained on a silver strip which runs around the edges of the cross. It is written not in runes, but in Roman letters, in a curious mixture of Latin-style majuscules and minuscules. The letters 'NE' of \"ricne\", 'NG' of \"cyning\" and 'ME' of \"bestemed\" are written as ligatures. Although it has not proved possible to identify with any certainty the persons named in the inscription, the text is in late West-Saxon which would ascribe it to the late tenth century or perhaps later.\n\nThe Brussels Cross and its two-line inscription in Anglo-Saxon verse were first brought to public attention in modern times by H. Logeman in 1891. Traditionally reputed to contain the largest extant fragments of the True Cross, it has been preserved at the Cathedral of SS. Michel and Gudule since the middle of the seventeenth century. The cross is 46.5 by 28 cm. (18.3 by 11 inches) in size. The front was once covered by a jewelled gold plate, probably taken away by French soldiers under Dumouriez in 1793; the back is still covered with silver, with the symbols of the four evangelists at the ends of the four arms and the symbol of the \"Agnus Dei\" in the centre. The earlier Lothair Cross is a comparable work that is still intact. The name of the craftsman, Drahmal, is probably Norse and from the northern England, but nothing more can be deduced about him. Judging from the language of the inscription as well as from the epigraphy and the style of the images, the cross most likely dates from the beginning of the 11th century. The images are in a \"stolid\" version of the early \"Winchester style\".\n\nThe Brussels Cross was created in England, but the three brothers, Ælfric, Æthelmær and Æthelwold, cited in the prose part of the inscription, have never been positively identified. The language is a fairly regular late West-Saxon, with one Anglian form, \"bestemed\", and a few irregular spellings, such as \"byfigynde\" (with 'y' for 'e' in the ending) in the verse, \"wyrican\" and \"beroþor\" (both with an intrusive vowel) in the prose. The form \"bestemed\" (for West-Saxon \"bestiemed\", \"bestymed\") does not necessarily indicate a northern origin for the inscription; it is usually explained as a traditional spelling taken over from older poetic vocabulary.\n\nSome scholars have identified Ælfric, Æthelmær and Æthelwold with Africus, Agelmarus and Agelwardus of Worcester around the year 1007. Others have suggested that the Æthelmær is the well-known patron of Ælfric, who founded the abbey at Eynsham in 1005, but offer no identification of the other two names. It is possible, furthermore, that the holy relic which forms part of the present cross is the same as the \"lignum Domini\" ('Wood of the Lord') sent by Pope Marinus to King Alfred in 883 or 885. None of these possibilities is susceptible to proof. The Belgian scholar Simone D’Ardenne offers the most plausible analysis. She favors the identification of the relic with Alfred’s \"lignum Domini\" ('Wood of the Lord'), and she has studied all the available evidence to present a highly plausible account of its later history. According to her, the relic remained in the hands of the West-Saxon royal family until near the end of the tenth century, when it left the possession of the direct line. Its new owners had it enclosed in a reliquary (the present cross) and presented it to Westminster Abbey. It later found its way to the Netherlands, probably during the reign of the last Norman King of England, Stephen (1135–1154), when numbers of Flemish soldiers were in England.\n\n"}
{"id": "11866371", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11866371", "title": "CAPAB", "text": "CAPAB\n\nThe Cape Performing Arts Board (CAPAB) was a South African theatre organisation based in Cape Town, serving the former Cape Province. It was one of the four state funded performing arts councils in the four former provinces of South Africa instituted in 1963.\n\nIn 1961 the National Theatre Organisation was disbanded and replaced by four provincial performing arts councils. In Cape Town the Cape Performing Arts Board (CAPAB) was instituted in 1962 with the aim to promote the performing arts in the Cape Province and South Arica. The arts councils received sufficient government subsidies to fund various art forms as well as the operational requirements of the theatre facilities. Staff could be taken into permanent employment.\n\nSince 1994 government policy changed dramatically. All performing arts boards were transformed to managers of playhouses and the various arts companies had to become independent. The CAPAB Drama Department staged its last production in May 1997 with a final performance of David Mowat's \"The Guise\", a play which has as its theme the survival of the theatre.\n\nThe new organisation, Artscape, was launched on 27 March 1999 to replace CAPAB and the Nico Malan Theatre Complex was renamed the Artscape Theatre Centre.\n\nThe Nico Malan Theatre Centre was opened on 19 May 1971, to be programmed and managed by Cape Performing Arts Board as a production house with four arts companies – orchestra, opera, ballet and drama. These companies had full-time artistes, technical and administrative staff.\n\nIn line with the new South African the political dispensation and the concurrent changes, the complex was renamed the Artscape Theatre Centre in March 2001.\n\nCAPE PERFORMING ARTS BOARD (CAPAB) (Afrikaans: Kaaplandse Raad vir die Uitvoerende Kunste – KRUIK). Founded in 1963, after the dissolving of the National Theatre Organisation, with Danie van Eeden*?? as its first director. (He was followed consecutively by Gé Korsten, George Loopuyt and Michael Maas.) Registered as a society not for gain, it was headed by a policy-making council chaired by the provincial administrator and representative of all interested parties, including the province, the city municipality of Cape Town, the department of national education, the business sector as well as representatives of the various performing art forms. Their function was to provide artists and artisans with a secure career option, to develop and promote drama, ballet, music and opera by offering audiences in the province with regular professional productions. Its first productions were Becket (Anouilh) and Hedda Gabler (Ibsen, in Afrikaans) in the Hofmeyr Theatre in November 1963. Their first opera (The Bartered Bride by Smetana) was done on 8 February 1965 in the Alhambra Theatre. Their first indigenous in play Afrikaans was *** in 196*, while the first indigenous English play was The Year of the Locust by James Ambrose Brown (1966). Initially renting theatres in the various cities, CAPAB purchased the Opera House in Port Elizabeth in 1967, and refurbished it for use as a base for their work in the Eastern Cape. In 1971 they opened the Nico Malan Theatre Complex in Cape Town, The Opera House with a performance of the ballet Sylvia, and the Theatre with a controversial [Presidential] opening production, \"KONING LEAR\" [Uys Krige] - directed by Dieter Reible, [\"Christine\" - Barto Smit was also scheduled, but banned before rehearsals commenced due to subject matter]. Feydeau's \"Hond Se Gedagte\" [A Flea in her Ear'] also directed by Dieter Reible followed 'Lear'.\n\n"}
{"id": "2221466", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2221466", "title": "Connie Britton", "text": "Connie Britton\n\nConstance Elaine Britton (née Womack; born March 6, 1967) is an American actress, singer, and producer. Britton made her feature film debut in the independent comedy-drama film \"The Brothers McMullen\" (1995), and the following year, she was cast as Nikki Faber on the ABC sitcom \"Spin City.\" She later starred in the short-lived sitcoms \"The Fighting Fitzgeralds\" (2001) and \"Lost at Home\" (2003), and appeared in several films, most notably the sports drama film \"Friday Night Lights\" (2004) and the thriller film \"The Last Winter\" (2006).\n\nBritton starred as Tami Taylor on the NBC/DirecTV drama series \"Friday Night Lights\" from 2006 to 2011. For this role, she received positive reviews from critics and was nominated for two Emmy Awards for Outstanding Lead Actress in a Drama Series. In 2011, she starred as Vivien Harmon in the first season of FX horror-drama series \"American Horror Story\", for which she was nominated for the Emmy Award for Outstanding Lead Actress in a Miniseries or a Movie. She reprised her role for the eighth season of the show, entitled \"\", in 2018. \nBritton starred as country singer Rayna Jaymes in the ABC/CMT musical drama series \"Nashville\" from 2012 to 2018, for which she was nominated for an Emmy Award for Outstanding Lead Actress in a Drama Series and a Golden Globe Award for Best Actress – Television Series Drama in 2012. In 2014, Britton was named UNDP Goodwill Ambassador. Britton next featured in the comedy-drama film \"This Is Where I Leave You\" (2014), the drama film \"Me and Earl and the Dying Girl\" (2015), the action comedy \"American Ultra\" (2015), and period drama \"Professor Marston and the Wonder Women\" (2017). In 2016, Britton had a recurring role as socialite Faye Resnick in the of FX true crime anthology series \"American Crime Story\". In 2017, she had a recurring role as Ally in the Showtime sitcom \"SMILF\". In 2018, she starred as Abby Clark in the first season of the Fox procedural drama \"9-1-1\".\n\nBritton was born Constance Elaine Womack in Boston, Massachusetts, to Linda Jane (née Cochran) and Edgar Allen Womack, Jr., who was a physicist and an energy company executive. She spent her early years in Rockville, Maryland.\n\nWhen she was seven years old, she moved with her parents and her fraternal twin sister, Cynthia, to Lynchburg, Virginia, where she attended E.C. Glass High School and performed in plays in the E. C. Glass High School Theater. Her photo is displayed in the E. C. Glass Alumni Theater. She majored in Asian studies with a concentration in Chinese at Dartmouth College, and studied at the Beijing Normal University in Beijing during her freshman summer with Kirsten Gillibrand, now a U.S. Senator from New York. After graduating in 1989, she moved to New York City, where she spent two years at the Neighborhood Playhouse School of the Theatre studying with Sanford Meisner.\n\nWhile studying at the Neighborhood Playhouse, Britton (then Womack) made her New York theatrical debut in Caroline Kava's \"The Early Girl\" at The Courtyard Playhouse. Britton played seasoned prostitute Laurel opposite Cooper Lawrence, who played Joan. Britton's performance, while well received, nearly got her ousted from the Neighborhood Playhouse program, which prohibited students from taking professional employment during their course of study. After graduating, Britton spent two more years working in off-Broadway theatre productions. In 1995, Britton made her feature film debut in Edward Burns' comedy-drama \"The Brothers McMullen\". She moved to Los Angeles after the film's success.\n\nAfter \"The Brothers McMullen\", Britton was cast as Heather in a recurring role in the ABC sitcom \"Ellen\", and starred as Cammie Barbash in the unsold Fox pilot \"Pins and Needles\". In 1996, she began co-starring as Nikki Faber in the ABC sitcom \"Spin City\" opposite Michael J. Fox. Her character was written out of the show when Charlie Sheen replaced Fox. She also appeared in the romantic comedy-drama \"No Looking Back\" (1998) and the mystery comedy-drama \"Looking for Kitty\" (2004), both directed by Edward Burns. In 2001, she co-starred opposite Chris Eigeman and Jamie Harris in the romantic comedy \"The Next Big Thing\". She later co-starred in the independent films \"The Life Coach\", \"Special Ed\", \"The Lather Effect\" and \"The Last Winter\".\n\nAfter leaving \"Spin City\", Britton had a recurring role as Maggie Kimble Hume in the short-lived CBS crime drama \"The Fugitive\". In 2001, she played Gertrude Temple, Shirley Temple's bad mother in the ABC television film \"Child Star: The Shirley Temple Story\", based on Temple's 1988 autobiography. In the same year, she starred as Sophie Fitzgerald in the short-lived NBC sitcom \"The Fighting Fitzgeralds\". In 2001, Britton also had a recurring role in the NBC political drama \"The West Wing\" in the third season, appearing in the two-part premiere titled \"Manchester\" and the sixth episode titled \"Gone Quiet\" as Connie Tate, a member of Bruno Gianelli's team. In 2002, she returned to ABC and starred as Rachel Davis in the short-lived sitcom \"Lost at Home\". In 2006, she had a recurring role in the Fox espionage thriller \"24\" in the fifth season as Diane Huxley, a landlady and a brief girlfriend of Jack Bauer (Kiefer Sutherland).\n\nBritton co-starred opposite Kyle Chandler in the NBC/DirecTV drama series \"Friday Night Lights\" as Tami Taylor, the wife of a head football coach Eric Taylor (Chandler), who becomes a high school guidance counselor. The show ran for five seasons from October 3, 2006 to February 9, 2011. During that time, Britton developed a devoted following for her performance – described by \"The New York Times\" as \"something of an icon, a 40-something sex symbol and role model.\" She was first cast opposite Billy Bob Thornton in the film version of the series, \"Friday Night Lights\" (2004). For her role in the show, she was nominated for Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Lead Actress in a Drama Series in 2010 and 2011, for TCA Award for Individual Achievement in Drama in 2007 and 2008, and was awarded Satellite Award for Best Actress – Television Series Drama in 2010.\n\nIn 2009, Britton co-starred opposite Carla Gugino and her \"Friday Night Lights\" co-star Adrianne Palicki in the comedy \"Women in Trouble\", and co-starred opposite Jackie Earle Haley, Kyle Gallner and Rooney Mara in the 2010 remake of \"A Nightmare on Elm Street\" as Dr. Gwendoline \"Gwen\" Holbrook. In 2011, she co-starred opposite Pamela Adlon in the romantic comedy \"Conception\". She appeared on the WBEZ radio reading show \"This American Life\"'s 429th episode, \"Will They Know Me at Home?\", in which she performed monologues from David Finkel's nonfiction book \"The Good Soldiers\".\n\nIn 2011, Britton starred in the first season in the FX horror drama \"American Horror Story\". She played Vivien Harmon, who relocates with her family to California after a series of tragic marital and family issues. Unfortunately for The Harmons, the new house they purchase quickly reveals itself to be haunted. For this role she was nominated for Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Lead Actress in a Miniseries or a Movie in 2012. Britton had stated when she wrapped \"American Horror Story\" she would be taking a couple of months off to be with her new adopted son, but that she would then begin to re-focus on developing her FX drama collaboration with David O. Russell, but the project went into \"development hell\".\nOn March 6, 2012, Britton signed on to star in and produce the ABC/CMT musical drama series, \"Nashville\" created by Academy Award winner Callie Khouri. The series ran on ABC and CMT for six seasons from October 10, 2012 to July 26, 2018. She played Rayna Jaymes, a 40-year-old renowned country singer whose stardom is beginning to fade. Britton's performance received critical praise, and she was nominated for a fourth time for a Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Lead Actress in a Drama Series and a Golden Globe Award for Best Actress – Television Series Drama for the first time for this role. Britton, for her part, said that the most nerve-wracking part of her role, at least in the beginning, was the singing the role requires of her. The show was cancelled in May 2016 by ABC. However, in June 2016, CMT picked up the series for a fifth season. In February 2017, Britton left \"Nashville\" during the fifth season, but returned for the series finale in July 2018 as a guest star.\n\nIn 2012, Britton co-starred opposite Edward Burns in the comedy-drama \"The Fitzgerald Family Christmas\". The film was met with positive reviews from critics. That same year, she had co-starred in the comedy-drama \"Seeking a Friend for the End of the World\" opposite Steve Carell and Keira Knightley.\n\nIn 2013, Britton co-starred opposite Aubrey Plaza in the comedy \"The To Do List\", where she played the mother of Plaza's character. Britton returned to Austin, Texas, where \"Friday Night Lights\" was filmed, to co-star opposite Harry Connick Jr. and fellow actors and musicians Willie Nelson, Lyle Lovett and Kris Kristofferson in the Christmas family drama \"Angels Sing\". In 2014, Britton co-starred opposite Adam Driver as a cougar therapist in the comedy-drama \"This Is Where I Leave You\", based on Jonathan Tropper's 2009 best-selling novel.\n\nIn 2015, she co-starred opposite Thomas Mann, RJ Cyler and Olivia Cooke in the comedy-drama \"Me and Earl and the Dying Girl\", directed by Alfonso Gomez-Rejon, and based on Jesse Andrews'‍ 2012 novel of the same name, a wry coming-of-age story about Greg (Mann), a teenage oddball forced to befriend Rachel (Cooke), a classmate with leukemia. She played Greg's mother. That same year, she co-starred in the action comedy \"American Ultra\" opposite Jesse Eisenberg and Kristen Stewart; Sharon Stone had originally been cast in her part.\n\nAlso in 2015, Britton reunited with \"American Horror Story\" creator Ryan Murphy in his miniseries \"American Crime Story: The People v. O.J. Simpson\" as Faye Resnick.\n\nIn 2018, Britton starred as emergency operator Abby Clark in the first season of the Fox procedural drama \"9-1-1\", her third collaboration with Ryan Murphy. The same year, she returned to \"American Horror Story\" for the eighth season, \"\". She is set to reprise her role as .\n\nBritton uses her married name as her stage name. She met investment banker John Britton at Alpha Delta House at Dartmouth College. They moved to Manhattan together in 1989, married on October 5, 1991 and divorced in 1995.\n\nIn 1993, Britton joined the New York Junior League and was a member of the 1993 provisional class of volunteers where she listed her occupation as \"Actress\".\n\nIn November 2011, Britton adopted a son, Eyob \"Yoby\" Britton, from Ethiopia.\n\nWhile at Dartmouth in the late 1980s, Britton studied Chinese, including living for a summer in Beijing with future US Senator Kirsten Gillibrand. In a 2012 interview on NPR she said of the experience: \"I always wanted to be an actor. But when I went to college, I had to fulfill a language requirement and so I thought it would be really cool to do it speaking Chinese. My Chinese these days is real, real shaky. Let's put it this way: These days, my singing is better than my Chinese.\"\n\nBritton moved to Nashville, Tennessee in 2012 when she signed to star in the ABC/CMT musical drama \"Nashville\".\n\nOn April 2, 2014, Britton became the 10th Goodwill Ambassador of the United Nations Development Programme, the anti-poverty agency of the UN. She joins celebrities such as Antonio Banderas, Maria Sharapova, Zinedine Zidane and Ronaldo in this role. She will focus her advocacy efforts on eradicating extreme poverty, fighting exclusion and empowering women.\n\nIn June 2016, the Human Rights Campaign released a video in tribute to the victims of the 2016 Orlando gay nightclub shooting; in the video, Britton and others told the stories of the people killed there.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32088502", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32088502", "title": "Coxeter notation", "text": "Coxeter notation\n\nIn geometry, Coxeter notation (also Coxeter symbol) is a system of classifying symmetry groups, describing the angles between fundamental reflections of a Coxeter group in a bracketed notation expressing the structure of a Coxeter-Dynkin diagram, with modifiers to indicate certain subgroups. The notation is named after H. S. M. Coxeter, and has been more comprehensively defined by Norman Johnson.\n\nFor Coxeter groups, defined by pure reflections, there is a direct correspondence between the bracket notation and Coxeter-Dynkin diagram. The numbers in the bracket notation represent the mirror reflection orders in the branches of the Coxeter diagram. It uses the same simplification, suppressing 2s between orthogonal mirrors.\n\nThe Coxeter notation is simplified with exponents to represent the number of branches in a row for linear diagram. So the \"A\" group is represented by [3], to imply \"n\" nodes connected by \"n-1\" order-3 branches. Example \"A\" = [3,3] = [3] or [3] represents diagrams or .\n\nCoxeter initially represented bifurcating diagrams with vertical positioning of numbers, but later abbreviated with an exponent notation, like [...,3] or [3], starting with [3] or [3,3] = or as D. Coxeter allowed for zeros as special cases to fit the \"A\" family, like \"A\" = [3,3,3,3] = [3] = [3] = [3] = [3], like = = .\n\nCoxeter groups formed by cyclic diagrams are represented by parenthesese inside of brackets, like [(p,q,r)] = for the triangle group (p q r). If the branch orders are equal, they can be grouped as an exponent as the length the cycle in brackets, like [(3,3,3,3)] = [3], representing Coxeter diagram or . can be represented as [3,(3,3,3)] or [3,3].\n\nMore complicated looping diagrams can also be expressed with care. The paracompact Coxeter group can be represented by Coxeter notation [(3,3,(3),3,3)], with nested/overlapping parentheses showing two adjacent [(3,3,3)] loops, and is also represented more compactly as [3], representing the rhombic symmetry of the Coxeter diagram. The paracompact complete graph diagram or , is represented as [3] with the superscript [3,3] as the symmetry of its regular tetrahedron coxeter diagram.\n\nThe Coxeter diagram usually leaves order-2 branches undrawn, but the bracket notation includes an explicit 2 to connect the subgraphs. So the Coxeter diagram = \"A\"×\"A\" = 2\"A\" can be represented by [3]×[3] = [3] = [3,2,3]. Sometimes explicit 2-branches may be included either with a 2 label, or with a line with a gap: or , as an identical presentation as [3,2,3].\n\nFor the affine and hyperbolic groups, the subscript is one less than the number of nodes in each case, since each of these groups was obtained by adding a node to a finite group's diagram.\n\nCoxeter's notation represents rotational/translational symmetry by adding a superscript operator outside the brackets, [X] which cuts the order of the group [X] in half, thus a index 2 subgroup. This operator implies an even number of operators must be applied, replacing reflections with rotations (or translations). When applied to a Coxeter group, this is called a direct subgroup because what remains are only direct isometries without reflective symmetry.\n\nThe operators can also be applied inside of the brackets, like [X,Y] or [X,(Y,Z)], and creates \"semidirect\" subgroups that may include both reflective and nonreflective generators. Semidirect subgroups can only apply to Coxeter group subgroups that have even order branches adjacent to it. Elements by parentheses inside of a Coxeter group can be give a superscript operator, having the effect of dividing adjacent ordered branches into half order, thus is usually only applied with even numbers. For example, [4,3] and [4,(3,3)] (). \n\nIf applied with adjacent odd branch, it doesn't create a subgroup of index 2, but instead creates overlapping fundamental domains, like [5,1] = [5/2], which can define doubly wrapped polygons like a pentagram, {5/2}, and [5,3] relates to Schwarz triangle [5/2,3,3], density 2.\n\nGroups without neighboring elements can be seen in ringed nodes Coxeter-Dynkin diagram for uniform polytopes and honeycomb are related to \"hole\" nodes around the elements, empty circles with the alternated nodes removed. So the snub cube, has symmetry [4,3] (), and the snub tetrahedron, has symmetry [4,3] (), and a demicube, h{4,3} = {3,3} ( or = ) has symmetry [1,4,3] = [3,3] ( or = = ).\n\nNote: Pyritohedral symmetry can be written as , separating the graph with gaps for clarity, with the generators {0,1,2} from the Coxeter group , producing pyritohedral generators {0,12}, a reflection and 3-fold rotation. And chiral tetrahedral symmetry can be written as or , [1,4,3] = [3,3], with generators {12,0120}.\n\nJohnson extends the operator to work with a placeholder 1 nodes, which removes mirrors, doubling the size of the fundamental domain and cuts the group order in half. In general this operation only applies to individual mirrors bounded by even-order branches. The 1 represents a mirror so [2p] can be seen as [2p,1], [1,2p], or [1,2p,1], like diagram or , with 2 mirrors related by an order-2p dihedral angle. The effect of a mirror removal is to duplicate connecting nodes, which can be seen in the Coxeter diagrams: = , or in bracket notation:[1,2p, 1] = [1,p,1] = [p].\n\nEach of these mirrors can be removed so h[2p] = [1,2p,1] = [1,2p,1] = [p], a reflective subgroup index 2. This can be shown in a Coxeter diagram by adding a symbol above the node: = = .\n\nIf both mirrors are removed, a quarter subgroup is generated, with the branch order becoming a gyration point of half the order: \n\nFor example, (with p=2): [4,1] = [1,4] = [2] = [ ]×[ ], order 4. [1,4,1] = [2], order 2.\n\nThe opposite to halving is doubling which adds a mirror, bisecting a fundamental domain, and doubling the group order.\n\nHalving operations apply for higher rank groups, like tetrahedral symmetry is a half group of octahedral group: h[4,3] = [1,4,3] = [3,3], removing half the mirrors at the 4-branch. The effect of a mirror removal is to duplicate all connecting nodes, which can be seen in the Coxeter diagrams: = , h[2p,3] = [1,2p,3] = [(p,3,3)].\n\nIf nodes are indexed, half subgroups can be labeled with new mirrors as composites. Like , generators {0,1} has subgroup = , generators {1,010}, where mirror 0 is removed, and replaced by a copy of mirror 1 reflected across mirror 0. Also given , generators {0,1,2}, it has half group = , generators {1,2,010}.\n\nDoubling by adding a mirror also applies in reversing the halving operation: = [4,3], or more generally = [2p,q].\n\nJohnson also added an asterisk or star * operator for \"radical\" subgroups, that acts similar to the operator, but removes rotational symmetry. The index of the radical subgroup is the order of the removed element. For example, [4,3*] ≅ [2,2]. The removed [3] subgroup is order 6 so [2,2] is an index 6 subgroup of [4,3].\n\nThe radical subgroups represent the inverse operation to an extended symmetry operation. For example, [4,3*] ≅ [2,2], and in reverse [2,2] can be extended as [3[2,2]] ≅ [4,3]. The subgroups can be expressed as a Coxeter diagram: or ≅ . The removed node (mirror) causes adjacent mirror virtual mirrors to become real mirrors.\n\nIf [4,3] has generators {0,1,2}, [4,3], index 2, has generators {0,12}; [1,4,3] ≅ [3,3], index 2 has generators {010,1,2}; while radical subgroup [4,3*] ≅ [2,2], index 6, has generators {01210, 2, (012)}; and finally [1,4,3*], index 12 has generators {0(12)0, (012)01}.\n\nA trionic subgroup is an index 3 subgroups. There are many\nJohnson defines a \"trionic subgroup\" with operator ⅄, index 3. For rank 2 Coxeter groups, [3], the trionic subgroup, [3] is [ ], a single mirror. And for [3\"p\"], the trionic subgroup is [3\"p\"] ≅ [\"p\"]. Given , with generators {0,1}, has 3 trionic subgroups. They can be differentiated by putting the ⅄ symbol next to the mirror generator to be removed, or on a branch for both: [3\"p\",1] = = , = , and [3\"p\"] = = with generators {0,10101}, {01010,1}, or {101,010}.\n\nTrionic subgroups of tetrahedral symmetry: [3,3] ≅ [2,4], relating the symmetry of the regular tetrahedron and tetragonal disphenoid.\n\nFor rank 3 Coxeter groups, [\"p\",3], there is a trionic subgroup [\"p\",3] ≅ [\"p\"/2,\"p\"], or = . For example the finite group [4,3] ≅ [2,4], and Euclidean group [6,3] ≅ [3,6], and hyperbolic group [8,3] ≅ [4,8]. \n\nAn odd-order adjacent branch, \"p\", will not lower the group order, but create overlapping fundamental domains. The group order stays the same, while the density increases. For example the icosahedral symmetry, [5,3], of the regular polyhedra icosahedron becomes [5/2,5], the symmetry of 2 regular star polyhedra. It also relates the hyperbolic tilings {p,3}, and star hyperbolic tilings {p/2,p} \n\nFor rank 4, [\"q\",2\"p\",3] = [2\"p\",((p,q,q))], = . \n\nFor example [3,4,3] = [4,3,3], or = , generators {0,1,2,3} in [3,4,3] with the trionic subgroup [4,3,3] generators {0,1,2,32123}. For hyperbolic groups, [3,6,3] = [6,3], and [4,4,3] = [4,4,4].\nJohnson identified two specific trionic subgroups of [3,3], first an index 3 subgroup [3,3] ≅ [2,4], with [3,3] ( = = ) generators {0,1,2}. It can also be written as [(3,3,2)] () as a reminder of its generators {02,1}. This symmetry reduction is the relationship between the regular tetrahedron and the tetragonal disphenoid, represent a stretching of a tetrahedron perpendicular to two opposite edges.\n\nSecondly he identifies a related index 6 subgroup [3,3] or [(3,3,2)] (), index 3 from [3,3] ≅ [2,2], with generators {02,1021}, from [3,3] and its generators {0,1,2}.\n\nThese subgroups also apply within larger Coxeter groups with [3,3] subgroup with neighboring branches all even order.\nFor example, [(3,3),4], [(3,3),4], and [(3,3),4] are subgroups of [3,3,4], index 2, 3 and 6 respectively. The generators of [(3,3),4] ≅ ≅ [8,2,8], order 128, are {02,1,3} from [3,3,4] generators {0,1,2,3}. And [(3,3),4] ≅ , order 64, has generators {02,1021,3}. As well, [3,4,3] ≅ [(3,3),4].\n\nAlso related [3] = [3,3,4,1] has trionic subgroups: [3] = [(3,3),4,1], order 64, and 1=[3] = [(3,3),4,1] ≅ 4,2,4, order 32.\n\nA central inversion, order 2, is operationally differently by dimension. The group [ ] = [2] represents \"n\" orthogonal mirrors in n-dimensional space, or an n-flat subspace of a higher dimensional space. The mirrors of the group [2] are numbered . The order of the mirrors doesn't matter in the case of an inversion. The matrix of a central inversion is , the Identity matrix with negative one on the diagonal.\n\nFrom that basis, the central inversion has a generator as the product of all the orthogonal mirrors. In Coxeter notation this inversion group is expressed by adding an alternation to each 2 branch. The alternation symmetry is marked on Coxeter diagram nodes as open nodes.\n\nA Coxeter-Dynkin diagram can be marked up with explicit 2 branches defining a linear sequence of mirrors, open-nodes, and shared double-open nodes to show the chaining of the reflection generators.\n\nFor example, [2,2] and [2,2] are subgroups index 2 of [2,2], , and are represented as (or ) and (or ) with generators {01,2} and {0,12} respectively. Their common subgroup index 4 is [2,2], and is represented by (or ), with the double-open marking a shared node in the two alternations, and a single rotoreflection generator {012}.\n\nRotations and rotary reflections are constructed by a single single-generator product of all the reflections of a prismatic group, [2\"p\"]×[2\"q\"]×... where gcd(\"p\",\"q\"...)=1, they are isomorphic to the abstract cyclic group Z, of order \"n\"=2\"pq\".\n\nThe 4-dimensional double rotations, [2\"p\",2,2\"q\"] (with gcd(\"p\",\"q\")=1), which include a central group, and are expressed by Conway as ±[C×C], order 2\"pq\". From Coxeter diagram , generators {0,1,2,3}, the single generator of [2\"p\",2,2\"q\"], is {0123}. The half group, [2\"p\",2,2\"q\"], or cyclc graph, [(2\"p\",2,2\"q\",2)], expressed by Conway is [C×C], order \"pq\", with generator {01230123}.\n\nIf there is a common factor \"f\", the double rotation can be written as [2\"pf\",2,2\"qf\"] (with gcd(\"p\",\"q\")=1), generator {0123}, order 2\"pqf\". For example, \"p\"=\"q\"=1, \"f\"=2, [4,2,4] is order 4. And [2\"pf\",2,2\"qf\"], generator {01230123}, is order \"pqf\". For example [4,2,4] is order 2, a central inversion.\nSimple groups with only odd-order branch elements have only a single rotational/translational subgroup of order 2, which is also the commutator subgroup, examples [3,3], [3,5], [3,3,3], [3,3,5]. For other Coxeter groups with even-order branches, the commutator subgroup has index 2, where c is the number of disconnected subgraphs when all the even-order branches are removed. For example, [4,4] has three independent nodes in the Coxeter diagram when the 4s are removed, so its commutator subgroup is index 2, and can have different representations, all with three operators: [4,4], [1,4,1,4,1], [1,4,4,1], or [(4,4,2)]. A general notation can be used with +\"c\" as a group exponent, like [4,4].\n\nDihedral symmetry groups with even-orders have a number of subgroups. This example shows two generator mirrors of [4] in red and green, and looks at all subgroups by halfing, rank-reduction, and their direct subgroups. The group [4], has two mirror generators 0, and 1. Each generate two virtual mirrors 101 and 010 by reflection across the other.\nThe [4,4] group has 15 small index subgroups. This table shows them all, with a yellow fundamental domain for pure reflective groups, and alternating white and blue domains which are paired up to make rotational domains. Cyan, red, and green mirror lines correspond to the same colored nodes in the Coxeter diagram. Subgroup generators can be expressed as products of the original 3 mirrors of the fundamental domain, {0,1,2}, corresponding to the 3 nodes of the Coxeter diagram, . A product of two intersecting reflection lines makes a rotation, like {012}, {12}, or {02}. Removing a mirror causes two copies of neighboring mirrors, across the removed mirror, like {010}, and {212}. Two rotations in series cut the rotation order in half, like {0101} or {(01)}, {1212} or {(02)}. A product of all three mirrors creates a transreflection, like {012} or {120}.\n\nThe same set of 15 small subgroups exists on all triangle groups with even order elements, like [6,4] in the hyperbolic plane:\n\nCoxeter's notation includes double square bracket notation, to express automorphic symmetry within a Coxeter diagram. Johnson added alternative of angled-bracket <[X]> or [X] option as equivalent to square brackets for doubling to distinguish diagram symmetry through the nodes versus through the branches. Johnson also added a prefix symmetry modifier [Y[X]], where Y can either represent symmetry of the Coxeter diagram of [X], or symmetry of the fundamental domain of [X].\n\nFor example, in 3D these equivalent rectangle and rhombic geometry diagrams of formula_1: and , the first doubled with square brackets, or twice doubled as [2[3]], with [2], order 4 higher symmetry. To differentiate the second, angled brackets are used for doubling, [3] and twice doubled as 2[3], also with a different [2], order 4 symmetry. Finally a full symmetry where all 4 nodes are equivalent can be represented by [4[3]], with the order 8, [4] symmetry of the square. But by considering the tetragonal disphenoid fundamental domain the [4] extended symmetry of the square graph can be marked more explicitly as [(2,4)[3]] or [2,4[3]].\n\nFurther symmetry exists in the cyclic formula_2 and branching formula_3, formula_4, and formula_5 diagrams. formula_2 has order 2\"n\" symmetry of a regular \"n\"-gon, {\"n\"}, and is represented by [\"n\"[3]]. formula_3 and formula_4 are represented by [3[3]] = [3,4,3] and [3[3]] respectively while formula_5 by [(3,3)[3]] = [3,3,4,3], with the diagram containing the order 24 symmetry of the regular tetrahedron, {3,3}. The paracompact hyperbolic group formula_10 = [3], , contains the symmetry of a 5-cell, {3,3,3}, and thus is represented by [(3,3,3)[3]] = [3,4,3,3,3].\n\nAn asterisk * superscript is effectively an inverse operation, creating \"radical subgroups\" removing connected of odd-ordered mirrors.\n\nExamples:\nLooking at generators, the double symmetry is seen as adding a new operator that maps symmetric positions in the Coxeter diagram, making some original generators redundant. For 3D space groups, and 4D point groups, Coxeter defines an index two subgroup of , , which he defines as the product of the original generators of [X] by the doubling generator. This looks similar to , which is the chiral subgroup of . So for example the 3D space groups (I432, 211) and (Pmn, \n223) are distinct subgroups of (Imm, 229).\n\nA Coxeter group, represented by Coxeter diagram , is given Coxeter notation [p,q] for the branch orders. Each node in the Coxeter diagram represents a mirror, by convention called ρ (and matrix R). The \"generators\" of this group [p,q] are reflections: ρ, ρ, and ρ. Rotational subsymmetry is given as products of reflections: By convention, σ (and matrix S) = ρρ represents a rotation of angle π/p, and σ = ρρ is a rotation of angle π/q, and σ = ρρ represents a rotation of angle π/2.\n\n[p,q], , is an index 2 subgroup represented by two rotation generators, each a products of two reflections: σ, σ, and representing rotations of π/\"p\", and π/\"q\" angles respectively.\n\nWith one even branch, [\"p\",2\"q\"], or , is another subgroup of index 2, represented by rotation generator σ, and reflectional ρ.\n\nWith even branches, [2\"p\",2\"q\"], , is a subgroup of index 4 with two generators, constructed as a product of all three reflection matrices: By convention as: ψ and ψ, which are rotary reflections, representing a reflection and rotation or reflection.\n\nIn the case of affine Coxeter groups like , or , one mirror, usually the last, is translated off the origin. A translation generator τ (and matrix T) is constructed as the product of two (or an even number of) reflections, including the affine reflection. A transreflection (reflection plus a translation) can be the product of an odd number of reflections φ (and matrix V), like the index 4 subgroup : [4,4] = .\n\nAnother composite generator, by convention as ζ (and matrix Z), represents the inversion, mapping a point to its inverse. For [4,3] and [5,3], ζ = (ρρρ), where \"h\" is 6 and 10 respectively, the Coxeter number for each family. For 3D Coxeter group [p,q] (), this subgroup is a rotary reflection [2,h].\n\nCoxeter groups are categorized by their rank, being the number of nodes in its Coxeter-Dynkin diagram. The structure of the groups are also given with their abstract group types: In this article, the abstract dihedral groups are represented as \"Dih\", and cyclic groups are represented by \"Z\", with \"Dih\"=\"Z\".\n\nExample, in 2D, the Coxeter group [p] () is represented by two reflection matrices R and R, The cyclic symmetry [p] () is represented by rotation generator of matrix S.\nThe finite rank 3 Coxeter groups are [1,\"p\"], [2,\"p\"], [3,3], [3,4], and [3,5].\n\nTo reflect a point through a plane formula_11 (which goes through the origin), one can use formula_12, where formula_13 is the 3x3 identity matrix and formula_14 is the three-dimensional unit vector for the vector normal of the plane. If the L2 norm of formula_15 and formula_16 is unity, the transformation matrix can be expressed as:\n\nThe reducible 3-dimensional finite reflective group is dihedral symmetry, [\"p\",2], order 4\"p\", . The reflection generators are matrices R, R, R. R=R=R=(R×R)=(R×R)=(R×R)=Identity. [\"p\",2] () is generated by 2 of 3 rotations: S, S, and S. An order \"p\" rotoreflection is generated by V, the product of all 3 reflections.\n\nThe simplest irreducible 3-dimensional finite reflective group is tetrahedral symmetry, [3,3], order 24, . The reflection generators, from a D=A construction, are matrices R, R, R. R=R=R=(R×R)=(R×R)=(R×R)=Identity. [3,3] () is generated by 2 of 3 rotations: S, S, and S. A trionic subgroup, isomorphic to [2,4], order 8, is generated by S and R. An order 4 rotoreflection is generated by V, the product of all 3 reflections.\n\nAnother irreducible 3-dimensional finite reflective group is octahedral symmetry, [4,3], order 48, . The reflection generators matrices are R, R, R. R=R=R=(R×R)=(R×R)=(R×R)=Identity. Chiral octahedral symmetry, [4,3], () is generated by 2 of 3 rotations: S, S, and S. Pyritohedral symmetry [4,3], () is generated by reflection R and rotation S. A 6-fold rotoreflection is generated by V, the product of all 3 reflections.\n\nA final irreducible 3-dimensional finite reflective group is icosahedral symmetry, [5,3], order 120, . The reflection generators matrices are R, R, R. R=R=R=(R×R)=(R×R)=(R×R)=Identity. [5,3] () is generated by 2 of 3 rotations: S, S, and S. A 10-fold rotoreflection is generated by V, the product of all 3 reflections.\n\nA simple example affine group is [4,4] () (p4m), can be given by three reflection matrices, constructed as a reflection across the x axis (y=0), a diagonal (x=y), and the affine reflection across the line (x=1). [4,4] () (p4) is generated by S S, and S. [4,4] () (pgg) is generated by 2-fold rotation S and transreflection V. [4,4] () (p4g) is generated by S and R. The group [(4,4,2)] () (cmm), is generated by 2-fold rotation S and reflection R.\nA irreducible 4-dimensional finite reflective group is hyperoctahedral group (or hexadecachoric group (for 16-cell), B=[4,3,3], order 384, . The reflection generators matrices are R, R, R, R. R=R=R=R=(R×R)=(R×R)=(R×R)=(R×R)=(R×R)=(R×R)=Identity. \n\nChiral hyperoctahedral symmetry, [4,3,3], () is generated by 3 of 6 rotations: S, S, S, S, S, and S. Hyperpyritohedral symmetry [4,(3,3)], () is generated by reflection R and rotations S and S. An 8-fold double rotation is generated by W, the product of all 4 reflections.\n\nA irreducible 4-dimensional finite reflective group is Icositetrachoric group (for 24-cell), F=[3,4,3], order 1152, . The reflection generators matrices are R, R, R, R. R=R=R=R=(R×R)=(R×R)=(R×R)=(R×R)=(R×R)=(R×R)=Identity. \n\nChiral icositetrachoric symmetry, [3,4,3], () is generated by 3 of 6 rotations: S, S, S, S, S, and S. Ionic diminished [3,4,3] group, () is generated by reflection R and rotations S and S. An 12-fold double rotation is generated by W, the product of all 4 reflections.\n\nThe hyper-icosahedral symmetry, [5,3,3], order 14400, . The reflection generators matrices are R, R, R, R. R=R=R=R=(R×R)=(R×R)=(R×R)=(R×R)=(R×R)=(R×R)=Identity. [5,3,3] () is generated by 3 rotations: S = R×R, S = R×R, S = R×R, etc.\n\nIn one dimension, the \"bilateral group\" [ ] represents a single mirror symmetry, abstract \"Dih\" or \"Z\", symmetry order 2. It is represented as a Coxeter–Dynkin diagram with a single node, . The \"identity group\" is the direct subgroup [ ], Z, symmetry order 1. The + superscript simply implies that alternate mirror reflections are ignored, leaving the identity group in this simplest case. Coxeter used a single open node to represent an alternation, .\n\nIn two dimensions, the \"rectangular group\" [2], abstract \"D\" or \"D\", also can be represented as a direct product [ ]×[ ], being the product of two bilateral groups, represents two orthogonal mirrors, with Coxeter diagram, , with order 4. The 2 in [2] comes from linearization of the orthogonal subgraphs in the Coxeter diagram, as with explicit branch order 2. The \"rhombic group\", [2] ( or ), half of the rectangular group, the point reflection symmetry, Z, order 2.\n\nCoxeter notation to allow a 1 place-holder for lower rank groups, so [1] is the same as [ ], and [1] or [1] is the same as [ ] and Coxeter diagram .\n\nThe \"full p-gonal group\" [p], abstract \"dihedral group\" D, (nonabelian for p>2), of order 2\"p\", is generated by two mirrors at angle \"π\"/\"p\", represented by Coxeter diagram . The \"p-gonal\" subgroup [p], \"cyclic group\" \"Z\", of order \"p\", generated by a rotation angle of \"π\"/\"p\".\n\nCoxeter notation uses double-bracking to represent an automorphic \"doubling\" of symmetry by adding a bisecting mirror to the fundamental domain. For example, <nowiki>p</nowiki> adds a bisecting mirror to [p], and is isomorphic to [2p].\n\nIn the limit, going down to one dimensions, the \"full apeirogonal group\" is obtained when the angle goes to zero, so [∞], abstractly the infinite dihedral group D, represents two parallel mirrors and has a Coxeter diagram . The \"apeirogonal group\" [∞], , abstractly the infinite cyclic group Z, isomorphic to the \"additive group\" of the integers, is generated by a single nonzero translation.\n\nIn the hyperbolic plane, there is a \"full pseudogonal group\" [\"iπ/λ\"], and \"pseudogonal subgroup\" [\"iπ/λ\"], . These groups exist in regular infinite-sided polygons, with edge length λ. The mirrors are all orthogonal to a single line.\n\nPoint groups in 3 dimensions can be expressed in bracket notation related to the rank 3 Coxeter groups:\nIn three dimensions, the \"full orthorhombic group\" or \"orthorectangular\" [2,2], abstractly \"D\"×\"D\", order 8, represents three orthogonal mirrors, (also represented by Coxeter diagram as three separate dots ). It can also can be represented as a direct product [ ]×[ ]×[ ], but the [2,2] expression allows subgroups to be defined:\n\nFirst there is a \"semidirect\" subgroup, the \"orthorhombic group\", [2,2] ( or ), abstractly \"D\"×\"Z\"=\"Z\"×\"Z\", of order 4. When the + superscript is given inside of the brackets, it means reflections generated only from the adjacent mirrors (as defined by the Coxeter diagram, ) are alternated. In general, the branch orders neighboring the + node must be even. In this case [2,2] and [2,2] represent two isomorphic subgroups that are geometrically distinct. The other subgroups are the \"pararhombic group\" [2,2] ( or ), also order 4, and finally the \"central group\" [2,2] ( or ) of order 2.\n\nNext there is the \"full ortho-\"p\"-gonal group\", [2,p] (), abstractly \"D\"×\"D\"=\"Z\"×\"D\", of order 4p, representing two mirrors at a dihedral angle π/\"p\", and both are orthogonal to a third mirror. It is also represented by Coxeter diagram as .\n\nThe direct subgroup is called the para-\"p\"-gonal group, [2,p] ( or ), abstractly \"D\", of order 2p, and another subgroup is [2,p] () abstractly \"D\"×\"Z\", also of order 2p.\n\nThe \"full gyro-p-gonal group\", [2,2\"p\"] ( or ), abstractly \"D\", of order 4\"p\". The gyro-\"p\"-gonal group, [2,2p] ( or ), abstractly \"Z\", of order 2\"p\" is a subgroup of both [2,2\"p\"] and [2,2\"p\"].\n\nThe polyhedral groups are based on the symmetry of platonic solids: the tetrahedron, octahedron, cube, icosahedron, and dodecahedron, with Schläfli symbols {3,3}, {3,4}, {4,3}, {3,5}, and {5,3} respectively. The Coxeter groups for these are: [3,3] (), [3,4] (), [3,5] () called full tetrahedral symmetry, octahedral symmetry, and icosahedral symmetry, with orders of 24, 48, and 120.\n\nIn all these symmetries, alternate reflections can be removed producing the rotational tetrahedral [3,3](), octahedral [3,4] (), and icosahedral [3,5] () groups of order 12, 24, and 60. The octahedral group also has a unique index 2 subgroup called the pyritohedral symmetry group, [3,4] ( or ), of order 12, with a mixture of rotational and reflectional symmetry. Pyritohedral symmetry is also an index 5 subgroup of icosahedral symmetry: --> , with virtual mirror 1 across 0, {010}, and 3-fold rotation {12}.\n\nThe tetrahedral group, [3,3] (), has a doubling (which can be represented by colored nodes ), mapping the first and last mirrors onto each other, and this produces the [3,4] ( or ) group. The subgroup [3,4,1] ( or ) is the same as [3,3], and [3,4,1] ( or ) is the same as [3,3].\n\nIn the Euclidean plane there's 3 fundamental reflective groups generated by 3 mirrors, represented by Coxeter diagrams , , and , and are given Coxeter notation as [4,4], [6,3], and [(3,3,3)]. The parentheses of the last group imply the diagram cycle, and also has a shorthand notation [3].\n\nDirect subgroups of rotational symmetry are: [4,4], [6,3], and [(3,3,3)]. [4,4] and [6,3] are semidirect subgroups.\n\nGiven in Coxeter notation (orbifold notation), some low index affine subgroups are:\nRank four groups defined the 4-dimensional point groups:\n\nRank four groups also defined the 3-dimensional line groups:\n\nRank four groups defined the 4-dimensional duoprismatic groups. In the limit as p and q go to infinity, they degenerate into 2 dimensions and the wallpaper groups.\nRank four groups also defined some of the 2-dimensional wallpaper groups, as limiting cases of the four-dimensional duoprism groups:\nSubgroups of [∞,2,∞], (*2222) can be expressed down to its index 16 commutator subgroup:\n\nCoxeter notation has been extended to Complex space, C where nodes are unitary reflections of period greater than 2. Nodes are labeled by an index, assumed to be 2 for ordinary real reflection if suppressed. Complex reflection groups are called Shephard groups rather than Coxeter groups, and can be used to construct complex polytopes.\n\nIn formula_18, a rank 1 shephard group , order \"p\", is represented as [], [] or ][. It has a single generator, representing a 2\"π\"/\"p\" radian rotation in the Complex plane: formula_19.\n\nCoxeter writes the rank 2 complex group, [\"q\"] represents Coxeter diagram . The \"p\" and \"r\" should only be suppressed if both are 2, which is the real case [\"q\"]. The order of a rank 2 group [\"q\"] is formula_20.\n\nThe rank 2 solutions that generate complex polygons are: [4] (\"p\" is 2,3,4...), [3], [6], [4], [3], [8], [6], [4], [5], [3], [10], [6], and [4] with Coxeter diagrams , , , , , , , , , , , , . \nInfinite groups are [12], [8], [6], [6], [4], [4], and [3] or , , , , , , .\n\nIndex 2 subgroups exists by removing a real reflection: [2\"q\"] → [\"q\"]. Also index \"r\" subgroups exist for 4 branches: [4] → [\"r\"].\n\nFor the infinite family [4], for any \"p\" = 2, 3, 4..., there are two subgroups: [4] → [\"p\"], index \"p\", while and [4] → []×[], index 2.\n"}
{"id": "6935201", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6935201", "title": "Crop art", "text": "Crop art\n\nCrop art is an environmental art practice using plants and seeds in the landscape to create statements, marks and/or images. Agnes Denes, Matthew Moore (artist), Dennis Oppenheim and Stan Herd are practitioners of Crop art. Some works of Land art, and Earth art are similar in scale, and can be seen only from aerial viewpoints.\n\nOne folk art version of crop art is called seed art, a visual art form created in mosaic-style, similar to the technique of pointillism in painting, or needlepoint textiles. Seed mosaic images are created by fixing vegetable matter, especially seeds, to a background. Coleen Sheehy, in \"Seed Queen\" quotes a classic text on the subject: \"Decorating with Seed mosaics, Chipped Glass and Plant materials\" (first pub.1960) by Elenor Van Rennslaer \"...mosaics are tiles, glass, or stones set in mortar. Instead of these you can create a different kind of mosaic using such plant materials as seeds, tiny pods, and flowers\" (Sheehy 49).\nAn example is the Corn Palace of Mitchell, South Dakota, that was first built for the 1892 Corn Exposition. Outer walls of the building were -and still are- covered in murals made from multi-colored ears of corn (Sheehy 24) The seed mosaic portraits by Lillian Colton are also examples. Her seed portraits of celebrities were exhibited in the strictly defined \"Crop art\" category at the Minnesota State Fair beginning in 1966. Rules for entry of Crop art allow \"only seeds from Minnesota-grown farm crops or cultivated garden flowers, fruits, and vegetables\" with no wild plant seeds permitted. Colton continued to teach and make Crop art until her death at age 95 in 2007 (Sheehy 2). A new generation of Crop, or Seed artists, known as the \"Postmodern School of Minnesota Crop Art\" (Sheehy 90) is continuing this folk tradition. Some of these artists are \"Cathy Camper, Alan Carpenter, Kim Cope, Linda Koutsky, Nancy Loung, Suzy Mears, Laura Melnick, and David Steinlicht\" (Sheehy 90). There is a custodial aspect and preservation ethic associated with this plant-based art form. Making Crop art is not only a way preserving and rejuvenating a vibrant folk craft but its practice foregrounds the need to collect, store, and value the lore and varieties of seeds.\nIn Los Angeles, the Rose Bowl Parade floats employ the flowers of plants in a similar collage or mosaic style.\n\nThe term Crop art might be used to describe formations known as crop circles. Crop Circles first came to mass media attention during the 1980s after they were noticed in some agricultural fields in southern England (Ency Rel/Spir). Most often the images consist of very large and intricate series of rings and lines formed when standing crops, such as wheat and rye are flattened into patterns. Some attribute these designs to the marks left by landings of extra terrestrial craft because the images are usually very large, appear over a short period of time, and some do not show any visible tracks into or out of the design. These same type of figures are found all over the world; though many do not attribute their manifestation to visitations by alien beings. Crop Circles are sometimes called crop formations, agroglyphs, or pictograms. Some are also created by recognized \"landscape artists\" for commercial purposes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10274610", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10274610", "title": "Ethics and Language", "text": "Ethics and Language\n\nEthics and Language is a 1944 book by C. L. Stevenson which was influential in furthering the metaethical view of emotivism first espoused by David Hume.\n"}
{"id": "47205490", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47205490", "title": "Fin bathroom", "text": "Fin bathroom\n\nFin bathroom is a \"bath museum\" that is located in Fin garden, kashan, and it is the shambles of Amir Kabir. This bathroom consists of two large and small bathroom. Construction of small bathroom is related to the Safavid era and it has been created with the original building of the garden. By building a large bath in the time of Fath Ali Shah, the large bath was allocated to state dignitaries and VIPs of community and it was known as the Royal Bathroom. In contrast, the small bathroom was recognized as crew bathroom and was used by the general population.\nThe remarkable thing is that both bathrooms were complete with all the traditional features and architectural landmarks. Fin Bath in 1314 was registered as a national monument; it has also been registered in the UNESCO World Heritage List in 2011.\n\n"}
{"id": "28044175", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28044175", "title": "Florence Meyer Blumenthal", "text": "Florence Meyer Blumenthal\n\nFlorence Meyer Blumenthal (1875–1930) was an American philanthropist who founded the \"Fondation franco-américaine Florence Blumenthal (Franco-American Florence Blumenthal Foundation),\" which awarded the Prix Blumenthal from 1919-1954 to painters, sculptors, decorators, engravers, writers, and musicians — to promote Franco- American relations.\n\nFor their altruism, Florence Blumenthal and her husband George Blumenthal received the French Legion of Honor in 1929. Both as well as in Paris are named in her honor.\n\nFlorence Meyer was born in Los Angeles in 1875, the third of eight children of Marc Eugene Meyer, dry goods merchant from Strasbourg, France, and Harriet Newmark Meyer, daughter of Joseph Newmark, who founded New York’s Elm Street Synagogue. Florence's younger brother Eugene Meyer Jr. was president and publisher of \"The Washington Post.\" In 1898, Florence married international financier George Blumenthal. In 1919, she organized the \"La Fondation américaine Blumenthal pour la pensée et l’art français (American Foundation for French Art and Thought)\" in Paris to discover young French artists, aid them financially, and in the process draw the United States and France closer together through art, thought, and literature.\n\nIn 1925, Blumenthal moved to Paris with her husband, later donating to the Children’s Hospital in Paris the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York, the Sorbonne in Paris. She and her husband received the French Legion of Honor in 1929, and Blumenthal died of bronchial pneumonia at her home in Paris on September 21, 1930, at age fifty-five.\n\n\"Washington Post\" publisher Katharine Graham described her aunt, known within the family as Florie, as having a perfect figure and for \"bringing home massive amounts of clothing from Paris.\" Blumenthal was also related to the Levi Strauss family through her older sisters, Rosalie and Elise, each of whom had married a nephew of Strauss'.\n\nThe Blumenthals summered in France or on yachts in the Mediterranean and were noted for their residences, Knollwood Club in the Adirondacks, their mansion in New York (half a city block and had an indoor tiled swimming pool) as well as their mansion in Paris, for which an entire wing was built to house a new organ.\n\nIn 1907, she and her husband were injured in an automobile accident in Paris, where George Blumenthal received a bad cut on his face. The Blumenthals had one son, who died at an early age.\n\nBlumenthal died on September 21, 1930, at age fifty-five, of bronchial pneumonia at home in Paris.\n\nIn 2010 (May 14-June 5), the Médiathèque of Haguenau hosted an exhibit of the Florence Blumenthal archives.\n\nRecognizing the quality of care provided to their son by Professor Le Mee at the Necker Children's Hospital in Paris, the Blumenthals make a significant donation for the construction of a new building, the Blumenthal Pavilion, built in 1926 as an innovative Ear Nose & Throat (ENT) center operating around the clock, similar to the Children's Hospital of Philadelphia.\n\nThe Prix Blumenthal (or \"Blumenthal Prize\") was a grant or stipend awarded through the \"Fondation franco-américaine Florence Blumenthal (Franco-American Florence Blumenthal Foundation)\", which Florence Blumenthal had founded. Grants were given from 1919-1954 to painters, sculptors, decorators, engravers, writers, and musicians.\n\nJuries including Paul Signac and Aristide Maillol, awarded a Prix Blumenthal purse of six thousand francs per year for two years. This was increased from 1926 until her death in 1930 to ten thousand francs a year.\n\nFrom 1919 to 1954 nearly two hundred artists received grants, including in 1921 Georges Migot (1891–1976), composer, painter, and a carver; in 1926 Paul Belmondo, sculptor; also in 1926 Paule Marrot, textile artist; in 1930 Robert Couturier, sculptor; in 1934 Jean Oberlé, painter and in 1941 Jean Follain, author and poet.\n\nAs an example of the impact of the Prix Blumenthal, textile artist Paule Marrot received the stipend in 1928, which allowed Marrot to open her workshop in Batignolles on rue Truffaut — where she became widely known for furniture textiles. Marrot went on to experience strong popularity and commercial success in the U.S. after World War II, made a strong impact at Renault in pioneering the company's textile and color division, and redefined furnishing fabrics in France. In 1952 Marrot won in 1952, the French Légion d'honneur (Legion of Honor), (\"Chevalier\") — and her textiles continue under license to diverse companies including Nike, Anthropologie and the handbag maker, Hayden-Harnett.\n"}
{"id": "5541228", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5541228", "title": "Fragrance extraction", "text": "Fragrance extraction\n\nFragrance extraction refers to the separation process of aromatic compounds from raw materials, using methods such as distillation, solvent extraction, expression, sieving, or enfleurage. The results of the extracts are either essential oils, absolutes, concretes, or butters, depending on the amount of waxes in the extracted product.\n\nTo a certain extent, all of these techniques tend to distort the odour of the aromatic compounds obtained from the raw materials. Heat, chemical solvents, or exposure to oxygen in the extraction process denature the aromatic compounds, either changing their odour character or rendering them odourless.\n\nCertain plant materials contain too little volatile oil to undergo expression, or their chemical components are too delicate and easily denatured by the high heat used in steam distillation. Instead, the oils are extracted using their solvent properties.\n\nOrganic solvent extraction is the most common and most economically important technique for extracting aromatics in the modern perfume industry. Raw materials are submerged and agitated in a solvent that can dissolve the desired aromatic compounds. Commonly used solvents for \"maceration/solvent extraction\" include hexane, and dimethyl ether.\n\nIn organic solvent extraction, aromatic compounds as well as other hydrophobic soluble substances such as wax and pigments are also obtained. The extract is subjected to vacuum processing, which removes the solvent for re-use. The process can last anywhere from hours to months. Fragrant compounds for woody and fibrous plant materials are often obtained in this matter as are all aromatics from animal sources. The technique can also be used to extract odorants that are too volatile for \"distillation\" or easily denatured by heat. The remaining waxy mass is known as a \"concrete\", which is a mixture of essential oil, waxes, resins, and other lipophilic (oil-soluble) plant material, since these solvents effectively remove all hydrophobic compounds in the raw material. The solvent is then removed by a lower temperature distillation process and reclaimed for re-use.\n\nAlthough highly fragrant, concretes are too viscous – even solid – at room temperature to be useful. This is due to the presence of high-molecular-weight, non-fragrant waxes and resins. Another solvent, often ethyl alcohol, which only dissolves the fragrant low-molecular weight compounds, must be used to extract the fragrant oil from the concrete. The alcohol is removed by a second distillation, leaving behind the \"absolute\". These extracts from plants such as jasmine and rose, are called absolutes.\n\nDue to the low temperatures in this process, the absolute may be more faithful to the original scent of the raw material, which is subjected to high heat during the distillation process.\n\nSupercritical fluid extraction is a relatively new technique for extracting fragrant compounds from a raw material, which often employs Supercritical CO as the extraction solvent. When carbon dioxide is put under high pressure at slightly above room temperature, a supercritical fluid forms (Under normal pressure CO changes directly from a solid to a gas in a process known as sublimation.) Since CO in a non-polar compound has low surface tension and wets easily, it can be used to extract the typically hydrophobic aromatics from the plant material. This process is identical to one of the techniques for making decaffeinated coffee.\n\nIn supercritical fluid extraction, high pressure carbon dioxide gas (up to 100 atm.) is used as a solvent. Due to the low heat of process and the relatively unreactive solvent used in the extraction, the fragrant compounds derived often closely resemble the original odour of the raw material. Like solvent extraction, the CO extraction takes place at a low temperature, extracts a wide range of compounds, and leaves the aromatics unaltered by heat, rendering an essence more faithful to the original. Since CO is gas at normal atmospheric pressure, it also leaves no trace of itself in the final product, thus allowing one to get the absolute directly without having to deal with a concrete. It is a low-temperature process, and the solvents are easily removed. Extracts produced using this process are known as \"CO extracts\".\n\nEthanol extraction is a type of solvent extraction used to extract fragrant compounds directly from dry raw materials, as well as the impure oils or concrete resulting from organic solvent extraction, expression, or enfluerage. Ethanol extracts from dry materials are called \"tinctures\", while ethanol washes for purifying oils and concretes are called \"absolutes\".\n\nThe impure substances or oils are mixed with ethanol, which is less hydrophobic than solvents used for organic extraction, dissolves more of the oxidized aromatic constituents (alcohols, aldehydes, etc.), leaving behind the wax, fats, and other generally hydrophobic substances. The alcohol is evaporated under low-pressure, leaving behind absolute. The absolute may be further processed to remove any impurities that are still present from the solvent extraction.\n\nEthanol extraction is not used to extract fragrance from fresh plant materials; these contain large quantities of water, which would also be extracted into the ethanol.\n\nDistillation is a common technique for obtaining aromatic compounds from plants, such as orange blossoms and roses. The raw material is heated and the fragrant compounds are re-collected through condensation of the distilled vapor. Distilled products, whether through steam or dry distillation are known either as \"essential oils\" or \"ottos\".\n\nToday, most common essential oils, such as lavender, peppermint, and eucalyptus, are distilled. Raw plant material, consisting of the flowers, leaves, wood, bark, roots, seeds, or peel, is put into an alembic (distillation apparatus) over water.\n\nSteam from boiling water is passed through the raw material for 60–105 minutes, which drives out most of their volatile fragrant compounds. The condensate from distillation, which contain both water and the aromatics, is settled in a Florentine flask. This allows for the easy separation of the fragrant oils from the water as the oil will float to the top of the distillate where it is removed, leaving behind the watery distillate. The water collected from the condensate, which retains some of the fragrant compounds and oils from the raw material, is called hydrosol and is sometimes sold for consumer and commercial use. This method is most commonly used for fresh plant materials such as flowers, leaves, and stems. Popular hydrosols are rose water, lavender water, and orange blossom water. Many plant hydrosols have unpleasant smells and are therefore not sold.\n\nMost oils are distilled in a single process. One exception is Ylang-ylang (Cananga odorata), which takes 22 hours to complete distillation. It is fractionally distilled, producing several grades (Ylang-Ylang \"extra\", I, II, III and \"complete,\" in which the distillation is run from start to finish with no interruption).\n\nAlso known as \"rectification\", the raw materials are directly heated in a still without a carrier solvent such as water. Fragrant compounds that are released from the raw material by the high heat often undergo anhydrous pyrolysis, which results in the formation of different fragrant compounds, and thus different fragrant notes. This method is used to obtain fragrant compounds from fossil amber and fragrant woods (such as birch tar) where an intentional \"burned\" or \"toasted\" odour is desired.\n\nThrough the use of a fractionation column, different fractions distilled from a material can be selectively excluded to manipulate the scent of the final product. Although the product is more expensive, this is sometimes performed to remove unpleasant or undesirable scents of a material and affords the perfumer more control over their composition process.\n\nExpression as a method of fragrance extraction where raw materials are pressed, squeezed or compressed and the essential oils are collected. In contemporary times, the only fragrant oils obtained using this method are the peels of fruits in the citrus family. This is due to the large quantity of oil is present in the peels of these fruits as to make this extraction method economically feasible. Citrus peel oils are expressed mechanically, or \"cold-pressed\". Due to the large quantities of oil in citrus peel and the relatively low cost to grow and harvest the raw materials, citrus-fruit oils are cheaper than most other essential oils. Lemon or sweet orange oils that are obtained as by-products of the commercial citrus industry are among the cheapest citrus oils.\n\nExpression was mainly used prior to the discovery of distillation, and this is still the case in cultures such as Egypt. Traditional Egyptian practice involves pressing the plant material, then burying it in unglazed ceramic vessels in the desert for a period of months to drive out water. The water has a smaller molecular size, so it diffuses through the ceramic vessels, while the larger essential oils do not. The lotus oil in Tutankhamen's tomb, which retained its scent after 3000 years sealed in alabaster vessels, was pressed in this manner.\n\nEnfleurage is a two-step process during which the odour of aromatic materials is absorbed into wax or fat, then extracted with alcohol. Extraction by enfleurage was commonly used when distillation was not possible because some fragrant compounds denature through high heat. This technique is not commonly used in modern industry, due to both its prohibitive cost and the existence of more efficient and effective extraction methods.\n\n"}
{"id": "25433977", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25433977", "title": "Glued to the Box", "text": "Glued to the Box\n\nGlued to the Box (TV Criticism from the \"Observer\" 1979–1982), is the third and final collection of the television criticism Clive James wrote for \"The Observer\". It includes material from articles that run from 2 December 1979 to 28 March 1982. In the Introduction he writes that he had, \"never thought of television criticism as a career. It is the sort of thing one goes into with a whole heart but not for ones whole life.\" The volume finishes with his \"standing up and moving aside\" for his successor, Julian Barnes. \"No doubt he will slag one of my programmes first chance he gets, but by then I will be in the habit of damning all critics as fools.\" \"The London Review of Books\" wrote: \"Along with its two predecessors, (\"Visions Before Midnight\" and \"The Crystal Bucket\"), it will stand as a once-only critical phenomenon: ten years worth of high intelligence and wit.\" Sheridan Morley called him \"far and away the funniest writer in regular Fleet Street employment.\" The book is dedicated to Pat Kavanagh and Dan Kavanagh and carries an epigraph from Charles Péguy at its start.\n\n"}
{"id": "30672962", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30672962", "title": "IPhone art", "text": "IPhone art\n\niPhone art is a form of Interactive art that takes place on the screen of the iPhone, iPad, or iPod Touch. It is distinct from pictorial works of art produced with an iPhone using paint apps such as Brushes or ArtRage.\n\niPhone Art evolved from screen-based interactive art that formerly appeared on PC computer screens or on wall-mounted displays in galleries and museums. Due to the portability and ease of distribution with the iTunes App Store, these forms of art are currently experiencing a renaissance as interactive works of art from the 1990s and 2000s are adapted to the iPhone and iPad, some even becoming bestsellers in the Entertainment and Music categories where these apps normally appear, since there is currently no Art category in the iTunes App Store.\n\nSome of the first iPhone artists include Miltos Manetas and Memo Atken who created the JacksonPollock app, Theo Watson who created FATTAG, Scott Snibbe who created Gravilux and Bubble Harp, and Golan Levin, creator of Yellowtail.\n\nArtists such as David Hockney, Corliss Blakely and Meri Aaron Walker (iPhoneArtGirl) have held art exhibits with art made exclusively on their iPads. Musician Damon Albarn recorded the entirety of the new Gorillaz album, The Fall, on his iPad with various apps while on his North American tour.\n\niPhone art may pose a threat to traditional gallery distribution of digital art because individual artist can distribute their apps directly to the general public without working through a gallery dealer.\n\n"}
{"id": "9054149", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9054149", "title": "Ian Ritchie Architects", "text": "Ian Ritchie Architects\n\nIan Ritchie Architects Ltd is a leading British architectural practice, founded in London in 1981 by Ian Ritchie. The practice has received global recognition for their work, such as their RIBA Award-winning Terrasson Greenhouse and London Regatta Centre, and American Institute of Architects Award-winning Royal Shakespeare Company Courtyard Theatre. The Leipzig Trade Fair Messe Glass Hall was awarded German Building of the Year, whilst The Spire of Dublin was shortlisted for both the RIBA Stirling Prize and Mies van der Rohe Prize.\n\nIan Ritchie Architects was established in 1981 by architect Ian Ritchie CBE RA. His practice has a reputation for delivering designs that are consistently cutting-edge in terms of techniques and materials, inventiveness, imaginatively conceived details, and an integration of architecture, engineering, and fabrication.\n\nThe practice has received much national and international recognition, having been nominated for over 60 national and international awards and shortlisted four times for the RIBA Stirling Prize and European Mies Van der Rohe Prize. Other awards include the Iritecna Prize for Europe; Eric Lyons Memorial Award for European Housing; Commonwealth Association of Architects Award for Innovation and the Advancement of Architecture; IABSE (International Association for Bridge and Structural Engineering) Millennium; and UK Millennium Product Awards.\n\nThe practice has also been short-listed on four occasions for the RIBA Stirling Prize for the Crystal Palace Park Concert Platform (1998), the TR2 Production Centre at the Theatre Royal, Plymouth (2003), the Spire of Dublin (2004) and the RSC Courtyard Theatre (2007).\n\nThe practice's work has been extensively exhibited. In the UK their work has been exhibited by the ICA, Tate Gallery, Royal Academy of Arts, and the RIBA. Internationally it has been exhibited in Tokyo, New York, São Paulo, Moscow, Vienna, Frankfurt, Berlin, Copenhagen, and Paris and Venice Biennales.\n\n\n\nIan Ritchie (Architect)\n\n"}
{"id": "32912740", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32912740", "title": "Imre Kinszki", "text": "Imre Kinszki\n\nImre Kinszki (1901–1945) was a Jewish-Hungarian photographer.\n\nImre Kinszki was born in Budapest, Hungary in 1901. He captured motion and speed, architecture, and city life. In 1937, together with Erno Vadas and Gusztáv Seiden, he co-founded the Modern Hungarian Photographers Group. His photographs and articles appeared in \"American Photography\" and \"National Geographic\".\n\nIn 1943, during the Second World War, he was sent to forced labor camps in Romania and Hungary. He died on the way to Sachsenhausen concentration camp in 1945.\n"}
{"id": "56146122", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56146122", "title": "Julian Young", "text": "Julian Young\n\nJulian Padraic Young (born June 19, 1943) is an American philosopher and William R. Kenan Jr. Professor of Humanities at Wake Forest University. \nHe is known for his expertise on post-Kantian philosophy.\n\nHe specializes in Continental (nineteenth- and twentieth-century German and French) philosophy, philosophy of art, environmental philosophy, and philosophy of religion. Prior to moving to the United States, Professor Young taught at all levels at the universities of Auckland, Pittsburgh, Calgary and Tasmania, the following: Introduction to Ethics, Introduction to Metaphysics and Theory of Knowledge, Introduction to Theories of Human Nature, British Empiricism, Quine and Sellars, Wittgenstein, Plato, Kant, Hegel, Nietzsche, Schopenhauer, Heidegger, Sartre and Camus. He has supervised and examined numerous MA and PhD theses at Auckland and throughout Australasia. He is the author of ten books, mostly on nineteenth- and twentieth-century German philosophy. He has appeared on radio and television in Ireland, New Zealand and the US, and has written for the Guardian, the New York Times and Harper's Magazine.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40822992", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40822992", "title": "Karadagh rug", "text": "Karadagh rug\n\nKaradagh rug or Karaja rug handmade in or near the village of Qarājeh (Karaja), in the Qareh Dāgh (Karadagh) region of Iran just south of the Azerbaijan border, northeast of Tabrīz.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1505369", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1505369", "title": "Lena Söderberg", "text": "Lena Söderberg\n\nLena Söderberg, born Sjööblom (born 31 March 1951) is a Swedish model who appeared as a Playmate in the November 1972 issue of \"Playboy\" magazine, as Lenna Sjööblom. Her centerfold was photographed by Dwight Hooker.\n\nA head and shoulder section of her centerfold, this cropped section itself known as Lenna, is often used to test algorithms in digital image processing. She was a guest at the 50th annual Conference of the Society for Imaging Science and Technology in 1997, where she gave a presentation about herself. Because of the ubiquity of her \"Playboy\" photo scan, she has been called the \"first lady of the internet\". The title was given to her by Jeff Seideman in a press release he issued announcing her appearance at the 50th annual IS&T Conference.\n\nSöderberg is married and has three children.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28885900", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28885900", "title": "Lion comique", "text": "Lion comique\n\nThe lion comique was a type of popular entertainer in the Victorian music halls, a parody of upper-class toffs or \"swells\" made popular by Alfred Vance and G. H. MacDermott, among others. They were artistes whose stage appearance, resplendent in evening dress (generally white tie), contrasted with the cloth-cap image of most of their music-hall contemporaries.\n\nThe songs the \"lions comiques\" sang were \"hymns of praise to the virtues of idleness, womanising and drinking\", perhaps the most well known of which is George Leybourne's \"Champagne Charlie\". The \"lion comique\" deliberately distorted social reality for amusement and escapism.\n\n"}
{"id": "35968770", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35968770", "title": "List of films dealing with anarchism", "text": "List of films dealing with anarchism\n\nThis article is for films both fictional and non-fictional which focus on anarchism, anarchist movements and/or anarchist characters as a theme.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37693793", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37693793", "title": "List of jewellery designers", "text": "List of jewellery designers\n\nThis is a list of notable jewelry designers.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "472263", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=472263", "title": "Mae Murray", "text": "Mae Murray\n\nMae Murray (born Marie Adrienne Koenig, May 10, 1885 – March 23, 1965) was an American actress, dancer, film producer, and screenwriter. Murray rose to fame during the silent film era and was known as \"The Girl with the Bee-Stung Lips\" and \"The Gardenia of the Screen\".\n\nMurray was born in New York City, the second-oldest child of Joseph and Mary (\"née\" Miller) Koenig. Her maternal grandparents had emigrated from France while her paternal grandparents had emigrated from Germany. She had two brothers, William Robert (born November 1889) and Howard Joseph (born January 1884).\n\nThe family eventually moved to an apartment in the Lower East Side. In May 1896, Joseph Koenig, Murray's father, died from acute gastritis due to his alcoholism. To support the family, Mary Koenig took a job as a housekeeper for Harry Payne Whitney.\n\nShe first began acting on the Broadway stage in 1906 with dancer Vernon Castle. In 1908, she joined the chorus line of the Ziegfeld Follies, moving up to headliner by 1915. Murray became a star of the club circuit in both the United States and Europe, performing with Clifton Webb, Rudolph Valentino, and John Gilbert as some of her many dance partners.\n\nMurray made her motion picture debut in \"To Have and to Hold\" in 1916. She became a major star for Universal, starring with Rudolph Valentino in \"The Delicious Little Devil\" and \"Big Little Person\" in 1919. At the height of her popularity, Murray formed her own production company with her director, John M. Stahl. Critics were sometimes less than thrilled with her over-the-top costumes and exaggerated emoting, but her films were popular with movie-going audiences and financially successful.\n\nIn 1925, Murray, Leonard, and Stahl produced films at Tiffany Pictures, with \"Souls for Sables\" (1925), starring Claire Windsor and Eugene O'Brien, as the first film made by Tiffany. For a brief period of time, Murray wrote a weekly column for newspaper scion William Randolph Hearst.\n\nAt her career peak in the early 1920s, Murray, along with such other notable Hollywood personalities as Cecil B. DeMille, Douglas Fairbanks, William S. Hart, Jesse L. Lasky, Harold Lloyd, Hal Roach, Donald Crisp, Conrad Nagel and Irving Thalberg was a member of the board of trustees at the Motion Picture & Television Fund – a charitable organization that offers assistance and care to those in the motion picture and television industries without resources. Four decades later, Murray herself received aid from that organization.\n\nIn the early 1920s, Murray was painted by the well known Hollywood portrait painter Theodore Lukits. This work titled \"Symphony in Jade and Gold (The Actress Mae Murray)\" (1922, Private Collection, Northern California) depicted Murray in the nude, gazing in a mirror. It was exhibited at the Pacific Asia Museum in 1999 and two other venues as part of the exhibition \"Theodore Lukits, An American Orientalist\".\nMurray appeared in the title role in the Erich von Stroheim directed film \"The Merry Widow\" (1925), opposite John Gilbert. When silent films gave way to talkies, Murray made an insecure debut in the new medium in \"Peacock Alley\" (1930), a remake of her earlier 1921 version \"Peacock Alley\". In 1931, she was cast with newcomer Irene Dunne, leading man Lowell Sherman, and with fellow silent screen star Norman Kerry in the talkie \"Bachelor Apartment\". The film was critically panned at the time of release and Murray made only one more film, \"High Stakes\" (1931) also with Sherman.\n\nA crucial blow to her film career occurred after she married her fourth husband, David Mdivani, a Georgian man of minor aristocratic roots, whose brothers Serge and Alexis married actress Pola Negri and the heiress Barbara Hutton respectively. The couple married on June 27, 1926, and Mdivani became her manager, suggesting that his new wife ought to leave MGM. Murray took her husband's advice and walked out of her contract with MGM, making a powerful foe of studio boss Louis B. Mayer. Later, she would swallow her pride and pleaded to return, but Mayer would not rehire her. In effect, Mayer's hostility meant that Murray was blacklisted from working for the Hollywood studios.\n\nMeanwhile, in 1927, Murray was sued by her then-masseuse, the famous Hollywood fitness guru Sylvia of Hollywood for the outstanding amount of $2,125 during a humiliating and detailed court case.\n\nIn the 1940s, Murray appeared regularly at Billy Rose's Diamond Horseshoe, a nightclub which specialized in a \"Gay '90s\" atmosphere, often presenting stars of the past for nostalgic value. Her appearances collected mixed reviews: her dancing (in particular the Merry Widow Waltz) was well received, but she was criticized for her youthful costumes and heavy makeup application, trying to conceal her age. In 1946, she taught ballroom dancing to young teenagers at a dance studio in Los Angeles. It was located on Crenshaw Blvd., near 48th Street.\n\nMurray's finances continued to collapse, and for most of her later life she lived in poverty. She was the subject of an authorized biography, \"The Self-Enchanted\" (1959), written by Jane Ardmore, that has often been incorrectly called Murray's autobiography.\n\nOn the evening of February 19, 1964, 78-year-old Murray was found disoriented in St. Louis, thinking that she had completed a bus trip to New York. Murray explained to a Salvation Army officer that she had become lost trying to find her hotel, which she had forgotten the name of. She also refused bus fare back to Los Angeles as she claimed to have a ticket for the remainder of the journey in her purse, \"if she could find it.\"\n\nIn September 1908, in Hoboken, New Jersey, while she was appearing in the \"Follies of 1908\", Murray married William M. Schwenker, Jr. (born 1885), the unemployed son of a brewery-supply dealer, who cut off his son's allowance upon news of the wedding; they divorced in 1910. On December 18, 1916, she married former dancer and future Olympic bobsled champion Jay O'Brien.\n\nAfter divorcing O'Brien in 1918, Murray wed movie director Robert Z. Leonard on August 18, 1918; they divorced on May 26, 1925.\n\nMurray married her fourth husband, David Mdivani, on June 27, 1926. They had one child, Koran David Mdivani (born 1927), before divorcing in 1933. Koran was later raised by Sara Elizabeth \"Bess\" Cunning of Averill Park, New York, who began taking care of him in 1936, when the child was recovering from a double mastoid operation (Cunning's brother Dr. David Cunning was the surgeon). When Murray attempted to regain custody of her son in 1939, Cunning and her other brothers, John, Ambrose, and Cortland, refused, according to the \"New York Times\", at which time Murray and her former husband, Mdivani, entered a bitter custody dispute. It finally ended in 1940, with Murray being given legal custody of the child and the court ordering Mdivani to pay $400 a month maintenance. However, Koran Mdivani continued to live with Bess Cunning, who adopted him in 1940 under the name Daniel Michael Cunning. Reportedly, Mdivani had managed to siphon off most of Murray's money.\n\nMany years later, Murray moved into the Motion Picture House in Woodland Hills, a retirement community for Hollywood professionals. She died there on March 23, 1965 at the age of 79. She is interred in Valhalla Memorial Park Cemetery, North Hollywood, California.\n\nFor her contribution to the motion picture industry, Mae Murray has a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame at 6318 Hollywood Blvd. She was one of three actresses (Pola Negri and Theda Bara were the others) whose eyes were combined to form the Chicago International Film Festival's logo, a stark, black and white close-up of the composite eyes set as repeated frames in a strip of film.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "921450", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=921450", "title": "Mary MacLane", "text": "Mary MacLane\n\nMary MacLane (May 1, 1881 – \"c\". August 6, 1929) was a controversial Canadian-born American writer whose frank memoirs helped usher in the confessional style of autobiographical writing. MacLane was known as the \"Wild Woman of Butte\".\n\nMacLane was a very popular author for her time, scandalizing the populace with her shocking bestselling first memoir and to a lesser extent her two following books. She was considered wild and uncontrolled, a reputation she nurtured, and was openly bisexual as well as a vocal feminist. In her writings, she compared herself to another frank young memoirist, Marie Bashkirtseff, who died a few years after MacLane was born, and H. L. Mencken called her \"the Butte Bashkirtseff.\"\n\nMacLane was born in Winnipeg, Manitoba, Canada in 1881, but her family moved to the Red River area of Minnesota, settling in Fergus Falls, which her father helped develop. After his death in 1889, her mother remarried a family friend and lawyer, H. Gysbert Klenze. Soon after, the family moved to Montana, first settling in Great Falls and finally in Butte, where Klenze drained the family funds pursuing mining and other ventures. MacLane spent the remainder of her life in the United States. She began writing for her school paper in 1898.\n\nFrom the beginning, MacLane's writing was characterized by a direct, fiery, highly individualistic style. She was, however, also strongly influenced by such American regional realists as John Townsend Trowbridge (with whom she exchanged a few letters), Maria Louise Pool, and Hamlin Garland.\n\nAt the age of 19 in 1901, MacLane wrote her first book, titled by its author \"I Await the Devil's Coming\" but changed by its publishers, Herbert S. Stone & Co., to \"The Story of Mary MacLane.\" It sold 100,000 copies in the first month and was influential on young women, but was pilloried by conservative critics and readers, and lightly ridiculed by H. L. Mencken.\n\nSome critics have suggested that even by today's standards, MacLane's writing is raw, honest, unflinching, self-aware, sensual, and extreme. She wrote openly about egoism and her own self-love, about sexual attraction and love for other women, and even about her desire to marry the Devil.\n\nHer second book, \"My Friend Annabel Lee\" was published by Stone in 1903. More experimental in style than her debut book, it was not nearly so sensational, though MacLane was said to have made a fairly large amount of money.\n\nHer final book, \"I, Mary Maclane: A Diary of Human Days\" was published by Frederick A. Stokes in 1917 and sold moderately well but may have been overshadowed by America's recent entry into World War I.\n\nIn 1917, she wrote and starred in the 90-minute autobiographical silent film titled \"Men Who Have Made Love to Me\", for Essanay Studios. Produced by film pioneer George Kirke Spoor and based on MacLane's 1910 article of the same title for a Butte newspaper, it has been speculated to have been an extremely early, if not the earliest, sustained breaking of the fourth wall in cinema, with the writer-star directly addressing the audience. Though stills and some subtitles have survived, the film is now believed to be lost.\n\nAmong the numerous authors who referenced, parodied, or answered MacLane were Mark Twain, F. Scott Fitzgerald, Harriet Monroe, famed lawyer Clarence Darrow, Ring Lardner Jr., Sherwood Anderson and Daniel Clowes in Ice Haven. Among the less-remembered was Gertrude Sanborn, who published an optimistic riposte to MacLane's 1917 \"I, Mary MacLane\" under the title \"I, Citizen of Eternity\" (1920).\n\nMacLane had always chafed, or felt, \"\"anxiety\" of place,\" at living in Butte, which was a mining city far from cultural centers, and used the money from her first book's sales to travel to Chicago, then Massachusetts. She lived in Rockland, Massachusetts, wintering in St. Augustine, Florida, from 1903–1908, then in Greenwich Village from 1908–1909, where she continued writing and, by her own account, living a decadent and Bohemian existence. She was close friends with the feminist writer Inez Haynes Irwin, who is mentioned in MacLane's private correspondence and is referenced in some of MacLane's 1910 writing in a Butte newspaper.\n\nFor a period she lived with her friend Caroline M. Branson, who had been the long-time companion of Maria Louise Pool until the death of the latter in 1898. They lived in the Rockland's house that Pool left to Branson. Mary Maclane also had a relationship with Harriet Monroe. In a poem dated 1902, MacLane writes:\n\nDear Harriet Monroe -\n\nI remember you\n\nI remember you on a summer forenoon.\n\nYou were there and I was there.\n\nWe went out to walk by the lake-shore.\n\nThe lake-shore was very beautiful.\n\nYou were so fascinating that day. You were so strong. You were so true.\n\nParticularly you were so true.\n\nI loved you.\n\nI had infinite faith in you.\n\nAnd you were kind.\n\nYou were kind - so that I felt it without knowing it.\n\nWhich is a wonderful thing and goes far.\n\nSurely no Pharisee was ever yet kind like that.\n\nFor a summer forenoon:\n\nMy love to you - oh, my love to you.\n\nDear Harriet Monroe. -\n\nAt any rate - good-by.\n\n- My love to you, always. - \n\nMacLane died in Chicago in early August 1929, aged 48. She was less frequently discussed through the mid to late 20th century, and her prose remained out of print until late 1993, when \"The Story of Mary MacLane\" and some of her newspaper feature work was republished in \"Tender Darkness: A Mary MacLane Anthology\".\n\nIn January 2011, the publisher of \"Tender Darkness\" (1993) announced forthcoming publication of an integrated complete-works anthology and biographical study of MacLane. The first volume, \"Human Days: A Mary MacLane Reader\" (with a Foreword by Bojana Novakovic), was published in late 2014.\n\nIn 2011, Novakovic wrote and performed \"The Story of Mary MacLane - By Herself\" in Melbourne, Australia, which was subsequently staged in Sydney, Australia in 2012.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48518397", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48518397", "title": "Melissa Bachman", "text": "Melissa Bachman\n\nMelissa Bachman (born 1984) is an American huntress, producer, and host of hunting television programs, currently of the cable television program \"Winchester Deadly Passion\" on the Sportsman Channel, Pursuit Channel, and Wild TV. As a prominent female hunter, she has received personal online attacks as well as praise from supporters.\n\nBachman was raised in Paynesville, Minnesota. Her parents, Dale and Karen Bachman, were both avid hunters who took her on their hunting trips since she was five years old. She was not able to actually hunt until she was twelve, and had to do push-ups for over a year to develop the muscles to pull her bow. Later her parents would sign a work permit so she could start high school at 10 a.m., after hunting in the mornings.\n\nShe attended Paynesville Area High School where she competed in pole vault for the track team, setting school and section 5A records. She served as student representative to the Chamber of Commerce board, winning an Outstanding Young Person award, played saxophone in the concert, pep, and marching bands, was homecoming queen, student council treasurer, a member of the National Honor Society, captain of track and speech teams, a lector in her Catholic church, and earned the Girl Scouts Gold Award by organizing younger Girl Scouts to interact with the elderly.\n\nBachman graduated Paynesville Area High School magna cum laude in 2002, and attended St. Cloud State University with a double major in Spanish and Broadcast Journalism. She survived a likely bout with viral meningitis during a 2004 summer Spanish immersion program in Costa Rica. While pole vaulting in high school and college, Bachman would wrap her pole in camouflage to symbolize her passion for hunting.\n\nAfter graduating in 2006, Bachman sent out 76 video resumes without finding work, and had to take an unpaid internship with North American Media Group's \"North American Hunter\" Television in Minnetonka, driving round trip each day, and working nights as a waitress at a nightclub. Four months later she was hired as a full time producer for the show. She progressed to camera work, first by giving on-camera archery tips that other hunters were unwilling to, and later by filming and editing many of her own hunts to be aired for free, including a bow hunt of a 202 inch Illinois White-tailed deer. \"Nobody turns down free work, I learned,\" she says. As a camera professional, she shot, produced, and edited the first season of Mark Kayser's \"Extreme Pursuits\" program.\n\nIn 2010, Bachman left NAMG to found her own production company named Deadly Passion Productions. She edited and did post-production work for hunting television shows including \"Dangerous Game\", created online and instructional videos, led seminars on hunting at sports shows, managed social media sites, and wrote magazine articles. In January 2012, she returned to \"North American Hunter\" as a host. Among her work for NAH was a five-day-a-week video series called \"\"My Take\" with Melissa Bachman\", that ran from February to August.\n\nIn March 2012, Bachman took the world record for a red stag shot by a female archer in a New Zealand hunt. The hunt was aired both on \"My Take\" and on \"Winchester Deadly Passion\".\nThe \"Winchester Deadly Passion\" program, also produced by North American Media Group, began airing in July 2012 on the Pursuit Channel, and was picked up by the Sportsman Channel for its third season, July 2014. It is named after and sponsored by Winchester Ammunition. In it, Melissa Bachman is filmed traveling the world to hunt animals using rifle, bow, or shotgun. Bachman stars in, produces, and edits the program herself. She works around 200 days a year in the field, switching between two cameramen who need more time off. In 2014, the program came out with a clothing line, and in 2015, Bachman sponsored an ammunition based jewelry line.\n\nBachman struggles for an answer when asked about her life outside TV programs and hunting. \"I can't even keep a plant alive — that's how little I'm home,\" she says.\n\nOn August 30, 2012, the National Geographic Channel were planning Bachman to be one of their contestants for the show that would become Ultimate Survival Alaska, until a Change.org petition to exclude her because of her hunting background received 13,000 signatures in under 24 hours. National Geographic's statement, in three Twitter posts, said she was eliminated because hunting was not the focus of the show. Conservationist Tim Martell, who launched the petition, had previously launched a Facebook campaign against Rosie O'Donnell for appearing with a hammerhead shark she had caught. Martell stated he did not oppose all hunting, primarily trophy hunting, which he considered wasteful.\n\nIn November 2013, Bachman posted a photograph of herself smiling by the body of a lion, captioned \"An incredible day hunting in South Africa! Stalked inside 60-yards on this beautiful male lion... what a hunt!\" to her Twitter and Facebook accounts. The photo quickly drew Internet outrage, including multiple wishes for her death, comedian and animal welfare activist Ricky Gervais re-tweeting Bachman's message while adding \"spot the typo\", and an online petition from a Cape Town resident calling on the South African government to eject her from the country, which gathered hundreds of thousands of signatures. In reaction, Bachman temporarily deactivated her public Facebook and Twitter accounts. Many of the death threats instead went to an unrelated person with a similar name. The Maroi Conservancy, which facilitated the hunt through another outfitter in Zeerust, defended the hunt, stating it was both legal and ethical, and that food and funds from these kinds of hunts go to the struggling local community. International commentators claimed that the online anger directed at Bachman was extraordinary, sexist, and misogynist, and that evidence showed that banning hunting drives species extinct much more than controlled hunts do. At the time of the hunt, African lions were not listed as endangered under the United States Endangered Species Act, though their status was under reassessment and debate.\n\nBachman did not directly comment in response to the controversies, though she has said that hate mail from anti-hunters was one thing she \"could do without\". In 2015, she stated, \"No response at all seems to be the best. It doesn’t matter what you say, or how you say it, some people will always disagree and attack.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "5530848", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5530848", "title": "Michael Dickinson (artist)", "text": "Michael Dickinson (artist)\n\nMichael Dickinson (born 1950, Durham) is an English artist known for his work in Turkey, who works with political and satirical collages. In 2008, he was prosecuted for a collage of the Turkish prime minister, but acquitted. He is also a member of the international art movement Stuckism.\n\nMichael Dickinson was born in Durham, England, and spent most of his early years in Kuwait, where his father was an employee of the Kuwait Oil Company and where he attended the Anglo-American School. He later attended Fyling Hall school in Yorkshire. He lives and works as an English teacher in Istanbul. He is the founder of the Istanbul branch of the Stuckist art movement, and also a writer, playwright and actor.\n\nIn May 2005, Dickinson's web site, \"The Carnival of Chaos\", was blanked and he was informed by the host Tripod (a member of the Lycos group), \"You are no longer an authorized member of Tripod. You have been removed because your web site violated our Terms of Service.\" This occurred after he had posted a collage, \"Tyrant's Pants\", showing President Bush in his underpants with a cruise missile coming out of his rear and a swastika on his right buttock.\nThe collage was a response to a photo which had appeared with the headline \"Tyrant's in his pants\" on the front page of the British tabloid newspaper \"The Sun\", showing captive Saddam Hussein in underpants.\n\nIn June 2006, Istanbul police removed one of Dickinson's collages from a show in the city organised by the Global Peace and Justice Coalition. Dickinson states that he hung his work in the show unknown to the organisers. The collage showed the Turkish Prime Minister Tayyip Erdoğan as a dog being presented with a rosette by President Bush in a pet show. \nHe was informed by Turkish authorities that he would be prosecuted for \"insulting the Prime Minister's dignity\"; the charge carries a sentence of one to three years.\n\"The Times\" said: \"The case could greatly embarrass Turkey and Britain, for it raises questions about Turkey’s human rights record as it seeks EU membership, with Tony Blair’s backing.\" Charles Thomson, co-founder of the Stuckist movement, wrote to British Prime Minister Tony Blair asking for his intervention: \"It is intolerable that a country applying for EU membership should censor freedom of political comment in this way. I trust you will communicate your strongest condemnation and ask for this case to be abandoned immediately. I ask for your assurance that you will oppose Turkish EU membership in the strongest terms, until Turkey adopts the attitudes of the civilised world towards human rights.\" Dickinson said:\n\"It’s such an Alice in Wonderland feeling. The law is so absurd ... This law exists in Turkey about insulting 'Turkishness' or the State. You’re not allowed to state your opinion.\"\n\nIn September 2006, Dickinson attended the trial of Erkan Kara, organiser of the Global Peace and Justice Coalition show, charged with insulting behaviour for exhibiting Dickinson's work. The prosecutor described Dickinson as \"ill-intentioned\", but declined to bring a case because of \"lack of evidence\". Hasan Gungor of the Istanbul-based group, Initiative for Freedom of Speech, attributed this to fear of international news, when the European Union has concerns over freedom of speech in Turkey.\nMembers of Global Peace and Justic Coalition remonstrated with Dickinson for distracting attention from their anti-Iraq War cause, and he then held up another collage showing Erdogan as a dog with a lead of the stars and stripes; he was arrested and charged with insulting the Turkish prime minister's dignity with a trial date scheduled for October 2007. He was then held for ten days, three in prison and seven in the Detention Centre for Foreigners. During his transfer between facilities, he attempted to escape, but was shot at by a policeman, who recaptured him.\n\nIn July 2007, Dickinson's collages were displayed at the A Gallery, London, in the Stuckist show \"I Won't Have Sex with You as long as We're Married\".\n\nOn 25 September 2008, he was acquitted of any crime, the judge ruling that although there were \"some insulting elements\" in his collage, it fell \"within the limits of criticism\". The case has favourable implications for Turkey's relationship with the European Union, which had called for an improvement of its human rights record. Dickinson said, \"I am lucky to be acquitted. There are still artists in Turkey facing prosecution and being sentenced for their opinions.\"\n\nIn June 2009, Dickinson fled Turkey for his native country, Britain, after learning that his acquittal had been overturned. Unable to find work, he returned to Istanbul soon after. In January 2010, a Turkish court convicted Dickinson of mocking the Turkish prime minister and levied a fine. Refusing to pay the fine as a matter of principle, Dickinson faces up to two years in prison. His final sentencing will occur at a trial on 9 March 2010.\n\nDickinson's application for a residence permit was refused due to his 2010 conviction, but he remained in the country after the expiry of his tourist visa. He was arrested in October 2013 for shouting Gezi Park-related slogans at police, and detained after his expired visa was discovered. He was deported after some days (and banned from returning for five years), choosing to go to Barcelona rather than his native Britain.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15292768", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15292768", "title": "Newbridge Silverware", "text": "Newbridge Silverware\n\nDesigner and producer of jewellery, homeware and giftware products and it is this unique history of craftsmanship and experience, combined with a contemporary and fresh attitude to design, that puts Newbridge Silverware on the cutting edge of modern living.\n\n\nThe main store is located in Newbridge, County Kildare and consists of The Visitor Centre and the Newbridge Showrooms, as well as the Museum of Style Icons and the Café Carleton. However, Newbridge Silverware products are sold worldwide in a large number of stores. The entire catalog is also available to shop online from the company's online store with free delivery to Ireland and the U.K. at www.NewbridgeSilverware.com\n\nThe store in Newbridge contains an upstairs Museum of Style Icons (MOSI), such as Audrey Hepburn and Marilyn Monroe. The museum contains clothes and artefacts associated with such stars. The most spectacular piece on display is the hot-pink, silk cocktail dress worn by Audrey Hepburn as Holly Golightly in Breakfast at Tiffany's in 1961. The dress was acquired by Newbridge Silverware's CEO, Mr. William Doyle, for $160,000.\n"}
{"id": "3365514", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3365514", "title": "Oral interpretation", "text": "Oral interpretation\n\nOral Interpretation is a dramatic art, also commonly called \"interpretive reading\" and \"dramatic reading\", though these terms are more conservative and restrictive. In certain applications, oral interpretation is also a theatre art – as in reader's theatre, in which a work of literature is performed with manuscripts in hand or, more traditionally, using stools and music stands; and especially chamber theatre, which dispenses with manuscripts and uses what may be described as essentialist costuming and stage lighting, and suggestive scenery.\n\nThe term is succinctly defined by Paul Campbell (\"The Speaking and Speakers of Literature\"; Dickinson, 1967) as the \"oralization of literature\"; or more eloquently, if less intelligibly, by Charlotte Lee and Timothy Gura (\"Oral Interpretation\"; Houghton-Mifflin, 1997) as \"the art of communicating to an audience a work of literary art in its intellectual, emotional, and aesthetic entirety\". Historically essential to Charlotte Lee's definition of oral interpretation is the fact the performer is \"reading from a manuscript\". This perspective, once the majority view, has long since become the minority opinion on the question; so that whether one is or is not reading from a manuscript, the art retains the same name.\n\nVoice and movement technique is \"opsis\" (\"spectacle\") while oral interpretation is, conceptually, \"melopoiia\" (\"music technique\").\n\nBecause oral interpretation is an essential dramatic element in all performance art (even dance, in which the oral element is most typically a silent element), all actors, singers, storytellers, etc., are \"interpreters\" – but not all interpreters are necessarily actors, or singers, or storytellers, and so on. When, for example, the writer David Sedaris reads one of his stories on stage, or when Leonard Cohen performs one of his lyric poems, they are both engaged in the art of oral interpretation. But Sedaris is no actor, and even Cohen himself would say that \"he\" is no singer.\n\nIn the United States, there is a historic and purely academic argument as to whether oral interpretation and drama/theatre performance are different names for the same thing or whether they are completely different art forms. This argument is almost exclusively found at colleges and universities whose theatre programs evolved in departments historically or currently called \"English and Speech\", \"Speech and Dramatic Arts\" or \"Communication and Theatre Arts\". The argument is rarely heard in theatre programs that did not evolve out of English and/or Speech Communication departments, such as those associated with schools/colleges of music.\n\nIn high schools across the United States, Oral Interpretation is a very highly valued competition event, particularly in the mid-western states, such as Nebraska, Iowa, and South Dakota. Students select a work of literature, make a cutting of the literature to fit a time limit of 10 minutes, and perform it in several rounds at tournaments across their state. The piece must be from a published, worthwhile piece of literature, with the exception of Readers Theatre. The categories of said event are as follows:\n"}
{"id": "3144384", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3144384", "title": "Pakistani folklore", "text": "Pakistani folklore\n\nPakistan has a wide variety of folklore, mostly circulated regionally. However, certain tales have related variants in other regions of the country or in neighbouring countries. \"Pakistani mythology\" here means the myths and sacred narratives of the culturally and linguistically related groups of ancient peoples who inhabited the region of Pakistan and its borderlands.\n\nThe provinces of Pakistan are known by the love stories in their folklore that have been immortalized by singers, reciters and storytellers of the regions.\n\nSindhi folklore () is the folk tradition which has developed in Sindh over a number of centuries.Sindh abounds with folklore, in all forms, and colors from such obvious manifestations as the traditional Watayo Faqir tales, the legend of \"Moriro\", epic tale of Dodo Chanesar, to the heroic character of Marui which distinguishes it among the contemporary folklores of the region. The love story of Sassui, who pines for her lover Punhu, is known and sung in every Sindhi settlement. Other examples of the folklore of Sindh include the stories of Umar Marui and Suhuni Mehar. \nSindhi folk Singers and women play a vital role to transmit the Sindhi folklore. They sang the folktales of Sindh in songs with passion in every village of Sindh.\n\nSindhi folklore has been compiled in a series of forty volumes under Sindhi Adabi Board's project of Folklore and Literature.This valuable project was accomplished by noted sindhi scholar Dr.Nabi Bux Baloch.The material for the project has been collected both from the oral traditions village folks and the written record. This folklore series deals with diverse segments Sindhi folklore and literature i.e. Fables and Fairy-tales, pseudo-historical Romances, Folk-poetry, Folk songs, Proverbs, Riddles etc.\n\nBalochi folklore is alive with the love stories of Hani and Shah Murad Chakar, Shahdad and Mahnaz, Lallah and Granaz, Bebarg and Granaz, and Mast and Sammo, among others. The war tales of the Baloch are equally stirring. The \"chap\", a Baloch style of dancing, has a curious rhythm distinguished by an inertial back sway with every forward step. Baloch music has a unique flavour of its own.\n\nKashmiri regions in the north are equally rich in folklore.\n\nIn the Pukhtun areas of the northwest, the North-West Frontier Province is the home of energetic warlike dancers, the most prominent being the Khattak dance, which bears the name of the tribe that dances it. The romantic tale of Adam Khan and Durkhanai features a lute player (\"rabab\") whose music earns the love of a beautiful girl, although she hasn't seen him yet.\n\nMany folk tales from Punjab have been disseminated worldwide by the Punjabi diaspora, especially in the UK and United States. The tale of two lovers, Heer and Ranjha, is based in the Pakistani part of the Punjab, in a city called Jhang. Today it is celebrated in songs, movies, theatre, and quotations. One may call a romantic person a Ranjha, meaning he is a devoted lover. Similarly a girl in love may be called \"Heer.\" Apart from the epic of Hir and Ranjha, the Punjab has a rich tradition of ballads, folk tales, folk music and dance. The folklore of the Potohar Plateau of the north shows a local variant, while the lush green irrigated agriculture of the central plains is home to more sophisticated forms of folklore. The oldest living urban centre of Multan in the south is home to gentler forms of music and dance.\n\nSaraiki areas in the south are equally rich in folklore.\n\nThe Muslim high culture of Pakistan and rest of South Asia emphasizes Arabic, Persian and Turkic culture. Islamic mythology and is part of Pakistans folklore, as Islamic religion dominates Pakistan since it was imposed by the pan-Islamism colonialists of the Ottoman Empire. The Shahnameh, \"One Thousand and One Nights\" and \"Sinbad the Sailor\" were part of the education of children in what is now Pakistan before English education was imposed by the British colonialism.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58165442", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58165442", "title": "Requiem for Mobile Telephones", "text": "Requiem for Mobile Telephones\n\nRequiem for Mobile Telephones is an interactive assemblage of the performance artist Lubo Kristek and also a series of his happenings. The artist started his happening series in 2007 to protest against the addictions to new technologies. He asked the audience to give up their mobile phones and use them to create an assemblage. \n\nThe first action was held in the city of Znojmo. The spectators sewed the mobile phones directly on to the artist wearing a jacket with a train (the jacket then became the basis for new assemblage). \n\nThe second happening took place in public area – on the pavement of Mariahilfer Straße in Vienna in 2007. Kristek who likes to remove the barriers between art and reality, deliberately got with his action in the way of passers-by to pull them out of their stereotype and to force them adopt an attitude. The artist dipped the balerina’s pointe shoes into the paint and let her dance on a blank canvas. The pointe shoes also became part of the assemblage afterwards. Then he invited school pupils and passers-by to help to create the new assemblage, to paint and sew more mobile phones on to it. Art and life merged in the avant-garde sense.\n\nThe assemblage travelled to an exhibition at the Barockschloß Riegersburg, today Schloss Ruegers (2007). The artist continued to travel with his mission to other states. With each happening interaction the assemblage changed its shape.\n\nIn 2008, the happening series continued in the Neues Stadtmuseum, Landsberg am Lech. It was part of the retrospective exhibition of the works by Lubo Kristek titled \"Third Eye of Distant Communication\".\n\nThe following happening took place in a Polish city of Sucha Beskidzka in 2010. According to Kristek, the relationship of contemporary society to the mobile telephone bears the traits of a cult or even a pathological dependency. Therefore he places this “modern god” on the altar (with the inscription Rest in Peace) and lets a giant triple-breasted angel to drill it through. The participants of the happening actively contribute to the act of sacrificing the mobile phones.\n\n\"Requiem for Mobile Telephones\" belongs to Kristek’s critical assemblages as well as \"Soundproof Aesthetic of Luxuriety\" (1976) that reveals the traps of consume approach and \"In the Prematurely Cloned Age of One Planet\" (2003) that questiones the ethics of current medical science. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "54050493", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54050493", "title": "Royal Female School of Art", "text": "Royal Female School of Art\n\nThe Royal Female School of Art was a professional institution for the training of women in fine art. It was founded in 1842, and was known by several names and was housed in various locations in London, including Queen Square and Gower Street, before being merged with The Central School of Arts and Crafts.\n\nNotable students and faculty included:\n\nThe Royal Female School of Art Foundation continues to work to support students accessing art education.\n\n"}
{"id": "1357359", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1357359", "title": "Sand mandala", "text": "Sand mandala\n\nSand Mandala (; ) is a Tibetan Buddhist tradition involving the creation and destruction of mandalas made from coloured sand. A sand mandala is ritualistically dismantled once it has been completed and its accompanying ceremonies and viewing are finished to symbolize the Buddhist doctrinal belief in the transitory nature of material life.\n\nHistorically, the mandala was not created with natural, dyed sand, but granules of crushed coloured stone. In modern times, plain white stones are ground down and dyed with opaque inks to achieve the same effect. The monks use a special, extremely dense sand in order to limit interference by things like wind or sneezes. Before laying down the sand, the monks assigned to the project will draw the geometric measurements associated with the mandala. The sand granules are then applied using small tubes, funnels, and scrapers, called chak-pur, until the desired pattern over-top is achieved. Sand mandalas traditionally take several weeks to build due to the large amount of work involved in laying down the sand in such intricate detail. It is common that a team of monks will work together on the project, creating one section of the diagram at a time, working from the centre outwards.\n\nThe Kalachakra Mandala for instance, contains 722 deities portrayed within the complex structure and geometry of the mandala itself. Other smaller mandalas, like the one attributed to Vajrabhairava contain significantly fewer deities and require less geometry, but still take several days to complete. Like all mandalas, these are meant as two-dimensional representations of what is supposed to be a three-dimensional environment. Various buildings have been suggested to be three-dimensional mandalas such as: Borobodur in Java, Indonesia, and the Bayon in Siem Reap, Cambodia, although no academic consensus on either has yet been reached.\n\nMany sand mandala contain a specific outer locality which is clearly identified as a charnel ground.\n\nThe colours for the painting are usually made with naturally coloured sand, crushed gypsum (white), yellow ochre, red sandstone, charcoal, and a mixture of charcoal and gypsum (blue). Mixing red and black can make brown, red and white make pink. Other colouring agents include corn meal, flower pollen, or powdered roots and bark.\n\nThe destruction of a sand mandala is also highly ceremonial. Even the deity syllables are removed in a specific order along with the rest of the geometry until at last the mandala has been dismantled. The sand is collected in a jar which is then wrapped in silk and transported to a river (or any place with moving water), where it is released back into nature. This symbolizes the ephemerality of life and the world.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43937197", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43937197", "title": "Sankarabharanam (1980 film)", "text": "Sankarabharanam (1980 film)\n\nSankarabharanam () is a 1980 Indian Telugu-language musical drama film written and directed by K. Viswanath. Produced by Edida Nageswara Rao under the production company Poornodaya Art Creations, \"Sankarabharanam\" starred J. V. Somayajulu, Manju Bhargavi, Chandramohan and Rajyalakshmi. The soundtrack was composed by K. V. Mahadevan and remained a chartbuster. The film throws light on the chasm between Classical and Western Music based on the perspective of people from two different generations. The film was screened at the 8th International Film Festival of India, the Tashkent Film Festival, Asia Pacific Film Festival and the Moscow International Film Festival held in May 1980.\nThe film has also won the Prize of the Public at the Besançon Film Festival of France in the year 1981. For the April 2013 centennial of Indian cinema, CNN-India included \"Sankarabharanam\" on its list of \"100 greatest Indian films of all time\", while \"Forbes\" included J. V. Somayajulu's performance in the film on its list of \"25 Greatest Acting Performances of Indian Cinema\". The film has received four National Film Awards including the National Film Award for Best Film with Mass Appeal, Wholesome Entertainment & Aesthetic Values, and five state Nandi Awards. The film was also dubbed in Tamil and Malayalam under the same title.\nThe film begins with an introduction by Viswanath in the form of a Sanskrit Subhashita शिशुर्वेत्ति पशुर्वेत्ति वेत्ति गानरसं फणिः (Music is enjoyed equally well by babies, animals and even snakes). We hope you appreciate our effort in bringing you the 'Jeeva Dhara' (Lifestream) of Indian classical music.\"\n\n\"Sankarabharanam\" Sankara Sastri is a very popular Carnatic singer and a widower. People come in huge numbers to listen to his voice and consider him a great man. He has mastered the raga \"Shankarabharanam\" and hence is eponymous with the same. Tulasi, (Manju Bhargavi) is a Dasi's daughter who has great interest in music and dance. She is also an admirer of Sastri, and goes to the riverbank in the early mornings when Sastri typically taught his own daughter.\n\nOne morning Tulasi is so thrilled by Sastri's singing that she begins dancing on the riverbank, oblivious of her surroundings. Sastri sees her, and Tulasi also comes to her senses — and abruptly stops, expecting Sastri's rebuke. But Sastri reciprocates her sincerity and continues singing — Thus is born an unspoken, platonic teacher-student relationship between the young dancer and the veteran singer. This bond, bound to be misunderstood by a callous world, forms the crux of the story.\n\nTulasi's mother, of course, wants her to follow in the family profession by servicing rich clients. The mother is waiting for the opportune time to introduce her daughter to prostitution, and one day she extracts a high price from a rich hedonist who's eager to be Tulasi's \"first\". That man forces himself on Tulasi. The foul deed done, the man sees a photo of Sastri in Tulasi's room and flings it to the ground while telling her that she's free to become the old Sastri's girlfriend now since he's done with her. Tulasi, quiet until then, is ostensibly more hurt by the insult to Sastri, her guru, than the crime perpetrated on herself. She takes a shard of glass from the broken frame of Sastri's photo, and stabs the client.\n\nA murder trial ensues, and Sastri tries to save Tulasi by consulting his lawyer brother (Allu Ramalingaiah), who wins the case in Tulasi's favour. Justice comes through as Tulasi's mother is sent to jail for unlawful flesh trade, while Tulasi is a free but homeless woman. Sastri brings Tulasi to his home — precipitating changes in his own life. The public, of course, assume that Sastri is keeping Tulasi at home as a mistress — and avoid him as a debauchee. Even Sastri's maid and musical accompanists, who until then grudgingly bore the maestro's mentoring of \"that prostitute's daughter\", openly rebel and leave. Tulasi feels responsible for Sastri's troubles, and eventually moves out of his house.\n\nSastri's problems are not all due to Tulasi, however. The winds of change have made classical music wane in popularity, while pop music is on the ascendant. Sastri loses his loyal audience and, with it, his comfortable lifestyle. Ten years pass, and Sastri is living in a small house with his grown up daughter. Meanwhile, by a quirk of fate, Tulasi has inherited her mother's property that was under litigation until then. She wants to help the struggling Sastri anonymously. Tulasi has a ten-year-old son by then, ostensibly from her one-&-only conjugal encounter, and wishes that her son redeems his life by becoming Sastri's student — A chance she desperately wanted for herself, but was denied by Fate. So Tulasi gets her son to pretend to be homeless, and enter Sastri's household as a servant boy — and to earn his trust. Things go according to plan, and Tulasi is content to watch from a distance as her son gradually becomes a part of Sastri's household, and then his musical protege.\n\nPamulaparti Venkata Kameswara Rao (Chandramohan), a dilettante Niyogi Brahmin boy, falls in love with Sastri's daughter. Although Sastri rejects the alliance at first, he later agrees after learning of the man's interest in classical music. Tulasi then arranges for a concert on the day of Sastri's daughter's wedding, where Sastri finds his lost audience return to hear his voice. Sastri sings at the concert, but suffers a heart attack part-way through it. Then his disciple, Tulasi's son, takes over from the sidelines and continues singing the song.. As Sastri watches his student with pride, he also sees Tulasi at the side of the hall, and realizes (via eye contact with his lawyer brother) that the boy is Tulasi's son. A doctor is brought to attend to Sastri, who is on stage clutching his chest with pain, but Sastri waves off the physician, knowing that his end is near. As Tulasi's son completes the song, Sastri symbolically anoints the boy as heir to his music, then dies — Tulasi comes running to her guru at that moment, and falls down at his feet — Moments later we realize that she too has died with the shock of Sastri's death. The film ends in this tragic but uplifting note, as the newly-weds Chandra Mohan & Sastri's daughter take charge of Tulasi's son.\n\n\nAfter hearing the plot, the producers were initially taken aback due to the parallel cinema tone to the subject matter, but finally Edida Nageswara Rao agreed to produce the film. He wanted Akkineni Nageswara Rao to enact the role of Sankara Sastry, K. Viswanath wanted Sivaji Ganesan to perform the role, but couldn't approach him for various reasons and also wanted Krishnam Raju for the role, but later refused as Viswanath felt his image as a star would ruin the role and he finally chosen a debutant J. V. Somayajulu, a stage artist for the role. Vamsy, who went on to direct films like \"Sitaara\", \"Anveshana\" and \"Ladies Tailor\" was one of the assistant directors in the film.\n\nThe music, largely Carnatic based, was composed by K.V. Mahadevan.\nM. Balamuralikrishna was the original choice for the male playback singer, due to the heavy classical content of the compositions. But K. V. Mahadevan, having faith in the mettle of S. P. Balasubrahmanyam, insisted on him taking up this challenge.\n\nReleased on 2 February 1980, the film was released in only a very few theatres and opened to almost empty halls. However, due to positive word-of-mouth, the film opened to packed houses and had a 216-day run at Royal theatre, Hyderabad.\n\nThe success of this film triggered a sequence of classical films in Telugu, including \"Saptapadi\", \"Tyagayya\" (by Bapu), \"Meghasandesam\" (by Dasari N. Rao), and Viswanath's own follow-ups: \"Saagara Sangamam\", \"Sruthi Layalu\", \"Swarna Kamalam\",\"Swayam Krushi\", \"Sirivennela\", and \"Swati Kiranam\". \"S.P. Balasubrahmanyam\", the Telugu playback singer who rendered all the songs of Sastri's character, has often said this movie was the highlight of his career. It got 'SPB' his first National Award, and made him a household name across all of South India. Film critic Gudipoodi Srihari called it as the best Telugu film he has seen after \"Mayabazar\". Viswanath later remade the film in Hindi as \"Sur Sangam\" with Girish Karnad, and Jaya Prada in the lead roles.\n"}
{"id": "14024389", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14024389", "title": "StudioEIS", "text": "StudioEIS\n\nStudioEIS (pronounced \"Studio Ice\") is a sculpture and design studio in Brooklyn, New York, United States. It specializes in \"visual storytelling\" — the production of figurative sculpture in bronze, stone, and resin for narrative exhibitions at cultural institutions, museums, and corporations worldwide.\n\nStudioEIS was founded in 1977 by New York City natives Ivan Schwartz (BFA Boston University College of Fine Arts) and Elliot Schwartz (BFA California Institute of the Arts, MFA Yale University). It pioneered the design and production of innovative figurative sculptures for use as visual storytelling elements within museum settings during the 1970s. When the company was founded, museum displays were \"peopled\" by store mannequins. With growing resistance to using mass-produced mannequins for exhibitions, and with many museums eliminating staff positions, StudioEIS found a niche for itself in the world of narrative storytelling for museums. With the American Bicentennial at hand and a renewed interest in history, numerous museums were established across the country to address topics as diverse as civil rights, Native American history, and science and technology. This confluence of talent and need created the initial impetus for StudioEIS' work.\n\nMuseums large and small began out-sourcing displays via exhibition designers, and called upon StudioEIS to create lifelike sculptures to tell stories about American culture and its political history in vivid ways that put a face to history. StudioEIS' early commissions, for the National Civil Rights Museum and the American Museum of Natural History, were figurative, life-sized, and designed to engage the museum visitor.\n\nWith a growing reputation, StudioEIS began to work outside the museum world where innovative object making through visual storytelling was born at StudioEIS. The studio now began to work with architects, industrial and scenic designers, restaurant designers, and hotel/casino designers. Sony, the Bellagio Hotel and Casino in Las Vegas, Nike's flagship stores in Portland and Chicago, The Discovery Channel, and Martha Stewart Living are among its many corporate clients. StudioEIS' sculptures have been on display outside the United States in Mexico, Japan, Taiwan, Italy, Hong Kong, and Abu Dhabi.\n\nThe prominence of the studio grew as it became especially well known for its bronze portrait sculptures and public works, which have included sculptures of iconic figures, such as Franklin D. Roosevelt, Elvis Presley, Albert Einstein, Frederick Douglass and 42 bronze Founding Fathers at the National Constitution Center - which may be the largest bronze sculpture project of its type in American history. The distinguished portrait sculptures created by StudioEIS are featured in important cultural institutions such as The Smithsonian's National Museum of African American History, The National WWII Museum in New Orleans, The Museum of the American Revolution in Philadelphia and The American Museum of Natural History in New York City. StudioEIS' expertise has been called upon for high-profile \"forensic\" reconstruction projects for George Washington's Mount Vernon Estate and Gardens, the exhibition \"Written in Bone\" at the National Museum of Natural History at the Smithsonian Institution and the exhibition JANE, Starvation, Cannibalism & Endurance at Jamestown for Jamestown and the Smithsonian’s National Museum of Natural History.\n\nToday StudioEIS' staff of sculptors, painters, costumers, researchers, and model-makers is enhanced by specialists in wax works, metal fabrication, and bronze casting. A project will often include collaboration with scholars in anthropology, costume history, and forensic science. The sculptures of George Washington at ages 19, 45 and 57 that were unveiled at Mount Vernon in 2006 involved state-of-the-art forensic research and computer reconstruction.\n\nStudioEIS’ Archive resides at the Briscoe Center of American History at the University of Texas/Austin. It was unveiled in November 2014.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "216352", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=216352", "title": "Sylvia Beach", "text": "Sylvia Beach\n\nSylvia Beach (March 14, 1887 – October 5, 1962), born Nancy Woodbridge Beach, was an American-born bookseller and publisher who lived most of her life in Paris, where she was one of the leading expatriate figures between World War I and II.\n\nShe is known for her Paris bookstore, Shakespeare and Company, where she published James Joyce's controversial book, \"Ulysses\" (1922), and encouraged the publication and sold copies of Hemingway's first book, \"Three Stories and Ten Poems\" (1923).\n\nBeach was born in her father's parsonage in Baltimore, Maryland, United States, on March 14, 1887, the second of three daughters of Sylvester Beach and Eleanor Thomazine Orbison. She had an older sister, Holly, and a younger sister, Cyprian. Although named Nancy after her grandmother Orbison, she later decided to change her name to Sylvia. Her maternal grandparents were missionaries to India, and her father, a Presbyterian minister, was descended from several generations of clergymen. When the girls were young the family lived in Baltimore and in Bridgeton, New Jersey. Then in 1901, the family moved to France upon Sylvester Beach's appointment as assistant minister of the American Church in Paris and director of the American student center.\n\nBeach spent the years 1902-1905 in Paris, returning to New Jersey in 1906 when her father became minister of the First Presbyterian Church of Princeton. Beach made several return trips to Europe, lived for two years in Spain, and worked for the Balkan Commission of the Red Cross. During the last years of the Great War, she was drawn back to Paris to study contemporary French literature.\n\nWhile conducting some research at the Bibliothèque Nationale, Beach found the name of a lending library and bookshop, \"La Maison des Amis des Livres\" at 7 rue de l'Odéon, Paris VI, in a French literary journal. There she was warmly welcomed by the owner who, to her surprise, was a plump fair-haired young woman, Adrienne Monnier. Monnier was wearing a garment that looked like a cross between a peasant’s dress and a nun’s habit, \"with a long full skirt … and a sort of tight-fitting velvet waistcoat over a white silk blouse. She was in gray and white like her bookshop.\" Although Beach was dressed in a Spanish cloak and hat, Monnier knew immediately that she was American. At that first meeting Monnier declared, \"I like America very much\". Beach replied that she liked France very much. They later became lovers and lived together for 36 years until Monnier’s suicide in 1955.\n\nBeach immediately became a member of Monnier’s lending library, and when in Paris she regularly attended the readings by authors such as André Gide, Paul Valéry and Jules Romains. Inspired by the literary life of the Left Bank and by Monnier’s efforts to promote innovative writing, Beach dreamed of starting a branch of Monnier’s book shop in New York that would offer contemporary French works to American readers. Since her only capital was US$3,000 which her mother gave her from her savings, Beach could not afford such a venture in New York. However, Paris rents were much cheaper and the exchange rates favorable, so with Monnier’s help, Beach opened an English language bookstore and lending library that she named Shakespeare and Company. Four years beforehand, Monnier had been among the first women in France to found her own bookstore. Beach's bookstore was located at 8 rue Dupuytren, Paris VI.\nShakespeare and Company quickly attracted both French and American readers - including a number of aspiring writers to whom Beach offered hospitality and encouragement as well as books. As the franc dropped in value and the favorable exchange rate attracted a huge influx of Americans, Beach’s shop flourished and soon needed more space. In May 1921, Shakespeare and Company moved to 12 rue de l'Odéon, just across the street from Monnier’s \"Maison des Amis des Livres\". Shakespeare and Company gained considerable fame after it published James Joyce's \"Ulysses\" in 1922, as a result of Joyce's inability to get an edition out in English-speaking countries. Beach would later be financially stranded when Joyce signed on with another publisher, leaving Beach in debt after bankrolling, and suffering severe losses from, the publication of \"Ulysses\".\n\nShakespeare and Company experienced difficulty throughout the Great Depression of the 1930s, but remained supported by wealthy friends, including Bryher. In 1936 when Beach thought that she would be forced to close her shop, André Gide organized a group of writers into a club called Friends of Shakespeare and Company. Subscribers paid 200 francs a year to attend readings at Shakespeare and Company. Although subscriptions were limited to a select group of 200 people (the maximum number the store could accommodate), the renown of the French and American authors participating in readings during those two years attracted considerable attention to the store. Beach recalled that by then, \"we were so glorious with all these famous writers and all the press we received that we began to do very well in business\". Violette Leduc describes meeting her and the ambiance of the shop in her autobiography \"La Bâtarde\". Shakespeare and Company remained open after the Fall of Paris, but by the end of 1941, Beach was forced to close.\nShe was interned for six months during World War II at Vittel until Tudor Wilkinson managed to secure her release in February 1942. Beach kept her books hidden in a vacant apartment upstairs at 12 rue de l'Odeon. Ernest Hemingway symbolically \"liberated\" the shop in person in 1944, but it never re-opened for business.\n\nIn 1956, Beach wrote \"Shakespeare and Company\", a memoir of the inter-war years that details the cultural life of Paris at the time. The book contains first-hand observations of James Joyce, D. H. Lawrence, Ernest Hemingway, Ezra Pound, T. S. Eliot, Valery Larbaud, Thornton Wilder, André Gide, Leon-Paul Fargue, George Antheil, Robert McAlmon, Gertrude Stein, Stephen Benet, Aleister Crowley, Harry Crosby, Caresse Crosby, John Quinn, Berenice Abbott, Man Ray, and many others.\n\nAfter Monnier's suicide in 1955, Beach had a relationship with Camilla Steinbrugge. Although Beach's income was modest during the last years of her life, she was widely honored for her publication of \"Ulysses\" and her support of aspiring writers during the 1920s. She remained in Paris until her death in 1962, and was buried in Princeton Cemetery. Her papers are archived at Princeton University.\n\nAmerican George Whitman opened a new bookshop in 1951 at a different location in Paris (in the rue de la Bûcherie) originally called \"Le Mistral\", but renamed Shakespeare and Company in 1964 in honor of the late Sylvia Beach. Since his death in 2011, it has been run by his daughter Sylvia Beach Whitman, named after Beach.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2503418", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2503418", "title": "Technical advisor", "text": "Technical advisor\n\nA technical advisor is an individual who is an expert in a particular field of knowledge, hired to provide detailed information and advice to people working in that field. For example, a construction company might hire a technical expert in fluid dynamics to advise them if seeking to move a small water course or a company operating in adventure education will frequently hire technical experts to ensure that their policies and procedures are robust enough to handle the hazards they are going to face.\n\nMovie or television directors, will often hire a technical advisor to ensure that a complicated area is portrayed accurately in the production. For example, a director for a show involving combat aviation might hire one or more current or former combat pilots to serve as technical advisors. Similarly, a period movie may include one or more historians of the period, or eyewitnesses if possible, for the same purpose.\n\nTechnical advisors typically answer to the director. Their expertise adds realism both to the acting and to the setting of a movie. Some advisors for military movies have been known to run miniature boot camps to give actors a first-hand experience of a military setting. Captain Dale Dye is a noted technical advisor and provider of military training for actors through his Warriors, Inc.. The US Army has often provided technical advisors to war films. Nipo T. Strongheart was a noted technical advisor on several movies dealing with Native Americans.\n\nThe British Army have supplied their own brand of technical military advisors to the film industry. Paul Biddiss is one such expert, who has built on a long military career to advise on a multitude of high-profile films and TV series. \n\nTechnical advisors who have become actors include George Kennedy (an Army advisor to the \"Sgt. Bilko\" television show) and John Dierkes (an accountant working for the U.S. Treasury, who provided technical assistance to the makers of \"To the Ends of the Earth\"). A former child actor, Frank Coghlan Jr, enlisted in the U.S. Navy, and later became an advisor to Hollywood on Navy-themed films.\n\nR. Lee Ermey, a former U.S. Marine who became a technical advisor on several Vietnam War films lensed in the Philippines became a lead actor in Stanley Kubrick's \"Full Metal Jacket\" as well as an advisor. Ermey said \"A technical advisor must be a salesman. He's got to be able to sell the producer-director on his way of doing things\" Ermey told of battles with Kubrick over realism, and what could be shown onscreen and be appreciated by a cinema audience. Ermey lost battles over such items as a recruit having concealed a fully loaded magazine in his footlocker rather than a few stray rounds, and the way Marine Corps Drill Instructors hit recruits in the solar plexus rather than slapping their faces. Ermey won over Kubrick in other points of Marine Corps decorum.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "692739", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=692739", "title": "The Fly II", "text": "The Fly II\n\nThe Fly II is a 1989 American science fiction horror film starring Eric Stoltz and Daphne Zuniga. It was directed by Chris Walas as a sequel to the Academy Award-winning film \"The Fly\" (1986), itself a remake of the 1958 film of the same name. Stoltz's character in this sequel is the adult son of Seth Brundle, the scientist-turned-'Brundlefly', played by Jeff Goldblum in the 1986 remake. With the exception of stock footage of Goldblum from the first film, John Getz was the only actor to reprise his role.\n\nSeveral months after the events of \"The Fly\", Veronica Quaife delivers Seth Brundle's child. After giving birth to a squirming larval sac, she dies from shock. The sac then splits open to reveal a seemingly normal baby boy. The child, named Martin Brundle, is raised by Anton Bartok, who is the owner of the company which financed Brundle's teleportation experiments and fully aware of the accident which genetically merged Seth Brundle with a housefly. Martin grows up in a clinical environment. His physical and mental maturity is highly accelerated, and he possesses a genius-level intellect, incredible reflexes, and no need for sleep. He knows he is aging faster than a normal human, but is unaware of the true cause, having been told his father died from the same rapid aging disease.\n\nAt age 3, Martin has the physique of a 10-year-old, and frequently sneaks around and explores the Bartok complex. He finds a room containing laboratory animals, and befriends a dog. The next night, he brings it some of his dinner, only to find it missing. He enters an observation booth overlooking Bay 17. There, scientists have managed to reassemble Brundle's Telepods, but not to duplicate the programming that enabled them to teleport living subjects. An attempt to teleport the dog fails, leaving it horribly deformed. It maims one of the scientists, horrifying young Martin. Two years later, Martin's body has matured to that of a 25-year-old. On his fifth birthday, Bartok presents Martin with a bungalow on the Bartok facility's property. He also offers Martin a job: repair his father's Telepods. He apologizes about the dog and assures Martin that its suffering was brief. When Martin is uneasy about the proposition, Bartok shows him Veronica Quaife's videotapes, which documented Seth Brundle's progress with the Telepods. Seeing his late father describe how the Telepods ostensibly improved and energized his body, Martin accepts Bartok's proposal.\n\nAs he begins work on the Telepods, Martin befriends an employee, Beth Logan. Beth invites Martin to a party at the specimens division, where he learns that the mutated dog is still kept alive and studied. Thinking Beth is aware of the dog's imprisonment, Martin argues with her, leaves the party, and goes to the animal's holding pen. The deformed dog, in terrible pain, still remembers Martin and happily wags its tail at the sight of him before he tearfully euthanizes it with chloroform. Martin is in a sullen mood for a while and denies having anything to do with the dog's death when Bartok questions him about it. Martin reconciles with Beth, and re-arrives at his father's \"eureka\" moment when he realizes the Telepod's computer need to be creative to analyze living flesh. Martin then shows Beth his perfected Telepods by teleporting a kitten without harm. They become lovers and have sex, but Martin begins showing signs of his eventual mutation into a human-fly hybrid. Martin devises a potential cure for his condition, which involves swapping out his mutated genes for healthy human genes. Martin shelves this idea when he realizes the other person would be subject to a grotesque genetic disfigurement.\n\nEventually, Martin learns that Bartok has hidden cameras in his bungalow. Martin breaks into Bartok's records room, where he learns of his father's true fate. Bartok confronts Martin and explains that he's been waiting for his inevitable mutation. He reveals his plan to use Martin's body and the Telepods' potential for genetic manipulation for profit. Martin's insect genes fully awaken and his transformation into a human-insect hybrid begins. He escapes from Bartok Industries. Bartok is unable to use the Telepods, as they are locked by a password. Martin also installed a computer virus which will erase the Telepods' programming if the wrong password is entered. Bartok orders a search for Martin.\n\nMartin goes to Beth and explains the situation. The two flee. They visit Veronica Quaife's old confidant, Stathis Borans, who confirms for Martin that the Telepods are his only chance for a cure. They keep running, but Martin's physical and emotional changes become too much for Beth to handle, and she eventually surrenders them both to Bartok. Without revealing the password, he becomes enveloped in a cocoon. Bartok interrogates Beth for the password. Shortly after, the fully transformed \"Martinfly\" emerges from his cocoon and breaks into Bay 17. He grabs Bartok and forces him to type in the password, which is revealed to be DAD. He then drags Bartok and himself into a Telepod. Martinfly gestures Beth to activate the gene-swapping sequence and, despite Bartok's protests, Beth complies. Martin is restored to a fully human form, while Bartok is transformed into a freakish monster who is now kept in the same cell the dog used to be. In the film's final shot, as the Bartok creature leans towards a dish of food, it notices a fly.\n\n\n\"The Fly II\" grossed $20,021,322 at the US box office and a further $18,881,857 abroad, resulting in worldwide total of $38,903,179.\n\nOn Rotten Tomatoes, the film holds an approval rating of 27% based on , with a weighted average rating of 4.4/10. On Metacritic, which assigns a normalized rating to reviews, the film has a weighted average score of 36 out of 100, based on 15 critics, indicating \"Generally unfavorable reviews\".\n\nJanet Maslin from \"The New York Times\" gave the film a negative review, writing, \"The only respect in which it matches Mr. Cronenberg's \"Fly\" is in its sheer repulsiveness, since this film degenerates into a series of slime-ridden, glop-oozing special effects in its final half hour.\" Richard Harrington from \"The Washington Post\" offered the film similar criticism, calling the film's script \"flat\", and criticized the film's special effects as being \"clumsy\". Author and film critic Leonard Maltin awarded the film a BOMB, his lowest rating, calling the film \"Alternately dull and messy but mostly dull. David Hughes from \"Empire Magazine\" awarded the film 3/4 stars, writing, \"Whilst this fly is not as tightly scripted or keenly directed as its parent, it does have pace, breathless tension and the sort of gross-out effects that rules out kebabs for some time after the credits have rolled.\"\n\nBeginning in March 2015, IDW Publishing released a five-issue comic book miniseries titled \"The Fly: Outbreak\", written by Brandon Seifert. The story is a direct sequel to the events of \"The Fly II\", and features Martin Brundle inadvertently causing a transgenic outbreak while attempting to cure Anton Bartok, to whom he had previously transferred his mutant genes.\n\n"}
{"id": "353317", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=353317", "title": "The Lady and the Unicorn", "text": "The Lady and the Unicorn\n\nThe Lady and the Unicorn () is the modern title given to a series of six tapestries woven in Flanders from wool and silk, from designs (\"cartoons\") drawn in Paris around 1500. The set, on display in the Musée national du Moyen Âge (former Musée de Cluny) in Paris, is often considered one of the greatest works of art of the Middle Ages in Europe.\n\nFive of the tapestries are commonly interpreted as depicting the five senses – taste, hearing, sight, smell, and touch. The sixth displays the words \"À mon seul désir\". The tapestry's meaning is obscure, but has been interpreted as representing love or understanding. Each of the six tapestries depicts a noble lady with the unicorn on her left and a lion on her right; some include a monkey in the scene. The pennants, as well as the armour of the Unicorn and Lion in the tapestry bear the arms of the sponsor, Jean Le Viste, a powerful nobleman in the court of King Charles VII. However, a very recent study of the heraldry appears to lend credence to another hypothesis - previously dismissed - that the real sponsor of the tapestry is Antoine II Le Viste (1470–1534), a descendant of the younger branch of the Le Viste family and an important figure at the court of Charles VIII, Louis XII and François I.\n\nThe tapestries are created in the style of \"mille-fleurs\" (meaning: \"thousand flowers\").\n\nThe tapestries were rediscovered in 1841 by Prosper Mérimée in Boussac castle (owned at the time by the subprefect of the Creuse) where they had been suffering damage from their storage conditions. In 1844 the novelist George Sand saw them and brought public attention to the tapestries in her works at the time (most notably in her novel \"Jeanne\"), in which she correctly dated them to the end of the fifteenth century, using the ladies' costumes for reference. Nevertheless, the artefacts continued to be threatened by damp and mould until 1863, when they were brought to the Thermes de Cluny in Paris. Careful conservation has restored them nearly to their former glory.\n\nThe subject of the tapestries are complex, and scholars \"now (generally) agree that they present a meditation on earthly pleasures and courtly culture, offered through an allegory of the senses.\"\nThe lady stands with one hand touching the unicorn's horn, and the other holding up the pennant. The lion sits to the side and looks on.\n\nThe lady is taking sweets from a dish held by a maidservant. Her eyes are on a parakeet on her upheld left hand. The lion and the unicorn are both standing on their hind legs reaching up to pennants that frame the lady on either side. The monkey is at her feet, eating one of the sweetmeats.\n\nThe lady stands, making a wreath of flowers. Her maidservant holds a basket of flowers within her easy reach. Again, the lion and unicorn frame the lady while holding on to the pennants. The monkey has stolen a flower which he is smelling, providing the key to the allegory.\n\nThe lady plays a portative organ on top of a table covered with an Oriental rug. Her maidservant stands to the opposite side and operates the bellows. The lion and unicorn once again frame the scene holding up the pennants. Just as on all the other tapestries, the unicorn is to the lady's left and the lion to her right - a common denominator to all the tapestries.\n\nThe lady is seated, holding a mirror up in her right hand. The unicorn kneels on the ground, with his front legs in the lady's lap, from which he gazes at his reflection in the mirror. The lion on the left holds up a pennant.\n\nThis tapestry is wider than the others, and has a somewhat different style. The lady stands in front of a tent, across the top of which is written \"À Mon Seul Désir\", an obscure motto, variously interpretable as \"to my only/sole desire\", \"according to my desire alone\"; \"by my will alone\", \"love desires only beauty of soul\", \"to calm passion\". Her maidservant stands to the right, holding open a chest. The lady is placing the necklace she wears in the other tapestries into the chest. To her left is a low bench with a dog sitting on a decorative pillow. It is the only tapestry in which she is seen to smile. The unicorn and the lion stand in their normal spots framing the lady while holding onto the pennants.\n\nThis tapestry has elicited a number of interpretations. One interpretation sees the lady putting the necklace into the chest as a renunciation of the passions aroused by the other senses, and as an assertion of her free will. Another sees the tapestry as representing a sixth sense of understanding (derived from the sermons of Jean Gerson of the University of Paris, \"c.\" 1420). Various other interpretations see the tapestry as representing love or virginity. It is also debated whether the lady in \"À Mon Seul Désir\" is picking up or setting aside the necklace.\n\nIn The Lady with the Unicorn tapestry series, it is generally accepted that the first five tapestries represent the five senses of sight, hearing, taste, smell, and touch. The interpretation of the sixth tapestry, \"À Mon Seul Désir,\" remains uncertain. \nA new proposal suggests that the French words, \"à mon seul désir,\" translate to \"with my unique desire,\" meaning that people are the only species that covet material objects even as we share the five senses with animals. The tapestries appear to be arranged to show that while we share the five senses, we are unique in our want of valuable possessions. In the scenario depicted in the last tapestry, it is unclear whether the lady is taking her necklace from the box held by her maid or putting it away, but that distinction doesn’t matter. The point is that she treasures the golden necklace.\n\nIn the first five tapestries, one or more of the animals are shown utilizing the represented sense along with the women. In \"Sight,\" the unicorn is gazing at itself in a mirror held by the lady. Presumably, all of the animals can hear the music being played by the women in the \"Hearing\" tapestry. In \"Taste,\" a monkey is eating a sweetmeat as the lady takes a sweet from a bowl held by her maid, and in \"Smell,\" the monkey is sniffing a flower as the lady assembles a flower wreath. The \"Touch\" tapestry features the lady's hand touching the unicorn's horn. In the final tapestry, only the two women are engaged in handling the necklace, while some of the animals seem to watch from afar.\nThe blue tent in the last tapestry also serves to separate the human figures from the natural world, which includes the unicorn with its mythical qualities. The tent frames the lady handling her necklace with a strip of cloth and her maid and is not present in any of the previous tapestries. In all of the tapestries except \"Smell,\" a falcon, sometimes wearing jesses, is hunting another bird. In the sixth tapestry, this occurs above and outside of the tent and may represent hunting as another trait or proclivity shared between people and animals.\n\nThe interpretation of people alone valuing material objects ties the individual representations of the six tapestries together and allows them to flow towards the realization that, while people may live alongside the natural and mythical worlds (which, in medieval times, were likely considered the same), they remain separate and not completely in either due to their unique desires.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6610579", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6610579", "title": "The School of Panamerican Unrest", "text": "The School of Panamerican Unrest\n\nThe School of Panamerican Unrest \"(La Escuela Panamericana del Desasosiego)\" is a conceptual art project led by Mexican artist Pablo Helguera. The project involves a series of performances, discussions and screenings to seek connections between the different regions of the Americas. The core of the project consisted of a travelling schoolhouse which made 30 stops between the U.S. state of Alaska and Chile's Antártica Chilena province between May and September 2006, following the entire length of the Pan-American Highway. At each stop topics such as immigration, globalization and the role of art in society were examined as they relate to Pan-American culture, history and ideology. The project echoes the efforts of intellectuals such as José Marti, Simón Bolívar and José Vasconcelos to create a unified cultural region in the Americas. The project began with an interview of Marie Smith Jones, the last living speaker of Eyak, a Native Alaskan language; and ended with an interview with Cristina Calderón, the last living speaker of Yaghan, in Puerto Williams, Tierra del Fuego. Currently a travelling exhibition and accompanying documentary are being planned, bringing together the documentation obtained during the project.\n\n"}
{"id": "57694111", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57694111", "title": "The Writer Will Do Something", "text": "The Writer Will Do Something\n\nThe Writer Will Do Something is an interactive fiction video game written by Matthew S. Burns and Tom Bissell and created using Twine.\n\nThe game was originally written in 2015 by Matthew S. Burns and Tom Bissell. Bissell had previously worked on AAA franchises such as \"Gears of War\" and \"\". Burns aimed to explain to video gaming fans how chaotic and difficult a creative project can be, as he felt critics and fans would often wonder \"why didn't the devs just do this\" when he felt there were barriers that prevented that which would be explained through this behind-the-curtain look.\n\nFrom its release to August 2015, the game was played 38,000 times. Players questioned whether developers would be so rude to each other, while developers deemed the game a documentary.\n\nIt tells the story of a video game writer sitting through a meeting about a AAA game – the third in the fictional \"ShatterGate\" franchise – which is having issues after receiving negative feedback and with a looming E3 date. The game exudes an air of \"weary pain\", and aims to explore the \"debilitating pressure of high-budget videogame writing\".\n\nGameplay sees the player click on the text to view the next text screen. There is limited interactivity with options at various points for what the player should say – ranging from placing blame on others or taking the blame themselves. It has been described as a choose-your-own-adventure.\n\n\"Waypoint\" deemed the game a \"painfully accurate satire of the role video game writing takes place in video games.\" \"Ars Technica\" deemed it a \"gripping, well-constructed work\" and outlined what it saw as the game's thesis statement: \"No one sets out to make a bad game, but bad games still get made all the time.\" Meanwhile, \"Rock, Paper, Shotgun\" felt it was a \"mix of sharp social observation and collective embarrassment\". \"Kill Screen\" compared the game's keen sense of auteur status to those of \"Cibele\", \"The Beginner's Guide\", and \"Emily Is Away\", and further described it as a \"PTSD flashback\" with circular arguments and no clear solution. \"Wired\" suggested that to video game players, this is a clever way for them to break their rose-tinted glasses of how their favourite games get made. \"Gamasutra\" noted that while there are practical guides, blogs and talks available to teach aspiring writers how to write video games, this is a rare interactive experience that demonstrates what it is actually 'like' to write a video game, likening it to \"Empathy Machines\" as defined by Liz England.\n\nThe game received an honorable mention in the \"Excellence in Narrative\" category at the 2016 IGF awards.\n\n"}
{"id": "27956375", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27956375", "title": "Theatre IV", "text": "Theatre IV\n\n\"For information about the professional theatre company in Richmond, see Virginia Repertory Theatre.\n\nTheatre IV (now Virginia Repertory Theatre) merged with Barksdale Theatre in 2012 to become Virginia Repertory Theatre. In 1975, Theatre IV was founded by Bruce Miller and Phil Whiteway, becoming the state's first professional theatre for young audiences. It began as a touring company, performing around the nation at elementary schools and recreation centers and became the second largest children's theatre in the nation and the largest in-school touring theatre company in the nation.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12514554", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12514554", "title": "Toadstone", "text": "Toadstone\n\nThe toadstone, also known as bufonite, is a mythical stone or gem that was thought to be found in the head of a toad. It was supposed to be an antidote to poison and in this it is not unlike batrachite, supposedly formed in the heads of frogs. Toadstones were actually the button-like fossilized teeth of \"Lepidotes\", an extinct genus of ray-finned fish from the Jurassic and Cretaceous periods. They appeared to be \"stones that are perfect in form\" and were set by European jewellers into magical rings and amulets from Medieval times until the 18th century.\n\nFrom ancient times people associated the fossils with jewels that were set inside the heads of toads. The toad has poison glands in its skin, so it was naturally assumed that they carried their own antidote and that this took the form of a magical stone. They were first recorded by Pliny the Elder in the first century.\n\nAccording to Paul Taylor of the London Natural History Museum:\n\nThe true toadstone was taken by contemporary jewellers to be no bigger than the nail of a hand and they varied in colour from a whitish brown through green to black, depending on where they were buried. They were supposedly most effective against poison when worn against the skin, on which occasion they were thought to heat up, sweat and change colour. If a person was bitten by a venomous creature a toadstone would be touched against the affected part to effect a cure. Alternatively Johannes de Cuba, in his book \"Hortus sanitatis\", claimed that toadstone would help with kidney disease and earthly happiness.\n\nLoose toadstones were discovered among other gemstones in the Elizabethan Cheapside Hoard and there are surviving toadstone rings in the Ashmolean Museum and the British Museum.\n\nThe toadstone is alluded to by Duke Senior in Shakespeare's \"As You Like It\" (1599), in Act 2, Scene 1, lines 12 through 14:\n\nSweet are the uses of adversity; \nWhich, like the toad, ugly and venomous, \nWears yet a precious jewel in his head.\nIn James Branch Cabell's short story \"Balthazar's Daughter\" (collected in \"The Certain Hour\") and its subsequent play adaptation \"The Jewel Merchants\", Alessandro de Medici attempts to seduce Graciosa by listing various precious jewels in his possession, including \"jewels cut from the brain of a toad\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37166084", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37166084", "title": "Various authors", "text": "Various authors\n\nThe expression \"various authors,\" abbreviated with the acronym Vv.Aa., is rarely used in English except by non-native speakers, who look for an exact equivalent to similar terms (usually abbreviated Aa.Vv.) in Italian, Spanish, and some other languages. In English it is much more common to describe the authors of such a compilation collectively, for example by saying for what occasion the texts were written or by naming one writer, for example the first one in the alphabet, and then adding \"et al.\" The expansion of the acronym is the Latin expression \"auctores varii\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1061167", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1061167", "title": "Verse drama and dramatic verse", "text": "Verse drama and dramatic verse\n\nVerse drama is any drama written as verse to be spoken; another possible general term is poetic drama. For a very long period, verse drama was the dominant form of drama in Europe (and was also important in non-European cultures). Greek tragedy and Racine's plays are written in verse, as is almost all of Shakespeare's drama, Ben Jonson, John Fletcher and others like Goethe's \"Faust\".\n\nVerse drama is particularly associated with the seriousness of tragedy, providing an artistic reason to write in this form, as well as the practical one that verse lines are easier for the actors to memorize exactly. In the second half of the twentieth century verse drama fell almost completely out of fashion with dramatists writing in English (the plays of Christopher Fry and T. S. Eliot being possibly the end of a long tradition).\n\nDramatic verse occurs in a dramatic work, such as a play, composed in poetic form. The tradition of dramatic verse extends at least as far back as ancient Greece.\n\nThe English Renaissance saw the height of dramatic verse in the English-speaking world, with playwrights such as Ben Jonson, Christopher Marlowe and William Shakespeare developing new techniques, both for dramatic structure and poetic form. Though a few plays, such as \"A Midsummer Night's Dream\", feature extended passages of rhymed verse, the majority of dramatic verse is composed as blank verse; there are also passages of prose.\n\nDramatic verse began to decline in popularity in the nineteenth century, when the prosaic and conversational styles of playwrights such as Henrik Ibsen became more prevalent, and were adapted in English by George Bernard Shaw. Verse drama did have a role in the development of Irish theatre.\n\nAn important trend from around 1800 was the closet drama: a verse drama intended to be read from the page, rather than performed. Lord Byron and Shelley, as well as a host of lesser figures, devoted much time to the closet drama, in a signal that the verse tragedy was already in a state of obsolescence. That is, while poets of the eighteenth century could write so-so poetic dramas, the public taste for new examples was already moving away by the start of the nineteenth century, and there was little commercial appeal in staging them.\n\nInstead, opera would take up verse drama, as something to be sung: it is still the case that a verse libretto can be successful. Verse drama as such, however, in becoming closet drama, became simply a longer poetic form, without the connection to practical theatre and performance. \n\nAccording to Robertson Davies in \"A Voice From the Attic\", closet drama is \"Dreariest of literature, most second hand and fusty of experience!\". But indeed a great deal of it was written in Victorian times, and afterwards, to the extent that it became a more popular long form at least than the faded epic. Prolific in the form were, for example, Michael Field and Gordon Bottomley.\n\nDramatic poetry is any poetry that uses the discourse of the characters involved to tell a story or portray a situation. \n\nThe major types of dramatic poetry are those already discussed, to be found in plays written for the theatre, and libretti. There are further dramatic verse forms: these include dramatic monologues, such as those written by Robert Browning and Alfred Tennyson and William Shakespeare.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33121", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33121", "title": "Wings of Desire", "text": "Wings of Desire\n\nWings of Desire () is a 1987 romantic fantasy film directed by Wim Wenders. The film is about invisible, immortal angels who populate Berlin and listen to the thoughts of its human inhabitants, comforting those who are in distress. Even though the city is densely populated, many of the people are isolated or estranged from their loved ones. One of the angels, played by Bruno Ganz, falls in love with a beautiful, lonely trapeze artist, played by Solveig Dommartin. The angel chooses to become mortal so that he can experience human sensory pleasures, ranging from enjoying food to touching a loved one, and so that he can discover human love with the trapeze artist.\n\nInspired by art depicting angels visible around West Berlin, at the time enclaved by the Berlin Wall, Wenders and author Peter Handke conceived of the story and continued to develop the screenplay throughout the French and German co-production. The film was shot by Henri Alekan in both colour and a sepia-toned black-and-white, the latter being used to represent the world as seen by the angels. The cast includes Otto Sander, Curt Bois and Peter Falk.\n\nFor \"Wings of Desire\", Wenders won awards for Best Director at both the Cannes Film Festival and European Film Awards. The film was a critical and financial success, and academics have interpreted it as a statement of the importance of cinema, libraries, the circus, or German unity, containing New Age, religious, secular or other themes.\n\nIt was followed by a sequel, \"Faraway, So Close!\", released in 1993. \"City of Angels\", a U.S. remake, was released in 1998. In 1990, numerous critics named \"Wings of Desire\" as one of the best films of the 1980s.\n\nIn a Berlin divided by the Berlin Wall, two angels, Damiel and Cassiel, watch the city, unseen and unheard by its human inhabitants. They observe and listen to the thoughts of Berliners, including a pregnant woman in an ambulance on the way to the hospital, a young prostitute standing by a busy road, and a broken man who feels betrayed by his wife. Their \"raison d'être\" is, as Cassiel says, to \"assemble, testify, preserve\" reality. Damiel and Cassiel have always existed as angels; they were in Berlin before it was a city, and before there were any humans.\n\nAmong the Berliners they encounter in their wanderings is an old man named Homer, who dreams of an \"epic of peace\". Cassiel follows the old man as he looks for the then-demolished Potsdamer Platz in an open field, and finds only the graffiti-covered Wall. Although Damiel and Cassiel are pure observers, visible only to children, and incapable of any interaction with the physical world, Damiel begins to fall in love with a profoundly lonely circus trapeze artist named Marion. She lives by herself in a caravan in West Berlin, until she receives the news that her group, the Circus Alekan, will be closing down. Depressed, she dances alone to the music of Crime & the City Solution, and drifts through the city.\nMeanwhile, actor Peter Falk arrives in West Berlin to make a film about the city's Nazi past. Falk was once an angel, who, having grown tired of always observing and never experiencing, renounced his immortality to become a participant in the world. Also growing weary of infinity, Damiel's longing is for the genuineness and limits of human existence. He meets Marion in a dream, and is surprised when Falk senses his presence and tells him about the pleasures of human life.\n\nDamiel is finally persuaded to shed his immortality. He experiences life for the first time: he bleeds, sees colours, tastes food and drinks coffee. Meanwhile, Cassiel taps into the mind of a young man just about to commit suicide by jumping off a building. Cassiel tries to save the young man but is unable to do so, and is left tormented by the experience. Sensing Cassiel's presence, Falk reaches out to him as he had Damiel, but Cassiel is unwilling to follow their example. Eventually, Damiel meets the trapeze artist Marion at a bar during a concert by Nick Cave and the Bad Seeds, and she greets him and speaks about finally finding a love that is serious and can make her feel complete. The next day, Damiel considers how his time with Marion taught him to feel amazed, and how he has gained knowledge no angel is capable of achieving.\n\nAfter living and working in the United States for eight years, director Wim Wenders returned to his native West Germany and wished to reconnect to it with a film about his favourite part of it, West Berlin. Planning to make \"Until the End of the World\" in 1985, he realised the project would not be ready for two years, and wishing to return to photography as soon as possible, he considered another project.\n\nRainer Maria Rilke's poetry partially inspired the story. Wenders claimed angels seemed to dwell in Rilke's poetry, and the director had also jotted \"angels\" in his notes one day, and noted angel-themed artwork in cemeteries and around Berlin. In his treatment, Wenders also considered a backstory in which God exiled his angels to Berlin as punishment for defending humans after 1945, when God had decided to forsake them.\n\nWenders employed Peter Handke, who wrote much of the dialogue, the poetic narrations, and the film's recurring poem \"Song of Childhood\". Wenders found the names Damiel and Cassiel in an encyclopedia about angels, and also had photographs of Solveig Dommartin, Bruno Ganz and Otto Sander that served as muses. The idea that angels could read minds led to Wenders considering personal dialogue no one would say aloud. Wenders did not view the angel protagonist as representative of himself, instead deciding the angel could be an embodiment of film, and that the purpose of film could be to help people by opening their eyes to possibilities. Handke did not feel able to write a single coherent story, but promised to regularly send notes on ideas during production. Screenwriter Richard Reitinger also assisted Wenders in scripting scenes around Handke's contributions.\n\nGiven the nature of this arrangement, Wenders would hold daily meetings with his crew, frequently at late hours, to plan the logistics for the following day. French producer Anatole Dauman did not see a large budget as necessary, and the project was funded with 5 million DM.\n\nWenders believed it would be important for the actors playing the two main angel characters to be familiar and friendly with each other. Ganz and Sander had performed in some of the same stage productions for 20 years. Sander and Ganz also recommended Curt Bois to Wenders and asked Bois to perform. Bois' performance as Homer marked his final feature film in an 80-year career, beginning as a child actor.\n\nPeter Falk's role was not planned until photography had already begun, with Wenders planning an artist or political official to have an analogous role until assistant Claire Denis suggested the \"Columbo\" star would be familiar to everyone. Falk described the part as \"the craziest thing that I've ever been offered\", but quickly agreed. He was accustomed to the improvisation the newly created role required, and when Wenders and Falk met, they conceived ideas of the character sketching and searching for a hat. Nick Cave and his band were based in West Berlin, with Wenders calling him \"a real Berlin hero\" and deciding \"It was inconceivable for me to make a film in Berlin without showing one of his concerts\".\n\nThe film was shot by Henri Alekan, whose cinematography represents the angels' point of view in monochrome, as they cannot see colours, and switches to colour to show the human point of view. During filming, Alekan used a very old and fragile silk stocking that had belonged to his grandmother as a filter for the monochromatic sequences, adding a touch of sepia to the black and white. Wenders felt it was natural that angels without experience of the physical world would not see colour, and also thought black-and-white cinematography by Alekan would provide a novel view of Berlin.\n\nA challenge in the cinematography was posed by using the camera for the perception of angels, as angels are not restrained in how far they can observe, in any dimension. The story's Circus Alekan is named in the cinematographer's honour.\n\nFilming took place at actual locations in West Berlin, such as Hans Scharoun's Berlin State Library, though the Wall was recreated in studio, due to shooting the true Wall being outlawed. Some pieces of the recreation were made from inexpensive wood, with one being destroyed by rain during production.\n\nWith little idea of how to portray the angels and no costume design, Wenders said the filmmakers consulted artwork, experimented, and found the idea of armor during production, and told U.S. filmmaker Brad Silberling they did not decide on overcoats until later. The hairstyle was loosely inspired by a photograph of a Japanese warrior.\n\nAlthough the circus scenes required extensive and risky acrobatics, Dommartin was able to learn the trapeze and rope moves in a mere eight weeks, and did all the work herself, without a stunt double. During production, the filmmakers called German police after Falk went missing. Falk had been spending hours exploring West Berlin and was discovered in a café.\n\nPeter Handke arrived in West Berlin during the editing process, led by Peter Przygodda. Handke believed it bordered on a silent film, aside from some music, and lacked much of the notes he had sent to Wenders during filming. Handke thus proposed adding his writings via voice-over. After Falk left Berlin, he recorded much of his voice-over in a sound studio in Los Angeles. Much of this was improvised, though Wenders still supervised by telephone.\n\nWith the filming performed in lengthy takes, and the camera used as \"the eye of the angel\", much of the movement was conveyed in the camerawork rather than in editing effects. There was five hours of footage to edit down to the final cut. A pie fight between the stars was filmed for the final scene, but later edited out.\n\nComposer Jürgen Knieper assumed harps and violins would suffice for a score for a film about angels, until he saw a cut of the film. Seeing the angels were discontent, he wrote a different score employing a choir, voices and whistling. Laurent Petitgand contributed the circus music, an ensemble work performed with accordions, saxophones and keyboards.\n\nThe concept of angels, spirits or ghosts who help humans on Earth had been common in cinema, from \"Here Comes Mr. Jordan\" (1941) and the 1946 works \"It's a Wonderful Life\" and \"A Matter of Life and Death\". Many earlier U.S. and U.K. films demonstrate high amounts of reverence, while others allow reasonable amounts of fun. Powell and Pressburger's \"A Matter of Life and Death\" presents an early example of spirits being jealous of the lives of humans. The shift from monochrome to colour, to distinguish the angels' reality from that of the mortals, was also used in Powell and Pressburger's film. While \"Wings of Desire\" does not portray Berliners as living in a utopia, academic Roger Cook wrote that the fact that people have pleasure \"gives, as the English title suggests, wings to desire\".\n\nGod is not mentioned in the film, and is only referred to in the sequel \"Faraway, So Close!\" when the angels state a purpose to connect humans with \"Him\". Scholars Robert Phillip Kolker and Peter Beickene attributed the apparent lack of God to New Age beliefs, remarking Damiel's \"fall\" is similar to the story of Lucifer, though not related to evil. Reviewer Jeffrey Overstreet concurred that \"Wenders had left his church upbringing behind\", and the cinematic angels are \"inventions he could craft to his specifications\", with little regard for biblical beliefs. Overstreet characterized them as \"whimsical metaphors, characters who have lost the joy of sensual human experience\". Nevertheless, Professor Craig Detweiler believed the sky-level view of Berlin and the idea of guardian angels evoke God. Authors Martin Brady and Joanne Leal added that even if Damiel is tempted by seemingly profane things, the atmosphere of Berlin means the human Damiel is still in \"a place of poetry, myth and religion\".\n\nIn one scene, Damiel and Cassiel meet to share stories in their observations, with their function revealed to be one of preserving the past. Professor Alexander Graf wrote this connects them to cinema, with Wenders noting \"Wings of Desire\" itself depicts or shows places in Berlin that have since been destroyed or altered, including a bridge, Potsdamer Platz and the Wall.\n\nThe closing titles state: \"Dedicated to all the former angels, but especially to Yasujiro, François and Andrej.\" This is a reference to Wenders' fellow filmmakers Yasujirō Ozu, François Truffaut, and Andrei Tarkovsky. These directors had all died before the release of the film, with Kolker and Beickene arguing they were an influence on Wenders: Ozu had taught Wenders order; Truffaut the observation of people, especially youth; and Tarkovsky, a less clear influence on Wenders, consideration of morality and beauty. Identifying directors as angels could tie in with the film characters' function to record.\nAcademic Laura Marcus believed a connection between cinema and print is also established in the angels' affinity for libraries, as Wenders portrays the library as a tool of \"memory, and public space\", making it a miraculous place. The depiction of Damiel, by using a pen or an immaterial pen, to write \"Song of Childhood\", is also tribute to print and literacy, introducing, or as Marcus hypothesized, \"perhaps even releasing, the visual images that follow\". Kolker and Beickene interpreted the use of poetry as part of screenwriter Peter Handke's efforts to elevate language above common rhetoric to the spiritual. Reviewing the poetry, Detweiler remarked that Handke's \"Song of Childhood\" bears parallels to St. Paul's 1 Corinthians 13 (\"When I was a child, I spoke as a child, I understood as a child, I thought as a child ... \"). Professor Terrie Waddell added that the poem established \"centrality of childhood\" as a key theme, noting that the children can see angels and accept them without question, tying them in with the phenomenon of imaginary friends.\n\nThe film has also been read as a call for German reunification, which followed in 1990. Essayists David Caldwell and Paul Rea saw it as presenting a series of two opposites: East and West, angel and human, male and female. Wenders' angels are not bound by the Wall, reflecting East and West Berlin's shared space, though East Berlin remains primarily black and white. Scholar Martin Jesinghausen believed the film presumed reunification would never happen, and contemplated its statements on divides, including territorial and \"higher\" divides, \"physicality and spirituality, art and reality, black and white and colour\".\n\nResearcher Helen Stoddart, in discussing the depiction of the circus and trapeze artist Marion in particular, submitted that Marion is the classic circus character, creating an image of danger and then potential. Stoddart argued that Homer and Marion may find the future in what remains of history found in Berlin. Stoddart considered the circular nature of the story, including a parallel between the angel who cannot see the physical (Damiel), and the faux angel (Marion) who can \"see the faces\". Marion also observes that all directions lead to the Wall, and the final French dialogue \"We have embarked\" while the screen states \"To be continued\", suggests \"final movement to a new beginning\".\n\nBritish Film Institute writer Leigh Singer assessed the cinematic style as \"bold\" and artistic in its use of colour, \"existential voiceover\" and \"languorous pacing\". Singer also commented on the use of symbolism and the combinations of diverse pieces of culture, from the poetry of Rainer Maria Rilke to the music of Nick Cave. In Singer's estimation, the cinematography is able to communicate the angels' \"invisible intimacy and empathy\". Professor Terrie Waddell described the \"dialogue and monologue\" as \"lyrical\", in the mold of Rilke's poetry. Scholar Alexander Graf considered how these voice-overs and verbal exchanges are frequently combined with background radio and television sounds, and concluded the \"image and soundtrack\" that comprise the style convey a point of \"blindness\": \"men and women are plagued by their everyday problems; children are, like the angels, in their own dreamy world\".\n\nProfessor Russell J.A. Kilbourn judged the style as opposed to realism and \"emphatically German\" in looking at particular situations of human life. Authors Martin Brady and Joanne Leal remarked the storytelling shies away from an entirely narrative format, and the film's writing style is embodied in the Homer character as \"the angel of story-telling\". Perception of people becomes key to the storytelling, with Brady and Leal quoting Handke's vision for a new narrative: \"You have only interpreted and changed the world; what matters is to \"describe\" it\". Psychologist Ryan Niemiec wrote that, by focusing on \"the beauty of each moment\", \"Wings of Desire\" conveys \"awe and wonder\".\n\nAs Singer observed, \"Wings of Desire\" serves as a \"Symphony of a city\" in capturing a \"wintry, pre-unification Berlin\". Kilbourn said that the place highlighted in the German title \"Der Himmel über Berlin\", like the desire referenced in the English title, is of great importance, and that the \"frequent angel's-eye-view shots of East and West Berlin\" allows for \"quasi-objective voyeuristic surveillance\". Observing the angels' trench-coat fashion, sociologist Andrew Greeley wrote it fit the \"wet, blustery, cold northern Germany\" setting. Looking at the coats and ponytails, Dr. Detweiler found the visualization of the angels \"so cool and stylish\".\n\nMusic is used in differing ways throughout the story. Musicologist Annette Davison argued Knieper's score in angel scenes is artistic, with elements of Eastern European and Orthodox Christian music, and Petitgand's music displays a \"slippery\" harmony frequently heard in circus entertainment. When Marion leaves the Circus Alekan, there is an increase in rock music, particularly by Cave and Crime & the City Solution. Davison submitted this symbolizes \"utopian promise of the sensual mortal world\", and that lyrics echo the plot: Cave's \"The Carny\" suggests a disappearing carnival worker as the Circus Alekan closes, and \"From Her to Eternity\" suggests a desire for a woman's love. Professor Adrian Danks wrote that Cave's rock music symbolized \"the physical, worldly reality of Berlin\", with \"The Carny\" adding a feel of sorrow in the background, while Marion gives \"breathy accompaniment\".\n\nThe film debuted at the Cannes Film Festival on 17 May 1987. \"Der Himmel über Berlin\" subsequently opened in West Germany late in October 1987. With Orion Classics as its U.S. distributor, it opened in New York City as \"Wings of Desire\" on 29 April 1988 with a PG-13 rating. Sander said that it had a release in Japan, and that while angels do not appear in Japanese mythology, Tokyo audiences would approach him after and share their impressions about the characters.\n\nAfter a videotape printing in Germany in 1988, Kinowelt released a DVD in Germany and Region 2 in 2005. In 2009, The Criterion Collection released the film in Region 1 on DVD and Blu-ray. It later screened at the 65th Berlin International Film Festival in February 2015, to mark Wenders' Honorary Golden Bear.\n\nThe Wim Wenders Foundation produced a digital 4K restoration using the original black-and-white and colour film stock. This new version of the film premiered on 16 February 2018 during the 68th Berlin International Film Festival at Kino International, as part of the \"Berlinale Classics\" programme.\n\n\"Der Himmel über Berlin\" had 922,718 admissions in Germany. Under the title \"Les Ailes du désir\", it had a further 1,079,432 admissions in France.\n\nThe film finished its run in North America on 11 May 1989, having grossed $3.2 million, or possibly nearly $4 million, a beneficial investment for Orion. Critic James Monaco assessed the financial performance as above that of typical art films. In 2000, \"Variety\" calculated that it was 48th in the top 50 highest-grossing foreign language films ever released in the U.S., and one of only three in German, along with \"Das Boot\" and \"Run Lola Run\".\n\n\"Wings of Desire\" received \"Two Thumbs Up\" from Gene Siskel and Roger Ebert on \"Siskel & Ebert & The Movies\", where Siskel credited Wenders for a story that \"praises life as it is lived yet making sense of life's confusions\". In \"New York\", David Denby hailed it as \"extraordinary\", and possibly \"the ultimate German movie\". Desson Howe cited it for \"a soaring vision that appeals to the senses and the spirit.\" Janet Maslin, writing for \"The New York Times\", called it \"enchanting\" in its concept, but \"damagingly overloaded\" in execution. In \"Variety\", David Stratton embraced the visuals, the performances and Knieper's score, adding the film also showcased Wenders' taste for rock music. \"The Washington Post\"s Rita Kempley credited Wenders and Handke for crafting a \"whimsical realm of myth and philosophical pretense, dense with imagery and sweetened by Ganz's performance\". Dissenting, Pauline Kael remarked, \"It's enough to make moviegoers feel impotent\". According to online film resource \"They Shoot Pictures, Don't They?\", \"Wings of Desire\" is the most acclaimed film of 1987.\nBy 1990, \"Wings of Desire\" was placed in the top 10 best films of the 1980s by critics David Denby (first), the \"Los Angeles Times\"s Sheila Benson (fourth), \"The Orange County Register\"s Jim Emerson (fifth) and Richard Schickel and Richard Corliss (tenth). \"Premiere\" voted it the second greatest film of the 1980s, after \"Raging Bull\". James Monaco awarded it four and a half stars in his 1992 \"Movie Guide\", praising it as \"A rich, mystical near-masterpiece\". In 1998, Ebert added it to his Great Movies list, championing it for a \"a mood of reverie, elegy and meditation\". \"Empire\" critic Ian Nathan gave it five stars in his 2006 review, hailing it for its poetry, themes of loneliness, and Ganz's acting style. In 2004, \"The New York Times\" included the film on its list of \"the Best 1,000 Movies Ever Made\". On reflecting on Solveig Dommartin's death in 2007, \"Der Spiegel\" recalled the film as a poetic masterpiece. Reviewing the Criterion DVD in 2009, \"Time Out\" critic Joshua Rothkopf called it an introduction to the art film, but also a product of its time, mentioning the songs.\n\nIt was later ranked 64th in \"Empire\" magazine's \"The 100 Best Films Of World Cinema\" in 2010. In 2011, \"The Guardian\" placed it in the 10 best films ever set in Berlin. \"Les Inrockuptibles\"s 2014 review declared it a great film, timeless, and poetic. That year, French critics at \"aVoir-aLire\" also praised its poetry, and said Berlin becomes one of the characters, crediting Alekan, Handke, Cave and Knieper for important contributions. German journalist Michael Sontheimer recommended seeing it to understand how radically Berlin has been altered since the 1980s, particularly looking at the somber images when the human Damiel walks through Berlin. In his \"2015 Movie Guide\", Leonard Maltin awarded it three and a half stars, describing it as \"Haunting\" and \"lyrical\". Jonathan Rosenbaum declared the bulk of the film before Damiel becomes human as \"one of Wenders's most stunning achievements\". In 2017, \"Le Monde\" rated it four stars out of five, citing the aesthetics of its black-and-white photography, poetry and contemplation of history. The German news publication \"Der Tagesspiegel\" recounted the film's memorable imagery in 2016, listing Damiel as an angel and the library scenes. On the 30th anniversary of the Cannes screening, Jessica Ritchey posted on Rogerebert.com that she found it odd to be an atheist and love the film, expressing admiration for the black-and-white photography and the overall message that when the world seems terrible, desire is powerful. The review aggregator \"Rotten Tomatoes\" records that 98% of its cited critics gave the film a positive review.\n\nThe film competed for the Palme d'Or and won for Best Director at the 1987 Cannes Film Festival. In 1988, it won the prestigious Grand Prix of the Belgian Film Critics Association.\n\nIt was submitted by West Germany for consideration for the Academy Award for Best Foreign Language Film, a bid supported by its distribution company. It was not nominated, with the Academy traditionally not recognizing West German cinema.\n\nIn 1993, Wenders made a sequel, \"Faraway, So Close!\", which he found desirable to explore Berlin post-reunification, more so than for the sake of a sequel. In 1998, a U.S. remake directed by Brad Silberling called \"City of Angels\" was released. The setting was moved to Los Angeles and Meg Ryan and Nicolas Cage starred. In 1990, an Indian film in Malayalam, titled \"Njan Gandharvan\" was made by P Padmarajan, with a similar thread. In Prague, Czech Republic, Jean Nouvel designed \"Angel\", a building that features an angel from the film observing the people of the Smíchov district.\n\nA stage adaptation of \"Wings of Desire\" was created by the Northern Stage theatre company in Newcastle upon Tyne, U.K. in 2003. This particular adaptation, which used film footage of the city and stories from the community, was adapted and directed by Alan Lyddiard. In 2006, the American Repertory Theater in Cambridge, Massachusetts, and Toneelgroep Amsterdam presented another stage adaptation, created by Gideon Lester and Dirkje Houtman and directed by Ola Mafaalani.\n\nWenders' story was also an influence on the play \"Angels in America\" by Tony Kushner, in which angels intermingle with troubled mortals. R.E.M.'s music video for \"Everybody Hurts\" also takes cues from the film. \"Wings of Desire\" was possibly Ganz's most remembered role before \"Downfall\" in 2004.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "165703", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=165703", "title": "World Monuments Fund", "text": "World Monuments Fund\n\nWorld Monuments Fund (WMF) is a private, international, non-profit organization dedicated to the preservation of historic architecture and cultural heritage sites around the world through fieldwork, advocacy, grantmaking, education, and training.\n\nFounded in 1965, WMF is headquartered in New York, and has offices and affiliates around the world, including Cambodia, France, Peru, Portugal, Spain, and the United Kingdom. In addition to hands-on management, the affiliates identify, develop, and manage projects, negotiate local partnerships, and attract local support to complement funds provided by donors.\n\nWMF describes its mission as \"to preserve important historic architectural sites and works of art without regard to national boundaries\".\n\nThe \"International Fund for Monuments\" (IFM) was an organization created by Colonel James A. Gray (1909-1994) after his retirement from the U.S. Army in 1960. Gray had conceived of a visionary project to arrest the settlement of the Leaning Tower of Pisa by freezing the soil underneath, and formed the organization in 1965 as a vehicle for the implementation of this idea. Even though this project did not materialize, an opportunity arose for the young organization to participate in the conservation of the rock-hewn churches of Lalibela in Ethiopia. In 1966 Gray secured the support of philanthropist Lila Acheson Wallace (1889-1984), who offered $150,000 to the \"International Fund for Monuments\" and UNESCO for this project. The project continued until the Communist overthrow of Haile Selassie I and the subsequent expulsion of foreigners from Ethiopia. After Ethiopia, Gray's interests shifted to Easter Island (Rapa Nui) in Chile. Gray formed the \"Easter Island Committee\", with Norwegian ethnographer and adventurer Thor Heyerdahl (1914–2002) as its honorary chairman. Gray arranged to have one of the monolithic human figures known as \"moai\" exhibited in the United States. With the help of anthropologist William Mulloy (1917-1978), Gray selected an , five-ton head, which was exhibited in front of the Seagram Building in New York and in the Pan American Union building in Washington, D.C.\nAn important chapter for the organization started with its involvement in the broad international effort led by UNESCO for the protection of the city of Venice, Italy from catastrophic flooding. After the extremely high tide of 4 November 1966, the city, including the historic Piazza San Marco, was inundated for more than twenty-four hours. The \"International Fund for Monuments\" set up a \"Venice Committee\", with Professor John McAndrew (1904-1978) of Wellesley College as chairman and Gray as executive secretary. On the part of the Committee, appeals were made to the American public, and local chapters set up in American cities. This early initiative led to the formation of the independent organization Save Venice in 1971. These efforts helped establish a reputation for IFM. In Spain, the organization formed a \"Committee for Spain\" under the leadership of American diplomat and U.S. Ambassador to Spain in 1965-67 Angier Biddle Duke (1915-1995).\n\nAt the invitation of UNESCO in the 1970s IFM became involved in architectural conservation in Nepal, where the organization adopted the Mahadev temple complex in Gokarna, in Nepal's Kathmandu Valley. The 14th-century temple building was surveyed, rotten timbers were replaced, and the foundations were strengthened. Sculpted wooden architectural elements were painstakingly cleaned of layers of a motor oil coating that had been applied annually for protection.\n\nAlso at the request of UNESCO, IFM launched a project for the preservation of the Citadelle Laferrière, a large mountaintop fortress near Milot, Haiti. The site was the keystone of a defensive system constructed in the early period of Haitian independence to protect the young state from French attempts to reclaim it as a colony. Local artisans reconstructed wooden and tile roofs over the grand gallery and batteries using traditional carpentry methods, and consolidated the stone galleries of the fortress. IFM also sponsored a traveling exhibition and a film about the history of the \"Citadelle\", which was used for educational purposes in the United States.\n\nThrough donations and matching funds, WMF has worked with local community and government partners worldwide to safeguard and conserve places of historic value for future generations. To date, WMF has worked at more than 500 sites in 91 countries, including many UNESCO World Heritage Sites. WMF has worked at internationally famous tourist attractions as well as lesser-known sites. Highly prominent projects are many temples at Angkor, Cambodia, starting in 1990, including Preah Khan and Phnom Bakheng; the Château de Chantilly in Chantilly, France; the ghost town of Craco, Italy; many structures in Rome, including the Temple of Hercules, Santa Maria Antiqua, and the House of Augustus; several sites on Easter Island; various sites at ancient Luxor in Egypt; Lalibela in Ethiopia; San Ignacio Miní in Argentina; the ancient Maya city of Naranjo, Guatemala; the Segovia Aqueduct in Segovia, Spain; as well as 25 projects in Venice, Italy, over 20 years. WMF has also participated in projects in the United States, including Ellis Island, Taos Pueblo, Mesa Verde National Park, the Mount Lebanon Shaker Society, and many sites in New Orleans and the Gulf Coast.\n\nEvery two years WMF publishes the \"World Monuments Watch\" (formerly the \"World Monuments Watch List of 100 Most Endangered Sites\"). Since the first list was compiled in 1996, this program has drawn international attention to cultural heritage sites around the world threatened by neglect, vandalism, armed conflict, commercial development, natural disasters, and climate change. Through the \"World Monuments Watch\", WMF fosters community support for the protection of endangered sites, and attracts technical and financial support for the sites.\n\nThe sites are nominated by international and local preservation groups and professionals, including local authorities. Sites of all types, including secular and religious architecture, archaeological sites, landscapes and townscapes, and dating from all time periods, from ancient to contemporary, are eligible. An independent panel of international experts reviews and selects the sites that make up the list. In 2010 the panelists were Christina Cameron, Alfredo Conti, Pierre-André Lablaude, Jeanne Marie Teutonico, and Christopher Young.\n\nWMF also operates a number of special initiatives that transcend individual projects at specific sites and address broader themes in heritage preservation.\n\nFollowing the Iraq War WMF created the \"Iraq Cultural Heritage Conservation Initiative\" to address the many threats to Iraq’s cultural heritage resulting from the occupation and from a long period of political isolation and conflict. At the ancient city of Babylon WMF has launched a program with the support of the United States Department of State to develop a comprehensive site management plan, help local officials prepare a nomination for World Heritage listing, and establish site boundaries for the long-term protection of the ancient city.\n\nIn 2006, with the support of Knoll, WMF launched \"Modernism at Risk\", an advocacy and conservation program for Modernist architecture. Through this initiative, the biennial \"World Monuments Fund / Knoll Modernism Prize\" was established in 2008. The inaugural prize was awarded to Brenne Gesellschaft von Architekten mbH for the restoration of the former ADGB Trade Union School, an important Bauhaus structure in Bernau bei Berlin, Germany. The 2010 prize was awarded to Bierman Henket Architecten and Wessel de Jonge Architecten for the restoration of the Zonnestraal Sanatorium, an aftercare colony for tubercular patients near Hilversum, in the Netherlands, built in 1931. The 2012 prize was awarded to the Architectural Consortium for Hizuchi Elementary School for the restoration of Hizuchi Elementary School in Hizuchi, Yawatahama City, Ehime Prefecture, Japan.\n\n\nEvery year, WMF presents the \"Hadrian Award\" to international leaders who have advanced the preservation of world art and architecture at its annual benefit dinner.\n\n\nSome of WMF's long-term partners have included American Express, Knoll, the Robert W. Wilson Challenge to Conserve Our Heritage, the Samuel H. Kress Foundation, and Tiffany & Co. The Samuel H. Kress Foundation's relationship with the organization dates almost to the inception of the \"International Fund for Monuments\".\n\nIn 2009, WMF agreed to share approximately 2,000 images of architecture, sites, and monuments from around the world to be made available by ARTstor.\n\nWMF has partnered with The Williamsburg High School for Architecture and Design, the only high school in the United States with a four-year comprehensive historic preservation curriculum.\n\n"}
