{"id": "30259172", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30259172", "title": "Abdellatif Zeroual", "text": "Abdellatif Zeroual\n\nAbdellatif Zeroual (1951 in Berrechid, Morocco – 14 November 1974 at \"Derb Moulay Chérif\" in Casablanca) was a philosophy teacher and member of the national committee of the \"Ila Al Amame\" movement.\nAbdellatif was the son of Haj Abdelkader Zeroual, a militant who fought the French before Morocco became independent.\n\nIn 1970, when the Moroccan authorities launched a crackdown on the Ila al-Aman movement, he went into hiding with Abraham Serfaty and was protected by Christine Daure-Serfaty. In 1973 he was sentenced to death in absentia by a Casabalanca court. On 5 November 1974 he disappeared after being snatched by a group of plain-clothed men while on his way to a meeting.\n\nA week later a body was registered at a hospital in Rabat, which human rights organisations claim to be his, although the Moroccan authorities have never confirmed this.\n"}
{"id": "2944526", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2944526", "title": "Abhyasa", "text": "Abhyasa\n\nAbhyāsa, in Hinduism, is a spiritual practice which is regularly and constantly practised over a long period of time. It has been prescribed by the great sage Patanjali Maharishi in his Yoga Sutras, and by Lord Krishna in the Bhagavad Gita as an essential means to control the mind, together with Vairāgya.\n\nSutra 1:12 \"Both practice (abhyāsa) and non-reaction (vairāgya) are required to still the patterning of consciousness.\" \n\nSutra 1:13 \"Practice is the sustained effort to rest in that stillness.\"—as translated by Chip Hartranft in his work \"The Yoga Sutra of Patanjali\".\n"}
{"id": "2849785", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2849785", "title": "Anguish", "text": "Anguish\n\nAnguish is derived from the Latin word angustiae, meaning extreme pain, distress or anxiety. The feeling of suffering from anguish is typically preceded by a tragedy or event that has a profound meaning to the being in question. Anguish can be felt physically or mentally (often referred to as emotional distress). Anguish is also a term used in philosophy, often as a translation from the Latin word for \"angst\". It is a paramount feature of existentialist philosophy, in which anguish is often understood as the experience of an utterly free being in a world with zero absolutes (existential despair). In the theology of Kierkegaard, it refers to a being with total free will who is in a constant state of spiritual fear that his freedom will lead him to fall short of the standards that God has laid out for them.\n\nA study done at the University of Princeton’s Center for the Study of Brain, Mind, and Behavior suggests that the presence of the emotion influences the decisions made. The study uses a functional magnetic resonance imaging machine to measure the brain waves of a subject when put into a difficult position. In this particular session, the subject was presented with a situation where she had to decide the fate of five people versus one person by the flip of a switch, and then decide the fate of five people versus one person by the physical acting of condemning a man to his death. The results of the fMRI stated that the decision of death by switch was easier than the decision of physically pushing a man to his death. It is theorized that the participant is being subjected to the emotion of anguish when faced with future possibility of physical condemning another person and therefore the brain enforces an “emotional block” to encourage the cessation of this behavior.\n\nAnguish is made up of fear, distress, anxiety and panic. These stressors cause an enormous amount of dissonance, which could then lead to issues of mental health. While taken literally anguish may be defined as a physical event, but it may be extrapolated to an event of one’s psyche. It has been found that the anguish of a significant change in the way a young student lives (i.e. their new responsibilities, being on their own, multiple deadlines etc.) has contributed to significantly increased rates of college students suffering from anxiety and depression.\n\nMusic has a particular way of eliciting emotions into its listeners. The notes heard by one person may have a different connotation than another person hearing the same notes. Upon hearing a song, symphony, or sonnet filled with anguish, one might begin to reflect upon their own life and experiences that coincide with the notes, thereby bringing repressed memories beyond subconscious to our salient mind.\n\nKierkegaard views anguish as the same as suffering. Everyone wants to find the \"truth\" but it takes anguish and suffering to \"appropriate\" the truth. Kierkegaard put it this way in 1847 and 1850. \n\nIn the teachings of Sartre, anguish is seen when an utterly captured being realizes the unpredictability of his or her action. For example, when walking along a cliff, you would feel anguish to know that you have the freedom to throw yourself down to your imminent death.\n"}
{"id": "7116046", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7116046", "title": "Animal rights", "text": "Animal rights\n\nAnimal rights is the idea in which some, or all, non-human animals are entitled to the possession of their own lives and that their most basic interests—such as the need to avoid suffering—should be afforded the same consideration as similar interests of human beings.\n\nIts advocates oppose the assignment of moral value and fundamental protections on the basis of species membership alone—an idea known since 1970 as speciesism, when the term was coined by Richard D. Ryder—arguing that it is a prejudice as irrational as any other. They maintain that animals should no longer be viewed as property or used as food, clothing, research subjects, entertainment, or beasts of burden. Multiple cultural traditions around the world such as Jainism, Taoism, Hinduism, Buddhism and Animism also espouse some forms of animal rights.\n\nIn parallel to the debate about moral rights, animal law is now widely taught in law schools in North America, and several prominent legal scholars support the extension of basic legal rights and personhood to at least some animals. The animals most often considered in arguments for personhood are bonobos and chimpanzees. This is supported by some animal rights academics because it would break through the species barrier, but opposed by others because it predicates moral value on mental complexity, rather than on sentience alone.\n\nCritics of animal rights argue that nonhuman animals are unable to enter into a social contract, and thus cannot be possessors of rights, a view summed up by the philosopher Roger Scruton, who writes that only humans have duties, and therefore only humans have rights. Another argument, associated with the utilitarian tradition, is that animals may be used as resources so long as there is no unnecessary suffering; they may have some moral standing, but they are inferior in status to human beings, and any interests they have may be overridden, though what counts as \"necessary\" suffering or a legitimate sacrifice of interests varies considerably. Certain forms of animal rights activism, such as the destruction of fur farms and animal laboratories by the Animal Liberation Front, have also attracted criticism, including from within the animal rights movement itself, as well as prompted reaction from the U.S. Congress with the enactment of laws allowing these activities to be prosecuted as terrorism, including the Animal Enterprise Terrorism Act.\nAristotle argued that animals lacked reason (logos), and placed humans at the top of the natural world, yet the respect for animals in ancient Greece was very high. Some animals were considered divine, e.g. dolphins.\nThe 21st-century debates about animals can be traced back to the savage stone age from horrible histories, and the idea of a divine hierarchy. In the \"Book of Genesis\" 1:26 (5th or 6th century BCE), Adam is given \"dominion over the fish of the sea, and over the fowl of the air, and over the cattle, and over all the earth, and over every creeping thing that creepeth upon the earth.\" Dominion need not entail property rights, but it has been interpreted, by some, over the centuries to imply ownership.\n\nContemporary philosopher Bernard Rollin writes that \"\"dominion\" does not entail or allow abuse any more than does dominion a parent enjoys over a child.\" Rollin further states that the Biblical Sabbath requirement promulgated in the Ten Commandments \"required that animals be granted a day of rest along with humans. Correlatively, the Bible forbids 'plowing with an ox and an ass together' (Deut. 22:10–11). According to the rabbinical tradition, this prohibition stems from the hardship that an ass would suffer by being compelled to keep up with an ox, which is, of course, far more powerful. Similarly, one finds the prohibition against 'muzzling an ox when it treads out the grain' (Deut. 25:4–5), and even an environmental prohibition against destroying trees when besieging a city (Deut. 20:19–20). These ancient regulations, virtually forgotten, bespeak of an eloquent awareness of the status of animals as ends in themselves\", a point also corroborated by Norm Phelps.\n\nThe philosopher and mathematician, Pythagoras (c. 580–c. 500 BCE), urged respect for animals, believing that human and nonhuman souls were reincarnated from human to animal, and vice versa. Against this, Aristotle (384–322 BCE), student to the philosopher Plato, argued that nonhuman animals had no interests of their own, ranking them far below humans in the Great Chain of Being. He was the first to create a taxonomy of animals; he perceived some similarities between humans and other species, but argued for the most part that animals lacked reason (\"logos\"), reasoning (\"logismos\"), thought (\"dianoia\", \"nous\"), and belief (\"doxa\").\n\nTheophrastus (c. 371 – c. 287 BCE), one of Aristotle's pupils, argued that animals also had reasoning (\"logismos\") and opposed eating meat on the grounds that it robbed them of life and was therefore unjust. Theophrastus did not prevail; Richard Sorabji writes that current attitudes to animals can be traced to the heirs of the Western Christian tradition selecting the hierarchy that Aristotle sought to preserve.\n\nPlutarch (1 C. CE) in his Life of Cato the Elder comments that while law and justice are applicable strictly to men only, beneficence and charity towards beasts is characteristic of a gentle heart. This is intended as a correction and advance over the merely utilitarian treatment of animals and slaves by Cato himself.\n\nTom Beauchamp (2011) writes that the most extensive account in antiquity of how animals should be treated was written by the Neoplatonist philosopher Porphyry (234–c. 305 CE), in his \"On Abstinence from Animal Food\", and \"On Abstinence from Killing Animals\".\n\nAccording to Richard D. Ryder, the first known animal protection legislation in Europe was passed in Ireland in 1635. It prohibited pulling wool off sheep, and the attaching of ploughs to horses' tails, referring to \"the cruelty used to beasts.\" In 1641, the first legal code to protect domestic animals in North America was passed by the Massachusetts Bay Colony. The colony's constitution was based on \"The Body of Liberties\" by the Reverend Nathaniel Ward (1578–1652), an English lawyer, Puritan clergyman, and University of Cambridge graduate. Ward's list of \"rites\" included rite 92: \"No man shall exercise any Tirrany or Crueltie toward any brute Creature which are usually kept for man's use.\" Historian Roderick Nash (1989) writes that, at the height of René Descartes' influence in Europe—and his view that animals were simply automata—it is significant that the New Englanders created a law that implied animals were not unfeeling machines.\n\nThe Puritans passed animal protection legislation in England too. Kathleen Kete writes that animal welfare laws were passed in 1654 as part of the ordinances of the Protectorate—the government under Oliver Cromwell (1599–1658), which lasted from 1653 to 1659, following the English Civil War. Cromwell disliked blood sports, which included cockfighting, cock throwing, dog fighting, bull baiting and bull running, said to tenderize the meat. These could be seen in villages and fairgrounds, and became associated with idleness, drunkenness, and gambling. Kete writes that the Puritans interpreted the biblical dominion of man over animals to mean responsible stewardship, rather than ownership. The opposition to blood sports became part of what was seen as Puritan interference in people's lives, and the animal protection laws were overturned during the Restoration, when Charles II was returned to the throne in 1660.\n\nThe great influence of the 17th century was the French philosopher, René Descartes (1596–1650), whose \"Meditations\" (1641) informed attitudes about animals well into the 20th century. Writing during the scientific revolution, Descartes proposed a mechanistic theory of the universe, the aim of which was to show that the world could be mapped out without allusion to subjective experience.\n\nHis mechanistic approach was extended to the issue of animal consciousness. Mind, for Descartes, was a thing apart from the physical universe, a separate substance, linking human beings to the mind of God. The nonhuman, on the other hand, were for Descartes nothing but complex automata, with no souls, minds, or reason.\n\nAgainst Descartes, the British philosopher John Locke (1632–1704) argued, in \"Some Thoughts Concerning Education\" (1693), that animals did have feelings, and that unnecessary cruelty toward them was morally wrong, but that the right not to be harmed adhered either to the animal's owner, or to the human being who was being damaged by being cruel. Discussing the importance of preventing children from tormenting animals, he wrote: \"For the custom of tormenting and killing of beasts will, by degrees, harden their minds even towards men.\"\n\nLocke's position echoed that of Thomas Aquinas (1225–1274). Paul Waldau writes that the argument can be found at 1 Corinthians (9:9–10), when Paul asks: \"Is it for oxen that God is concerned? Does he not speak entirely for our sake? It was written for our sake.\" Christian philosophers interpreted this to mean that humans had no direct duty to nonhuman animals, but had a duty only to protect them from the effects of engaging in cruelty.\n\nThe German philosopher Immanuel Kant (1724–1804), following Aquinas, opposed the idea that humans have direct duties toward nonhumans. For Kant, cruelty to animals was wrong only because it was bad for humankind. He argued in 1785 that \"cruelty to animals is contrary to man's duty to \"himself\", because it deadens in him the feeling of sympathy for their sufferings, and thus a natural tendency that is very useful to morality in relation to other \"human beings\" is weakened.\"\n\nJean-Jacques Rousseau (1712–1778) argued in \"Discourse on Inequality\" (1754) for the inclusion of animals in natural law on the grounds of sentience: \"By this method also we put an end to the time-honored disputes concerning the participation of animals in natural law: for it is clear that, being destitute of intelligence and liberty, they cannot recognize that law; as they partake, however, in some measure of our nature, in consequence of the sensibility with which they are endowed, they ought to partake of natural right; so that mankind is subjected to a kind of obligation even toward the brutes. It appears, in fact, that if I am bound to do no injury to my fellow-creatures, this is less because they are rational than because they are sentient beings: and this quality, being common both to men and beasts, ought to entitle the latter at least to the privilege of not being wantonly ill-treated by the former.\"\n\nIn his treatise on education, \"Emile, or On Education\" (1762), he encouraged parents to raise their children on a vegetarian diet. He believed that the food of the culture a child was raised eating, played an important role in the character and disposition they would develop as adults. \"For however one tries to explain the practice, it is certain that great meat-eaters are usually more cruel and ferocious than other men. This has been recognized at all times and in all places. The English are noted for their cruelty while the Gaures are the gentlest of men. All savages are cruel, and it is not their customs that tend in this direction; their cruelty is the result of their food.\"\n\nFour years later, one of the founders of modern utilitarianism, the English philosopher Jeremy Bentham (1748–1832), although opposed to the concept of natural rights, argued that it was the ability to suffer that should be the benchmark of how we treat other beings. Bentham claims that the capacity for suffering gives the right to equal consideration, equal consideration is that the interest of any being affected by an action are to be considered and have the equal interest of any other being. If rationality were the criterion, he argued, many humans, including infants and the disabled, would also have to be treated as though they were things. He did not conclude that humans and nonhumans had equal moral significance, but argued that the latter's interests should be taken into account. He wrote in 1789, just as African slaves were being freed by the French:\n\nThe French have already discovered that the blackness of the skin is no reason a human being should be abandoned without redress to the caprice of a tormentor. It may one day come to be recognized that the number of the legs, the villosity of the skin, or the termination of the \"os sacrum\" are reasons equally insufficient for abandoning a sensitive being to the same fate. What else is it that should trace the insuperable line? Is it the faculty of reason or perhaps the faculty of discourse? But a full-grown horse or dog, is beyond comparison a more rational, as well as a more conversable animal, than an infant of a day or a week or even a month, old. But suppose the case were otherwise, what would it avail? the question is not, Can they \"reason\"?, nor Can they \"talk\"? but, Can they \"suffer?\"\n\nThe 19th century saw an explosion of interest in animal protection, particularly in England. Debbie Legge and Simon Brooman write that the educated classes became concerned about attitudes toward the old, the needy, children, and the insane, and that this concern was extended to nonhumans. Before the 19th century, there had been prosecutions for poor treatment of animals, but only because of the damage to the animal as property. In 1793, for example, John Cornish was found not guilty of maiming a horse after pulling the animal's tongue out; the judge ruled that Cornish could be found guilty only if there was evidence of malice toward the owner.\n\nFrom 1800 onwards, there were several attempts in England to introduce animal protection legislation. The first was a bill against bull baiting, introduced in April 1800 by a Scottish MP, Sir William Pulteney (1729–1805). It was opposed \"inter alia\" on the grounds that it was anti-working class, and was defeated by two votes. Another attempt was made in 1802, this time opposed by the Secretary at War, William Windham (1750–1810), who said the Bill was supported by Methodists and Jacobins who wished to \"destroy the Old English character, by the abolition of all rural sports.\"\n\nIn 1809, Lord Erskine (1750-1823) introduced a bill to protect cattle and horses from malicious wounding, wanton cruelty, and beating. He told the House of Lords that animals had protection only as property: \"\"The animals themselves are without protection\"--the law regards them not \"substantively\"--they have no rights!\" Erskine in his parliamentary speech combined the vocabulary of animal rights and trusteeship with a theological appeal included in the Bill's preamble to opposing cruelty. The Bill was passed by the Lords, but was opposed in the Commons by Windham, who said it would be used against the \"lower orders\" when the real culprits would be their employers.\n\nIn 1821, the Treatment of Horses bill was introduced by Colonel Richard Martin (1754–1834), MP for Galway in Ireland, but it was lost among laughter in the House of Commons that the next thing would be rights for asses, dogs, and cats. Nicknamed \"Humanity Dick\" by George IV, Martin finally succeeded in 1822 with his \"Ill Treatment of Horses and Cattle Bill\"—or \"Martin's Act\", as it became known—which was the world's first major piece of animal protection legislation. It was given royal assent on June 22 that year as \"An Act to prevent the cruel and improper Treatment of Cattle\", and made it an offence, punishable by fines up to five pounds or two months imprisonment, to \"beat, abuse, or ill-treat any horse, mare, gelding, mule, ass, ox, cow, heifer, steer, sheep or other cattle.\"\n\nLegge and Brooman argue that the success of the Bill lay in the personality of \"Humanity Dick\", who was able to shrug off the ridicule from the House of Commons, and whose sense of humour managed to capture the House's attention. It was Martin himself who brought the first prosecution under the Act, when he had Bill Burns, a costermonger—a street seller of fruit—arrested for beating a donkey, and paraded the animal's injuries before a reportedly astonished court. Burns was fined, and newspapers and music halls were full of jokes about how Martin had relied on the testimony of a donkey.\n\nOther countries followed suit in passing legislation or making decisions that favoured animals. In 1822, the courts in New York ruled that wanton cruelty to animals was a misdemeanor at common law. In France in 1850, succeeded in having the \"Loi Grammont\" passed, outlawing cruelty against domestic animals, and leading to years of arguments about whether bulls could be classed as domestic in order to ban bullfighting. The state of Washington followed in 1859, New York in 1866, California in 1868, and Florida in 1889. In England, a series of amendments extended the reach of the 1822 Act, which became the Cruelty to Animals Act 1835, outlawing cockfighting, baiting, and dog fighting, followed by another amendment in 1849, and again in 1876.\n\nRichard Martin soon realized that magistrates did not take the Martin Act seriously, and that it was not being reliably enforced. Martin's Act was supported by various social reformers who were not parliamentarians and an informal network had gathered around the efforts of Reverend Arthur Broome (1779-1837) to create a voluntary organisation that would promote kindness toward animals. Broome canvassed opinions in letters that were published or summarised in various periodicals in 1821. After the passage of Richard Martin's anti-cruelty to cattle bill in 1822, Broome attempted to form a Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals that would bring together the patronage of persons who were of social rank and committed to social reforms. Broome did organise and chair a meeting of sympathisers in November 1822 where it was agreed that a Society should be created and at which Broome was named its Secretary but the attempt was short-lived. In 1824, Broome arranged a new meeting in Old Slaughter's Coffee House in St Martin's Lane, a London café frequented by artists and actors. The group met on June 16, 1824, and included a number of MPs: Richard Martin, Sir James Mackintosh (1765–1832), Sir Thomas Buxton (1786–1845), William Wilberforce (1759–1833), and Sir James Graham (1792–1861), who had been an MP, and who became one again in 1826.\n\nThey decided to form a \"Society instituted for the purpose of preventing cruelty to animals\"; the Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, as it became known. It determined to send men to inspect slaughterhouses, Smithfield Market, where livestock had been sold since the 10th century, and to look into the treatment of horses by coachmen. The Society became the Royal Society in 1840, when it was granted a royal charter by Queen Victoria, herself strongly opposed to vivisection.\n\nFrom 1824 onwards, several books were published, analyzing animal rights issues, rather than protection alone. Lewis Gompertz (1783/4–1865), one of the men who attended the first meeting of the SPCA, published \"Moral Inquiries on the Situation of Man and of Brutes\" (1824), arguing that every living creature, human and nonhuman, has more right to the use of its own body than anyone else has to use it, and that our duty to promote happiness applies equally to all beings. Edward Nicholson (1849–1912), head of the Bodleian Library at the University of Oxford, argued in \"Rights of an Animal\" (1879) that animals have the same natural right to life and liberty that human beings do, disregarding Descartes' mechanistic view—or what he called the \"Neo-Cartesian snake\"—that they lack consciousness. Other writers of the time who explored whether animals might have natural (or moral) rights were Edward Payson Evans (1831–1917), John Muir (1838–1914), and J. Howard Moore (1862–1916), an American zoologist and author of \"The Universal Kinship\" (1906) and \"The New Ethics\" (1907).\n\nThe development in England of the concept of animal rights was strongly supported by the German philosopher, Arthur Schopenhauer (1788–1860). He wrote that Europeans were \"awakening more and more to a sense that beasts have rights, in proportion as the strange notion is being gradually overcome and outgrown, that the animal kingdom came into existence solely for the benefit and pleasure of man.\"\n\nHe stopped short of advocating vegetarianism, arguing that, so long as an animal's death was quick, men would suffer more by not eating meat than animals would suffer by being eaten. Schopenhauer also theorized that the reason people succumbed to the \"unnatural diet\" of meat-eating was because of the unnatural, cold climate they emigrated to and the necessity of meat for survival in such a climate, for fruits and vegetables could not be dependably cultivated at those times. He applauded the animal protection movement in England—\"To the honor, then, of the English, be it said that they are the first people who have, in downright earnest, extended the protecting arm of the law to animals.\" He also argued against the dominant Kantian idea that animal cruelty is wrong only insofar as it brutalizes humans:\n\nThus, because Christian morality leaves animals out of account ... they are at once outlawed in philosophical morals; they are mere \"things,\" mere \"means\" to any ends whatsoever. They can therefore be used for vivisection, hunting, coursing, bullfights, and horse racing, and can be whipped to death as they struggle along with heavy carts of stone. Shame on such a morality that is worthy of pariahs, chandalas, and mlechchhas, and that fails to recognize the eternal essence that exists in every living thing ...\n\nThe English poet and dramatist Percy Bysshe Shelley (1792–1822) wrote two essays advocating a vegetarian diet, for ethical and health reasons: \"A Vindication of Natural Diet\" (1813) and \"On the Vegetable System of Diet\" (1829, posth.).\n\nJohn Stuart Mill (1806–1873), the English philosopher, also argued that utilitarianism must take animals into account, writing in 1864: \"Nothing is more natural to human beings, nor, up to a certain point in cultivation, more universal, than to estimate the pleasures and pains of others as deserving of regard exactly in proportion to their likeness to ourselves. ... Granted that any practice causes more pain to animals than it gives pleasure to man; is that practice moral or immoral? And if, exactly in proportion as human beings raise their heads out of the slough of selfishness, they do not with one voice answer 'immoral,' let the morality of the principle of utility be for ever condemned.\"\n\nJames Rachels writes that Charles Darwin's (1809–1882) \"On the Origin of Species\" (1859)—which presented the theory of evolution by natural selection—revolutionized the way humans viewed their relationship with other species. Not only did human beings have a direct kinship with other animals, but the latter had social, mental and moral lives too, Darwin argued. He wrote in his \"Notebooks\" (1837): \"Animals – whom we have made our slaves we do not like to consider our equals. – Do not slave holders wish to make the black man other kind?\" Later, in \"The Descent of Man\" (1871), he argued that \"There is no fundamental difference between man and the higher mammals in their mental faculties\", attributing to animals the power of reason, decision making, memory, sympathy, and imagination.\n\nRachels writes that Darwin noted the moral implications of the cognitive similarities, arguing that \"humanity to the lower animals\" was one of the \"noblest virtues with which man is endowed.\" He was strongly opposed to any kind of cruelty to animals, including setting traps. He wrote in a letter that he supported vivisection for \"real investigations on physiology; but not for mere damnable and detestable curiosity. It is a subject which makes me sick with horror ...\" In 1875, he testified before a Royal Commission on Vivisection, lobbying for a bill to protect both the animals used in vivisection, and the study of physiology. Rachels writes that the animal rights advocates of the day, such as Frances Power Cobbe, did not see Darwin as an ally.\n\nAn early proposal for legal rights for animals came from a group of citizens in Ashtabula County, Ohio. Around 1844, the group proposed an amendment to the U.S. Constitution stating that if slaves from slave states were receiving representation as 3/5 of a person on the basis that they were animal property, all the animal property of the free states should receive representation also.\n\nThe first animal protection group in the United States, the American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (ASPCA), was founded by Henry Bergh in April 1866. Bergh had been appointed by President Abraham Lincoln to a diplomatic post in Russia, and had been disturbed by the mistreatment of animals he witnessed there. He consulted with the president of the RSPCA in London, and returned to the United States to speak out against bullfights, cockfights, and the beating of horses. He created a \"Declaration of the Rights of Animals\", and in 1866 persuaded the New York state legislature to pass anti-cruelty legislation and to grant the ASPCA the authority to enforce it.\n\nIn 1875, the Irish social reformer Frances Power Cobbe (1822–1904) founded the Society for the Protection of Animals Liable to Vivisection, the world's first organization opposed to animal research, which became the National Anti-Vivisection Society. In 1880, the English feminist Anna Kingsford (1846–1888) became one of the first English women to graduate in medicine, after studying for her degree in Paris, and the only student at the time to do so without having experimented on animals. She published \"The Perfect Way in Diet\" (1881), advocating vegetarianism, and in the same year founded the Food Reform Society. She was also vocal in her opposition to experimentation on animals. In 1898, Cobbe set up the British Union for the Abolition of Vivisection, with which she campaigned against the use of dogs in research, coming close to success with the 1919 Dogs (Protection) Bill, which almost became law.\n\nRyder writes that, as the interest in animal protection grew in the late 1890s, attitudes toward animals among scientists began to harden. They embraced the idea that what they saw as anthropomorphism—the attribution of human qualities to nonhumans—was unscientific. Animals had to be approached as physiological entities only, as Ivan Pavlov wrote in 1927, \"without any need to resort to fantastic speculations as to the existence of any possible subjective states.\" It was a position that hearkened back to Descartes in the 17th century, that nonhumans were purely mechanical, with no rationality and perhaps even no consciousness.\n\nAvoiding utilitarianism, Friedrich Nietzsche (1844–1900) found other reasons to defend animals. He argued that \"The sight of blind suffering is the spring of the deepest emotion.\" He once wrote: \"For man is the cruelest animal. At tragedies, bull-fights, and crucifixions hath he hitherto been happiest on earth; and when he invented his hell, behold, that was his heaven on earth.\" Throughout his writings, he speaks of the human being as an animal.\n\nIn 1894, Henry Salt (1851–1939), a former master at Eton, who had set up the Humanitarian League to lobby for a ban on hunting the year before, published \"Animals' Rights: Considered in Relation to Social Progress\". He wrote that the object of the essay was to \"set the principle of animals' rights on a consistent and intelligible footing.\" Concessions to the demands for \"jus animalium\" had been made grudgingly to date, he wrote, with an eye on the interests of animals \"qua\" property, rather than as rights bearers:\n\nEven the leading advocates of animal rights seem to have shrunk from basing their claim on the only argument which can ultimately be held to be a really sufficient one—the assertion that animals, as well as men, though, of course, to a far less extent than men, are possessed of a distinctive individuality, and, therefore, are in justice entitled to live their lives with a due measure of that \"restricted freedom\" to which Herbert Spencer alludes.\n\nHe argued that there was no point in claiming rights for animals if those rights were subordinated to human desire, and took issue with the idea that the life of a human might have more moral worth. \"[The] notion of the life of an animal having 'no moral purpose,' belongs to a class of ideas which cannot possibly be accepted by the advanced humanitarian thought of the present day—it is a purely arbitrary assumption, at variance with our best instincts, at variance with our best science, and absolutely fatal (if the subject be clearly thought out) to any full realization of animals' rights. If we are ever going to do justice to the lower races, we must get rid of the antiquated notion of a 'great gulf' fixed between them and mankind, and must recognize the common bond of humanity that unites all living beings in one universal brotherhood.\"\n\nIn 1902, Lizzy Lind af Hageby (1878–1963), a Swedish feminist, and a friend, Lisa Shartau, traveled to England to study medicine at the London School of Medicine for Women, intending to learn enough to become authoritative anti-vivisection campaigners. In the course of their studies, they witnessed several animal experiments, and published the details as \"The Shambles of Science: Extracts from the Diary of Two Students of Physiology\" (1903). Their allegations included that they had seen a brown terrier dog dissected while conscious, which prompted angry denials from the researcher, William Bayliss, and his colleagues. After Stephen Coleridge of the National Anti-Vivisection Society accused Bayliss of having violated the Cruelty to Animals Act 1876, Bayliss sued and won, convincing a court that the animal had been anesthetized as required by the Act.\n\nIn response, anti-vivisection campaigners commissioned a statue of the dog to be erected in Battersea Park in 1906, with the plaque: \"Men and Women of England, how long shall these Things be?\" The statue caused uproar among medical students, leading to frequent vandalism of the statue and the need for a 24-hour police guard. The affair culminated in riots in 1907 when 1,000 medical students clashed with police, suffragettes and trade unionists in Trafalgar Square. Battersea Council removed the statue from the park under cover of darkness two years later.\n\nCoral Lansbury (1985) and Hilda Kean (1998) write that the significance of the affair lay in the relationships that formed in support of the \"Brown Dog Done to Death\", which became a symbol of the oppression the women's suffrage movement felt at the hands of the male political and medical establishment. Kean argues that both sides saw themselves as heirs to the future. The students saw the women and trade unionists as representatives of anti-science sentimentality, while the women saw themselves as progressive, with the students and their teachers belonging to a previous age.\n\nMembers of the English Vegetarian Society who avoided the use of eggs and animal milk in the 19th and early 20th century were known as strict vegetarians. The International Vegetarian Union cites an article informing readers of alternatives to shoe leather in the Vegetarian Society's magazine in 1851 as evidence of the existence of a group that sought to avoid animal products entirely. There was increasing unease within the Society from the start of the 20th century onwards with regards to egg and milk consumption, and in 1923 its magazine wrote that the \"ideal position for vegetarians is [complete] abstinence from animal products.\"\n\nMahatma Gandhi (1869–1948) argued in 1931 before a meeting of the Society in London that vegetarianism should be pursued in the interests of animals, and not only as a human health issue. He met both Henry Salt and Anna Kingsford, and read Salt's \"A Plea for Vegetarianism\" (1880). Salt wrote in the pamphlet that \"a Vegetarian is still regarded, in ordinary society, as little better than a madman.\" In 1944, several members, led by Donald Watson (1910–2016), decided to break from the Vegetarian Society over the issue of egg and milk use. Watson coined the term \"vegan\" for those whose diet included no animal products, and they formed the British Vegan Society on November 1 that year.\n\nOn coming to power in January 1933, the Nazi Party passed a comprehensive set of animal protection laws. The laws were similar to those that already existed in England, though more detailed and with severe penalties for breaking them. Arnold Arluke and Boria Sax write that the Nazis tried to abolish the distinction between humans and animals, to the point where many people were regarded as less valuable than animals.\n\nIn April 1933 they passed laws regulating the slaughter of animals; one of their targets was kosher slaughter. In November the \"Tierschutzgesetz\", or animal protection law, was introduced, with Adolf Hitler announcing an end to animal cruelty: \"Im neuen Reich darf es keine Tierquälerei mehr geben.\" (\"In the new Reich, no more animal cruelty will be allowed.\") It was followed in July 1934 by the \"Reichsjagdgesetz\", prohibiting hunting; in July 1935 by the \"Naturschutzgesetz\", environmental legislation; in November 1937 by a law regulating animal transport in cars; and in September 1938 by a similar law dealing with animals on trains. Hitler was a vegetarian in the later years of his life; several members of his inner circle, including Rudolf Hess, Joseph Goebbels, and Heinrich Himmler, adopted some form of vegetarianism, though by most accounts their vegetarianism was not as strict as Hitler's.\n\nDespite the proliferation of animal protection legislation, animals still had no legal rights. Debbie Legge writes that existing legislation was very much tied to the idea of human interests, whether protecting human sensibilities by outlawing cruelty, or protecting property rights by making sure animals were not damaged. The over-exploitation of fishing stocks, for example, is viewed as harming the environment for people; the hunting of animals to extinction means that humans in the future will derive no enjoyment from them; poaching results in financial loss to the owner, and so on.\n\nNotwithstanding the interest in animal welfare of the previous century, the situation for animals arguably deteriorated in the 20th century, particularly after the Second World War. This was in part because of the increase in the numbers used in animal research—300 in the UK in 1875, 19,084 in 1903, and 2.8 million in 2005 (50–100 million worldwide), and a modern annual estimated range of 10 million to upwards of 100 million in the US—but mostly because of the industrialization of farming, which saw billions of animals raised and killed for food on a scale considered impossible before the war.\n\nIn the early 1960s in England, support for animal rights began to coalesce around the issue of blood sports, particularly hunting deer, foxes, and otters using dogs, an aristocratic and middle-class English practice, stoutly defended in the name of protecting rural traditions. The psychologist Richard D. Ryder – who became involved with the animal rights movement in the late 1960s – writes that the new chair of the League Against Cruel Sports tried in 1963 to steer it away from confronting members of the hunt, which triggered the formation that year of a direct action breakaway group, the Hunt Saboteurs Association. This was set up by a journalist, John Prestige, who had witnessed a pregnant deer being chased into a village and killed by the Devon and Somerset Staghounds. The practice of sabotaging hunts (for example, by misleading the dogs with scents or horns) spread throughout south-east England, particularly around university towns, leading to violent confrontations when the huntsmen attacked the \"sabs\".\n\nThe controversy spread to the RSPCA, which had arguably grown away from its radical roots to become a conservative group with charity status and royal patronage. It had failed to speak out against hunting, and indeed counted huntsmen among its members. As with the League Against Cruel Sports, this position gave rise to a splinter group, the RSPCA Reform Group, which sought to radicalize the organization, leading to chaotic meetings of the group's ruling Council, and successful (though short-lived) efforts to change it from within by electing to the Council members who would argue from an animal rights perspective, and force the RSPCA to address issues such as hunting, factory farming, and animal experimentation. Ryder himself was elected to the Council in 1971, and served as its chair from 1977 to 1979.\n\nThe same period saw writers and academics begin to speak out again in favor of animal rights. Ruth Harrison published \"Animal Machines\" (1964), an influential critique of factory farming, and on October 10, 1965, the novelist Brigid Brophy had an article, \"The Rights of Animals\", published in \"The Sunday Times\". She wrote:\n\nThe relationship of homo sapiens to the other animals is one of unremitting exploitation. We employ their work; we eat and wear them. We exploit them to serve our superstitions: whereas we used to sacrifice them to our gods and tear out their entrails in order to foresee the future, we now sacrifice them to science, and experiment on their entrails in the hope—or on the mere off chance—that we might thereby see a little more clearly into the present ... To us it seems incredible that the Greek philosophers should have scanned so deeply into right and wrong and yet never noticed the immorality of slavery. Perhaps 3000 years from now it will seem equally incredible that we do not notice the immorality of our own oppression of animals.\nRobert Garner writes that Harrison's book and Brophy's article led to an explosion of interest in the relationship between humans and nonhumans. In particular, Brophy's article was discovered in or around 1969 by a group of postgraduate philosophy students at the University of Oxford, Roslind and Stanley Godlovitch (husband and wife from Canada), John Harris, and David Wood, now known as the Oxford Group. They decided to put together a symposium to discuss the theory of animal rights.\n\nAround the same time, Richard Ryder wrote several letters to \"The Daily Telegraph\" criticizing animal experimentation, based on incidents he had witnessed in laboratories. The letters, published in April and May 1969, were seen by Brigid Brophy, who put Ryder in touch with the Godlovitches and Harris. Ryder also started distributing pamphlets in Oxford protesting against experiments on animals; it was in one of these pamphlets in 1970 that he coined the term \"speciesism\" to describe the exclusion of nonhuman animals from the protections offered to humans. He subsequently became a contributor to the Godlovitches' symposium, as did Harrison and Brophy, and it was published in 1971 as \"\".\n\nIn 1970, over lunch in Oxford with fellow student Richard Keshen, a vegetarian, Australian philosopher Peter Singer came to believe that, by eating animals, he was engaging in the oppression of other species. Keshen introduced Singer to the Godlovitches, and in 1973 Singer reviewed their book for \"The New York Review of Books\". In the review, he used the term \"animal liberation\", writing:\nWe are familiar with Black Liberation, Gay Liberation, and a variety of other movements. With Women's Liberation some thought we had come to the end of the road. Discrimination on the basis of sex, it has been said, is the last form of discrimination that is universally accepted and practiced without pretense ... But one should always be wary of talking of \"the last remaining form of discrimination.\" ... \"Animals, Men and Morals\" is a manifesto for an Animal Liberation movement.\n\nOn the strength of his review, \"The New York Review of Books\" took the unusual step of commissioning a book from Singer on the subject, published in 1975 as \"Animal Liberation\", now one of the animal rights movement's canonical texts. Singer based his arguments on the principle of utilitarianism – the view, in its simplest form, that an act is right if it leads to the \"greatest happiness of the greatest number\", a phrase first used in 1776 by Jeremy Bentham. He argued in favor of the equal consideration of interests, the position that there are no grounds to suppose that a violation of the basic interests of a human—for example, an interest in not suffering—is different in any morally significant way from a violation of the basic interests of a nonhuman. Singer used the term \"speciesism\" in the book, citing Ryder, and it stuck, becoming an entry in the \"Oxford English Dictionary\" in 1989.\n\nThe book's publication triggered a groundswell of scholarly interest in animal rights. Richard Ryder's \"Victims of Science: The Use of Animals in Research\" (1975) appeared, followed by Andrew Linzey's \"Animal Rights: A Christian Perspective\" (1976), and Stephen R. L. Clark's \"The Moral Status of Animals\" (1977). A Conference on Animal Rights was organized by Ryder and Linzey at Trinity College, Cambridge, in August 1977. This was followed by Mary Midgley's \"Beast And Man: The Roots of Human Nature\" (1978), then \"Animal Rights–A Symposium\" (1979), which included the papers delivered to the Cambridge conference.\n\nFrom 1982 onwards, a series of articles by Tom Regan led to his \"The Case for Animal Rights\" (1984), in which he argues that nonhuman animals are \"subjects-of-a-life\", and therefore possessors of moral rights, a work regarded as a key text in animal rights theory. Regan wrote in 2001 that philosophers had written more about animal rights in the previous 20 years than in the 2,000 years before that. Garner writes that Charles Magel's bibliography, \"Keyguide to Information Sources in Animal Rights\" (1989), contains 10 pages of philosophical material on animals up to 1970, but 13 pages between 1970 and 1989 alone.\n\nIn 1971, a law student, Ronnie Lee, formed a branch of the Hunt Saboteurs Association in Luton, later calling it the Band of Mercy after a 19th-century RSPCA youth group. The Band attacked hunters' vehicles by slashing tires and breaking windows, calling it \"active compassion\". In November 1973, they engaged in their first act of arson when they set fire to a Hoechst Pharmaceuticals research laboratory, claiming responsibility as a \"nonviolent guerilla organization dedicated to the liberation of animals from all forms of cruelty and persecution at the hands of mankind.\"\n\nLee and another activist were sentenced to three years in prison in 1974, paroled after 12 months. In 1976, Lee brought together the remaining Band of Mercy activists along with some fresh faces to start a leaderless resistance movement, calling it the Animal Liberation Front (ALF). ALF activists see themselves as a modern Underground Railroad, passing animals removed from farms and laboratories to sympathetic veterinarians, safe houses and sanctuaries. Some activists also engage in threats, intimidation, and arson, acts that have lost the movement sympathy in mainstream public opinion.\n\nThe decentralized model of activism is frustrating for law enforcement organizations, who find the networks difficult to infiltrate, because they tend to be organized around friends. In 2005, the US Department of Homeland Security indicated how seriously it takes the ALF when it included them in a list of domestic terrorist threats. The tactics of some of the more determined ALF activists are anathema to many animal rights advocates, such as Singer, who regard the movement as something that should occupy the moral high ground. ALF activists respond to the criticism with the argument that, as Ingrid Newkirk puts it, \"Thinkers may prepare revolutions, but bandits must carry them out.\"\n\nFrom the 1980s through to the early 2000s there was an increased level of violence by animal rights extremist groups directed at individuals and institutions associated with animal research. Activist groups involved included the Justice Department, the Animal Rights Militia and SHAC. In the 1980s, animal rights became associated with punk subculture and ideologies, particularly straight edge hardcore punk in the United States and anarcho-punk in the United Kingdom. This association continues on into the 21st century, as evidenced by the prominence of vegan punk events such as Fluff Fest in Europe.\n\nHenry Spira (1927–1998), a former seaman and civil rights activist, became the most notable of the new animal advocates in the United States. A proponent of gradual change, he formed Animal Rights International in 1974, and introduced the idea of \"reintegrative shaming\", whereby a relationship is formed between a group of animal rights advocates and a corporation they see as misusing animals, with a view to obtaining concessions or halting a practice. It is a strategy that has been widely adopted, most notably by People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals.\n\nSpira's first campaign was in opposition to the American Museum of Natural History in 1976, where cats were being experimented on, research that he persuaded them to stop. His most notable achievement was in 1980, when he convinced the cosmetics company Revlon to stop using the Draize test, which involves toxicity tests on the skin or in the eyes of animals. He took out a full-page ad in several newspapers, featuring a rabbit with sticking plaster over the eyes, and the caption, \"How many rabbits does Revlon blind for beauty's sake?\" Revlon stopped using animals for cosmetics testing, donated money to help set up the Center for Alternatives to Animal Testing, and was followed by other leading cosmetics companies. Revlon has since renewed testing on animals as it is unwilling to give up revenue from sales in China, where animal testing is required for cosmetics and other items. []\n\nIn 1999, New Zealand passed a new Animal Welfare Act that had the effect of banning experiments on \"non-human hominids\".\n\nAlso in 1999, Public Law 106-152 (Title 18, Section 48) was put into action in the United States. This law makes it a felony to create, sell, or possess videos showing animal cruelty with the intention of profiting financially from them.\n\nIn 2005, the Austrian parliament banned experiments on apes, unless they are performed in the interests of the individual ape. Also in Austria, the Supreme Court ruled in January 2008 that a chimpanzee (called Matthew Hiasl Pan by those advocating for his personhood) was not a person, after the Association Against Animal Factories sought personhood status for him because his custodians had gone bankrupt. The chimpanzee had been captured as a baby in Sierra Leone in 1982, then smuggled to Austria to be used in pharmaceutical experiments, but was discovered by customs officials when he arrived in the country, and was taken to a shelter instead. He was kept there for 25 years, until the group that ran the shelter went bankrupt in 2007. Donors offered to help him, but under Austrian law only a person can receive personal gifts, so any money sent to support him would be lost to the shelter's bankruptcy. The Association appealed the ruling to the European Court of Human Rights. The lawyer proposing the chimpanzee's personhood asked the court to appoint a legal guardian for him and to grant him four rights: the right to life, limited freedom of movement, personal safety, and the right to claim property.\n\nIn June 2008, a committee of Spain's national legislature became the first to vote for a resolution to extend limited rights to nonhuman primates. The parliamentary Environment Committee recommended giving chimpanzees, bonobos, gorillas, and orangutans the right not to be used in medical experiments or in circuses, and recommended making it illegal to kill apes, except in self-defense, based upon the rights recommended by the Great Ape Project. The committee's proposal has not yet been enacted into law.\n\nFrom 2009 onwards, several countries outlawed the use of some or all animals in circuses, starting with Bolivia, and followed by several countries in Europe, Scandinavia, the Middle East, and Singapore.\n\nIn 2010, the regional government in Catalonia passed a motion to outlaw bull fighting, the first such ban in Spain. In 2011, PETA sued SeaWorld over the captivity of five orcas in San Diego and Orlando, arguing that the whales were being treated as slaves. It was the first time the Thirteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution, which outlaws slavery and involuntary servitude, was cited in court to protect nonhuman rights. A federal judge dismissed the case in February 2012.\n\nIn 2015, the Nonhuman Rights Project (NhPR) filed three lawsuits in New York State on behalf of four captive chimpanzees, demanding that the courts grant them the right to bodily liberty via the writ of Habeas Corpus and to immediately send them to a sanctuary affiliated with the North American Primate Sanctuary Alliance. All of the petitions were denied. In the case involving the chimpanzees Hercules and Leo, Justice Barbra Jaffe did not immediately dismiss the filing and instead ordered a hearing requiring the chimpanzee owner to show why the chimpanzees should be not be released and transferred to the sanctuary. Following the hearing, Justice Jaffe issued an order denying Hercules and Leo's petition.\n\nEven though the petition was denied, NhRP interpreted Justice Jeffe's decision as a victory. In its press release it emphasized the fact that Justice Jeffe agreed with NhRP when finding that \"'persons' are not restricted to human beings, and that who is a 'person' is not a question of biology, but of public policy and principle\" and also stating that \"Efforts to extend legal rights to chimpanzees are thus understandable; some day they may even succeed.\"\n\n Robert Garner writes that both Hindu and Buddhist societies abandoned animal sacrifice and embraced vegetarianism from the 3rd century BCE. Several kings in India built hospitals for animals, and the emperor Ashoka (304–232 BCE) issued orders against hunting and animal slaughter, in line with \"ahimsa\", the doctrine of non-violence. Garner writes that Jainism took this idea further. Jains believe that no living creature should be harmed, and they are known to clear paths in front of them by sweeping them to protect any insect life that may be present.\n\nIn 2014, the Jain pilgrimage destination of Palitana City in Indian state of Gujarat became the first city in the world to be legally vegetarian. It has outlawed, or made illegal, the buying and selling of meat, fish and eggs, and also related jobs or work, such as fishing and penning 'food animals'.\n\nPaul Waldau writes that, in 2000, the High Court in Kerala used the language of \"rights\" in relation to circus animals, ruling that they are \"beings entitled to dignified existence\" under Article 21 of the Indian Constitution. The ruling said that if human beings are entitled to these rights, animals should be too. The court went beyond the requirements of the Constitution that all living beings should be shown compassion, and said: \"It is not only our fundamental duty to show compassion to our animal friends, but also to recognize and protect their rights.\" Waldau writes that other courts in India and one court in Sri Lanka have used similar language.\n\nIn 2012, the Indian government issued a ban on the use of live animals in education and much research.\nFor some the basis of animal rights is in religion or animal worship (or in general nature worship), with some religions banning killing of any animal; One of the most important sanctions of the Buddhist faith is the concept of ahimsa, or refraining from the destruction of life. According to Buddhist belief, humans do not deserve preferential treatment over other living beings. See also in section above.\n\nIn contrast, in other religions, animals can be unclean, with in general allowing eating all except for these; \"The Torah allows eating certain kinds of \"winged swarming things\" (i.e. insects) while prohibiting others\".\n\nAnimal rights were recognized early by the Sharia (Islamic law). This recognition is based on both the Qur'an and the Hadith. In the Qur'an, there are many references to animals, detailing that they have souls, form communities, communicate with God and worship Him in their own way. Muhammad forbade his followers to harm any animal and asked them to respect the rights of animals. It is a distinctive characteristic of the Shariah that all animals have legal rights. Othman Llewellyn even argues that Shariah has mechanisms for the full repair of injuries suffered by non-human creatures including their representation in court, assessment of injuries and awarding of relief to them. The classical Muslim jurist 'Izz ad-Din ibn 'Abd as-Salam, who flourished during the thirteenth century, formulated the following statement of animal rights:\n\nThe rights of livestock and animals upon man: these are that he spend on them the provision that their kinds require, even if they have aged or sickened such that no benefit comes from them; that he not burden them beyond what they can bear; that he not put them together with anything by which they would be injured, whether of their own kind or other species, and whether by breaking their bones or butting or wounding; that he slaughters them with kindness when he slaughters them, and neither flay their skins nor break their bones until their bodies have become cold and their lives have passed away; that he not slaughter their young within their sight, but that he isolate them; that he makes comfortable their resting places and watering places; that he puts their males and females together during their mating seasons; that he not discard those which he takes as game; and neither shoots them with anything that breaks their bones nor brings about their destruction by any means that renders their meat unlawful to eat.\n\nOn the other hand, animal sacrifice is a prominent feature of \"Eid al-Adha\" observances.\n\nThe two main philosophical approaches to animal rights are utilitarian and rights-based. The former is exemplified by Peter Singer, and the latter by Tom Regan and Gary Francione. Their differences reflect a distinction philosophers draw between ethical theories that judge the rightness of an act by its consequences (consequentialism/teleological ethics, or utilitarianism), and those that focus on the principle behind the act, almost regardless of consequences (deontological ethics). Deontologists argue that there are acts we should never perform, even if failing to do so entails a worse outcome.\n\nThere are a number of positions that can be defended from a consequentalist or deontologist perspective, including the capabilities approach, represented by Martha Nussbaum, and the egalitarian approach, which has been examined by Ingmar Persson and Peter Vallentyne. The capabilities approach focuses on what individuals require to fulfill their capabilities: Nussbaum (2006) argues that animals need a right to life, some control over their environment, company, play, and physical health.\n\nStephen R. L. Clark, Mary Midgley, and Bernard Rollin also discuss animal rights in terms of animals being permitted to lead a life appropriate for their kind. Egalitarianism favors an equal distribution of happiness among all individuals, which makes the interests of the worse off more important than those of the better off. Another approach, virtue ethics, holds that in considering how to act we should consider the character of the actor, and what kind of moral agents we should be. Rosalind Hursthouse has suggested an approach to animal rights based on virtue ethics. Mark Rowlands has proposed a contractarian approach.\n\nNussbaum (2004) writes that utilitarianism, starting with Jeremy Bentham and John Stuart Mill, has contributed more to the recognition of the moral status of animals than any other ethical theory. The utilitarian philosopher most associated with animal rights is Peter Singer, professor of bioethics at Princeton University. Singer is not a rights theorist, but uses the language of rights to discuss how we ought to treat individuals. He is a preference utilitarian, meaning that he judges the rightness of an act by the extent to which it satisfies the preferences (interests) of those affected.\n\nHis position is that there is no reason not to give equal consideration to the interests of human and nonhumans, though his principle of equality does not require identical treatment. A mouse and a man both have an interest in not being kicked, and there are no moral or logical grounds for failing to accord those interests equal weight. Interests are predicated on the ability to suffer, nothing more, and once it is established that a being has interests, those interests must be given equal consideration. Singer quotes the English philosopher Henry Sidgwick (1838–1900): \"The good of any one individual is of no more importance, from the point of view ... of the Universe, than the good of any other.\"\nSinger argues that equality of consideration is a prescription, not an assertion of fact: if the equality of the sexes were based only on the idea that men and women were equally intelligent, we would have to abandon the practice of equal consideration if this were later found to be false. But the moral idea of equality does not depend on matters of fact such as intelligence, physical strength, or moral capacity. Equality therefore cannot be grounded on the outcome of scientific investigations into the intelligence of nonhumans. All that matters is whether they can suffer.\n\nCommentators on all sides of the debate now accept that animals suffer and feel pain, although it was not always so. Bernard Rollin, professor of philosophy, animal sciences, and biomedical sciences at Colorado State University, writes that Descartes' influence continued to be felt until the 1980s. Veterinarians trained in the US before 1989 were taught to ignore pain, he writes, and at least one major veterinary hospital in the 1960s did not stock narcotic analgesics for animal pain control. In his interactions with scientists, he was often asked to \"prove\" that animals are conscious, and to provide \"scientifically acceptable\" evidence that they could feel pain.\n\nScientific publications have made it clear since the 1980s that the majority of researchers do believe animals suffer and feel pain, though it continues to be argued that their suffering may be reduced by an inability to experience the same dread of anticipation as humans, or to remember the suffering as vividly. The problem of animal suffering, and animal consciousness in general, arose primarily because it was argued that animals have no language. Singer writes that, if language were needed to communicate pain, it would often be impossible to know when humans are in pain, though we can observe pain behavior and make a calculated guess based on it. He argues that there is no reason to suppose that the pain behavior of nonhumans would have a different meaning from the pain behavior of humans.\n\nTom Regan, professor emeritus of philosophy at North Carolina State University, argues in \"The Case for Animal Rights\" (1983) that nonhuman animals are what he calls \"subjects-of-a-life\", and as such are bearers of rights. He writes that, because the moral rights of humans are based on their possession of certain cognitive abilities, and because these abilities are also possessed by at least some nonhuman animals, such animals must have the same moral rights as humans. Although only humans act as moral agents, both marginal-case humans, such as infants, and at least some nonhumans must have the status of \"moral patients\".\n\nMoral patients are unable to formulate moral principles, and as such are unable to do right or wrong, even though what they do may be beneficial or harmful. Only moral agents are able to engage in moral action. Animals for Regan have \"intrinsic value\" as subjects-of-a-life, and cannot be regarded as a means to an end, a view that places him firmly in the abolitionist camp. His theory does not extend to all animals, but only to those that can be regarded as subjects-of-a-life. He argues that all normal mammals of at least one year of age would qualify:\n\n... individuals are subjects-of-a-life if they have beliefs and desires; perception, memory, and a sense of the future, including their own future; an emotional life together with feelings of pleasure and pain; preference- and welfare-interests; the ability to initiate action in pursuit of their desires and goals; a psychophysical identity over time; and an individual welfare in the sense that their experiential life fares well or ill for them, logically independently of their utility for others and logically independently of their being the object of anyone else's interests.\n\nWhereas Singer is primarily concerned with improving the treatment of animals and accepts that, in some hypothetical scenarios, individual animals might be used legitimately to further human or nonhuman ends, Regan believes we ought to treat nonhuman animals as we would humans. He applies the strict Kantian ideal (which Kant himself applied only to humans) that they ought never to be sacrificed as a means to an end, and must be treated as ends in themselves.\n\nGary Francione, professor of law and philosophy at Rutgers Law School in Newark, is a leading abolitionist writer, arguing that animals need only one right, the right not to be owned. Everything else would follow from that paradigm shift. He writes that, although most people would condemn the mistreatment of animals, and in many countries there are laws that seem to reflect those concerns, \"in practice the legal system allows any use of animals, however abhorrent.\" The law only requires that any suffering not be \"unnecessary\". In deciding what counts as \"unnecessary\", an animal's interests are weighed against the interests of human beings, and the latter almost always prevail.\n\nFrancione's \"Animals, Property, and the Law\" (1995) was the first extensive jurisprudential treatment of animal rights. In it, Francione compares the situation of animals to the treatment of slaves in the United States, where legislation existed that appeared to protect them, while the courts ignored that the institution of slavery itself rendered the protection unenforceable. He offers as an example the United States Animal Welfare Act, which he describes as an example of symbolic legislation, intended to assuage public concern about the treatment of animals, but difficult to implement.\n\nHe argues that a focus on animal welfare, rather than animal rights, may worsen the position of animals by making the public feel comfortable about using them and entrenching the view of them as property. He calls animal rights groups who pursue animal welfare issues, such as People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals, the \"new welfarists\", arguing that they have more in common with 19th-century animal protectionists than with the animal rights movement; indeed, the terms \"animal protection\" and \"protectionism\" are increasingly favored. His position in 1996 was that there is no animal rights movement in the United States.\n\nMark Rowlands, professor of philosophy at the University of Florida, has proposed a contractarian approach, based on the original position and the veil of ignorance—a \"state of nature\" thought experiment that tests intuitions about justice and fairness—in John Rawls's \"A Theory of Justice\" (1971). In the original position, individuals choose principles of justice (what kind of society to form, and how primary social goods will be distributed), unaware of their individual characteristics—their race, sex, class, or intelligence, whether they are able-bodied or disabled, rich or poor—and therefore unaware of which role they will assume in the society they are about to form.\n\nThe idea is that, operating behind the veil of ignorance, they will choose a social contract in which there is basic fairness and justice for them no matter the position they occupy. Rawls did not include species membership as one of the attributes hidden from the decision makers in the original position. Rowlands proposes extending the veil of ignorance to include rationality, which he argues is an undeserved property similar to characteristics including race, sex and intelligence.\n\nAmerican philosopher Timothy Garry has proposed an approach that deems nonhuman animals worthy of \"prima facie\" rights. In a philosophical context, a \"prima facie\" (Latin for \"on the face of it\" or \"at first glance\") right is one that appears to be applicable at first glance, but upon closer examination may be outweighed by other considerations. In his book \"Ethics: A Pluralistic Approach to Moral Theory\", Lawrence Hinman characterizes such rights as \"the right is real but leaves open the question of whether it is applicable and overriding in a particular situation\". The idea that nonhuman animals are worthy of \"prima facie\" rights is to say that, in a sense, animals do have rights. However, these rights can be overridden by many other considerations, especially those conflicting a human's right to life, liberty, property, and the pursuit of happiness. Garry supports his view arguing:\n\n... if a nonhuman animal were to kill a human being in the U.S., it would have broken the laws of the land and would probably get rougher sanctions than if it were a human. My point is that like laws govern all who interact within a society, rights are to be applied to all beings who interact within that society. This is not to say these rights endowed by humans are equivalent to those held by nonhuman animals, but rather that if humans possess rights then so must all those who interact with humans.\n\nIn sum, Garry suggests that humans have obligations to nonhuman animals; however, animals do not, and ought not to, have uninfringible rights against humans.\n\nWomen have played a central role in animal advocacy since the 19th century. The anti-vivisection movement in the 19th and early 20th century in England and the United States was largely run by women, including Francis Power Cobbe, Anna Kingsford, Lizzy Lind af Hageby and Caroline Earle White (1833–1916). Garner writes that 70 per cent of the membership of the Victoria Street Society (one of the anti-vivisection groups founded by Cobbe) were women, as were 70 per cent of the membership of the British RSPCA in 1900.\n\nThe modern animal advocacy movement has a similar representation of women, though Garner (2005) writes that they are not invariably in leadership positions: during the March for Animals in Washington, D.C., in 1990—the largest animal rights demonstration held until then in the United States—most of the participants were women, but most of the platform speakers were men. Nevertheless, several influential animal advocacy groups have been founded by women, including the British Union for the Abolition of Vivisection by Cobbe in London in 1898; the Animal Welfare Board of India by Rukmini Devi Arundale in 1962; and People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals, co-founded by Ingrid Newkirk in 1980. In the Netherlands, Marianne Thieme and Esther Ouwehand were elected to parliament in 2006 representing the Parliamentary group for Animals.\n\nThe preponderance of women in the movement has led to a body of academic literature exploring feminism and animal rights; feminism and vegetarianism or veganism, the oppression of women and animals, and the male association of women and animals with nature and emotion, rather than reason—an association that several feminist writers have embraced. Lori Gruen writes that women and animals serve the same symbolic function in a patriarchal society: both are \"the used\"; the dominated, submissive \"Other\". When the British feminist Mary Wollstonecraft (1759–1797) published \"A Vindication of the Rights of Woman\" (1792), Thomas Taylor (1758–1835), a Cambridge philosopher, responded with an anonymous parody, \"A Vindication of the Rights of Brutes\" (1792), claiming that Wollstonecraft's arguments for women's rights could be applied equally to animals, a position he intended as \"reductio ad absurdum\".\n\nSome transhumanists argue for animal rights, liberation, and \"uplift\" of animal consciousness into machines. Transhumanism also understands animal rights on a gradation or spectrum with other types of sentient rights, including human rights and the rights of conscious artificial intelligences (posthuman rights).\n\nR. G. Frey, professor of philosophy at Bowling Green State University, is a preference utilitarian, as is Singer, but reaches a very different conclusion, arguing in \"Interests and Rights\" (1980) that animals have no interests for the utilitarian to take into account. Frey argues that interests are dependent on desire, and that no desire can exist without a corresponding belief. Animals have no beliefs, because a belief state requires the ability to hold a second-order belief—a belief about the belief—which he argues requires language: \"If someone were to say, e.g. 'The cat believes that the door is locked,' then that person is holding, as I see it, that the cat holds the declarative sentence 'The door is locked' to be true; and I can see no reason whatever for crediting the cat or any other creature which lacks language, including human infants, with entertaining declarative sentences.\"\n\nCarl Cohen, professor of philosophy at the University of Michigan, argues that rights holders must be able to distinguish between their own interests and what is right. \"The holders of rights must have the capacity to comprehend rules of duty governing all, including themselves. In applying such rules, [they] ... must recognize possible conflicts between what is in their own interest and what is just. Only in a community of beings capable of self-restricting moral judgments can the concept of a right be correctly invoked.\" Cohen rejects Singer's argument that, since a brain-damaged human could not make moral judgments, moral judgments cannot be used as the distinguishing characteristic for determining who is awarded rights. Cohen writes that the test for moral judgment \"is not a test to be administered to humans one by one\", but should be applied to the capacity of members of the species in general.\n\nJudge Richard Posner of the United States Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit debated the issue of animal rights in 2001 with Peter Singer. Posner posits that his moral intuition tells him \"that human beings prefer their own. If a dog threatens a human infant, even if it requires causing more pain to the dog to stop it, than the dog would have caused to the infant, then we favour the child. It would be monstrous to spare the dog.\"\n\nSinger challenges this by arguing that formerly unequal rights for gays, women, and certain races were justified using the same set of intuitions. Posner replies that equality in civil rights did not occur because of ethical arguments, but because facts mounted that there were no morally significant differences between humans based on race, sex, or sexual orientation that would support inequality. If and when similar facts emerge about humans and animals, the differences in rights will erode too. But facts will drive equality, not ethical arguments that run contrary to instinct, he argues. Posner calls his approach \"soft utilitarianism\", in contrast to Singer's \"hard utilitarianism\". He argues:\n\nThe \"soft\" utilitarian position on animal rights is a moral intuition of many, probably most, Americans. We realize that animals feel pain, and we think that to inflict pain without a reason is bad. Nothing of practical value is added by dressing up this intuition in the language of philosophy; much is lost when the intuition is made a stage in a logical argument. When kindness toward animals is levered into a duty of weighting the pains of animals and of people equally, bizarre vistas of social engineering are opened up.\n\nRoger Scruton, the British philosopher, argues that rights imply obligations. Every legal privilege, he writes, imposes a burden on the one who does not possess that privilege: that is, \"your right may be my duty.\" Scruton therefore regards the emergence of the animal rights movement as \"the strangest cultural shift within the liberal worldview\", because the idea of rights and responsibilities is, he argues, distinctive to the human condition, and it makes no sense to spread them beyond our own species.\n\nHe accuses animal rights advocates of \"pre-scientific\" anthropomorphism, attributing traits to animals that are, he says, Beatrix Potter-like, where \"only man is vile.\" It is within this fiction that the appeal of animal rights lies, he argues. The world of animals is non-judgmental, filled with dogs who return our affection almost no matter what we do to them, and cats who pretend to be affectionate when, in fact, they care only about themselves. It is, he argues, a fantasy, a world of escape.\n\nScruton singled out Peter Singer, a prominent Australian philosopher and animal-rights activist, for criticism. He wrote that Singer's works, including \"Animal Liberation\", \"contain little or no philosophical argument. They derive their radical moral conclusions from a vacuous utilitarianism that counts the pain and pleasure of all living things as equally significant and that ignores just about everything that has been said in our philosophical tradition about the real distinction between persons and animals.\"\n\nEvolutionary studies have provided explanations of altruistic behaviours in humans and nonhuman animals, and suggest similarities between humans and some nonhumans. Scientists such as Jane Goodall and Richard Dawkins believe in the capacity of nonhuman great apes, humans' closest relatives, to possess rationality and self-awareness.\n\nIn 2010, research led by psychologist Diana Reiss and zoologist Lori Marino was presented to a conference in San Diego, suggesting that dolphins are second in intelligence only to human beings, and concluded that they should be regarded as nonhuman persons. Marino used MRI scans to compare the dolphin and primate brain; she said the scans indicated there was \"psychological continuity\" between dolphins and humans. Reiss's research suggested that dolphins are able to solve complex problems, use tools, and pass the mirror test, using a mirror to inspect parts of their bodies.\n\nStudies have established links between interpersonal violence and animal cruelty.\n\nIn Christian theology, the founder of the Methodist movement, John Wesley, was a Christian vegetarian and maintained \"that animals had immortal souls and that there were considerable similarities between human and non-human animals.\"\n\nAccording to a paper published in 2000 by Harold Herzog and Lorna Dorr, previous academic surveys of attitudes towards animal rights have tended to suffer from small sample sizes and non-representative groups. However, a number of factors appear to correlate with the attitude of individuals regarding the treatment of animals and animal rights. These include gender, age, occupation, religion, and level of education. There has also been evidence to suggest that prior experience with companion animals may be a factor in people's attitudes.\n\nWomen are more likely to empathize with the cause of animal rights than men. A 1996 study of adolescents by Linda Pifer suggested that factors that may partially explain this discrepancy include attitudes towards feminism and science, scientific literacy, and the presence of a greater emphasis on \"nurturance or compassion\" among women.\n\nA 2007 survey to examine whether or not people who believed in evolution were more likely to support animal rights than creationists and believers in intelligent design found that this was largely the case – according to the researchers, the respondents who were strong Christian fundamentalists and believers in creationism were less likely to advocate for animal rights than those who were less fundamentalist in their beliefs. The findings extended previous research, such as a 1992 study which found that 48% of animal rights activists were atheists or agnostic.\n\nTwo surveys found that attitudes towards animal rights tactics, such as direct action, are very diverse within the animal rights communities. Near half (50% and 39% in two surveys) of activists do not support direct action. One survey concluded \"it would be a mistake to portray animal rights activists as homogeneous.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45512037", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45512037", "title": "Arthur P. Bochner", "text": "Arthur P. Bochner\n\nArthur P. Bochner is an American communication scholar known for his research and teaching on intimate relationships, qualitative inquiry, narrative, and autoethnography. He holds the rank of Distinguished University Professor at the University of South Florida and is an Honorary Professor at the Communication University of China. Bochner is the former President of the National Communication Association and Vice-President of the Society for the Study of Symbolic Interaction. Among his publications are two books, two edited collections, and more than 100 book articles, chapters, and essays on communication theory, family and interpersonal communication, love and marriage, and the philosophies and methodologies of the human sciences, especially narrative inquiry and autoethnography.\n\nBochner was raised in Pittsburgh. His father was a sign painter and his mother worked as an editorial assistant at \"The Jewish Chronicle\". Bochner’s interest in existential philosophy began at Taylor Allderdice High School where, in his senior thesis on Albert Camus' \"The Myth of Sisyphus\", he wrote, “All that was real—all that could be known—was what one could feel in his heart or touch through experience in the world. There is no truth beyond experience.” After high school he attended California State University in Pennsylvania where he participated in debate and extemporaneous speaking. He graduated with a B.S. in Speech Communication, then taught English and Speech at East High School in Auburn, New York. He earned an M.A. in Speech from Syracuse University and Ph.D. in Communication from Bowling Green State University. His doctoral dissertation was an experimental study of social relations entitled, \"A Multivariate Investigation of Machiavellianism and Task Structure in Four-Man Groups\".\n\nBochner’s early research focused on interpersonal and group communication in the empiricist tradition using experimental design and multivariate statistics. He spent three years as Assistant Professor at Cleveland State University and ten years at Temple University where he ascended through the academic ranks, achieving promotion to professor in 1982.\n\nIn 1976, Bochner published “Conceptual Frontiers in the Study of Families: An Introduction to the Literature,” a foundational essay for which he later received NCA’s Brommel Award for distinguished contributions to family communication. He also received awards for foundational essays on interpersonal competence (with Clifford Kelly) and autoethnography (with Carolyn Ellis). Bochner has been honored with numerous awards for career achievements in research and teaching including The Michael Osborne Teacher/Scholar Award, The Charles Woolbert Award (with Carolyn Ellis), Ohio University’s Elizabeth Andersch Career Achievement Award, and the McKnight Foundation’s William R. Jones Award for mentoring minority graduate students. Bochner acknowledges he is influenced by the communication theory of Gregory Bateson and R.D. Laing, the humanistic psychology of Carl Rogers, Abraham Maslow, and Rollo May, and the fieldwork of Erving Goffman, Jules Henry, and Clifford Geertz, inspiring him “to break away from received traditions—to innovate, create, and experiment with new or different methods of inquiring into and representing lived experiences” (p. 297).\n\nIn 1984, Bochner joined the Department of Communication at the University of South Florida. He became Chair of the department in 1985, guiding the department’s creation of the first Ph.D. program exclusively devoted to qualitative research in communication. In 1990, he left administration to collaborate with sociologist Carolyn Ellis, and become Co-Director of the Institute for Interpretive Human Studies. In 1996, Ellis and Bochner co-edited, \"Composing Ethnography: Alternative Forms of Qualitative Writing\", a book widely recognized as the first volume to promote forms of autoethnographic inquiry designed to bridge humanities and social science research. Bochner and Ellis teamed up as editors of two book series emphasizing autoethnography and personal narrative, which have yielded more than thirty books representing evocative and novel forms of representing lived experience, bringing attention to emotions, subjectivity, embodiment, and personal storytelling. He chaired the department for another two-year term in 1992. By 2004, the department had achieved distinction as a center of excellence in narrative and autoethnographic inquiry. In 2008, Bochner served as President of the National Communication Association.\n\nIn 2014, Bochner published \"Coming to Narrative: A Personal History of Paradigm Change in the Human Sciences\", an autoethnographic story that layers theory and story, weaving his professional and personal life with the social and historical contexts in which they developed. NCA’s Ethnography Division presented their 2014 “Best Book Award” to Bochner and their “Legacy Award” for distinguished lifetime achievement in ethnography. The National Communication Association also named Bochner as a Distinguished Scholar. In 2015, Coming to Narrative was honored with a \"Best Book\" Award by the International Congress for Qualitative Inquiry. Bochner made numerous innovations in the teaching curriculum of communication studies. He introduced courses on marital and family communication, and inaugurated undergraduate courses on Love and Communication, Writing Lives, and Relationships on Film, and graduate courses on Communication As Social Construction, Writing Workshop, Close Relationships, and Narrative Inquiry.\n\n\"Dialectics of interpersonal communication\": The ways talk between people may inhibit what it exhibits, e.g., revealing necessitating concealing; weakness used to dominate.\n\n\"Warm Ideas\": Ideas compelling us to move closer to our subject matter; cast new rays of insight; open up new lines of thought; extend into new avenues of inquiry, and amplify our understanding beyond what we knew before.\n\n\"Epistemology of interactive communication\": A conversational model of inquiry privileging the ways in which we are part of the world we investigate, and the communicative ways we make the world and change it.\n\n\"Institutional depression\": A pattern of anxiety, hopelessness, demoralization, isolation, and disharmony circulating through an organization.\n\n\"Self-narratives\" (\"autoethnographies\"): Existential stories reflecting a desire to grasp or seize the possibilities of meaning, moving readers and listeners to understand and feel the phenomena under scrutiny.\n\n\"Memory as ethical inquiry\": An interrogation of memory central to autoethnographic research, one recognizing the important connection between the present in which we remember and the past of which we remember.\n\n\"Vulnerable medicine\": A reflexive relatedness making it possible for a physician to be vividly and ethically in the presence of a person (patient) on the edge of oblivion, at the end of life.\n\n\"Genre-bending narration\": In the human (interpretive sciences), forms of storytelling – dialogues, metalogues, performative or poetic representations – that enact experiences while reflecting on them.\n\nThe Arthur P. Bochner Award is given annually to the top doctoral student in Communication at the University of South Florida.\n\nThe Ellis-Bochner Autoethnography and Personal Narrative Research Award is given annually by the Society for the Study of Symbolic Interaction affiliate of the National Communication Association for the best article, essay, or book chapter in autoethnography and personal narrative research.\n\nBochner resides in Tampa with his partner, Carolyn Ellis, and their two dogs, Buddha and Zen. During summers, they live in the mountains of North Carolina. They enjoy hiking, reading, gardening, and writing together \n\nBochner, A. (2014). Coming to Narrative: A Personal History of Paradigm Change in the Human Sciences. Walnut Creek, CA: Left Coast Press.\n\nBochner, A., & Riggs, N. (2014). Practicing narrative inquiry. In P. Leavy (Ed.), Handbook of Qualitative Methods (pp. 195–222). New York: Oxford University Press.\n\nBochner, A. (2012). Bird on the wire: Freeing the father within me. Qualitative Inquiry, 18, 168-173.\n\nBochner, A. (2009). Warm ideas and chilling consequences. International Review of Qualitative Research, 2, 357-370.\n\nBochner, A. (2001). Narratives Virtues. Qualitative Inquiry, 7, 131-157.\n\nEllis, C., & Bochner, A. (2000). Autoethnography, Personal Narrative, Reflexivity: Researcher as Subject. In N. Denzin & Y. Lincoln (Eds.), The Handbook of Qualitative Research (2ND Edition)(pp. 733–768). Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage.\n\nBochner, A. (1997). It’s About Time: Narrative and the Divided Self. Qualitative Inquiry, 3, 418-438.\n"}
{"id": "22662840", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22662840", "title": "Australasian Journal of Bone &amp; Joint Medicine", "text": "Australasian Journal of Bone &amp; Joint Medicine\n\nThe Australasian Journal of Bone & Joint Medicine (originally titled the Australasian Journal of Musculoskeletal Medicine) was a periodical presented in the style of a scientific journal, published by Elsevier but established and funded by pharmaceutical company Merck. Publication began in 2002, and the last issue appeared in 2005. According to \"The Scientist\":\n\nThe publication was not included in the MEDLINE literature database and did not have its own website.\n\nIn May 2009, Elsevier admitted that a series of similar industry sponsored publications had been produced, and that \"high standards for disclosure were not followed in this instance\". In a formal statement, the CEO of Elsevier's Health Sciences Division, Michael Hansen, admitted that the practice was \"unacceptable\", and expressed regret for the publications. Merck has denied claims that articles within it were ghost written by Merck and has stated that the articles were all reprinted from peer-reviewed medical journals.\n\nSeveral medical experts stated that their names were included in the Honorary Editorial Board of the \"Australasian Journal of Bone and Joint Medicine\" without their knowledge and consent.\n\nThere were six such \"industry-sponsored\" publications brought out by Elsevier without proper disclosure of their nature, and which had the superficial appearance of a legitimate independent journal. The six publications involved were\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40678189", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40678189", "title": "Bias–variance tradeoff", "text": "Bias–variance tradeoff\n\nIn statistics and machine learning, the bias–variance tradeoff is the property of a set of predictive models whereby models with a lower bias in parameter estimation have a higher variance of the parameter estimates across samples, and vice versa. The bias–variance dilemma or problem is the conflict in trying to simultaneously minimize these two sources of error that prevent supervised learning algorithms from generalizing beyond their training set:\n\nThe bias–variance decomposition is a way of analyzing a learning algorithm's expected generalization error with respect to a particular problem as a sum of three terms, the bias, variance, and a quantity called the \"irreducible error\", resulting from noise in the problem itself.\n\nThis tradeoff applies to all forms of supervised learning: classification, regression (function fitting), and structured output learning. It has also been invoked to explain the effectiveness of heuristics in human learning.\n\nThe bias-variance tradeoff is a central problem in supervised learning. Ideally, one wants to choose a model that both accurately captures the regularities in its training data, but also generalizes well to unseen data. Unfortunately, it is typically impossible to do both simultaneously. High-variance learning methods may be able to represent their training set well but are at risk of overfitting to noisy or unrepresentative training data. In contrast, algorithms with low variance typically produce simpler models that don't tend to overfit but may \"underfit\" their training data, failing to capture important regularities.\n\nModels with low bias are usually more complex (e.g. higher-order regression polynomials), enabling them to represent the training set more accurately. In the process, however, they may also represent a large noise component in the training set, making their predictions less accurate - despite their added complexity. In contrast, models with higher bias tend to be relatively simple (low-order or even linear regression polynomials) but may produce lower variance predictions when applied beyond the training set.\n\nSuppose that we have a training set consisting of a set of points formula_1 and real values formula_2 associated with each point formula_3. We assume that there is a function with noise formula_4, where the noise, formula_5, has zero mean and variance formula_6.\n\nWe want to find a function formula_7, that approximates the true function formula_8 as well as possible, by means of some learning algorithm. We make \"as well as possible\" precise by measuring the mean squared error between formula_9 and formula_7: we want formula_11 to be minimal, both for formula_1 \"and for points outside of our sample\". Of course, we cannot hope to do so perfectly, since the formula_2 contain noise formula_5; this means we must be prepared to accept an \"irreducible error\" in any function we come up with.\n\nFinding an formula_15 that generalizes to points outside of the training set can be done with any of the countless algorithms used for supervised learning. It turns out that whichever function formula_15 we select, we can decompose its expected error on an unseen sample formula_17 as follows:\n\nwhere\n\nand\n\nThe expectation ranges over different choices of the training set formula_21, all sampled from the same joint distribution formula_22. The three terms represent:\n\nThe more complex the model formula_7 is, the more data points it will capture, and the lower the bias will be. However, complexity will make the model \"move\" more to capture the data points, and hence its variance will be larger.\n\nThe derivation of the bias–variance decomposition for squared error proceeds as follows.\nFor notational convenience, abbreviate formula_28 and formula_29. First, recall that, by definition, for any random variable formula_30, we have\n\nRearranging, we get:\n\nSince formula_33 is deterministic\n\nThis, given formula_35 and formula_36, implies formula_37.\n\nAlso, since formula_38\n\nThus, since formula_5 and formula_15 are independent, we can write\n\nThe bias–variance decomposition forms the conceptual basis for regression regularization methods such as Lasso and ridge regression. Regularization methods introduce bias into the regression solution that can reduce variance considerably relative to the ordinary least squares (OLS) solution. Although the OLS solution provides non-biased regression estimates, the lower variance solutions produced by regularization techniques provide superior MSE performance.\n\nThe bias–variance decomposition was originally formulated for least-squares regression. For the case of classification under the 0-1 loss (misclassification rate), it is possible to find a similar decomposition. Alternatively, if the classification problem can be phrased as probabilistic classification, then the expected squared error of the predicted probabilities with respect to the true probabilities can be decomposed as before.\n\nDimensionality reduction and feature selection can decrease variance by simplifying models. Similarly, a larger training set tends to decrease variance. Adding features (predictors) tends to decrease bias, at the expense of introducing additional variance. Learning algorithms typically have some tunable parameters that control bias and variance; for example,\n\nOne way of resolving the trade-off is to use mixture models and ensemble learning.\nFor example, boosting combines many \"weak\" (high bias) models in an ensemble that has lower bias than the individual models, while bagging combines \"strong\" learners in a way that reduces their variance.\n\nIn the case of -nearest neighbors regression, a closed-form expression exists that relates the bias–variance decomposition to the parameter :\n\nwhere formula_44 are the nearest neighbors of in the training set. The bias (first term) is a monotone rising function of , while the variance (second term) drops off as is increased. In fact, under \"reasonable assumptions\" the bias of the first-nearest neighbor (1-NN) estimator vanishes entirely as the size of the training set approaches infinity.\n\nWhile widely discussed in the context of machine learning, the bias-variance dilemma has been examined in the context of human cognition, most notably by Gerd Gigerenzer and co-workers in the context of learned heuristics. They have argued (see references below) that the human brain resolves the dilemma in the case of the typically sparse, poorly-characterised training-sets provided by experience by adopting high-bias/low variance heuristics. This reflects the fact that a zero-bias approach has poor generalisability to new situations, and also unreasonably presumes precise knowledge of the true state of the world. The resulting heuristics are relatively simple, but produce better inferences in a wider variety of situations.\n\nGeman et al. argue that the bias-variance dilemma implies that abilities such as generic object recognition cannot be learned from scratch, but require a certain degree of “hard wiring” that is later tuned by experience. This is because model-free approaches to inference require impractically large training sets if they are to avoid high variance.\n"}
{"id": "40402980", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40402980", "title": "Claire Colebrook", "text": "Claire Colebrook\n\nClaire Colebrook (or Claire Mary Colebrook) (born 25 October 1965), is an Australian cultural theorist, currently appointed Edwin Erle Sparks Professor of English at Pennsylvania State University. She has published numerous works on Gilles Deleuze, visual art, poetry, queer theory, film studies, contemporary literature, theory, cultural studies and visual culture. She is the editor (with Tom Cohen) of the Critical Climate Change Book Series at Open Humanities Press.\n\nColebrook's education consists of a Bachelor of Arts taken at the University of Melbourne (1987), a Bachelor of Letters at Australian National University (1989) and a Doctor of Philosophy earned at the University of Edinburgh (1993).\n\nShe is the author of:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28842282", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28842282", "title": "DatabaseObjects", "text": "DatabaseObjects\n\nThe DatabaseObjects library is an open source tool for mapping relational database systems (MySQL, SQL Server, SQL Server Compact Edition, SQLite, Microsoft Access, Pervasive and HyperSQL) to an object-oriented structures. The library can simplify the development and maintenance of small and large systems by providing a mechanism to consolidate business logic, maintain data integrity, increasing productivity and minimise errors. The library is available for VB6, .NET and iOS/MonoTouch development environments.\n\nThe DatabaseObjects library contains a large set of classes that interface to the underlying database system automatically generating the required SELECT, UPDATE, INSERT and DELETE commands. It also supports CREATE/ALTER TABLE, CREATE/ALTER INDEX, table joins, arithmetic expressions, aggregates, grouping, ordering, unions, support for all common data types and more. The .NET and VB6 versions of the library both support access to Microsoft Access, SQL Server and MySQL database systems. The Pervasive database system is only supported in the .NET version of the library.\n\nImplementing a database table using classes and the DatabaseObjects library involves creating two classes. The first class, represents a database table, while the second class represent each database record in the table. For the classes to \"hook into\" the library the first class (or collection class) must inherit from DatabaseObjects while the second class must inherit from DatabaseObject. By inheriting from DatabaseObjects the collection class can specify which table it is tied to, the table's unique field, whether it should only represent a subset of the table, how the table should be sorted, if there are any related tables, etc. while the second class can specify how a database record is to be copied to and from the class. The MustOverride functions in the DatabaseObjects class are used to automatically generate the appropriate SQL statements for common database functions such as inserting a new record, updating an existing record, searching through a table, enumerating through a set of records, returning the number of records in a table, etc.\n\nThe diagram below depicts how a Products database table might be implemented using the library. Two classes would be required; a Products class that inherits from DatabaseObjects and a Product class that inherits from DatabaseObject. Once the MustOverride functions have been implemented the library can then be used with the DatabaseObjects library's set of predefined, generic functions to automatically generate and execute the necessary SQL statements. For example, the Count property in the Products class could call one of the predefined DatabaseObjects functions: DatabaseObjects.ObjectsCount. This function creates an SQL statement using the value returned from DatabaseObjects.TableName (in this case \"Products\") to generate the following:\n\nThe SQL statement is then executed and the result returned. If the DatabaseObjects.ObjectsCount function was called by passing a Customers class which had implemented DatabaseObjects.TableName to return \"Customers\" then the DatabaseObjects.ObjectsCount function would generate and execute the statement:\n\nThis technique is used by the DatabaseObjects library and it's set of generic functions to provide the mapping between a relational database and an object-oriented structure.\n\n"}
{"id": "36941155", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36941155", "title": "Discourse, Figure", "text": "Discourse, Figure\n\nDiscourse, Figure () is a 1971 book by the philosopher Jean-François Lyotard. It is considered his first major work.\n\n"}
{"id": "10275562", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10275562", "title": "Ernan McMullin", "text": "Ernan McMullin\n\nErnan McMullin (October 13, 1924 – February 8, 2011) was a philosopher who last served as the O’Hara Professor of Philosophy Emeritus at the University of Notre Dame. He was an internationally respected philosopher of science who has written and lectured extensively on subjects ranging from the relationship between cosmology and theology, to the role of values in understanding science, to the impact of Darwinism on Western religious thought. He is the only person to ever hold the presidency of four of the major US philosophical associations. He was an expert on the life of Galileo.\n\nMcMullin was born on October 13, 1924 in Ballybofey and died on February 8, 2011, in Letterkenny in his native County Donegal, Ireland.\n\n\nHe was a visiting professor at the University of Minnesota, the University of Cape Town, the University of California at Los Angeles, Princeton University, and Yale University. A former Phi Beta Kappa National Lecturer, he delivered the Cardinal Mercier Lecturer at the (Flemish) University of Leuven in 1995 and the Reynolds Lecture at Baylor University in 2005. He also served on numerous scholarly committees and congresses worldwide and is the only person ever to have been elected president of all the following professional organizations: the American Philosophical Association (1984), the Philosophy of Science Association, the Metaphysical Society of America (1974) and the American Catholic Philosophical Association. He served as the chair of the History and Philosophy of Science Section of the AAAS, as a member of the executive committees of the History of Science Society, the Council for Philosophical Studies, and the Society of Christian Philosophers, and as a member of numerous scholarly and scientific committees, congresses, and panels. A fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, the International Academy of the History of Science, and the AAAS, he was an honorary fellow of St. Edmund's College, Cambridge, and was awarded honorary degrees by the National University of Ireland at Maynooth, Loyola University (Chicago), Stonehill College, and University of Notre Dame.\n\nAmong other honors, he won the Aquinas Medal of the American Catholic Philosophical Association, the Centennial Medal of John Carroll University, the Founder’s Medal of the Metaphysical Society of America, and two Notre Dame faculty awards.\n\nMcMullin was influential on the thought of the eminent philosopher of biology Michael Ruse.\n\nFather McMullin wrote and lectured widely on subjects ranging from the relationship between cosmology and theology, to the role of values in understanding science, to the impact of Darwinism on Western religious thought. He also was an unrivalled expert on the life of Galileo.\n\nMcMullin served on the editorial boards of a dozen academic journals and encyclopedia. At the time of his death he was a member of the editorial boards of Perspectives on Science, International Studies in the Philosophy of Science, Studies in the History and Philosophy of Science, and International Philosophical Studies. The author of some 200 articles in scholarly and popular journals, Father McMullin also published 14 books including:\n\n\nThe author of numerous scholarly articles and the editor of a series of monographs on logic published in the mid-1960s by Prentice Hall, he also edited ten other books.\nAmong his edited volumes:\n\n\nJust before his death, he was working on a study on rationality, realism, and the growth of knowledge.\n"}
{"id": "35380750", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35380750", "title": "Evgeny Torchinov", "text": "Evgeny Torchinov\n\nEvgeny Torchinov (Russian Евгений Алексеевич Торчинов), (August 22, 1956 – July 12, 2003), was a Russian sinologist, Buddhist scholar, professor, and translator. He was best known as an eminent Russian researcher of ancient Chinese religion and philosophy, author of many books and translations of classical Chinese texts (especially Buddhist and Taoist) into Russian. He founded the chair of Eastern philosophy and cultures at St. Petersburg State University.\n\nEvgeny Torchinov was born on August 22, 1956, in the city of Ordzhonikidze (then USSR), and soon his family moved to Saratov. After graduation from high-school in 1973, Torchinov was admitted to the Faculty of Oriental Studies of Leningrad (now Saint Petersburg) State University, where he majored in Chinese philology. After graduation in 1978, he became a Ph.D. candidate at the State Museum of History of Religion and Atheism, where he worked as a research fellow from 1981 to 1984. From 1984 and until 1994, he worked as researcher at the St.Petersburg branch of the Institute of Oriental Studies of the Academy of Sciences.\n\nIn 1994, he defended his second doctoral dissertation entitled \"Taoism: An attempt of historical-religious description\". In 1998, he became the Chair of Philosophy of Religion and Religious Studies at St. Petersburg State University, and in 1999 created and led as the chair of Oriental Philosophy and Cultures.\n\nTorchinov began to consider himself a Buddhist in 1975. He was the official representative in Russia and a member of the Board of directors of, consultant and laic Buddhist lecturer for Buddha's Light International Association, and president of St. Petersburg Buddhist association \"Fo Guan (Buddha's Light)\". Torchinov called himself off-sect Buddhist.\n\nHe also worked as a visiting professor at the University of Saskatchewan in Saskatoon, Saskatchewan, Canada.\n\nTorchinov died on July 12, 2003, in Saint Petersburg.\n\nTorchinov made contributions to Taoism studies and translation of classical Taoist treatises. In his doctoral thesis he provided a detailed review of Taoism, its history, schools and concepts, relying on Chinese sources and global sinology. Later, he had the Taoist review published as a monograph aimed for non-specialist audience.\n\nMany of Torchinov's publications give an insight into the practical aspects of Taoism such as Outer Alchemy, Inner Alchemy, meditation techniques, afterlife techniques, and esoteric sex practices.\n\nTorchinov's long studies of Buddhism resulted in publication of an academic manual, \"Introduction to Buddhology\".\n\nHis academic interest in this field was focused on Mahajana and Far East Buddhism. He translated several authoritative Buddhist works from Chinese and Old Chinese into Russian, including \"The Treatise on evocation of trust in Mahajana\".\n\nTorchinov translated a number of Ch'an Buddhism treatises, classical and modern.\n\nGeneralizing his religious studies, Torchinov released a book entitled \"Religions of the world: Experience of the Transcendence\" dealing with transcendental states of consciousness and psychic techniques. The book provides in-depth analyses of Shamanism, ancient religions, sects, and modern world religions.\n\nTorchinov wrote several works in comparative religious studies. Some of his works are also dedicated to Kabbalah.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36079506", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36079506", "title": "False pleasure", "text": "False pleasure\n\nFalse pleasure may be a pleasure based on a false belief (as of supposedly having come into money), or a pleasure compared with more real, or greater pleasures.\n\nLacan maintained that philosophers should seek to \"discern not true pleasures from false, for such a distinction is impossible to make, but the true and false goods that pleasure points to\".\n\nPlato devoted much attention to the belief that \"no pleasure save that of the wise is quite true and pure - all others are shadows only\" - both in The Republic and in his late dialogue Philebus.\n\nAugustine saw false pleasure as focused on the body, as well as pervading the dramatic and rhetorical entertainments of his time.\n\nBuddhaghosa considered that \"sense-pleasures are impermanent, deceptive, trivial...unstable, unreal, hollow, and uncertain\" - a view echoed in most of what Max Weber termed \"world-rejecting asceticism\".\n\nA specific false pleasure often denounced in Western thought is the pleasure of vanity - Voltaire for example pillorying the character \"corrupted by vanity...He breathed in nothing but false glory and false pleasures\".\n\nSimilarly John Ruskin contrasted the adult's pursuit of the false pleasure of vanity with the way the child does not seek false pleasures; its pleasures are true, simple, and instinctive\".\n\nSexual intercourse is sometimes seen as a true pleasure (or false one), contrasted with the less real pleasures of the past, as with Donne's \"countrey pleasures, childishly\".\n\nIn the wake of Reich, a distinction was sometimes made between reactive and genuine sexuality - analysis supposedly allowing people to \"realize the enormous difference between what they once believed sexual pleasure to be and what they now experience\".\n\nPopular culture has been a central arena for latter-day disputes over true and false pleasures. Modernism saw attacks on the false pleasures of consumerism from the right, as well as from the left, with Herbert Marcuse denouncing the false pleasures of happy consciousness of \"those whose life is the hell of the affluent society\".\n\nFrom another angle, Richard Hoggart contrasted the immediate, real pleasures of the working-class from the increasingly ersatz diet fed them by the media.\n\nAs the 20th Century wore on, however - while concern for the contrast of false and authentic pleasures, fragmented or integrated experiences, certainly remained - the mass media increasingly became less of a scapegoat for the prevalence of false pleasure, figures like Frederic Jameson for example insisting instead on \"the false problem of value\" in a world where \"reification or materialization is a key structural feature of both modernism and mass culture\".\n\nSlavoj Žižek had added a further twist to the debate for the 21st century, arguing that in a postmodern age dominated by what he calls \"the superego injunction to enjoy that permeates our discourse\", the quest for pleasure has become more of a duty than a pleasure: for Žižek, \"psychoanalysis is the only discipline in which you are allowed \"not\" to enjoy\" !\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3876658", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3876658", "title": "Fleeing felon rule", "text": "Fleeing felon rule\n\nAt common law, the fleeing felon rule permits the use of force, including deadly force, against an individual who is suspected of a felony and is in clear flight. According to David Caplan \"Immediate stopping of the fleeing felon, whether actually or presumably dangerous, was deemed absolutely necessary for the security of the people in a free state, and for maintaining the \"public security.\" ... \" Indeed, it has been said that the social policy of the common law in this matter was not only to threaten dangerous felons and hence deter them, but was also to induce them to \"surrender peaceably\" if they dared commit inherently dangerous felonies, rather than allow them to \"escape trial for their crimes.\" \n\nUnder U.S. law the fleeing felon rule was limited in 1985 to non-lethal force in most cases by \"Tennessee v. Garner,\" . The justices held that deadly force \"may not be used unless necessary to prevent the escape and the officer has probable cause to believe that the suspect poses a significant threat of death or serious bodily harm to the officer or others.\"\n\nFleeing felons may be followed into places not open to the public without a warrant if the officer is in \"hot pursuit.\" Deadly force that is executed by a co-defendant against an accomplice is not justified by the fleeing felon rule.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44323974", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44323974", "title": "Geoethics", "text": "Geoethics\n\nGeoethics is the branch of ethics which relates to the interaction of human activity with our physical world in general, and with the practice of the Earth sciences in particular. It may also have relevance to planetary sciences. It is described as an emerging scientific discipline, consisted of research and reflection on values that serve as the bases of behavior and practice where human activities intersect with the geosphere. It is promoted to encourage the ethical and social roles of geoscientists in conducting research and practice activities. \n\nGeoethics first emerged in the early 1990s out of the initiatives that pursued the recognition of mankind's duty and responsibility towards the earth. The term came to deal with the ethical, social, and cultural implications of the behavior and professional activities of geologists. Some scholars also cited that it provides a point of intersection for geosciences, sociology, and philosophy.\n\nThere are two international geoethics organizations, the International Association for Promoting Geoethics and the International Association for Geoethics.\n"}
{"id": "29838606", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29838606", "title": "George F. McLean", "text": "George F. McLean\n\nGeorge Francis McLean (June 29, 1929 - September 6, 2016) was a Professor Emeritus at the School of Philosophy of The Catholic University of America (CUA), Washington, D.C., and Director of its Centre for the Study of Culture and Values (CSCV).\n\nHe lectured internationally, promoting global philosophical dialogue and cooperation. Likewise, he invited scholars from many countries to participate in seminars in Washington, D.C.\n\nHe served as founding President of The Council for Research in Values and Philosophy (RVP) and general editor of its 300 volume publication series, \"Cultural Heritage and Contemporary Change\".\n\nProfessor McLean believed that many philosophical traditions, cultures, and schools seek the truth. His metaphor for this is that these are many roads that converge in “the holy mountain.”\n\nPublished in The Council for Research in Values and Philosophy (RVP) series: \"Cultural Heritage and Contemporary Change\"\n\nSeries I. Culture and Values\n\nI.1 \"Research on Culture and Values: Intersection of Universities, Churches and Nations\"; George F. McLean, ed. (paper); 081917352-5 (cloth)\n\nI.3 \"Reading Philosophy for the XXIst Century\"; George F. McLean, ed. (paper); 0819174149 (cloth)\n\nI.16 \"Civil Society and Social Reconstruction\"; George F. McLean, ed. (paper)\n\nI.17 \"Ways to God, Personal and Social, at the Turn of the Millennia: The Iqbal Lectures, Lahore\"; George F. McLean. (paper)\n\nI.20 \"Faith, Reason and Philosophy: Lectures at The al-Azhar, Qom, Tehran,Lahore and Beijing; Appendix: The Encyclical Letter: Fides et Ratio\"; George F. McLean. (paper)\n\nI.21 \"Religion and the Cooperation between Civilizations: Islamic and Christian Cultures in a Global Horizon\"; George F. McLean. (paper)\n\nI.22 \"Freedom, Cultural Traditions and Progress: Philosophy in Civil Society and Nation Building, Tashkent Lectures, 1999\"; George F. McLean. (paper)\n\nI.29 \"Persons, Peoples and Cultures in a Global Age: Metaphysical Bases for Peace between Civilizations\"; George F. McLean. (paper)\n\nI.37 \"Beyond Modernity: The Recovery of Person and Community in Global Times: Lectures in China and Vietnam\"; George F. McLean. (paper)\n\nI.38 \"Religion and Culture\"; George F. McLean. (paper)\n\nI.40 \"Unity and Harmony, Love and Compassion in Global Times\"; George F. McLean. (paper)\n\nSeries IIA. Islam\n\nIIA.17 \"Hermeneutics, Faith, and Relations between Cultures: Lectures in Qom, Iran\"; George F. McLean. (paper)\n\nSeries III. Asia\n\nIII.5 \"Tradition, Harmony and Transcendence\"; George F. McLean. (paper); 156518030-5 (cloth)\n\nIII.19 \"God and the Discovery of Man: Classical and Contemporary Approaches: Lectures in Wuhan, China\"; George F. McLean. (paper)\n\nIIIB.7 \"Hermeneutics, Tradition and Contemporary Change: Lectures In Chennai/Madras, India: Indian Philosophical Studies, VII\"; George F. McLean. (paper). 2004\n\nIIIB.8 \"Plenitude and Participation: The Life of God in Man: Lectures in Chennai/Madras, India\"; George F. McLean. (paper)\n\nIIID.2 \"Hermeneutics for a Global Age: Lectures in Shanghai and Hanoi\"; George F. McLean. (paper).\n\nBooks Dedicated to Professor George F. McLean on the occasion of his 75th birthday\n\n\nBooks dedicated to Professor George F. McLean on his 80th birthday\n\n"}
{"id": "13865575", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13865575", "title": "Ghost lawyer", "text": "Ghost lawyer\n\nA ghost lawyer is a lawyer who writes for other lawyers without assuming credit. Ghost lawyers often offer their services to other lawyers who need help on a project-by-project basis without wanting to take on a full associate. There are concerns about the ethics of ghost lawyers with regard to pro se litigants, but most states permit the practice.\n"}
{"id": "22820992", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22820992", "title": "Henology", "text": "Henology\n\nHenology (from Greek ἕν \"hen\", \"one\") refers to the philosophical account or discourse on \"The One\" that appears most notably in the philosophy of Plotinus. Reiner Schürmann describes it as a \"metaphysics of radical transcendence\" that extends beyond being and intellection. It can be contrasted with ontology, as ontology is \"an account of being\" whereas henology is an \"account of unity.\"\n\nHenology stands in contradistinction to several other philosophical disciplines. The term \"henology\" refers to the discipline that centers around The One, as in the philosophies of Plato and Plotinus. It is sometimes used in contradistinction to disciplines that treat Being as its starting point (as in Aristotle and Avicenna) and also to those that seek to understand Knowledge and Truth (as in Kant and Descartes).\n\n"}
{"id": "535669", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=535669", "title": "Hermann Cohen", "text": "Hermann Cohen\n\nHermann Cohen (4 July 1842 – 4 April 1918) was a German Jewish philosopher, one of the founders of the Marburg School of Neo-Kantianism, and he is often held to be \"probably the most important Jewish philosopher of the nineteenth century\".\n\nCohen was born in Coswig, Anhalt. He early began to study philosophy, and soon became known as a profound Kant scholar. He was educated at the Gymnasium at Dessau, at the Jewish Theological Seminary of Breslau, and at the universities of Breslau, Berlin, and Halle. In 1873, he became \"Privatdozent\" in the philosophical faculty of the University of Marburg, the thesis with which he obtained the \"venia legendi\" being \"Die systematischen Begriffe in Kant's vorkritischen Schriften nach ihrem Verhältniss zum kritischen Idealismus\". Cohen was elected Professor extraordinarius at Marburg in 1875, and Professor ordinarius in the following year (see: \"Academic ranks in Germany\").\n\nHe was one of the founders of the \"Gesellschaft zur Förderung der Wissenschaft des Judenthums\", which held its first meeting in Berlin in November 1902.\n\nCohen edited and published Friedrich Albert Lange's final philosophical work (\"Logische Studien\", Leipzig, 1877). Cohen edited and wrote several versions of a long introduction and critical supplement to Lange's \"Geschichte des Materialismus\".\n\nHe devoted three early volumes to the interpretation of Kant (\"Kant's Theory of Experience\", \"Kant's Foundations of Ethics\", and \"Kant's Foundations of Aesthetics\"), in 1902 he began publishing the three eminent volumes of his own systematic philosophy: \"Logik der reinen Erkenntnis\" (1902), \"Ethik des reinen Willens\" (1904) and \"Ästhetik des reinen Gefühls\" (1912). The planned fourth volume on psychology was never written.\n\nHis writings relating more especially to Judaism include several pamphlets, among them \"Die Kulturgeschichtliche Bedeutung des Sabbat,\" 1881; \"Ein Bekenntniss in der Judenfrage,\" Berlin, 1880; as well as the following articles: \"Das Problem der Jüdischen Sittenlehre,\" in the \"Monatsschrift,\" xliii. (1899), pp. 385–400, 433–449; \"Liebe und Gerechtigkeit in den Begriffen Gott und Mensch.\" in \"Jahrbuch für Jüdische Geschichte und Litteratur,\" III. (1900), pp. 75–132; \"Autonomie und Freiheit,\" in the \"Gedenkbuch für David Kaufmann,\" 1900.\n\nCohen's most famous Jewish works include: \"Religion der Vernunft aus den Quellen des Judentums\" (\"Religion of Reason out of the Sources of Judaism\", 1919), \"Deutschtum und Judentum\", \"Die Naechstenliebe im Talmud\", and \"Die Ethik des Maimonides\".\nHis essay \"Die Nächstenliebe im Talmud\" was written at the request of the Marburg Königliches Landgericht (3d ed., Marburg, 1888).\nCohen's Jewish writings are collected in his \"Jüdische Schriften\" (3 vols. ed. Bruno Strauss, Berlin 1924). There is an ongoing new academic edition of Cohen's works, edited by Helmut Holzhey, Hartwig Wiedebach u.a. (Olms, Hildesheim 1977 ff.)\nAn English translation of some of his Jewish writings is available in \"Reason and Hope: Selections from the Jewish Writings of Hermann Cohen\", translated by Eva Jospe, NY 1971.\n\nCohen was outspokenly opposed to Zionism and its aspiration to create a Jewish state and thus \"return the Jews to History\". In his view, Judaism was inherently a-historical, with a spiritual and moral mission far transcending the nationalist aims of Zionism.\n\nDespite the above attitude to Zionism, Tel Aviv has a Hermann Cohen Street.\n\nCohen is buried at the Weißensee Cemetery in Berlin.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38543721", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38543721", "title": "Ideology of the SS", "text": "Ideology of the SS\n\nThe ideology espoused by the \"Schutzstaffel\" (\"Protection Squadron\"; SS), a paramilitary force and instrument of terror of the Nazi Party in Nazi Germany, emphasized a racist vision of \"racial purity\", antisemitism, and loyalty to Adolf Hitler and Nazi Germany.\n\nSS men were indoctrinated with the belief they were members of a \"master race\". The ideology of the SS was, even more so than in Nazism in general, built on the belief in a superior \"Aryan race\". This led to the SS playing the main role in political violence and crimes against humanity, including the Holocaust and \"mercy killing\" of those with congenital illnesses. After the defeat of Nazi Germany in World War II, the SS and Nazi Party were found to be criminal organizations at the Nuremberg Trials.\n\nThe ideology of the SS was built upon and mainly congruent with Nazi ideology. At its center laid the belief in a superior \"Nordic race\" and the \"inferiority\" of other races. The SS also served as the central institution for the extension of Nazi ideology and its realisation. Representing the ideological opponents of the regime in one form or fashion, historian George C. Browder identified the Nazi state's list of enemies as follows: enemy states, miscegenation, the Jews, Catholicism, freemasonry, Communism, the Republic (hostility directed at the liberal republican constitution and form of government), homosexuality, moral decay, capitalists, and the \"Old Guard\" (hate and fear of traditionally powerful influences and institutions of the old society as unjust, retarding influences in German society). All of these \"enemies\" became the focus of the main power instrument of Nazi totalitarianism, the SS, as they sought to direct and influence ideology and ethics within the Reich.\n\nHimmler intended the SS to be a hierarchical system of \"ideological fighters\" from the organization's inception. The SS proved to be that and more, becoming the instrument most responsible for the actualization of Nazi beliefs. SS ideology comprised perhaps the single most significant philosophical dimension of Nazism, employing ontological, anthropological, and ethical elements to their methods under the guise of science, shaping the Nazi state's doctrine and crystallizing ideals (no matter how callous) into dogmatic truths. SS principles and thinking provided pseudo-scientific rationales for the devaluation of humanity, and ideological justification for Nazi violence and genocide.\nThe SS placed an intense emphasis in their indoctrination upon elitism and portrayed themselves as part of an \"elite\" order which \"explicitly modelled [themselves] on an historical version of religious orders, such as the Teutonic Knights or the Jesuits, whose dedication to a higher idea was admired in these otherwise anti-clerical circles\".\nEven though Himmler and the other SS leaders repeatedly demanded sobriety within their ranks, alcoholism was a frequent problem. For example, between 1937–38 some 700 members were excluded from the SS for \"listlessness and laziness.\" In the same period a further 12,000 left the SS for unknown reasons, calling into question the institution's claims of \"loyalty for life\".\n\nThe strict training program was focused on the fundamental ideological principles of the Nazi Party, namely the belief in a \"superior Nordic race\", loyalty and absolute obedience to Adolf Hitler, and hatred for those who were considered \"inferior people\", with great emphasis on antisemitism. Students studied the most anti-Semitic passages of \"Mein Kampf\" (\"My Struggle\"), Hitler's autobiographical manifesto, and the \"Protocols of the Elders of Zion\", a fraudulent anti-Semitic document first published in Russia in 1903, which purported to describe a Jewish plan for global domination. The SS educational leaders were also responsible for general anti-religious training, which was part of the Nazi attempt at \"reversing the bourgeois-Christian system of values.\" Educational training was clearly linked with \"racial selection, at the end of which stood the 'weeding out' and selective breeding of human beings\"; this facet coincided the impending Nazi effort to Germanize Europe and formed part of the policy for the racial-imperialist conquest in the East.\n\nFollowing the Nazi seizure of power in 1933, membership in the SS grew considerably, prompting an increase in ideological instruction. The \"SS-Schulungsamt\" took over the task of heading the educational matters of the SS, led by Karl Motz. The SS published two additional magazines for ideological propaganda: the monthly \"FM-Zeitschrift\", funded by 350,000 non-member financial patrons of the SS, and the weekly \"Das Schwarze Korps\", the second biggest weekly paper in Nazi Germany. As part of an effort to professionalize their officers, the SS founded a Leadership School in 1934 at the Bavarian town of Bad Tölz; a second school at was established at Braunschweig—these came to be known as Junker Schools.\n\nBeginning in 1938, the SS intensified the ideological indoctrination of the \"Hitler-Jugend Landdienst\" (\"Hitler Youth Land Service\"). It set out the ideal of the German \"Wehrbauer\" (\"Soldier Peasant\"). Special high schools were created under SS control to form a Nazi agrarian \"elite\" that was trained according to the principle of \"blood and soil\". While SS leader Heinrich Himmler remained concerned about the racial elitism of his SS, it was Reinhard Heydrich, Himmler's deputy and protégé, who focused his attention on their political indoctrination through the creation of \"racial detectives\" who would become Hitler's \"ideological Shock Troops\". This being done through the \"Sicherheitsdienst\" (Security Service; SD) which was tasked with the detection of actual or potential enemies of the Nazi leadership and the neutralization of any opposition. The SD used its organization of agents and informants, all part of the development of an extensive SS state and a totalitarian regime without parallel.\n\nThe SS practiced a wide variety of disciplinary measures, with punishments composed of reprimands, prohibition to wear the uniform, detention, demotion, suspension, and expulsion. Contrary to claims made by many SS-members after 1945, no one had to fear being incarcerated in a concentration camp for delinquencies. Starting in June 1933, the SS had its own courts to deal with crimes and misdemeanors within its ranks. On 17 October 1939, Himmler succeeded in having the SS put under its own special jurisdiction. Once this change occurred, SS-members could no longer be tried in civil courts.\n\nThe SS itself was meritocratic in its general operational structure, following the Nazi principle of \"Volksgemeinschaft\". In contrast to the German army's traditions, officer promotions in the SS were based on the individual's commitment and political reliability, not on Junker status or upper-class family background. Consequently, the SS officer schools offered a military career option for those of modest social background, which was not usually possible in the Wehrmacht. The relationship between officers and soldiers was also less formal than in the regular armed forces. Though SS membership was open to all who met Himmler's eugenic and genealogical standards, many of the men first to enter the SS came from the aristocracy. In addition, academics were twofold over-represented in the SS in comparison to the general population.\n\nConsistent with the eugenic and racial policies of the Third Reich, Himmler advocated racial elitism for his SS members. Racial criteria like proving pure \"Aryan\" lineage back to 1750 or 1800 constituted part of the vetting for entrance into the SS. Throughout the existence of the SS, its members were regularly encouraged to procreate to maintain and increase the \"Aryan-Nordic bloodline\"; the SS members, along with their wives and children, were to become an exclusive racial community (\"Sippengemeinschaft\") within the Nazi state. Along these lines, Himmler stated on 8 November 1937 at a \"Gruppenführer\" meeting in Munich in the officers' quarters:\n\nHitler subscribed to these views and once remarked that the \"elite\" of the future Nazi state would stem from the SS since \"only the SS practices racial selection.\" Wives of SS members were scrutinized accordingly for their \"racial fitness\", and marriages had to be approved through official channels as part of the SS ideological mandate. According to their ideology, SS men were believed to be the bearers of the very best of the so-called Nordic blood, and it was their ideological tenets and scholarly justifications that shaped numerous Nazi actions and policies, merging racial determinism, Nordicism, and antisemitism.\n\nAn SS Doctors' Leader School was established in the small village of Alt-Rehse which encouraged the practice of \"racial hygiene\" and focused on the future of \"German genetic streams\" (\"deutsche Erbströme\"). Medical journal articles written by SS intellectuals stressed the importance of genetic heritage, arguing that \"biology and genetics are the roots from which the National Socialist worldview has derived its knowledge, and from which it continues to derive new strength.\" In order to promote its role as a preserver of the Germanic heritage, the SS founded the \"Ahnenerbe\" institute in 1935. It conducted anthropological, historic, and archeologic studies to provide scientific backing to Himmler's ideological ideas. In the years until 1939, the institute worked in a hybrid state between important findings such as the Viking village Hedeby and erratic studies into the \"Welteislehre\" and medieval witch-hunts, which Himmler thought to have been murders committed by the Roman Catholic church against Germanic women of \"good blood\". After World War II started, the \"Ahnenerbe\" was heavily involved in experiments conducted in concentration camps, costing the lives of thousands of inmates.\n\nNot only was contact with racial \"others\" a concern, but attrition through war was an additional factor. Fear of losing a large percentage of Germanic racial stock once the Second World War began drove SS ideology, as victory in the field could not prevail without a corresponding biological legacy of children to carry on the mission. Himmler stressed that SS men were obliged to procreate to preserve Germany's genetic legacy so the \"master race\" could secure and sustain the \"Thousand Year Reich\" of the future.\n\nHowever, SS men did not fulfill the expectations: at the end of 1938, 57% of the members were still unmarried, only 26% had fathered a child and just 8% had reached Himmler's desired goal of at least four children. Also in 1935, the SS initiated \"Lebensborn\", an association created to provide unmarried, pregnant women of \"good blood\" with opportunities to deliver their children, who were then given up for adoption into families deemed racially suited. The \"Lebensborn\" facilities were situated in remote locations, guaranteeing the anonymity of the women. \"Lebensborn\" was only moderately successful, producing only an estimated 8,000 - 11,000 births in the ten years of its existence.\n\nAfter the beginning of World War II, the SS recruited large numbers of non-Germans from the \"inferior races\" espoused by the Nazi and SS ideology. To justify this contradiction, Himmler began to stress a shared European identity more strongly in the early 1940s, promising that \"all those who are of good blood will be given the possibility to grow into the German \"Volk\"\". According to historian Mark P. Gingerich, of the one million \"Waffen-SS\" men who served during the war, over half were not even German citizens.\nAccording to Himmler biographer Peter Longerich, Himmler saw a main task of the SS to be that of \"acting as the vanguard in overcoming Christianity and restoring a Germanic way of living\" as part of preparations for the coming conflict between \"humans and subhumans\". Longerich writes that, while the Nazi movement as a whole launched itself against Jews and Communists, \"by linking de-Christianisation with re-Germanization, Himmler had provided the SS with a goal and purpose all of its own.\" Himmler was vehemently opposed to Christian sexual morality and the \"principle of Christian mercy\", both of which he saw as a dangerous obstacle to his planned battle with \"subhumans\". In 1937, he said that the movement was an era of the \"ultimate conflict with Christianity\" and that \"It is part of the mission of the SS to give the German people in the next half century the non-Christian ideological foundations on which to lead and shape their lives.\"\n\nThe SS developed an anti-clerical agenda. Chaplains were not allowed in its units for instance (although they were allowed in the regular army). The \"Sicherheitsdienst\" (Security Service; SD) department of the SS and Gestapo under Reinhard Heydrich were used to identify and assist other Nazi organizations in suppressing Catholic influence in the press, youth clubs, schools, publications, \"pilgrimages and processions\".\n\nHimmler used the Jesuits as the model for the SS, since he found they had the core elements of absolute obedience and the cult of the organisation. Hitler is said to have called Himmler \"my Ignatius of Loyola\". As an order, the SS needed a coherent doctrine that would set it apart. Himmler attempted to construct such an ideology, and deduced a \"pseudo-Germanic tradition\" from history. Himmler dismissed the image of Christ as a Jew and rejected Christianity's basic doctrine and its institutions. Starting in 1934, the SS hosted \"solstice ceremonies\" (\"Sonnenwendfeiern\") to increase team spirit within their ranks. In a 1936 memorandum, Himmler set forth a list of approved holidays based on pagan and political precedents meant to wean SS members from their reliance on Christian festivities. In an attempt to replace Christianity and suffuse the SS with a new doctrine, SS-men were able to choose special \"Lebenslauffeste\", substituting common Christian ceremonies such as baptisms, weddings and burials. Since the ceremonies were held in small private circles, it is unknown how many SS-members opted for these kind of celebrations.\n\nMany of the concepts promoted with the SS violated accepted Christian doctrine, but neither Himmler nor his deputy Heydrich expected the Christian church to support their stance on abortion, contraception or sterilization of the unfit – let alone their shared belief in polygamy for the sake of racial propagation. This did not however represent disbelief in a higher power from either man nor did it deter them on their ideological quest. In fact, atheism was banned within the SS as Himmler believed it to be a form of egotism that placed the individual at the center of the universe, and thus constituted a rejection of the SS principle of valuing the collective over the individual. All SS men were required to list themselves as Protestant, Catholic or \"gottgläubig\" (\"Believer in God\"). Himmler preferred the neo-pagan \"expression of spirituality\". Still, by 1938 \"only 21.9 percent of SS members described themselves as \"gottgläubig\", whereas 54 percent remained Protestant and just under 24 percent Catholic.\" Belief in God among the SS did not constitute adherence to traditional Christian doctrine nor were its members consummate theologians, as the SS outright banned certain Christian organizations like the International Bible Research Association, a group whose pacifism the SS rejected. Dissenting religious organizations like the Jehovah's Witnesses were severely persecuted by the SS for their pacifism, failure to participate in elections, non-observance of the Hitler salute, not displaying the Nazi flag, and for their non-participation in Nazi organizations; many were sent to concentration camps where they perished. Heydrich once quipped that any and all opposition to Nazism originated from either \"Jews or politicized clergy.\"\n\nIn order to promote his religious ideas and link them to an alleged Germanic tradition, Himmler began to establish cult sites. The most important of these was the Wewelsburg, close to Paderborn. The SS leased the castle in 1934, after Himmler had first seen it in November 1933 while campaigning with Hitler. Originally planned as a school for high ranking SS-men, the castle soon became the object of far reaching construction plans, with an aim at establishing the Wewelsburg as the \"ideological center\" of the SS and its pseudo-Germanic doctrine. In accordance with the other efforts of Himmler to replace Christian rituals and establish the SS as the Nazi \"elite\", the Wewelsburg received special rooms, such as crypts, a General's hall with a sun wheel embedded in the floor and a crest hall. As a second location, Himmler ordered for a memorial of 4,500 giant foundlings to be placed near Verden an der Aller, the scene of the infamous Massacre of Verden in 782, calling the place \"Sachsenhain\". At the sight of the Externsteine, which at the time was believed to be close to the scene of the Battle of the Teutoburg Forest, Himmler ordered excavations to take place there in order to prove that Christian monks had destroyed a Germanic cult site known as \"Irminsul\" during the Middle Ages. As a last site of Himmler's cult, the SS took over and remodelled Quedlinburg Abbey, burial place of Henry the Fowler, who was celebrated by Himmler for his refusal to be anointed by a Roman bishop.\n\nHimmler also instituted these rites and rituals to try and foster a greater sense of belonging to a fraternal order. For example, each year on the anniversary of the 1923 Beer Hall Putsch, the SS men duty-bound for the military units were sworn in at 10:00 pm in front of Hitler. There by torchlight they swore \"obedience unto death\".\n\nHowever, these attempts to establish a new, neo-pagan religion were not successful. Historian Heinz Höhne observes that the \"neo-pagan customs\" Himmler introduced into the SS \"remained primarily a paper exercise\". Most of Himmler's attempts to link \"old Teutonic\" traditions into the spiritual life of the SS and society at large were criticised by the Church as a form of \"new heathenism.\" Although the SS never endorsed Christian beliefs, the traditional rituals and practices of the Christian faith were generally tolerated and respected. According to Bastian Hein, two reasons contributed to Himmler's \"Ersatz\" religion never catching on: On the one hand, Himmler himself was in a constant search for religious certainty, leaving his doctrine vague and unclear. On the other hand, Hitler personally intervened after the churches lamented the \"neo-heathenish\" tendencies within the SS, telling Himmler and Alfred Rosenberg to \"cut out the cultic nonsense\".\n\nThe SS was built on a culture of violence, which was exhibited in extreme form by the mass murder of civilians and prisoners on the Eastern Front. Historian Hans Buchheim wrote that the mentality and ideal values of the SS men were to be \"hard,\" with no emotions such as love or kindness; hatred for the \"inferior\" and contempt for anyone who was not in the SS; unthinking obedience; \"camaraderie\" with fellow members of the SS; and an intense militarism that saw the SS as part of an \"elite order\" fighting for a better Germany. The principal \"enemy\" of the SS, represented as a force of uncompromising, utter evil and depravity, was \"world Jewry\". Members of the SS were encouraged to fight against the \"Jewish Bolshevik sub-humans\".\n\nThe SS value of \"fighting for fighting's sake\" could be traced back to the values of the front-line German soldiers in World War I and the post-war \"Freikorps\", and in turn led SS members to see violence as the highest possible value, and conventional morality as a hindrance to achieving victory. The SS mentality fostered violence and \"hardness\". The ideal SS man was supposed to be in a state of permanent readiness. As historian Hans Buchheim quips, \"the SS man had to be forever on duty.\" For members of the SS their mentality was such that for them, nothing was impossible no matter how arduous or cruel, to include the \"murder of millions\". SS men who attempted to live by that principle of violence had an unusually high suicide rate. The \"soldierly\" values of the SS were specific to the German post-World War I concept of the \"political soldier\" who was indoctrinated to be a \"fighter\" who would devote his life to struggling for the nation.\n\nAlthough not an SS document, the 1930 book \"Krieg und Krieger\" (\"War and Warriors\"), edited by Ernst Jünger, with contributions by Friedrich Georg Jünger, Friedrich Hielscher, Werner Best and Ernst von Salomon, served as an excellent introduction to the intellectual traditions from which the SS ideal arose. The essays in \"Krieg und Krieger\" called for a revolutionary reorganization of German society, which was to be led by \"heroic\" leaders who would create a \"new moral code\" based upon the idea that life was a never-ending, Social Darwinian \"struggle\" that could only be settled with violence. The book claimed that Germany had only been defeated in the First World War because the country had been insufficiently \"spiritually mobilized\", and what was required to win the next war was the proper sort of \"heroic\" leaders, unhindered by conventional morality, who would do what was necessary to win. The values of the \"heroic realism\" literature gloried the principle and practice of fighting to the death regardless of the military situation.\n\nOut of the intellectual heritage of the \"heroic realism\" literature came a rejection of the traditional values of Christianity and the enlightenment (principles which were considered too sentimental); what emerged in its place was a cold indifference to the value of human life. Marriage of the image of the \"fighter\" from \"heroic realism\" literature and the practical need of the SS to serve as political cadres for the National Socialist state, led to the elevation of the concept of \"duty\" as the highest obligation of the SS man. The SS ethos called for \"achievement for achievement's sake\", where achievement ranked as the highest measurement of success. As such, winning at all costs regardless the sacrifice became a supreme SS virtue. The SS principle of loyalty above all, as reflected in the official slogan \"My honour is loyalty\", was severed from traditional moral considerations and instead focused entirely upon Hitler. The idealized and distorted version of German history, which the organisation espoused, was intended to instill pride in members of the SS. Himmler admonished the SS against pity, neighborly love, and humility, instead celebrating hardness and self-discipline. Indoctrinating the SS to perceive racial \"others\" and state enemies as undeserving of their pity, helped create an environment and a mental framework where the men saw acts of wanton violence against those same enemies, not as a crime, but part of their patriotic obligation to the Nazi state.\n\nAs historian Claudia Koonz points out, \"the cerebral racism of the SS provided the mental armor for mass murderers.\" When Himmler visited Minsk and witnessed a mass killing of 100 people, he made a speech to the executioners emphasizing the need to put orders over conscience, saying that \"soldiers ... had to carry out every order unconditionally\". According to historian George Stein, unquestioning obedience and \"submission to authority\" on the part of the SS represented one of the ideological \"foundation stones\" to combat the party's enemies. As the \"Waffen-SS\" took part in the invasions of eastern European countries and the Soviet Union, the men wrote of their \"great service in saving western civilization from being overrun by Asiatic Communism.\"\n\nOne \"Waffen-SS\" recruiting pamphlet told potential members that answering the call meant being \"especially bound to the National Socialist ideology,\" a doctrine which implied both an ideological battle and a racial struggle against subhumans (\"Untermenschen\") accompanied by an unprecedented brutalization of warfare. Participation in the \"repellant task\" of becoming psychologically involved in the killings was a rite of initiation of sorts and showed just how \"internalized\" the Nazi beliefs were for members of the SS. It was also part of the rhetoric of legitimation that gave meaning to their acts of extermination and habituated the SS to an ideology of genocide.\n\nSpecial SS death squads known as \"Einsatzgruppen\" were used for large-scale extermination and genocide of Jews, gypsies, Asians, and communists. On 17 June 1941, Heydrich briefed the leaders of the \"Einsatzgruppen\" and their subordinate units on the general policy of killing Jews in the Soviet lands. SD member Walter Blume later testified that Heydrich called Eastern Jews the \"reservoir of intellectuals for Bolshevism,\" and said that the \"state leadership held the view that [they] must be destroyed.\" \n\nThe SS \"Einsatzgruppen\" were supplemented by the specially created Order Police (drawn from Germany and/or the local populations) who were indoctrinated by the SS to also take part in mass killings. One Order Police participant named Kurt Möbius testified during a postwar trial, that he believed the SS propaganda about the Jews being \"criminals and sub-humans\" who had caused \"Germany's decline after the First World War.\" He went on to state that evading \"the order to participate in the extermination of the Jews\" never entered his mind. One SS officer, Karl Kretschmer, \"saw himself as a representative of a cultured people fighting a primitive, barbaric enemy,\" and wrote to his family of the need to desensitize himself from the mass killings. Burleigh and Wippermann write: \"Members of the SS administered, tortured, and murdered people with a cold, steely precision, and without moral scruples.\"\n\nThe SS and its accompanying principles represented the realization of Nazi ideology and played a crucial role in the extermination of European Jews that followed the Nazis' rise to power. As historian Gerald Reitlinger states, while the idealism and machinery of the SS as a state within a state will all be forgotten, their acts of \"...racial transplantations, the concentration camps, the interrogation cells of the Gestapo, the medical experiments of the living, the mass reprisals, the manhunts for slave labor and the racial exterminations will be remembered forever.\" \n\nHistorian Hans Buchheim argues there was no coercion to murder Jews and others, and all who committed such actions did so out of free will. He wrote that chances to avoid executing criminal orders \"were both more numerous and more real than those concerned are generally prepared to admit\". Buchheim commented that until the middle of 1942, the SS had been a strictly volunteer organization, and that anyone who joined the SS after the Nazis had taken over the German government either knew or came to know that he was joining an organization that would be involved in atrocities of one sort or another. There is no known record of an SS officer refusing to commit an atrocity; they willingly did so, and then cherished the awards they received for doing it.\n\nInitially the victims were killed with gas vans or firing squad by SS \"Einsatzgruppen\" units, but these methods proved impracticable for an operation of the scale carried out by the Nazi state. In August 1941, SS leader Himmler attended the shooting of 100 Jews at Minsk. Nauseated and shaken by the experience, he was concerned about the impact such actions would have on the mental health of his SS men. He decided that alternate methods of killing should be found. On his orders, by spring 1942 the camp at Auschwitz had been greatly expanded, including the addition of gas chambers, where victims were killed using the pesticide Zyklon B. Industrialized killing at the SS operated extermination camps made these Nazi-conceived institutions into places where the productive output was corpses. By the end of the war, at least eleven million people, including 5.5 to 6 million Jews and between 200,000 and 1,500,000 Romani people had been killed by the Nazi state with assistance by collaborationist governments and recruits from occupied countries. Historian Enzo Traverso asserts that massacring millions of people was part of the Nazi ideology comprising \"total war,\" which constituted their attempt at conquest for both \"racial\" and colonial purposes. Acting on Hitler's orders, Himmler was a main architect of the Holocaust and the SS was the main branch of the Nazi Party that implemented it.\n\nOn 23 May 1945, Himmler, who had been responsible for so much of the SS doctrine and that of the Nazi state, committed suicide after he was captured by the Allies. Other senior members of the SS fled. Chief of the Reich Main Security Office, SS-\"Obergruppenführer\" Ernst Kaltenbrunner, who was the ranking member of the SS upon Himmler's suicide, was captured in the Bavarian Alps and tried at the Nuremberg Tribunal along with other leading Nazis like Hermann Göring, Joachim von Ribbentrop, Alfred Rosenberg, Hans Frank, among others. Kaltenbrunner was convicted of crimes against humanity and executed on 16 October 1946.\n\nOther SS intellectuals and physicians were also brought to trial and convicted, including the SS \"Ahnenerbe\" doctors who killed the enfeebled and/or disabled persons deemed \"unworthy to live\" or who performed medical experiments on concentration camp prisoners. During questioning after the war, many of the SS doctors from the concentration camps avowed that the allegiance they had sworn to Hitler superseded any of the rituals performed at medical school to say nothing of the Hippocratic Oath they had otherwise ignored. SS members absolved themselves through the pseudo-scientific justification that they were merely acting as instruments (men of action) on behalf of the German people in pursuit of \"racial hygiene.\" Similar strategies of negation and dismissal of responsibility were displayed by SS men during their post-war trials, either by way of legitimizing their actions as a result of unconditional obedience to their superiors (intimating responsibility onto them) or through the use of innocuous sounding bureaucratic language.\n\nGiven the impact that the Nazi ideology had on the European continent in causing a catastrophic war and unparalleled crimes, the Allied powers determined Germany shall be demilitarized and the country divided into four occupation zones. They also began the process of denazification (\"Entnazifizierung\"). This was essentially an effort to \"purge\" the German people of the Nazi ideology that had pushed them to war and resulted in the Holocaust. Astonishingly, many members of the SS, including some from the upper echelons, faced little more than a stint in a POW camp, a short denazification hearing and were treated with \"remarkable leniency\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40041147", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40041147", "title": "Janet Broughton", "text": "Janet Broughton\n\nJanet Broughton is Professor of Philosophy and Vice Provost for the Faculty at the University of California, Berkeley. Her academic research focuses on early modern philosophy, in particular that of David Hume and René Descartes.\n\nBroughton attended Mount Holyoke College for a year, but interrupted her formal education to join the VISTA program, where she worked on community programs for preschoolers and teenagers in Houston's Third Ward. Following that she worked as a programmer and announcer for a classical music show on WRVR (now WLTW) in New York City. She returned to school and earned her B.A. in philosophy at the University of California, Davis. Broughton earned her Ph.D. in philosophy at Princeton University with a dissertation on Descartes’ theory of causation.\n\nBroughton’s first academic position in philosophy was at Harvard University. She moved to the University of California, Berkeley in 1979 and served as departmental chair for 5 years. In 2006, she was appointed Dean of the Arts and Humanities division of Berkeley’s College of Letters and Science in 2006. In 2010 she was appointed Vice Provost for the Faculty.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28238505", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28238505", "title": "Johann Anton Leisewitz", "text": "Johann Anton Leisewitz\n\nJohann Anton Leisewitz (born 9 May 1752 in Hanover, died 10 September 1806 in Braunschweig) was a German lawyer and dramatic poet, and a central figure of the Sturm und Drang era. He is best known for his play \"Julius of Tarent\" (1776), that inspired Friedrich Schiller and is considered the forerunner of Schiller's quintessential Sturm und Drang work \"The Robbers\" (1781).\n\nHe went to Göttingen in 1770, and became a member of the circle of poets called Der Hainbund, which included Stolberg and Voss, and contributed two poems to the \"Göttinger Musenalmanach\" for 1775, both essentially dramatic and democratic in tone. In 1775, at Brunswick, and later at Berlin and Weimar, he met and soon counted among his friends Eschenburg, Moses Mendelssohn, Lessing, Nicolai, Herder, and Goethe. His single complete play, \"Julius of Tarent\" (1776), was written in Lessing's style and with much of the latter's dramatic technique. The play was a favorite of Friedrich Schiller, and was frequently acted in Germany. It also inspired Friedrich Maximilian Klinger, who was employed as playwright by Leisewitz' father-in-law Abel Seyler.\n\nHe married \"Sophie\" Marie Katharina Seyler (1762–1833) in Hamburg in 1781. She was the daughter of famed Swiss-born theatre director Abel Seyler and stepdaughter of actress Friederike Sophie Seyler, and grew up with her uncle J.G.R. Andreae in Hanover. Her brother was banker Ludwig Erdwin Seyler, who became by marriage a member of the Berenberg-Gossler banking dynasty. Leisewitz was a distant relative of his wife on the Andreae side, and had been a frequent visitor in the Andreae home, with its large library, in his youth. He would later refer to J.G.R. Andreae as his uncle. His diaries and his letters to his wife have been published. The letters sent between Johann Anton Leisewitz and Sophie Seyler have been described as some of the most beautiful love letters of the late 18th century.\n"}
{"id": "54457001", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54457001", "title": "Johannes van Heeck", "text": "Johannes van Heeck\n\nJohannes van Heeck, (Deventer 2 February 1579 - presumably Sant'Angelo Romano c.1620), (also known as Johann Heck, Joannes Eck, Johannes Heckius, Johannes Eckius and Giovanni Ecchio) was a Dutch physician, naturalist, alchemist and astrologer. Together with Prince Federico Cesi, Anastasio de Filiis and Francesco Stelluti, he was one of the four founding members of the Accademia dei Lincei, the first learned society dedicated to understanding of the natural world through scientific enquiry.\n\nJohannes van Heeck was one of five children in a family of wealthy merchants. His father was Willem, son of Willem van Heeck, and his mother was Lutgardt, daughter of Gerrit. Between 1587 and 1591 his father, a Catholic, was one of Deventer's political leaders, elected senator and consul in 1589. For this reason, when Protestant forces under Maurice of Nassau took the city in 1591, Willem van Heeck was fined 150 guilders for being a leader of the Catholic party and a collaborator of the hated Phillip II of Spain.\n\nJohannes received a humanist education, studying Latin, Greek, theology, astronomy and astrology, and making an exact observation of the comet that appeared in 1591, which he described in one of his later treatises as a bad omen for a life full of bitterness and pain. Under Calvinist rule, the position of his family became more precarious in Deventer and eventually his parents decided to send him to Italy to continue his education.\n\nVan Heeck traveled to Milan, Parma, Ferrara, Venice, Bologna and Rome. He stayed for a while in Spoleto as a guest of Count Gelosi, with whom he maintained a connection throughout his life, and on whose estate was the villa known as the \"museum deauratum\" where many of his manuscripts were composed. Here he wrote works of a moral literary character, such as his 1596 \"Epigrammata\", as well as medical, magical and astrological topics. Among these was his \"Liber de Regimine Sanitatis Eorum Qui Studio Litterarum Incumbunt\" in which, inspired by De Vita Libri Tres ('The Threefold Life') of Marsilio Ficino, he examined the hygiene, diet and amorous habits of the literati. The second part of the work dealt with Ficino's ideas on magic. He discussed the influence of images on the spirit, and the occult virtues of certain plants, approaching his enquiry from the medical point of view rather than from that of the magician. He concluded the treatise with a list of secrets for healing common illnesses by using certain plants, and with a collection of \"magic\" recipes. \n\nFollowing \"De Regimine\" there are four undated manuscripts dealing with plants and medicine:\n\n\nIn these he described the characteristics of various fruits, herbs and vegetables, their regions of origin, the time of their flowering, ways of preparing them and their specific medicinal use. He wrote on the basis of first-hand observation, supported by ancient sources, notably Dioscorides. \n\nWith financial backing from a supportive bishop, he then studied medicine at the University of Perugia, obtaining his doctor's degree in 1601. During this period, his writing focused on logic, theology and metaphysics. Among the more significant of his works while he studied at university were: \n\n\nHe practised as a doctor first in Maenza and then in Scandriglia in the province of Rieti, part of the domain of Duke Giovanni Antonio Orsini. In the course of his medical work, van Heeck became involved in a strange dispute. He treated his patients, who were mostly poor, with great zeal, using simple herbal medicines. For this reason he came into conflict with the apothecary of Scandriglia, one Casolini Ranieri, who made his living selling medicines with exotic names, more magical than scientific. Ranieri conceived a firm hatred of the foreign doctor, whose work threatened to ruin his lucrative business. One night Ranieri positioned himself on the route where van Heeck habitually passed and attacked him while he was alone. Van Heeck fell from his horse but fended off his attacker with a sword. Still bleeding from his injuries, he was brought before the magistrate. Despite his plea of self-defense, he was imprisoned. The apothecary later died of his wounds, and van Heeck would have been left to rot in prison if he had not been released through the intervention of Prince Federico Cesi, who sent Francesco Stelluti to get him out of prison and then invited him to his house in Rome. The period when Cesi, van Heeck and Stelluti lived together after van Heeck's release from prison was one of an intense exchange of ideas and the shaping of plans, which led to the idea of forming a mutual-instruction society.\n\nThis close partnership between Cesi, van Heeck and Stelluti soon led to their founding the Accademia dei Lincei, together with Anastasio de Filiis, on 17 August 1603. There is no doubt that van Heeck played a key role in the conception and organization of the Academy. He was the most experienced, educated and famous member of the group, and he clearly took the lead in many of its ventures, though he was the second youngest among them. Like all its members, he adopted a pseudonym (\"Illuminato\"), an emblem (a quarter-moon illuminated by a triangle from the sun) and the motto \"A Patre luminum\" ('from the father of lights'). It was van Heeck who chose as the Academy's patron saint John the Baptist, the apostle of arcane visions. He also drafted its articles of association and devised its ceremonial.\n\nVan Heeck referred to the Accademia as 'the most sagacious investigators of the secrets of nature, and dedicated to the Paracelsan disciplines' - indicating thereby that like the Swiss physician, they believed that empirical observation was essential for developing an understanding of the world, rather than reliance on established scholarly authorities.\n\nThere has been speculation that the connections between the Accademia's members were not confined to the intellectual sphere, and, specifically in the case of the relationship between Federico Cesi and Johannes van Heeck, that they were probably sexual in nature.\n\nIn the spring of 1604, Prince Cesi's father the Duke of Acquasparta was so concerned about the activities of the Accademia dei Lincei and what he considered the nefarious influence of van Heeck over his son that he denounced him to the Roman Inquisition. This effectively broke the four friends up, and van Heeck was obliged to leave Rome, embarking on a tour of numerous European countries. He went first to Siena, Pisa and Florence, then to Milan and Turin, where he met Giovanni Botero at the Court of Charles Emmanuel I, Duke of Savoy. Later he crossed the Alps and went to England, Norway, France, Poland, Germany and Bohemia.\n\nWhile van Heeck was travelling, Federico Cesi sent him money regularly, to buy rare books on alchemy and the natural sciences, which were then added to his collection the Accademia dei Lincei. As well as collecting books, objects and rare plants for the Accademia's collections, van Heeck was also a kind of roving ambassador, telling educated men in each city about the group's work and publicising its activities to win the sympathy of the powerful and the learned. During his travels, he was attacked by robbers and forced to swallow his membership ring of the Accademia in order to prevent it from falling into the hands of his attackers.\n\nAfter several months on the road he eventually found a place in Prague at the court of Emperor Rudolf II, an enlightened and generous man who was interested in the research of the Accademia dei Lincei. Rudolf's court was a major international centre for scholars and researchers on many fields, and he owned one of the largest cabinets of curiosities ever assembled. He had been patron to Tycho Brahe until the latter's death in 1601, and at the time of van Heeck's arrival, was still patron to Johan Kepler.\n\nIn October 1604, a new star was seen. By night, it was the brightest star in the sky, and it was visible during the day as well for more than three weeks, before eventually dimming. Both Lodovico delle Colombe and Kepler published their accounts of the new star in 1606. Van Heeck was ready to publish before them, sending his manuscript of \"De Nova Stella Disputatio\" ('Discussion of the New Star') to Federico Cesi in Rome in January 1605.\n\nThe critical question for all three writers was whether the new phenomenon could be explained within the generally-accepted model of the universe, known as the Aristotelian model or the Ptolmaic system. This held that the stars were remote, fixed in their positions and unchanging, while movement and variance were associated with the planets, closer to the earth. An unusual event in the sky might take place close to the earth, and could therefore be explained within the standard cosmological model. However if it took place beyond the planets, this indicated that the stars, contrary to what was commonly believed, could not be fixed in a 'firmament'. Astronomers (still working with the unaided naked eye at this time) took measurements of parallax to determine whether an object was near the earth or far away from it.\n\nCesi believed that the Accademia needed to publish something of scientific significance in order to establish its scholarly credibility, and that a book from van Heeck which reaffirmed orthodox Catholic positions would both remove suspicions about the group's activities and pave the way for his return to Rome. Van Heeck's theses however posed a number of problems. He critiqued twelve positions put forward by other astronomers on the origins and location of supernovae. Claiming to use the measurement techniques developed by Tycho Brahe, he concluded that the supernova of 1604 showed no sign of parallax, which meant that the event could not have taken place near the earth, among the planets, but must have been located much further away, among the 'fixed' stars of the firmament or perhaps even further beyond. In this, he agreed with Tycho Brahe and other recent astronomers. However he reconciled this conclusion with the Aristotelian model by arguing that the apparently new star was not new at all; while permanent, like other stars, it was only occasionally visible for special reasons. He went further, accusing those who argued for a fluid heaven of writing contrary to Holy Writ, and attacking Tycho Brahe for his religious beliefs as well as for his purported scientific errors. Broadening his polemic against all erroneous ideas, he attacked Ptotestantism, thereby drawing Kepler into his argument. The language and tone of van Heeck's text was most intemperate. He berated the 'babbling new Philosophers' for their 'profane ignorance' and 'stupid ostentation' in departing from Aristotle.\n\nCesi greatly esteemed Kepler, and therefore edited van Heeck's text, removing anything hostile to him or to other astronomers. He also removed much of the defence of the Aristotelian cosmology, as it was important for the Accademia to align itself to new astronomical discoveries and not become entrenched in defending Aristotle. He then had the pamphlet published without the lynx emblem of the Accademia on its frontespiece. Van Heeck was furious at these editorial changes, which had been undertaken without his knowledge or permission.\n\nVan Heeck's correspondence with Cesi in 1604 and 1605 suggest that he was experiencing some kind of crisis of confidence about his relationship with the other Lincei. He wrote at one point of marrying and not returning to Rome, but Cesi prevailed on him to come back. In April 1605 they asked him to prepare a new book attacking heresy, which was perhaps more suited to his interests at the time. In October 1605 he returned to Italy, but went to Rome only briefly in 1606 before leaving Italy again.\n\nIn 1608 he was in Madrid, where he had apparently gone to see the famous Mexican herbarium in the Escorial. He probably practiced medicine there, and wrote a treatise entitled \"Politeia Catholica de Bono et Malo cum Civil Antidote\", now lost. In 1610, Federico Cesi's father died and this meant that the members of the Accademia could associate more freely. It is perhaps significant that despite this, van Heeck still did not return to his friends in Rome. Although he continued to contribute to the work of the Accademia, this was on a more sporadic basis and the apparent crisis in his nerves diminished his involvement. \n\nOne of the Accademia's original founders, Anastasio de Filiis, had died in 1608 and Cesi invited the elderly and highly esteemed Giambattista della Porta to join in his place. This helped the Accademia to re-establish itself and gave it greatly enhanced respectability after the mistrust it had experienced in its earlier years. The next person to join after Della Porta was Galileo Galilei.\n\nNothing more is known about him until 26 July 1614, when he made a fleeting appearance in Rome, accompanied by Stelluti, for an academic conference on the Greek and Latin languages. A note, probably from 1615, by the Linceian Theophilus Müller at the end of his book 'De Animalibus' indicates that he visited van Heeck in the abbey of Sant'Angelo in Capoccia. Van Heeck appeared to be in the grip of a persecution mania, and told him that the king of Spain was persecuting him and insisting that he marry his daughter. The very last known reference to him is in a minute from the 24 March 1616 meeting of the Accademia dei Lincei, which records that he was temporarily excluded from meetings until he was once again of sound mind. Nothing further is known about him.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4983370", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4983370", "title": "John M. MacEachran", "text": "John M. MacEachran\n\nJohn Malcolm MacEachran (January 16, 1877 – 1971) was a Canadian philosopher and psychologist, whose most notable credentials involved the development of the Psychology and Philosophy Department at the University of Alberta. He was a co-founder of the Canadian Psychological Association and the appointed Chairman of the Alberta Eugenics Board which was responsible for approving sterilization of thousands of Albertans.\n\nJohn Malcolm MacEachran was born in Glencoe, Ontario in Canada to David and Christina MacEachran. After finishing his primary education in the public school system of Glencoe, he was admitted to Queen's University in Ontario. There, MacEachran obtained an MA in Mental and Moral Philosophy (1902), became the appointed assistant to Professor John Watson, and obtained his first PhD in 1906. Following his apprenticeship, MacEachran traveled to Berlin, Germany, where he worked with the well-known scholars Friedrich Paulsen and Carl Stumpf, further increasing his knowledge of modern psychology, ethics, and the philosophy of education. MacEachran then officially commenced schooling in Germany where he became a student of the psychologist/philosopher Wilhelm Wundt at the Leipzig University (1907). Here he wrote his doctoral thesis \"Der Pragmatismus\" (1909) earning him his second PhD. MacEachran then traveled to Paris where he studied sociology under Émile Durkheim and took a class under Alfred Binet, who had recently developed the IQ test (1908). MacEachran's academic relationship with Henri Bergson spurred his interest in combining the disciplines of philosophy and biological science. Dr. MacEachran accepted an offer from the then newly founded University of Alberta to head its Department of Philosophy and Psychology in 1909.\n\nIn 1909, J.M. MacEachran was appointed head of the Department of Psychology and Philosophy at the University of Alberta. As the head of a new department, MacEachran fabricated the curriculum from scratch and in his first year at the U of A, MacEachran offered introductory courses in experimental and modern psychology. As the program developed, MacEachran made junior and senior level courses available and in 1911, he made it possible to graduate with a M.A and B.A in the field of psychology. Other classes that were added to the curriculum included: psychology and logic, comparative psychology (animal evolution, child psychology and racial psychology), physiological psychology, abnormal psychology and psychology of religion. At this point, MacEachran had developed and supported the whole of the undergraduate philosophy and psychology programs and supervised at least one Masters level student. He MacEachran also began administrative duties for the university in 1911, and officially accepted the position as the University of Alberta's first Provost in 1912. All of these responsibilities earned him a salary of $4,900.\n\nDuring the First World War (1916-1918), J.M. MacEachran enlisted as captain in the 196th Western Universities Battalion on March 15, 1916. He also served with the 19th Reserve Battalion, the C.E.F. Young Soldiers' Battalion, and the 13th Brigade C.F. in France.\n\nAfter MacEachran's return to the University of Alberta after World War I (1918), a central focus was developing applied psychology. Courses such as applied psychology, educational psychology, industrial psychology, legal psychology and psychology and economic problems were introduced into the curriculum. While studying at Leipzig University, Wilhelm Wundt lectured to MacEachran that experimental psychology would have to be meticulously studied for two or three centuries before it was to be applied – MacEachran installed applied psychology at the University of Alberta only one decade later.\n\nIn 1938 MacEachran co-founded the Canadian Psychological Association and became the first honorary President in 1939.\n\nWith the additional faculty, the number and range of classes broadened. In the late 1930s and early 1940s, laboratory psychology was crafted. In August 1945, after shaping the Department of Philosophy and Psychology, and much of the Universities' administrative routine, MacEachran retired as Emeritus Professor of Philosophy. His successor was John MacDonald. In 1960 the Department of Philosophy and Psychology split into independent departments, the University of Alberta was the last western university to complete the transitions.\n\nJ.M. MacEachran was appointed Head of Alberta Eugenics Board in 1928, immediately after the Alberta government enacted the Sexual Sterilization Act of Alberta. MacEachran was appointed Chairman for the purpose of developing a philosophical justification for the eugenics movement. He was an ideal candidate for the position because of his extensive background in philosophy and psychology. The purpose of the Alberta Eugenics board is outlined in section 4(1) of the Sexual Sterilization Act:\n\nSection 4(1) of the Sexual Sterilization Act empowered the medical superintendent of a mental hospital to cause a patient of the mental hospital whom it proposed to discharge to be examined by or in the presence of the eugenics board, with a view to sterilization. Section 5 of the Act established two grounds for sterilization: that procreation by the person under consideration would result in the transmission of any mental disability or deficiency to his or her progeny or involved the risk of mental injury either to such a person or his or her progeny.\n\nJ.M MacEachran of Edmonton (U of A, Chairman), E.L. Pope of Edmonton (U of A, Professor of Medicine), E.G. Mason of Calgary, and Mrs J.H Field of Spurfield (Secretary) were the original four members of the board whose job was to approve or reject patients for sterilization with respect to the guidelines of the Sexual Sterilization Act.\n\nFive years after the first meeting of the Alberta Eugenics Board in 1929, at the annual meeting of the Canadian Medical Association (CMA) in 1934, it was noted that 288 cases had been approved by the Eugenics Board for sterilization, and that 60% of these cases involved serious mental or nervous disease in the patients family record. Two classes of individuals were sterilized - those with low mental IQ's and those who had suffered serious mental breakdowns, and therefore could not be recommended for parenthood by any physician. It was also noted that any operations to be completed on the patients first required personal consent, or consent from family. If no one was eligible to provide consent and the patient was not capable of signing personal consent due to physical or mental barriers, the Minister of Health could do so. In 1933, the Eugenics Board consented that the Chairman, Dr. MacEachran, would have the authority to dictate when an operation for sterilization would take place. Members of the CMA, agreed:\n\nEvidence [had] shown overwhelmingly that sterilization [was] a sound, humane and effective procedure, and [was] one of the chief means of coping with the grave problem of the increasingly large number of mentally sick and mentally deficient persons that each province [was] being called upon to care for.\n\nIn 1937, the Social Credit government passed an amendment that strongly restricted the need for the Eugenics Board to obtain consent of the patients to be sterilized. This increased the efficiency of the sterilization process, as more patients could be approved for sterilization by the Eugenics board. In the 44 years that the board was empowered by the government of Alberta, 2822 sterilizations were processed. MacEachran resigned from Chairman of the Alberta Eugenics Board on June 30, 1965, serving for 38 consecutive years. During his term as Chairman, MacEachran signed over 3200 applications approving for sterilization of adults and children (~60% of approvals resulted in sterilizations). His successor was R.K. Thomson who was chairman until 1972 when the Sexual Sterilization Act was repealed.\n\nIn 1975, the University of Alberta's Department of Psychology inaugurated an annual lecture series honoring MacEachran. Every year a distinguished scholar of psychology would be invited to give a lecture to students and faculty in MacEachran's honor. Awards and scholarships were also distributed in MacEachran's honor, first in 1958 and then 1972 with endowments from his estate. After 1972, the Faculty of Education and the Departments of Philosophy and Psychology awarded annual scholarships to students honoring MacEachran's accomplishments.\n\nOn September 3, 1997, a committee at the University of Alberta voted to rename the lecture series due to MacEachran's involvement in the unlawful sterilization of many Albertans. In 1998, a University of Alberta panel submitted a request to halt the distribution of awards in J.M. MacEachran's name. This request was based on data obtained from the Leilani Muir versus the Province of Alberta trial, which showed that many of the sterilizations were unlawfully approved by the Alberta Eugenics Board. The board, headed by J.M. MacEachran, approved sterilizations without clear evidence that the patients deficiencies would be transmitted to their progeny. The board approved sterilizations of patients who did not fall into the category of \"mental defective\". A section of the Sterilization Act stated that upon sterilization, the patient would be discharged from the holding facility and in many instances, patients were sterilized even though discharge was not imminent.\n\nThe board also approved the sterilization of patients already known to be infertile (patients with Down Syndrome). Furthermore, castrations were approved in order to obtain testicular tissue for research purposes. The board approved sterilizations with the understanding that patient's sexual behavior would be altered, therefore eliminating sexual deviancy, and also with the goal of stopping menstruation in women. MacEachran had also signed application forms, approving sterilization before the patients had been interviewed by the board. With regards to the Leilani Muir vs. Alberta trial, Madame Justice Joanne B. Veit noted:\n\nDr. Thompson's [a former chair holder of the Alberta Eugenics Board] evidence demonstrates that the operations of the Board initiated on a purported scientific rationale, degenerated into unscientific practices. The decisions of the Board were not made according to the standards imposed on them by the legislation, but because the members of the Board... thought that it was socially appropriate to control reproduction of \"these people\".\n\nBecause of the previously stated reasons, in 1998, the Department of Philosophy at the University of Alberta stopped giving out rewards honoring MacEachran's name. A single MacEachran award was given out in 2003 from the Department of Philosophy, and then no more thereafter. The University of Alberta's Department of Psychology has continued to distribute awards in MacEachran's honor.\n\n"}
{"id": "9446340", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9446340", "title": "John Passmore", "text": "John Passmore\n\nJohn Passmore AC (9 September 1914 – 25 July 2004) was an Australian philosopher.\n\nPassmore was born in Manly, Sydney, where he grew up. He was educated at Sydney Boys High School and subsequently graduated from the University of Sydney with first-class honours in English literature and philosophy, and continued his studies to become a secondary-school teacher. In 1934 he accepted the position of assistant lecturer in philosophy at the University of Sydney, continuing teaching there until 1949. In 1948 he went to study at the University of London.\n\nFrom 1950 to 1955 he was professor of philosophy at the University of Otago in New Zealand. In 1955 he spent a year at the University of Oxford on a Carnegie grant. Upon his return to Australia he took up a post at the Institute of Advanced Studies at the Australian National University, where he was professor of Philosophy in the Research School of Social Sciences from 1958 to 1979. \n\nIn 1960 he was Ziskind visiting professor at Brandeis University in the United States. He subsequently lectured in England, the United States, Mexico, Japan, and in various European countries.\n\nIn 1994 he was appointed a Companion of the Order of Australia (AC), Australia's highest civilian honour.\n\nHe died in 2004 and was survived by his wife Doris and two daughters.\n\nPassmore was as much an historian of ideas as a philosopher, and his scholarship always paid careful attention to the complex historical context of philosophical problems. He published about twenty books, many of which have been translated. Passmore will be remembered as a thinker who helped to shape public debate and to open up domains of applied philosophy and the history of ideas to the wider world.\n\nIn his book \"Man's Responsibility for Nature\" (1974) Passmore argued that there is urgent need to change our attitude to the environment, and that humans cannot continue unconstrained exploitation of the biosphere. However, he rejected the view that we need to abandon the Western tradition of scientific rationalism, and was unsympathetic towards attempts to articulate environmental concern through radical revisions of our ethical framework, as advocated by deep ecologists, which he conceived as misguided mysticism or irrationalism. Passmore's unequivocal anthropocentrism made him a reference point in the discourse of environmental ethics and many treatises in the field begin with (or include) a criticism of his views. Passmore's skepticism about attempts to attribute intrinsic value to nature, and his preferred position of valuing nature in terms of what it contributes to the flourishing of sentient creatures (including humans), is perhaps not as unfashionable now as it was in the years following the publication of \"Man's Responsibility for Nature\". Passmore described himself as a \"pessimistic humanist\" who regarded neither human beings nor human societies as perfectible.\n\nPassmore took a keen interest in film and in performing arts and was a director of the Australian Elizabethan Theatre Trust.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15182258", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15182258", "title": "Joseph Widmer", "text": "Joseph Widmer\n\nJoseph Widmer (15 August 1779 – 10 December 1844) was a Swiss Catholic theologian. A native of Hohenrain, he died in Beromünster.\n\nHe studied philosophy at Lucerne, and theology at Landshut (1802-4) under Sailer and Zimmer, the former exercising a great and abiding influence over him. After ordination Widmer was appointed professor of philosophy in 1804, and of moral and pastoral theology in 1819 at the lyceum of Lucerne. In 1833 he was removed from his position by the Government and received a canonry in the collegiate chapter at Beromunster; in 1841 he became the provost of this chapter. In connection with Joseph Heinrich Aloysius Gügler Widmer did good service in opposing the teachings of Ignaz Heinrich von Wessenberg, and in reviving ecclesiastic life in Switzerland. Among his writings are: \"Der katholische Seelsorger\" (Munich, 1819–23); \"Systematische Uebersicht der in Sailer's Handbuch der christlichen Moral ausführlich entwickelten and dargestellten Grundsätze\" (Sarmenstorf, 1839); \"Vortrage uber Pastoraltheologie\" (Sarmenstorf, 1840). He edited the works of Sailer (Sulzbach, 1830–46), of Franz Geiger (Fluelen, 1823–39), and Gügler (Lucerne, 1828–40).\n"}
{"id": "55538531", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55538531", "title": "José Manuel Briceño Guerrero", "text": "José Manuel Briceño Guerrero\n\nJosé Manuel Briceño Guerrero (Palmarito, Apure, Venezuela, 6 March 1929 - Mérida, 31 October 2014) was a Venezuelan writer and philosopher. A large part of his work was published under the pen-name Jonuel Brigue.\n\nAfter doctoring in Vienna in 1961 with a thesis entitled “The Socio-Psychological Foundations of Latin American Spanish,” Briceño Guerrero worked for decades as Professor of Philosophy and Classical languages at the Universidad de Los Andes, Mérida. In 1981 he was awarded the Venezuelan Premio Nacional de Ensayo, and in 1996 the Premio Nacional de Cultura (Literatura). He is considered one of the most influential and original Latin-American thinkers, and some of his works have been translated into French and German, some as part of the UNESCO Collection of Representative Works.\n\n\nOther articles and minor works are referenced in the .\n\n"}
{"id": "17405", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17405", "title": "Kowtow", "text": "Kowtow\n\nKowtow, which is borrowed from \"kau tau\" in Cantonese (\"koutou\" in Mandarin Chinese), is the act of deep respect shown by prostration, that is, kneeling and bowing so low as to have one's head touching the ground. An alternative Chinese term is \"ketou\"; however, the meaning is somewhat altered: \"kou\" (叩) has the general meaning of \"knock\", whereas \"ke\" (磕) has the general meaning of \"touch upon (a surface)\", \"tou\" (頭) meaning head. The date of this custom's origin is probably sometime between the Spring and Autumn Period, or the Warring States Period of China's history because it is already known to have been a custom by the time of the Qin Dynasty (221 BC – 206 BC).\n\nIn East Asian culture, the kowtow is the highest sign of reverence. It was widely used to show reverence for one's elders, superiors, and especially the Emperor, as well as for religious and cultural objects of worship. In modern times, usage of the kowtow has become reduced.\n\nIn Imperial Chinese protocol, the kowtow was performed before the Emperor of China. Depending on the solemnity of the situation different grades of kowtow would be used. In the most solemn of ceremonies, for example at the coronation of a new Emperor, the Emperor's subjects would undertake the ceremony of the \"three kneelings and nine kowtows\", the so-called grand kowtow, which involves kneeling from a standing position three times, and each time, performing the kowtow three times while kneeling. Immanuel Hsu describes the \"full kowtow\" as \"three kneelings and nine knockings of the head on the ground\".\nAs government officials represented the majesty of the Emperor while carrying out their duties, commoners were also required to kowtow to them in formal situations. For example, a commoner brought before a local magistrate would be required to kneel and kowtow. A commoner is then required to remain kneeling, whereas a person who has earned a degree in the Imperial examinations is permitted a seat.\n\nSince one is required by Confucian philosophy to show great reverence to one's parents and grandparents, children may also be required to kowtow to their elderly ancestors, particularly on special occasions. For example, at a wedding, the marrying couple was traditionally required to kowtow to both sets of parents, as acknowledgement of the debt owed for their nurturing.\n\nConfucius believed there was a natural harmony between the body and mind and therefore, whatever actions were expressed through the body would be transferred over to the mind. Because the body is placed in a low position in the kowtow, the idea is that one will naturally convert to his or her mind a feeling of respect. What one does to oneself influences the mind. Confucian philosophy held that respect was important for a society, making bowing an important ritual.\n\nThe kowtow, and other traditional forms of reverence, were much maligned after the May Fourth Movement. Today, only vestiges of the traditional usage of the kowtow remain. In many situations, the standing bow has replaced the kowtow. For example, some, but not all, people would choose to kowtow before the grave of an ancestor, or while making traditional offerings to an ancestor. Direct descendants may also kowtow at the funeral of an ancestor, while others would simply bow. During a wedding, some couples may kowtow to their respective parents, though the standing bow is today more common. In extreme cases, the kowtow can be used to express profound gratitude, apology, or to beg for forgiveness.\n\nThe kowtow remains alive as part of a formal induction ceremony in certain traditional trades that involve apprenticeship or discipleship. For example, Chinese martial arts schools often require a student to kowtow to a master. Likewise, traditional performing arts often also require the kowtow.\n\nProstration is a general practice in Buddhism, and not restricted to China. The kowtow is often performed in groups of three before Buddhist statues and images or tombs of the dead. In Buddhism it is more commonly termed either \"worship with the crown (of the head)\" (頂禮 ding li) or \"casting the five limbs to the earth\" (五體投地 wuti tou di)—referring to the two arms, two legs and forehead. For example, in certain ceremonies, a person would perform a sequence of three sets of three kowtows—stand up and kneel down again between each set—as an extreme gesture of respect; hence the term \"three kneelings and nine head knockings\" (). Also, some Buddhist pilgrims would kowtow once for every three steps made during their long journeys, the number three referring to the Triple Gem of Buddhism, the Buddha, the Dharma, and the Sangha. Prostration is widely practiced in India by Hindus to give utmost respect to their deities in temples and to parents and elders. Nowadays in modern times people show the regards to elders by bowing down and touching their feet.\n\nThe word \"kowtow\" came into English in the early 19th century to describe the bow itself, but its meaning soon shifted to describe any abject submission or groveling. The term is still commonly used in English with this meaning, disconnected from the physical act and the East Asian context.\n\nThe kowtow was a significant issue for diplomats, since it was required to come into the presence of the Emperor of China, but it meant submission before him. The British embassies of George Macartney, 1st Earl Macartney (1793) and William Pitt Amherst, 1st Earl Amherst (1816) were allegedly unsuccessful, partly because kowtowing would mean acknowledging their King as a subject of the Emperor.\n\nDutch ambassador Isaac Titsingh did not refuse to kowtow during the course of his 1794–1795 mission to the imperial court of the Qianlong Emperor. The members of the Titsingh mission, including Andreas Everardus van Braam Houckgeest and Chrétien-Louis-Joseph de Guignes, made every effort to conform with the demands of the complex Imperial court etiquette.\n\nOn two occasions, the kowtow was performed by Chinese envoys to a foreign ruler – specifically the Russian Tsar. T'o-Shih, Qing emissary to Russia whose mission to Moscow took place in 1731, kowtowed before Tsarina Anna, as per instructions by the Yongzheng Emperor, as did Desin, who led another mission the next year to the new Russian capital at St. Petersburg. Hsu notes that Kanghsi Emperor, Yongzheng's predecessor, explicitly ordered that Russia be given a special status in Qing foreign relations by not being included among tributary states, i.e. recognition as an implicit equal of China. \n\nThe kowtow was often performed in intra-Asian diplomatic relations as well. In 1636, after being defeated by the invading Manchus, King Injo of Joseon (Korea) was forced to surrender by kowtowing three times to pledge tributary status to the Qing Emperor Hong Taiji. As was customary of all Asian envoys to Qing China, Joseon envoys kowtowed three times to the Qing emperor during their visits to China, continuing until 1896 when the Korean Empire withdrew its tributary status from Qing as a result of the First Sino-Japanese War.\n\nThe King of the Ryukyu Kingdom also had to kneel three times on the ground and touch his head nine times to the ground (), to show his allegiance to the Chinese emperors.\n\n"}
{"id": "2908604", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2908604", "title": "Lottery of birth", "text": "Lottery of birth\n\nThe lottery of birth is a philosophical argument which states that since no one chooses the circumstances into which they are born, people should not be held responsible for them (being rich, being poor and so on).\n\nThe lottery of birth argument has been used by philosophers such as John Locke, Thomas Hobbes and Jean-Jacques Rousseau, but more modern day uses have been prompted by political theorists such as John Rawls, who explores the subject in depth in his book \"A Theory of Justice\".\n\n"}
{"id": "3920447", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3920447", "title": "Meditation music", "text": "Meditation music\n\nMeditation music is music performed to aid in the practice of meditation. It can have a specific religious content, but also more recently has been associated with modern composers who use meditation techniques in their process of composition, or who compose such music with no particular religious group as a focus. The concept also includes music performed as an act of meditation.\n\nModern meditation music in the 20th century began when composers such as John Cage, Stuart Dempster, Pauline Oliveros, Terry Riley, La Monte Young and Lawrence Ball began to combine meditation techniques and concepts, and music. Specific works include Tony Scott's \"Music for Zen Meditation\" (1964), Karlheinz Stockhausen's \"Inori\" (1974), \"Mantra\" (1970), \"Hymnen\" (1966–67), \"Stimmung\" (1968), and \"Aus den sieben Tagen\" (1968), Olivier Messiaen's \"Quartet for the End of Time\" (1941), and Ben Johnston, whose \"Visions and Spells\" (a realization of \"Vigil\" (1976)), requires a meditation period prior to performance. R. Murray Schafer's concepts of clairaudience (clean hearing) as well as the ones found in his \"The Tuning of the World\" (1977) are meditative .\n\nStockhausen describes \"Aus den sieben Tagen\" as \"intuitive music\" and in the piece \"Es\" from this cycle the performers are instructed to play only when not thinking or in a state of nonthinking (Von Gunden asserts that this is contradictory and should be \"think about your playing\"). John Cage was influenced by Zen and pieces such as \"Imaginary Landscape No. 4\" for twelve radios are \"meditations that measure the passing of time\" .\n\nSome Christian faiths, particularly the Catholic Church, reject meditation practice from outside their traditions, particularly new-age music (; ; ; ). However, the Olivier Messiaen piece referenced above is explicitly Christian, and Messiaen himself was a practicing Catholic and a church organist.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58074535", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58074535", "title": "Nappalatthanar", "text": "Nappalatthanar\n\nNappalatthanar (Tamil: நப்பாலத்தனார்) was a poet of the Sangam period, to whom a sole verse of the Sangam literature has been attributed, in addition to verse 47 of the Tiruvalluva Maalai.\n\nNappalatthanar has written a sole Sangam verse—verse 240 of the Natrinai—besides verse 47 of the Tiruvalluva Maalai.\n\n"}
{"id": "41825480", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41825480", "title": "Pauli Pylkkö", "text": "Pauli Pylkkö\n\nPauli Pylkkö is a Finnish philosopher. He was a student of Jaakko Hintikka, and later a researcher in both the United States and Finland. Pylkkö has addressed such topics as logic, semiotics, philosophy of language, and cognitive science. Pylkkö has published several works focused specifically on the philosophy of Martin Heidegger, and his works have examined the often problematic relationships between language and subjectivity, nationalism, the limits of scientific rationality, and the semiotic and linguistic mechanics of fascism.\n\n"}
{"id": "84617", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=84617", "title": "Peacekeeping", "text": "Peacekeeping\n\nPeacekeeping refers to activities intended to create conditions that favour lasting peace. Research generally finds that peacekeeping reduces civilian and battlefield deaths and reduces the risk of renewed warfare.\n\nWithin the United Nations (UN) group of nation-state governments and organisations, there is a general understanding that at the international level, peacekeepers monitor and observe peace processes in post-conflict areas, and may assist ex-combatants in implementing peace agreement commitments that they have undertaken. Such assistance may come in many forms, including confidence-building measures, power-sharing arrangements, electoral support, strengthening the rule of law, and economic and social development. Accordingly, the UN peacekeepers (often referred to as Blue Berets or Blue Helmets because of their light blue berets or helmets) can include soldiers, police officers, and civilian personnel.\n\nThe United Nations is not the only organisation to implement peacekeeping missions. Non-UN peacekeeping forces include the NATO mission in Kosovo (with United Nations authorisation) and the Multinational Force and Observers on the Sinai Peninsula or the ones organised by the European Union (like EUFOR RCA, with UN authorisation) and the African Union (like the African Union Mission in Sudan). The Nonviolent Peaceforce is one NGO widely considered to have expertise in general peacemaking by non-governmental volunteers or activists.\n\nThere are a range of various types of operations encompassed in peacekeeping. In Page Fortna's book \"Does Peacekeeping Work?\", for instance, she distinguishes four different types of peacekeeping operations. Importantly, these types of missions and how they are conducted are heavily influenced by the mandate in which they are authorized. Three of Fortna's four types are consent-based missions, i.e. so-called \"Chapter VI\" missions, with the fourth being a \"Chapter VII\" Mission. \nChapter VI missions are consent based, therefore they require the consent of the belligerent factions involved in order to operate. Should they lose that consent, Peacekeepers would be compelled to withdraw. Chapter VII missions, by contrast, do not require consent, though they may have it. If consent is lost at any point, Chapter VII missions would not be required to withdraw.\n\nDuring the Cold War, peacekeeping was primarily interpositional in nature—thus being referred to as traditional peacekeeping. UN Peacekeepers were deployed in the aftermath of interstate conflict in order to serve as a buffer between belligerent factions and ensure compliance with the terms of an established peace agreement. Missions were consent-based, and more often than not observers were unarmed—such was the case with UNTSO in the Middle East and UNCIP in India and Pakistan. Others were armed—such as UNEF-I, established during the Suez Crisis. They were largely successful in this role.\n\nIn the post-Cold War era, the United Nations has taken on a more nuanced, multidimensional approach to Peacekeeping. In 1992, in the aftermath of the Cold War, then Secretary-General Boutros Boutros-Ghali put together a report detailing his ambitious concepts for the United Nations and Peacekeeping at large. The report, titled \"An Agenda for Peace\", described a multi-faceted and interconnected set of measures he hoped would lead to effective use of the UN in its role in post-Cold War international politics. This included the use of preventative diplomacy, peace-enforcement, peace-making, peace-keeping and post-conflict reconstruction.\n\nIn \"The UN Record on Peacekeeping Operations\", Michael Doyle and Nicolas Sambanis summarise Boutros Boutros’ report as preventative diplomacy, confidence-building measures such as fact-finding missions, observer mandates, and the potential deployment of UN mandated forces as a preventative measure in order to diminish the potential for violence or the danger of violence occurring and thus increasing the prospect for lasting peace. Their definitions are as follows:\n\n \nNot all international peacekeeping forces have been directly controlled by the United Nations. In 1981, an agreement between Israel and Egypt formed the Multinational Force and Observers which continues to monitor the Sinai Peninsula.\n\nThe African Union (AU) is working on building an African Peace and Security Architecture that fulfils the mandate to enforce peace and security on the continent. In cases of genocide or other serious human-rights violations, an AU-mission could be launched even against the wishes of the government of the country concerned, as long as it is approved by the AU General Assembly. The establishment of the African Peace and Security Architecture (APSA) which includes the African Standby Force (ASF) is planned earliest for 2015.\n\nUnarmed Civilian Peacekeeping (UCP) are civilian personnel that carry out non-violent, non-interventionist and impartial set of tactics in order to protect civilians in conflict zones from violence in addition to supporting additional efforts to build a lasting peace. While the term UCP is not entirely ubiquitous among non-governmental agencies (NGOs) in the field: many utilize similar techniques and desire shared outcomes for peace; such as accompaniment, presence, rumour control, community security meetings, the securing of safe passage, and monitoring.\n\nUnited Nations Peacekeeping started in 1948 when the United Nations Security Council authorised the deployment of UN unarmed military observers to the Middle East in order to monitor the armistice agreement that was signed between Israel and its Arab neighbours in the wake of the Arab-Israeli War. This operation was called the United Nations Truce Supervision Organization (UNTSO) and is still in operation today. With the passage of resolution 73 (1949) by the Security Council in August 1949, UNTSO was given the task of fulfilling four Armistice Agreements between the state of Israel and the Arab states which had participated in the war. Thus, UNTSO's operations were spread through five states in the region—Israel, Egypt, Jordan, Lebanon and the Syrian Arab Republic.\n\nIn the wake of independence in India and Pakistan in August 1947 and the subsequent bloodshed that followed the Security Council adopted resolution 39 (1948) in January 1948 in order to create the United Nations Commission for India and Pakistan (UNCIP), with the purpose of mediating the dispute between India and Pakistan over Kashmir and the fighting related to it. This operation was non-interventionist in nature and was additionally tasked with supervision of a ceasefire signed by Pakistan and India in the state of Jammu and Kashmir. With the passage of the Karachi agreement in July 1949, UNCIP would supervise a ceasefire line that would be mutually overseen by UN unarmed military observers and local commanders from each side in the dispute. UNCIP's mission in the region continues to this day, now under the operational title of the United Nations Military Observer Group in India and Pakistan (UNMOGIP).\n\nSince then, sixty-nine peacekeeping operations have been authorised and have deployed to various countries all over the world. The great majority of these operations have begun in the post-Cold War world. Between 1988 and 1998 thirty-five UN operations had been established and deployed. This signified a substantial increase when compared with the periods between 1948 and 1978; which saw the creation and deployment of only thirteen UN Peacekeeping operations and zero between 1978 and 1988.\n\nArmed intervention first came in the form of UN involvement in the wake of the Suez Crisis in 1956. United Nations Emergency Force (UNEF-1), which existed from November 1956 to June 1967 was essentially the first ever United Nations peacekeeping force. It was given the mandate of ensuring the cessation of hostilities between Egypt, the United Kingdom, France, and Israel in addition to overseeing the withdrawal of French, Israeli and British troops from Egyptian territory. Upon completion of said withdrawal, UNEF would serve as a buffer force between Egyptian and Israeli forces in order to supervise conditions of the ceasefire and contribute to a lasting peace.\n\nShortly thereafter, the United Nations Operation in the Congo (ONUC), was deployed in 1960. This operation involved upwards of 20,000 military personnel at its peak, and resulted in the death of 250 UN personnel, including then Secretary-General Dag Hammarskjold. ONUC was meant to ensure the withdrawal of Belgian forces in the Congo, who had reinserted themselves after Congolese independence in the wake of a revolt carried out by the Force Publique (FP), in order to protect Belgian citizens and economic interests. ONUC was also tasked with establishing and maintaining law and order (helping to end the FP revolt and ethnic violence) as well as provide technical assistance and training to Congolese security forces. An additional function was added to ONUC's mission, in which the force was tasked with maintaining the territorial integrity and political independence of the Congo—resulting from the secession of the mineral-rich provinces of Katanga and South Kasai. The UN forces there, somewhat controversially, more or less became an arm of the Congolese government at the time and helped to forcefully end the secession of both provinces.\n\nThroughout the 1960s and 1970s the UN created multiple short-term missions all over the world including the Mission of the Representative of the Secretary-General in the Dominican Republic (DOMREP), the UN Security Force in West New Guinea (UNSF), the UN Yemen Observation Mission (UNYOM), in conjunction with more long-term operations such as the UN Peacekeeping Force in Cyprus (UNFICYP), the UN Emergency Force II (UNEF II), the UN Disengagement Observer Force (UNDOF) and the UN Interim Force in Lebanon (UNIFIL).\n\nExperiences of peacekeeping during the Yugoslav Wars, especially failures such as the Srebrenica Massacre, led, in part, to the United Nations Peacebuilding Commission, which works to implement stable peace through some of the same civic functions that peacekeepers also work on, such as elections. The Commission currently works with six countries, all in Africa. In 2013 the U.N. Security Council unanimously passed Resolution 2122, which among other things calls for stronger measures regarding women's participation in conflict and post-conflict processes such as peace talks, gender expertise in peacekeeping missions, improved information about the impact of armed conflict on women, and more direct briefing to the Council on progress in these areas. Also in 2013, the Committee on the Elimination of Discrimination against Women (CEDAW), a UN women's rights committee, said in a general recommendation that states that have ratified the UN Women's Rights Convention are obliged to uphold women's rights before, during, and after conflict when they are directly involved in fighting, and/or are providing peacekeeping troops or donor assistance for conflict prevention, humanitarian aid or post-conflict reconstruction.\nThe Committee also stated that ratifying states should exercise due diligence in ensuring that non-state actors, such as armed groups and private security contractors, be held accountable for crimes against women.\n\nOne of the findings of Page Fortna about where peacekeepers go is that “peacekeeping is a matter of supply and demand” From the supply side, she observes that there is unlikely a Peacekeeping mission in civil wars on countries close to one of the members of the Security Council. From the demand side, there is diverse evidence that peacekeeping missions are deployed in the countries who need it the most, this is where the risk of a recurring war is high.\n\nThe United Nations Charter stipulates that to assist in maintaining peace and security around the world, all member states of the UN should make available to the Security Council necessary armed forces and facilities. Since 1948, about 130 nations have contributed military and civilian police personnel to peace operations. While detailed records of all personnel who have served in peacekeeping missions since 1948 are not available, it is estimated that up to one million soldiers, police officers and civilians have served under the UN flag in the last 56 years. As of March 2008, 113 countries were contributing a total 88,862 military observers, police, and troops.\n\nDespite the large number of contributors, the greatest burden continues to be borne by a core group of developing countries. The ten largest troop (including police and military experts) contributing countries to UN peacekeeping operations as of May, 2017 were Ethiopia (8229), India (7665), Pakistan (7135), Bangladesh (6958), Rwanda (6256), Nepal (5158), Burkina Faso (2969), Senegal (2847), Ghana (2751), Indonesia (2719).\n\nAs of March 2008, in addition to military and police personnel, 5,187 international civilian personnel, 2,031 UN Volunteers, and 12,036 local civilian personnel worked in UN peacekeeping missions.\n\nAs of 30 June 2014, 3,243 people from over 100 countries have been killed while serving on peacekeeping missions. Many of those came from India (157), Nigeria (142), Pakistan (136), Ghana (132), Canada (121), France (110) and the United Kingdom (103). Thirty percent of the fatalities in the first 55 years of UN peacekeeping occurred between 1993 and 1995.\n\nDeveloping nations tend to participate in peacekeeping more than developed countries. This may be due in part because forces from smaller countries avoid evoking thoughts of imperialism. The rate of reimbursement by the UN for troop contributing countries per peacekeeper per month include: $1,028 for pay and allowances; $303 supplementary pay for specialists; $68 for personal clothing, gear and equipment; and $5 for personal weaponry. This can be a significant source of revenue for a developing country. By providing important training and equipment for the soldiers as well as salaries, UN peacekeeping missions allow them to maintain larger armies than they otherwise could. About 4.5% of the troops and civilian police deployed in UN peacekeeping missions come from the European Union and less than one percent from the United States.\n\nSecurity Council Resolution 1325 was the first major step taken by the UN to include women as active and equal actors in “the prevention and resolution of conflicts, peace negotiations, peace-building, peacekeeping, humanitarian response and in post-conflict reconstruction and stresses the importance of their equal participation and full involvement in all efforts for the maintenance and promotion of peace and security”. A critique of this resolution is that UNSCR 1325 proposes the implementing gender mainstreaming, however the progress that has been accomplished in this area has focused on women, rather than on assessing the impacts of planned action on both men and women. In 2010, a comprehensive 10-year impact study was conducted to assess the success of this resolution and found that there was limited success with the implementation, particularly in the increasing women's participation in peace negotiations and peace agreements, and sexual and gender-based violence has continued to be prevalent, despite efforts to reduce it.\n\nIn 2013 the U.N. Security Council unanimously passed Resolution 2122, which among other things calls for stronger measures regarding women's participation in conflict and post-conflict processes such as peace talks, gender expertise in peacekeeping missions, improved information about the impact of armed conflict on women, and more direct briefing to the Council on progress in these areas. Also in 2013, the Committee on the Elimination of Discrimination against Women (CEDAW), a UN women's rights committee, said in a general recommendation that states that have ratified the UN Women's Rights Convention are obliged to uphold women's rights before, during, and after conflict when they are directly involved in fighting, and/or are providing peacekeeping troops or donor assistance for conflict prevention, humanitarian aid or post-conflict reconstruction The Committee also stated that ratifying states should exercise due diligence in ensuring that non-state actors, such as armed groups and private security contractors, be held accountable for crimes against women.\n\nAs of July 2016, women serve in every UN peacekeeping mission either as troops, police, or civilian staff. In 1993, women made up 1% of deployed uniformed personnel. In 2014, out of approximately 125,000 peacekeepers, women constitute 3% of military personnel and 10% of police personnel in UN Peacekeeping missions, as well as 29% of international and 17% of national staff in peacekeeping and special political missions. In 2016, five women were leading peacekeeping missions as Special Representatives of the Secretary-General.\n\nWhile much has been written about Peacekeeping and what Peacekeepers do, very little empirical research has taken place in order to identify the manner in which Peacekeepers can have an impact in a post-conflict environment. Columbia University Professor, Virginia Page Fortna attempts to lay out four causal mechanisms through which peacekeepers have the opportunity to lay the groundwork for a lasting peace. Fortna's four mechanisms are as follows:\nFortna argues that peacekeepers have a positive impact on the peace process, despite often being sent to places where peace is most difficult to achieve. Peacekeeping is often looked at by detractors as ineffective, or unnecessary. Peace prevails when belligerents already have a vested interest in sustaining peace and therefore it could be argued that Peacekeepers play only a minor role in creating a strong foundation for enduring peace. Yet these causal reasons illustrate the important roles that Peacekeepers play in ensuring that peace lasts, especially when contrasted against situations in which belligerents are left to their own devices. These causal reasons thus illustrate the need for Peacekeeping and lay a foundation for the manner in which Peacekeeping operations can have a substantive impact on the post-conflict environment.\n\nIn order to change the incentives for war and make peace more appealing the UN can provide a military force by way of an enforcement mandate which provides deterrence to would-be spoilers. They can monitor the situation making the potential for surprise attack by one of the belligerents less likely to occur or by making it more difficult to carry out such an attack. A lightly-armed observer mission can also serve as an early-warning force or “tripwire” for the aforementioned enforcement mission. Aid and recognition provided to the belligerents by the international community should be made conditional and based on compliance with objectives laid out in the negotiating process. And lastly, peace dividends should be provided in the forms of jobs, public works and other benefits.\n\nTo reduce uncertainty and fear the UN Peacekeeping force can monitor the aforementioned compliance, facilitate communication between belligerents in order to ease security dilemma concerns thus reassuring belligerents that the other side will not renege, and allow for belligerents to signal their legitimate intentions for peace to the other side. That is to say, provide a meaningful pathway for communication between both sides to make their intentions known and credible.\n\nPrevention and control of potential accidents that may derail the peace process can be achieved by the peacekeeping force by deterring rogue groups. Belligerent forces are often undisciplined without a strong central source of command and control, therefore while a peace is being negotiated there is potential for a rogue group on one side to renege and spoil the peace process. UN forces can serve to prevent this. Additionally, the UN force can serve as a moderator and make communication easy between both parties and bring in political moderates from either side. By providing law and order UN peacekeeping forces can temporarily replace a state's security forces and prevent a bias overreaction to an alleged violation by one side which could in turn result in escalation and a renewal in the violence.\n\nPrevention of political abuse can be achieved through the reformation of institutions associated with the government. Training and monitoring the security forces (e.g. army or police) help to make them an unbiased protector of the people rather than a weapon of suppression for the ruling government. Hopefully this training can bring trust by the people for the security establishment. UN forces can also run and monitor elections in order to ensure a fair process. In other cases, the UN may provide a neutral interim government to administer the country during a transitional period wherein the associated government institutions are being retrained, reformed or better developed. Lastly, military groups such as armed rebels can be encouraged to put down their weapons and transformed into political organisations using appropriate non-violent means to mete out their grievances and compete in the election cycle. This is especially important as many of these groups serve as the chief opposition to a given government, but lack the means or know-how to operate effectively as political organisations.\n\nDifferent peacekeeping missions take place as a result of different causal mechanisms. More military deterrence and enforcement are meant for those missions operating under the auspices of Chapter VII, while Chapter VI missions are meant to serve more as monitoring forces and interpositional operations are meant to target and prevent potential political abuse—these are primarily multidimensional missions and are heavily involved in the post-conflict political situation.\n\nAccording to a 2014 survey of the academic literature, \"there is considerable evidence that [United Nations peacekeeping operations] are effective in maintaining peace.\" According to Fortna, there is strong evidence that the presence of peacekeepers significantly reduces the risk of renewed warfare; more peacekeeping troops contribute to fewer battlefield deaths; and more peacekeeping troops contribute to fewer civilian deaths. A study by political scientists at Uppsala University and Peace Research Institute Oslo estimates that an ambitious UN peacekeeping policy with a doubled peacekeeping operation and strong mandates would \"reduce the global incidence of armed conflict by two thirds relative to a no-PKO scenario.\" According to Fordham University political scientist Anjali Dayal, \"Scholars have found that peacekeeping keeps wars from bleeding across borders. Having more peacekeepers on the ground also seems to correspond with fewer civilians targeted with violence. And peace operations at times have successfully served as transitional authorities, handing power back to local authorities, although this is decreasingly true.\" There is also evidence that the promise to deploy peacekeepers can help international organizations bring combatants to the negotiation table and increase the likelihood that they will agree to a cease-fire.\n\nBy controlling for specific factors that affect where peacekeepers are deployed and what the potential chances for peace are, Page Fortna's statistical research shows that there is a statistically significant impact on lasting peace when peacekeepers are deployed. Despite the fact that peacekeepers are sent to locations where peace is least likely to succeed, Fortna finds that conservative estimates suggest that the presence of UN peacekeepers diminishes the risk for renewed violence by at least 55%-60%; with less conservatives estimates upwards of 75%-85%. Additionally, her analysis concludes that there is little difference in the effectiveness between Chapter VI consent-based missions and Chapter VII enforcement missions. Indeed, enforcement missions only remain effective if the UN peacekeeping force can prove and sustain their credibility in the use of force. This stresses the importance of a UN mission maintaining the consent of the peacekept. Ultimately, Fortna finds that peacekeeping is an effective tool for ensuring a lasting peace; especially compared to situations in which belligerents' are left to their own devices. Utilising the previously mentioned causal mechanisms for peacekeeping, a UN peacekeeping force can have a substantial and substantive impact on sustaining a lasting peace. Having a relative consensus of the positive impact of peacekeeping for ensuring a lasting peace, Fortna and Howard suggest that the literature is moving towards the study of i) the effectiveness of the types of peace-keepers, ii) the transitional administrations, iii) the links between peacekeeping and democratisation, and iv) the perspectives of the “peacekept\".\n\nDoyle and Sambanis' analysis finds that lasting peace is more likely after non-ethnic wars in countries with a relatively high level of development in addition to whether or not UN peacekeeping forces and financial assistance are available. They conclude that in the short run lasting peace is more dependent on a robust UN deployment coupled with low levels of hostility between belligerents. They note that increased economic capacity can provide an incentive not to renew hostilities. In the long run, however, economic capacity matters far more whereas the degree of hostility between belligerents is less important. As successful as UN deployments can be, they have inadequately spurred independent economic development within the countries where they have intervened. Thus, the UN plays a strong, but indirect role and success in lasting peace is predicated on the development of institutions that support peace, rather than serving as a deterrent for renewed war.\n\nOther scholarly analyses show varying success rates for peacekeeping missions, with estimate ranging from 31 percent to 85 percent.\n\nThere are many factors that can have a negative impact on lasting peace such as hidden information about the relative strength possessed by the belligerents; a rebel group's involvement in illicit financing through means such as through the export of diamonds and other minerals; participation in the trafficking of drugs, weapons and human beings; whether or not military victory was achieved by one side; the length of the war as well as how costly it was; commitment problems and security dilemma spirals experienced by both sides; whether a cease-fire or treaty signed by the belligerents; lack of transparency in the motives and actions carried out by belligerents in the immediate aftermath of the conflict; extremist spoilers; participants in the conflict that may benefit from its continuation; indivisibility and more.\n\nPerhaps one of the most statistically significant contributors to a lasting peace is whether or not military victory was achieved by one side. According to Fortna's research, civil wars in which one side wins, resulting in a cease-fire or truce, have an approximately 85%-90% lower chance of renewed war. Moreover, peace treaties further reduce the risk by 60%-70%.\n\nIf a group is funded by drugs, diamonds or other illicit trade then there is a substantial increase in the chance of renewed violence—100%-250%-- which is to say that in such circumstances war is two to three-and-a-half times more likely to begin again. While Fortna finds that wars which involve many factions are less likely to resume, Doyle and Sambanis find the opposite.\n\nCostly wars and wars fought along identity lines both provide varied chances of the renewal of violence. While longer wars and peace established by treaty (especially those attained by military victory) can reduce the chances of another war.\n\nSome commentators have highlighted the potential to leverage peacekeeping operations as a mechanism for advancing military normalisation. Michael Edward Walsh and Jeremy Taylor have argued that Japan's peacekeeping operations in South Sudan provide those promoting Japan's military normalisation with \"a unique opportunity to further erode the country’s pacifist constitution.\" \"Unable to accept the full weight of modern peacekeeping operations without fundamental political, legal, and social changes,\" they conclude that \"Japan’s peacekeepers remain ill-prepared to tackle many serious contingencies requiring use of deadly force.\" For this reason, they suggest that Japan's continued participation in UN peacekeeping operations might force policy changes that ultimately push the country toward \"a tipping point from which the normalisation of Japan’s military (will be) the only outcome.\"\n\nDiana Muir Appelbaum, has expressed concern that the creation of a military in Fiji for the purpose of serving in international peacekeeping missions, has produced a military powerful enough to stage four coups d’état (1987, 1999–2000, 2006, and 2009) and to rule Fiji as a military dictatorship for over two decades. However, a 2018 study published in the Journal of Peace Research, found that countries where militaries are highly dependent on the funds they receive from UN peacekeeping were less likely to experience coups d’états than comparable countries less dependent on such funds.\n\nStudies of peacekeeping soldiers show both positive and negative effects. A study of 951 US Army soldiers assigned to Bosnia revealed that 77% reported some positive consequences, 63% reported a negative consequence, and 47% reported both. The peacekeepers are exposed to danger caused by the warring parties and often in an unfamiliar climate. This gives rise to different mental health problems, suicide, and substance abuse as shown by the percentage of former peacekeepers with those problems. Having a parent in a mission abroad for an extended period is also stressful to the peacekeepers' families.\n\nAnother viewpoint raises the problem that the peacekeeping may soften the troops and erode their combat ability, as the mission profile of a peacekeeping contingent is totally different from the profile of a unit fighting an all-out war.\n\nSince the 1990s, UN Peacekeepers have been the subject of numerous accusations of abuse ranging from rape and sexual assault, to pedophilia and human trafficking. Complaints have arisen from Cambodia, East Timor and West Africa. In Bosnia-Herzegovina prostitution associated with trafficked women skyrocketed and often operated just beyond the gates of U.N. compounds. David Lamb, a regional human rights officer in Bosnia from 2000 to 2001 claimed “The sex slave trade in Bosnia largely exists because of the U.N. peacekeeping operation. Without the peacekeeping presence, there would have been little or no forced prostitution in Bosnia.” In addition, hearing held by the U.S. House of Representatives in 2002 found that members of SFOR were frequenting Bosnian brothels and engaging in sex with trafficked women and underage girls.\n\nReporters witnessed a rapid increase in prostitution in Cambodia, Mozambique, Bosnia, and Kosovo after UN and, in the case of the latter two, NATO peacekeeping forces moved in. In the 1996 UN study called \"The Impact of Armed Conflict on Children\", former first lady of Mozambique Graça Machel documented: \"In 6 out of 12 country studies on sexual exploitation of children in situations of armed conflict prepared for the present report, the arrival of peacekeeping troops has been associated with a rapid rise in child prostitution\".\n\nGita Sahgal spoke out in 2004 with regard to the fact that prostitution and sex abuse crops up wherever humanitarian intervention efforts are set up. She observed that the \"issue with the UN is that peacekeeping operations unfortunately seem to be doing the same thing that other militaries do. Even the guardians have to be guarded\".\n\nAn investigation by Prince Zeid Ra’ad Zeid Al-Hussein, then Permanent Representative of Jordan to the United Nations, in 2006 resulted in a comprehensive report which detailed some of this abuse in detail— particularly that which occurred in the Democratic Republic of Congo. Sexual exploitation frequently came in the form of prostitution, wherein some money (an average of $1-$3 per encounter) was exchanged for sex. In other instances food, or jobs were utilized to ply women for sex. Other young women reported of “rape disguised as prostitution”, whereabouts Peacekeepers would rape them and were then given some money or food in order to make the act seem consensual. Between May and September 2004, there were seventy-two allegations of sexual exploitation—68 against military and 4 against civilian personnel. By the end of 2004 there would be a total of 105 allegations. The majority of these allegations were in regards to sex with person under the age of 18 years (45 percent) and sex with adult prostitutes (31 percent). Rape and sexual assault made up approximately 13 and 5 percent respectively, with the remaining 6 percent of allegations relating to other forms of sexual exploitation. Most of the allegations were against peacekeepers from Pakistan, Uruguay, Morocco, Tunisia, South Africa, and Nepal.\n\nUruguayan President Jose Mujica apologized to Haitian President Michel Martelly over the alleged rape of an 18-year-old Haitian man by Uruguayan UN peacekeeping troops. Martelly said \"a collective rape carried out against a young Haitian\" would not go unpunished. Four soldiers suspected of being involved in the rape have been detained.\n\nIn July 2007 the United Nations Department of Peacekeeping Operations (DPKO) confined an entire contingent of 734 Moroccans in the Ivory Coast in the wake of allegations that some had sexually abused underage girls. In the following years, there were 80 investigations carried out by the UN Office of Internal Oversight Services (OIOS). In 2013, allegations were levelled on personnel from France, Gabon, and Burundi operating in the Central African Republic. These include accusations of sexual abuse and exploitation of at least 108 from Kemo Prefecture and that the vast majority of the cases involved minors. In 2016, more allegations of abuse were levelled on Peacekeepers operating in the Democratic Republic of Congo's eastern province of North Kivu. Tanzania and the UN opened a joint inquiry into the alleged abuse, which involved Tanzanian troops. There have been 18 reports of sexual abuse, eight of which involved minors. Sixteen Tanzanian soldiers, a Malawian and a South African are implicated in the accusations. The UN reported in March 2016 that there was a large increase in allegations; which involved troops from twenty one countries. Most of the allegations involved troops from African countries including: Cameroon, Congo, Tanzania, Benin, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Ghana, Madagascar, Niger, Nigeria, Rwanda, Senegal and Togo.\n\nSignificant scientific evidence, first reported by the Associated Press, and later the \"New York Times\", \"Al Jazeera\", and ABC News has shown that Nepalese Peacekeeping troops stationed at a remote base in Mirebalais, Haiti, triggered a deadly cholera epidemic that has ravaged the country since October 2010. Cholera is a waterborne disease that causes diarrhoea and vomiting, and it can kill in a matter of hours if patients do not receive rehydration intervention. As of July 2012, Haiti's cholera epidemic was the worst in the world: about 7,500 had died and about 585,000 Haitians (about 1 in every 20 Haitians) had become ill with the disease.\n\nAccording to the UN-appointed Independent Panel of Experts on the Cholera Outbreak in Haiti, the conditions at the Peacekeeping base were unsafe, and allowed contamination of Haiti's river systems in at least two ways: \"The construction of the water pipes in the main toilet/showering area [was] haphazard, with significant potential for cross-contamination...especially from pipes that run over an open drainage ditch that runs throughout the camp and flows directly into the Meye Tributary System\". Additionally, the Independent Panel reported that on a regular basis black water waste from the Mirebalais base and two other bases was deposited in an open, unfenced septic pit that was susceptible to flooding and would overflow into the Meye Tributary during rainfall.\n\nIn November 2011, over 5,000 victims of the cholera epidemic filed a claim with the UN's internal claims mechanism seeking redress in the form of clean water and sanitation infrastructure necessary to control the epidemic, compensation for individual losses, and an apology. In July 2012, 104 Members of the United States Congress signed a letter affirming that the \"actions of the UN\" had brought cholera to Haiti and that the UN should \"confront and ultimately eliminate cholera\". In 2013 the UN rejected the claim and the victims' lawyers have pledged to sue the UN in court.\n\nThere is a notable intermingling of varied cultures when it comes to peacekeeping. From the vast number of troops, police and personnel that are brought together from various contributing countries to the oftentimes challenging ethnic regions which peacekeeping forces are often deployed. Because of these varied cultures, complicated cultural interactions take place which not only affect mission effectiveness, but can also lead to friction with the population the peacekeepers are meant to be assisting.\n\nIn most cases prior to 1988, specific countries often provided peacekeepers. At that point, only twenty six countries had sent personnel to participate in peacekeeping deployments. Today, that number has risen to more than eighty. This results in an extremely heterogeneous group. Thus, UN Peacekeeping deployments must not only contend with language complications, but also myriad cultural and social differences that can create operational difficulties that are hard to overcome. These difference can create problems with regard to interactions (whether personal or between institutions/units), misunderstandings, inadvertent offensive behaviour and prejudices that may be associated with a particular contingent from a given country.\n\nIn terms of operations, effectiveness can be hindered by the varying tactics, techniques and procedures employed by the military or police personnel that are a part of a given deployment. Because UN forces are cobbled together from so many different sources, there is a discrepancy in capabilities, training, equipment, standards and procedures. Moreover, substantial differences exist in the form of command and control between contributing members personnel. In addition, some nations may not wish to be subordinated to another, complicating unity of command. This can lead to deep-seated divisions between contingents within the UN force that results in a lack of mutual support between units in the field. This can be demonstrated in the experiences of UN peacekeeping forces deployed to East Timor, where the Australians engaged in a robust operation that maximised force protection in contrast to a pro-active heart and minds approach utilised by Great Britain's Ghurka personnel.\n\nMaintaining the consent of the peacekept is an important facet of modern peacekeeping. Notably in Bosnia, Somalia and Rwanda, fundamental principles of retaining that consent was ignored on the grounds of a humanitarian intervention—reflecting the nature of an Article VII intervention. Yet in order to stress and maintain the legitimacy of an intervention it is important that the UN's forces continue to enjoy the consent of the population and government of the country to which they were deployed. This means making the peacekept feel a part of the process in addition to important cultural knowledge of the area in which peacekeepers are operating, in order to reduce friction and provide for a successful operation.\n\nThere has been little study on the interaction of cultures that exist within a peacekeeping force and the population within which they operate. However, in 1976 Galtun and Hveem studied Norwegian personnel who participated in UNEF-1 (in Gaza) and ONUC (Congo). They posited that knowledge of the culture and an understanding of the inhabitants in a given country were not only necessary, but crucial for the success of the mission. They found that personnel from the Norwegian contingent wanted greater insight into the conflict and the culture in which they operated. They also wanted more robust training with regard to working with people from other countries. Yet the study revealed the troops received very little from briefings and that the majority of the information regarding the conflict was gained through the news, reading books or speaking with other UN personnel—rather than any established UN training program.\n\nSimilarly, a study conducted on the relations between members of UNIFIL and local population in Lebanon, carried out by Heiberg and Holst, all but confirmed the findings. In their example, they found that the countries that were able to integrate more fully with the population and show a depth of knowledge about the local culture were more successful, while those that were ambitious, but less integrated into the local scene found themselves far removed from the individuals with which they were supposed to be engaged with, and their success, or lack thereof, illustrated this.Only the Italian contingent of some 2,200 people operated as part of the local environment and became an active element in restoring normal living conditions. Its soldiers were provided with the training required to acquaint them with the cultural, political and social situation of the people among whom they worked. Operating in a sector that contained approximately 600,000 inhabitants, mostly Shi'ites, the Italians carefully nurtured contact with the ordinary citizens and the political leaders in their area... While the Americans thought they were becoming involved in Lebanese politics, they entered into Lebanese culture and history with little or no understanding of the way things worked-- or didn't work... Most Americans did not understand the subtleties of short-term alliances, the length of memories and blood feuds, the strength of \"aln\" [kin] in Arab culture nor the nuances of religious differences.This illustrates the importance of understanding the significance that culture plays in the conduct of successful peacekeeping operations. However, despite the existence of a UN training manual that attempts to advise peacekeepers on necessary techniques, there is no unifying doctrine, or standardised procedure among peacekeeping contingents, which will ultimately hinder the potential for success.\n\nThroughout the duration of the Cold War external intervention and mediation in civil conflicts took on a state-centric mechanism in which sovereignty was inviolable. Rarely did the international community intervene in internal conflicts involving a state's government and domestic belligerents that opposed it. Since the end of the Cold War, however, that has changed. Today, mediation by international actors in civil conflict rest on a standardised resolution mechanism that accords broadly equal standing to all factions within a conflict, and attempts to reach a settlement accepted by all.\n\nThe end of the Cold War presented an opportunity to reshape the international system. This opportunity was afforded to the Cold War's victor's-- that is to say—the United States and other western capitalist states governed by liberal-democratic values that put a premium on basic human rights and democratization. In the preceding decades the state was the only entity to receive special status. While there were exceptions, such as groups struggling against colonial powers, the state possessed the ultimate degree of legitimacy. As a result, the international community rarely meddled with the internal machinations of a given country. Sovereignty was not to be violated and this was a system which benefited both superpowers, their allies, as well as third world governments.\n\nNow, however, with legitimacy being extended to non-state actors, as well as the opportunity for a minority to secede from a given state and form a new country there has been a dramatic shift in the international status quo. Moreover, the international community's model for conflict resolution is heavily influenced by academic thought developed in western countries. This model encourages intervening in civil wars in order to stop political violence and come to a negotiated settlement which often involves democratising efforts. Critics such as Christopher Clapham and David Shearer, argue that this intervention can provide mechanisms for continued conflict to the detriment of the civilian population. Clapham's argument is principally in relation to the situation in Rwanda leading up to the genocide, whereas Shearer focuses on the negative aspects of intervention, primarily regarding Sierra Leone, which prevents total victory by one side and results in the creation of asymmetries between belligerents which opens the door for continued bloodshed.\n\nIn Rwanda, third-party attempts at a negotiated settlement between the Hutu and Tutsi afforded an opportunity for Hutu extremists to prepare for the killing of Hutu moderates and the genocide of the Tutsi. The international community, led by regional states from the Organisation of African Unity, sought to negotiate a settlement and find a solution for the ongoing ethnic violence between Hutu and Tutsi via the Arusha Peace Process. This process lasted just over a year, included substantial international involvement, and incorporated many regional actors such as Tanzania (host of the process), Burundi, Uganda and Zaire.\n\nWhile the Rwandan Patriotic Front (RPF) was a major beneficiary of the Arusha accords and was able to redress many of its grievances, many of the gains that it made could have been achieved through military action. Arusha, according to Clapham, affected the relative power of the participants in the two following ways: a ceasefire which froze the distribution of territorial control at a particular point and secondly the importance it ascribed to the participants of the negotiations. Meaning that it froze the conflict and prevented continued territorial gains being made by the RPF, in addition to designating the degree of importance with regard to the factions within the negotiations. A faction's importance was weighted not on their relative popularity or military strength, but on artificial weight assigned by the mediators. Thus, the entire process served to undermine the RPF's position while stalling their hitherto successful military campaign, while allowing Hutu extremists to prepare for a genocide.\n\nShearer argues that modern strategies that rely solely on consent-based negotiations are severely limited and that victory by military means should not be ignored. He states that a shift in battlefield fortunes can often bring one belligerent to the negotiation table and will likewise moderate their demands.\n\nConsent is of great importance when it comes to negotiation and mediation. The current international system and the conflict resolution model which the international community has utilised most since the end of the Cold War puts a premium on consent. But Shearer asks that if a belligerent uses negotiations and cease-fires as a method of delay in order to allow them to reposition military forces and continue fighting, then should consent-based strategies still be pursued, regardless of the potential for lengthening a conflict and the associated human cost?\n\nAccording to the empirical analysis cited by Shearer, past civil wars with negotiated settlements have had little success. He cites a study from John Stedman that notes between 1900 and 1980 85% of civil wars were solved by one side winning outright (this excludes colonial wars). 15% percent ended as a result of negotiation. Additionally, Roy Licklider's study supports these conclusions by noting the following:\"From 1945 to 1989, 58 out of a total of 93 civil conflicts, as he categorised them, were settled in some form, while the remainder continued. However, only 14 (or 24 percent) of those settled were solved by negotiation. The others (76 percent) ended with military victories. Additionally, fighting resumed in seven of the 14 conflict which were initially ended by negotiation. The overall success rate of negotiated settlements, therefore, was around 12 percent out of the internal wars that ended.\"In Sierra Leone the Revolutionary United Front, led by Foday Sankoh, fought an ongoing and bloody civil war with the government from 1991 to 1996. The conflict attracted little international attention, but managed to devastate the country and destroy its economy. Neither belligerent was willing to concede or compromise on their demands, despite multiple attempts at a negotiated settlement. It was not until the intervention of the private military corporation Executive Outcomes and a reversal in the RUF's battlefield fortunes that Sankoh would come to the table.\n\nIn the aftermath the RUF was a depleted threat, civilians were able to return from refugee camps and begin rebuilding their lives. But the peace was fragile and negotiations were ongoing. The RUF was reluctant to put down their arms, concerned over potential retribution at the hands of army units and civilian militias alike. There was a planned deployment of UN peacekeepers meant to ease these concerns and help with the transition to peace, but things began to unravel. International contributors began to shy away from further peacekeeping initiatives; such as an expensive and open-ended mission in a strategically unimportant country. As a result, the UN's intervention force was slow to come to fruition and then came to a halt completely when Sankoh argued the size of the contingent of 740 UN peacekeepers was too large.\n\nThe UN refused to engage without total consent from both parties, thus preventing the deployment of a peacekeeping force. This consent-based approach, Shearer argues, illustrates the limits the UN can play in the volatile and fragile state of affairs that exist during and after civil wars. \"In Sierra Leone, it meant that an important component needed to shore up the peace-building process was absent. It also meant that Sankoh was dictating terms.\" This consent-based approach effectively allowed the leadership of a brutal rebel group to hinder the potential for peace.\n\nThe situation was exacerbated by the fact that the newly elected President of Sierra Leone terminated the Executive Outcomes contract undermining his hard power advantage. Things were further inflamed when disaffected officers of the army overthrew the government in 1997. The war quickly renewed. A small UN force of monitors was deployed to observe the security situation. UNOMSIL, as it was called, was deployed between July 1998 and October 1999, but was forced to withdraw from the country when the RUF took the country's capitol.\n\nUNAMSIL was eventually formed and deployed in 1999, authorised under a Chapter VII mandate, it was meant to enforce the Lome agreements. However, violence would continue. From the outset the RUF was beyond uncooperative and once the ECOMOG contingent withdrew, the RUF attacked UN forces, eventually taking hundreds hostage. This led to an unexpected backlash from the international community that the RUF did not anticipate. Its leadership had expected the international community to cut and run, as it had done in Somalia and earlier when UNOMSIL fled Freetown. Instead, with British support, an aggressive campaign was waged against the RUF. UNAMSIL's mandate was expanded and its manpower enlarged. By late 2000 and early 2001 the RUF's military strength had been severely depleted. Thus the Abuja agreements were signed and UNAMSIL fulfilled its mandate in December 2005. While Sierra Leone is at peace today and the UN's mission can be deemed a success, the way in which the situation developed illustrates Shearer's point: that a consent-based approach focused on negotiation that encompasses all belligerents' interest may not necessarily lead to success. As we see, fighting continued despite the presence of UNOMSIL. Indeed, even after UNOMSIL was replaced by a more robust force under a Chapter VII mandate in the form of UNAMSIL the violence continued. It was not until the British intervened militarily and substantially degraded the RUF's capability to sustain the conflict, as Executive Outcomes had done years prior, did the RUF finally come to the negotiating table and allow for the establishment of peace.\n\nSome authors question the idea of international interventions at all. In a 2005 working paper for the Center for Global Development, Jeremy Weinstein of Stanford University provides a theory of “autonomous recovery,” in which states can achieve sustainable peace without international intervention. Using case studies of Uganda, Eritrea, and Somalia, Weinstein demonstrates how states can develop effective institutions out of warfare. This method has cost and benefits that must be weighed against the potential outcome of international intervention. External intervention can stop mass atrocities, but also stop institutional change. Autonomous recovery elevates the strongest leader, but also rewards the strongest fighters who may be less inclined to share power. Furthermore, intervention depends on external influence while autonomous recovery is based on internal factors. The conclusions of his argument could suggest intervention is not ideal policy, but Weinstein argues the international community's “responsibility to protect” doctrine has moral importance for intervention and the conditions for “autonomous recovery” are very rare. Weinstein argues the fundamental challenge is how to incentivise good governance and assistance to rebel groups without disrupting the connection of citizens to rulers in terms of revenue collection that enables accountability.\n\nAlthough acknowledging a number of practical and moral reasons for peacekeeping operations, James Fearon and David Laitin assert that they have a tendency under some circumstances to become tangled with state-building efforts. In weak states facing successful guerrilla campaigns, peacekeepers face pressures to build state institutional and administrative capacity in order to achieve lasting peace. These pressures can lead to mission creep beyond the original purview of the peacekeeping operation; without engaging in state-building, the peacekeepers risk allowing the peacekept country to revert to violence following their exit. Thus, Fearon and Laitin advocate for the greater integration of state-building in peacekeeping efforts through a new framework of \"neotrusteeship,\" which would see foreign powers exercising a great deal of control over a weak state's domestic affairs in order to ensure the prevention of future violence.\n\nA growing critique of peacekeeping is the lack of engagement between the peacekeeping officials and the local populace. As Séverine Autesserre outlines in a 2015 Foreign Policy article, this creates an environment where the peacekeeping officials develop plans to ‘keep’ the peace, but they are disconnected from reality, having the opposite effect on the ground. Additionally, it creates a reinforcement mechanism for the peacekeeping officials, because the officials on the ground report that their plan was successfully implemented, but, in reality, it had adverse effects. If the situation on the ground turns into another outbreak of violence, the local populace will be blamed.\n\nThis criticism is similar to the critic levelled at development in developing countries by authors such as James C. Scott, James Ferguson, and L. Lohman. Although peacekeeping and development are two different things, the logic behind the criticism is the same. The third-party officials-whether they are peacekeepers or agents of development-are isolated from the general populace, believing they know what is best, and refusing to gather information from a ground level. This is not out of maliciousness or imperialism, but out of a legitimate belief that they, as educated officials with access to other experts and who are well versed in development and peacekeeping literature, know what is best.\n\nIn response to criticism, particularly of the cases of sexual abuse by peacekeepers, the UN has taken steps toward reforming its operations. The Brahimi Report was the first of many steps to recap former peacekeeping missions, isolate flaws, and take steps to patch these mistakes to ensure the efficiency of future peacekeeping missions. The UN has vowed to continue to put these practices into effect when performing peacekeeping operations in the future. The technocratic aspects of the reform process have been continued and revitalised by the DPKO in its \"Peace Operations 2010\" reform agenda. This included an increase in personnel, the harmonisation of the conditions of service of field and headquarters staff, the development of guidelines and standard operating procedures, and improving the partnership arrangement between the Department of Peacekeeping Operations (DPKO) and the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), African Union, and European Union. A 2008 capstone doctrine entitled \"United Nations Peacekeeping Operations: Principles and Guidelines\" incorporates and builds on the Brahimi analysis.\n\nOne of the main issues that the Brahimi report identifies is the lack of coordination and planning of the Peacekeeping Operations. Also, the difference between the objectives of the Peacekeeping Operations and the resources destined to fund the missions. Therefore, the report asks the Security Council to make clear the goals and the resources to accomplish them. According to Fearon and Laitin, the Brahimi Report provides a political instrument for the secretary-general to negotiate with the Security Council the goals, the troops, and the resources need it to the operations. This instrument tries to avoid the cases of underfunding presented in Missions such as in Bosnia, Somalia, and Sierra Leone.\n\nChristine Gray analyses the issues of implementing the recommendations of the Brahimi Report. She explains the difficulty in implementing these recommendations. In particular, in reducing the gap between the mandates of Security Council and the actual resources devoted to implementing them.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15999483", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15999483", "title": "Peter Nigri", "text": "Peter Nigri\n\nPeter Nigri (Latinized from Schwartz), known also as Peter George Niger (b. 1434 at Kaaden in Bohemia; d. between 1481 and 1484), was a Dominican theologian, preacher and controversialist.\n\nHe studied at different universities (Salamanca, Montpellier, Bologna, etc.) and entered the Dominican Order in 1452 at Eichstätt, Bavaria. After his religious profession he took up philosophy and theology at Leipzig, where he also produced his first literary work \"De modo praedicandi\" (1457). In 1459 he defended publicly in Freiburg a series of theses so successfully that the provincial chapter then in session there sent him to the University of Bologna for advanced courses in theology and canon law.\n\nRecalled after two years, he was made lector of theology and engaged in teaching and preaching. In 1465 he taught philosophy and was regent of studies in Cologne; in 1467 taught theology at Ulm; in 1469 or 1470 was elected prior in Eichstätt, on 31 May 1473, the newly founded University of Ingolstadt conferred on him the degree of Doctor of Theology; in 1474 he taught theology in the convent at Ratisbon and in 1478 became professor of Old Testament exegesis in the University of Ingolstadt.\n\nShortly after, on the invitation of the patron of learning, Matthias Corvinus, King of Hungary, he became rector of his newly erected Academy of Philosophy, Theology, and Sacred Scripture at Buda, in gratitude for which Nigri dedicated to the king his \"Clypeus Thomistarum adversus omnes doctrinae doctoris angelici obtrectatores\" (Venice, 1481), in which he defends the teaching of Thomas Aquinas against the Scotists and Nominalists.\n\nNiger was an eminent theologian and preacher, and an orthodox disciple of Aquinas. In his theological works he mainly limits himself to the discussion of questions of logic and psychology.\n\nHe devoted most of his time to preaching to the Jews. He had learned their language and become familiar with their literature at Salamanca and Montpellier by associating with Jewish children and attending the lectures of the rabbis. At Ratisbon, Worms, and Frankfort-on-the-Main he preached in German, Latin, and Hebrew, frequently challenging the rabbis to a disputation.\n\nHe wrote two anti-Semitic works, one in Latin, \"Tractatus contra Perfidos Judaeos\" (Esslingen, 1475), which is probably the earliest printed anti-Jewish work, and in which he severely attacked the Jews and the \"Talmud\". The other, written in German, is entitled \"Stern des Messias\" (Esslingen, 1477). Reuchlin in his \"Augenspiegel\" declared them absurd.\n\nBoth works have appendices giving the Hebrew alphabet in Hebrew and Latin type, rules of grammar and for reading Hebrew, the Decalogue in Hebrew, and some Messianic texts from the Old Testament. They are among the earliest specimens of Hebrew printing in Germany, and the first attempt at Hebrew grammar in that country by a Christian scholar. They were later published separately as \"Commentatio de primis linguae Hebraicae elementis\" (Altdorf, 1764).\n\nPeter Teuto, O. P. (Quétif, I, 855) and Peter Eystettensis (Eck, \"Chrysopassus Cent.\", XLIX) are most probably to be identified with this Peter Nigri.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15945142", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15945142", "title": "Praepositinus", "text": "Praepositinus\n\nPraepositinus (Gilbert Prevostin of Cremona, Prevostinus Cremonensis) ( 1135 – 1210) was an Italian scholastic philosopher and theologian. He was a liturgical commentator, and supporter a \"res\"-theory of belief. He discussed intentional contexts.\n\nHaving studied under Peter the Eater and taught at Paris, he went to Mainz Cathedral in 1196. Returning, he was Chancellor of the University of Paris from c. 1206 to 1209.\n\nA \"Summa contra haereticos\" from around 1200 was once attributed to him.\n\n"}
{"id": "42900", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42900", "title": "Pythagorean tuning", "text": "Pythagorean tuning\n\nPythagorean tuning is a system of musical tuning in which the frequency ratios of all intervals are based on the ratio 3:2. This ratio, also known as the \"pure\" perfect fifth, is chosen because it is one of the most consonant and easiest to tune by ear and because of importance attributed to the integer 3. As Novalis put it, \"The musical proportions seem to me to be particularly correct natural proportions.\" Alternatively, it can be described as the tuning of the syntonic temperament in which the generator is the ratio 3:2 (i.e., the untempered perfect fifth), which is ~702 cents wide.\n\nThe system had been mainly attributed to Pythagoras (sixth century BC) by modern authors of music theory, while Ptolemy, and later Boethius, ascribed the division of the tetrachord by only two intervals, called \"semitonium\", \"tonus\", \"tonus\" in Latin (256:243 x 9:8 x 9:8), to Eratosthenes. The so-called \"Pythagorean tuning\" was used by musicians up to the beginning of the 16th century. \"The Pythagorean system would appear to be ideal because of the purity of the fifths, but some consider other intervals, particularly the major third, to be so badly out of tune that major chords [may be considered] a dissonance.\"\n\nThe Pythagorean scale is any scale which may be constructed from only pure perfect fifths (3:2) and octaves (2:1). In Greek music it was used to tune tetrachords and the twelve tone Pythagorean temperament was developed by medieval music theorists using the same method of tuning in perfect fifths, however there is no evidence that Pythagoras himself went beyond the tetrachord. A distinction can be made between extended Pythagorean tuning and a 12-tone Pythagorean temperament. Extended Pythagorean tuning corresponds 1-on-1 with western music notation and there is no limit to the number of fifths. In 12-tone Pythagorean temperament however one is limited by 12-tones per octave and one cannot play most music according to the Pythagorean system corresponding to the enharmonic notation, instead one finds that for instance the diminished sixth becomes a \"wolf fifth\".\n\n12-tone Pythagorean temperament is based on a stack of intervals called perfect fifths, each tuned in the ratio 3:2, the next simplest ratio after 2:1. Starting from D for example (\"D-based\" tuning), six other notes are produced by moving six times a ratio 3:2 up, and the remaining ones by moving the same ratio down:\n\nThis succession of eleven 3:2 intervals spans across a wide range of frequency (on a piano keyboard, it encompasses 77 keys). Since notes differing in frequency by a factor of 2 are given the same name, it is customary to divide or multiply the frequencies of some of these notes by 2 or by a power of 2. The purpose of this adjustment is to move the 12 notes within a smaller range of frequency, namely within the interval between the base note D and the D above it (a note with twice its frequency). This interval is typically called the basic octave (on a piano keyboard, an octave encompasses only 13 keys ).\n\nFor instance, the A is tuned such that its frequency equals 3:2 times the frequency of D—if D is tuned to a frequency of 288 Hz, then A is tuned to 432 Hz. Similarly, the E above A is tuned such that its frequency equals 3:2 times the frequency of A, or 9:4 times the frequency of D—with A at 432 Hz, this puts E at 648 Hz. Since this E is outside the above-mentioned basic octave (i.e. its frequency is more than twice the frequency of the base note D), it is usual to halve its frequency to move it within the basic octave. Therefore, E is tuned to 324 Hz, a 9:8 (= one epogdoon) above D. The B at 3:2 above that E is tuned to the ratio 27:16 and so on. Starting from the same point working the other way, G is tuned as 3:2 below D, which means that it is assigned a frequency equal to 2:3 times the frequency of D—with D at 288 Hz, this puts G at 192 Hz. This frequency is then doubled (to 384 Hz) to bring it into the basic octave.\n\nWhen extending this tuning however, a problem arises: no stack of 3:2 intervals (perfect fifths) will fit exactly into any stack of 2:1 intervals (octaves). For instance a stack such as this, obtained by adding one more note to the stack shown above\n\nwill be similar but not identical in size to a stack of 7 octaves. More exactly, it will be about a quarter of a semitone larger, called the Pythagorean comma. Thus, A and G, when brought into the basic octave, will not coincide as expected. The table below illustrates this, showing for each note in the basic octave the conventional name of the interval from D (the base note), the formula to compute its frequency ratio, its size in cents, and the difference in cents (labeled ET-dif in the table) between its size and the size of the corresponding one in the equally tempered scale.\n\nIn the formulas, the ratios 3:2 or 2:3 represent an ascending or descending perfect fifth (i.e. an increase or decrease in frequency by a perfect fifth, while 2:1 or 1:2 represent an rising or lowering octave.\n\nThe major scale based on C, obtained from this tuning is:\n\nIn equal temperament, pairs of enharmonic notes such as A and G are thought of as being exactly the same note—however, as the above table indicates, in Pythagorean tuning they have different ratios with respect to D, which means they are at a different frequency. This discrepancy, of about 23.46 cents, or nearly one quarter of a semitone, is known as a \"Pythagorean comma\".\n\nTo get around this problem, Pythagorean tuning constructs only twelve notes as above, with eleven fifths between them. For example, one may use only the 12 notes from E to G. This, as shown above, implies that only eleven just fifths are used to build the entire chromatic scale. The remaining interval (the diminished sixth from G to E) is left badly out-of-tune, meaning that any music which combines those two notes is unplayable in this tuning. A very out-of-tune interval such as this one is known as a \"wolf interval\". In the case of Pythagorean tuning, all the fifths are 701.96 cents wide, in the exact ratio 3:2, except the wolf fifth, which is only 678.49 cents wide, nearly a quarter of a semitone flatter.\nIf the notes G and E need to be sounded together, the position of the wolf fifth can be changed. For example, a C-based Pythagorean tuning would produce a stack of fifths running from D to F, making F-D the wolf interval. However, there will always be one wolf fifth in Pythagorean tuning, making it impossible to play in all keys in tune.\n\nThe table above shows only intervals from D. However, intervals can be formed by starting from each of the above listed 12 notes. Thus, twelve intervals can be defined for each interval type (twelve unisons, twelve semitones, twelve intervals composed of 2 semitones, twelve intervals composed of 3 semitones, etc.).\n\nAs explained above, one of the twelve fifths (the wolf fifth) has a different size with respect to the other eleven. For a similar reason, each of the other interval types, except for the unisons and the octaves, has two different sizes in Pythagorean tuning. This is the price paid for seeking just intonation. The tables on the right and below show their frequency ratios and their approximate sizes in cents. Interval names are given in their standard shortened form. For instance, the size of the interval from D to A, which is a perfect fifth (P5), can be found in the seventh column of the row labeled D. Strictly just (or pure) intervals are shown in bold font. Wolf intervals are highlighted in red.\n\nThe reason why the interval sizes vary throughout the scale is that the pitches forming the scale are unevenly spaced. Namely, the frequencies defined by construction for the twelve notes determine two different semitones (i.e. intervals between adjacent notes):\n\n\nConversely, in an equally tempered chromatic scale, by definition the twelve pitches are equally spaced, all semitones having a size of exactly\nAs a consequence all intervals of any given type have the same size (e.g., all major thirds have the same size, all fifths have the same size, etc.). The price paid, in this case, is that none of them is justly tuned and perfectly consonant, except, of course, for the unison and the octave.\n\nBy definition, in Pythagorean tuning 11 perfect fifths (P5 in the table) have a size of approximately 701.955 cents (700+ε cents, where ε ≈ 1.955 cents). Since the average size of the 12 fifths must equal exactly 700 cents (as in equal temperament), the other one must have a size of 700−11ε cents, which is about 678.495 cents (the wolf fifth). Notice that, as shown in the table, the latter interval, although enharmonically equivalent to a fifth, is more properly called a diminished sixth (d6). Similarly,\n\nIn short, similar differences in width are observed for all interval types, except for unisons and octaves, and they are all multiples of ε, the difference between the Pythagorean fifth and the average fifth.\n\nNotice that, as an obvious consequence, each augmented or diminished interval is exactly 12ε (≈ 23.460) cents narrower or wider than its enharmonic equivalent. For instance, the d6 (or wolf fifth) is 12ε cents narrower than each P5, and each A2 is 12ε cents wider than each m3. This interval of size 12ε is known as a Pythagorean comma, exactly equal to the opposite of a diminished second (≈ −23.460 cents). This implies that ε can be also defined as one twelfth of a Pythagorean comma.\n\nFour of the above-mentioned intervals take a specific name in Pythagorean tuning. In the following table, these specific names are provided, together with alternative names used generically for some other intervals. Notice that the Pythagorean comma does not coincide with the diminished second, as its size (524288:531441) is the reciprocal of the Pythagorean diminished second (531441:524288). Also \"ditone\" and \"semiditone\" are specific for Pythagorean tuning, while \"tone\" and \"tritone\" are used generically for all tuning systems. Despite its name, a semiditone (3 semitones, or about 300 cents) can hardly be viewed as half of a ditone (4 semitones, or about 400 cents). All the intervals with prefix \"sesqui-\" are justly tuned, and their frequency ratio, shown in the table, is a superparticular number (or epimoric ratio). The same is true for the octave.\n\nBecause of the wolf interval when using a 12-tone Pythagorean temperament, this tuning is rarely used today, although it is thought to have been widespread. In music which does not change key very often, or which is not very harmonically adventurous, the wolf interval is unlikely to be a problem, as not all the possible fifths will be heard in such pieces. In extended Pythagorean tuning there is no wolf interval, all perfect fifths are exactly 3:2.\n\nBecause most fifths in 12-tone Pythagorean temperament are in the simple ratio of 3:2, they sound very \"smooth\" and consonant. The thirds, by contrast, most of which are in the relatively complex ratios of 81:64 (for major thirds) and 32:27 (for minor thirds), sound less smooth depending on the instrument.\n\nFrom about 1510 onward, as thirds came to be treated as consonances, meantone temperament, and particularly quarter-comma meantone, which tunes thirds to the relatively simple ratio of 5:4, became the most popular system for tuning keyboards. At the same time, syntonic-diatonic just intonation was posited first by Ramos and then by Zarlino as the normal tuning for singers.\n\nHowever, meantone presented its own harmonic challenges. Its wolf intervals proved to be even worse than those of the Pythagorean tuning (so much so that it often required 19 keys to the octave as opposed to the 12 in Pythagorean tuning). As a consequence, meantone was not suitable for all music. From around the 18th century, as the desire grew for instruments to change key, and therefore to avoid a wolf interval, this led to the widespread use of well temperaments and eventually equal temperament.\n\nPythagorean temperament can still be heard in some parts of modern classical music from singers and from instruments with no fixed tuning such as the violin family. Where a performer has an unaccompanied passage based on scales, they will tend towards using Pythagorean intonation as that will make the scale sound best in tune, then reverting to other temperaments for other passages (just intonation for chordal or arpeggiated figures, and equal temperament when accompanied with piano or orchestra). This can be seen in the first bar of Bach's Sonata no.1 for unaccompanied violin, where the b-flat in the opening chord is played naturally in just intonation and sounds flatter than the subsequent b-flat which appears in a descending scale and is naturally Pythagorean. Such changes are never explicitly notated and are scarcely noticeable to the audience, just sounding 'in tune'.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25524", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25524", "title": "Research", "text": "Research\n\nResearch comprises \"creative and systematic work undertaken to increase the stock of knowledge, including knowledge of humans, culture and society, and the use of this stock of knowledge to devise new applications.\" It is used to establish or confirm facts, reaffirm the results of previous work, solve new or existing problems, support theorems, or develop new theories. A research project may also be an expansion on past work in the field. Research projects can be used to develop further knowledge on a topic, or in the example of a school research project, they can be used to further a student's research prowess to prepare them for future jobs or reports. To test the validity of instruments, procedures, or experiments, research may replicate elements of prior projects or the project as a whole. The primary purposes of basic research (as opposed to applied research) are documentation, discovery, interpretation, or the research and development (R&D) of methods and systems for the advancement of human knowledge. Approaches to research depend on epistemologies, which vary considerably both within and between humanities and sciences. There are several forms of research: scientific, humanities, artistic, economic, social, business, marketing, practitioner research, life, technological, etc.\n\nThe word \"research\" is derived from the Middle French \"recherche\", which means \"to go about seeking\", the term itself being derived from the Old French term \"recerchier\" a compound word from \"re-\" + \"cerchier\", or \"sercher\", meaning 'search'. The earliest recorded use of the term was in 1577.\n\nResearch has been defined in a number of different ways, and while there are similarities, there does not appear to be a single, all-encompassing definition that is embraced by all who engage in it.\n\nOne definition of research is used by the OECD, \"Any creative systematic activity undertaken in order to increase the stock of knowledge, including knowledge of man, culture and society, and the use of this knowledge to devise new applications.\"\n\nAnother definition of research is given by John W. Creswell, who states that \"research is a process of steps used to collect and analyze information to increase our understanding of a topic or issue\". It consists of three steps: pose a question, collect data to answer the question, and present an answer to the question.\n\nThe Merriam-Webster Online Dictionary defines research in more detail as \"studious inquiry or examination; \"especially\" : investigation or experimentation aimed at the discovery and interpretation of facts, revision of accepted theories or laws in the light of new facts, or practical application of such new or revised theories or laws\"\n\nOriginal research is research that is not exclusively based on a summary, review or synthesis of earlier publications on the subject of research. This material is of a primary source character. The purpose of the original research is to produce new knowledge, rather than to present the existing knowledge in a new form (\"e.g.\", summarized or classified).\n\nOriginal research can take a number of forms, depending on the discipline it pertains to. In experimental work, it typically involves direct or indirect observation of the researched subject(s), e.g., in the laboratory or in the field, documents the methodology, results, and conclusions of an experiment or set of experiments, or offers a novel interpretation of previous results. In analytical work, there are typically some new (for example) mathematical results produced, or a new way of approaching an existing problem. In some subjects which do not typically carry out experimentation or analysis of this kind, the originality is in the particular way existing understanding is changed or re-interpreted based on the outcome of the work of the researcher.\n\nThe degree of originality of the research is among major criteria for articles to be published in academic journals and usually established by means of peer review. Graduate students are commonly required to perform original research as part of a dissertation.\n\nScientific research is a systematic way of gathering data and harnessing curiosity. This research provides scientific information and theories for the explanation of the nature and the properties of the world. It makes practical applications possible. Scientific research is funded by public authorities, by charitable organizations and by private groups, including many companies. Scientific research can be subdivided into different classifications according to their academic and application disciplines. Scientific research is a widely used criterion for judging the standing of an academic institution, but some argue that such is an inaccurate assessment of the institution, because the quality of research does not tell about the quality of teaching (these do not necessarily correlate).\n\nResearch in the humanities involves different methods such as for example hermeneutics and semiotics. Humanities scholars usually do not search for the ultimate correct answer to a question, but instead, explore the issues and details that surround it. Context is always important, and context can be social, historical, political, cultural, or ethnic. An example of research in the humanities is historical research, which is embodied in historical method. Historians use primary sources and other evidence to systematically investigate a topic, and then to write histories in the form of accounts of the past. Other studies aim to merely examine the occurrence of behaviours in societies and communities, without particularly looking for reasons or motivations to explain these. These studies may be qualitative or quantitative, and can use a variety of approaches, such as queer theory or feminist theory.\n\nArtistic research, also seen as 'practice-based research', can take form when creative works are considered both the research and the object of research itself. It is the debatable body of thought which offers an alternative to purely scientific methods in research in its search for knowledge and truth.\n\nGenerally, research is understood to follow a certain structural process. Though step order may vary depending on the subject matter and researcher, the following steps are usually part of most formal research, both basic and applied:\n\nA common misconception is that a hypothesis will be proven (see, rather, null hypothesis). Generally, a hypothesis is used to make predictions that can be tested by observing the outcome of an experiment. If the outcome is inconsistent with the hypothesis, then the hypothesis is rejected (see falsifiability). However, if the outcome is consistent with the hypothesis, the experiment is said to support the hypothesis. This careful language is used because researchers recognize that alternative hypotheses may also be consistent with the observations. In this sense, a hypothesis can never be proven, but rather only supported by surviving rounds of scientific testing and, eventually, becoming widely thought of as true.\n\nA useful hypothesis allows prediction and within the accuracy of observation of the time, the prediction will be verified. As the accuracy of observation improves with time, the hypothesis may no longer provide an accurate prediction. In this case, a new hypothesis will arise to challenge the old, and to the extent that the new hypothesis makes more accurate predictions than the old, the new will supplant it. Researchers can also use a null hypothesis, which states no relationship or difference between the independent or dependent variables.\n\nThe historical method comprises the techniques and guidelines by which historians use historical sources and other evidence to research and then to write history. There are various history guidelines that are commonly used by historians in their work, under the headings of external criticism, internal criticism, and synthesis. This includes lower criticism and sensual criticism. Though items may vary depending on the subject matter and researcher, the following concepts are part of most formal historical research:\n\nThe controversial trend of artistic teaching becoming more academics-oriented is leading to artistic research being accepted as the primary mode of enquiry in art as in the case of other disciplines. One of the characteristics of artistic research is that it must accept subjectivity as opposed to the classical scientific methods. As such, it is similar to the social sciences in using qualitative research and intersubjectivity as tools to apply measurement and critical analysis.\n\nArtistic research has been defined by the University of Dance and Circus (Dans och Cirkushögskolan, DOCH), Stockholm in the following manner - \"Artistic research is to investigate and test with the purpose of gaining knowledge within and for our artistic disciplines. It is based on artistic practices, methods, and criticality. Through presented documentation, the insights gained shall be placed in a context.\" Artistic research aims to enhance knowledge and understanding with presentation of the arts. A more simple understanding by Julian Klein defines Artistic Research as any kind of research employing the artistic mode of perception. For a survey of the central problematics of today's Artistic Research, see Giaco Schiesser.\n\nAccording to artist Hakan Topal, in artistic research, \"perhaps more so than other disciplines, intuition is utilized as a method to identify a wide range of new and unexpected productive modalities\". Most writers, whether of fiction or non-fiction books, also have to do research to support their creative work. This may be factual, historical, or background research. Background research could include, for example, geographical or procedural research.\n\nThe Society for Artistic Research (SAR) publishes the triannual \"Journal for Artistic Research\" (JAR), an international, online, open access, and peer-reviewed journal for the identification, publication, and dissemination of artistic research and its methodologies, from all arts disciplines and it runs the \"Research Catalogue\" (RC), a searchable, documentary database of artistic research, to which anyone can contribute.\n\nPatricia Leavy addresses eight arts-based research (ABR) genres: narrative inquiry, fiction-based research, poetry, music, dance, theatre, film, and visual art.\n\nIn 2016 ELIA (European League of the Institutes of the Arts) launched \"The Florence Principles' on the Doctorate in the Arts\". The Florence Principles relating to the Salzburg Principles and the Salzburg Recommendations of EUA (European University Association) name seven points of attention to specify the Doctorate / PhD in the Arts compared to a scientific doctorate / PhD The Florence Principles have been endorsed and are supported also by AEC, CILECT, CUMULUS and SAR.\n\nResearch is often conducted using the hourglass model structure of research. The hourglass model starts with a broad spectrum for research, focusing in on the required information through the method of the project (like the neck of the hourglass), then expands the research in the form of discussion and results. The major steps in conducting research are:\n\nThe steps generally represent the overall process; however, they should be viewed as an ever-changing iterative process rather than a fixed set of steps. Most research begins with a general statement of the problem, or rather, the purpose for engaging in the study. The literature review identifies flaws or holes in previous research which provides justification for the study. Often, a literature review is conducted in a given subject area before a research question is identified. A gap in the current literature, as identified by a researcher, then engenders a research question. The research question may be parallel to the hypothesis. The hypothesis is the supposition to be tested. The researcher(s) collects data to test the hypothesis. The researcher(s) then analyzes and interprets the data via a variety of statistical methods, engaging in what is known as empirical research. The results of the data analysis in rejecting or failing to reject the null hypothesis are then reported and evaluated. At the end, the researcher may discuss avenues for further research. However, some researchers advocate for the reverse approach: starting with articulating findings and discussion of them, moving \"up\" to identification of a research problem that emerges in the findings and literature review. The reverse approach is justified by the transactional nature of the research endeavor where research inquiry, research questions, research method, relevant research literature, and so on are not fully known until the findings have fully emerged and been interpreted.\n\nRudolph Rummel says, \"... no researcher should accept any one or two tests as definitive. It is only when a range of tests are consistent over many kinds of data, researchers, and methods can one have confidence in the results.\"\n\nPlato in Meno talks about an inherent difficulty, if not a paradox, of doing research that can be paraphrased in the following way, \"If you know what you're searching for, why do you search for it?! [i.e., you have already found it] If you don't know what you're searching for, what are you searching for?!\"\n\nThe goal of the research process is to produce new knowledge or deepen understanding of a topic or issue. This process takes three main forms (although, as previously discussed, the boundaries between them may be obscure):\nThere are two major types of empirical research design: qualitative research and quantitative research. Researchers choose qualitative or quantitative methods according to the nature of the research topic they want to investigate and the research questions they aim to answer:\n\n\nSocial media posts are used for qualitative research.\n\n\nThe quantitative data collection methods rely on random sampling and structured data collection instruments that fit diverse experiences into predetermined response categories. These methods produce results that are easy to summarize, compare, and generalize. Quantitative research is concerned with testing hypotheses derived from theory or being able to estimate the size of a phenomenon of interest.\n\nIf the research question is about people, participants may be randomly assigned to different treatments (this is the only way that a quantitative study can be considered a true experiment). If this is not feasible, the researcher may collect data on participant and situational characteristics to statistically control for their influence on the dependent, or outcome, variable. If the intent is to generalize from the research participants to a larger population, the researcher will employ probability sampling to select participants.\n\nIn either qualitative or quantitative research, the researcher(s) may collect primary or secondary data. Primary data is data collected specifically for the research, such as through interviews or questionnaires. Secondary data is data that already exists, such as census data, which can be re-used for the research. It is good ethical research practice to use secondary data wherever possible.\n\nMixed-method research, i.e. research that includes qualitative and quantitative elements, using both primary and secondary data, is becoming more common. This method has benefits that using one method alone cannot offer. For example, a researcher may choose to conduct a qualitative study and follow it up with a quantitative study to gain additional insights.\n\nBig data has brought big impacts on research methods so that now many researchers do not put much effort into data collection; furthermore, methods to analyze easily available huge amounts of data have also been developed.\n\nNon-empirical (theoretical) research is an approach that involves the development of theory as opposed to using observation and experimentation. As such, non-empirical research seeks solutions to problems using existing knowledge as its source. This, however, does not mean that new ideas and innovations cannot be found within the pool of existing and established knowledge. Non-empirical research is not an absolute alternative to empirical research because they may be used together to strengthen a research approach. Neither one is less effective than the other since they have their particular purpose in science. Typically empirical research produces observations that need to be explained; then theoretical research tries to explain them, and in so doing generates empirically testable hypotheses; these hypotheses are then tested empirically, giving more observations that may need further explanation; and so on. See Scientific method.\n\nA simple example of a non-empirical task is the prototyping of a new drug using a differentiated application of existing knowledge; another is the development of a business process in the form of a flow chart and texts where all the ingredients are from established knowledge. Much of cosmological research is theoretical in nature. Mathematics research does not rely on externally available data; rather, it seeks to prove theorems about mathematical objects.\n\nResearch ethics involves the application of fundamental ethical principles to a variety of topics involving research, including scientific research. These principles include deontology, consequentialism, virtue ethics and value (ethics). Ethical issues may arise in the design and implementation of research involving human experimentation or animal experimentation, such as: various aspects of academic scandal, including scientific misconduct (such as fraud, fabrication of data and plagiarism), whistleblowing; regulation of research, etc. Research ethics is most developed as a concept in medical research. The key agreement here is the 1964 Declaration of Helsinki. The Nuremberg Code is a former agreement, but with many still important notes. Research in the social sciences presents a different set of issues than those in medical research and can involve issues of researcher and participant safety, empowerment and access to justice.\n\nWhen research involves human subjects, obtaining informed consent from them is essential.\n\nIn many disciplines, Western methods of conducting research are predominant. Researchers are overwhelmingly taught Western methods of data collection and study. The increasing participation of indigenous peoples as researchers has brought increased attention to the lacuna in culturally-sensitive methods of data collection. Non-Western methods of data collection may not be the most accurate or relevant for research on non-Western societies. For example, \"Hua Oranga\" was created as a criterion for psychological evaluation in Māori populations, and is based on dimensions of mental health important to the Māori people – \"taha wairua (the spiritual dimension), taha hinengaro (the mental dimension), taha tinana (the physical dimension), and taha whanau (the family dimension)\".\n\nPeriphery scholars face the challenges of exclusion and linguicism in research and academic publication. As the great majority of mainstream academic journals are written in English, multilingual periphery scholars often must translate their work to be accepted to elite Western-dominated journals. Multilingual scholars' influences from their native communicative styles can be assumed to be incompetence instead of difference.\n\nPeer review is a form of self-regulation by qualified members of a profession within the relevant field. Peer review methods are employed to maintain standards of quality, improve performance, and provide credibility. In academia, scholarly peer review is often used to determine an academic paper's suitability for publication. Usually, the peer review process involves experts in the same field who are consulted by editors to give a review of the scholarly works produced by a colleague of theirs from an unbiased and impartial point of view, and this is usually done free of charge. The tradition of peer reviews being done for free has however brought many pitfalls which are also indicative of why most peer reviewers decline many invitations to review. It was observed that publications from periphery countries rarely rise to the same elite status as those of North America and Europe, because limitations on the availability of resources including high-quality paper and sophisticated image-rendering software and printing tools render these publications less able to satisfy standards currently carrying formal or informal authority in the publishing industry. These limitations in turn result in the under-representation of scholars from periphery nations among the set of publications holding prestige status relative to the quantity and quality of those scholars' research efforts, and this under-representation in turn results in disproportionately reduced acceptance of the results of their efforts as contributions to the body of knowledge available worldwide.\n\nThe open access movement assumes that all information generally deemed useful should be free and belongs to a \"public domain\", that of \"humanity\". This idea gained prevalence as a result of Western colonial history and ignores alternative conceptions of knowledge circulation. For instance, most indigenous communities consider that access to certain information proper to the group should be determined by relationships.\n\nThere is alleged to be a double standard in the Western knowledge system. On the one hand, \"digital right management\" used to restrict access to personal information on social networking platforms is celebrated as a protection of privacy, while simultaneously when similar functions are used by cultural groups (i.e. indigenous communities) this is denounced as \"access control\" and reprehended as censorship.\n\nEven though Western dominance seems to be prominent in research, some scholars, such as Simon Marginson, argue for \"the need [for] a plural university world\". Marginson argues that the East Asian Confucian model could take over the Western model.\n\nThis could be due to changes in funding for research both in the East and the West. Focussed on emphasizing educational achievement, East Asian cultures, mainly in China and South Korea, have encouraged the increase of funding for research expansion. In contrast, in the Western academic world, notably in the United Kingdom as well as in some state governments in the United States, funding cuts for university research have occurred, which some say may lead to the future decline of Western dominance in research.\n\nIn several national and private academic systems, the professionalisation of research has resulted in formal job titles.\n\nIn present-day Russia, the former Soviet Union and in some post-Soviet states the term \"researcher\" (, \"nauchny sotrudnik\") is both a generic term for a person who carried out scientific research, as well as a job position within the frameworks of the USSR Academy of Sciences, Soviet universities, and in other research-oriented establishments. The term is also sometimes translated as \"research fellow\", \"research associate\", etc.\n\nThe following ranks are known:\n\n\nAcademic publishing is a system that is necessary for academic scholars to peer review the work and make it available for a wider audience. The system varies widely by field and is also always changing, if often slowly. Most academic work is published in journal article or book form. There is also a large body of research that exists in either a thesis or dissertation form. These forms of research can be found in databases explicitly for theses and dissertations. In publishing, STM publishing is an abbreviation for academic publications in science, technology, and medicine.\nresearch paper guides\nMost established academic fields have their own scientific journals and other outlets for publication, though many academic journals are somewhat interdisciplinary, and publish work from several distinct fields or subfields. The kinds of publications that are accepted as contributions of knowledge or research vary greatly between fields, from the print to the electronic format. A study suggests that researchers should not give great consideration to findings that are not replicated frequently. It has also been suggested that all published studies should be subjected to some measure for assessing the validity or reliability of its procedures to prevent the publication of unproven findings. Business models are different in the electronic environment. Since about the early 1990s, licensing of electronic resources, particularly journals, has been very common. Presently, a major trend, particularly with respect to scholarly journals, is open access. There are two main forms of open access: open access publishing, in which the articles or the whole journal is freely available from the time of publication, and self-archiving, where the author makes a copy of their own work freely available on the web.\n\nMost funding for scientific research comes from three major sources: corporate research and development departments; private foundations, for example, the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation; and government research councils such as the National Institutes of Health in the USA and the Medical Research Council in the UK. These are managed primarily through universities and in some cases through military contractors. Many senior researchers (such as group leaders) spend a significant amount of their time applying for grants for research funds. These grants are necessary not only for researchers to carry out their research but also as a source of merit.\n\nThe Social Psychology Network provides a comprehensive list of U.S. Government and private foundation funding sources.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7479937", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7479937", "title": "Ryomo Kyokai", "text": "Ryomo Kyokai\n\nRyōmō Kyōkai (両忘協会 \"Ryōmō Society\", was a lay Rinzai Zen Buddhist practice center located in Tokyo, Japan.\n\nRyōmō Kyōkai means \"Association for the Abandonment of the Concepts of Objectivity and Subjectivity\". It was founded at the beginning of the Meiji restoration, when Japan started to modernize:\nIt attracted figures such as Imakita Kōsen (1816–1892) (abbot of the Rinzai monastery Engakuji, and teacher of Soyen Shaku), Nakajima Nobuyuki, Kawajiri Hōkin, and Nakae Chomin (1847–1901). Kōsen was its honorary leader but not its founder.\n\nIt served as an intellectual society for the discussion of Buddhism and zazen practice. The rules of the society were as follows:\n\nRyōmō Kyōkai was revived by Tetsuo Sōkatsu, dharma descendant of Soyen Shaku. The revival was more frequently called \"Ryōbō Zen Kyōkai\" or \"Ryōbō Kai\" in Japan, owing to a more modern kanji reading. Tetsuo Sōkatsu received the name \"Ryobo-an\" from Ryoga-kutsu Roshi. He opened Ryōbō Kai for lay practitioners, and went so far as to give dharma transmission to lay practitioners, which before was restricted to priests. \n\nIn 1906 Sōkatsu traveled to the USA with a group of students, among them Sokei-an Sasaki and Gotō Zuigan, who would become two of his dharma heirs. A branch was established on Sutter Street in San Francisco after Sōkatsu arrived in America. It attracted lay Buddhists and possibly inspired the form of Zen practice centers throughout the Western world. Sōkatsu stayed in the USA four years before returning to Japan, leaving only Sokei-an behind. \n\nSokei-an lived most of his adult life in the United States, returning to Japan only briefly on four occasions, principally to complete his Zen training and receive his final dharma transmission from Sōkatsu. In 1930 he established the Buddhist Society of America in New York City, initially as a branch of Ryōmō Kyōkai; this was renamed the First Zen Institute of America after World War II, and continues to this day, in spite of having no resident teacher.\n\nThe Japanese revival was disbanded after World War II, and the San Francisco branch likely was lost during the Japanese American internment.\n\nRyobo-an Roshi gave dharma transmission to Koun-an Tatsuta Eizan Roshi, Ichimu-an Ohazama Chikudo Roshi, Gotō Zuigan Roshi, and Sokei-an Sasaki Shigetsu Roshi. Koun-an Roshi founded \"Ningen Zen\", \"Zen cultivation of the human spirit\". The \"Ningen Zen Kyodan\". Its mission is \"to establish an earthly paradise\". In this, it sees itself as \"essentially different from the traditional Zen Buddhists who aimed principally at Dharma-transmission for the sake of Dharma-transmission\". The \"Ningen Zen Kyodan\" has sixteen groups and sixteen meditation centers, and twelve Zen masters, who received dharma transmission from Koun-an Roshi.\n\n"}
{"id": "25062407", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25062407", "title": "Sajikdan", "text": "Sajikdan\n\nThe Sajikdan is a Korean Neo-Confucian altar located in Seoul, South Korea used to perform the national soil and grain ceremonies during the Joseon Dynasty. \n\nAlong with the royal palace (Gyeongbokgung) and the Jongmyo shrine, the Sajik shrine is a fundamental symbol of the new capital city created during its first year. It is located west of the palace, at the feet of Inwangsan, in the neighborhood of Seochon, and gave its name to the Sajik park that surrounds it, as well as to its administrative neighborhood Sajik-dong.\n\nOn this square altar were honored on key moments of the lunar calendar the national deities of earth (Sa) and grains (Jik). \n\nCertain ceremonies have been recently revived in the square altars, to mirror the rites of Jongmyo jerye, now on the UNESCO's list of Masterpieces of the Oral and Intangible Heritage of Humanity.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43770799", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43770799", "title": "Samuel Colliber", "text": "Samuel Colliber\n\nSamuel Colliber (fl. 1718–1737) was an English writer, a lay author on theological and naval matters. John Knox Laughton suggested he was a Royal Navy volunteer or schoolmaster.\n\nColliber published in 1727 \"Columna Rostrata\", a naval history with significant coverage of the Anglo-Dutch wars of the 17th century. It took account of Dutch and French sources. A second edition was published in 1742. \n\nColliber wrote also a number of religious tracts, including:\n\n\nColliber took up the ideas of Samuel Clarke on the existence of God, and his modifications influenced Edmund Law. Joseph Priestley cited Colliber against Cartesian plenism.\n\nAttribution\n"}
{"id": "58752541", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58752541", "title": "Simone Bignall", "text": "Simone Bignall\n\nSimone Bignall is an Australian philosopher and Senior Lecturer of Philosophy at Flinders University.\nShe is a former Chair of the Australasian Society for Continental Philosophy (2016-2018) and is now its Equity and Diversity Officer.\nBignall is known for her research on Postcolonialism.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56795963", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56795963", "title": "Soumaya Mestiri", "text": "Soumaya Mestiri\n\nSoumaya Mestiri (born 1976) is a Tunisian philosopher.\n\nAfter her studies, she was a lecturer at the University Paris, where she supported a thesis in 2003 entitled \"The Conception of the Person in the Philosophy of John Rawls: Trial of Reconstruction of the Theory of Justice as Equity,\" in front of a jury chaired by Emmanuel Picavet, and also including Catherine Audard and Monique Canto-Sperber. Next, she conducted postdoctoral research at the University of Louvain-la-Neuve and, in 2005, returned to teach in Tunisia. She was a professor at the Faculty of Humanities and Social Sciences in Tunis.\n\nHer thesis was published as a book in 2007 by the House of the Sciences of the Man and was renamed \"From the Individual to the Citizen: Rawls and the Problem of the Person\", followed in 2009 by another book, \"Rawls: Justice and Equity\". She started studying the philosophical texts of the Arab-Muslim tradition, translating and commenting on the medieval Persian philosopher Al-Fârâbî, the philosopher and mathematician Al-Kindi and the writer, theologian and naturalist Al-Jahiz.\n\nStarting in 2009, her research took a new directions, specifically Arab-Muslim themes such as democracy and Islam, Al-Kindi and Ibn Khaldoun and Amartya Sen. She also studies the relationship between feminism, Western society and Islamic society, and also explores the debate in France on burkinis, highlighting French feminist reactions which call burkinis a form of \"overhanging compassion\" vis-à-vis the Muslim woman.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21496026", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21496026", "title": "Sperm donation", "text": "Sperm donation\n\nSperm donation is the provision (or \"donation\") by a man (known as a sperm donor) of his sperm (known as donor sperm), principally for it to be used in the artificial insemination of a woman or women who are not his sexual partners for the purpose of achieving a pregnancy.\n\nSperm may be donated privately and directly to the intended recipient, or through a sperm bank or fertility clinic. Sperm donation enables a man to father a child for third-party women, and is therefore, categorized as a form of third party reproduction. Pregnancies are usually achieved by using donor sperm in assisted reproductive technology (ART) techniques which include artificial insemination (either by intracervical insemination (ICI) or intrauterine insemination (IUI) in a clinic, or intravaginal insemination at home). Less commonly, donor sperm may be used in in vitro fertilization (IVF). The primary recipients of donor sperm are single women, lesbian couples and heterosexual couples suffering from male infertility.\n\nDonor sperm and 'fertility treatments' using donor sperm may be obtained at a sperm bank or fertility clinic. Sperm banks or clinics may be subject to state or professional regulations, including restrictions on donor anonymity and the number of offspring that may be produced, and there may be other legal protections of the rights and responsibilities of both recipient and donor. Some sperm banks, either by choice or regulation, limit the amount of information available to potential recipients; a desire to obtain more information on donors is one reason why recipients may choose to use a known donor or private donation (i.e. a de-identified donor). However conception is achieved, the nature and course of the pregnancy will be the same as one achieved by sexual intercourse, and the male donor will be the biological father of any child born from his donations.\n\nA sperm donor is generally not intended to be the legal or \"de jure\" father of a child produced from his sperm. The law may however, make implications in relation to legal fatherhood or the absence of a father. The law may also govern the fertility process through sperm donation in a fertility clinic. It may make provision as to whether a sperm donor may be anonymous or not, and it might give an adult donor conceived offspring the right to trace his or her biological father. Where sperm is donated by natural insemination, i.e. where the donor has sexual intercourse with the recipient woman, the law in every country will always provide that the male is the father of any child produced, even where the sperm is provided by a third party male who is not the woman's usual sexual partner and where the express intention was to secure a pregnancy.\n\nLaws regulating sperm donation address issues such as permissible reimbursement or payment to sperm donors, rights and responsibilities of the donor towards his biological offspring, the child's right to know his/her father's identity, and procedural issues. Laws vary greatly from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. In general, laws are more likely to disregard the sperm donor's biological link to the child, so that he will neither have child support obligations nor rights to the child. In the absence of specific legal protection, courts may order a sperm donor to pay child support or recognize his parental rights, and will invariably do so where the insemination is carried out by natural, as opposed to artificial means.\n\nLaws in many jurisdictions limit the number of offspring that a sperm donor can give rise to, and who may be a recipient of donor sperm.\n\nThe purpose of sperm donation is to provide pregnancies for women whose male partner is infertile or, more commonly, for women who do not have a male partner. Direct sexual contact between the parties is avoided since the donor's sperm is placed in the woman's body by artificial means (but see Natural Insemination). \n\nSperm donation preserves the sexual integrity of a recipient, but the woman is nevertheless able to benefit from the reproductive capacity of a man to provide her with a pregnancy.\n\nDonor sperm is prepared for use in artificial insemination in intrauterine insemination (IUI) or intra-cervical insemination (ICI). Less commonly, donor sperm is prepared for use in other assisted reproductive techniques such as IVF and intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI). Donor sperm may also be used in surrogacy arrangements either by artificially inseminating the surrogate (known as traditional surrogacy) or by implanting in a surrogate embryos which have been created by using donor sperm together with eggs from a donor or from the 'commissioning female' (known as \"gestational surrogacy\"). Spare embryos from this process may be donated to other women or surrogates. Donor sperm may also be used for producing embryos with donor eggs which are then donated to a female who is not genetically related to the child she produces.\n\nIn medical terms, a pregnancy achieved using donor sperm is no different from a pregnancy achieved through sexual intercourse, and genetically a child produced by sperm donation will be the child of the sperm donor and the woman whose egg was fertilized by his sperm (although not necessarily the birth mother).\n\nProcedures of any kind, e.g., artificial insemination or IVF, using donor sperm to impregnate a female who is not the partner of, nor related to the male who provided the sperm, may be referred to as \"donor treatments\".\n\nA Swedish study concluded that 94% of potential donors would be willing to donate to single women and 85% would be willing to donate to lesbian single women or lesbian couples. A review of two studies found that 50 to 68% of actual donors would donate for lesbian couples, and 40 to 64% would donate to single women.\n\nA sperm donor may donate sperm privately or through a sperm bank, sperm agency, or other brokerage arrangement. Donations from private donors are most commonly carried out using artificial insemination.\n\nGenerally, a male who provides sperm as a sperm donor gives up all legal and other rights over the biological children produced from his sperm. However, in private arrangements, some degree of co-parenting may be agreed, although the enforceability of those agreements varies by jurisdiction.\n\nDonors may or may not be paid, according to local laws and agreed arrangements. Even in unpaid arrangements, expenses are often reimbursed. Depending on local law and on private arrangements, men may donate anonymously or agree to provide identifying information to their offspring in the future. Private donations facilitated by an agency often use a \"directed\" donor, when a male directs that his sperm is to be used by a specific person. Non-anonymous donors are also called \"known donors\", \"open donors\" or \"identity disclosure donors\".\n\nA review of surveys among donors came to the results that the media and advertising are most efficient in attracting donors, and that the internet is becoming increasingly important in this purpose. Recruitment via couples with infertility problems in the social environment of the sperm donor does not seem to be important in recruitment overall.\n\nA sperm donor will usually donate sperm to a sperm bank under a contract, which typically specifies the period during which the donor will be required to produce sperm, which generally ranges from six to 24 months depending on the number of pregnancies which the sperm bank intends to produce from the donor. If a sperm bank has access to world markets e.g. by direct sales, or sales to clinics outside their own jurisdiction, a male may donate for a longer period than two years, as the risk of consanguinity is reduced (although local laws vary widely).\n\nThe contract may also specify the place and hours for donation, a requirement to notify the sperm bank in the case of acquiring a sexual infection, and the requirement not to have intercourse or to masturbate for a period of usually 2–3 days before making a donation.\n\nSperm provided by a sperm bank will be produced by a donor attending at the sperm bank's premises in order to ascertain the donor's identity on every occasion. The donor masturbates to provide an ejaculate or by the use of an electrical stimulator, although a special condom, known as a collection condom, may be used to collect the semen during sexual intercourse. The ejaculate is collected in a small container, which is usually extended with chemicals in order to provide a number of vials, each of which would be used for separate inseminations. The sperm is frozen and quarantined, usually for a period of six months, and the donor is re-tested prior to the sperm being used for artificial insemination.\n\nIn some jurisdictions, sperm may be donated through an agency. The agency may recruit donors, usually via the Internet. Donors may undergo the same kind of checks and tests required by a sperm bank, although clinics and agencies are not necessarily subject to the same regulatory regimes. In the case of an agency, the sperm will be supplied to the recipient female fresh rather than frozen.\n\nA female chooses a donor and notifies the agency when she requires donations. The agency notifies the donor who must supply his sperm on the appropriate days nominated by the recipient. The agency will usually provide the sperm donor with a male collection kit usually including a collection condom and a container for shipping the sperm. This is collected and delivered by courier and the female uses the donor's sperm to inseminate herself, typically without medical supervision. This process preserves anonymity and enables a donor to produce sperm in the privacy of his own home. A donor will generally produce samples once or twice during a recipient's fertile period, but a second sample each time may not have the same fecundity of the first sample because it is produced too soon after the first one. Pregnancy rates by this method vary more than those achieved by sperm banks or fertility clinics. Transit times may vary and these have a significant effect on sperm viability so that if a donor is not located near to a recipient female the sperm may deteriorate. However, the use of fresh, as opposed to frozen, semen will mean that a sample has a greater fecundity and can produce higher pregnancy rates.\n\nSperm agencies may impose limits on the number of pregnancies achieved from each donor, but in practice this is more difficult to achieve than for sperm banks where the whole process may be more regulated. Most sperm donors only donate for a limited period, however, and since sperm supplied by a sperm agency is not processed into a number of different vials, there is a practical limit on the number of pregnancies which are usually produced in this way. A sperm agency will, for the same reason, be less likely than a sperm bank to enable a female to have subsequent children by the same donor.\n\nSperm agencies are largely unregulated and, because the sperm is not quarantined, may carry sexually transmitted diseases. This lack of regulation has led to authorities in some jurisdictions bringing legal action against sperm agencies. Agencies typically insist on STI testing for donors, but such tests cannot detect recent infections. Donors providing sperm in this way may not be protected by laws which apply to donations through a sperm bank or fertility clinic and will, if traced, be regarded as the legal father of each child produced.\n\nCouples or individuals who need insemination by a third-party may seek assistance privately and directly from a friend or family member, or may obtain a \"private\" or \"directed\" donation by advertising or through a broker. A number of web sites seek to link recipients with sperm donors, while advertisements in gay and lesbian publications are common.\n\nRecipients may already know the donor, or if arranged through a broker, the donor may meet the recipients and become known to them. Some brokers facilitate contact that maintains semi-anonymous identities for legal reasons. Where a private or directed donation is used, sperm need not be frozen.\n\nPrivate donations may be free of charge - avoiding the significant costs of a more medicalised insemination - and fresh rather than frozen semen is generally deemed to increase the chances of pregnancy. However, they also carry higher risks associated with unscreened sexual or body fluid contact. Legal treatment of donors varies across jurisdictions, and in most jurisdictions (e.g., Sweden) personal and directed donors lack legal safeguards that may be available to anonymous donors. However, the laws of some countries (e.g. New Zealand) recognize written agreements between donors and recipients in a similar way to donations through a sperm bank.\n\nKits are available, usually on-line, for artificial insemination for private donor use, and these kits generally include a collection pot, a syringe, ovulation tests and pregnancy tests. A vaginal speculum and a soft cup may also be used. STI testing kits are also available but these only produce a 'snap-shot' result and, since sperm will not be frozen and quarantined, there will be risks associated with it.\n\nInsemination through sexual intercourse is known as natural insemination (NI). Where natural insemination is carried out by a person who is not the woman's usual sexual partner, and in circumstances where the express intention is to secure a pregnancy, this may be referred to as 'sperm donation by natural insemination'. \n\nNatural insemination has not been recognised in any state as other than a natural procreation process whereby the sperm donor and biological father is liable for care and support of the child. A woman who becomes pregnant through natural insemination will therefore always have a legal right to claim child support from the donor and the donor has a legal right to the custody of the child. Conceiving through natural insemination is considered a natural process, so the biological father will always be liable for child support and custody rights of the child. The law therefore makes a fine distinction based on the method of conception: the biological relationship between the father and the child and the reason for the pregnancy having been achieved will be the same whether the child was conceived naturally or by artificial means, but the legal position will be different. In some countries and in some situations, sperm donors may be legally liable for any child they produce, but with NI the legal risk of paternity for a donor is always absolute. Natural insemination donors will therefore often donate without revealing their identity.\n\nDespite this, some private sperm donors offer both natural and artificial insemination, or they may offer natural insemination after attempts to achieve conception by artificial insemination have failed. Some women also seek natural insemination for various reasons including the desire by them for a \"natural\" conception.\n\nNatural insemination by a donor usually avoids the need for costly medical procedures that may require the intervention of third parties. It may lack some of the safety precautions and screenings usually built into the artificial insemination process but proponents claim that it produces higher pregnancy rates. A more 'natural' conception does not involve the intervention and intrusion of third parties. However, it has not been medically proved that natural insemination has an increased chance of pregnancy.\n\nNI is generally only carried out at the female's fertile time, as with other methods of insemination, in order to achieve the best chances of a pregnancy.\n\nA variation of NI is PI, or partial intercourse, where penetration by the donor takes place immediately before ejaculation, thus avoiding prolonged physical contact between the parties.\n\nA sperm donor is usually advised not to ejaculate for two to three days before providing the sample, to increase sperm count. A sperm donor produces and collects sperm at a sperm bank or clinic by masturbation or during sexual intercourse with the use of a collection condom.\n\nSperm banks and clinics may \"wash\" the sperm sample to extract sperm from the rest of the material in the semen. Unwashed semen may only be used for ICI (intra-cervical) inseminations, to avoid cramping, or for IVF/ICSI procedures. It may be washed after thawing for use in IUI procedures. A cryoprotectant semen extender is added if the sperm is to be placed in frozen storage in liquid nitrogen, and the sample is then frozen in a number of vials or straws. One sample will be divided into 1–20 vials or straws depending on the quantity of the ejaculate, whether the sample is washed or unwashed, or whether it is being prepared for IVF use. Following analysis of an individual donor's sperm, straws or vials may be prepared which contain differing amounts of motile sperm post-thaw. The number of sperm in a straw prepared for IVF use, for example, will be significantly less than the number of motile sperm in a straw prepared for ICI or IUI and there will therefore be more IVF straws per ejaculate. Following the necessary quarantine period, the samples are thawed and used to inseminate women through artificial insemination or other ART treatments.\n\nSperm banks typically screen potential donors for genetic diseases, chromosomal abnormalities and sexually transmitted infections that may be transmitted through sperm. The screening procedure generally also includes a quarantine period, in which the samples are frozen and stored for at least six months after which the donor will be re-tested for sexually transmitted diseases (STIs). This is to ensure no new infections have been acquired or have developed during the period of donation. Providing the result is negative, the sperm samples can be released from quarantine and used in treatments. Children conceived through sperm donation have a birth defect rate of almost a fifth compared to the general population.\n\nThe number of donor samples (ejaculates) that is required to help give rise to a child varies substantially from donor to donor, as well as from clinic to clinic. However, the following equations generalize the main factors involved:\n\nFor intracervical insemination:\n\nThe pregnancy rate increases with increasing number of motile sperm used, but only up to a certain degree, when other factors become limiting instead.\n\nWith these numbers, one sample would on average help giving rise to 0.1–0.6 children, that is, it actually takes on average 2–5 samples to make a child.\n\nFor intrauterine insemination, a \"centrifugation fraction\" (\"f\") may be added to the equation:\n\nOnly 5 million motile sperm may be needed per cycle with IUI (\"n\"=5 million)\n\nThus, only 1–3 samples may be needed for a child if used for IUI.\n\nUsing ART treatments such as IVF can result in one donor sample (or ejaculate) producing on average considerably more than one birth. However, the actual number of births per sample will depend on the actual ART method used, the age and medical condition of the female bearing the child, and the quality of the embryos produced by fertilization. Donor sperm is less commonly used for IVF treatments than for artificial insemination. This is because IVF treatments are usually required only when there is a problem with the female conceiving, or where there is a 'male factor problem' involving the female's partner. Donor sperm is also used for IVF in surrogacy arrangements where an embryo may be created in an IVF procedure using donor sperm and this is then implanted in a surrogate. In a case where IVF treatments are employed using donor sperm, surplus embryos may be donated to other women or couples and used in embryo transfer procedures. When donor sperm is used for IVF treatments, there is a risk that large numbers of children will be born from a single donor since a single ejaculate may produce up to 20 straws for IVF use. A single straw can fertilise a number of eggs and these can have a 40% to 50% pregnancy rate. 'Spare' embryos from donor treatments are frequently donated to other women or couples. Many sperm banks therefore limit the amount of semen from each donor which is prepared for IVF use, or they may restrict the period of time for which such a donor donates his sperm to perhaps as little as three months (about nine or ten ejaculates).\n\nIn the US, sperm banks maintain lists or catalogues of donors which provide basic information such as racial origin, skin color, height, weight, color of eyes, and blood group. Some of these catalogues are available via the Internet, while others are only made available to patients when they apply for treatment. Some sperm banks make additional information about each donor available for an additional fee, and others make additional basic information known to children produced from donors when those children reach the age of eighteen. Some clinics offer \"exclusive donors\" whose sperm is only used to produce pregnancies for one recipient female. How accurate this is, or can be, is not known, and neither is it known whether the information produced by sperm banks, or by the donors themselves, is true. Many sperm banks will, however, carry out checks to verify the information requested, such as checking the identity of the donor and contacting his own doctor to verify medical details. Simply because such information is not verifiable does not imply that it is in any way inaccurate, and a sperm bank will rely upon its reputation which, in turn, will be based upon its success rate and upon the accuracy of the information about its donors which it makes available.\n\nIn the UK, most donors are anonymous at the point of donation and recipients can only see non-identifying information about their donor (height, weight, ethnicity, etc.). Donors need to provide identifying information to the clinic and clinics will usually ask the donor's GP to confirm any medical details they have been given. Donors are asked to provide a pen portrait of themselves which is held by the HFEA and can be obtained by the adult conceived from the donation at the age of 16, along with identifying information such as the donor's name and last known address at 18. Known donation is permitted and it is not uncommon for family or friends to donate to a recipient couple.\n\nQualities that potential recipients typically prefer in donors include the donors being tall, college educated, and with a consistently high sperm count. A review came to the result that 68% of donors had given information to the clinical staff regarding physical characteristics and education but only 16% had provided additional information such as hereditary aptitudes and temperament or character.\n\nSexually active gay men are prohibited or discouraged from donating in some countries, including the US. Sperm banks also screen out some potential donors based on height, baldness, and family medical history.\n\nWhere a donor donates sperm through a sperm bank, the sperm bank will generally undertake a number of checks to ensure that the donor produces sperm of sufficient quantity and quality and that the donor is healthy and will not pass diseases through the use of his sperm. The donor's sperm must also withstand the freezing and thawing process necessary to store and quarantine the sperm. The cost to the sperm bank for such tests is considerable, which normally means that clinics may use the same donor to produce a number of pregnancies in multiple women.\n\nThe number of children permitted from a single donor varies by law and practice. These laws are designed to protect the children produced by sperm donation as well as the donor's natural children from consanguinity in later life: they are not intended to protect the donor himself and those donating sperm will be aware that their donations may give rise to numerous pregnancies in different jurisdictions. Such laws, where they exist, vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, and a sperm bank may also impose its own limits. The latter will be based on the reports of pregnancies which the sperm bank receives, although this relies upon the accuracy of the returns and the actual number of pregnancies may therefore be somewhat higher. Nevertheless, sperm banks frequently impose a lower limit on geographical numbers than some jurisdictions and may also limit the overall number of pregnancies permitted from a single donor. The limitation on the number of children which a donor's sperm may give rise to is usually expressed in terms of 'families', on the expectation that children within the family are prohibited from sexual relations under incest laws. In effect, the term \"family\" means a \"woman\" and usually includes the donor's partner or ex-partner, so that multiple donations to the same woman are not counted in the limit. The limits usually apply within one jurisdiction, so that donor sperm may be used in other jurisdictions. There is no limit on the number of donations that can be made to the same woman.\n\nThere is no limit to the number of offspring which may be produced from private donors.\n\nDespite laws limiting the number of offspring, some donors may produce substantial numbers of children, particularly where they donate through different clinics, where sperm is onsold or is exported to different jurisdictions, and where countries or jurisdictions do not have a central register of donors.\n\nSperm agencies, in contrast to sperm banks, rarely impose or enforce limits on the number of children which may be produced by a single donor partly because they are not empowered to demand a report of a pregnancy from recipients and are rarely, if ever, able to guarantee that a female may have a subsequent sibling by the donor who was the biological father of her first or earlier children.\n\nIn the media, there have been reports of some donors producing anywhere from over 40 offspring to several hundred or more. \n\nWhere a female wishes to conceive additional children by sperm donation, she will often wish to use the same donor. The advantage of having subsequent children by the same donor is that these will be full biological siblings, having the same biological father and mother. Many sperm banks offer a service of storing sperm for future pregnancies, but few will otherwise guarantee that sperm from the original donor will be available.\n\nSperm banks rarely impose limits on the numbers of second or subsequent siblings. Even where there are limits on the use of sperm by a particular donor to a defined number of families (as in the UK) the actual number of children produced from each donor will often be far greater.\n\nSince 2000, donor conceived people have been locating their biological siblings and even their donor through web services such as the Donor Sibling Registry as well as DNA testing services such as Ancestry.com and 23andMe. By using these services, donors can find offspring despite the fact that they may have donated anonymously. \n\nThe majority of donors who donate through a sperm bank receive some form of payment, although this is rarely a significant amount. A review including 29 studies from 9 countries found that the amount of money donors received varied from $10 to €70 per donation or sample. The payments vary from the situation in the United Kingdom where donors are only entitled to their expenses, to the situation with some US sperm banks where a donor receives a set fee for each donation plus an additional amount for each vial stored. At one prominent California sperm bank for example, TSBC, donors receive roughly $50 for each donation which has acceptable motility/survival rates both at donation and at a test-thaw a couple of days later. Because of the requirement for the two-day abstinence period before donation, and geographical factors which usually require the donor to travel, it is not a viable way to earn a significant income. Some private donors may seek remuneration although others donate for altruistic reasons. According to the EU Tissue Directive donors in EU may only receive compensation, which is strictly limited to making good the expenses and inconveniences related to the donation. A survey among sperm donors in Cryos International Sperm bank showed that altruistic as well as financial motives were the main factors for becoming a donor. However, when the compensation was increased 100% in 2004 (to DKK 500) it did not significantly affect the numbers of new donor candidates coming in or the frequency of donations from the existing donors. When the compensation was reduced to the previous level (DKK 250) again one year later in 2005 there was no effect either. This led to the assumption that altruism is the main motive and that financial compensation is secondary.\n\nEquipment to collect, freeze and store sperm is available to the public notably through certain US outlets, and some donors process and store their own sperm which they then sell via the Internet.\n\nThe selling price of processed and stored sperm is considerably more than the sums received by donors. Treatments with donor sperm are generally expensive and are seldom available free of charge through national health services. Sperm banks often package treatments into e.g. three cycles, and in cases of IVF or other ART treatments, they may reduce the charge if a patient donates any spare embryos which are produced through the treatment. There is often more demand for fertility treatment with donor sperm than there is donor sperm available, and this has the effect of keeping the cost of such treatments reasonably high.\n\nThere is a market for vials of processed sperm and for various reasons a sperm bank may sell-on stocks of vials which it holds (known as 'onselling'). Onselling enables a sperm bank to maximize the sale and disposal of sperm samples which it has processed. The reasons for onselling may be where part of, or even the main business of, a particular sperm bank is to process and store sperm rather than to use it in fertility treatments, or where a sperm bank is able to collect and store more sperm than it can use within nationally set limits. In the latter case, a sperm bank may sell on sperm from a particular donor for use in another jurisdiction after the number of pregnancies achieved from that donor has reached its national maximum.\n\nMany donees do not inform the child that they were conceived through sperm donation, or, when non-anonymous donor sperm has been used, they do not tell the child until they are old enough for the clinic to provide contact information about the donor. Some believe that it is a human right for a person to know who their biological mother and father are, and thus it should be illegal to conceal this information in any way and at any time. For donor conceived children who find out after a long period of secrecy, their main grief is usually not the fact that they are not the genetic child of the couple who have raised them, but the fact that the parent or parents have kept information from or lied to them, causing loss of trust.\n\nThere are certain circumstances where the child very likely should be told:\n\nThe parents' decision-making process of telling the child is influenced by many intrapersonal factors (such as personal confidence), interpersonal factors, as well as social and family life cycle factors. For example, health care staff and support groups have been demonstrated to influence the decision to disclose the procedure. The appropriate age of the child at disclosure is most commonly given at between 7 and 11 years.\n\nSingle mothers and lesbian couples are more likely to disclose from a young age. Donor conceived children in heterosexual coupled families are more likely to find out about their disclosure from a third party.\n\nHaving contact and meeting among families sharing the same donor generally has positive effects. It gives the child an extended family and helps give the child a sense of identity by answering questions about the donor. It is more common among \"open identity\"-families headed by single men/women. Less than 1% of those seeking donor-siblings find it a negative experience, and in such cases it is mostly where the parents have disagreed with each other about how the relationship should proceed.\n\nParents of donors, who are the grandparents of donor offspring and may therefore be the oldest surviving progenitors, may regard the donated genetic contribution as a family asset, and may regard the donor conceived people as their grandchildren.\n\nA review came to the result that a minority of actual donors involved their partner in the decision-making process of becoming a donor. In one study, 25% of donors felt they needed permission from their partner. In another study, however, 37% of donors with a partner did not approve of a consent form for partners and rather felt that donors should make their own decisions. In a Swedish study, donors reported either enthusiastic or neutral responses from their partners concerning sperm donation.\n\nIt is considered common for donors to not tell their spouses that they are or have been sperm donors. \n\nStudies have indicated that donor insemination mothers show greater emotional involvement with their child, and they enjoy motherhood more than mothers by natural conception and adoption. Compared to mothers by natural conception, donor insemination mothers tend to show higher levels of disciplinary aggression.\n\nStudies have indicated that donor insemination fathers express more warmth and emotional involvement than fathers by natural conception and adoption, enjoy fatherhood more, and are less involved in disciplining their adolescent. Some donor insemination parents become overly involved with their children.\n\nAdolescents born through sperm donation to lesbian mothers have reported themselves to be academically successful, with active friendship networks, strong family bonds, and overall high ratings of well-being. It is estimated that over 80% of adolescents feel they can confide in their mothers, and almost all regard their mothers to be good role models.\n\nA systematic review came to the result that altruism and financial compensation are the main motivations to donate, and to a lesser degree procreation or genetic fatherhood and questions about the donor's own fertility. Financial compensation is generally more prevalent than altruism as a motivation among donors in countries where the compensation is large, which is largely explained by a larger number of economically driven people becoming donors in such countries. Among men who do not donate, the main reason thereof has been stated to be a lack of motivation rather than concerns about the donation.\n\nReluctance to donate may be caused by a sense of ownership and responsibility for the well-being of the offspring.\n\nIn the UK, the National Gamete Donation Trust is a charity which provides information, advice and support for people wishing to become egg, sperm or embryo donors. The Trust runs a national helpline and online discussion list for donors to talk to each other.\n\nIn one Danish study, 40% of donors felt happy thinking about possible offspring, but 40% of donors sometimes worried about the future of resulting offspring.\n\nA review came to the result that one in three actual donors would like counselling to address certain implications of their donation, expecting that counselling could help them to give their decision some thought and to look at all the involved parties in the donation.\n\nA systematic review in 2012 came to the conclusion that the psychosocial needs and experiences of the donors, and their follow-up and counselling are largely neglected in studies on sperm donation.\n\nAnonymous sperm donation occurs under the condition that recipients and offspring will never learn the identity of the donor. A non-anonymous donor, however, will disclose his identity to recipients. A donor who makes a non-anonymous sperm donation is termed a \"known donor\", an \"open identity donor\", or an \"identity release donor\".\n\nNon-anonymous sperm donors are, to a substantially higher degree, driven by altruistic motives for their donations.\n\nEven in the case of anonymous donation, some information about the donor may be released to recipients at the time of treatment. \"Limited donor information\" includes height, weight, eye, skin and hair colour. In Sweden, this is the extent of disclosed information. In the US, however, additional information may be given, such as a comprehensive biography and sound/video samples.\n\nSeveral jurisdictions (e.g., Sweden, Norway, the Netherlands, Britain, Switzerland, Australia and New Zealand, and others) only allow non-anonymous sperm donation. This is generally based on the principle that a child has a right to know his or her biological origins. In 2013, a German court precedent was set based on a case brought by a 21-year-old woman. Generally, these jurisdictions require sperm banks to keep up-to-date records and to release identifying information about the donor to his offspring after they reach a certain age (15–18). See Sperm donation laws by country.\n\nFor most sperm recipients, anonymity of the donor is not of major importance at the obtainment or tryer-stage. Anonymous sperm is often less expensive. Another reason that recipients choose anonymous donors is concern about the role that the donor or the child may want the donor to play in the child's life. Sperm recipients may prefer a non-anonymous donor if they anticipate disclosing donor conception to their child and anticipate the child's desire to seek more information about their donor in the future. A Dutch study found that lesbian couples are significantly more likely (98%) to choose non-anonymous donors than heterosexual couples (63%). Of the heterosexual couples that opted for anonymous donation, 83% intended never to inform their child of their conception via sperm donation.\n\nFor children conceived by an anonymous donor, the impossibility of contacting a biological father or the inability to find information about him can potentially be psychologically burdensome. One study estimated that approximately 67% of adolescent donor conceived children with an identity-release donor plan to contact him when they turn 18.\n\nAmong donors, a systematic review of 29 studies from nine countries concluded that 20–50% of donors would still be willing to donate even if anonymity could not be guaranteed. Between 40 and 97% of donors agree to release non-identifying information such as physical characteristics and level of education. The proportion of actual donors wishing for contact with their offspring varies between 10 and 88%. Most donors are not open to contact with offspring, although more open attitudes are observed among single and homosexual donors. About half of donors feel that degree of involvement should be decided by the intended parents. Some of the donors prefer contact with offspring in a non-visible way, such as where the child can ask questions but the donor will not reveal his identity. One study recruited donors through the Donor Sibling Registry who wanted contact with offspring or who had already made contact with offspring. It resulted that none of the donors said that there was \"no relationship\", a third of donors felt it was a special relationship, almost like a very good friend, and a quarter felt it was merely a genetic bond and nothing more. Fifteen percent of actual donors considered offspring to be \"their own children\". On the whole, donors feel that the first step towards contact should come from offspring rather than parents or the donor himself. Some even say that it is the moral responsibility of the donor not to seek contact with offspring.\n\nThe same review indicated that up to 37% of donors reported changes in their attitude towards anonymity before and after donation, with one in four being prepared to be more open about themselves after the donation than before (as a \"potential donor\"). Among potential donors, 30–46% of potential donors would still be willing to donate even if anonymity could not be guaranteed. Still, more than 75% of these potential donors felt positive towards releasing non-identifying information to offspring, such as physical characteristics and level of education. Single or homosexual men are significantly more inclined to release their identity than married, heterosexual men. Potential donors with children are less inclined to want to meet offspring than potential donors without children (9 versus 30% in the review). Potential donors in a relationship are less inclined to consider contact with offspring than single potential donors (7 versus 28% in the review). From US data, 20% would actively want to know and meet offspring and 40% would not object if the child wished to meet but would not solicit a meeting themselves. From Swedish data, where only non-anonymous donation is permitted in clinics, 87% of potential donors had a positive attitude towards future contact with offspring, although 80% of these potential donors did not feel that the donor had any moral responsibilities for the child later in life. Also from UK data, 80% of potential donors did not feel responsible for whatever happened with their sperm after the donation. With variation between different studies, between 33% and 94% of potential donors want to know at least whether or not the donation resulted in offspring. Some of these potential donors merely wanted to know if a pregnancy had been achieved but did not want to know any specific information about the offspring (e.g. sex, date of birth). Other potential donors felt that knowing the outcome of the donation made the experience more meaningful. In comparison, a German study came to the result that 11% of donors actually asked about the outcome in the clinic where they donated.\n\nAn Australian study concluded that potential donors who would still be willing to donate without a guarantee of anonymity were not automatically more open to extended or intimate contact with offspring.\n\nEven when donors choose to be anonymous, offspring may still find ways to learn more about their biological origins. Registries and DNA databases have been developed for this purpose. Registries that help donor-conceived offspring identify half-siblings from other mothers also help avoid accidental incest in adulthood.\n\nOffspring of anonymous donors may often have the ability to obtain their biological father's donor number from the fertility clinic or sperm bank used for their birth. They may then share their number on a registry. By finding shared donor numbers, offspring may find their genetic half-siblings. The donor may also find his number on a registry and choose to make contact with his offspring or otherwise reveal his identity.\n\nEven sperm donors who have chosen anonymity and not to contact their offspring through a registry are now increasingly being traced by their children. Improved DNA technology has brought into question the possibility of assuring a donor's anonymity. For example, at least one child found his biological father using his own DNA test and internet research, and was able to identify and contact his anonymous donor.\n\nDifferent factors motivate individuals to seek sperm from outside their home state. For example, some jurisdictions do not allow unmarried women to receive donor sperm. Jurisdictional regulatory choices as well as cultural factors that discourage sperm donation have also led to international fertility tourism and sperm markets.\n\nWhen Sweden banned anonymous sperm donation in 1980, the number of active sperm donors dropped from approximately 200 to 30. Sweden now has an 18-month waiting list for donor sperm. At least 250 Swedish sperm recipients travel to Denmark annually for insemination. Some of this is also due to the fact that Denmark also allows single women to be inseminated.\n\nAfter the United Kingdom ended anonymous sperm donation in 2005, the numbers of sperm donors went up, reversing a three-year decline. However, there is still a shortage, and some doctors have suggested raising the limit of children per donor. Some UK clinics import sperm from Scandinavia.\n\nDespite the shortage, sperm exports from the UK are legal and donors may remain anonymous in this context. However, the HFEA does impose safeguards on the export of sperm, such as that it must be exported to fertility clinics only and that the result of any treatment must be traceable. Sperm banks impose their own limits on the number of pregnancies obtained from exported sperm.\n\nSince 2009, the import of sperm via registered clinics for use in the UK has been authorised by the HFEA. The sperm must have been processed, stored and quarantined in compliance with UK regulations. The donors have agreed to be identified when the children produced with their sperm reach the age of eighteen. The number of children produced from such donors in the UK will, of course, be subject to HFEA rules (i.e. currently a limit of ten families,) but the donors' sperm may be used worldwide in accordance with the clinic's own limit of one child per 200.000 of population, subject to national or local limits which apply. By 2014 the UK was importing nearly 40% of its sperm requirements, up from 10% in 2005. In 2018 it was reported that almost half of the imported sperm into Britain came from Denmark (3,000 units).\n\nKorean Bioethics Law prohibits selling and buying of sperm between clinics, and each donor may only help giving rise to a child to one single couple. It suffers from a shortage.\n\nCanada prohibits payment for gamete donation beyond the reimbursement of expenses. Many Canadians import purchased sperm from the United States.\n\nThe United States, which permits monetary compensation for sperm donors, has had an increase in sperm donors during the late 2000s recession\n\nThe use of sperm donation is most common among single women and lesbians. Some sperm banks and fertility clinics, particularly in the US, Denmark and the UK, have a predominance of women being treated with donor sperm who come within these groups. This produces many ethical issues around the ideals of conventional parenting and has wider issues for society as a whole, including the issues of the role of men as parents, family support for children, and financial support for women with children.\n\nThe growth of sperm banks and fertility clinics, the use of sperm agencies and the availability of anonymous donor sperm have served to make sperm donation a more respectable, and therefore a more socially acceptable, procedure. The intervention of doctors and others may be seen as making the whole process a respectable and merely a medical procedure which raises no moral issues, where donor inseminations may be referred to as 'treatments' and donor children as 'resulting from the use of a donor's sperm', or 'born following donation' and subsequent children may be described as 'born using the same donor' rather than as biological children of the same male.\n\nA 2009 study has indicated that both men and women view the use of donor sperm with more skepticism compared with the use of donor eggs, suggesting a unique underlying perception regarding the use of male donor gametes.\n\nAs acceptance of sperm donation has generally increased, so has the level of questioning as to whether 'artificial' means of conception are necessary, and some donor children too, have been critical of the procedures which were taken to bring them into the world. Against this background has been the increase in the use of NI as a method of sperm donation. However, while some donors may be willing to offer this as a method of impregnation, it has many critics and it also raises further legal and social challenges.\n\nSome donor children grow up wishing to find out who their fathers were, but others may be wary of embarking on such a search since they fear they may find scores of half-siblings who have been produced from the same sperm donor. Even though local laws or rules may restrict the numbers of offspring from a single donor, there are no worldwide limitations or controls and most sperm banks will onsell and export all their remaining stocks of vials of sperm when local maxima have been attained (see 'onselling' above).\n\nOne item of research has suggested that donor children have a greater likelihood of substance abuse, mental illness and criminal behavior when grown. However, its motivation and credibility have been questioned.\n\nComing forward publicly with problems is difficult for donor-conceived people as these issues are very personal and a public statement may attract criticism. Additionally, it may upset their parents if they speak out. A website called Anonymous Us has been set up where they can post details of their experiences anonymously, on which there are many accounts of problems.\n\nThere are a wide range of religious responses to sperm donation, with some religious thinkers entirely in support of the use of donor sperm for pregnancy, some who support its use under certain conditions, and some entirely against.\n\nCatholicism officially opposes both the donation of sperm and the use of donor sperm on the basis that it compromises the sexual unity of the marital relationship and the idea \"that the procreation of a human person be brought about as the fruit of the conjugal act specific to the love between spouses.\"\n\nJewish thinkers hold a broad range of positions on sperm donation. Some Jewish communities are totally against sperm donation from donors that are not the husbands of the recipient, while others have approved the use of donor insemination in some form, while liberal communities accept it entirely.\n\nThe Southern Baptist Convention holds that sperm donation from a third party violates the marital bond.\n\nIn 1884, Professor William Pancoast of Philadelphia's Jefferson Medical College performed an insemination on the wife of a sterile Quaker merchant, which may be the first insemination procedure that resulted in the birth of a child. Instead of taking the sperm from the husband, the professor chloroformed the woman, then let his medical students vote which one of among them was \"best looking\", with that elected one providing the sperm that was then syringed into her cervix. At the husband's request, his wife was never told how she became pregnant. As a result of this experiment, the merchant's wife gave birth to a son, who became the first known child by donor insemination. The case was not revealed until 1909, when a letter by Addison Davis Hard appeared in the American journal \"Medical World\", highlighting the procedure.\n\nSince then, a few doctors began to perform private donor insemination. Such procedures were regarded as intensely private, if not secret, by the parties involved. Records were usually not maintained so that donors could not be identified for paternity proceedings. Technology permitted the use of fresh sperm only, and it is thought that sperm largely came from the doctors and their male staff, although occasionally they would engage private donors who were able to donate on short notice on a regular basis.\n\nIn 1945, Mary Barton and others published an article in the British Medical Journal on sperm donation. Barton, a gynecologist, founded a clinic in London which offered artificial insemination using donor sperm for women whose husbands were infertile. This clinic helped conceive 1,500 babies of which Mary Barton's husband, Bertold Weisner, probably fathered about 600.\n\nThe first successful human pregnancy using frozen sperm was in 1953.\n\n\"Donor insemination remained virtually unknown to the public until 1954\". In that year the first comprehensive account of the process was published in The British Medical Journal.\n\nDonor insemination provoked heated public debate. In the United Kingdom, the Archbishop of Canterbury established the first in a long procession of commissions that, over the years, inquired into the practice. It was at first condemned by the Lambeth Conference, which recommended that it be made a criminal offence. A Parliamentary Commission agreed. In Italy, the Pope declared donor insemination a sin, and proposed that anyone using the procedure be sent to prison.\n\nSperm donation gained popularity in the 1980s and 1990s.\n\nIn many western countries, sperm donation is now a largely accepted procedure. In the US and elsewhere, there are a large number of sperm banks. A sperm bank in the US pioneered the use of on-line search catalogues for donor sperm, and these facilities are now widely available on the websites of sperm banks and fertility clinics.\n\nRecent years have also seen sperm donation become relatively less popular among heterosexual couples, who now have access to more sophisticated fertility treatments, and more popular among single women and lesbian couples - whose access to the procedure is relatively new and still prohibited in some jurisdictions.\n\nIn 1954, the Superior Court of Cook County, Illinois granted a husband a divorce because, regardless of the husband's consent, the woman's donor insemination constituted adultery, and that donor insemination was \"contrary to public policy and good morals, and considered adultery on the mother's part.\" The ruling went on to say that, \"A child so conceived, was born out of wedlock and therefore illegitimate. As such, it is the child of the mother, and the father has no rights or interest in said child.\"\n\nHowever, the following year, Georgia became the first state to pass a statute legitimizing children conceived by donor insemination, on the condition that both the husband and wife consented in advance in writing to the procedure.\n\nIn 1973, the Commissioners on Uniform State Laws, and a year later, the American Bar Association, approved the Uniform Parentage Act. This act provides that if a wife is artificially inseminated with donor semen under a physician's supervision, and with her husband's consent, the husband is legally considered the natural father of the donor inseminated child. That law was followed by similar legislation in many states.\n\nThe first commercial sperm bank in the United States opened in Roseville, Minnesota in 1971.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, the Warnock Committee was formed in July 1982 to consider issues of sperm donation and assisted reproduction techniques. Donor insemination was already available in the UK through unregulated clinics such as BPAS. Many of these clinics had started to offer sperm donation before the widespread use of freezing techniques. 'Fresh sperm' was donated to order by donors at the fertile times of patients requiring treatments. Commonly, infertility of a male partner or sterilisation was a reason for treatment. Donations were anonymous and unregulated.\n\nThe Warnock Committee's report was published on July 18, 1984. and led to the passing of the Human Fertilisation and Embryology Act 1990. That act provided for a system of licensing for fertility clinics and procedures. It also provided that, where a male donates sperm at a licensed clinic in the UK and his sperm is used at a UK clinic to impregnate a female, the male is not legally responsible for the resulting child.\n\nThe 1990 Act also established a UK central register of donors and donor births to be maintained by the Human Fertilisation and Embryology Authority (the 'HFEA'), a supervisory body established by the Act. Following the Act, for any act of sperm donation through a licensed UK clinic that results in a living child, information on the child and the donor must be recorded on the register. This measure was intended to reduce the risk of consanguinity as well as to enforce the limit on the number of births permitted by each donor. The natural child of any donor has access to non-identifying information about their donor, starting at the child's eighteenth birthday.\n\nThe emphasis of the 1990 Act was on protecting the unborn child. However, a general shortage of donor sperm at the end of the 20th century, exacerbated by the announcement of the removal of anonymity in the UK, led to concerns about the excessive use of the sperm of some donors. These concerns centered on the export and exchange of donor sperm with overseas clinics, and also the interpretation of the term 'sibling use' to include donated embryos produced from one sperm donor, and successive births by surrogates using eggs from different women but sperm from the same sperm donor. Donors were informed that up to ten births could be produced from their sperm, but the words 'other than in exceptional circumstances' in the consent form could potentially lead to many more pregnancies. These concerns led to the SEED Report commissioned by the HFEA, which was in turn followed by new legislation and rules meant to protect the interests of donors: When a male donates his sperm through a UK clinic, that sperm is not permitted to give rise to more than ten families total, anywhere in the world.\n\nOn the global market, Denmark has a well-developed system of sperm export. This success mainly comes from the reputation of Danish sperm donors for being of high quality and, in contrast with the law in the other Nordic countries, gives donors the choice of being either anonymous or non-anonymous to the receiving couple. Furthermore, Nordic sperm donors tend to be tall, with rarer features like blond hair or different color eyes and a light complexion, and highly educated and have altruistic motives for their donations, partly due to the relatively low monetary compensation in Nordic countries. More than 50 countries worldwide are importers of Danish sperm, including Paraguay, Canada, Kenya, and Hong Kong. Several UK clinics also export donor sperm, but they must take steps to ensure that the maximum number of ten families produced from each donor is not exceeded. The use of the sperm outside the UK will also be subject to local rules. Within the EU there are now regulations governing the transfer of human tissue including sperm between member states to ensure that these take place between registered sperm banks. However, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) of the US has banned import of any sperm, motivated by a risk of mad cow disease, although such a risk is insignificant, since artificial insemination is very different from the route of transmission of mad cow disease. The prevalence of mad cow disease is one in a million, probably less for donors. If prevalence was the case, the infectious proteins would then have to cross the blood-testis barrier to make transmission possible. Transmission of the disease by an insemination is approximately equal to the risk of getting killed by lightning.\n\nMovie plots involving artificial insemination by donor are seen in \"Made in America\", \"Road Trip\", \"The Back-Up Plan\", \"The Kids Are All Right\", \"The Switch\", \"Starbuck\", and \"Baby Mama\", the latter also involving surrogacy.\n\nFilms and other fiction depicting emotional struggles of assisted reproductive technology have had an upswing first in the latter part of the 2000s (decade), although the techniques have been available for decades. Yet, the number of people that can relate to it by personal experience in one way or another is ever growing, and the variety of trials and struggles is huge.\n\nA 2012 Bollywood comedy movie, \"Vicky Donor\", was based on sperm donation. The film release saw an effect; the number of men donating sperm increased in India.\n\nA 2017 Kollywood movie Kutram 23 is also a movie based on sperm donation.\n\n"}
{"id": "4293331", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4293331", "title": "Steven L. Goldman", "text": "Steven L. Goldman\n\nSteven Louis Goldman (born 1941) is the Andrew W. Mellon Distinguished Professor in the Humanities at Lehigh University.\n\nGoldman studied as an undergraduate at Polytechnic University of New York, earning a Bachelor of Science degree in Physics. He then attended Boston University, where he received Master of Arts and PhD degrees in Philosophy.\n\nIn the 1970s, Goldman was on faculty in the philosophy department at the State College campus of Pennsylvania State University. At Pennsylvania State, he was involved in the development of one of the first U.S. academic programs in science, technology, and society studies (STS). In 1977, Goldman joined the faculty at Lehigh University, as Andrew W. Mellon Distinguished Professor in the Humanities. From 1977-1988 he was the director of the STS program at Lehigh.\n\nGoldman helped found the Lehigh University Press, and is a recipient of the Lindback Distinguished Teaching Award from Lehigh. He is a co-founder of the National Association of Science, Technology, and Society Studies, and has served as a national program consultant for the National Endowment for the Humanities.\n\nGoldman is the author/editor of eight books.\n\nSteven Goldman has degrees in physics (B.Sc., Polytechnic University of New York) and philosophy\n(M.A., Ph.D., Boston University) and, since 1977, has been the Andrew W. Mellon Distinguished\nProfessor in the Humanities at Lehigh University. \nHe has a joint appointment in the departments of philosophy and history because his teaching and research focus on the history, philosophy, and social relations of modern science and technology. Professor Goldman came to Lehigh from the philosophy department at the State College campus of Pennsylvania State University, where he was a co-founder of\none of the first U.S. academic programs in science, technology, and society (STS) studies. For 11 years (1977–1988), he served as director of Lehigh’s STS program and was a co-founder of the National Association of Science, Technology and Society Studies. Professor Goldman has received the Lindback Distinguished Teaching Award from Lehigh University and a Book-of-the-Year Award for a book he coauthored (another book was a finalist and translated into 10 languages). He has been a national lecturer for Sigma Xi—the scientific research society—and a national program consultant for the National Endowment for the Humanities. He has served as a board member or as editor/advisory editor for a number of professional organizations and journals and was a co-founder of Lehigh University Press and, for many years, co-editor of its Research in Technology Studies series.\n\nSince the early 1960s, Professor Goldman has studied the historical development of the conceptual framework of modern science in relation to its Western cultural context, tracing its emergence from medieval and Renaissance approaches to the study of nature through its transformation in the 20th century.\n\nHe has published numerous scholarly articles on his social-historical approach to medieval and Renaissance nature philosophy and to modern science from the 17th to the 20th centuries and has lectured on these subjects at conferences and universities across the United States, in Europe, and in Asia. In the late 1970s, the professor began a similar social-historical study of technology and technological innovation since the Industrial Revolution. In the 1980s, he published a series of articles on innovation as a socially driven process and on the role played in that process by the knowledge created by scientists and\nengineers. These articles led to participation in science and technology policy initiatives of the federal government, which in turn led to extensive research and numerous article and book publications through the 1990s on emerging synergies that were transforming relationships among knowledge, innovation, and global commerce.\n\nGoldman is the author of the following courses for The Teaching Company: \n"}
{"id": "3782219", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3782219", "title": "Sydney Sparkes Orr", "text": "Sydney Sparkes Orr\n\nSydney Sparkes Orr was Professor of Philosophy at the University of Tasmania and the centre of the \"Orr case\", a celebrated academic scandal of the 1950s.\n\nBorn in Belfast in 1914, Orr achieved a first-class-honours BA in Philosophy and received an MA with special commendation at Queen's University before commencing his teaching career at the University of St Andrews and the University of Melbourne. In 1952 he was appointed to the chair of philosophy at the University of Tasmania, after falsifying his academic record in his application. In 1955 the University dismissed him for sexual relations with an undergraduate student. He denied the accusation but his appeals to the Tasmanian Supreme Court and the High Court of Australia were unsuccessful. Many academics believed Orr had been denied due process and his position was declared \"black\". Many also thought that Orr had been made a scapegoat due to his openly challenging the University authorities. Orr died in 1966, shortly after reaching a monetary settlement with the University.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13375871", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13375871", "title": "The Copernican Revolution (book)", "text": "The Copernican Revolution (book)\n\nThe Copernican Revolution is a 1957 book by the philosopher Thomas Kuhn, in which the author provides an analysis of the Copernican Revolution, documenting the pre-Ptolemaic understanding through the Ptolemaic system and its variants until the eventual acceptance of the Keplerian system.\n\nKuhn argues that the Ptolemaic system provided broader appeal than a simple astronomical system but also became intertwined in broader philosophical and theological beliefs. Kuhn argues that this broader appeal made it more difficult for other systems to be proposed.\n\nKuhn summarized at the end of \"The Copernican Revolution\", citing the permanent achievements of Copernicus and Newton, while comparing the incommensurability of Newtonian physics with Aristotelian concepts that preceded the then new physics. Kuhn also noted that discoveries, such as that produced by Newton, were not in agreement with the prevailing world view during his lifetime.\n\n"}
{"id": "3869348", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3869348", "title": "The Politics of Individualism", "text": "The Politics of Individualism\n\nThe Politics of Individualism: Liberalism, Liberal Feminism, and Anarchism is a 1993 political science book by L. Susan Brown. She begins by noting that liberalism and anarchism seem at times to share common components, but on other occasions are in direct opposition to one another. She argues that what they have in common is \"existential individualism\", the belief in freedom for freedom's sake. However, she notes that in liberal works there exists also an \"instrumental individualism\", by which she means freedom to satisfy individual interests. Brown argues that the latter annihilates the intentions of the former because it allows individuals the \"freedom\" to disrupt the freedom of other individuals in its aim of achieving individual goals. On the other hand, instrumental individualism requires some degree of existential individualism to sustain itself.\n\nNext Brown looks at how these ideas of individualism were used in the liberal feminist writings of John Stuart Mill, Betty Friedan, Janet Radcliffe Richards, and Carole Pateman. She finds that the existential individualism expressed in some passages of these authors writings are effectively countered by notions of instrumental individualism contained elsewhere. Next she looks at how individualism was used by anarchists such as Emma Goldman and Alexander Berkman, and sees them as maintaining a consistency of existential individualism. However, she sees this as being less the case for other anarchists, including Pierre Proudhon, Peter Kropotkin, Mikhail Bakunin, and Murray Bookchin, who, rather than seeing individuals as existentially free to create their own destiny, devise other means to explain why such a society would work. For instance, she criticizes Kropotkin and Bakunin's efforts to define human nature as innately cooperative as unnecessary, seeing human nature as inexistent or as socially developed. Brown sees existentialism as a better alternative, because it allows anarchists \"to shift the grounds of debate away from 'human nature' with all its attendant problems, toward a consideration of \"how\" we can create freedom for ourselves and others.\" She next looks at the existentialist works of Simone de Beauvoir, seeing her overall notion of the world as created by human individuals as compatible with anarchism.\n\nShe ends by arguing that anarchism has to be feminist or ceases to be anarchism, and those anarchists who are not feminists only compromise their commitment to anarchism by ignoring the domination of women by men. Brown argues that this is true not only for feminism, but for all forms of identity politics. Although she does not argue that feminism has to be anarchist, she does say that anarchism has much to offer feminism as a movement. The same, she says, is true for anarchism, which generally does not often take into account feminist ideas of child-raising and education. For instance, the idea of raising children existentially free from their parents and educated nonhierarchically by a community, is an area of thought not often considered by anarchists.\n\n"}
{"id": "2767233", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2767233", "title": "Triodos Bank", "text": "Triodos Bank\n\nTriodos Bank N.V. is a bank based in the Netherlands with branches in Belgium, Germany, United Kingdom and Spain. It claims to be a pioneer in ethical banking. Triodos Bank finances companies which it thinks add cultural value and benefit both people and the environment. That includes companies in the fields of solar energy, organic farming or culture. The name Triodos is derived from the Greek \"τρὶ ὁδος - tri hodos,\" meaning \"three-way approach\" (people, planet, profit). Triodos Bank's balance sheet was worth EUR 5.3 billion by the end of 2012. The bank was founded as an anthroposophical initiative and continues to honor the work of Rudolf Steiner as the inspiration for its approach to banking.\n\nSavers can open conventional savings accounts, as well as ethical funds and venture capital. Triodos also has an active international department, supporting microfinance initiatives across the developing world. Triodos is the only commercial bank in the UK to provide an annual list of all the loans the bank has made.\nIn 1980 Triodos launched the first \"green fund\", a fund for environmentally friendly projects, on the Amsterdam Stock Exchange. Friends of the Earth in the Netherlands claims that transferring 10,000 euros in savings from a \"climate laggard\" such as ABN Amro to Triodos will effectively result in a carbon dioxide emissions saving equivalent to what would be achieved by not driving a car for six months. The bank compensates 100% of its own CO emissions.\n\nTriodos took over the British ethical bank Mercury Provident in 1994.\n\nAs of 2018, Triodos Bank has 700.000 customers worldwide.\n\nThe bank operations and customer relations are mainly based on the web, but adapt to local customs. In Spain, for example, physical offices are preferred by the clients and therefore several commercial offices have been opened in the major towns.\n\nTriodos Bank maintains the following policy concerning the financial activities and investments:\n\nTriodos is unusual in that it only lends to businesses and charities judged to be of social or ecological benefit. This \"positive screening\" extends its policies beyond those of ethical banks which solely avoid investing in companies judged to be doing harm (\"negative screening\"). The bank uses money deposited by close to 100,000 savers and lends it to hundreds of organisations, such as fair trade initiatives, organic farms, cultural and arts initiatives, renewable energy projects, and social enterprises.\n\n\"[Triodos] does not lend to organisations, businesses and projects that are directly involved for more than 5% of its activities in non-sustainable products and services or non-sustainable working processes. Triodos Bank will however, to the best of its knowledge, exclude all organisations, businesses and activities that produce or distribute nuclear energy, weapons and environmentally hazardous substances\"\n\nTriodos \"publish details of every organisation [they] lend to, and invest in\". The bank displays its annual report online for loans and funds entrusted, which highlights key Triodos Bank facts and figures.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3659669", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3659669", "title": "Universal logic", "text": "Universal logic\n\nUniversal logic is the field of logic that studies the common features of all logical systems, aiming to be to logic what universal algebra is to algebra. A number of approaches to universal logic have been proposed since the twentieth century, using model theoretic, and categorical approaches.\n\nThe roots of universal logic may go as far back as some work of Alfred Tarski in the early twentieth century, but the modern notion was first presented in the 1990s by Swiss logician Jean-Yves Béziau. The term 'universal logic' has also been separately used by logicians such as Richard Sylvan and Ross Brady to refer to a new type of (weak) relevant logic.\n\nIn the context defined by Béziau, three main approaches to universal logic have been explored in depth:\n\n\nWhile logic has been studied for centuries, Mossakowski et al commented in 2007 that \"it is embarrassing that there is no widely acceptable formal definition of “a logic”. These approaches to universal logic thus aim to address and formalize the nature of what may be called 'logic' as a form of \"sound reasoning\".\n\nSince 2005, Béziau has been organizing world congresses and schools on universal logic. These events bring together hundreds of researchers and students in the field and offer tutorials and research talks on a wide range of subjects. Traditionally, the congresses have a contest and a secret speaker whose identity is only revealed when his or her talk begins.\n\nA journal dedicated to the field, \"Logica Universalis\", with Béziau as editor-in-chief started to be published by Birkhäuser Basel (an imprint of Springer) in 2007. Springer also started to publish a book series on the topic, \"Studies in Universal Logic\", with Béziau as series editor.\n\nAn anthology titled Universal Logic was published in 2012, giving a new light on the subject.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32864724", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32864724", "title": "William Dudgeon (philosopher)", "text": "William Dudgeon (philosopher)\n\nWilliam Dudgeon (fl. 1765) was a British philosophical writer. He resided in Berwickshire.\n\n\nA collected edition appeared, under the title of \"The Philosophical Works of Mr. William Dudgeon\", in 1765.\n\n"}
