{"id": "56228682", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56228682", "title": "2020 World Junior Ice Hockey Championships", "text": "2020 World Junior Ice Hockey Championships\n\nThe 2020 IIHF World Junior Championship (\"2020 WJHC\") will be the 44th Ice Hockey World Junior Championship. It will begin on December 26, 2019, and will end with the gold medal game being played on January 5, 2020. This marks the fourth time that the Czech Republic has hosted the IHWJC.\n\nOn April 16, 2018, it was announced that Ostrava and Třinec, in the Moravian-Silesian Region in the northeast corner of the Czech Republic, would be the host cities. It will be the second time that Ostrava has been the primary host of the tournament and the first time that Třinec has hosted in any capacity. Ostrava has also twice co-hosted the senior Ice Hockey World Championships.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9711145", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9711145", "title": "43rd World Science Fiction Convention", "text": "43rd World Science Fiction Convention\n\nThe 43rd World Science Fiction Convention (Worldcon), also known as Aussiecon Two, was held 22–26 August 1985 at the Southern Cross, Victoria, and Sheraton Hotels in Melbourne, Australia. The convention was chaired by David Grigg. Total attendance was reported as 1,599 members.\n\nThe Guests of Honor were Gene Wolfe (pro) and Ted White (fan).\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55960270", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55960270", "title": "70th Anniversary of the Liberation of Kiev", "text": "70th Anniversary of the Liberation of Kiev\n\nThe 70th Anniversary of the Liberation of Kiev was a celebration in Kiev, Ukraine, on November 6, 2013, on the occasion of the 70th anniversary of the liberation of Kiev from the Nazi Invaders.\n\nKiev hosted a military parade in honor of the 70th anniversary of the liberation of Kiev on Khreschatyk Street. several dozens of military equipment passed, including the T-34 tank and the famous \"Katyusha\". In addition, after this, a procession of military bands took place which included the Military Music Department of the General Staff of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, the Military Orchestra of the National Defense University, and the military band of the interior ministry, also with the participation of the honor guard of the interior ministry.\n\nAfter the parade, solemn events were held in the park of Eternal Glory, where veterans, representatives of the public and labor collectives, students of schools and universities honored the memory of those who died in the battle of Kiev.\n\nIn the evening, a concert was organized on Maydan Nezalezhnosti, which ended with a festive fireworks display.\n\n"}
{"id": "28830795", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28830795", "title": "Alexander v. Yale", "text": "Alexander v. Yale\n\nAlexander v. Yale, 631 F.2d 178 (2d Cir. 1980), was the first use of Title IX in charges of sexual harassment against an educational institution. It further established that sexual harassment of female students could be considered sex discrimination, and was thus illegal.\n\nThe plaintiffs were Ronni Alexander, Margery Reifler, Pamela Price, Lisa E. Stone and Ann Olivarius. All were Yale College students between 1973 and 1980.\n\nAlexander and Reifler alleged that they were sexually harassed by a flute teacher (Keith Brion) and hockey coach, respectively, and that Yale provided no procedure through which they could complain. Pamela Price alleged a classic case of what is now known as quid pro quo sexual harassment, when a course instructor offered to give her an ‘A’ if she complied with his sexual demands. Lisa Stone alleged that her discussions with a fellow female student who had been harassed and could not make a complaint distressed her and deprived her of the tranquil atmosphere necessary to her education. Ann Olivarius alleged that the absence of a procedure for complaining about sexual harassment forced her to expend her own time and money on helping fellow students who had been sexually harassed, and that in the course of providing that help she was threatened by individuals whom she was investigating, and that Yale failed to protect her from those individuals.\n\nAt the district court level, a male faculty member and Lisa Stone's thesis adviser, John Winkler, alleged that the poisoned atmosphere arising from sexual harassment made a good relationship with his students impossible. He did not join the other plaintiffs’ appeal.\n\nThe plaintiffs did not seek damages from Yale. Rather, they wanted the court to order Yale to set up a grievance procedure for students who felt they had been sexually harassed.\n\nThe students were advised by Catharine MacKinnon, who had just graduated from Yale Law School. MacKinnon was working on her groundbreaking book, \"Sexual Harassment of Working Women\", and shared pre-publication copies with the Women’s Rights Litigation Clinic at Rutgers Law School, which represented Alexander and her co-plaintiffs. \"Alexander v. Yale\" was an early test of MacKinnon’s theory that sexual harassment constituted sex discrimination.\n\nThe plaintiffs argued that sexual harassment constituted sex discrimination and that Yale University was thus in contravention of Title IX, which stated that educational institutions receiving federal money could not discriminate on the basis of sex. This novel legal strategy, which made use of Title IX, was developed by MacKinnon, Olivarius (then still an undergraduate), and Anne E. Simon, then working for the New Haven Law Collective and now a California Public Utilities Commission Administrative Law Judge. The District Court upheld their legal argument, ruling that, “It is perfectly reasonable to maintain that academic advancement conditioned upon submission to sexual demands constitutes sex discrimination in education.” The Court, however, found that Price had not been sexually propositioned in exchange for better grades. It dismissed the other plaintiffs’ allegations as either moot because they had graduated, or untenable.\n\nThe women appealed. Equal Rights Advocates (ERA) and Women Organized Against Sexual Harassment (WOASH) filed a joint friend-of-the-court brief when \"Alexander v. Yale\" was appealed. Another amicus brief was filed jointly by the ACLU and others. The U.S. Court of Appeals upheld the judgment of the lower court, holding in addition that the allegations were no longer relevant because Yale had instituted a grievance procedure.\n\nAlthough the women did not win their case, they achieved their objectives: Yale instituted a grievance procedure and a court held that sexual harassment constituted sex discrimination. \nAs a result of Alexander v. Yale most U.S. universities instituted grievance procedures for sexual harassment.\n\nThe case received media coverage in \"The New York Times\", \"Time\" magazine and \"The Nation\", which contributed to the emerging concept of sexual harassment.\n\nIn 1986, the Supreme Court ruled, in Meritor Savings Bank v. Vinson, that a hostile work environment constituted sexual discrimination, vindicating another line of argument in Alexander v. Yale.\n\nThree of the five plaintiffs – Ann Olivarius, Pamela Price and Ronni Alexander – have gone on to be prominent attorneys or law professors.\n\nIn April 2012, the plaintiffs were collectively honored by the ACLU in its list of the nine most influential actors in the history of Title IX.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24739930", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24739930", "title": "Anglo-German naval arms race", "text": "Anglo-German naval arms race\n\nThe arms race between the United Kingdom and the German Empire that occurred from the last decade of the nineteenth century until the advent of World War I in 1914 was one of the intertwined causes of that conflict. While based in a bilateral relationship that had worsened over many decades, the arms race began with a plan by German Admiral Alfred von Tirpitz in 1897 to create a fleet in being to force Britain to make diplomatic concessions; Tirpitz did not expect the Imperial German Navy to defeat the Royal Navy. \n\nWith the support of Kaiser Wilhelm II, Tirpitz began passing a series of laws to construct an increasing number of a large surface warships. The construction of in 1906 prompted Tirpitz to further increase the rate of naval construction. While some British observers were uneasy at German naval expansion, alarm was not general until Germany's naval bill of 1908. The British public and political opposition demanded that the Liberal government meet the German challenge, resulting in the funding of additional dreadnoughts in 1910 and escalating the arms race.\n\nMaintaining Europe's largest army and second-largest Navy took an enormous toll on Germany's finances. Theobald von Bethmann-Hollweg, German Chancellor from 1909, undertook a policy of détente with Britain to alleviate the fiscal strain and focus on the rivalry with France. Under Bethmann-Hollweg, and particularly from 1912 onwards, Germany abandoned the dreadnought arms race and focused on a commerce raiding naval strategy to be conducted with submarines.\n\nBritain had the largest navy in the world and its policy was to ensure the Royal Navy was at least the size of the next two largest navies, known as the two-power standard. Britain's economy was dependent on the ability to ship in raw materials and export out a finished product. By 1900, 58% of calories consumed by Britain's population came from overseas, meaning that an inability to guarantee free movement on the seas would result in food shortages. Even before the German naval challenge, British political and military leaders mused about catastrophic economic, social, and political consequences if the Royal Navy could not guarantee British freedom of action. Worry about Britain's ability to defend itself became the focus of the invasion literature genre, which began in 1871, remained popular to World War I, and was highly influential on public opinion.\nThe first Chancellor of united Germany Otto von Bismarck had skillfully guided Germany's foreign relations so it was not firmly attached to any other European power. After his departure in 1890, Germany's foreign policy drifted into deeper commitment with the Triple Alliance of Austria-Hungary and Italy. Friedrich von Holstein of the German Foreign Office convinced the new Chancellor, Leo von Caprivi, to not renew the Reinsurance Treaty with the Russian Empire in 1890. Bismarck had designed the Reinsurance Treaty to keep Russia from an alliance with France; the Russian search for allies who could finance their enormous debts resulted in the Franco-Russian Alliance several years later. Holstein had hoped that the lapsing of the Reinsurance Treaty would result in a closer relationship with Britain, which was competing with both Russia and France, which did not occur. From 1890 to 1897, Germany wavered between pro-British and pro-Russian policies, reflecting the incoherence of German leadership.\n\nIn 1890, American naval historian Alfred Thayer Mahan published \"The Influence of Sea Power upon History\", the single most important work in naval strategy. Mahan argued that sea power was the deciding factor that allowed strong nations to thrive and impose their will on weaker nations, and that the proper way to achieve naval supremacy was large-scale battle between fleets. At the time, the Imperial German Navy subscribed to the commerce raiding theory of navy strategy, but Mahan's arguments had enormous influence over subsequent German and British thinking. \n\nTranslated into German by Admiral Ludwig Borckenhagen who supported Mahan's ideas, a copy of the book was placed in every German naval vessel. Kaiser Wilhelm II immediately subscribed to Mahan's ideas after reading his book in 1894 and sought Reichstag funding to implement them.\nThe Reichstag funded four of the thirty-six cruisers that Wilhelm requested in 1895, and none at all the following two years. Frustrated at being rebuffed, Wilhelm recalled Alfred von Tirpitz from his duties in the Far East to be the Secretary of State of the German Imperial Naval Office in 1897. Tirpitz was a follower of anti-British nationalist Heinrich von Treitschke as well as Alfred Thayer Mahan's ideas on the primacy of battle fleets. In 1894, he wrote a famous memorandum section titled, \"The Natural Purpose of a Fleet is the Strategic Offensive,\" dismissing commerce raiding and coastal defense, and arguing that Germany must prepare for offensive sea battle to ensure its place in the world.\n\nIn his first meeting with Wilhelm in June 1897, Tirpitz stated his case that Germany must confront Britain to ensure its place as a European power. He also outlined a strategy that he would follow for many years: build a German navy strong enough that the effort to destroy it would open Britain to attack from Britain's French and Russian rivals, which is a form of Mahan's \"fleet in being\". Tirpitz calculated that since the British navy was scattered to protect its possessions around the globe, \"it comes to a battleship war between Heligoland and the Thames.\" Both Tirpitz and Bernhard von Bülow, who was Secretary of State of Foreign Affairs from 1897 to 1900 and then Chancellor until 1909, calculated that once Germany possessed a navy that Britain could not destroy without imperiling itself, Britain would be forced to negotiate with Germany as an equal and perhaps even give up its \"splendid isolation\" to join the Triple Alliance.\n\nIn accord with Wilhelm II's enthusiasm for an expanded German navy and the strategic vision of Tirpitz, five Fleet Acts in 1898, 1900, 1906, 1908, and 1912 greatly expanded the German High Seas Fleet. The German aim was to build a fleet that would be two thirds the size of the British navy. \n\nThe First Naval Act passed in March 1898 after an extensive lobbying and public relations campaign led by Wilhelm, Tirpitz, and Bülow. The act funded the building of eleven battleships in the next seven years. Britain had little concern about the First Naval Act as Germany's navy would not be larger than the existing two largest navies, so would not trigger any new measures under the \"two-power standard.\" However, by November 1898 Tirpitz had begun work on a plan to double the fleet to include forty-five battleships and armored cruisers, which he presented to the Kaiser in September 1899. The timing was fortuitous as the eruption of the Second Boer War and British seizure of a German steamer off southern Africa enraged the German public against Britain; the Reichstag passed the Second Navy Law in June 1900.\n\nThe passage of the Second Naval Act in Germany increased worry among British policymakers. In 1902, First Lord of the Admiralty Selborne, Tirpitz's British counterpart, told his fellow Cabinet members that the German navy was being built with an eye for war with Britain. Admiral Jacky Fisher was appointed First Sea Lord (professional head of the Royal Navy) in 1904, and massively reorganized the Royal Navy by bringing most of Britain's navy force close to the home isles. He also set up a committee to design a new super battleship, which especially in the wake of the May 1905 Battle of Tsushima seemed to be the future of naval warfare. was launched in February 1906, just 14 months after being approved. \"Jane's Fighting Ships\" noted that HMS \"Dreadnought\" was equivalent to two or three normal battleships. \nIn the beginning of 1905, the German naval attache in Britain reported to Tirpitz that the British were planning a new class of battleship. That summer, Tirpitz consulted with his advisers; by autumn, he had decided that Germany would match the British naval building plan. Scholars highlight that Imperial German decision-making was so incoherent that Tirpitz could make this decision without consulting the Chancellor, foreign ministry, treasury, the naval strategic planning offices, or the two other naval offices: the Naval High Command and Naval Cabinet. He presented his new supplementary naval bill to the Reichstag, envisioning a 35% increase in spending over the Second Naval Act to build two dreadnoughts and one armored cruiser per year. The bill encountered fierce opposition from across the political spectrum because of the growing government budget balance and resistance by the Reichstag to raising taxes. Fortunately for the bill, the Algeciras Conference that concluded in April 1906 after the First Moroccan Crisis inflamed German nationalist sentiment against Britain and France and the third naval law passed easily in May 1906. \n\nWilhelm and Tirpitz, among other German leaders, viewed British actions as working in concert with France and Russia to encircle Germany. Tirpitz believed that Britain knew that they had a mistake in building the expensive dreadnoughts and armored cruisers, and that Britain would realize their folly if Germany did not flinch in following them. German leaders had also become increasingly nervous about a 'Kopenhagen,' a British strike to disable their fleet like that conducted in the 1807 Battle of Copenhagen. In December 1904, during the heightened tensions of the Russo-Japanese War, rumors spread that Japan's ally Britain would attack and the German ambassador to Britain, who was in Berlin, had to reassure Wilhelm and other senior officials that Britain did not intend to start a war. As fears rose, so did nationalist sentiment, including right-wing criticism of the leftist Social Democratic Party, who resisted higher defense spending and encouraged peaceful foreign relations. \n\nFrom 1905 onward, Admiral John Fisher developed war plans for blockading the German coast; it became a central British strategy and was implemented in 1914. In 1906, Fisher declared that Germany was the \"only probable enemy\" and that the Royal Navy should keep a force twice as powerful as Germany's navy within a few hours of Germany's shores. Eyre Crowe of the British Foreign Office wrote a memorandum on 1 January 1907 to Foreign Secretary Edward Grey that became policy. In it, Crowe urged stalwart resistance to what he viewed as Germany's attempts at hegemony in Europe. He argued that German actions might be the result of a confused strategy, but that the intent was irrelevant to British national security.\n\nIn March 1908, Tirpitz got a fourth naval bill – the second supplementary bill – passed by the Reichstag. It increased the rate of new battleships from three to four per year for the next four years, before stabilizing at three per year. If implemented, Germany would have had 21 dreadnoughts in 1914. Tirpitz continued to assume that Britain would not be alarmed by the German naval buildup and assured Kaiser Wilhelm of the supplementary bill that \"internationally and domestically it looks as small and harmless as possible.\"\n\nThe heightened tensions around the Bosnian crisis led Chancellor Bülow, who was responsible for finding the money to fund the military, to question the value of Tirpitz's strategy, which was costly and appeared to increase Germany's diplomatic isolation. Germany's national debt had doubled between 1900 and 1908 and most of the national budget went to the military. Bülow was coming to the conclusion that Germany could not afford both the largest army and second-largest navy in Europe. Though the German ambassador in London, Paul Metternich, reported that the naval buildup was alienating Britain from Germany, Tirpitz stated that the conflict with Germany was based in economic rivalry, not competing navies. Tirpitz also argued that Germany had invested too much money into the naval program to halt it and that the domestic political coalition that that had been created to support the naval buildup would react unpredictably if the government left the arms race. Facing an ever-expanding budget deficit, but lacking the confidence of the Kaiser and unable to raise taxes in the face of Reichstag opposition, Bülow resigned in July 1909.\n\nUp to Germany's 1908 naval bill, Britain in general had largely ignored the buildup, though some individuals in the military and government were already keenly aware of the potential threat. In December 1907, the Admiralty had in fact proposed reducing the rate of battleship construction to one dreadnought and one armored cruiser the following year, which was in line with the Liberal government's priorities to increase spending on social programs and reduce overall government spending, under the new leadership of Prime Minister H. H. Asquith in May 1908. However, in the summer following the 1908 bill, alarm among the public and in the government rose.\nIn August 1908, King Edward VII visited his nephew Wilhelm in Kronberg. He had been provided with a paper outlining British concerns but decided not to raise the issue of naval spending, as it might spoil the congenial mood. Wilhelm cheerfully commented to Permanent Under-Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs Charles Hardinge that he thought relations between Germany and Britain were quite good. Hardinge politely disagreed, stating that British concern at the German naval buildup would likely result in the Liberal government asking Parliament to expand British naval shipbuilding, resulting in a naval rivalry that would greatly increase tensions between the two countries. Wilhelm sharply replied that there was no reason for British concern and, incorrectly, that the German naval bill did not threaten the relative strengths of the two navies. No resolution was reached, and Wilhelm left the Kronberg meeting believing that he had convinced the British of the justness of Germany's position.\n\nA series of incidents escalated British tension. In autumn 1908, the British naval attache in Berlin reported that Germany was building an extra battleship; in reality, ship builder Schichau-Werke had asked the government for an early contract to build a ship scheduled for 1909 to avoid laying off workers in Danzig (now: Gdańsk, Poland). Then on 28 October, \"The Daily Telegraph\" published what was described as an interview with the Kaiser. The \"Telegraph\" sent the piece to Wilhelm for approval, who in turn passed it to Chancellor Bülow, who passed it on to the Foreign Ministry for their review, which apparently did not take place. In the published piece, Wilhelm appeared, in the words of historian Margaret MacMillan, both \"self-pitying and accusatory\", stating that the British \"are mad, mad, mad as March hares\" because they did not, as he opined, realize that Germany is their good friend and that the naval buildup was not directed against them, but Japan. The \"Daily Telegraph\" Affair was variously seen in Britain as evidence that Wilhelm was mentally unbalanced or that it was part of a sinister plan to sway British public opinion. However, the main effect was in Germany, where Germans were appalled that their leader would make such a public fool of himself, nationalists and conservatives were infuriated by Wilhelm's declarations of friendship with Britain, and leftists were convinced that the Reichstag needed more control over the Kaiser. Wilhelm and the throne were severely weakened, and the Kaiser fell into a dark depression. Wilhelm never forgave Bülow for allowing the publication, which was a contributing factor in the Chancellor's departure in July 1909. \nAfter the German bill, the Admiralty abandoned its plan for reduced construction and, in December 1908, proposed building at least six more dreadnoughts. Opposition in the Cabinet revolved around the cost, led by Chancellor of the Exchequer David Lloyd George and President of the Board of Trade Winston Churchill, who both saw the military expenditures as threats to the welfare reforms promised by the Liberal Party. Lloyd George warned Prime Minister Asquith that Liberal MPs would revolt at a proposal adding an estimated £38 million in naval expenditures to the budget. However, the Conservative opposition, the Navy League, and British arms industry advocated for the spending. In popular sentiment, they were joined by King Edward VII, who supported eight more dreadnoughts. A Conservative MP coined the popular slogan 'We want eight and we won't wait!',\n\nIn response to the broad support for increased naval strength, Asquith arranged a compromise in February 1909 to start four dreadnoughts in the next financial year, with an additional four more by spring 1910 if they were needed. With the Liberals in support, the government defeated a motion of no confidence brought by the Conservatives. Lloyd George included the additional dreadnoughts in his proposed \"People's Budget\" at the end of April 1909, which was rejected in November 1909 by the House of Lords, who were outraged by the measures to redistribute wealth. Asquith dissolved Parliament to hold an election in January 1910; his government lost its majority but remained in office with the support of the Irish Parliamentary Party. In the wake of the election, the House of Lords dropped its opposition to the People's Budget, including funding for the dreadnoughts, which passed in April 1910 and was a significant escalation of the arms race.\n\nIn 1912, German Chancellor Theobald von Bethmann-Hollweg ended the naval arms race. His aim was to secure an understanding with the British to end the increasingly isolated position of Germany. Russian military expansion compelled the Germans to prioritise spending on their army and therefore less on the navy. The initiative led to the Haldane Mission in which Germany offered to accept British naval superiority in exchange for British neutrality in a war in which Germany could not be said to be the aggressor. The proposal was rejected, as Britain felt that it had nothing to gain by such a treaty since its naval superiority was insecure, but the British Foreign Secretary Sir Edward Grey favoured a more assertive policy against Germany.\n\nBy 1913, there was intense internal debate in Britain about new ships because of the growing influence of Fisher's ideas and increasing financial constraints. It is now generally accepted by historians that in the first half of 1914, the Germans adopted a policy of building submarines instead of new dreadnoughts and destroyers, effectively abandoning the arms race, but since they kept the new policy secret, other powers would be delayed in following suit. By the start of the First World War, Britain had 49 battleships, compared with Germany's 29. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "8615232", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8615232", "title": "Asian Touring Car Series", "text": "Asian Touring Car Series\n\nThe Asian Touring Car Series (ATCS) is a touring car racing series that takes place each year across several Asian nations. It includes events at circuits in Malaysia, China and Indonesia. It ran as the Asian Touring Car Championship (ATCC) between 2000-2001, and 2005-2006.\n\nThe championship consists of three classes. Division 1 uses cars built to Super 2000 or BTC Touring regulations. Proton provides the only factory team, whose main opposition is the independent German BMW team of Engstler Motorsport. Division 2 uses Super Production regulations for cars with engine capacities of not more than 2000cc. Engstler Motorsport has a single entry in this class and is the main competition to the four-car line-up of DTM Bel’Air Racing from Hong Kong. Division 3 is a 1600cc class and is the most production-based of the three. Only DTM Bel’Air Racing fielded entries in this class during 2006.\n\nIn 2000, the ATCC moved from Super Touring to Super Production regulations. Reigning champion Charles Kwan, with his teammate Paul Chan and EKS Motorsports entered two BMW 320i to defend his title. Rival Henry Lee Junior joined \"WK Longman Racing\" to fight for the championship. Charles famously won the race at Shah Alam from the very back of the grid that year, but his car broke down in Zhuhai and Macau, allowing Henry Lee Junior to win.\n\nIn 2001, Charles Kwan moved with EKS Motorsport to race in the JGTC. WKS Longman Racing entered Thai driver Nattavude Charoensukhawatana in the championship and he won the title almost unopposed. The only serious rival he had was Chen Jun-San's Toyota Altezza of AAI Motorsports from Taiwan.\n\n"}
{"id": "5951960", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5951960", "title": "Cashiering", "text": "Cashiering\n\nCashiering (or degradation ceremony), generally within military forces, is a ritual dismissal of an individual from some position of responsibility for a breach of discipline.\n\nFrom the Flemish 'Kasseren' the phrase entered the English language in the late 16th century, during the wars in the Low Countries. Although the O.E.D. states that the first printed use in this sense appears in Shakespeare's \"Othello\" (1603), it appeared in the 1595 tract \"The Estate of English Fugitives\" by Lewes Lewkenor, 'imploring his help and assistance in so hard an extremity, who for recompence, very charitably cashiered them all without the receipt of one penny'.\n\nIt is especially associated with the public degradation of disgraced military officers. Prior to World War I this aspect of cashiering sometimes involved a parade-ground ceremony in front of assembled troops with the destruction of symbols of status: epaulettes ripped off shoulders, badges and insignia stripped, swords broken, caps knocked away, and medals torn off and dashed upon the ground.\n\nThe term originated in the era when British Army officers generally bought their commissions; being cashiered meant that the amount they had paid was lost, as they could not \"sell-out\" afterwards. Essentially, the commission purchase price was a cash bond for good behaviour, forfeited to the Army's cashiers (accountants) in the event of cowardice, desertion or gross misbehaviour.\n\nFamous victims of cashiering include Francis Mitchell (1621), Thomas Cochrane, 10th Earl of Dundonald (after the Great Stock Exchange Fraud of 1814), Alfred Dreyfus (1894, see trial and conviction of Alfred Dreyfus and Dreyfus affair), and Philippe Pétain (1945).\n\nWhile most closely associated with Captain Dreyfus, the ceremony of formal degradation (\"Degradation militaire\") occurred several times in the French military under the Third Republic. At least one other army officer and a naval officer were subjected to the ritual of having their swords broken and the insignia, braid and buttons publicly torn from their uniforms, after being found guilty of charges of treason. More commonly a number of NCOs and private soldiers underwent similar punishments for committing various serious offenses, before execution or imprisonment.\n\n"}
{"id": "20362201", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20362201", "title": "Charles Sabin Taft", "text": "Charles Sabin Taft\n\nCharles Sabin Taft (August 1835 – December 18, 1900) was a bystander physician who was pressed into service during the assassination of Abraham Lincoln.\n\nOn April 14, 1865, Taft was watching \"Our American Cousin\" at Ford's Theatre in Washington, D.C., which President Abraham Lincoln was attending. Taft had a good view of those in the presidential box. He observed that First Lady Mary Todd Lincoln often called her husband's attention to aspects of the action onstage, and \"seemed to take great pleasure in witnessing his enjoyment.\" After Lincoln was shot, Taft was boosted up from the stage to the president's box.\nbecoming either the second or third physician to reach the President.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31599406", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31599406", "title": "Chicago (Sufjan Stevens song)", "text": "Chicago (Sufjan Stevens song)\n\n\"Chicago\" (\"Go! CHICAGO! Go! Yeah!\" on the vinyl edition) is a track from Sufjan Stevens 2005 concept album \"Illinois\", released on Asthmatic Kitty. The song tells the semi-autobiographical story of a young man on a road trip, and his youthful idealism. The track is one of Stevens' most popular songs, and he usually ends his live shows with a version of this song. The song has been recorded in five different versions by Stevens himself, the versions not on \"Illinois\" being included on the collection \"\", and one demo released digitally on Stevens' website, later released as a 12\" single bundled with the \"Illinois: Special 10th Anniversary Blue Marvel Edition\". The track has also been sampled by Chiddy Bang on their single \"All Things Go\".\n\nIn the process of making the second album in his ambitious Fifty States Project, which involved recording an album for each of the states of America, Stevens had committed a large amount of time to researching the people and history of Illinois. However this track is one of the most autobiographical on the album. Sufjan Stevens states in interviews around the release, that, \"I've had quite a few exceptional and traumatic experiences in Illinois, a few times when visiting Chicago at a particularly difficult time in my life or driving cross country and being pulled over by the cops just outside Peoria,\" and that he saw his first rock show there. However, he self-deprecatingly qualifies the story of the song as only being partly true, stating, \"The writer is the inventor, the designer, the creative force behind a body of work. The author is the actual man or woman, in reality, in society, in person. I like Woody Allen the director/writer, circa 1975, but I doubt I would like Woody Allen the person, circa 1975.\" Stevens also cited the poem \"Chicago\" by Carl Sandburg as an influence on the track, and had intended to include a track about Saul Bellow on \"Illinois\", but could not find a way to adequately cover the writer.\n\nThe year after the track was released on \"Illinois\", three further versions were included on the outtakes album, \"\", these being an acoustic version, the \"Adult Contemporary Easy Listening Version\", which is a baroque pop version of the original track, and a \"Multiple Personality Disorder Version\", of which Stevens stated, \"James, my drummer was in town, and we decided it would be kind of fun to deconstruct the song\". One further \"(Demo)\" version was recorded during the album recording sessions in 2004 and released digitally on Stevens' homepage on February 25, 2016. It was released as a 12\" bundled with the \"Illinois: Special 10th Anniversary Blue Marvel Edition\" on April 1, 2016.\n\nThe track was well received as the centerpiece of the acclaimed album \"Illinois\". Allmusic described the track as having \"An expansiveness that radiates with the ballast of history and the promise of new beginnings.\", and the track was included as one of the Pitchfork 500 most important tracks since punk broke.\n\nFor original version:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2453986", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2453986", "title": "Clean Pastures", "text": "Clean Pastures\n\nClean Pastures is a 1937 \"Merrie Melodies\" cartoon directed by Friz Freleng.\n\nThe cartoon gets the title from the Warner Bros.' 1936 film \"The Green Pastures\".\n\n\"Clean Pastures\" opens in Harlem, New York City, where African American caricatures gamble, drink, and dance in a sea of bars, clubs, and dancing girls. In Heaven, known as \"Pair-O-Dice\", a black Saint Peter reads the headline, \"Pair-O-Dice Preferred Hits New Low As Hades Inc. Soars\". The angel rings an angelic Stepin Fetchit with enormous lips—probably a reference to Oscar Polk's performance as Gabriel in \"The Green Pastures\"— and orders him to rectify the situation. Gabriel descends to Harlem and stands by a sign (modeled after James Montgomery Flagg's World War I Uncle Sam poster) that reads, \"Pair O Dice Needs You! Opportunity, Travel, Good Food, Water Melon, Clean Living, Music, Talkies\". Nevertheless, the denizens of Harlem continue with their iniquity.\nAngels, caricatures of jazz performers Louis Armstrong, Cab Calloway, Fats Waller, and Jimmie Lunceford, tell Saint Peter that to get people to paradise he will need \"rhythm\" (the short's credits list no voice actors, but a member of the all-black jazz group the Four Blackbirds —possibly Leroy Hurt—provides the cartoon's celebrity impressions). The musicians go to Harlem and break into a performance of \"Swing for Sale\", and the Harlemites flock to listen. The film's climax takes on the characteristics of \"a revivalist camp meeting\" as the band makes its way to Pair-O-Dice, and people follow them in droves. The newcomers receive their halos, and in the cartoon's final gag, the Devil himself asks to be admitted.\n\n\"Clean Pastures\" is a musical film, which means that it shifts between musical and non-musical sections, both of which are integral to the story. Carl Stalling's musical score makes use of both public-domain music and songs owned by Warner Bros. Stalling's music \"supplies both the foundation for the story and the driving force behind the animation.\" Music is of such importance that characters in \"Clean Pastures\" dance about even when no performers are pictured. The all-black jazz group the Four Blackbirds performs the backing vocals for these songs.\n\nA choir of a cappella, black male voices opens the cartoon with \"Save Me, Sister, from Temptation\", a song from the 1936 Warner Bros. film \"The Singing Kid\" featuring Al Jolson. Thus, Stalling establishes one of the cartoon's themes, that sinners may be redeemed, from the opening credits. As the scene shifts to Harlem, the jazz standards \"Nagasaki\" and \"Sweet Georgia Brown\" accompany the bevy of African American vices. Caricatures of Bill \"Bojangles\" Robinson and Al Jolson perform snippets of the blackface tunes \"Old Folks at Home\" and \"I Love to Singa\". However, the short's major number is \"Swing for Sale\", performed by caricatures of popular black jazz performers. The short ends with a jazzed-up version of James A. Bland's minstrel spiritual \"Oh! Dem Golden Slippers\".\n\nBlack critics in the 1930s wrote about the play and film \"The Green Pastures\", but they were silent on its animated parody. Weisenfeld speculates that this is because animated cartoons were not seen as significant at the time. Modern critics of \"Clean Pastures\" fault the film for its stereotypical depictions of black culture. Cultural studies scholar William Anthony Nericcio sees the film as representative of a pattern in the works of Friz Freleng, who also produced such stereotype-ridden films as \"Jungle Jitters\", \"Goldilocks and the Jivin' Bears\", and the Speedy Gonzales cartoons. Lindvall and Fraser are more forgiving and call the cartoon \"playful\", \"light\", and \"mischievous\".\n\nDaniel Goldmark alleges that the film is a burlesque of black religion and culture in its portrayal of Pair-O-Dice as \"heavenly Harlem shops and singing choirs\". In his interpretation, the film's use of rhythm is a metaphor for faith. This demonstrates white Americans' placement of jazz alongside religion and \"the unfettered expressions of emotion associated with it\" as aspects of African American culture. The cartoon implies that jazz cannot be replaced in the black psyche, as the musicians in the film must appropriate jazz, not compete with it, to draw Harlemites to Pair-O-Dice. The mortal characters are given no information about why Pair-O-Dice is better than Harlem, but the upbeat music is enough to lure them there. Even the Devil himself takes the bait. In the end, the film reaffirms the vision of Paradise from \"The Green Pastures\", with its \"perpetual Negro holiday [and] everlasting weekend fish fry.\"\n\nOn the other hand, Judith Weisenfeld sees \"Clean Pastures\" as an explicit rejection of Connelly's fish fry. Instead, she argues that the short is a metaphor for the replacement of one generation of African American performers and stereotypes for a new one as the result of African Americans moving to urban areas. In contrast to \"The Green Pastures\" and its portrayal of rural black culture, the cartoon is set in a solidly urban framework. \"Clean Pastures\" replaces stereotypes of black watermelon eaters and chicken stealers with black dancers, drinkers, and gamblers. Old-style black stereotypes are represented by the Stepin Fetchit angel and his recruitment sign, which promises delights that only appeal to rural black stereotypes. Yet even Bill \"Bojangles\" Robinson and Al Jolson, who built their careers on blackface depictions of rural blacks, reject Fetchit's plea for souls and opt for the Kotton Klub nightclub. The angelic jazz performers represent new, urban black culture. Through their rendition of \"Swing for Sale\", the souls of the Harlemites are saved, and the cartoon makes the point that the African American culture of the period was increasingly urban culture, and by extension, that the black Heaven is an urban, Northern place. Lindvall and Fraser take a similar view, seeing the cartoon as part of the Warner directors' transition from stereotyping blacks as \"rural bumpkins\" to featuring them as \"urban hepcat[s]\".\nGoldmark and Weisenfeld agree that the film's portrayal of black culture is a negative one. Goldmark criticizes the film's implication that certain kinds of black music or black performers are better than others. He interprets the short's jazzy finale, which juxtaposes contemporary popular jazz with a traditional African American spiritual, as representative of this theme:\n\nFurthermore, placing the creators of \"good\" hot jazz in heaven suggests that certain types of black music are better than others: \"hot\" music made in such places as Harlem would lead to debauchery and eventually to Hades, Inc. Only through the noble efforts of famous black musicians could souls be turned to a better direction.\n\nContemporary black commentators argued that to white audiences, Connelly's \"The Green Pastures\" simply reinforced the notion that black people presented a danger that needed to be contained. Weisenfeld argues that this is also the case with Freleng's parody. To white viewers in the 1930s, the film's implication that blacks care for nothing but gambling, drinking, and dancing only reinforces notions of the dangers posed by urban blacks. According to Goldmark, the choice of performers caricatured is telling; that Armstrong and Calloway are depicted as angels indicates that their crossover appeal was strong enough among whites that white audiences would not have felt threatened by the notion that they were angels in Heaven. Weisenfeld notes that by focusing the narrative on Saint Peter and his Stepin Fetchit underling, the animators ducked the potential offense white audiences might have felt upon seeing a black God.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9779009", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9779009", "title": "Dearest Enemy", "text": "Dearest Enemy\n\nDearest Enemy is a musical with a book by Herbert Fields, lyrics by Lorenz Hart, and music by Richard Rodgers. This was the first of eight book musicals written by the songwriting team of Rodgers and Hart and writer Herbert Fields, and the first of more than two dozen Rodgers and Hart Broadway musicals. The musical takes place in 1776, during the American Revolutionary War, when Mary Lindley Murray detained British troops long enough in Manhattan to give George Washington time to move his vulnerable troops. \n\nHart got the idea for the musical from a plaque in Manhattan about Murray. He, Rodgers and Fields first took their musical to Fields' father, Lew Fields, to produce, but he declined, thinking the Revolutionary War story would not be commercial. At the time, Rodgers and Hart were unknown young songwriters, but in May 1925, they wrote songs for a charity revue, \"The Garrick Gaieties\", which became a surprise success, and their songs were a hit. Ultimately George Ford, husband of Helen Ford, a star of the show, agreed to produce it. The musical had been variously described as an operetta and a genuine comic opera in the press. Ford presented a tryout of the musical, titled \"Dear Enemy\" at the Ohio Colonial Theatre in July 1925. After rewrites, it played for a week in Baltimore in early September 1925.\n\nThe Broadway production opened on September 18, 1925 at the Knickerbocker Theatre and closed on May 22, 1926, after 286 performances. Directed by John Murray Anderson, the cast included Flavia Arcaro as Mary, Helen Spring as Jane, John Seymour as Captain Harry Tryon, Helen Ford as Betsy Burke, Charles Purcell as Captain Sir John Copeland, Alden Gay as Caroline, Marian Williams as Annabelle, Jane Overton as Peg, Andrew Lawlor Jr. as Jimmy Burke, William Eville as General Henry Clinton, Harold Crane as General William Howe, Detmar Poppen as General John Tryon, Arthur Brown as Lieutenant Sudsby, Percy Woodley as General Israel Putnam, James Cushman as Major Aaron Burr, Jack Shannon as Private Peters, Mark Truscott as Private Woods, Percy French as Private Lindsay, Frank Lambert as Envoy, and H. E. Eldridge as George Washington. The success of the show led to many more Rodgers and Hart musicals. Despite a good run with very favorable reviews and a national tour, revivals afterwards were few.\n\nThe musical was seen in 1976 at the Goodspeed Opera House, as an American bicentennial production, and in 1996 at 42nd Street Moon in San Francisco. It was given an on-book concert in 1999 by the Musicals Tonight! troupe with piano accompaniment. In 2002, for the Richard Rodgers centennial, New York's amateur Village Light Opera Group (VLOG) produced the show conducted by Ron Noll with an orchestration reconstructed by Larry Moore.\n\nA television musical special featuring Cyril Ritchard, Anne Jeffreys, Robert Sterling, and Cornelia Otis Skinner as Mrs. Murray, in an adaptation by Neil Simon, was broadcast on November 26, 1955, and the soundtrack is still available. A cast recording of that broadcast was released on compact disc in 1997. In 2013, New World Records released a recording of the complete score in the Moore reconstruction. The recording features the Orchestra of Ireland, conducted by David Brophy, and Kim Criswell as Mrs. Murray. According to Steven Suskin, writing in \"Playbill\", it \"couldn't be bettered\".\n\nThe story is based on an American Revolutionary War incident in September 1776 when Mary Lindley Murray, under orders from General George Washington, detained General William Howe and his British troops by serving them cake, wine and conversation in her Kips Bay, Manhattan home long enough for some 4,000 American soldiers, fleeing their loss in the Battle of Brooklyn, to reassemble in Washington Heights and join reinforcements to make a successful counterattack. \n\nPatriot Mary Murray (of the Muray Hill Murrays) and her young ladies are working to sew uniforms for American soldiers, but they are sad at the absence of their young men. Mary's flirty daughter Jane leads British General Tryon's son Harry to her house; she finds him charming. His commander, General Howe, and some British officers commandeer Mary's house as their temporary headquarters. Mary instructs the houseful of beautiful young ladies to discourage the British soldiers, but the girls are eager to engage the enemy in more than just conversation. George Washington sends word to Mary asking her to try to detain Howe and his officers overnight. Mary's feisty, feminist Irish niece Betsy Burke comes home wearing only a barrel after a dog steals her clothes while she is swimming. British Captain Sir John Copeland has gallantly supplied the barrel. Though divided by nationality and Copeland's sexism, they fall in love (\"Here In My Arms\"). \n\nMary gives a Ball for the British officers, promising to show them some of the beauties of the local countryside. The British soldiers are happy to spend time consuming refreshment and indulging in music, dancing and flirtation at the Murray mansion. Betsy and Sir John dream of being together when the war is over as Jane and Harry also fall in love (\"Bye and Bye\"). Mary's messenger is captured, and Betsy volunteers to take an update to General Washington. She is told to return to Mary's house and, when the coast is clear for the American soldiers to move, to light a lantern then put it out. Upon her return, Sir John and she acknowledge their love for each other. When Sir John falls asleep, Betsy lights the signal. The American soldiers march North safely. Sir John is captured but, in the post-war epilogue, he is freed and reunited with Betsy.\n\n\n\n\nThe critic of \"The New York Times\" \"waxed rhapsodic over [songs] 'that are as uncommon as most of them are beautiful'\", and the \"New York Evening World\" called the book \"wise and truly witty and genuinely romantic\" and praised the beauty and freshness of the songs. Historian Stanley Green wrote that there was a \"well-sustained attempt\" to match the music to the plot and period. The ballads were \"dainty, charming pieces.\" The \"Telegram\" reviewer wrote that \"We have a glimmering notion that someday they will form the American counterpart of the once great triumvirate of Bolton, Wodehouse, and Kern.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "8849", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8849", "title": "December 20", "text": "December 20\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2351483", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2351483", "title": "Economic miracle", "text": "Economic miracle\n\nEconomic miracle is an informal economic term commonly used to refer to a period of dramatic economic development that is entirely unexpected or unexpectedly strong. The term has been used to describe periods in the recent histories of a number of countries, often those undergoing an economic boom, or described as a tiger economy.\n\n\nSee Post–World War II economic expansion.\n\n"}
{"id": "34356449", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34356449", "title": "Fashion in Film Festival", "text": "Fashion in Film Festival\n\nThe Fashion in Film Festival (often abbreviated as FFF) is a biennial festival organised by Fashion in Film. The festival is currently in its fourth edition. It has previously been held at venues including BFI Southbank, Tate Modern, the Barbican Centre, the Horse Hospital and the Ciné lumière in London and the Museum of the Moving Image in New York.\n\nThe first Fashion in Film Festival was titled \"Between Stigma and Enigma\" and premiered in London in May 2006 at the Ciné lumière, the Horse Hospital and the Institute of Contemporary Arts. The programme subsequently toured to Kino Světozor in Prague and the Museum of the Moving Image in New York. The poster for the festival's visit to Prague was designed by Petr Babak; its bold colours and black hats suggest early films and later developments.\n\nThe second Fashion in Film Festival was titled \"If Looks Could Kill\" and was held in London in May 2008 at BFI Southbank, Tate Modern, the Ciné lumière, the Institute of Contemporary Arts and the Horse Hospital.\n\nThe third Fashion in Film Festival, \"Birds of Paradise\" was held in London in December 2010 at BFI Southbank, Tate Modern, the Barbican Centre, and the Horse Hospital, touring to the Museum of the Moving Image in New York in April 2011.\n\nFashion in Film is based at Central Saint Martins College of Art and Design in London. It was founded by Marketa Uhlirova, Roger Burton and Christel Tsilibaris in 2005 as a way of encouraging critical response to the use of fashion, clothing, jewellery, make-up and accessories in film, and addressing current practices in the context of film’s long history.\n\n\"Fashion in Film\" commissions new public projects, bringing together artists, designers, photographers, filmmakers, performers and musicians. \"Fashion in Film\" present a mix of popular culture, art and the underground which shows how the moving image has represented and interpreted fashion as a concept, an industry and a cultural form. As well as curating the festival, Fashion in Film collaborates on smaller projects including special screenings, conferences and exhibitions.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10835792", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10835792", "title": "Folk on the Rocks", "text": "Folk on the Rocks\n\nFolk on the Rocks is an outdoor music festival held in July every year on the shores of Long Lake in Yellowknife, Northwest Territories, Canada every summer. The non-profit festival was founded in 1980.\n\nThe weekend event (plus the Friday opening gala \"Warm the Rocks\") features a balance of musicians from Northern Canada and across the globe. The festival's slogan is, \"Where the road ends, the music begins.\"\n\nThe 2010 festival (30th anniversary) took place July 16–18, 2010.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38022101", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38022101", "title": "Foreign body aspiration", "text": "Foreign body aspiration\n\nForeign body aspiration occurs when a foreign body enters the airways and causes choking. Objects can enter the esophagus through the mouth, or enter the trachea through the mouth or nose.\n\nMost cases of foreign body aspiration are in children ages 6 months to 3 years due to the tendency for children to place small objects in the mouth and nose. Children of this age usually lack molars and cannot grind up food into small pieces for proper swallowing. Small, round objects including nuts, hard candy, popcorn kernels, beans, and berries are common causes of foreign body aspiration. Latex balloons are also a serious choking hazard in children that can result in death. A latex balloon will conform to the shape of the trachea, blocking the airway and making it difficult to expel with the Heimlich maneuver.\n\nIn adults, foreign body aspiration is most prevalent in populations with impaired swallowing mechanisms such as the following: neurological disorders, alcohol use, sedative use, advanced age (most common in the 6th decade of life), and loss of consciousness. \n\nSigns and symptoms of foreign body aspiration vary based on the site of obstruction, the size of the foreign body, and the severity of obstruction. 20% of foreign bodies become lodged in the upper airway, while 80% become lodged in the mainstem or lobar bronchus. Signs of foreign body aspiration are usually abrupt in onset with coughing, choking, and/or wheezing; however, symptoms can be more progressive if the foreign body does not cause a large degree of obstruction of the airway. \n\nClassically, patients present with acute onset of choking. In these cases, the obstruction is classified as a partial or complete obstruction. Signs of partial obstruction include choking with drooling, stridor, and the ability to speak. Signs of complete obstruction include choking with inability to speak or cough, and signs of respiratory distress such as cyanosis. \n\nForeign bodies above the larynx often present with stridor, while objects below the larynx present with wheezing. Foreign bodies above the vocal cords often present with difficulty and pain with swallowing and excessive drooling. Foreign bodies below the vocal cords often present with pain and difficulty with speaking and breathing. Increased respiratory rate may be the only sign of foreign body aspiration in a child who cannot verbalize or report if they have swallowed a foreign body.\n\nIf the foreign body does not cause a large degree of obstruction, patients may present with chronic cough, asymmetrical breath sounds on exam, or recurrent pneumonia of a specific lung lobe. The right lower lobe of the lung is the most common site of recurrent pneumonia in foreign body aspiration. This is due to the fact that the anatomy of the right main bronchus is wider and steeper than that of the left main bronchus.\n\nSigns and symptoms of foreign body aspiration in adults can sometimes mimic other lung disorders such as asthma, COPD, and lung cancer. \n\nIf foreign body aspiration is suspected, finger sweeping in the oral cavity is not recommended due to the increased risk of displacing the foreign object further into the airway. \n\nMost patients receive a chest x-ray to determine the location of the foreign body. However, a negative chest x-ray cannot rule out foreign body aspiration. Lateral neck, chest, and bilateral decubitus end-expiratory chest x-rays should be obtained in patients suspected of having aspirated a foreign body. Signs on x-ray that can be indicative of foreign body aspiration include visualization of the foreign body or hyperinflation of the affected lung. Other x-ray findings that can be seen with foreign body aspiration include obstructive emphysema, atelectasis, and consolidation.\n\nWhile, x-ray can be used to visualize the location and identity of a foreign body, rigid bronchoscopy under general anesthesia is the gold-standard for diagnosis since the foreign body can be visualized and removed with this intervention. Rigid bronchoscopy is indicated when two of the three following criteria are met: report of foreign body aspiration by the patient or a witness, abnormal lung exam findings, or abnormal chest x-ray findings. \n\nTreatment of foreign body aspiration is determined by the severity of obstruction of the airway involved. In partial obstruction, the patient can usually clear the foreign body with coughing. In complete obstruction, acute intervention is required to remove the foreign body.\n\nFor choking children less than 1 year of age, the child should be placed face down over the rescuer's arm. Back blows should be delivered with the heel of the hand, then the patient should be turned face-up and chest thrusts should be administered. The rescuer should alternate five back blows followed by five chest thrusts until the object is cleared. The Heimlich maneuver should be used in choking patients older than 1 year of age to dislodge a foreign body. If the patient becomes unresponsive during physical intervention, cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) should be started.\n\nIn the event that the above measures do not remove the foreign body, and adequate ventilation cannot be restored, need for treatment by trained personnel becomes necessary. Laryngoscopy should be performed in unresponsive patients if non-invasive airway clearance techniques are unsuccessful. Laryngoscopy involves placing a device in the mouth to visualize the back of the airway. If the foreign body can be seen, it can be removed with forceps. An endotracheal tube should then be placed in order to prevent airway compromise from resulting inflammation after the procedure. If the foreign body cannot be visualized, intubation, tracheostomy, or needle cricothyrotomy can be done to restore an airway for patients who have become unresponsive due to airway compromise. \n\nIf non-invasive measures do not dislodge the foreign body, and the patient can maintain adequate ventilation, rigid bronchoscopy under general anesthesia should be performed. Supplemental oxygen, cardiac monitoring, and a pulse oximeter should be applied to the patient. Efforts should be made to keep the patient calm and avoid agitating the patient to prevent further airway compromise. After the foreign body is removed, patients should receive nebulized beta-adrenergic medication and chest physiotherapy to further protect the airway.\n\nMany complications can develop after a foreign body is removed, or if a foreign body remains in the airway. Patients may develop inflammation of the airway walls or lung abscess from a foreign body remaining in the airway. Hyperinflation of the airway distal to the obstruction can also occur if the foreign body is not removed. Patients can also develop pneumonia from retained foreign bodies. Episodes of recurrent pneumonia in the same lung field should prompt evaluation for a possible foreign body in the airway. Even if the foreign body is removed, complications such as chemical bronchitis, mucosal reactions, and the development of granulation tissue are possible.\n"}
{"id": "25110494", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25110494", "title": "Gdańsk Shakespeare Festival", "text": "Gdańsk Shakespeare Festival\n\nGdańsk Shakespeare Festival is an international theatre festival devoted to the idea of the Elizabethan theatre, and especially to the works of William Shakespeare. The event was first organized in 1993, on the initiative of Theatrum Gedanense Foundation, which had been created by Professor Jerzy Limon and Władysław Zawistowski, with Charles, Prince of Wales as its patron. Its original name, \"Gdańsk Shakespeare Days\" was transformed into \"Gdańsk Shakespeare Festival\" in 1997, during the celebration of Gdańsk's millennium.\n\nThe Festival is held annually during the first week of August. Most of the plays are performed on the theatre scenes of Gdańsk, Sopot, and Gdynia (Tricity). Some are shown in spaces such as st. John's Church, the former Royal Gun Factory, or Gdańsk Shipyard and in the open air.).\n\nThe Festival aims at presenting and popularizing the output of William Shakespeare by presentation of his plays, but also by other means. After the performances the public can meet with directors and actors. Within the framework of the festival an educational program for students is organized as well. It is called \"Letnia Akademia Szekspirowska\" (Summer Shakespeare Academy).\n\nIt is a prize given every year to the best Polish staging of the Shakespearean play in a theatre season. It has been awarded by the Theatrum Gedanense Foundation since 1994. Each year the prizewinning performances are invited to participate in the Gdańsk Shakespeare Festival.\n\n\nSummer Shakespeare Academy consists of theatrical and creative workshops conducted by Polish artists and famous foreign personalities. The participants are encouraged to develop their passions for theatre, dance, photography or painting.\n\nShakespeare Daily is the newspaper that has accompanied the festival for many years. It is created and edited by the participants of journalism workshops. It contains the information about festival events, reviews, and articles about plays and artists.\n\n'Dolne Miasto Górą' (which could be translated as \"Dolne Miasto is the Best\") is the common name of various artistic workshops organised in Dolne Miasto and Orunia (districts of Gdańsk). It is also called \"Shakespeare mania\" and consists of free workshops for children and teenagers conducted by young artists from Gdańsk. The project was created by Joanna Śnieżko-Misterek, Teatrum Gedanense Foundation and Gdańsk Shakespeare Theatre. The aim of the action is to make the youth conscious of their abilities and to help them develop their interests and self-esteem. The end of the workshops is always celebrated with a theatrical parade. Actors, human-shaped puppets and various artists, together with the residents of Dolne Miasto, march along Długi Targ, which is the centre of the Old Town of Gdańsk.\n\nThe events do not end with the festival's last day. After the festival photographic and literary competitions are organised. Each year a competition for the best festival photograph and review is held. There is also an annual exhibition of the works of young independent artists.\n\n13th Shakespeare Festival was held 1–10 August 2009. It was the first edition of the festival that had a theme – multimedia. Many of the festival theatre groups employed multimedia in their performances. The event was accompanied by an international conference on the phenomenon of multimedia arts in the theatre: Blending the Media. Art in the theatre/theatre in the arts. Among the guests of the conference were such theatre studies stars as Marvin Carlson, Patrice Pavis, Bryan Reynolds, Erika Fischer-Lichte czy Eli Rozik. A lecture was given by Elizabeth LeCompte, the founding member and the director of an experimental theater collective – The Wooster Group.\n\nIt was during this edition that festival performances could be seen outside the Tricity for the first time. This event was called Shakespeare in Pomerania Region. \"A Midsummer Night's Dream\" by the Globe Theatre was shown in Słupsk, Pruszcz Gdański, and Kościerzyna.\n\nPerformances of the main stage:\nAs a part of Shakespeare Miniature Scenes were shown:\n\n12th Shakespeare Festival was held 2–9 August 2008.Among the many performances of the year, the festival included a variety of workshops and lectures by distinguished theatre practitioners. Caleb Marshall (Shakespeare Globe Theatre, Great Britain) gave an acting workshop on Romeo and Juliet, Yoshihiro Kurita (Ryutopia Theatre, USA) and Jarosław Bielski (Replika Theatre, Spain) gave acting workshops on Hamlet, and Bryan Reynolds and Chris Marshall (Transversal Theatre, USA) gave a workshop on transversal acting methodology. Ińaki Arana (Real Escuela Superior de Arte Dramatico, Spain) gave an artistic swordplay workshop, and Bare Feet (Zambia) and the Other Side of the Mirror Theatre (Gdańsk) gave African dance and drumming workshops. Also, Lonnie Alcaraz (Transversal Theatre, USA) gave a workshop for lighting directors and Michael Hooker (Transversal Theatre, USA) gave a workshop for sound directors.\n\nPerformances of the main stage:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8423780", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8423780", "title": "Gordo (monkey)", "text": "Gordo (monkey)\n\nGordo was one of the first monkeys to travel into space. As part of the NASA space program, Gordo, also known as Old Reliable, was launched from Cape Canaveral on December 13, 1958, in the U.S. PGM-19 Jupiter rocket on its AM-13 mission. The rocket would travel over 1,500 miles and reach a height of 310 miles (500 km) before returning to Earth and landing in the South Atlantic. A technical malfunction prevented the capsule's parachute from opening and, despite a short search, neither his body nor the vessel were ever recovered.\n\nGordo was a South American species of squirrel monkey, about one foot tall and weighing between 1 and 1.5 kg. He was chosen for space travel because of his species' similar anatomical makeup to man and sensitivity to changes in temperature. Missions using monkeys in space were not new: four monkeys called Albert, as well as monkeys called Patricia and Mike had all flown by 1962.\n\nThe flight took place at 0353 hours EST when the Jupiter AM-13 rocket containing Gordo was launched from the Atlantic Missile Range at Cape Canaveral. The rocket ascended to a height of 290 miles while travelling 1300 lateral miles. Scientists monitoring the flight found that, aside from a slight slowing of the pulse, Gordo suffered no ill effects from the entry into space or resultant weightlessness. Gordo wore a specially customized space suit and was fitted with instruments, including a thermometer and microphone, to monitor his health.\n\nIn total the flight lasted 15 minutes, of which Gordo was weightless for 8.3 minutes, as the craft exited and re-entered Earth's atmosphere at a speed of over 10,000 miles per hour. The failure of Gordo's parachute meant that both he and the capsule were lost, despite efforts to recover them. It is believed that Gordo was alive at the time of impact.\n\nDespite the loss of Gordo, the mission was considered a success by NASA. It had gone some way towards alleviating the concerns over how the human body would cope with weightlessness and the difficulties of space travel. Less than a year later, Gordo was followed into space by the monkeys Able and Baker who survived a similar launch profile. Despite these advances, though, it would be the Russian Yuri Gagarin who would become the first human in space.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24579425", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24579425", "title": "IndieCade", "text": "IndieCade\n\nIndieCade or Indiecade is an international juried festival of independent games. IndieCade is known as \"the video game industry's Sundance.\" At IndieCade, independent video game developers are selected to screen and promote their work at the annual IndieCade festival and showcase events. In 2009, IndieCade launched a conference track featuring classes, panels, workshops, and keynotes. The conference has since become a major attraction for indie developers and others in the industry.\n\nIndieCade was formed by Creative Media Collaborative, an alliance of industry producers and leaders founded in 2005. IndieCade's board of advisors includes (among others) Seamus Blackley, Tracy Fullerton, Megan Gaiser, Andy Gavin, Carl Goodman, John Hight, Robin Hunicke, Henry Jenkins, Richard Lemarchand, Frans Mayra, Jamil Moledina, Janet Murray, Robert Nashak, Carolyn Rauch, Kellee Santiago, Keita Takahashi, Will Wright (game designer), and Eric Zimmerman. IndieCade founder is Stephanie Barish, Festival Chair is Celia Pearce, and Festival Director is Sam Roberts.\n\nThe festival started as part of E3 before being spun off as an independent event in Bellevue, Washington. In 2009 the festival moved to Culver City, where a Twitter game and an \"urban\" scavenger hunt were part of the festivities.\n\nThe Indiecade festival is the only stand-alone festival for independent games in the United States, and open to the public. Games are submitted for consideration to the IndieCade festival jury in the early spring and a selection of finalists for the culminating annual IndieCade festival is determined and announced by the fall. Additional games from the pool of IndieCade submissions are showcased at a variety of events each year around the world. 2009 IndieCade showcase events included E3, the Ottawa International Animation Festival (OIAF) partnered with the IndieCade organization \"that focuses on independent games and works to cultivate innovation and artistry in interactive media\" in 2009, and an independent video gaming (\"IndieCade Europe\") festival has been held in the United Kingdom in 2007-2009 at Gamecity. In 2016 IndieCade Europe was rebooted and took place in that year and 2017 in Paris, where it will return in 2018.\n\nIn 2009, IndieCade moved its flagship stand-alone festival from Bellevue, Washington to Culver City (Los Angeles), California. Each year, IndieCade \"invades\" downtown Culver City to create a \"city-sized arcade\". The festival transforms a central blacktop parking lot on Main Street, leveraging the open space by building temporary structures that host parties, individual games, and planned and spontaneous Big Games. The previous IndieCade festivals took place October 1–4, 2009, October 8–10, 2010, October 6–9, 2011, October 5–7, 2012, IndieCade 2013 took place on October 3–6 and between October 9 and 12 for 2014. Indiecade 2015 started later in the month taking place on October 22–25.\n\nGameWalk is the heart of the IndieCade festival and consists of approximately 40 finalist games selected for their creativity, unique vision, and technological innovation. The games are exhibited in several locations in downtown Culver City: the Fire Station, NextSpace coworking offices, and the Gregg Fleishman Studio, which are turned into temporary galleries for the festival. It is free and open to the public.\n\nThe IndieCade GameSlam, in the vein of a poetry slam, invites developers to the stage and provide a brief (90 second) showcase of their game, including the idea behind its creation and development. This presents an opportunity for developers to share their work via short presentations within a communal creative environment.\n\nThe Big Games program serves as an extension to IndieCade's mission to promote games of all kinds. Big Games are large, multi-player games played outside and involving physical activity, and range to include technology, tactics, and personal interaction. Big Games are curated by on-site docents, and presents projects such as Ninja (a turn based game of tag), Reality (an Alternate Reality game), and Meatspace Invasion (a mixed virtual/real-world tag/shooting style game). It is free and open to the public.\n\nThe Night Games are an evening event centered on showing and playing multiple games. These games can be single player experiences played on a giant screen in front of an audience (superHYPERCUBE); multiplayer games that use only glowing wands or laser pointers (Johann Sebastian Joust, Renga); or large performance pieces, involving many players (Humanoid Asteroids). IndieCade promotes the Night Games to feature the beauty and innovation of modern game design which is beyond what the audience currently conceives as a traditional game.\n\nThe first IndieCade Mobile 3D Game Jam was hosted in Los Angeles at the University of Southern California's Interactive Media Division on August 6–7, 2011. During the two-day event, 12 teams began the process of creating a fully functional 3D mobile game for the LG Thrill 4G. 6 finalists were chosen to go on to the next round of refining their games in order to compete for the LG Mobile 3D Award at the Red Carpet Award Ceremonies.\n\nThe first annual IndieCade Holiday Party took place at Riot Games (\"League of Legends\") headquarters in Santa Monica on December 14, 2011. The fundraiser featured postcard art sent in by the community, available for sale by silent auction. The art show was curated by Glitch Lab. Notable art contributors were Pendleton Ward (creator of Adventure Time), Jason Torchinsky, as well as Amanda Williams and Katherine Rubenstein.\n\nApproximately 40 games each year are selected to exhibit at GameWalk. The finalists are eligible to compete in IndieCade's Red Carpet Awards. Audience Choice and Developer Choice Awards are announced separately during the festival's Closing Party.\n\nAwards categories include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1168035", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1168035", "title": "Jaycee Chan", "text": "Jaycee Chan\n\nJaycee Chan Joming (born 3 December 1982), better known as Jaycee Chan, is an American-born Hong Kong actor and singer. In 2004, he released his first Mandarin CD album in Hong Kong. He later went to Taiwan to continue his music career. He is the son of the Hong Kong martial artist and actor, Jackie Chan and his Taiwanese wife, Joan Lin. He sings and performs in Mandarin and Cantonese. He is currently on a hiatus from the entertainment industry after being arrested and jailed for providing his apartment in Beijing for acquaintances to smoke marijuana.\n\nJaycee was born and raised in Los Angeles, California, the son of Hong Kong-Chinese action/martial arts star Jackie Chan and Taiwanese actress Joan Lin. Sources, including Jackie Chan's autobiography, state that he was born in 1984 and that his parents were married in 1983. On the other hand, Jackie's official website states that he was born in 1982.\n\nJaycee briefly attended the College of William and Mary in Williamsburg, Virginia, for two semesters, but did not graduate. He has a penchant for luxury cars and nightlife and stated that he left school because \"all you can see in Virginia is sheep.\"\n\nJaycee speaks Cantonese, Mandarin and English.\n\nGiving up on school, Jaycee moved to Hong Kong in 2003 to pursue his career. He composed the music and wrote the lyrics for 10 of the 13 tracks on his first CD, \"Jaycee\" (2004). His film debut was \"The Twins Effect II\", in which his father had a cameo role. His second role was a Hong Kong romance film \"2 Young,\" in which he co-starred with Hong Kong Cantopop singer Fiona Sit. They both worked together again on \"Break Up Club\" in 2010. In 2007, he co-starred alongside Nicholas Tse and Shawn Yue in Benny Chan's action film \"Invisible Target\".\n\nDespite heavy promotions and awards, his albums and movies have had dismal sales. His film \"Double Trouble\" only grossed US$9,000 in Hong Kong, making it one of the biggest box office failures ever.\n\nIn early 2009, Chinese websites reported that he has given up his United States citizenship in favor of Chinese citizenship (Hong Kong residency) to appeal to local audiences. He later confirmed this on his Instagram account shortly after Donald Trump was elected president.\n\nHe voiced the younger version of his father's character, Master Monkey in \"Secrets of the Furious Five\". In addition, he voiced Master Crane in the Cantonese version of \"Kung Fu Panda\" and its sequel, \"Kung Fu Panda 2\".\n\nJaycee and his father Jackie starred together in Jackie's 100th film, \"1911\". The team-up resulted in Jackie Chan's least profitable and worst reviewed film to date.\n\nTo appeal to non-Chinese audiences, his studios hired Korean and Singaporean artists, Jang Nara and Fann Wong, to promote Jaycee's new film, \"Whoever\". The film was meant to satire Jaycee's life as a playboy from a famous father. Once again, the film was a box office disaster, not placing in the Chinese top ten, despite a government mandate requiring it to be played at half the nation's theaters. The studios decided not to release the film theatrically in Hong Kong and Taiwan.\n\nBefore his arrest in August 2014, Jaycee was filming \"Monk Comes Down the Mountain\", for which his role was not credited due to his arrest.\n\nIn 2015, his father revealed that Jaycee had shown interest on writing a script for a sequel to \"CZ12\" and will make the film \"if it's right\".\n\nDuring an awards ceremony in Beijing in April 2011, Jackie stated that he would be donating half his money to charity when he dies, instead of to his son. Jackie explained, \"If he is capable, he can make his own money. If he is not, then he will just be wasting my money.\"\n\nIt was reported that he and his father, Jackie Chan have an estranged relationship with each other. However, after serving six months in jail, Jaycee finally met up with his father for the first time in Taiwan. The two seem to have reconciled. \"I hadn't seen him for too long. I feel he's matured this time,\" Jackie Chan said. \"We didn't talk about unhappy things. It was all family chat. We talked into the night and didn't sleep.\" Before leaving to do a promotion, he gave his son a haircut.\n\nOn August 18, 2014, it was reported that Chan had been arrested on August 14, by Beijing police due to drug possession, alongside Ko Chen-tung (also known as Kai Ko), a Taiwanese actor. Police later found more than 3 ounces of marijuana after searching Chan's apartment. While Ko was set to be released 14 days after his arrest, Chan faced criminal charges and sentences up to the death penalty or life imprisonment for allegedly hosting others to consume marijuana. Chan, whose father Jackie had been China's anti-drug goodwill ambassador since 2009, admitted to taking drugs for 8 years. Soon after, Jackie Chan made a public apology for his son's drug use. On September 17, 2014, Beijing Dongcheng procurator's office approved the formal arrest of Chan on suspicion of \"accommodating drug users\".\n\nChan spent his 32nd birthday in custody with his mother stating that her son has borrowed more than a hundred books to read since he was detained. On December 22, 2014, four months after his arrest, Chan was indicted by Chinese authorities for sheltering other people to use drugs. His trial finally began on January 9, 2015 in Beijing, after spending 148 days in detention. Chan was sentenced to six months in prison and fined 2,000 yuan (~$320 USD). Chan confessed that he broke the law and he should be punished for his actions and that he would not do it again. His parents did not attend their son's hearing although the elder Chan was reportedly in Beijing. His father repeatedly said that he will not use his connections to lighten his son's sentence.\n\nIt was later revealed that during his detention, Chan wrote a three-page remorse letter to his mother in which he promised that he would not repeat his mistakes in the future.\n\nChan was released from jail on February 13 during midnight hours. One day after his release, Chan held a conference in Beijing to make a public apology by saying that he had \"no reason\" and \"no excuse\" for his law breaking and his arrest had \"a negative impact on society\" and that it disappointed his supporters while causing losses for those who worked with him. In his four-minute speech, he promised that he will be a law-abiding citizen and while he still has plans to continue in the entertainment industry, he is more focused on spending Chinese New Year with his parents. He stated that prison life was \"harsh\" and his father did not use any connections to help ease his sentence. He extended a deep bow before and after his speech.\n\nEver since he was released from prison, he has been living with his mother in Taipei, keeps a low profile, and often wears a mask to avoid being seen in public. He still keeps in touch with the Taiwanese actor Ko Kai. He has a younger half-sister name Etta Ng, who was born in 1999 due to his father's affair with former Hong Kong beauty queen, Elaine Ng. However, the half siblings are not known to have met.\n\n"}
{"id": "192059", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=192059", "title": "John W. Campbell Award for Best New Writer", "text": "John W. Campbell Award for Best New Writer\n\nThe John W. Campbell Award for Best New Writer is an award given annually to the best new writer whose first professional work of science fiction or fantasy was published within the two previous calendar years. The prize is named in honor of science fiction editor and writer John W. Campbell, whose science fiction writing and role as editor of \"Analog Science Fiction and Fact\" made him one of the most influential editors in the early history of science fiction. The award is sponsored by Dell Magazines, which publishes \"Analog\". The nomination and selection process is administered by the World Science Fiction Society (WSFS) represented by the current Worldcon committee, and the award is presented at the Hugo Award ceremony at the Worldcon, although it is not itself a Hugo Award. All nominees receive a pin, while the winner receives a plaque. Beginning in 2005, the award has also included a tiara; created at the behest of 2004 winner Jay Lake and 2005 winner Elizabeth Bear, the tiara is passed from each year's winner to the next.\n\nMembers of the current and previous Worldcon are eligible to nominate new writers for the Campbell Award under the same procedures as the Hugo Awards. Initial nominations are made by members in January through March, at which point a shortlist is made of the five most-nominated writers, with additional nominees possible in the case of ties. Voting on the ballot of five nominations is performed roughly in April through July, subject to change depending on when that year's Worldcon is held. Writers become eligible once they have a work published anywhere in the world which was sold for more than a nominal amount. While final decisions on eligibility are decided by the WSFS, the given criteria for an author to be eligible are specifically defined as someone who has had a written work in a publication which had more than 10,000 readers and which paid the writer at least 3 cents per word and a total of at least 50 US dollars.\n\nWorks by winners and nominees of the Campbell Award were collected in the \"New Voices\" series of anthologies, edited by George R. R. Martin, which had five volumes covering the awards from 1973 through 1977 and which were published between 1977 and 1984. Campbell nominees and winners, such as Michael A. Burstein, who was nominated in 1996 and won in 1997, have commented that the largest effect of winning or being nominated for a Campbell is not on sales but instead that it gives credibility with established authors and publishers. Criticism has been raised about the Campbell that due to the eligibility requirements it honors writers who become well-known quickly, rather than necessarily the best or most influential authors from a historical perspective.\n\nOver the 46 years the award has been active, 195 writers have been nominated. Of these, 47 authors have won, including one tie. There have been 51 writers who were nominated twice, 17 of whom won the award in their second nomination.\n\nIn the following table, the years correspond to the date of the ceremony, rather than the year when the writer's eligible work was first published. Each year links to the corresponding \"year in literature\". Although the Campbell Award is not given explicitly for any particular work, and such works are not recorded by the World Science Fiction Society or Dell Magazines, a selection of works that the writer in question published in the eligibility period are listed. This list includes novels and short stories, and is not intended to be comprehensive. Entries with a blue background and an asterisk (*) next to the writer's name have won the award; those with a white background are the other nominees on the shortlist.\n\n  *   Winners and joint winners\n\n"}
{"id": "3076846", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3076846", "title": "Karatsu Kunchi", "text": "Karatsu Kunchi\n\nKaratsu Kunchi (唐津くんち; the suffix \"kunchi\" simply meaning festival) is a Japanese festival that takes place annually in the city of Karatsu, Saga Prefecture, on Japan's island of Kyūshū.\n\nThe festival, which begins on the evening of November 2 and concludes on 4th, features daily parades of fourteen \"hikiyama\", massive floats in the form of samurai helmets, sea bream, dragons, and other fantastical creatures, all constructed from wood, lacquer, and other materials. It is the major event of the Karatsu calendar, regularly drawing crowds of anywhere between 150,000 to 500,000 people from the surrounding area over the course of the three-day holiday.\nEach float — which stand between five and six meters, and which weigh anywhere from two to five tons — is drawn through the streets of the city by teams of bearers selected from families living in the fourteen traditional neighborhoods of Karatsu, to the chant of \"En-ya! En-ya! En-ya!\"(or\"Yoi-sa! Yoi-sa! Yoi-sa!\") and the music of taiko drummers and flutists perched on the floats' base. The event, which is coordinated by the local Shinto shrine (near which the floats are stored during the rest of the year), has been held for several centuries now; the current incarnations of the floats were constructed between 1819 and 1876. In 1980, the festival was designated an \"Important Intangible Folk Cultural Property\".\n\n\nMany women will spend hours preparing food for people that will visit throughout the festival. This is a regular practice.\n\nThe event takes place on the 2nd, 3 and 4 November. The 3rd is a national holiday in Japan called Culture Day.\n\n"}
{"id": "24265311", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24265311", "title": "List of British Invasion artists", "text": "List of British Invasion artists\n\nThe following is a list of bands and artists that were involved with the British Invasion music phenomenon that occurred between 1964 and 1966 in the United States. (Artists shown in boldface are Rock and Roll Hall of Fame inductees.)\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3585578", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3585578", "title": "London's New Year's Day Parade", "text": "London's New Year's Day Parade\n\nThe London New Year's Day Parade also known as \"LNYDP\" is an annual parade through the streets of the West End of London on 1 January. The parade first took place in 1987, as the Lord Mayor of Westminster's Big Parade. The parade was renamed in 1994 and for 2000 only it was called the Millennium Parade.\n\nThe London parade is the biggest New Year's Day street event of its kind. It attracts around a million spectators, and there is ticket-only seating at various points along the route.\n\nThe parade route is two miles (3.2 km) long. Before 2010 it began at Parliament Square in Westminster, continuing along Parliament Street and Whitehall to Trafalgar Square. It then continued along Cockspur Street and Regent Street. The final section was along Piccadilly and the parade ended at Green Park.\n\nIn 2010 the parade route was reversed to \"appease US television broadcasters\" and to \"give the American audience the best views of the capital's landmarks, such as the Elizabeth Tower of the Palace of Westminster (The Houses of Parliament, also known as Big Ben) and Trafalgar Square\". The revised route started at the Ritz Hotel, along Piccadilly to Piccadilly Circus, down Regent Street, then along Pall Mall to Trafalgar Square, then along Whitehall to Parliament Square.\n\nThe parade is used to raise funds for charities in London and representatives from each of the 32 London boroughs are encouraged to take part as a \"borough entry\", judged as part of the event. The winning entry in the 2017 parade was the City of Westminster with the entry titled Mary Poppins.\n\nThe Pride of New Mexico Marching Band from New Mexico State University was the first collegiate marching band to participate in the parade. The band, under the direction of George Hattendorf, marched in the first Lord Mayor of Westminster's Big Parade in 1987. \n\nThe Shawnee Mission West High School marching band from Overland Park, Kansas, USA, has marched in the parade nine times. The 130-member Dixie Heights High School Marching Colonels from Edgewood, Kentucky performed in the parade in 1991 led by Band Director Daryl Angel. The 240-member Walker Valley High School Band from Cleveland, Tennessee, directed by Alan Hunt, and the vocal ensemble from the same school, marched in the 2007 parade. The vocal ensemble was also honoured by being asked to start the parade off by singing the British national anthem. The 140-member marching band from Fort Myers High School in Florida, USA, were initially prohibited from taking part in the 2007 parade because US education officials feared they might be caught in a terrorist attack. The decision was later overruled. The school also hosted the two winners of that year's BBC London competition.\n\nOther American high school groups that have performed include the Gosnen High School Marching Band, Goshen Indiana. Aberdeen High School Marching Eagle, from Aberdeen, Maryland, the Troy High School marching band from Troy, Michigan, the Deep Run Marching Wildcats of Glen Allen, VA, the Blue Valley West Marching Band from Overland Park, Kansas, Turpin High School marching band from Cincinnati, Ohio, and the Golden Eagle Marching Band from Fleming Island, Florida. The Stone Bridge High School Marching Bulldogs from Ashburn, Virginia, and the Menchville High School Marching Monarchs from Newport News, Virginia, who have performed in the parade twice, in 2009 and 2014. The Briar Woods High School marching band, also from Ashburn, Virginia, performed in 2011. The Waubonsie Valley High School Marching Warriors from Aurora, Illinois performed in 2006. The 150-member Murphy High School Mighty Marching Panthers from Mobile, Alabama performed in 1989 receiving top honors. \n\nIn 1996, the Sandy Creek High School Marching band (located in Tyrone, GA) performed at the New Years Day Parade.\n\nSouthmoore High School in Oklahoma performed in 2016.\n\nThe Clinton High School band from Clinton, Tennessee performed in the 2003 parade.\n\nIn 2019, The 2018-2019 Pride of Bixby Marching Band from Bixby, Oklahoma will perform in the parade. Bixby Bands Wind Ensembles will also perform in two London venues prior to the parade. \n\nIn 2019, the Blue Valley Northwest High School Band from Overland Park, Kansas will perform.\n\nIn 2019, the Robert E. Fitch Sr. High School Band from Groton, Connecticut will perform. The High School Choir will also perform at the London International Choral Festival.\n\nIn 2020, the West Orange High School band from Winter Garden, Florida will perform.\n\nIn 2020, the Marshall University Marching Thunder from Huntington, West Virginia will perform. \n\nThe 2014 parade included the 100-member marching band Banda de Musica Colegio Moisés Castillo Ocaña from Panama.\n\nOver 200 Scouts from across London, led by the Enfield District Scout Band, took part in the 2007 parade, heralding the start of the UK's \"2007 Centenary of Scouting Celebrations\".\n\nLondon's town crier is also part of the parade.\n\n"}
{"id": "47031525", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47031525", "title": "Magnum Opus Con", "text": "Magnum Opus Con\n\nMagnum Opus Con (MOC) was an annual multigenre convention which generally took place each spring in various cities in Georgia and South Carolina from 1986–2001. Organized by comics retailer Roland Castle, the convention was designed to attract science fiction fans of all stripes. Over its 16-year run, MOC featured hundreds of celebrity guests and ran hundreds of hours of programming for fans of science fiction, fantasy, comic books, gaming, and other elements of fandom.\n\nMost MOCs took place over three days, from Friday to Sunday. The convention featured a large floorspace for exhibitors, including collectibles merchants and comic book dealers. Along with panels, seminars, and workshops with industry professionals, MOC often featured previews of upcoming films and even a celebrity softball game.\n\nMagnum Opus Con worked on a \"membership\" basis, which enabled attendees to gain admittance to the convention for the entire weekend. Attendees were required to be 18 years or older, or accompanied by an adult. By the early 1990s, the show became known for its parties and risqué cosplay events such as the \"Bimbo Pageant,\" the \"Slave Auction,\" and the \"Mr. Macho Contest.\" Other late-night activities included the \"MOC-Alympics,\" belly dancing, \"MOC(k) Marriages,\" and \"Casino Night.\" These events gradually became more of the focus of the convention, to the detriment of the panels and workshops.\n\nMagnum Opus Con petered out by the early 2000s due to bad feelings and competition from the much larger and more popular Atlanta-based Dragon Con.\n\nThe Macon Opus Con was founded in 1986 by comics retailer Roland Castle, owner of Comics Castle in Macon, Georgia. Castle was president of the Bloom County Fan Club (thus the name \"Opus,\" in honor of the Bloom County character); he hoped (and ultimately failed) to get \"Bloom County\" creator Berkeley Breathed as the con's guest of honor. Castle created a nonprofit, the Middle Georgia Society for Fantasy and Science Fiction, under which to run the show, and the first MOC was held April 18–20, 1986, at the Macon Hilton. Official guests included \"Doctor Who\" stars Jon Pertwee and Louise Jameson.\n\nThe second MOC moved locations 100 miles to Columbus, Georgia, where it was co-organized by retailer Pat Robinson, owner of Columbus Book Exchange. It took place March 27–29, 1987, at the Columbus Ironworks Convention Center. That edition of MOC became notorious because of the death of \"Doctor Who\" actor Patrick Troughton. Although he had been warned by his doctors before leaving the UK not to exert himself because of his heart condition, Troughton appeared to be in good spirits and participated vigorously in the day's panels, and was looking forward to a belated birthday celebration, which was planned for the Saturday evening, as well as a screening of the \"Doctor Who\" story \"The Dominators\", which Troughton had requested personally, on the Saturday afternoon. Troughton suffered a heart attack at 7:25 AM the next day, just after he had ordered his breakfast from the hotel staff. According to the paramedics who were called, Troughton died instantly.\n\nMOC 3, now officially known as Magnum Opus Con was held March 25–27, 1988, at the Columbus Ironworks Convention Center.\n\nFor MOC 4, held March 17–19, 1989, the convention shifted locations 250 miles to Greenville, South Carolina, and the Hyatt Regency, where it stayed for six years. MOC 5, held March 23–25, 1990, focused on Star Trek, Doctor Who, comics, and film (featuring anime and a \"cinema contest\"). The convention included an art show and live role-playing games. MOC 7, held March 26–29, 1992, expanded to four days, from Thursday–Sunday.\n\nBy this time, organizer Roland Castle felt that the Atlanta-based Dragon Con (est. 1987) was impinging on his territory, and that DC employees, including organizer Edward E. Kramer, were disrupting MOC. [See \"Fandom\", below.] Castle began a policy of \"banning\" various individuals from MOC, which eventually included official guests like Tom Deitz.\n\nMOC 10 signaled a shift in many ways for Magnum Opus Con. After five years in Greenville, South Carolina, Castle moved MOC 225 miles to Callaway Gardens, in Pine Mountain, Georgia. As befitting its new location, MOC 10 attempted to become more family-friendly, toning down the revelry and eliminating the \"Slave Auction\" and the \"Bimbo Pageant.\" Guests included the usual celebrities and science fiction authors, as well as NASA scientists and former astronauts. That year's show motto was \"Bringing you the BEST in science AND science fiction!\" In addition, after being held exclusively in March or April every year, MOC 10 was scheduled for July 13–16, 1995, the same weekend as Dragon Con. MOC 10 was dedicated to author Roger Zelazny, a scheduled guest who died shortly before the show. Despite, or maybe because, of all the changes, MOC 10 was not well attended.\n\nTo make up for the perceived failures of MOC 10, Castle organized \"MOC 10A,\" which took place February 15–18, 1996, at the Adams Mark Hotel, in Charlotte, North Carolina. By all reports, MOC 10A returned to the debauchery of previous Magnum Opus Cons, with the Slave Auction, Bimbo Pageant, and Mr. Macho Contest all returning to prominence. Total attendance was reported to be around 450 people.\n\nMOC 11 was held June 13–16, 1996, at the Downtown Raddison, in Atlanta, Georgia, again in competition with Dragon Con (which took place the following weekend). MOC 12 returned to its traditional March schedule, staying in Atlanta, and featuring comics guests like Keith Giffen, Alan Grant, and Simon Bisley. It also downsized a bit, returning to a three-day event. By this time, attendance at MOC was declining, in many ways due to competition from Dragon Con. (In June of that year, Castle publicly accused Dragon Con of sabotaging his convention and poaching MOC guests.)\n\nFor MOC 13, held March 20–22, 1998, the convention moved 75 miles to Athens, Georgia. and the History Village Inn, where it stayed for the next three years. That year, Castle organized \"MOCtoberfest '98,\" held October 30–November 1, 1998, also at the History Village Inn in Athens.\n\nMOC 15, held March 31–April 2, 2000, was Roland Castle's final show as convention chairman; he stepped down early the next year due to stress-related health reasons.\n\nMagnum Opus Con's new co-chairmen were Monnie Robinson and Greg Bell, who had both been involved in MOC for many years. Robinson and Bell dubbed MOC 16 \" The Sweet Sixteen Party,\" which was held March 15–18, 2001, at the Ramada Plaza Hotel Perimeter North, in Atlanta. Despite the new leadership, the show was not a success, and MOC 16 turned out to be the convention's last hurrah.\n\nOver the years, MOC guests included \"Doctor Who\" actors like Colin Baker, Tom Baker, Louise Jameson, Jon Pertwee, and Patrick Troughton; \"Star Trek\" actors James Doohan, DeForest Kelley, and George Takei; celebrities like Bruce Boxleitner, Bruce Campbell, Phyllis Coates, Yvonne Craig, Chris Potter, and Tom Savini, science fiction authors Robert Aspirin, Ben Bova, Marion Zimmer Bradley, Lois McMaster Bujold, Brad Strickland, David Weber, Timothy Zahn, and Roger Zelazny; comics creators like Keith Giffen, Alan Grant, Simon Bisley, Garth Ennis, John McCrea; and former astronauts Bruce McCandless II, Story Musgrave, and Robert C. Springer.\n\nTo promote the Magnum Opus Con, organizer Roland Castle published a 48-72 p. black-and-white fanzine called \"Fandom.\" The 'zine highlighted guests and events, showcased cosplay cheesecake photos, and served as a forum for Castle and MOC attendees to communicate. In later years, Castle used \"Fandom\" to detail his grievances against Dragon Con, which he claimed was attempting to squash his smaller-scaled convention.\n\n"}
{"id": "4740291", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4740291", "title": "Mark 15", "text": "Mark 15\n\nMark 15 is the fifteenth chapter of the Gospel of Mark in the New Testament of the Christian Bible. It continues Jesus' passion, including his trial before Pontius Pilate and then his crucifixion, death and entombment.\n\nThe New King James Version organises this chapter as follows:\n\nIt is early in the morning. The Sanhedrin reaches a decision and hands Jesus over to Pontius Pilate. Pilate was the Roman Prefect (governor) of Iudaea Province from 26 to 36, which was the Roman combination of Idumea, Judea and Samaria and did not include Galilee, which was under the jurisdiction of Herod Antipas. According to Matthew, the Sanhedrin had decided to execute Jesus. Only the Romans were allowed to execute someone, not the local officials, according to , yet records the Sanhedrin ordering the stoning of Saint Stephen and also James the Just according to Antiquities of the Jews (20.9.1), resulting in a rebuke from the Roman authority.\n\nTextus Receptus/Majority Text:\n\nCross reference: ; ; \n\nAn interpretation is that Pilate is asking Jesus if he is the messiah, just as the high priest before in , only with an explicit emphasis on the Messiah's political role, that of Jewish King. According to John's gospel, in response to Pilate's question Jesus has a short conversation with Pilate and then answers, \"You are right in saying I am a king. In fact, for this reason I was born, and for this I came into the world, to testify to the truth. Everyone on the side of truth listens to me.\" Historically it is likely that perceived insurrection against Rome was for what Pilate executed Jesus. According to , however, Jesus said one should pay the Roman tax and was thus not a revolutionary. The 1985 Jesus Seminar reached the conclusion that the temple incident was the cause of the crucifixion.\n\nThe chief priests make several further, unspecified, allegations, \"heaping accusations on Him\". Some manuscripts state here that Jesus gives no reply. Pilate pushes him for one but he still remains silent, which amazes or surprises Pilate. According to Luke, Pilate at this point sent Jesus to Herod Antipas because Jesus, as a Galilean, was under Herod's jurisdiction. Herod was excited to see Jesus at first, but ended up mocking him and sending him back to Pilate.\n\nAccording to Mark's account, it was a custom to release a prisoner at Passover, which was a celebration of freedom. No other historical record of the time records Pilate doing this, and he is known to have been cruel, for which he was eventually expelled from his post. (JA18.4.2) All the other Gospels however also agree with Mark on this tradition. Some theologians suggest that Pilate did this once or a few times or that the Gospels accurately record this tradition even though other sources fail to mention. The Jesus Seminar argued doing this during a volatile situation like this would have been unlikely.\n\nAccording to Matthew, Pilate received a message from his wife that she believed Jesus was innocent because of a disturbing dream she had just had. He asks the crowd if they want the King of the Jews released to them because, according to Mark, Pilate knew the priests were envious of Jesus and so presumably wanted to free him without a fight with them.\n\nThe priests however convince the crowd to ask for the release of Barabbas, a prisoner. Mark says he was in prison chained \"with\" insurrectionists who had committed murder during a recent στασισ (\"stasis\", a riot), probably \"one of ... numerous insurrections against the Roman power\" Theologian John Gill says he was \"at the head\" of the rebels. Both Luke and John say he was a revolutionary. Jesus seems to have already been declared guilty as this seems a choice between releasing two prisoners.\n\nPilate then asks what should be done with Jesus. They say he should be crucified, but Pilate asks what he is guilty of. They still demand he be crucified so Pilate turns Barabbas over to the crowd and has Jesus flogged and then sent out to be crucified. Matthew has Pilate washing his hands and declaring the crowd responsible, which the crowd accepts.\n\nFor his flogging Jesus would have been tied to a pillar, and hit with bone or metal studded whips. Crucifixion was a particularly shameful form of death, with a stigma put onto even the condemned's family.\n\nRoman magistrates had wide discretion in executing their tasks, and some question whether Pilate would have been so captive to the demands of the crowd. Summarily executing someone to calm the situation however would have been a tool a Roman governor would have used.\n\nMark says the soldiers took Jesus to the Praetorium, either Herod's palace or the Fortress Antonia. They gather together all the other soldiers. These were probably mostly recruits from the area of Palestine or Syria.\n\nThe soldiers put a purple robe on Jesus and put a crown of thorns on his head and mockingly hail him as the King of the Jews. They hit him in the head with a staff and pay fake homage to him. According to Matthew they put the staff in his hand first before beating him with it. They dress him in his own clothes and take him out to be crucified. According to John they left his purple robe and crown on.\n\nJesus is given the trappings of a King. Purple is a royal color. He wears a crown and is hit with a staff, also a royal symbol. This whole scene is colored with divine irony, as everything the soldiers do to mock Jesus' claim of being a King is used by Mark to show this, at the height of the Passion, as Jesus' crowning as messiah according to God's plan.\n\nAccording to John after the flogging Pilate brought Jesus back a second time and tried to convince the crowd that he was innocent but the crowd still demanded Jesus' death and so then Pilate had him crucified. Luke has no account of the soldiers beating Jesus.\n\nOn the way to their final destination the soldiers force a man passing by, Simon of Cyrene, to carry Jesus' cross for him, though Mark does not say why. Cyrene was in North Africa and Simon would have moved from there or would have been visiting. Mark lists his children, Alexander and Rufus. That Mark takes the time to list only their names suggests they might have been Early Christians known to Mark's intended audience. Paul also lists a Rufus in Romans 16:13. Luke has Jesus talking to some of his women followers along the way.\n\nThey arrive at Golgotha, which Mark says means the place of the skull. This was probably an exhausted rock quarry whose remaining rock had been damaged in an earthquake.\n\nThey offer Jesus wine laced with myrrh to lessen the pain, but he refuses. Mark then simply says they crucified him. They then take his clothes and divide lots to distribute them. People have seen a relationship with this and Psalm 22:18, which John actually quotes as a fulfillment of prophecy.\n\nAccording to Mark, it was the \"third hour\" when Jesus was crucified. This would be the third hour of daylight, or about 9:00 AM. John however says Jesus was condemned to death around the sixth hour, or noon. The charge listed on Jesus' cross is \"THE KING OF THE JEWS\" (INRI) According to John, the chief priests complained to Pilate about this but he refused to change the charge.\n\nTwo robbers were also crucified on each side of him and according to Mark 15, both of them mocked Jesus, even when they were in their processes of death. Luke reports the robbers' conversation with Jesus. People come by and insult Jesus and mock him for claiming he would destroy and then rebuild Herod's Temple in three days, which Jesus has not said so far in Mark but was falsely accused of claiming to destroy the \"man-made\" Temple and rebuilt it in three days in Mark 14:57–58. The chief priests are also there and say that if he is really the Christ then he should be able to come down from the cross and save himself as he had saved others, a reference to his many miracles earlier in Mark.\n\nMark relates these two mockings to perhaps highlight the question of why, if Jesus is indeed the messiah, can he not save himself from being put to death. Mark refutes these two charges later when Jesus rebuilds the Temple of his body and not only overcomes the cross but death itself in Mark 16. Mark might be stressing that if one follows Jesus, who Mark believes is the messiah, then one can expect help from God, such as Jesus' miracles, but one will not be saved from the pains of this world, and indeed in some way they are necessary to achieve a greater goal as Jesus' death is necessary for his role as the messiah.\n\nAccording to Mark:\n\nThe soldier might be recognizing something that no one else could and thus vindicating Jesus, or he might be saying this sarcastically. This statement may bring the Gospel full circle to where Jesus is identified by the writer as \"the Son of God\" (only in some versions, see Mark 1 for details). Luke records that he said that Jesus was a righteous man. Matthew adds that at the moment of Jesus' death tombs in Jerusalem were opened and many bodies of \"the saints\" were raised from the dead. They were seen subsequently in the \"holy city,\" Jerusalem, by many ().\n\nThe veil of the Temple was the barrier between the inner Temple, thought to be God's place on Earth, and the rest. Its destruction is a vindication of Jesus. This might be a metaphor for God now no longer being separated but free for all the world. Given the imagery of the temple veil (there were cherubim woven into it, like the cherub set as guard over the entrance to Eden after Adam and Eve were cast out) as a symbol of the barrier between the Holy God and sinful men, the rending of the veil indicates a propitiation of God's wrath.\n\nAccording to John, Jesus' mother Mary and her sister Mary were there with the Disciple whom Jesus loved and Jesus told the disciple to take Mary into his home.\n\n\"For the subject in art, see Entombment of Christ\"\nIt is notable that, according to Mark, it is only Jesus' women followers who are now still with him:\n\nMary Magdalene has not been mentioned so far in Mark, and the other Mary is perhaps Jesus' mother Mary as she is also mentioned as James' mother in Mark 6:3. She could also be another Mary, perhaps another relative. Salome was James' and John's mother. The fact the Mark has not explicitly related any of Jesus' interaction with them shows that Mark has left out many of the events of the life of the \"Historical Jesus\" and only related events he deems necessary to make his points about Jesus.\n\nJohn says the soldiers were told to take down the bodies for the Sabbath and broke the other two men's legs but stabbed Jesus with a spear to make sure he was dead. John claims this is eye witness testimony.\n\nEvening is approaching and Joseph of Arimathea, a member of the sanhedrin, who was also waiting for the \"Kingdom of God,\" goes to Pilate and asks for Jesus' body. The Scholars Version notes this as \"unexpected .. Is Joseph in effect bringing Jesus into his family?\" As the next day was the Sabbath Jesus would have to have been buried before sundown or then not until the next night. According to Mosaic law, if someone was hanged on a tree they were not to remain there at night. () Pilate is surprised Jesus had died so soon and asks for confirmation, and then gives Jesus' body to Joseph.\n\nJoseph wraps it in linen and puts it in a sepulchre, rolls a stone over the entrance, and leaves. According to John, he was assisted by the Pharisee Nicodemus. The two Marys witness the burial, or at any rate the location where Jesus' body was buried: German biblical commentators Meyer and Weiss infer from the Greek perfect tense τέθειται (\"tetheitai\", he was laid) that \"the women were not present at the burial, but simply approached and took note where Jesus lay after burial\". Bodies were normally anointed, but there seems to be no time here. John however says Nicodemus wrapped up Jesus' body with spices, which seems to indicate an anointing. The tomb, one of many around Jerusalem, was a limestone cave and Jesus' body would have been laid on a pre-cut shelf, and then most bodies would have been left for a year.\n\nJesus' trial before Pilate and his crucifixion, death, and burial are also found in Matthew 27, Luke 23, and John 18:28–19:42.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25126575", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25126575", "title": "Matzo Ball", "text": "Matzo Ball\n\nThe Matzo Ball is an annual Christmas Eve nightlife event and party held in a number of major cities in the United States and Canada targeted primarily at young Jewish singles and organized by the Society of Young Jewish Professionals.\n\nThe name of the event is frequently styled as MatzoBall or misspelled as Matzah Ball or MatzahBall.\n\nThere are a number of competing social events in Jewish communities throughout the U.S. and Canada held that same night. In addition, Matzo Ball and similar spellings are also used as the names for a variety of other, unrelated Jewish community events in particular regions.\n\nHistorically, Jews in Europe would hide in their homes and villages during the Christmas holiday, for fear of violence from locals. In the United States, Christmas and Christmas Eve typically serve as times of family gathering and prayer for Christians and many others.\n\nThe atmosphere of religious liberalism and tolerance in the United States has offered American Jews the opportunity to enjoy the holiday period.\n\nAt the same time, many American Jews do not engage in the same family-gathering activities on the Christmas holiday that Christians in the United States do.\n\nWith Christmas Day a work holiday throughout the United States, there is a space of unfilled free time during which much of American commerce and society is not functioning, and which could lead to a sense of alienation or loneliness for American Jews.\n\nTypical contemporary activities were usually limited to \"Chinese and a movie\"—consuming a meal at a Chinese restaurant, which tend to be open for business on the Christmas holiday, and watching a movie at the theater or at home, stereotypically a rerun of \"It's a Wonderful Life\".\n\nWith the rise of the Matzo Ball and similar local events, the night of December 24 has become an opportunity to transform this otherwise brief period into one made to gather, socialize, catch up with old friends, network, drink, flirt, and romance. The event has turned Christmas Eve into a matchmaking or dating event for young Jews and \"the biggest singles night of the year.\" The event is an opportunity to meet \"'a lot of like-minded people dressed up to have a good time, network, find their mate'.\"\n\nWhether \"by their own volition or by the insistent nudging of their parents and grandparents,\" many young American Jews now attend these Christmas Eve singles events. While some party-goers admit that they attend with an eye toward flirting and romance, others maintain that they go only to spend time with friends, dance, and drink cocktails.\n\nEvents such as the Matzo Ball are also seen by some leaders in the Jewish community as a last chance to engage some young American Jews who come \"out of the woodwork\" for drinking and socializing but are otherwise difficult to reach and uninvolved with Jewish organizations.\n\nThe first Matzo Ball event was held in Boston in 1987 and organized by local social figure Andy Rudnick.\n\nAs a Boston University senior in political science and part-time bartender in 1986, Rudnick attended a Jewish young professionals Christmas Eve gathering at a local hotel, where he found a staid atmosphere similar to a high school prom, with women on one side of the room, and men on the other. The environment, including the strong lighting, waits to purchase drink tickets and to receive a drink, bad music, and stale latkes were not conductive to meeting people and having fun.\n\nFollowing that incident, Rudnick began developing the idea for hosting an event the next December 24 at the nightclub he then bartended part-time at, Metro. He and his friends built up awareness of the upcoming event through word of mouth, posters, and flyers hand-distributed, including at malls. Some coverage of the event by local radio DJs, who invited Rudnick on-air to promote it, and Rudnick's on-air exaggerations about expected ticket sales, helped spread the word and 2,000 people attended the first Matzo Ball. Rudnick soon quit his job in commercial real estate to focus on the organization and event, and expanding to other cities.\n\nThe name of the event and the name of the organization were created on-the-spot in 1987. The event name was inspired by Rudnick's Irish-American coworker's question about Jewish cuisine, and the organization's name was thought up by Rudnick and his Italian-American nightclub bosses, Boston Entertainment mogul brothers John and Patrick Lyons, who were concerned about offending both Jews and Christians with the stereotypical name Matzo Ball for an event being held on Christmas Eve, and harming the club's reputation. Other names for the event considered by Rudnick were 'Tribe Trot' and 'Heeb Hop', both of which were rejected upon the recommendation of Rudnick's mother, who also found the name Matzo Ball to be cute.\n\nThe event has permeated American Jewish consciousness, even winding up in fiction, and has been cited as a desired destination in online gossip publications.\n\nMatzo Ball events are generally held at popular nightclubs in the cities in which the event is located. The average age range of the crowd spans from the 20s through 40s, unless otherwise specified. A ticket purchased at the door can cost $30–40.\n\nAttendance at the New York event can average from 1,100 to 1,700 people, with an entry line forming outside the venue 30 minutes before the scheduled start time. Crowd sizes at smaller venues, like in Boca Raton, can be 800 to 1,000 people., but with a crowd that arrives later, leading to a long line for entry at midnight.\n\nThe event is typically scheduled to begin at 8 or 9 p.m. and run through the last call time for the state/locality, with peak attendance and flirting at approximately midnight.\n\nIn some cities, ticket prices include hors d'oeuvres and sometimes a ticket for a free drink, sometimes limited to early arrivals. The crowd is often well-dressed.\n\nSome party-goers to Christmas Eve singles events \"pregame\" with friends at home before arriving at the event.\n\nIn some cities, the Matzo Ball is linked officially or unofficially to other Jewish events on Christmas Eve and Christmas Day, such as volunteering at local food banks.\n\nRudnick and SYJP have also experimented with a variety of other activities, including singles cruises, Valentine's Day and Passover-linked parties, and a magazine.\n\nThe official organizer for the Matzo Ball events is Rudnick's Society of Young Jewish Professionals. An occasional sponsor of the Matzo Ball is JDate, even during those periods when JDate organized its own Christmas Eve event in Los Angeles under the name 'Schmooz-a-Palooza'.\n\nLocal groups and individuals also sometimes work with SYJP, especially when the event is new or newly reintroduced in a given city.\n\nAt various times, the Matzo Ball has experimented with dividing some of its venues by age into different rooms or even separate adjacent venues, even giving a separate event name, \"The Big Chill\", to the party catering to 30-somethings seeking a less-noisy environment. The events are open to the public, and couples and non-Jews looking for a Christmas Eve activity are welcome to come, \"though, obviously, it caters largely to young people who aren't spending Christmas Eve with their families or at church.\"\n\nIn some Matzo Ball cities, a number of attendees are from out-of-town, particularly in cities that have large numbers of visitors or where families tend to gather for the winter holidays, such as Boca Raton, which has a large number of New Yorkers during the holiday period.\n\nRudnick's formula for the Matzo Ball atmosphere is to find a large venue that can handle the large crowds, and for the lights to get dimmer and the music to get louder gradually over the course of the night. This allows for easier mingling and conversation earlier in the night before the hip-hop and dance/house music becomes loud enough to encourage dancing.\n\nRudnick rejects the usual aspects of Jewish social events, including name tags, announcements, and live bands, because they would be a distraction from mingling.\n\nRudnick and SYJP expand the Matzo Ball to new cities when they believe that have found the infrastructure and potential clientele of young, upscale Jewish people necessary to make the event successful.\n\nAs of 2014, it has expanded to the following cities:\n\nIn past years, the Matzo Ball also held events in the following cities where it no longer does:\n\nPrior to the mid-2000s, in Los Angeles, the Matzo Ball had ceded the region to the much more locally long-standing Schmooz-a-Palooza hosted by Stu & Lew Productions (which was acquired by JDate in 2006), before becoming a co-promoter for the event with JDate. Starting at least as early as 2009, the Matzo Ball partnered with JDate and promoted as a Matzo Ball the JDate/Stu & Lew Productions Schmooz-a-Palooza. By 2014, the Schmooz-a-Palooza brand appeared to have been retired from use.\n\nRudnick promotes the in-person meetings that take place at the Matzo Ball as an antidote to online dating and its tendency to urge daters to always look for an even better catch around the corner.\n\nThe socializing and flirting that takes place at the Matzo Ball gives rise to many romantic relationships. The organizers believe that more than 1,000 marriages have resulted from meetings at various Matzo Balls (and stopped counting after reaching the 1,000 mark), and Rudnick himself met his wife at a Matzo Ball in 1997, where she tended bar.\n\nAs of the mid-2010s, there is now a \"second generation\" of Matzo Ball attendees — children born to parents who first met at the Matzo Ball in previous decades — who are now old enough to attend.\n\nThere are also a number of competitors to the Matzo Ball and other events organized in cities where no Matzo Ball is held.\n\nThe competition among the Christmas Eve parties has occasionally been stiff, especially during the \"Matzo Ball wars of the early 90s\", with use of similar-sounding event names, the use of touts and bouncers to chase away those touts outside events, and ticket dumping to \"crush\" the competition.\n\nA major competitor to the Matzo Ball in New York is known simply as \"The Ball\", which began operations in 1994. In New York City, The Ball focuses on having separate venues, five as of the early 2010, targeted by age demographic, and with attendees receiving limousine service between venues, although party-goers must purchase an all-access pass to attend all five events.\n\nIn 2008, the organizer of The Ball, LetMyPeopleGo, attempted to expand the event into 24 other cities with significant Jewish populations. In almost all of those cities, with local marketing and co-hosting of the event performed by JDate, it was cancelled near the event date.\n\nHowever, the Los Angeles version of The Ball, which was instead co-sponsored and co-marketed by the young adults divisions of the LA Guardians, the Los Angeles Jewish Home for the Aging foundation, was successful and held again in 2009. The co-sponsorship continued, raising money for the LA Jewish Home, through 2012. In 2013, the Guardians and The Ball broke off their association, as the Guardians began organizing their own Christmas Eve event. The Ball, in turn, partnered nationally with online dating sites Match.com and OKCupid, both of which advertised The Ball events across the country to their members.\n\nAs of 2014, The Ball held Christmas Eve events in two cities: Los Angeles and New York.\n\nOther New York City Jewish Christmas Eve events include parties for \"the pro-Israel crowd, Jewish gays and lesbians, and downtown Jewish hipsters.\"\n\nThe sheer number of events, combined with the compactness of Manhattan, means that events are often held within a short walking distance, if not eyesight of one another.\n\nLikewise, by the late 2000s, Chicago Jewish Christmas Eve events ran the gamut of tastes and preferred crowd. These included gatherings named 'Rockmitzvah', 'Hubukkah', the 'Heebonism' bash (sponsored by Heeb Magazine), and the more mainstream 'The Juju Ball' and 'Retro Eve', a long running but now defunct event.\n\nIn Washington, DC, a longtime competitor and alternative to the Matzo Ball has been the Gefilte Fish Gala, an event with no admission charge but only a requested donation, which is usually also held on Christmas Eve unless the night of the 24th coincides with Friday night, the Jewish sabbath.\n\nBeginning in 2010, an informal group of Washington, DC, Jewish young professionals decided to organize another competitor to the Matzo Ball, the Falafel Frenzy, with all proceeds going to charity. The event has been successful in collecting money for local charities and continues to be held.\n\nAtlanta, which had previously hosted an annual \"Matzah Ball\" unrelated to the SYJP event, has been the home of competing events for both mainstream audiences, such as the 'Bagel Bash', and niche groups, such as the local NCJW section's 'Santa Klutz Ball' for older singles.\n\nFor a number of years, the Houston JCC sponsored that city's annual 'Bagel Ball' Christmas Eve party, which is now run independently.\n\nHeeb Magazine sponsored and organized its 'Heebonism' events in various U.S. cities on Christmas Eve, targeted toward a \"hip\" audience seeking an alternative to events like the Matzo Ball, beginning in the late 2000s. By 2009, Heebonism had expanded to five cities nationally. Nationally, Heebonism organizers sought to offer a more \"culturally substantive\" and non-conformist event, with activities including \"strip dreidel\", video games, and light food. At the Los Angeles/Palm Springs Heebonism in 2009, strip dreidel was led by porn stars James Deen and Joanna Angel. In Denver, the local Heebonism event had its origin as a private pre-party for those seeking alternative entertainment before heading to the Matzo Ball. By 2013, Heebonism had retrenched and Heebonism events outside of Denver apparently had been eliminated.\n\nOther major cities have homegrown and well-attended Christmas Eve events that were established long before the Matzo Ball or The Ball entered the local scene.\n\nThese include Seattle's Latkepalooza, Cincinnati's Latkapalooza San Francisco's The Latke Ball, Tampa's Vodka Latke, Phoenix's Mazelpalooza, Dallas's Matzah Ball, and Austin's Mazel Ball, all of which are sponsored by their respective Jewish Federation's young professionals division.\n\nChristmas Eve events run by local Jewish Community Centers, typically by their young adults division, include Chicago's Matzo Bash (in conjunction with Taglit - Birthright Israel, FIDF, and other groups), Orland's Twelve24, Dallas's Matzah Ball (in conjunction with the local Federation young adults division), and Las Vegas's 'Light it Up' (previously ran for 17 years as the Bagel Ball).\n\nCleveland's local young professionals group co-sponsors with FIDF the annual Wrap Up Bash.\n\nSchmooz-a-Palooza was the long-running Los Angeles counterpart to the Matzo Ball, and was held for the 20th straight year in 2013. It originated with Stu & Lew Productions, which was acquired by JDate in 2006. The event evolved over the years from a social mixer to a party atmosphere, bringing together, for example, southern Californians who had not seen each other since their younger years in Jewish communal settings. It was also a noted opportunity for reconnecting and romance.\n\nBy the late 2000s and early 2010s, Schmooz-a-Palooza had become integrated into the Matzo Ball network of nationwide events and faced competition from other local events, including a local young Jewish professionals charitable group's directly competing mixer and a Jewish comedy night at the Laugh Factory, along with more loosely organized events, such as music performances by Jewish musicians and informal socializing and drinking organized by local Moishe Houses.\n\nBy 2014, the Stu & Lew Productions and 'Schmooz-a-Palooza' brands appeared to no longer be in use for Christmas Eve parties and to have been retired.\n\nPrior to Rudnick's organizing of the Matzo Ball in Boston in 1987 and expansion into other cities, Jewish organizations in other cities had used similar names for their own Christmas Eve singles events.\n\nThe Jewish Community Center of Dallas organizes its annual \"Matzoh Ball\" or \"Matzah Ball\" event, having begun in either 1981 or 1984. The event continues to be run each Christmas Eve under that name, now jointly organized by the JCC of Dallas and the local Jewish Federation young adults division, and is unaffiliated with the Matzo Ball event and Rudnick.\n\nAtlanta also had its own \"Matzah Ball\" for many years.\n\nAn identically named Matzoball event has been held on Christmas Eve in Toronto since 1988. As of 2013, it is sponsored by the Canadian unit of the Jewish National Fund and organized by Magen Boys Entertainment. The event organizers have indicated their desire to expand to other cities in Canada, particularly Montreal and Vancouver, in future years.\n\nRudnick and SYJP have also come into conflict with organizers of other events named similarly to Matzo Ball, including Seattle's Jewish Federation young leadership division, which changed it event name from Matzah Ball to Latkapalooza in 2004 after receiving a cease-and-desist letter from Rudnik's attorneys. The Federation's attorney's insisted that because of the lapse in SYJP's federal trademark registration for the term in the late 1990s, and because the Federation had been using the term locally during that period, they were entitled to continue to do so.\n\nThe Jewish Federation of Greater Los Angeles entertainment division organized a late spring \"Matzah Bowl\" event for a number of years, beginning in 1996. In Atlanta, the promoter of the 'Bagel Bash' organized an early spring bowling function for singles called the \"Matzah Bowl\". A 2009 Christmas Eve musical event at Brooklyn Bowl, co-sponsored by Israel's New York Consulate General, was dubbed \"The Matzah Bowl\". The event derived its name in part from its location in a Brooklyn bowling alley.\n\nSmaller Jewish community entities have also used variations on the \"Matzo Bowl\" name for a variety of events, including for knowledge competitions held by individual synagogues and fundraising events organized by chapters of Alpha Epsilon Pi.\n\nThe Greater Kansas City Council of BBYO and its AZA Nordaunian chapter sponsor a large annual teen dance called the Matzo Ball, which celebrated its 75th anniversary in April 2010.\n\nThe Matzo Ball and similar events have been subject to mild criticism that the events are \"meet markets\" or, more punningly, \"[kosher] meat markets.\" Women attendees tend to dress inappropriately in a revealing manner while men at the event are liable to use awkward pickup lines and noticeably prowl.\n\n"}
{"id": "43349586", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43349586", "title": "National Centre for Knowledge on Men's Violence against Women", "text": "National Centre for Knowledge on Men's Violence against Women\n\nThe National Centre for Knowledge on Men's Violence against Women (, abbreviated NCK) is a Swedish knowledge and resource centre at Uppsala University, founded in 2006. NCK is working on behalf of the Government of Sweden to raise awareness at the national level of men's violence against women, and develops new methods for the treatment of abused women. NCK has a mandate to research, educate, compile and spread information. In 2008, its operations expanded to include violence and oppression in the name of honour, and violence in same-sex relationships.\n\nThe centre is part of Uppsala University, organised directly under the rector, and managed by Professor Gun Heimer.\n\nSince 2007, the centre have been operating a Government funded national helpline for women who have been subjected to threats and violence (). The telephone counseling is open 24-hour, toll-free, and the call does not appear on the telephone bill. Staff at the helpline provide support, practical advice, information about the healthcare system and how to report crimes. The staff consist of social workers, midwives and nurses with at least five years of professional experience; receiving on average 60 calls a day.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25904199", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25904199", "title": "National Theatre in Niš", "text": "National Theatre in Niš\n\nThe National Theatre ( or \"\") is a theater in Serbia, that was founded in 1887 as \"Sinđelić\" Theatre, and reorganized in 1906 as National Theatre, following the completion of new theatre building.\n\nThe theater is located on Sinđelić Square, in Niš, Serbia. \n"}
{"id": "415700", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=415700", "title": "Nigel Farage", "text": "Nigel Farage\n\nNigel Paul Farage (; born 3 April 1964) is a British politician, broadcaster and political analyst. He has been a Member of the European Parliament (MEP) for the South East England constituency since 1999 and is a Vice-Chairman of the pro-Brexit organization Leave Means Leave. \n\nHe is best known as the former leader of the UK Independence Party (UKIP) from 2006 to 2009 and again from 2010 to 2016. He co-chairs the Europe of Freedom and Direct Democracy (formerly \"Europe of Freedom and Democracy\") group. A prominent Eurosceptic in the UK, he has been noted for his speeches in the European Parliament, and has strongly criticised the euro currency.\n\nFarage was a founding member of UKIP, having left the Conservative Party in 1992 after the signing of the Maastricht Treaty. After unsuccessfully campaigning in European and Westminster parliamentary elections for UKIP since 1994, he was elected MEP for South East England in the 1999 European Parliament election. He was subsequently re-elected in 2004, 2009 and, most recently, at the 2014 European parliament election.\n\nIn September 2006, Farage became the UKIP Leader and led the party through the 2009 European Parliament Election, when it won the second highest share of the popular vote, defeating Labour and the Liberal Democrats with over two million votes. He stepped down in November 2009 to concentrate on contesting Buckingham, the constituency of the Speaker, John Bercow, at the 2010 general election, coming third. In November 2010, Farage successfully stood in the 2010 UKIP leadership contest, following the resignation of Lord Pearson of Rannoch.\n\nFarage announced his resignation as leader when he did not win the South Thanet seat in Kent at the 2015 general election, but his resignation was rejected and he remained in his post. In June 2016, Farage was a prominent supporter of the successful campaign for a vote in favour of leaving the EU in the UK EU membership referendum. On 4 July 2016, Farage again announced his resignation as leader of UKIP, triggering a leadership election. Diane James was elected to succeed him, but she resigned as leader after just 18 days and Farage became interim leader on 5 October 2016. A second leadership election was held in November, which was won by Paul Nuttall, who thus succeeded Farage. Farage was ranked second in \"The Daily Telegraph\"'s Top 100 most influential right-wingers poll in October 2013, behind Prime Minister David Cameron. He was also named \"Briton of the Year\" by \"The Times\" in 2014. In 2017, Farage began contributing to the American television network Fox News. In 2018, Farage joined Leave Means Leave.\n\nFarage was born in Downe in Kent, England, the son of Barbara (\"née\" Stevens) and Guy Justus Oscar Farage. The Farage name comes from a distant Huguenot ancestor. One of his great-grandfathers was born to German parents who migrated to London in the 19th century. His grandfather, Private Harry Farage, fought and was wounded in the First World War. His father was a stockbroker who worked in the City of London. A 2012 BBC Radio 4 profile described Guy Farage as an alcoholic who left the family home when Nigel was five years old. In 1971, Guy Farage gave up alcohol and entered the antiques trade, having lost his Stock Exchange position; the next year, endorsed by friends, he returned to the trading floor at the new Stock Exchange Tower on Threadneedle Street.\n\nFrom 1975 to 1982, Farage was educated at Dulwich College, a fee-paying independent school in south London. In his autobiography he pays tribute to the careers advice he received there from England Test cricketer John Dewes, \"who must have spotted that I was quite ballsy, probably good on a platform, unafraid of the limelight, a bit noisy and good at selling things\".\n\nOn leaving school in 1982, he decided not to go to university, but to work in the City, trading commodities at the London Metal Exchange. Initially, he joined the American commodity operation of brokerage firm Drexel Burnham Lambert, transferring to Crédit Lyonnais Rouse in 1986. He joined Refco in 1994, and Natexis Metals in 2003.\n\nFarage was active in the Conservative Party from his school days, having seen a visit to his school by Enoch Powell and Keith Joseph. In 1981, an English teacher, Chloe Deakin, wrote to the head teacher of Dulwich College, David Emms, asking him to reconsider his decision to appoint Farage as a prefect, citing concerns over Farage's alleged 'fascist' views. Farage later stated that some teachers were hostile to him because he was an admirer of Enoch Powell. Farage said: \"Any accusation I was ever involved in far right politics is utterly untrue.\" He voted for the Green Party in 1989 because of what he saw as their then \"sensible\" and Eurosceptic policies. He left the Conservatives in 1992 in protest at Prime Minister John Major's government's signing of the Treaty on European Union at Maastricht. He was a founding member of UKIP in 1993.\n\nFarage was elected to the European Parliament in 1999 and re-elected in 2004, 2009 and 2014. In 1999 the BBC spent four months filming a documentary about his European election campaign but did not air it. Farage, then head of the UKIP's South East office, asked for a video and had friends make copies which were sold for £5 through the UKIP's magazine. Surrey Trading Standards investigated and Farage admitted the offence. Farage is presently the leader of the 24-member UKIP contingent in the European Parliament, and co-leader of the multinational Eurosceptic group, Europe of Freedom and Direct Democracy. Farage was ranked the fifth-most influential MEP by Politico in 2016, who described him as \"one of the two most effective speakers in the chamber\".\n\nOn 18 November 2004, Farage announced in the European Parliament that Jacques Barrot, then French Commissioner-designate, had been barred from elected office in France for two years, after being convicted in 2000 of embezzling £2 million from government funds and diverting it into the coffers of his party. He said that French President Jacques Chirac had granted Barrot amnesty; initial BBC reports said that, under French law, it was perhaps illegal to mention that conviction. The prohibition in question applies only to French officials in the course of their duties. The President of the Parliament, Josep Borrell, enjoined him to retract his comments under threat of \"legal consequences\". The following day, it was confirmed that Barrot had received an eight-month suspended jail sentence in the case, and that this had been quickly expunged by the amnesty decided by Chirac and his parliamentary majority. The Socialist and Liberal groups in the European Parliament then joined forces with UKIP in demanding the resignation of Barrot for failing to disclose the conviction during his confirmation hearings. \n\nIn early 2005, Farage requested that the European Commission disclose where the individual Commissioners had spent their holidays. The Commission did not provide the information requested, on the basis that the Commissioners had a right of privacy. The German newspaper \"Die Welt\" reported that the President of the European Commission, José Manuel Barroso, had spent a week on the yacht of the Greek shipping billionaire Spiros Latsis. It emerged soon afterwards that this had occurred a month before the Commission under Barroso's predecessor Romano Prodi approved 10.3 million euros of Greek state aid for Latsis's shipping company. It also became known that Peter Mandelson, then the British EU Commissioner, had accepted a trip to Jamaica from an unrevealed source.\n\nFarage persuaded around 75 MEPs from across the political divide to back a motion of no confidence in Barroso, which would be sufficient to compel Barroso to appear before the European Parliament to be questioned on the issue. The motion was successfully tabled on 12 May 2005, and Barroso appeared before Parliament at a debate on 26 May 2005. The motion was heavily defeated. A Conservative MEP, Roger Helmer, was expelled from his group, the European People's Party – European Democrats (EPP-ED), in the middle of the debate by that group's leader Hans-Gert Pöttering as a result of his support for Farage's motion.\n\nOn 12 September 2006, Farage was elected leader of UKIP with 45 percent of the vote, 20 percentage points ahead of his nearest rival. He pledged to bring discipline to the party and to maximise UKIP's representation in local, parliamentary and other elections. In a \"PM\" programme interview on BBC Radio 4 that day he pledged to end the public perception of UKIP as a single-issue party and to work with allied politicians in the Better Off Out campaign, committing himself not to stand against the MPs who have signed up to that campaign.\n\nIn his maiden speech to the UKIP conference, on 8 October 2006, Farage told delegates that the party was \"at the centre-ground of British public opinion\" and the \"real voice of opposition\". He said: \"We've got three social democratic parties in Britain – Labour, Lib Dem and Conservative are virtually indistinguishable from each other on nearly all the main issues\" and \"you can't put a cigarette paper between them and that is why there are nine million people who don't vote now in general elections that did back in 1992.\"\n\nAt 10pm on 19 October 2006, Farage took part in a three-hour live interview and phone-in with James Whale on the national radio station talkSPORT. Four days later, Whale announced on his show his intention to stand as UKIP's candidate in the 2008 London Mayoral Election. Farage said that Whale \"not only has guts, but an understanding of what real people think\". Whale later decided not to stand and UKIP was represented by Gerard Batten.\n\nFarage stood again for the UKIP leadership in 2010 (having stood down the year before, to focus on his unsuccessful campaign for the Buckingham seat) after his successor Lord Pearson had stood down, and on 5 November 2010 it was announced he had won the leadership contest.\n\nIn May 2014, Farage led UKIP to win the European Parliament election with 4,376,635 votes, the first time a UK political party other than Labour or Conservatives had won a national election in over 100 years. Farage was returned as MEP for the South East region, a seat he has represented since 1999.\n\nAs an MEP, Farage leads the Europe of Freedom and Direct Democracy grouping in the European Parliament.\n\nOn 8 May 2015, Farage resigned as leader of UKIP after he failed to win the seat of Thanet South in the general election held the previous day, although he kept open the possibility of re-entering the ensuing leadership contest. In his autobiography, \"The Purple Revolution\", he had written:\n\nOn 11 May, it was announced that Farage would continue to serve as the party's leader, with the BBC reporting: \"Party chairman Steve Crowther said the national executive committee believed the election campaign had been a ‘great success’ and members had ‘unanimously’ rejected Mr Farage's letter of resignation\". Interviewed about his continued leadership by the BBC the following day, Farage said: \"I resigned. I said I'd resign. I turned up to the NEC meeting with letter in hand fully intending to carry that through. They unanimously said they didn't want me to do that, they presented me with petitions, signatures, statements from candidates saying it would be a bad thing for UKIP. So I left the meeting, went and sat in darkened room to think about what to do, and decided for the interest of the party I would accept their kind offer for me to stay and tear up the letter.\" He added that he would consider standing for parliament again should a by-election be called in a Labour-held seat.\n\nFarage resigned as UKIP leader on 4 July 2016 with the following comment: \"During the <nowiki>[</nowiki>Brexit<nowiki>]</nowiki> referendum I said I wanted my country back … now I want my life back\" and added that this resignation was final: \"I won’t be changing my mind again, I can promise you\", apparently referring to his two previous resignations (in 2009 and 2015).\n\nFarage had unsuccessfully contested British parliamentary elections for UKIP five times, both before and after his election as an MEP in 1999. Under the 2002 European Union decision to forbid MEPs from holding a dual mandate, if he were to be elected to the House of Commons, he would have to resign his seat as MEP.\n\nWhen he contested the Bromley & Chislehurst constituency in a May 2006 by-election, following the death of Eurosceptic Conservative MP Eric Forth, Farage came third, winning 8 per cent of the vote, beating the Labour Party candidate. This was the second-best by-election result recorded by UKIP out of 25 results, and the first time since the Liverpool Walton by-election in 1991 that a party in government had been pushed into fourth place in a parliamentary by-election on mainland Britain. \n\nCharles, Prince of Wales was invited to speak to the European Parliament on 14 February 2008; in his speech he called for EU leadership in the battle against climate change. During the standing ovation that followed, Farage was the only MEP to remain seated, and he went on to describe the Prince's advisers as \"naïve and foolish at best.\" Farage continued: \"How can somebody like Prince Charles be allowed to come to the European Parliament at this time to announce he thinks it should have more powers? It would have been better for the country he wants to rule one day if he had stayed home and tried to persuade Gordon Brown to give the people the promised referendum on the Treaty of Lisbon.\" The leader of the UK Labour Party's MEPs, Gary Titley, accused Farage of anti-Royalism. Titley said: \"I was embarrassed and disgusted when the Leader of the UK Independence Party, Nigel Farage, remained firmly seated during the lengthy standing ovation Prince Charles received. I had not realised Mr Farage's blind adherence to right-wing politics involved disloyalty and discourtesy to the Royal Family. He should be thoroughly ashamed of himself and should apologise to the British people he represents.\"\n\nIn May 2009, \"The Observer\" reported a Foreign Press Association speech given by Farage in which he had said that over his period as a Member of the European Parliament he had received a total of £2 million of taxpayers' money in staff, travel, and other expenses. In response, Farage said that in future all UKIP MEPs would provide monthly expense details.\n\nAfter the speech of Herman Van Rompuy on 24 February 2010 to the European Parliament, Farage – to protests from other MEPs – addressed the former Belgian Prime Minister and first long-term President of the European Council saying that he had the \"charisma of a damp rag and the appearance of low grade bank clerk\". Farage questioned the legitimacy of Van Rompuy's appointment, asking, \"Who are you? I'd never heard of you, nobody in Europe had ever heard of you.\" He also asserted that Van Rompuy's \"intention [is] to be the quiet assassin of European democracy and of the European nation states\". Van Rompuy commented afterwards, \"There was one contribution that I can only hold in contempt, but I'm not going to comment further.\" After refusing to apologise for behaviour that was, in the words of the President of the European Parliament, Jerzy Buzek, \"inappropriate, unparliamentary and insulting to the dignity of the House\", Farage was reprimanded and had his right to ten days' allowance (expenses) \"docked\".\n\nBuzek said after his meeting with Farage:\nI defend absolutely Mr Farage's right to disagree about the policy or institutions of the Union, but not to personally insult our guests in the European Parliament or the country from which they may come... I myself fought for free speech as the absolute cornerstone of a democratic society. But with freedom comes responsibility – in this case, to respect the dignity of others and of our institutions. I am disappointed by Mr Farage's behaviour, which sits ill with the great parliamentary tradition of his own country. I cannot accept this sort of behaviour in the European Parliament. I invited him to apologise, but he declined to do so. I have therefore – as an expression of the seriousness of the matter – rescinded his right to ten days' daily allowance as a Member.\nQuestioned by Camilla Long of \"The Times\", Farage described his speech: \"it wasn't abusive, it was right.\"\n\nOn 4 September 2009, Farage resigned as the UKIP's leader to focus on his campaign to become Member of Parliament for Buckingham at Westminster in the 2010 general election. He later told \"The Times\" journalist Camilla Long that UKIP internal fights took up far too much time.\n\nFarage stood against sitting Buckingham MP, John Bercow, the newly elected Speaker of the House of Commons, despite the convention that the Speaker, as a political neutral, is not normally challenged in his or her bid for re-election by any of the major parties.\n\nFarage came third with 8,401 votes. Bercow was re-elected and in second place with 10,331 votes was John Stevens, a former Conservative MEP who campaigned as an independent accompanied by \"Flipper the Dolphin\" (a reference to MPs flipping second homes).\n\nOn 6 May 2010, the morning of the election, Farage was travelling in a two-seater PZL-104 Wilga aircraft with a pro-UKIP banner attached, when the plane crashed. Farage suffered injuries that were described as non-life-threatening. Although his injuries were originally described as minor, his sternum and ribs were broken and his lung punctured. The Air Accidents Investigation Branch (AAIB) report said that the aeroplane was towing a banner, which caught in the tailplane, forcing the nose down.\n\nOn 1 December 2010, Justin Adams, the pilot of the aircraft involved in the accident, was charged with threatening to kill Farage in a separate incident. He was also charged with threatening to kill an AAIB official involved in the investigation into the accident. In April 2011, the pilot was found guilty of making death threats. The judge said that the defendant was \"clearly extremely disturbed\" at the time the offences happened, adding \"He is a man who does need help. If I can find a way of giving him help I will.\"\n\nUKIP forgot to put their party name on their candidate's ballot paper for the London mayoral election, 2012, Laurence Webb appearing as \"a fresh choice for London\". Farage described the mistake as an internal error. Interviewed the following Sunday by Andrew Neil and asked about \"the game plan\", Farage welcomed the \"average 13% vote\" across the country, and stated that the party was preparing for county council elections in 2013, European elections in 2014 and a general election in 2015.\n\nAsked what would happen to UKIP if the Conservatives made a manifesto commitment to a referendum on EU membership, Farage said they had already failed to honour a \"cast iron\" commitment to a referendum on the Lisbon Treaty. Challenging Farage's viewpoint, Neil said that UKIP aspired to come top of the European elections, but while UKIP wanted to join the big time they were still seen as \"unprofessional, amateur and even unacceptable\". In an interview, Farage described Baroness Warsi as \"the lowest grade Chairman the Tory Party has ever had\". He was voted politician of the year by the online service MSN.\n\nIn May 2013, Farage led UKIP to its best-ever performance in a UK election. The party received 23 per cent of the vote in the local elections, winning 147 council seats, and placing it only 2 points behind the governing Conservative Party and 9 points ahead of the Liberal Democrats. Farage was mobbed by well-wishers as he made his way to his favourite pub, the Marquis of Granby, for a celebratory drink. He called the victory \"a real sea change in British politics\". Subsequently, polling agency Survation found that 22 per cent of voters intended to support UKIP in the 2015 General Election.\n\nIn May 2013, Farage was interrupted by protesters during a press conference in the Canon's Gait pub on Edinburgh's Royal Mile. The demonstration was organised by groups including the Radical Independence Campaign and saw protesters vocally accuse Farage of being \"racist\", \"fascist\", and a \"homophobe\", and tell him to \"go back to London\". Farage made attempts to leave by taxi but was prevented from doing so, and was eventually taken away in an armoured police van while protesters continued to shout. He was trying to raise the profile of UKIP in Scotland ahead of the Aberdeen Donside by-election; the party at that point had no representation in the country, and took 0.91 per cent of the vote in the previous election though it won its first Scottish MEP the following year. During an interview with BBC's \"Good Morning Scotland\" radio show, Farage labelled the protesters \"yobbo fascist scum\" before hanging up, stating that the questions regarding the incident in Edinburgh were insulting and unpleasant.\n\nIn a second visit to Edinburgh in May 2014 Farage correctly predicted that UKIP would win a Scottish seat in the European Parliament elections. Two hundred protesters heckled and booed him. Thirty police in two vans were needed to preserve order.\n\nIn the European Parliament elections in 2014, Farage led UKIP to win the highest share of the vote. It was the first time a political party other than the Labour Party and Conservative Party had won the popular vote in a national election since the 1906 general election. It was also the first time a party other than the Labour and Conservatives won the largest number of seats in a national election since the December 1910 general election.\n\nIn June 2014, Farage declared £205,603 for gifts over 10 years, including free use of a barn for his constituency office, which had been declared in the EU register in Brussels each year. The Electoral Commission said that the gifts should have been also declared in the UK within 30 days of receipt and fined Farage £200.\n\nIn October 2013, Farage announced on the BBC's \"The Andrew Marr Show\" that he would stand for election as an MP at the United Kingdom general election, 2015, most likely contesting either Folkestone and Hythe or South Thanet; meanwhile he stated that his duty and preference was to focus on his current role as an MEP.\n\nIn August 2014, Farage was selected as the UKIP candidate for South Thanet following local hustings. On 12 September 2014, he appeared at a pro-union rally with Scottish UKIP MEP David Coburn ahead of Scotland's independence referendum.\n\nIn October 2014, Farage was invited to take part in prospective Leaders' debates on BBC, ITV, Channel 4 and Sky ahead of the 2015 General Election. UKIP indicated that it would consider taking legal action were the party excluded, in contravention of established broadcast media rules, from televised Party Leaders' debates in advance of the 2015 General Election. The 7-way Leaders' TV debate was broadcast by ITV on 2 April 2015 from MediaCityUK, Salford Quays. Of three polls taken immediately afterwards, the ComRes poll had Farage as joint winner, alongside Labour's Ed Miliband and Conservative David Cameron.\n\nIn March 2015, Farage declared in his book \"The Purple Revolution\" that he would step down as UKIP leader should he not be elected as an MP; he stated his belief that it would not be \"credible\" for him to lead UKIP without sitting in parliament at Westminster.\n\nOn 22 March 2015, Farage was targeted by anti-UKIP activists who chased him and his family from a pub lunch in Downe, Kent. His daughters ran away to hide and were later found to be safe. Farage, when asked what he thought about the incident, called the protesters \"scum\".\n\nFarage was unsuccessful in his bid to become MP for South Thanet although he came second (beating Labour by over 4,000 votes), reduced the Conservative majority to less than 3,000, and gained over 32% of the vote. He subsequently announced his resignation as the leader of UKIP, citing that he is a \"man of his word\" since he promised to resign if he did not win his seat. However, on 11 May 2015, the party chairman said they would not accept Mr Farage's post-election resignation because the party's \"election campaign had been a great success\".\n\nA row subsequently developed within the party, in which MEP and campaign chief Patrick O'Flynn described Farage's public image as \"snarling, thin-skinned, aggressive\" and said he risked turning the party into a \"personality cult\". O'Flynn accused Farage of paying too much attention to advisors that \"would like to take UKIP in the direction of some hard-right, ultra-aggressive American Tea Party-type movement\", singling out the NHS and gun control liberalisation as particular issues. Raheem Kassam, Farage's chief of staff and editor of Breitbart London was later sacked as a result, whilst O'Flynn insisted he continued to support Farage as party leader. Farage also faced a number of calls from senior figures within the party to stand down.\n\nFollowing the election a UKIP spokesman acknowledged that after a series of threatening attacks on Farage it had sent an informant into the Thanet branch of the protest organisation Stand Up to UKIP, stating \"in order to provide reasonable security it was of course necessary to have information from the inside\", an approach he said was used by \"a great many security operations tasked with protecting the safety and wellbeing of a targeted individual\". According to \"The Guardian\", the informant is alleged to have actively encouraged members to commit criminal damage. Farage had said he was the victim of \"trade union-funded activists\" who were inciting vandalism.\n\nIn January 2016 Farage told \"The Mail on Sunday\" that he believed his car had been tampered with in October 2015, as he had been forced to stop when his car's wheel nuts came loose. He reported that he had spoken with the French police but did not wish to pursue the matter any further. \"The Times\", however, said Farage's story was untrue, and that Dunkirk prosecutors had no reason to suspect foul play or the police would have started an investigation. The owner of the breakdown garage concerned had said the problem was probably shoddy repair work, but he had been unable to communicate directly with Farage. Farage later said he had made a \"terrible, terrible mistake\" in speaking to journalists and that a Sunday newspaper had misreported his claims of tampering as an assassination attempt.\n\nAlthough previously denouncing tax avoidance in a speech to the European Parliament, in which he attacked European bureaucrats who earned £100,000 a year and paid 12 per cent tax under EU rules, Farage said in 2013 that he had hired a tax advisor to set up the Farage Family Educational Trust 1654, a trust that Farage said was used \"for inheritance purposes\", on the Isle of Man. Farage later described this \"as standard practice\", but insisted he \"decided I didn't want it. I never ever used it. The Isle of Man is not a tax haven.\" Farage has since said that this was a mistake, in part because it cost him too much money, but has criticised the political discourse surrounding tax avoidance as a \"race to the bottom\". The BBC noted that \"The Isle of Man was one of the UK's crown dependencies which signed an agreement on corporate disclosure at a recent meeting with David Cameron amid claims that individuals and firms are using offshore locations to reduce their tax liabilities\", adding that the Isle of Man rejects any allegations that they are used for the purpose of tax avoidance.\n\nFarage said in 2014 that most legal tax avoidance was \"okay\" after he was questioned on why £45,000 of his income was paid into his private company rather than a personal bank account, saying that criticism of his actions was \"ridiculous\". In the wake of the Panama Papers leak, Farage also said that the possibility of him releasing his tax return was a \"big no\" as \"I think in this country what people earn is regarded as a private matter\", and criticised David Cameron as hypocritical, especially with regard to his past comments about Jimmy Carr's tax avoidance.\n\nAlthough he was a member of the European Parliament, Farage campaigned to leave the EU as a key figurehead for the British exit from the EU in 2016. Polls on the day of the vote suggested defeat for the leave campaign, though they were successful with 52 per cent of the vote. Jean-Claude Juncker promptly told all UKIP members to leave the Parliament. Farage also made the suggestion of a future second referendum in an interview with the \"Daily Mirror\" if Brexit lost but the result was closer than 52-48.\n\nOn 28 June 2016, Farage made a speech in the European Parliament in which he claimed that a hypothetical failure for the EU to forge a trade deal with an exiting UK would \"be far worse for you than it would be for us\", to heckling and laughing by Parliament members. He insulted his fellow MEPs, claiming that \"virtually none\" of them had ever had done \"a proper job\" in their lives. Media around the world covered Farage's speech, including his comment: \"... when I came here 17 years ago, and I said that I wanted to lead a campaign to get Britain to leave the European Union, you all laughed at me. Well I have to say, you're not laughing now are you?\" and his prediction that Britain will not be the only country to leave the EU. In response, Guy Verhofstadt compared Farage's referendum posters with Nazi propaganda and credited the Brexit campaign with causing a multi-billion loss in the stock exchange. Explicitly addressing Farage, Verhofstadt added, \"... Ok. Let's be positive. Finally, we're going to get rid of the biggest waste in the budget of the (European) Union, that we have paid for 17 years, your salary.\"\n\nFarage resigned as leader of the United Kingdom Independence Party on 4 July 2016, saying that: \"It's right that I should now stand aside as leader. What I said during the referendum campaign is I want my country back. What I'm saying today is I want my life back. And it begins right now\" and \"I have never been, and I have never wanted to be, a career politician.\" Jean-Claude Juncker, President of the European Commission, described Farage as a \"retro-nationalist\", Caroline Lucas, Green Party MP for Brighton Pavilion, said that his legacy is \"toxic and unforgivable\" and that \"He has used his position to whip up hatred against migrants and divert attention from the real challenges this country is facing\", and former Labour Party leader, Ed Miliband, said: \"It's a legacy of stirring up division. I am not sorry to see Nigel Farage leave the political scene\". However, Paul Nuttall, a UKIP MEP, tweeted that Farage's \"drive and belief shook establishment politics to its core and gave us a voice\" and Suzanne Evans, former Deputy Chairman of UKIP, said that Farage's resignation surprised her, but \"there is room still in Britain for UKIP\". Writing in \"The Spectator\", after this resignation when it was thought he was leaving politics, the journalist Rod Liddle described Farage as: \"The most important British politician of the last decade and the most successful. His resignation leaves a hole in our political system. With enormous intelligence and chutzpah and a refreshingly unorthodox approach, he built UKIP up from nothing to become established as our third largest party and succeeded in his overriding ambition – to see the UK vote to leave the European Union.\"\n\nFollowing a legal challenge to the use of the Royal Prerogative to invoke article 50, Farage appeared on television with Gina Miller. Miller stated that \"politicians had lied all the way through\" and the Referendum act clearly said that the result was advisory. Farage also agreed that it was advisory. Farage was appearing on the Andrew Marr Show where he was described by the host as a lifelong political \"insurgent.\" Although he talked of a peaceful protest he warned of unprecedented political anger if Parliament blocked Brexit. Miller pointed out that parliamentary democracy required parliament to debate issues and that Farage had spent the whole Brexit campaign arguing for parliamentary sovereignty. Calling his warnings \"the politics of the gutter\", Tim Farron said the British judges had merely interpreted British law and that fortunately Farage was the only person talking about taking to the streets. Miller has previously called Farage irresponsible and has blamed him and the tabloid media for death threats against her. She stated in November 2016 that she would not take legal action against those who had threatened her.\n\nOn 7 November 2016, Farage announced he would lead a 100,000 strong march to the Supreme court timed for when it starts hearing the Government appeal. On 27 November 2016, it was reported the march was being cancelled out of concerns it could be hijacked by the far-right groups English Defence League and British National Party. The next day, Paul Nuttall became the new UKIP party leader after Farage decided to step aside to strengthen his relationship with US President-elect Donald Trump.\n\nIn a May 2016 interview with Robert Peston, Farage said that, whilst he had reservations on the views and character of 2016 Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump, if he were an eligible US voter he would vote for Trump in 2016 presidential election, to prevent Hillary Clinton becoming president. In July 2016, Farage visited the Republican convention in Cleveland with his aide and office manager George Cottrell. Both Farage and Cottrell appeared on American television and engaged in discussions with Trump's aides before Cottrell was arrested by the FBI on 21 federal counts of fraud, money laundering and extortion. Farage \"was unaware of Cottrell's alleged illegal activities and his arrest by the FBI came as a shock.\" Cottrell's arrest left Farage unable to access his personal diary. Cottrell ultimately pleaded guilty to one count of wire fraud as part of a plea agreement with U.S. federal prosecutors and was sentenced to eight months in U.S. federal prison and was fined $30,000; the crime had been committed before Cottrell joined UKIP.\n\nIn August 2016, Farage and fellow Brexiteers Andy Wigmore and Arron Banks met Trump for the first time at a high-dollar campaign fundraiser in Jackson, Mississippi. They were invited to the event by staffers for Mississippi governor Phil Bryant while attending the GOP convention. Afterwards, Trump invited them to his campaign rally that night. Trump asked Farage to speak at the rally and introduced him to the crowd as \"Mr. Brexit\".\n\nIn October 2016, Farage praised Trump for \"dominating\" Hillary Clinton, comparing him to a silverback gorilla. Following revelations of a 2005 audio recording in which Trump made lewd remarks about women, Farage said that Trump's comments were \"ugly\" but described them as \"alpha male boasting\" and stated that women also made remarks they would not want to see reported. Farage's comments prompted several senior UKIP members to express concern privately, and prompted public condemnation of Farage from two UKIP MEPs, Jane Collins and William Dartmouth. As more publicity appeared about Trump's alleged groping and as the criticisms increased, Farage said he disagreed with Trump's comments about groping women and his comments on Muslim immigration.\n\nFarage is reported to have had close links with Trump's chief strategist, Steve Bannon, since at least 2014, when Bannon scheduled meetings for Farage with right-wing figures in Washington. In his book, \"\", Farage described Bannon as \"my sort of chap.\"\n\nAfter Trump's victory, Farage said that he \"couldn't be happier\" and in the same interview referred to outgoing president Barack Obama a \"loathsome individual\" and \"that Obama creature\", remarks which prompted criticism. Labour MP John Woodcock criticised Farage's comments, saying they had \"clear racist undertones.\" Farage was the first British politician to speak to Trump after his election, meeting with Trump in his eponymous Manhattan tower.\n\nIn November 2016, after becoming president-elect, Trump publicly suggested, via Twitter post, that the UK government name Farage as British ambassador to the United States. Trump's expression of a preference for a foreign nation's ambassador was \"a startling break with diplomatic protocol\" that was unprecedented in recent US history. The British government rejected the suggestion, with a Downing Street spokesman and Foreign Secretary Boris Johnson stressing that there was no vacancy in the position.\n\nOn 20 January 2017, the day of Trump's presidential inauguration, US news channel Fox News announced it had hired Farage as a commentator. He has since provided political analysis for both the main Fox News channel and its sister channel Fox Business Network. Farage also began hosting a talk show on the British radio station LBC for four nights a week.\n\nFarage was listed as a person of interest by the FBI in their investigation into possible Russian interference in the 2016 Presidential election. He responded, \"I consider it extremely doubtful that I could be a person of interest to the FBI as I have no connections to Russia.”\n\nIn 2017, Farage called for the departure of UKIP's only MP, Douglas Carswell. He said in \"The Daily Telegraph\": \"I think there is little future for UKIP with him staying inside this party. The time for him to go is now.\" There was reportedly controversy within the party over whether Carswell had tried to prevent Farage receiving a knighthood. It was reported the MP had suggested Farage should instead be given an OBE \"for services to headline writers\".\n\nOn 20 April 2017, Farage announced that he would not contest the 2017 general election. He said that he believed he could further advance his version of Brexit as a leader of a group in the European Parliament.\n\nFarage initially endorsed Nicolas Dupont-Aignan of Debout la France, another party of the Alliance for Direct Democracy in Europe, and later supported Marine Le Pen of the National Front for the second round of the French presidential election. Farage said that the basis for his endorsement of Le Pen was because he believed that she would be more sympathetic to the UK following Brexit, as opposed to the pro-European Emmanuel Macron.\n\nFarage endorsed Roy Moore in the United States Senate special election in Alabama. After numerous allegations of sexual misconduct were made against Moore, Farage publicly expressed his scepticism over the allegations. In May 2018, he expressed regret for having backed Moore, stating, \"I should have thought about the whole thing far more deeply than I did, and it was a mistake.\"\n\nIn May 2018, Farage addressed a fundraising event for the Democratic Unionist Party, with his main financial backer, Arron Banks, who accompanied Farage during the event, stating that he would support a bid by Farage to seek office as a DUP candidate after the end of his tenure as Member of the European Parliament in 2019.\n\nSince April 2018, Farage has been a strong advocate for U.S. President Donald Trump to receive the Nobel Peace Prize on the basis of his attempt to bring better diplomatic relations between North Korea and South Korea as well as better diplomatic relations between North Korea and the United States. As a member of the European Parliament, Farage expressed his desire to begin an official petition for Trump to receive the award.\n\nIn July 2018, Farage headlined a fundraiser for Lou Barletta, the Republican nominee in the 2018 United States Senate election in Pennsylvania.\n\nIn August 2018, Farage pledged his \"absolute and total support\" to the pro-Brexit organisation Leave Means Leave, and subsequently announced that he would be returning to full-time campaigning for \"the Brexit that people voted for\". Shortly after the announcement, he was made a Vice Chairman of the group.\n\nFrom taking office as a UKIP MEP in 1999, Farage has often voiced opposition to the \"euro project\". His argument is that \"a one-size-fits-all interest rate\" cannot work for countries with structurally different economies, often using the example of Greece and Germany to emphasise contrast.\n\nFarage strongly opposes the use of bailouts and says that \"buying your own debt with taxpayers' money\" will not solve the problem and that, \"if we do, the next debt crisis won't be a country ... it will be the European Central Bank itself\".\n\nOn the issue of welfare, Farage wants migrants to live in the UK for five years before being able to claim benefits, and for them to be ineligible for tax credits. He believes that tax avoidance is caused by \"punitive tax rates\", and wants \"fairer\" taxes as a way to prevent it.\n\nFarage declared himself in favour of the Alternative Vote system of May 2011, saying first-past-the-post would be a \"nightmare\" for UKIP. The party's stance has to be decided by its central policy-making committee, although Farage has expressed a preference for the AV+ system as it \"would retain the constituency link and then also the second ballot ensured there were no wasted votes\". After the 2015 general election, in which UKIP took a lower proportion of seats than votes, Farage called the first-past-the-post voting system (FPTP) \"totally bankrupt\", although Farage said: \"I completely lost faith in [FPTP] in 2005 when Blair was returned with a 60 seat majority on 36 per cent of the vote, or 22 per cent if you factor in low turnout.\"\n\nFarage has criticised the shutting down of coal-fired power stations and has opposed the policy of creating wind farms as covering \"Britain in ugly disgusting ghastly windmills\". In a speech made to the European parliament on 11 September 2013, Farage cited news, reported in several Rupert Murdoch-owned papers and the \"Daily Mail\", that the Arctic Sea ice cap had apparently grown from 2012 to 2013, saying that this was evidence of decades \"of Euro-federalism combined with an increasing Green obsession\".\n\nFarage takes an anti-prohibitionist position on recreational drugs. In an April 2014 phone-in interview hosted by \"The Daily Telegraph\" he argued that the War on Drugs had been lost \"many, many years ago\", stating that \"I hate drugs, I've never taken them myself, I hope I never do, but I just have a feeling that the criminalisation of all these drugs is actually not really helping British society.\" He argued in favour of a Royal Commission on drugs, which would explore all avenues as to how to legislate most effectively and deal with their related criminal and public health problems, including the possibility of their legalisation.\n\nAccording to Farage, the smoking ban in enclosed public spaces is \"silly and illiberal\"; he recommends separate smoking areas along the lines of some German states. He believes that banning things makes them more attractive to children, and said that \"Obesity is killing more people than smoking, you could ban chip shops, you could ban doughnuts. The point is we are big enough and ugly enough to make our own decisions\".\n\nIn his 2015 book, Farage reflected that based on his experiences, \"the NHS is so over-stretched that if you can afford private health care, you should take it, particularly for diagnostics and preventative medicine. In the NHS, the system is so battered and poorly run that unless you are really lucky, you will fall through the cracks. The NHS is, however, astonishingly good at critical care. But what testicular cancer taught me is that the NHS will probably let you down if you need screening, fast diagnosis and an operation at a time that suits you\". He supports reform within the NHS, saying that its resources have become stretched due to increased immigration, and blaming Labour for high costs of new hospitals built through private finance initiatives.\n\nFarage says that money which the NHS could spend on treating taxpayers with serious conditions is instead spent on recent immigrants with HIV, an opinion which has been controversial. A YouGov poll found 50 per cent of those taking part to support Farage, with 37 per cent saying that he is scaremongering.\n\nFarage has argued strongly in favour of a British Independence Day being observed within the United Kingdom, on 23 June each year. On 24 June 2016, in a televised speech on the morning of the Brexit result, he stated; \"let June 23rd go down in our history as our Independence Day\", and later said that it \"must now be made a national holiday.\"\n\nFarage has said that he supports Muslim immigrants who integrate to British society, but is against those who are \"coming here to take us over\", citing John Howard's Australia as a government to emulate in that regard. He told a Channel 4 documentary in 2015 that there is a \"fifth column\" of Islamic extremists in the United Kingdom. Farage has said that the \"basic principle\" of Enoch Powell's \"Rivers of Blood speech\" was correct.\n\nIn a 2014 interview on the LBC radio station, Farage said that he would feel \"concerned\" if a group of Romanian men moved next door to him. When interviewer James O'Brien inquired what would be the difference between Romanian men moving next door and a group of German children, in reference to Farage's German wife and children, Farage replied: \"You know the difference.\" He later expanded on this on the UKIP website, explaining that \"if we were able to operate a proper work permit scheme for Romanian nationals, with suitable checks, as recommended by UKIP, then nobody would need to be concerned if a group of Romanian nationals moved in next door to them.\"\n\nFarage called on the British government in 2013 to accept more refugees from the Syrian Civil War. He later clarified that those refugees should be of the country's Christian minority, due to the existence of nearer Muslim-majority safe countries. During the ensuing migration crisis, Farage alleged that the majority of people claiming to be refugees were economic migrants, and that some were Islamic State militants.\n\nFarage is in favour of crackdowns on immigration from Eastern Europe, but is favourable to immigration from India and Australia.\n\nFarage is critical of Britain's involvement in the wars in Iraq, Afghanistan and Libya, and cited their financial and human expenses and poor outcomes as reasons for Britain to not become involved militarily in Syria. He has expressed fears that rebel forces in Syria may be Islamic extremists. He said about the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan that \"Nobody should forget that the most devastating direct consequences of the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan have not been suffered by the likes of Mr Blair, but by the civilian populations of these countries and of course by our own brave service personnel\". Farage stated that migrant exodus from Libya had been caused by NATO military intervention, approved by David Cameron and Nicolas Sarkozy, in the civil war in Libya.\n\nFarage has criticised Britain's close ties with Saudi Arabia. He said: \"I think we need a complete re-appraisal of who Saudi Arabia are, what our relationship with them is, and stop extremist talk turning the minds of young, male Muslims in this country.\"\n\nWhen asked in 2014 which leaders he admired, Farage said, \"As an operator, but not as a human being, I would say Putin. The way he played the whole Syria thing. Brilliant. Not that I approve of him politically. How many journalists in jail now?\" Farage has criticised what he sees as EU militarism agitating western Ukrainians against Russia. Later, in 2015, he said about Putin that \"The European Union, and the West, view Putin as the devil. They want to view Putin as the devil. I’m not saying I want take him around for tea and meet mum on Sunday afternoon … But the point is, on this bigger overall battle [against ISIS in Syria] we need to start recognizing we’re on the same side\".\n\nFarage's stance on Iran has shifted over time. In 2013, Farage opposed sanctions on Iran, and criticised a potential Israeli strike on Iranian nuclear facilities, stating: \"I do not support acts of aggression, even from countries that feel their existence is threatened\". In 2018, he condemned Jeremy Corbyn's \"record for standing up and defending this hardline Islamist regime\" and declared that regime change was \"absolutely the right thing\" in Iran.\n\nIn May 2012. Farage was interviewed by Karen Coleman of the \"Irish Independent\" about the campaign in Ireland against the Irish fiscal treaty. Ireland had no anti-EU MEPs and according to Pat \"the Cope\" Gallagher MEP, UKIP's involvement was counterproductive as \"Irish voters strongly dislike foreigners like Mr Farage telling them how to vote.\" Coleman who believed the campaign had \"little to do with what's best for Ireland\" described the campaign as \"particularly egregious\" and said the interview became 'nasty' when she asked Farage about the campaign funding.\n\nDuring the 2016 Austrian presidential election campaign, Farage said that Norbert Hofer, the Freedom Party candidate, would call for a \"Brexit style referendum\" if he won. Hofer however ruled out a referendum and asked Farage not to interfere in Austria's internal politics.\n\nIn 2014, Farage said that it is UKIP policy for handguns in the UK to be legalised and licensed, describing the current legislation, brought in after the Dunblane school massacre, as \"ludicrous\". He has also said that there was no link between responsible handgun ownership and gun crime.\n\nIn October 2017, Farage asserted in an LBC radio appearance that the \"Jewish lobby\" in the United States was more concerning to him than Russian interference in American politics, saying: \"There are other very powerful lobbies in the United States of America, and the Jewish lobby, with its links with the Israeli government, is one of those strong voices...There are about 6 million Jewish people living in America, so as a percentage it's quite small, but in terms of influence it's quite big.\" Farage's remarks were condemned by the Campaign Against Antisemitism and the Anti-Defamation League, which said that Farage's comment \"plays into deep-seated anti-Semitic tropes\" and was fuel for extremist conspiracy theories.\n\nFarage has contested several elections under the UKIP banner:\n\nUK Parliament elections\n\nEuropean Parliament elections\n\nSince January 2017, Farage has hosted \"The Nigel Farage Show\" on the UK radio station LBC. The show is broadcast live on Mondays to Thursdays from 6pm to 7pm. Also, since September 2017, Farage has hosted an additional new show on LBC, \"The Nigel Farage Show On Sunday\", which is broadcast live every Sunday from 10am to 12noon.\nSince March 2018, Farage has hosted a new podcast under the LBC banner entitled \"Farage Against The Machine\", a play on words for the term 'rage against the machine', where Farage discusses the latest political developments and political news with political figures who he both agrees, and disagrees with. New episodes of the podcast are released every Friday. The podcast is available from almost any podcast player via that players search bar. \n\nFarage lives in Single Street, a hamlet in the London Borough of Bromley, \"around the corner from his mother\". He has been married twice. In 1988, he married Irish nurse Gráinne Hayes, with whom he has two children: Samuel (born 1989) and Thomas (born 1991). The couple divorced in 1997. In 1999, he married Kirsten Mehr, a German national; the couple have two children. His wife told the Press Association in February 2017 that the couple were living \"separate lives\" and Farage \"moved out of the family home a while ago\". He has spoken of how his children have been teased because of their relation to him. In a BBC interview with Rachel Johnson in May 2017 he described himself as \"53, separated, skint [broke]\", citing 20 years of campaigning as the reason for both.\n\nHe has made reference to his German wife in response to criticisms that he is somehow \"anti-Europe\", while he himself says he is merely anti-EU. Farage has employed his wife as his parliamentary secretary and in April 2014 he explained that \"nobody else could do that job\".\nOn 25 November 1985, Farage was hit by a car after a night out, and suffered injury to his head and left leg, the latter nearly requiring amputation. He was in casts for 11 months, but recovered, and the nurse who treated him became his first wife. On 26 December 1986, Farage first felt symptoms of what was later discovered to be testicular cancer. He had the left testicle removed, and the cancer had not spread to any other organs.\nIn 2010, Farage published a memoir, entitled \"Fighting Bull\" (\"Flying Free\" in paperback), outlining the founding of UKIP and his personal and political life so far. A second book, \"\", was released by Biteback Publishing in 2015.\nFarage is also a keen cricket fan and has appeared on \"Test Match Special\". He appeared in an advertisement for the bookmaker Paddy Power ahead of golf's 2014 Ryder Cup. However, due to spinal injuries since his 2010 plane crash, he cannot play golf. Farage is also an association football fan, and supports Crystal Palace FC. He likes to relax by fishing alone at night on the Kent coast. Farage is a smoker and also fond of beer, this forming part of his public image. Farage is a member of the East India, Devonshire, Sports and Public Schools' Club, a gentlemen's club situated in St. James's Square in London.\nFarage is a Christian. In 2014 he described himself as a \"somewhat lapsed\" member of the Church of England.\n\nIn April 2018, Farage said that his two youngest children have both British and German passports and that they speak \"perfect German\".\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42626191", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42626191", "title": "Nintendo Campus Challenge 1991", "text": "Nintendo Campus Challenge 1991\n\nNintendo Campus Challenge 1991 was a video game competition sponsored by Nintendo and held at nearly 60 college campuses throughout the United States. It was the first of two Campus Challenges.\n\nLike Nintendo World Championships 1990, the official event gave each player 6 minutes and 21 seconds to play in the contest, but there are three different minigames. The first minigame of the competition is to collect 25 coins in \"Super Mario Bros. 3\". The next minigame is a version of \"Pin*Bot\" where players must get 100,000 points. The final minigame is \"Dr. Mario\" and this lasts until time expires. Once time does expire, a player's score is totaled using the following formula:\n\n\nThere is only one known original copy of the 1991 Campus Challenge cartridge in existence. The game was found by a video game collector, Rob Walters, at a garage sale in New York City in 2006. The game sold for $14,000 in July 2009 After 3 months, the game was resold on eBay for $20,100.\n\nThe 1991 Campus Challenge was held at 58 college campuses and spring break locations. The event consisted of three stages. The main stage had the competition on 12 different game stations. The second stage was Nintendo Entertainment System systems with various games while the third stage had Game Boy systems. Attendees at the events could play as many times as they wanted and the highest score at the end of the day was announced the winner.\n\nThe winner from each location was flown to Disney World in Orlando over New Year's weekend in January 1992. All the competitors played in the first round where the twelve highest scoring players advanced to the second round, then the top six players advanced to the third round. The final round was a head-to-head match between Steven Lucas and Matt Sekelsky. Steven Lucas won with a score of 2,394,130.\n"}
{"id": "208656", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=208656", "title": "Non-standard cosmology", "text": "Non-standard cosmology\n\nA non-standard cosmology is any physical cosmological model of the universe that was, or still is, proposed as an alternative to the then-current standard model of cosmology. The term \"non-standard\" is applied to any theory that does not conform to the scientific consensus. Because the term depends on the prevailing consensus, the meaning of the term changes over time. For example, hot dark matter would not have been considered non-standard in 1990, but would be in 2010. Conversely, a non-zero cosmological constant resulting in an accelerating universe would have been considered non-standard in 1990, but is part of the standard cosmology in 2010.\n\nSeveral major cosmological disputes have occurred throughout the history of cosmology. One of the earliest was the Copernican Revolution, which established the heliocentric model of the Solar System. More recent was the Great Debate of 1920, in the aftermath of which the Milky Way's status as but one of the Universe's many galaxies was established. From the 1940s to the 1960s, the astrophysical community was equally divided between supporters of the Big Bang theory and supporters of a rival steady state universe; this was eventually decided in favour of the Big Bang theory by advances in observational cosmology in the late 1960s. The current standard model of cosmology is the Lambda-CDM model, wherein the Universe is governed by General Relativity, began with a Big Bang and today is a nearly-flat universe that consists of approximately 5% baryons, 27% cold dark matter, and 68% dark energy.\n\nLambda-CDM has been an extremely successful model, but retains some weaknesses (such as the dwarf galaxy problem). Research on extensions or modifications to Lambda-CDM, as well as fundamentally different models, is ongoing. Topics investigated include quintessence, Modified Newtonian Dynamics (MOND) and its relativistic generalization TeVeS, and warm dark matter.\n\nBefore observational evidence was gathered, theorists developed frameworks based on what they understood to be the most general features of physics and philosophical assumptions about the universe. When Albert Einstein developed his general theory of relativity in 1915, this was used as a mathematical starting point for most cosmological theories. In order to arrive at a cosmological model, however, theoreticians needed to make assumptions about the nature of the largest scales of the universe. The assumptions that the current standard model of cosmology, Lambda-CDM, relies upon are:\n\n\nThese assumptions when combined with General Relativity result in a universe that is governed by the Friedmann–Robertson–Walker metric (FRW metric). The FRW metric allows for a universe that is either expanding or contracting (as well as stationary but unstable universes). When Hubble's Law was discovered, most astronomers interpreted the law as a sign the universe is expanding. This implies the universe was smaller in the past, and therefore led to the following conclusions:\n\n\nThese features were derived by numerous individuals over a period of years; indeed it was not until the middle of the twentieth century that accurate predictions of the last feature and observations confirming its existence were made. Non-standard theories developed either by starting from different assumptions or by contradicting the features predicted by Lambda-CDM.\n\nModern physical cosmology as it is currently studied first emerged as a scientific discipline in the period after the Shapley–Curtis debate and discoveries by Edwin Hubble of a cosmic distance ladder when astronomers and physicists had to come to terms with a universe that was of a much larger scale than the previously assumed galactic size. Theorists who successfully developed cosmologies applicable to the larger-scale universe are remembered today as the founders of modern cosmology. Among these scientists are Arthur Milne, Willem de Sitter, Alexander Friedman, Georges Lemaître, and Albert Einstein himself.\n\nAfter confirmation of the Hubble's law by observation, the two most popular cosmological theories became the Steady State theory of Hoyle, Gold and Bondi, and the big bang theory of Ralph Alpher, George Gamow, and Robert Dicke with a small number of supporters of a smattering of alternatives. Since the discovery of the Cosmic microwave background radiation (CMB) by Arno Penzias and Robert Wilson in 1965, most cosmologists concluded that observations were best explained by the big bang model. Steady State theorists and other non-standard cosmologies were then tasked with providing an explanation for the phenomenon if they were to remain plausible. This led to original approaches including integrated starlight and cosmic iron whiskers, which were meant to provide a source for a pervasive, all-sky microwave background that was not due to an early universe phase transition.\n\nScepticism about the non-standard cosmologies' ability to explain the CMB caused interest in the subject to wane since then, however, there have been two periods in which interest in non-standard cosmology has increased due to observational data which posed difficulties for the big bang. The first occurred was the late 1970s when there were a number of unsolved problems, such as the horizon problem, the flatness problem, and the lack of magnetic monopoles, which challenged the big bang model. These issues were eventually resolved by cosmic inflation in the 1980s. This idea subsequently became part of the understanding of the big bang, although alternatives have been proposed from time to time. The second occurred in the mid-1990s when observations of the ages of globular clusters and the primordial helium abundance, apparently disagreed with the big bang. However, by the late 1990s, most astronomers had concluded that these observations did not challenge the big bang and additional data from COBE and the WMAP, provided detailed quantitative measures which were consistent with standard cosmology.\n\nIn the 1990s, a dawning of a \"golden age of cosmology\" was accompanied by a startling discovery that the expansion of the universe was, in fact, accelerating. Previous to this, it had been assumed that matter either in its visible or invisible dark matter form was the dominant energy density in the universe. This \"classical\" big bang cosmology was overthrown when it was discovered that nearly 70% of the energy in the universe was attributable to the cosmological constant, often referred to as \"dark energy\". This has led to the development of a so-called concordance ΛCDM model which combines detailed data obtained with new telescopes and techniques in observational astrophysics with an expanding, density-changing universe. Today, it is more common to find in the scientific literature proposals for \"non-standard cosmologies\" that actually accept the basic tenets of the big bang cosmology, while modifying parts of the concordance model. Such theories include alternative models of dark energy, such as quintessence, phantom energy and some ideas in brane cosmology; alternative models of dark matter, such as modified Newtonian dynamics; alternatives or extensions to inflation such as chaotic inflation and the ekpyrotic model; and proposals to supplement the universe with a first cause, such as the Hartle–Hawking boundary condition, the cyclic model, and the string landscape. There is no consensus about these ideas amongst cosmologists, but they are nonetheless active fields of academic inquiry.\n\nToday, heterodox non-standard cosmologies are generally considered unworthy of consideration by cosmologists while many of the historically significant nonstandard cosmologies are considered to have been falsified. The essentials of the big bang theory have been confirmed by a wide range of complementary and detailed observations, and no non-standard cosmologies have reproduced the range of successes of the big bang model. Speculations about alternatives are not normally part of research or pedagogical discussions, except as object lessons or for their historical importance. An open letter started by some remaining advocates of non-standard cosmology has affirmed that: \"today, virtually all financial and experimental resources in cosmology are devoted to big bang studies...\"\n\nGeneral relativity, upon which the FRW metric is based, is an extremely successful theory which has met every observational test so far. However, at a fundamental level it is incompatible with quantum mechanics, and by predicting singularities, it also predicts its own breakdown. Any alternative theory of gravity would imply immediately an alternative cosmological theory since current modeling is dependent on general relativity as a framework assumption. There are many different motivations to modify general relativity, such as to eliminate the need for dark matter or dark energy, or to avoid such paradoxes as the firewall.\n\nErnst Mach developed a kind of extension to general relativity which proposed that inertia was due to gravitational effects of the mass distribution of the universe. This led naturally to speculation about the cosmological implications for such a proposal. Carl Brans and Robert Dicke were able to successfully incorporate Mach's principle into general relativity which admitted for cosmological solutions that would imply a variable mass. The homogeneously distributed mass of the universe would result in a roughly scalar field that permeated the universe and would serve as a source for Newton's gravitational constant; creating a theory of quantum gravity.\n\nModified Newtonian Dynamics (MOND) is a relatively modern proposal to explain the galaxy rotation problem based on a variation of Newton's Second Law of Dynamics at low accelerations. This would produce a large-scale variation of Newton's universal theory of gravity. A modification of Newton's theory would also imply a modification of general relativistic cosmology in as much as Newtonian cosmology is the limit of Friedman cosmology. While almost all astrophysicists today reject MOND in favor of dark matter, a small number of researchers continue to enhance it, recently incorporating Brans–Dicke theories into treatments that attempt to account for cosmological observations.\n\nTensor–vector–scalar gravity (TeVeS) is a proposed relativistic theory that is equivalent to Modified Newtonian dynamics (MOND) in the non-relativistic limit, which purports to explain the galaxy rotation problem without invoking dark matter. Originated by Jacob Bekenstein in 2004, it incorporates various dynamical and non-dynamical tensor fields, vector fields and scalar fields.\n\nThe break-through of TeVeS over MOND is that it can explain the phenomenon of gravitational lensing, a cosmic optical illusion in which matter bends light, which has been confirmed many times. A recent preliminary finding is that it can explain structure formation without CDM, but requiring a ~2eV massive neutrino (they are also required to fit some Clusters of galaxies, including the Bullet Cluster). However, other authors (see Slosar, Melchiorri and Silk) claim that TeVeS can't explain cosmic microwave background anisotropies and structure formation at the same time, i.e. ruling out those models at high significance.\n\n\"f\"(\"R\") gravity is a family of theories that modify general relativity by defining a different function of the Ricci scalar. The simplest case is just the function being equal to the scalar; this is general relativity. As a consequence of introducing an arbitrary function, there may be freedom to explain the accelerated expansion and structure formation of the Universe without adding unknown forms of dark energy or dark matter. Some functional forms may be inspired by corrections arising from a quantum theory of gravity. \"f\"(\"R\") gravity was first proposed in 1970 by Hans Adolph Buchdahl (although \"φ\" was used rather than \"f\" for the name of the arbitrary function). It has become an active field of research following work by Starobinsky on cosmic inflation. A wide range of phenomena can be produced from this theory by adopting different functions; however, many functional forms can now be ruled out on observational grounds, or because of pathological theoretical problems.\n\nThe Steady State theory extends the homogeneity assumption of the cosmological principle to reflect a homogeneity in time as well as in space. This \"perfect cosmological principle\" as it would come to be called asserted that the universe looks the same everywhere (on the large scale), the same as it always has and always will. This is in contrast to Lambda-CDM, in which the universe looked very different in the past and will look very different in the future. Steady State theory was proposed in 1948 by Fred Hoyle, Thomas Gold, Hermann Bondi and others. In order to maintain the perfect cosmological principle in an expanding universe, steady state cosmology had to posit a \"matter-creation field\" (the so-called C-field) that would insert matter into the universe in order to maintain a constant density.\n\nThe debate between the Big Bang and the Steady State models would happen for 15 years with camps roughly evenly divided until the discovery of the cosmic microwave background radiation. This radiation is a natural feature of the Big Bang model which demands a \"time of last scattering\" where photons decouple with baryonic matter. The Steady State model proposed that this radiation could be accounted for by so-called \"integrated starlight\" which was a background caused in part by Olbers' paradox in an infinite universe. In order to account for the uniformity of the background, steady state proponents posited a fog effect associated with microscopic iron particles that would scatter radio waves in such a manner as to produce an isotropic CMB. The proposed phenomena was whimsically named \"cosmic iron whiskers\" and served as the thermalization mechanism. The Steady State theory did not have the horizon problem of the Big Bang because it assumed an infinite amount of time was available for thermalizing the background.\n\nAs more cosmological data began to be collected, cosmologists began to realize that the Big Bang correctly predicted the abundance of light elements observed in the cosmos. What was a coincidental ratio of hydrogen to deuterium and helium in the steady state model was a feature of the Big Bang model. Additionally, detailed measurements of the CMB since the 1990s with the COBE, WMAP and Planck observations indicated that the spectrum of the background was closer to a blackbody than any other source in nature. The best integrated starlight models could predict was a thermalization to the level of 10% while the COBE satellite measured the deviation at one part in 10. After this dramatic discovery, the majority of cosmologists became convinced that the steady state theory could not explain the observed CMB properties.\n\nAlthough the original steady state model is now considered to be contrary to observations (particularly the CMB) even by its one-time supporters, modifications of the steady state model has been proposed, including a model that envisions the universe as originating through many little bangs rather than one big bang (the so-called \"quasi-steady state cosmology\"). It supposes that the universe goes through periodic expansion and contraction phases, with a soft \"rebound\" in place of the Big Bang. Thus the Hubble Law is explained by the fact that the universe is currently in an expansion phase. Work continues on this model (most notably by Jayant V. Narlikar), although it has yet to gain widespread mainstream acceptance.\n\nIsotropicity – the idea that the universe looks the same in all directions – is one of the core assumptions that enters into the FRW equations. In 2008 however, scientists working on Wilkinson Microwave Anisotropy Probe data claimed to have detected a 600–1000 km/s flow of clusters toward a 20-degree patch of sky between the constellations of Centaurus and Vela. They suggested that the motion may be a remnant of the influence of no-longer-visible regions of the universe prior to inflation. The detection is controversial, and other scientists have found that the universe is isotropic to a great degree.\n\nIn Lambda-CDM, dark matter is an extremely inert form of matter that does not interact with both ordinary matter (baryons) and light, but still exerts gravitational effects. To produce the large-scale structure we see today, dark matter is \"cold\" (the 'C' in Lambda-CDM), i.e. non-relativistic. Dark energy is an unknown form of energy that tends to accelerate the expansion of the universe. Both dark matter and dark energy have not been conclusively identified, and their exact nature is the subject of intense study. For example, scientists have hypothesized that dark matter could decay into dark energy, or that both dark matter and dark energy are different facets of the same underlying fluid (see dark fluid). Other theories that aim to explain one or the other, such as warm dark matter and quintessence, also fall into this category.\n\nAs the observational cosmology began to develop, certain astronomers began to offer alternative speculations regarding the interpretation of various phenomena that occasionally became parts of non-standard cosmologies.\n\nTired light theories challenge the common interpretation of Hubble's Law as a sign the universe is expanding. It was proposed by Fritz Zwicky in 1929. The basic proposal amounted to light losing energy (\"getting tired\") due to the distance it traveled rather than any metric expansion or physical recession of sources from observers. A traditional explanation of this effect was to attribute a dynamical friction to photons; the photons' gravitational interactions with stars and other material will progressively reduce their momentum, thus producing a redshift. Other proposals for explaining how photons could lose energy included the scattering of light by intervening material in a process similar to observed interstellar reddening. However, all these processes would also tend to blur images of distant objects, and no such blurring has been detected.\n\nTraditional tired light has been found incompatible with the observed time dilation that is associated with the cosmological redshift. This idea is mostly remembered as a falsified alternative explanation for Hubble's law in most astronomy or cosmology discussions.\n\nThe Dirac large numbers hypothesis uses the ratio of the size of the visible universe to the radius of quantum particle to predict the age of the universe. The coincidence of various ratios being close in order of magnitude may ultimately prove meaningless or the indication of a deeper connection between concepts in a future theory of everything. Nevertheless, attempts to use such ideas have been criticized as numerology.\n\nSome astrophysicists were unconvinced that the cosmological redshifts are caused by universal cosmological expansion. Skepticism and alternative explanations began appearing in the scientific literature in the 1960s. In particular, Geoffrey Burbidge, William Tifft and Halton Arp were all observational astrophysicists who proposed that there were inconsistencies in the redshift observations of galaxies and quasars. The first two were famous for suggesting that there were periodicities in the redshift distributions of galaxies and quasars. Subsequent statistical analyses of redshift surveys, however, have not confirmed the existence of these periodicities.\n\nDuring the quasar controversies of the 1970s, these same astronomers were also of the opinion that quasars exhibited high redshifts not due to their incredible distance but rather due to unexplained \"intrinsic redshift\" mechanisms that would cause the periodicities and cast doubt on the Big Bang. Arguments over how distant quasars were took the form of debates surrounding quasar energy production mechanisms, their light curves, and whether quasars exhibited any proper motion. Astronomers who believed quasars were not at cosmological distances argued that the Eddington luminosity set limits on how distant the quasars could be since the energy output required to explain the apparent brightness of cosmologically-distant quasars was far too high to be explainable by nuclear fusion alone. This objection was made moot by the improved models of gravity-powered accretion disks which for sufficiently dense material (such as black holes) can be more efficient at energy production than nuclear reactions. The controversy was laid to rest by the 1990s when evidence became available that observed quasars were actually the ultra-luminous cores of distant active galactic nuclei and that the major components of their redshift were in fact due to the Hubble flow.\n\nThroughout his career, Halton Arp maintained that there were anomalies in his observations of quasars and galaxies, and that those anomalies served as a refutation of the Big Bang. In particular, Arp pointed out examples of quasars that were close to the line of sight of (relatively) nearby active galactic nuclei (AGN). He claimed that clusters of quasars were in alignment around AGN cores and that quasars, rather than being the cores of distant AGN, were actually much closer and were starlike-objects ejected from the centers of nearby AGN with high intrinsic redshifts. Arp also contended that they gradually lost their non-cosmological redshift component and eventually evolved into full-fledged galaxies. This stands in stark contradiction to the accepted models of galaxy formation.\n\nThe biggest problem with Arp's analysis is that today there are hundreds of thousands of quasars with known redshifts discovered by various sky surveys. The vast majority of these quasars are not correlated in any way with nearby AGN. Indeed, with improved observing techniques, a number of host galaxies have been observed around quasars which indicates that those quasars at least really are at cosmological distances and are not the kind of objects Arp proposes. Arp's analysis, according to most scientists, suffers from being based on small number statistics and hunting for peculiar coincidences and odd associations. Unbiased samples of sources, taken from numerous galaxy surveys of the sky show none of the proposed 'irregularities', nor that any statistically significant correlations exist.\n\nIn addition, it is not clear what mechanism would be responsible for intrinsic redshifts or their gradual dissipation over time. It is also unclear how nearby quasars would explain some features in the spectrum of quasars which the standard model easily explains. In the standard cosmology, clouds of neutral hydrogen between the quasar and the earth create Lyman alpha absorption lines having different redshifts up to that of the quasar itself; this feature is called the Lyman-alpha forest. Moreover, in extreme quasars one can observe the absorption of neutral hydrogen which has not yet been reionized in a feature known as the Gunn–Peterson trough. Most cosmologists see this missing theoretical work as sufficient reason to explain the observations as either chance or error.\n\nHalton Arp has proposed an explanation for his observations by a Machian \"variable mass hypothesis\". The variable-mass theory invokes constant matter creation from active galactic nuclei, which puts it into the class of steady-state theories. With the passing of Halton Arp, this cosmology has been relegated to a dismissed theory.\n\nIn 1965, Hannes Alfvén proposed a \"plasma cosmology\" theory of the universe based in part on scaling observations of space plasma physics and experiments on plasmas in terrestrial laboratories to cosmological scales orders of magnitude greater. Taking matter–antimatter symmetry as a starting point, Alfvén together with Oskar Klein proposed the Alfvén-Klein cosmology model, based on the fact that since most of the local universe was composed of matter and not antimatter there may be large bubbles of matter and antimatter that would globally balance to equality. The difficulties with this model were apparent almost immediately. Matter–antimatter annihilation results in the production of high energy photons which were not observed. While it was possible that the local \"matter-dominated\" cell was simply larger than the observable universe, this proposition did not lend itself to observational tests.\n\nLike the steady state theory, plasma cosmology includes a Strong Cosmological Principle which assumes that the universe is isotropic in time as well as in space. Matter is explicitly assumed to have always existed, or at least that it formed at a time so far in the past as to be forever beyond humanity's empirical methods of investigation.\n\nWhile plasma cosmology has never had the support of most astronomers or physicists, a small number of plasma researchers have continued to promote and develop the approach, and publish in the special issues of the IEEE Transactions on Plasma Science. A few papers regarding plasma cosmology were published in other mainstream journals until the 1990s. Additionally, in 1991, Eric J. Lerner, an independent researcher in plasma physics and nuclear fusion, wrote a popular-level book supporting plasma cosmology called \"The Big Bang Never Happened\". At that time there was renewed interest in the subject among the cosmological community along with other non-standard cosmologies. This was due to anomalous results reported in 1987 by Andrew Lange and Paul Richardson of UC Berkeley and Toshio Matsumoto of Nagoya University that indicated the cosmic microwave background might not have a blackbody spectrum. However, the final announcement (in April 1992) of COBE satellite data corrected the earlier contradiction of the Big Bang; the popularity of plasma cosmology has since fallen.\n\nOne of the major successes of the Big Bang theory has been to provide a prediction that corresponds to the observations of the abundance of light elements in the universe. Along with the explanation provided for the Hubble's law and for the cosmic microwave background, this observation has proved very difficult for alternative theories to explain.\n\nTheories which assert that the universe has an infinite age, including many of the theories described above, fail to account for the abundance of deuterium in the cosmos, because deuterium easily undergoes nuclear fusion in stars and there are no known astrophysical processes other than the Big Bang itself that can produce it in large quantities. Hence the fact that deuterium is not an extremely rare component of the universe suggests that the universe has a finite age.\n\nTheories which assert that the universe has a finite life, but that the Big Bang did not happen, have problems with the abundance of helium-4. The observed amount of He is far larger than the amount that should have been created via stars or any other known process. By contrast, the abundance of He in Big Bang models is very insensitive to assumptions about baryon density, changing only a few percent as the baryon density changes by several orders of magnitude. The observed value of He is within the range calculated.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51999416", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51999416", "title": "Park Theatre (Brooklyn)", "text": "Park Theatre (Brooklyn)\n\nThe Park Theatre was a playhouse in Brooklyn, New York City, located on 381–383 Fulton Street. Built in 1860 and opened in 1863, the Park Theatre was the oldest playhouse in Brooklyn until it was destroyed by fire on November 12, 1908.\n"}
{"id": "497852", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=497852", "title": "Planned obsolescence", "text": "Planned obsolescence\n\nPlanned obsolescence, or built-in obsolescence, in industrial design and economics is a policy of planning or designing a product with an artificially limited useful life, so it will become obsolete (that is, unfashionable or no longer functional) after a certain period of time. The rationale behind the strategy is to generate long-term sales volume by reducing the time between repeat purchases (referred to as \"shortening the replacement cycle\").\n\nProducers that pursue this strategy believe that the additional sales revenue it creates more than offsets the additional costs of research and development, and offsets the opportunity costs of repurposing an existing product line. In a competitive industry, this is a risky policy, because consumers may decide to buy from competitors instead if they notice the strategy.\n\nPlanned obsolescence tends to work best when a producer has at least an oligopoly. Before introducing a planned obsolescence, the producer has to know that the consumer is at least somewhat likely to buy a replacement from them. In these cases of planned obsolescence, there is an information asymmetry between the producer, who knows how long the product was designed to last, and the consumer, who does not. When a market becomes more competitive, product lifespans tend to increase. For example, when Japanese vehicles with longer lifespans entered the American market in the 1960s and 1970s, American carmakers were forced to respond by building more durable products.\n\nIn the United States, automotive design reached a turning point in 1924 when the American national automobile market began reaching saturation. To maintain unit sales, General Motors head Alfred P. Sloan Jr. suggested annual model-year design changes to convince car owners that they needed to buy a new replacement each year, an idea borrowed from the bicycle industry, though the concept is often misattributed to Sloan. Critics called his strategy \"planned obsolescence\". Sloan preferred the term \"dynamic obsolescence\".\n\nThis strategy had far-reaching effects on the auto business, the field of product design, and eventually the American economy. The smaller players could not maintain the pace and expense of yearly re-styling. Henry Ford did not like the constant stream of model-year changes because he clung to an engineer's notions of simplicity, economies of scale, and design integrity. GM surpassed Ford's sales in 1931 and became the dominant company in the industry thereafter. The frequent design changes also made it necessary to use a body-on-frame rather than the lighter, but less easy to modify, unibody design used by most European automakers.\n\nThe origins of phrase \"planned obsolescence\" go back at least as far as 1932 with Bernard London's pamphlet \"Ending the Depression Through Planned Obsolescence\". The essence of London's plan would have the government impose a legal obsolescence on consumer articles, to stimulate and perpetuate consumption.\n\nHowever, the phrase was first popularized in 1954 by Brooks Stevens, an American industrial designer. Stevens was due to give a talk at an advertising conference in Minneapolis in 1954. Without giving it much thought, he used the term as the title of his talk. From that point on, \"planned obsolescence\" became Stevens' catchphrase. By his definition, planned obsolescence was \"Instilling in the buyer the desire to own something a little newer, a little better, a little sooner than is necessary.\"\n\nThe phrase was quickly taken up by others, but Stevens' definition was challenged. By the late 1950s, \"planned obsolescence\" had become a commonly used term for products designed to break easily or to quickly go out of style. In fact, the concept was so widely recognized that in 1959 Volkswagen mocked it in an advertising campaign. While acknowledging the widespread use of planned obsolescence among automobile manufacturers, Volkswagen pitched itself as an alternative. \"We do not believe in planned obsolescence\", the ads suggested. \"We don't change a car for the sake of change.\" In the famous Volkswagen advertising campaign by Doyle Dane Bernbach, one advert showed an almost blank page with the strapline \"No point in showing the 1962 Volkswagen, it still looks the same\".\n\nIn 1960, cultural critic Vance Packard published \"The Waste Makers\", promoted as an exposé of \"the systematic attempt of business to make us wasteful, debt-ridden, permanently discontented individuals\". Packard divided planned obsolescence into two sub categories:\n\n\"Obsolescence of desirability\", a.k.a. \"psychological obsolescence\", referred to marketers' attempts to wear out a product in the owner's mind. Packard quoted industrial designer George Nelson, who wrote: \"Design... is an attempt to make a contribution through change. When no contribution is made or can be made, the only process available for giving the illusion of change is 'styling!'\"\n\nContrived durability is a strategy of shortening the product lifetime before it is released onto the market, by designing it to deteriorate quickly. The design of all consumer products includes an expected average lifetime permeating all stages of development. Thus, it must be decided early in the design of a complex product how long it is designed to last so that each component can be made to those specifications. Since all matter is subject to entropy, it is impossible for any designed object to retain its full function forever; all products will ultimately break down, no matter what steps are taken. While it is known that products are optimized to match their required lifespan, such designs are often chosen for cost or weight saving reasons. Limited lifespan is only a sign of planned obsolescence if the lifespan of the product is made artificially short by design.\n\nThe strategy of contrived durability is generally not prohibited by law, and manufacturers are free to set the durability level of their products.\n\nA possible method of limiting a product's durability is to use inferior materials in critical areas, or suboptimal component layouts which cause excessive wear. Using soft metal in screws and cheap plastic instead of metal in stress-bearing components will increase the speed at which a product will become inoperable through normal usage and make it prone to breakage from even minor forms of abnormal usage. For example, small, brittle plastic gears in toys are extremely prone to damage if the toy is played with roughly, which can easily destroy key functions of the toy and force the purchase of a replacement. The short life expectancy of smartphones and other handheld electronics is a result of constant usage, fragile batteries, and the ability to easily damage them.\n\nThe ultimate examples of such design are single-use versions of traditionally durable goods, such as disposable cameras, where the customer must purchase an entire new product after using them a single time. Such products are often designed to be impossible to service; for example, a cheap \"throwaway\" digital watch may have a casing which is simply sealed in the factory, with no designed ability for the user to access the interior without destroying the watch entirely. Manufacturers may make replacement parts either unavailable or so expensive that it makes the product uneconomic to repair, for example inkjet printers made by Canon incorporate a print head which eventually fails, however the high cost of a replacement forces the owner to scrap the entire device.\n\nOther products may also contain design features meant to frustrate repairs, such as Apple's \"tamper-resistant\" pentalobe screws that cannot easily be removed with common consumer tools. Front loading washing machines often have the drum bearing - a critical and wear-prone mechanical component - permanently molded into the wash tub, making it impossible to renew without replacing the entire tub. The cost of this repair may exceed the residual value of the appliance, forcing it to be scrapped. \n\nAccording to Kyle Wiens, co-founder of an online repair community, a possible goal for such design is to make the cost of repairs comparable to the replacement cost, or to prevent any form of servicing of the product at all. In 2012, Toshiba was criticized for issuing cease-and-desist letters to the owner of a website that hosted its copyrighted repair manuals, to the detriment of the independent and home repair market.\n\nSome products contain batteries that are not user-replaceable after they have worn down. While such a design can help make the device thinner, it can also make it difficult to replace the battery without sending the entire device away for repairs or purchasing a replacement.\n\nObsolescence of desirability or stylistic obsolescence occurs when designers change the styling of products so customers will purchase products more frequently due to the decrease in the perceived desirability of unfashionable items.\n\nMany products are primarily desirable for aesthetic rather than functional reasons. An obvious example of such a product is clothing. Such products experience a cycle of desirability referred to as a \"fashion cycle\". By continually introducing new aesthetics, and retargeting or discontinuing older designs, a manufacturer can \"ride the fashion cycle\", allowing for constant sales despite the original products remaining fully functional. Sneakers are popular fashion industry where this is prevalent - Nike's Air Max line of running shoes is a prime example where a single model of shoe is often produced for years, but the color and material combination (\"colorway\") is changed every few months, or different colorways are offered in different markets. This has the upshot of ensuring constant demand for the product, even though it remains fundamentally the same.\n\nTo a more limited extent this is also true of some consumer electronic products, where manufacturers will release slightly updated products at regular intervals and emphasize their value as status symbols.\n\nPlanned systemic obsolescence is the deliberate attempt to make a product obsolete by altering the system in which it is used in such a way as to make its continued use difficult. Common examples of planned systemic obsolescence include not accommodating forward compatibility in software, or routinely changing screws or fasteners so that they cannot easily be operated on with existing tools.\n\nThis approach was employed by Samsung in the case of the Samsung Galaxy Note 7. This device was recalled due to battery defects that caused several units to catch fire or explode. There are several holdouts, however, with people refusing to send the device back and these constituted 4 percent of close to 2 million total devices sold in the United States. To address this and avoid more cases of overheating devices, the South Korean company began rolling out software updates for the Note 7 that throttled its functionalities. The final update landed on December 19, 2016, with an update that prevented the batteries from charging, effectively bricking the phones.\n\nIn some cases, notification may be combined with the deliberate disabling of a product to prevent it from working, thus requiring the buyer to purchase a replacement. For example, inkjet printer manufacturers employ smart chips in their ink cartridges to prevent them from being used after a certain threshold (number of pages, time, etc.), even though the cartridge may still contain usable ink or could be refilled (with ink toners, up to 50 percent of the toner cartridge is often still full). This constitutes \"programmed obsolescence\", in that there is no random component contributing to the decline in function. \n\nIn the Jackie Blennis v. HP class action suit, it was claimed that Hewlett Packard designed certain inkjet printers and cartridges to shut down on an undisclosed expiration date, and at this point consumers were prevented from using the ink that remained in the expired cartridge. HP denied these claims, but agreed to discontinue the use of certain messages, and to make certain changes to the disclosures on its website and packaging, as well as compensating affected consumers with a total credit of up to $5,000,000 for future purchases from HP. \n\nThere are some workarounds for users, for instance, that will more than double the life of the printer that has stopped with a message to replace the imaging drum.\n\nEstimates of planned obsolescence can influence a company's decisions about product engineering. Therefore, the company can use the least expensive components that satisfy product lifetime projections.\n\nAlso, for industries, planned obsolescence stimulates demand by encouraging purchasers/putting them under pressure to buy sooner if they still want a functioning product. These products can be bought from the same manufacturer (a replacement part or a newer model), or from a competitor who might also rely on planned obsolescence. Especially in developed countries (where many industries already face a saturated market), this technique is often necessary for producers to maintain their level of revenue.\n\nWhile planned obsolescence is appealing to producers, it can also do significant harm to the society in the form of negative externalities. Continuously replacing products, rather than repairing them, creates more waste and pollution, uses more natural resources, and results in more consumer spending. Planned obsolescence can thus have a negative impact on the environment in aggregate. Even when planned obsolescence might help to save scarce resources per unit produced, it tends to increase output in aggregate, since due to laws of supply and demand decreases in cost and price will eventually result in increases in demand and consumption. However, the negative environmental impacts of planned obsolescence are dependent also on the process of production.\n\nThere is also the potential backlash of consumers who learn that the manufacturer invested money to make the product obsolete faster; such consumers might turn to a producer (if any exists) that offers a more durable alternative.\n\nIn 2015, as part of a larger movement against planned obsolescence across the European Union, France has passed legislation requiring that appliance manufacturers and vendors declare the intended product lifespans, and to inform consumers how long spare parts for a given product will be produced. From 2016, appliance manufacturers are required to repair or replace, free of charge, any defective product within two years from its original purchase date. This effectively creates a mandatory two-year warranty.\n\nShortening the replacement cycle has critics and supporters.\n\nPhilip Kotler argues that: \"Much so-called planned obsolescence is the working of the competitive and technological forces in a free society—forces that lead to ever-improving goods and services.\"\n\nCritics such as Vance Packard claim the process is wasteful and exploits customers. With psychological obsolescence, resources are used up making changes, often cosmetic changes, that are not of great value to the customer. Miles Park advocates new and collaborative approaches between the designer and the consumer to challenge obsolescence in fast-moving sectors such as consumer electronics.\n\nSome people, such as Ronny Balcaen, have proposed to create a new label to counter the diminishing quality of products due to the planned obsolescence technique.\n\nSoftware companies sometimes deliberately drop support for older technologies as a calculated attempt to force users to purchase new products to replace those made obsolete. Most proprietary software will ultimately reach an end-of-life point - usually because the cost of support exceeds the revenue generated by supporting the old version - at which the supplier will cease updates and support. As free software and open source software can always be updated and maintained by somebody else, the user is not at the sole mercy of a proprietary vendor. Software which is abandoned by the manufacturer with regard to manufacturer support is sometimes called \"abandonware\".\n\nRussell Jacoby, writing in the 1970s, observes that intellectual production has succumbed to the same pattern of planned obsolescence used by manufacturing enterprises to generate ever-renewed demand for their products.\n\nCamille Paglia characterizes contemporary academic discourse influenced by French theorists such as Lacan, Derrida, and Foucault as the academic equivalent of name brand consumerism. \"Lacan, Derrida, and Foucault,\" she says, \"are the academic equivalents of BMW, Rolex, and Cuisinart.\" Under the inspiration of the latest academic fashions, academic planned obsolescence is to manufacture content with little merit for the same reason fashion designers come out with new fashions.\n\nPlanned obsolescence has been assumed a necessity when it comes to stimulating consumption; however, this practice has come into question. In 2015 the French Parliament ruled and further established a fine of up to 300,000 euros and jail terms of up to two years for those manufacturers planning the death of their products in advance. The rule is not only relevant because of the sanctions that it establishes but also because it is the first time that a legislature openly recognizes the existence of planned obsolescence. These techniques may include \"a deliberate introduction of a flaw, a weakness, a scheduled stop, a technical limitation, incompatibility or other obstacles for repair\", reads the text regarding what may be considered as planned obsolescence.\n\nThe European Union is also beginning to address this problem. The European Economic and Social Committee (EESC), an advisory body of the EU, announced in 2013 that it was studying \"a total ban on planned obsolescence\". It said replacing products that are designed to stop working within two or three years of their purchase was a waste of energy and resources and generated pollution. The EESC organised a round table in Madrid in 2014 on 'Best practices in the domain of built-in obsolescence and collaborative consumption' which called for sustainable consumption to be enshrined as a consumer right in EU legislation. Carlos Trias Pinto, president of the EESC's Consultative Commission on Industrial Change supports \"the introduction of a labeling system which indicates the durability of a device, so the consumer has the possibility of choosing whether he/she prefers to buy a cheap product or a more expensive, more durable product\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21543910", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21543910", "title": "Public holidays in Kyrgyzstan", "text": "Public holidays in Kyrgyzstan\n\nThis is the list of public holidays in Kyrgyzstan:\n\nTwo additional Muslim holidays \"Orozo Ait\" and \"Kurman Ait\" are defined by lunar calendar.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1187358", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1187358", "title": "Rencontres Trans Musicales", "text": "Rencontres Trans Musicales\n\nLes Rencontres Trans Musicales (generally referred to as \"Les Transmusicales de Rennes\") is a music festival that lasts for 3 or 4 days. It is held annually in December. The festival takes place in Rennes, Brittany, France.\nSince the festival's beginning, it has been renowned for revealing the \"next big thing\" in music.\nThe festival has become one of the most significant musical events in Europe, attracting over 62,000 people in 2013. It attracted over 80 groups and artists from over 26 nationalities and music industry professionals coming from all continents. \n\nLes Rencontres Trans Musicales, often called \"Les Trans\", was created in 1979 by Béatrice Macé, Jean-Louis Brossard, Hervé Bordier (until 1996), Jean-René (until 1989), and other music students. The association was initially in debt, which led to programming a benefit concert. The first concert took place in la salle de la Cité in June. Twelve bands performed on two nights to an audience of approximately 1800 people. The second concert was in December 2013. \nJean-Louis Brossard is the artistic director and Sandrine Poutrel is the production manager. Jean-Louis Brossard and Béatrice Macé together lead Les Rencontres Trans Musicales. From the first concerts, before the word ‘festival’ had been attached to the event, the artistic bias of the line up was toward originality and new artistic forms. The artists who participated in the festival would often rise to the top of the music charts within a few months following their performance. Björk, Ben Harper and Lenny Kravitz all performed for the first time in public in the festival. It is considered that the festival boosted the popularity of Étienne Daho, Arno, Stephan Eicher, Les Négresses Vertes, Nirvana, Bérurier Noir, Denez Prigent, Daft Punk, Amadou & Mariam, Birdy Nam Nam, Justice, Fugees, Stromae, London Grammar and many other bands.\n\nIn 2004, the festival moved to the Parc Expo, close to Rennes Bretagne Airport. Some concerts are still organized in the town of Rennes. In 2004, the festival moved to the Parc Expo\nSince 1979, TRANS has shown the ability to capture the musical zeitgeist and to maintain with it a combination of discovery and influence.\nTRANS exported itself to China, Norway, Czech Republic and Russia. On December 8, 2010, l'Association des Trans Musicales launched a website that recounts the history of the festival.\n\nStriking artists:\n\n\nThe Trans Musicales made it clear from the first edition, in June 1979, and their philosophy never changed:\n\nThe international work has been going on since the end of the 1980s.\nTurned towards research and exploration of musical movements and where they originate, the programming puts us in touch with artists, labels, editors and agents on all continents. On the other hand, the Trans collaboration with foreign media and professionals is strong and continuous.\nSince the 2001 edition, the International Trans project consolidates and extends their work overseas, in partnership with Cultures France, a governmental operator on all international actions.\nThe project was conceived as a way to extend the collaboration with the artists beyond the time span of a single edition. The line-up included bands that have performed or are about to perform the Trans in Rennes; they are joined by local artists.\n\nThe Trans Musicales team programmed two evenings at the Cargo, in Neuchâtel, for the Expo.\n\nIn March 2003 two evenings and two residencies opposing Dj Morpheus vs. El Diabolo (Réunion) and Dj Buddha vs. Tamm Ha Tamm (Réunion).\n\nDuring the festival, By-Larm, one evening in honour of Rennes and one improvised concert at the top of a glacier.\n\n18 and 19 June 2005 at Chaoyang Park. A huge stage, 16 artists in front of 16 000 spectators for the first open air festival in the Chinese capital.\n\nIn 2010, concerts took place in Moscow and Saint Petersburg. Hip-Hop, jazz and electronic music were the main events.\n\nCo-produced by the association Trans Musicales, Trans on Tour offers for the ninth year in a row, the opportunity for local bands to perform in the venues of the Great West.\nKick-starting the festival, the main aim of this tour is to assist artists in developing their professionalism. The high point of this tour is a performance at the Trans Musicales for each participating band. The aim is to challenge aspiring artists with a stream of events requiring total immersion in a professional framework.\nBeing on tour means many concert dates, in this case ending with a performance at a festival visited by professionals: this project is a life-size rehearsal for the life of a professional performer.\nTrans on Tour, conceived first as a boost to the local artistic scene, offers a wide range of tools to the bands: interviews at the beginning and the end of the tour, working time on the stage of the Ubu (local stage in Rennes), a regular follow-up by a specialised team, a promotional video and a dedicated stand at the festival's Village.\nDuring this tour with its twenty bands - out of which eight are on an accompaniment program – each concert concludes with the performance of an artist recommended by the host venue.\n\n"}
{"id": "49717598", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49717598", "title": "Six Days of São Paulo", "text": "Six Days of São Paulo\n\nThe Six Days of São Paulo was a six-day cycling event held in São Paulo, Brazil. Two editions of the event were held. The first was held in January 1957, won by Italian-Argentine team Severino Rigoni and Bruno Sivilotti; the second in March 1959, won by Brazilian duo Antonio Alba and Claudio Rosa.\n"}
{"id": "49523015", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49523015", "title": "Slovak Rally Championship", "text": "Slovak Rally Championship\n\nThe Slovak Rally Championship is a rallying series based in the Slovakia. The first championship was run in 1994.\n\n"}
{"id": "51113156", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51113156", "title": "SpaceX CRS-19", "text": "SpaceX CRS-19\n\nSpaceX CRS-19, also known as SpX-19, is a Commercial Resupply Service mission to the International Space Station currently manifested to be launched on November 2019. The mission was contracted by NASA and is flown by SpaceX.\n\nOn February 2016, it was announced that NASA had awarded a contract extension to SpaceX for five CRS additional missions (CRS-16 to CRS-20). In June 2016, a NASA Inspector General report had this mission manifested for December 2018. , this had been pushed back to November 2019.\n\nNASA has contracted for the CRS-19 mission from SpaceX and therefore determines the primary payload, date/time of launch, and orbital parameters for the Dragon space capsule. According to a 2018 press release, the external payload manifested for this flight is the NanoRacks Bishop Airlock Module.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29004214", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29004214", "title": "Spraoi", "text": "Spraoi\n\nSpraoi (pron. \"spree\") is a festival of international street theatre and world music which takes place for three days each August in the Irish city of Waterford. The festival takes its name from the Gaelic word \"spraoi\", or \"play\". The Waterford Spraoi has taken place each summer since 1992 and is now the largest festival event in Waterford. The main activity is centred on two main stages located in the John Roberts Square and William Vincent Wallace Plaza where various acts have been hosted including the Royal Drummers of Burundi and the Ukulele Orchestra of Great Britain, as well as more contemporary bands and musicians.\n\nThe Spraoi is a professional event that is also supported by more than 300 volunteers. The festival attracts audiences of over 80,000 to see events in music, art installations, storytelling, circus skills workshops, science and others.\n\n"}
{"id": "46802208", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46802208", "title": "Te Waka Toi awards", "text": "Te Waka Toi awards\n\nThe Te Waka Toi awards are the premier awards in the field of \"ngā toi Māori\" (Māori arts). They have been awarded by Creative New Zealand and predecessors since 1986.\n"}
{"id": "5234116", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5234116", "title": "Teatro Quirino", "text": "Teatro Quirino\n\nThe Teatro Quirino is an opera house in Rome opened in 1871. It hosted the premiere of Pietro Mascagni's operetta \"Sì\".\n"}
{"id": "56447072", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56447072", "title": "Toilet Revolution in China", "text": "Toilet Revolution in China\n\nToilet Revolution() is a campaign in China aiming at improving the sanitary conditions in Mainland China. In 2015, Xi Jinping, General Secretary of the Communist Party of China, announced that China is going to improve the sanitary conditions in tourist attractions, which once complained by foreign travelers. During 2015 to 2017, over 68,000 public toilets were reconstructed in China. In 2017, a re-construction to other 64,000 public toilets was planned.\n\nIn 2017, The campaign was expanded. The authorities are going to improve the poor sanitary conditions in rural area in China. State Media in China says that the poor sanitary conditions in rural area contribute to spreading of diseases like malaria and the campaign is aiming at solve such problems.\n\n"}
{"id": "20582055", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20582055", "title": "UFO sightings in the Philippines", "text": "UFO sightings in the Philippines\n\nThis is a list of alleged sightings of unidentified flying objects or UFOs in the Philippines. \n\nAntonio Israel, 37 claimed that he videotaped alleged \"small balls of light dancing frenetically in the evening sky over his Silver St neighborhood, Carmela Homes IV in Las Piñas on Sept. 3, 2000.\" The shouts of Israel’s neighbors can be heard on the video footage as the sight made them gasp in awe and disbelief. Israel claimed that the UFOs were also seen by a nearby barangay, and possibly residents of Parañaque City.\n\nMore than 10 UFOs were seen in Las Piñas at around 7 p.m. Saturday, August 28, 2004. Three children noticed two unusual reddish-etheric glares moving above some partly cloudy skies from their residence in Mabolo St., Verdant Acres, Pamplona, Las Piñas City.\n\nThe first object they saw headed east to where the moon sits around that time. Another two emerged and three more objects appeared from the western horizon. \"These unusual objects could not be mere airplanes because two of them were already pretty close to the moon,\" exclaimed 11-year-old Nica Canarias as she apparently had the impression that the objects were heading to the moon.\n\nNica, the eldest in the Canarias siblings and one of the early witnesses, immediately called her nine-year-old friend Adrian Israel. Adrian - whom the Canarias knew as a UFO experiencer is the son of Antonio (Tony) Israel, who took video footage of UFOs above the Las Piñas skies back on September 3, 2000.\n\nAdrian confirmed that these objects were similar to those he saw four years ago. So he rushed back to his house and prompted his older brothers, who then told their father Tony.\n\nTony rushed outside with his video camera. He was joined by his neighbors who watched while the objects moved erratically, jerking, floating and jumping in various directions.\n\nFrom 7:30 to 8:15pm, Israel was shooting videos of at least five UFOs - each emerging from the horizon at time intervals of approximately eight minutes.\n\nIsrael told ABS-CBN that he was now more composed in aiming his video camera at the subjects compared to his first encounter. He added, \"I learned a big lesson from the previous investigations made by the PAGASA UFO Investigating Team (Philippine Atmospheric, Geophysical and Astronomical Services Administration) and from criticisms telling that in my first UFO encounter, the video lacked panning that’s why there was no referential point to approximate size and distance. So from this chance, I think I panned well-enough and a probable estimation of the objects' altitude and size could be established.\"\n\nA couple of UFOs were seen in Bulacan in the first week of May. But it disappeared and never seen. On May 27, people caught a sight of two UFOs in the middle of the night. Same as the September 2000 UFO sightings, it was red and large like a basketball. Some people said that one of them was at the east and the other at the west, colliding each other and then disappeared.\n\nThere were UFO sightings in Cavite in 2011.\n\nAnother sighting occurred on May 16, 2018. Witness said he saw two luminous light which came from a distant star. It looked like it left the star and followed what seems like a diagonal route according to the witness.\nUnfortunately, no other person saw the phenomena thus, no one can confirm what the witness said.\n\nThe alleged \"UFO\" was sighted on evening of April 26, 2015 was quickly circulated across the Facebook. The video shows the motionless lights was apparently floating in the sky. According to the person who took the video, while they in Lubao-Pampanga diversion road, they notice that the lights later formed a letter \"V\". At first, they only saw three lights until the lights are appeared seven more. Later, the lights vanishes a little bit. The next morning, they returned to the area where the lights appeared in the sky; there is no buildings situated in this area. The video was shown by PAGASA, according to them, they estimate about 800–1000 meters high from the ground. Also, PAGASA states that is impossible that the lights coming from the airplane, hot air balloon, or drones due to its size of the lights. The lights appeared in 5–8 minutes based on the concept of eyewitnesses.\n"}
{"id": "12306600", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12306600", "title": "Untied aid", "text": "Untied aid\n\nUntied Aid\nis assistance given to developing countries which can be used to purchase goods and services in virtually all countries. It is contrasted with tied aid which stipulates that goods and services bought with it can only be purchased from the donor country or from a limited selection of countries.\n\nOne of the main arguments in favour of untied aid is that tied aid can create important distortions in the market by limiting the number of countries where the recipient can make purchases. These limitations impede the recipient country’s ability to find the most cost-effective way to spend the aid they receive. It is estimated that goods and services purchased with tied aid cost 15-30% more than comparable goods and services acquired with untied aid. Furthermore, tied aid often favours capital-intensive goods and advising primarily in the donor country’s area of expertise. That may lead recipient countries to make purchases which are inappropriate for realising their development goals.\n\nIn addition, the administration of tied aid requires larger bureaucracies in both the donor and recipient countries. Untying aid would presumably give recipient countries greater freedom to choose how they spend their resources, focusing on the goods and services they need most and allowing them to purchase from the most cost-effective sources. Untying aid would allow it to be more efficiently employed, effectively increasing its value.\n\n\nOECD Untied Aid\n"}
{"id": "12160226", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12160226", "title": "Wango Tango", "text": "Wango Tango\n\nWango Tango is an annual day-long concert produced by local Los Angeles radio station KIIS-FM. The concert series has been staged at various venues around southern California including Dodger Stadium in Los Angeles, the Rose Bowl in Pasadena, Angel Stadium in Anaheim, Verizon Wireless Amphitheatre in Irvine, Staples Center in Los Angeles and now at the StubHub Center (formerly Home Depot Center) in Carson, CA.\n\nThe concert series is noted for featuring several marquee performers in a day long series of sets. Often, noted celebrities are on hand to introduce each act. The concert concept was conceived by then marketing director Von Freeman and the General Manager of KIIS FM at the time, Roy Laughlin.\n\nBands listed in alphabetical order (or, if known, in reverse order of night's performance).\n\nThe 1998 event was held at Edison International Field of Anaheim on June 13.\n\n\nThe 1999 event was held at Dodger Stadium on June 12.\n\n\nThe 2000 event was held at Dodger Stadium on May 13.\n\n\nThe 2001 2-day event was held at Dodger Stadium on June 16–17.\n\n\nThe 2002 event was held at the Rose Bowl on June 15.\n\n\nThe 2003 event was held at the Rose Bowl on May 17.\n\n\nThe 2004 event was held at the Rose Bowl on May 15.\n\n\nThe 2005 event was held at Angel Stadium of Anaheim on May 14.\n\n\nThe 2006 event was held at Verizon Wireless Amphitheatre on May 7.\n\n\nThe 2007 event was held at Verizon Wireless Amphitheatre on May 12.\n\n\nThe 2008 event was held at Verizon Wireless Amphitheatre on May 10.\n\n\nThe Dey did not perform, so Prima J took their place instead.\n\nThe 2009 event was held at Verizon Wireless Amphitheatre on May 9.\n\n\nThe 2010 event was held at Staples Center on May 15.\n\n\n\nThe 2011 event was held at the Staples Center on May 14.\n\n\n\nThe 2012 event was held at the Home Depot Center on May 12.\n\n\n\nThe 2013 event was held at the Home Depot Center on May 11.\n\n\n\nThe 2014 event was held at the StubHub Center on May 10.\n\n\nThe 2015 event was held at the StubHub Center on May 9.\n\nHosted by Ryan Seacrest\n\n\nThe 2016 event was held at the StubHub Center on May 14, 2016.\n\n\nThe 2017 event was held at the StubHub Center on May 13, 2017.\n\n\n\nThe 2018 event was held at the Banc of California Stadium on June 2, 2018. Additionally, this edition of the event was added to the national iHeartRadio concert schedule and advertised nationally.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "524271", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=524271", "title": "Ward Hill Lamon", "text": "Ward Hill Lamon\n\nWard Hill Lamon (January 6, 1828 – May 7, 1893) was a personal friend and self-appointed bodyguard of U.S. President Abraham Lincoln. Lamon was famously absent the night Lincoln was assassinated at Ford's Theatre on April 14, 1865, having been sent by Lincoln to Richmond, Virginia.\n\nLamon's relation with Lincoln has been traced by Clint Clay Tilton in \"Lincoln and Lamon\". Lamon was born near Winchester, Virginia, studied medicine for two years, and moved to Danville, Illinois, when he was 19 to live with relatives. He attended the University of Louisville to receive his law degree and was admitted to the Illinois bar in 1851. In 1850, he moved back to Virginia, married Angelina Turner, and then returned to Illinois to practice law. Angelina was a daughter of Ehud and Priscilla Strode Turner, whose house at Beddington, West Virginia, was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 2002 as the Priscilla Strode Turner House. Angelina died in April 1859, leaving a daughter, Dorothy, who was raised in Danville by Lamon's sister, Mrs. William Morgan. In November 1860, Lamon married Sally Logan, daughter of Judge Stephen T. Logan. Logan had been Lincoln's law partner from 1851 to 1854.\n\nLamon's professional association with Lincoln started in 1852. Lamon became the prosecuting attorney for the Old Eighth Judicial district and subsequently moved to Bloomington, Illinois, in 1858. While Lamon had Southern sympathies and his hatred of abolitionism set him apart from Lincoln, they remained friends, despite their very different characters. Lamon joined the then-young Republican Party and campaigned for Lincoln in 1860. Lincoln was up against New York Senator William Seward for the Republican nomination, and Lamon proved his friendship by printing up extra tickets for the convention to fill the hall with Lincoln supporters. When Lincoln was elected President, Lamon hoped for a foreign diplomatic post, but received a letter from his friend that said, \"Dear Hill, I need you. I want you to go to Washington with me and be prepared for a long stay.\" Lamon then accompanied him as he traveled from Springfield, Illinois, to Washington D.C. in February 1861. This trip would prove to be eventful.\n\nLamon was a physically imposing man, and during the presidency, often took it upon himself to guard Lincoln. In February 1861, detective Allan Pinkerton uncovered a plot whereby Lincoln would be assassinated when he arrived in Baltimore on his way to his inauguration in Washington. Pinkerton advised Lincoln that rather than ride publicly through the city between train stations as planned, he should take a midnight train straight through to Washington. Lamon was the sole friend chosen to accompany him.\n\nLamon and Pinkerton famously clashed over the President-elect's protection. Lamon offered Lincoln \"a Revolver and a Bowie Knife\" but Pinkerton protested that he \"would not for the world have it said that Mr. Lincoln had to enter the national Capital armed\". The two men further disagreed over Lamon's desire to alert the \"Chicago Journal\" to their early arrival in Washington because Pinkerton, more prudently, wished not to publicize their change of plans. In Pinkerton's account of the plot, he wrote disparagingly of Lamon, referring to him as a \"brainless, egotistical fool\". Pinkerton allowed William Herndon to copy his report, which was obtained by Lamon when he purchased Herndon's papers to write his \"Life of Abraham Lincoln\". However, when Herndon first requested copies of Pinkerton's report, Pinkerton agreed only on the condition that certain material be kept confidential, specifically naming his remarks about Lamon.\n\nLamon's description detailed the manipulations of Pinkerton. Months before Lincoln traveled through Baltimore, Samuel M. Felton, president of the Philadelphia, Wilmington and Baltimore Railroad, had hired Pinkerton. There was unemployment in Baltimore. It is conceivable that Felton's security concerns may have been about workers destroying bridges to create jobs for themselves and that homeless persons were living near railroad facilities.\n\nPinkerton began an entrapment scheme by opening an office in Baltimore. Pinkerton publicized his duplicity and attracted dissatisfied elements. Lamon asserts that the motive of Pinkerton was to increase the demand for his service and profits. Pinkerton's agents were reputed to frequent bars and brothels to utilize local information sources. Barr's saloon on South Street was one of the bars they patronized. The agents established that intemperate persons were not modulating their speech about politics while drinking with the targets of their investigation. Informants were paid money.\n\nThere were disputes among the power brokers accompanying Lincoln on his journey to Washington as to who had more common sense or the most courage to assist the President-elect. Pinkerton, accompanied by a female spy, met Lincoln in Philadelphia on 21 February and advised him of the need for increased security because he heard credible stories from intoxicated sources. In the coded messages of Pinkerton's operatives, apparently the female spy was \"Plums\" and Lincoln was \"Nuts\".\n\nLincoln was secreted through Baltimore during the night. The train carrying Mrs. Lincoln and others went through Baltimore unharmed the next day, despite the claim of Pinkerton that hand grenades and fire bombs would be used to attack the train.\n\nLamon summed up his disbelief in the plot in the biography: \"It is perfectly manifest that there was no conspiracy, – no conspiracy of a hundred, of fifty, of twenty, of three; no definite purpose in the heart of even one man to murder Mr. Lincoln in Baltimore.\"\n\nShortly after his inauguration in 1861, Lincoln appointed Lamon United States Marshal of the District of Columbia; he resigned his commission in June 1865. One of Lamon's first acts as Marshal was to visit Fort Sumter, South Carolina in March 1861, to meet with Major Robert Anderson, commander of the fort, and Governor Francis Pickens. Reports vary on Lamon's responsibilities with regard to that visit.\n\nOne account chronicles that Lamon was just one of a few emissaries sent by Lincoln, the first being Captain Gustavus Fox, who went to determine if Fort Sumter could be relieved by sea. Lamon was sent concurrently with another Illinois friend of Lincoln's, Stephen Hurlbut, with the implication that Lamon was sent to take the focus off of Hurlbut's visit as Hurlbut was there to measure anti-Union sentiment in Charleston (he discovered it was high). Lamon incurred Lincoln's displeasure by meeting with Governor Pickens and informing him of the government's interest in withdrawing from Fort Sumter.\n\nAnother account represents Lamon as traveling with the full confidence of Lincoln: \"It called for courage and the trip was made over the objection of Secretary Seward. 'Mr. Secretary,' said Lincoln, 'I have known to be in many a close place and he's never been in one he didn't get out of. By Jing. I'll risk it. Go, Lamon, and God bless you.'\" Yet another account characterizes Lamon as being under Seward's influence and angering Lincoln: \"It was under Seward's influence that he actually told Governor Pickens that he had come to arrange for the withdrawal of the garrison, and that after his return he wrote the governor that he would be back in a few days to assist with the evacuation. He also gave Major Anderson the impression that no relief would be attempted. All this was outrageous, and when Lincoln heard of Lamon's letter to Pickens, he indignantly denied that the man possessed any authority to make such a statement.\" Missions to Fort Sumter aside, the marshal's position was not an onerous one and afforded Lamon legitimate access to the President. What Lamon took upon himself, however, was to represent himself as Lincoln's bodyguard, which he did out of friendship rather than the requirements of the position.\n\nLamon took this so seriously that his friend Leonard Swett recounted that in the three months he stayed with Lamon in the Fall of 1864, he saw Lamon leave every night to go to the White House where he patrolled the grounds. Presidential secretary John Hay adds to this portrait of devotion by noting in his diary that one night he observed Lamon wrap himself up in his cloak and lie down to sleep in front of Lincoln's bedroom door. Lamon was not in Washington on the night of Lincoln's assassination, being on assignment in Richmond. In his \"Recollections of Abraham Lincoln,\" Lamon reveals that before he left for Richmond, he implored the president not to \"go out at night after [he] was gone, \"particularly to the theatre.\"\" After the assassination, Lamon accompanied the funeral procession to Springfield, Illinois.\n\nAfter Lincoln's death, Lamon published two books (one posthumously) about the late President. The more famous of the two is a biography that was largely ghostwritten by Chauncey Black, the son of former Attorney General of the United States Jeremiah Black. The elder Black was Lamon's law partner from 1865 until 1879. The book, published in 1872 by James R. Osgood and Company of Boston under the title \"The Life of Abraham Lincoln; From his Birth to his Inauguration as President\", contained allegations and personal information about Lincoln that were deemed scandalous by nineteenth century society. It was a financial failure. One of the most shocking claims was that Lincoln was not a man of faith: \"Mr. Lincoln was never a member of any church, nor did he believe in the divinity of Christ, or the inspiration of the Scriptures in the sense understood by evangelical Christians.\" The basis of the book was the papers of William Herndon, which Lamon purchased for either $2,000 or $4,000. Shortly after his death, Lamon's daughter collected and edited many of his unpublished writings about Lincoln into a biography of the president, \"Recollections of Abraham Lincoln\" (1895). In \"Recollections\", Lamon reversed his earlier denial of the Baltimore plot of 1861, writing, \"It is now an acknowledged fact that there was never a moment from the day he crossed the Maryland line, up until the time of his assassination, that he was not in danger of death by violence, and that his life was spared until the night of the 14th of April, 1865, only through the ceaseless and watchful care of the guards thrown around him.\" The authenticity of this book is generally more highly regarded by the scholarly community than is the earlier volume by Lamon and Black.\n\nLamon had tendered his resignation as Marshal of the District of Columbia in June 1865. In April 1866, Lamon purchased the funeral rail car that transported Lincoln's remains to Springfield, Illinois. The price he paid for the rail car was a little less than $10,000. He was offered the cabinet position of Postmaster General but declined. He formed his law partnership with Jeremiah Black (referenced above), and the law practice dissolved in 1879 due to the poor reception of \"The Life of Lincoln\" ghostwritten by Black's son Chauncey. In 1879, Lamon and his wife Sally moved to Boulder, Colorado, and later to Denver where he formed a friendship with poet Eugene Field. The ill health of both Lamon and Sally caused them to return to Washington in 1886, and in 1889, they traveled to Europe for the spas and subsequently Sally died in Brussels in 1892.\nLamon moved to Martinsburg, West Virginia, where he was cared for by his daughter Dorothy until his death on May 7, 1893. He was 65 years old. Lamon was buried in Gerrardstown, West Virginia, in the Presbyterian Cemetery. (Sally had been buried in Springfield, Illinois.) The home built by Lamon's cousin Joseph in Danville, Illinois, has become a museum.\n\nSome contemporaries and biographers of Lincoln tend to treat Lamon with a certain casual contempt. In 1862, during his tenure as Marshal, a number of senators called for his removal from office. Although Lincoln refused this demand, the Senate was able to decrease some of Lamon's official duties and thus reduce his income. Allan Pinkerton's opinion of him was voiced above, during the Baltimore Plot. Historian Allan Nevins in \"The War for the Union\" characterizes Lamon as \"a big loquacious bumbler of more self-assurance than discretion\". Even one of Nevin's footnotes that discusses the controversial trip to Charleston in 1861 further dismisses Lamon: \"Lamon's papers in the Huntington Library throw no light on the subject except to confirm his general ineptness.\" Some accounts are more sympathetic to Lamon, however. In 1931, Clint Clay Tilton repeatedly affirmed Lamon's generosity and good humor and dubbed him \"the Cavalier\". When Lamon campaigned for Lincoln's re-election in 1864, a song was written with this verse remaining:\n\nA great good man is Ward Hill Lamon;<br>\nAbe is Pythias; he is Damon;<br> \nHe's the President's protector,<br>\nHe's his political protector,<br>\nWho?<br>\nWard Hill Lamon. Ward Hill Lamon.\n\nLamon's story is told in the film \"Saving Lincoln\", which details the threats against Lincoln from Lamon's point of view.\n\n\n\n"}
