{"id": "27961285", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27961285", "title": "4Q246", "text": "4Q246\n\n4Q246, also known as the Son of God Text or the Aramaic Apocalypse, is one of the Dead Sea Scrolls found at Qumran which is notable for an early messianic mention of a son of God. The text is an Aramaic language fragment first acquired in 1958 from cave 4 at Qumran, and the major debate on this fragment has been on the identity of this \"son of God\" figure.\n\nThe Dead Sea Scrolls were written in Hebrew, Greek and Aramaic. According to the time period of when the Son of God text was written, circa 100 BCE, it is highly probably that this Aramaic fragment was written using Jewish Palestinian Aramaic instead of official Aramaic. Jewish Palestinian Aramaic was used between the time of 200 BCE and 200 CE, when sub-dialects were used to write the scrolls found in Qumran.\n\nThis text is written in fine Herodian script, which is easily deciphered. The importance of this text to the tenets and theology of the Qumran community cannot be overestimated. Its language reveals it to be apocalyptic; it speaks of distress that will come upon the land and of the disastrous reign of enemies.\n\nThe Son of God page has a short text. Column 1 (right hand) is damaged and requires some interpretative restoration. This is one of the smallest fragments found at cave 4, and people may wonder how big it is, and what it looks like. The text includes phrases such as \"son of God\" and \"the Most High\", so the two references of Daniel 7:13-14 and Luke 1:32-33, 35 are considered to be related to the fragmental phrases. It is impossible to estimate exactly how long the complete scroll may have been, but the column length is only about half that of a normal size scroll. Paleographically, the text was said by Józef Milik (according to Fitzmyer) to date from the latter third of the first century BCE, a judgment with which Puech agrees. The letter forms are those of \"early formal Herodian\" script, although Milik's and Puech's dates may be too narrow.\n\nBelow is the full text, formatted to reflect the actual text on the scroll. It is read from left to right, and the bracketed sections are the unknown parts where the scroll has been damaged:\n\nOne of the major debates among scholars on the son of God text is the identity of the figure called the \"son of God.\" The text says he comes during \"tribulation,\" his father \"will be ruler over the land\" and this figure \"will be called The Great,\" and these two will reign for \"a few years\" while nations \"trample\" each other. While some say that this is an \"eschatological prophet\" or \"messianic figure,\" others argue that this is \"a negative figure,\" possibly a \"Syrian king,\" such as Antiochus IV Epiphanes who is described in Daniel 7, an Antichrist figure.\n\nWhen part of 4Q246 was first published in 1974, the phrase \"he will be called the son of God, and the son of the Most High\" (col. 2:1) recalled to many scholars the language of the gospels when describing Jesus: \"He will be great, and will be called the Son of the Most High\" (Luke 1:32a) and he \"will be called the Son of God\" (v.35b). This added proof in some scholars' eyes that the Jewish belief was that the coming Messiah would be a king who brought peace, and would be \"called by Second Temple Jews the 'Son of God'\". But others viewed this figure \"as a villain, one who usurps the place of God but is subsequently overthrown by the \"people of God\", who have God on their side.\" When the full text was published, more researchers concluded that the latter interpretation was correct.\n\nThere are several arguments for a messianic figure. First is the previously discussed parallel in Luke 1. There is also a messianic parallel in 2 Samuel 7:12-14, where God tells David that from his offspring God will establish his eternal kingdom, and God \"will be his father, and he will be \"[God's] son\"\" (italics added). Then, unlike the passage in Daniel 7, where the beast in the vision (Antiochus IV) is judged by God (vv. 11,26), the titles given to the figure in this manuscript are \"never disputed, and no judgement is passed on this figure after the people of God arises.\" These scholars also argue that Col. 2:4 is ambiguous, and could mean that the figure \"will raise up the people of God\", which makes him a savior figure, who could be present in times of tribulation.\n\nGiven the context of the Hellenistic period and oppressive rule, many conclude the text is referring to Antiochus IV Epiphanes a Syrian tyrant from 170-164 BCE. The title \"Epiphanes\" (Greek for \"appearance\") \"encapsulates the notion of a human king as God manifest\", a boastful name that parallels this text's names, and the boastfulness of the little horn in Daniel 7.\n\nThe son of God text fragment has a complete second column and a fragmented first column suggesting that it was originally connected to another column. Since the fragment is so small it is dangerous to come to a solid conclusion about this figure; a complete version of the text would likely solve this debate.\n"}
{"id": "42804091", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42804091", "title": "AMCHA Initiative", "text": "AMCHA Initiative\n\nThe AMCHA Initiative (founded 2011) is a nonprofit organization based in California which seeks to investigate, document, educate about, and combat antisemitism at institutions of higher education in the United States. The Initiative was founded by University of California Santa Cruz lecturer Tammi Rossman-Benjamin and University of California Los Angeles Professor Emeritus Leila Beckwith.\n\nThe term \"Amcha\" is Hebrew for \"your people\" or \"your nation\" and intends to connote grassroots, the masses, and ordinary people.\n\nAMCHA Initiative's mission is to organizes and carry out campaigns to address campus antisemitism, to include communicating with university, state, and federal leaders about the issue and potential solutions, and engaging grassroots activists; and collaborating with other legal and educational organizations.\n\nThe organization identifies antisemitism using the U.S. State Department’s “Defining Anti-Semitism\" criteria, to which the organization adds two defining parameters including \"Promotes boycott, divestment, sanctions against Israel\" and \"Targets Jewish students for discrimination, harassment, or intimidation\".\n\nAMCHA Initiative's site states five key areas of activism: \n\n\nThe organization produced a number of research reports, including annual reports on antisemitic activity at over 100 schools with the largest population of Jewish students starting for data collected in 2015. The reports cited on the organization’s website date back to 2013.\n\nReports in 2018: In August, the organization released its annual report of 2017 data. The Jewish Journal published that the report found that, “anti-Israel harassment on college campuses in 2017 were more likely to create an antagonistic environment against Jewish students on campus than ‘classic’ anti-Semitic incidents… [because] while ‘classic anti-Semitic incidents’ such as…swastikas…vastly outnumbered the anti-Israel incidents…only 23% showed ‘intent to harm’ while 94% of anti-Israel incidents showed such intent.…Forty-four percent of the anti-Israel acts with intent to harm involved attempts to censor pro-Israel speech.” According to the Washington Free Beacon, the report also found that, “76 percent of recorded incidents against Jewish and pro-Israel students ‘involved behavior that directly and personally targeted students or groups for denigration or discrimination in order to ostracize and exclude them from campus life.’\" The report revealed that “anti-Israel campus activities are no longer intent on harming Israel, but increasingly, and alarmingly, they are intent on harming pro-Israel members of the campus community.” The report concluded by pointing out differences in university treatment of the different types of anti-Semitism the report claimed occurred, and recommended \"equitable\" treatment: “Despite the fact that acts of Israel-related anti-Semitism appear to be the larger contributor to a hostile environment for Jewish students, university administrators have generally been far less likely to adequately address these Israel-related incidents than they have acts of classic anti-Semitism. In large part this is due to university administrators recognizing that classic anti-Semitism may violate state or federal anti-discrimination law and most schools’ peer-on-peer harassment policies which prohibit the harassment of students based on characteristics such as race, color and gender, as well as religion and ethnicity. However, university administrators rarely recognize anti-Zionist harassment as a form of unlawful discrimination, because they see it as motivated by political considerations rather than ethnic or religious ones. The reality, however, is that harassment is harassment. The effect of pervasive intolerant, exclusionary and harassing behavior on students is the same, regardless of the motivation of the perpetrator or the identity of the victim. And the abhorrent behavior that prevents students from an education free from harassment must be addressed, and addressed equitably.”\n\nReports in 2017: There were two reports produced in 2017. In April, the organization released an annual report of 2016 data that found, according to a Washington Times op-ed, “a rapidly growing correlation between anti-Semitism and pro-BDS activism. Campuses with active anti-Israel groups such as Students for Justice in Palestine are overwhelmingly more likely to experience anti-Semitic activity compared to schools where BDS or other anti-Israel activism has no presence.” The second report studied the impact of academic boycotters of Israel on U.S. campuses, although the authors of the report stressed that they “are not suggesting that anti-Israel events or BDS speakers should be prohibited – academic freedom makes them permissible.” According to the Washington Free Beacon, the report found that “[o]f the nearly 1,000 pro-boycott professors included in the AMCHA Initiative study, 70 percent were associated with gender studies, ethnic studies, or Middle East studies…Those departments saturated with pro-BDS faculty were subsequently far more likely to bring BDS-supportive programming to campus than their counterparts with no boycotters…Gender studies units with one or more pro-boycott lecturers were 12 times more likely to sponsor such events than their counterparts with no pro-BDS professors…Middle East and ethnic studies with pro-BDS faculty were five and 10 times more likely, respectively. Overall, close to 90 percent of anti-Zionist or pro-BDS programming is brought to campuses by departments, centers, or institutes associated with gender, ethnic, or Mid-East disciplines.” \n\nReports in 2015 & 2016: AMCHA produced two research reports on antisemitic activity at over 100 schools with the largest population of Jewish students, one for data collected in 2015 and one for data collected in the first half of 2016. According to the Washington Post, “The study, which examined anti-Semitic activity from January – June 2016 on more than 100 public and private colleges and universities with the largest Jewish undergraduate populations, found that 287 anti-Semitic incidents occurred at 64 schools during that time period, reflecting a 45% increase from the 198 incidents reported in the first six months of 2015. Moreover, the study finds, as it did in 2015: [A]nti-Semitism was twice as likely to occur on campuses where BDS (Boycott, Divestment and Sanctions campaign) was present, eight times more likely to occur on campuses with at least one active anti-Zionist student group such as SJP [Students for Justice in Palestine], and six times more likely to occur on campuses with one or more faculty boycotters. In fact, schools with more faculty boycotters and more BDS activity tended to have more incidents of anti-Semitic activity.” According to the Washington Free Beacon, “More than half of the schools included in the study experienced an anti-Semitic incident or activity targeted against pro-Israel Jews.” \n\nThe organization published the first publicly available database of campus anti-Semitic activity, starting with activity in 2015. As of October 19, 2018, the organization listed 434 incidents in 2018, 653 incidents in 2017, 642 incidents in 2016 and 468 incidents in 2015 documented in the database The database and other trackers by the organization have been used by media to cite anti-Semitic activity and swastika sightings on various campuses including at Stanford University, Bowdoin College as well as across the nation. In September 2018, the organization announced that it changed its database to enable users \"to tailor a search by city, state, zip code, geographical region, year, date range, university, and category. Some of the incident categories include physical assault, discrimination, destruction of Jewish property, genocidal expression, suppression of speech/movement/assembly, verbal assault, intimidation, harassment, condoning terrorism, comparing Jews to Nazis, and accusing Jews of inventing or exaggerating the Holocaust. Users can also search and run customized reports by keyword, such as 'swastika.'\" The organization claimed in the announcement, \"AMCHA is the only organization that makes its database of all reported incidents of campus anti-Semitism accessible to the public.\"\n\nThe organization published a webpage that documents published quotes detailing the experiences of Jewish students on America’s campuses who have been \"targeted, intimidated or frightened because they are Jewish.\" The quotes were collected starting in 2014. The webpage had more than 100 students, located at 47 different schools, in 20 states as of June 24, 2015. The organization gathered the testimonies from publications nationwide including school papers.\n\nThe organization led a year-long campaign to get the University of California Board of Regents to formally recognize current manifestations of campus antisemitism which, according to AMCHA Initiative, include anti-Zionism’s participation in anti-Jewish hostilities. On March 22, 2016, the University of California Regents passed a Statement of Principles Against Intolerance which included the statement, “Anti-Semitism, anti-Semitic forms of anti-Zionism and other forms of discrimination have no place at the University of California.” When this statement passed, AMCHA co-founder Tammi Rossman Benjamin was vocal in her enthusiasm stating in a New York Times article that the UC system was the first to specifically recognize “that there are forms of anti-Zionism that are anti-Semitic. That’s huge.” The campaign involved, according to the organization, uniting over 50 organizations in support of the final statement including Alpha Epsilon Pi Fraternity, American Association of Jewish Lawyers and Jurists, CUFI on Campus, Israeli-American Council (IAC), Scholars for Peace in the Middle East, Simon Wiesenthal Center, Stand With Us and the Zionist Organization of America. According to AMCHA Initiative’s list of support for the Statement, mainstream Jewish organizations such as Anti-Defamation League, American Jewish Council and Hillel International likewise expressed support. Additionally, more than 4,000 UC Stakeholders as well as California rabbis and anti-Semitism scholars voiced support.\n\nIn 2014 Students for Justice in Palestine and allied groups at UCLA asked candidates for student government positions to sign a statement pledging that they will not go on any trip to Israel sponsored by three Jewish organizations. In response, AMCHA Initiative represented seven organizations - including Institute for Black Solidarity with Israel, the Lawfare Project, Scholars for Peace in the Middle East, Simon Wiesenthal Center, Stand With Us and the Zionist Organization of America – in a joint statement before the Board of Regents, asking the Regents, President Janet Napolitano and UCLA Chancellor Gene Block to \"condemn bigotry and review university rules regarding faculty and departmental sponsorship of events of a partisan political nature.\"\n\nAMCHA also coordinated a joint letter to the Regents, Napolitano and Block from the same seven organizations. Soon thereafter, UCLA Chancellor Block and UC President Napolitano condemned the pledge and asked the VP of Student Affairs to intervene.\n\nIn 2013 AMCHA said that Mohammad G. Hammad, President of General Union of Palestine Students, a university-sanctioned student group at San Francisco State University (SFSU) was making public threats against SFSU Jewish students, Israelis, and any person who supports Israel. The Jewish Press published what it said was a Tumbler page with a photo of Hammad holding a knife, with the caption, “I love this blade... it makes me want to stab an Israeli soldier” News sources said that Hammad identified an Israeli soldier and said, “the only “peace” I’m interested in is the head of this f**cking scum on a plate, as well as the heads of all others like her, and all others who support the IDF” and “The Liberation of Palestine can only come through the destruction and decimation of this Israeli plague and it can’t possibly come soon enough.” He said that he hopes members of the student group “trip down the stairs and break their necks.” \n\nAMCHA gave that material to university officials, the FBI, the San Francisco Police Department and the San Francisco District Attorney. The University said that Hammad was no longer enrolled at SFSU, without specifying a reason.\n\nAMCHA has drawn attention to incidents that it states are inappropriate uses of public/university resources to participate in politics that AMCHA identifies as anti-semitic, including the promotion of the BDS (\"boycott, divest and sanction\") movement. In 2013 the Initiative drew attention to California State University Northridge mathematics professor David Klein's pro-BDS website on his CSUN space. Over the course of 2012-2013, the organization submitted memos and legal complaints to California authorities regarding Klein's page, but the university authorities and the California Attorney General declined to take action, citing lack of evidence of misuse and free speech protections.\n\nIn 2014, AMCHA filed a California Public Records Act inquiry, regarding that San Francisco State University (SFSU) Professor Rabab Abdulhadi had received more than $7,000 to fly to Jordan, the West Bank and Israel to meet with individuals who are members of Hamas and Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine, both considered terrorist organizations by the United States. In response, AMCHA Initiative coordinated a letter from 8 organizations to CSU Chancellor White, SFSU President Wong and other University administrators declaring this an abuse of university and taxpayer funds and urging an investigation. The letter was sent from AMCHA Initiative, Brandeis Center for Human Rights Under Law, Institute for Black Solidarity with Israel, Proclaiming Justice to the Nations, Scholars for Peace in the Middle East, Simon Wiesenthal Center, Stand With Us and the Zionist Organization of America. An SFSU spokesman issued in reply a statement that \"we conclude that the allegations made against Professor Abdulhadi have no merit...Faculty can and do communicate with others relevant to their research, communicating by various methods that can involve travel.\"\n\nThe organization believes some events that were funded by university departments or administrative offices contained anti-Semitic content. In 2014, three UC schools – UCLA, UC Riverside and UC Davis - sponsored official events featuring Omar Barghouti, the founder and vocal advocate of the academic boycott of Israel. AMCHA alleged that Barghouti's presentations violated UC policies on partisan use of campus resources, and contributed to a hostile environment for Jewish students by using \"blood libel\" in his speech. UC leadership responded by stating that they were not in support of a boycott of Israel, but considered Barghouti's presentations to be free speech.\n\nIn response, AMCHA delivered a petition to members of the California Senate and Assembly education committees, demanding that the legislators stop UC faculty from using taxpayer dollars to promote anti-Semitism. In addition, AMCHA co-founders went before the UC Board of Regents, the governing body of all UC schools, to ask the Regents to intervene.\n\nIn 2013, a San Francisco State University student group, the General Union of Palestine Students (GUPS), hosted an event honoring an Edward Said memorial where participants could make posters that said, “My heroes have always killed colonizers” as well as images of a convicted hijacker Leila Khaled holding a gun. AMCHA said that the posters of “My heroes have always killed colonizers” meant that the colonizers were Jews. The GUPS event received several thousands of dollars of funding from the university and was co-sponsored by the Arab and Muslim Ethnicities Initiative (AMED) in the College of Ethnic Studies.\n\nWhen AMCHA Initiative uncovered the posters its response was to alert President Wong about the event. Thereafter, President Wong issued a statement condemning the posters and stating, “celebrating violence or promoting intolerance, bigotry, antisemitism or any other form of hate mongering” would not be tolerated at SFSU. He also ensured “a safe and civil campus environment” for Jewish students.\n\nFollowing AMCHA publishing a list of Middle East Studies Professors who had endorsed an academic boycott of Israel, a group of professors signed a statement opposing AMCHA’s actions as they felt it would lead to some students boycotting professors who endorsed a boycott of Israel.\n"}
{"id": "9196090", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9196090", "title": "Aclla", "text": "Aclla\n\nAclla (Quechua: aklla or aqlla, pl. aqllakuna), also called Chosen Women, Virgins of the Sun, and Wives of the Inca, were sequestered women in the Inca Empire. They were virgins, chosen at about age 10. They performed several services. They were given in marriage to men who had distinguished themselves in service to the empire; they produced luxury items, weaving fine cloth, preparing ritual food, and brewing the chicha (beer) drunk at religious festivals; and some, the most \"perfect\", were selected as human sacrifices for religious rites. Others lived out their lives in a monastic environment.\n\nThe Inca Empire (1438-1533) created, or adopted from earlier cultures, several institutions to manage the labor of the people in the territory it ruled. Among the institutions were the mit'a, the yanakuna, and the aclla.\n\nEach year the Inca government sent out representatives, called apupanaca, to collect girls eight to ten years old from the provinces as tribute for the state. The girls selected were mostly from the higher social classes, frequently coming from the families of non-Inca provincial leaders. The girls were sent for training in provincial centers to live together in complexes of buildings called acllawasi (house of the chosen women) which might have up to 200 women in residence.\n\nThe girls were trained for about 4 years in religion, spinning and weaving, preparation of food, and brewing chicha. They then became mamakuna (priestesses) and were married to prominent men or assigned to religious duties. The most skilled and physically perfect were sent to Cuzco, the capital of the empire, and might become secondary wives or concubines of the Inca emperor and other noblemen. A few were destined to be sacrificed in a religious ceremony called capacocha. Recently discovered archaeological evidence contained the remains of a male \"aclla\".\n\nThe use of \"acllas\" was tied to kinship and the maintenance of hegemony within the empire. The family of a chosen \"aclla\" would be raised in social status. The \"acllas\" themselves would honour the main Inca gods and be honoured in return. Those not sacrificed at Cuzco might be returned to their own communities and be sacrificed there. This would create a ritual bond between Cuzco and the local region; Cuzco had taken a member of the local community and made them a representative of the central state. The \"aclla\" had been blessed by the Emperor and became the guardian of the local huacas. This signaled the entrance of the empire into local tradition and religion. This tying of the centre to the periphery was one of the most important aspects of the sacrifice of \"acllas\". The story of Tanta Carhua is one such account of the process of binding the centre and the periphery together.\n\nColonial documents contain record of Tanta Carhua, who was sacrificed as a \"capacocha\" in her home ayllu of Urcon. After visiting Cuzco and being honoured by the emperor, Tanta Carhua was credited with saying “You can finish with me now because I could not be more honoured than by the feasts which they celebrated for me in Cuzco.\" Upon her return home, Tanta’s father became the curaca of his ayllu. Tanta was deified and her “sacrifice... ritually asserted her father’s, and father’s descendants’, new role as a nexus between Urcon and Cuzco while dramatizing the community’s subordination to Cuzco.”\n"}
{"id": "10682381", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10682381", "title": "Aimachi", "text": "Aimachi\n\nAimachi is a Tenrikyo church based in Nagoya, Japan. Outside Japan, Aimachi is most known for its marching music and color guard ensembles. A selection from their 130-member marching band compete internationally as an indoor percussion ensembles, indoor marching ensembles, baton twirling, and winter guards. The group rehearses outside of Nagoya in Handa City.\n\nThe Aimachi Band was started in 1962 with four members. The founder of the band, Kiyokazu Sekine, is the son of Aimachi's founder and continues to serve as the group's director. In 1998, the Aimachi marching band became the All-Japan National Champion in the All-Japan Marching and Baton Twirling championships for the first time in their history. They have gone on to win in January 1998, 2000, 2001, 2003, 2006, 2007, December 2008, 2009, 2012 and 2015, and performing in exhibition in December 2007 and 2010. They also won the WAMSB World Championship for Marching Showbands in 2002.\n\nSince 1990, Americans on Aimachi's instructional and design staff have included Gordon Henderson (Band Director), Mitch Rogers, Michael Gaines, Jim Campbell, Tim Fairbanks, Erik Johnson, Scott Kretzer, Brett Kuhn, Jim Moore, Martin Rhees, Dean Westman, William Plenk, Christian Carichner, Stephen Mason, Aidan Ritchie and Kevin LeBoeuf.\n\nIn July 2011, the Aimachi Band traveled to Switzerland to perform at the Basel Tattoo. In May 2012, the Aimachi Band celebrated its 50th anniversary with a show performed at the Nagoya Century Hall entitled \"Evolution.\" Other international performances have included those in Thailand, Taiwan and Shanghai.\n\nThis group performs in many competitions across Japan, the Winter Guard International championships, and other exhibition performances throughout Asia. At WGI Percussion, they placed 3rd in 2000, 2006 and 2008 in the Independent World Division. A group celebrating their cultural origins, they deviate from conventional battery percussion by adding taiko drums, shime-daiko drums, and the odaiko drum to a traditionally western activity. They add many elements from their award-winning Winter Guard into their performances, including flags, rifles, sabres, batons, and dance sections to offer a visual package unique in the percussion circuit.\n\nPercussion at WGI Independent World Class\n\n2000 (3rd Place)\n\n2003 “Onimusha – The Voice of the Soul” (6th Place)\n\n2006 “Go” (3rd Place)\n\n2008 “Drum Roll” (3rd Place)\n\n2010 “Ice” (7th Place)\n\n2013 “Ninja - Shadow Warrior” (6th Place)\n\nAimachi's winterguard uses conventional flags and weapons, but also adds the unique baton twirling to the performance. Their 2007 WGI bronze medal performance featured World Champion Baton Twirler Seishi Inagaki. Their history in WGI color guard competition is as follows: 1996 (18th place), 1999 (10th place), 2002 (10th place), 2004 (7th place), 2007 (tying for third in the Independent World Championships along with Blessed Sacrament) behind Fantasia and Pride of Cincinnati, 2009 (3rd place), 2012 (4th place), 2015 (4th place), and 2017 (2nd place).\n\nColor Guard at WGI Independent World Class\n\n1996 “KODO” (18th Place)\n\n1999 “Candide” (10th Place)\n\n2002 “Appalachian Morning” (10th Place)\n\n2004 “MINUANO” (7th Place) with Seishi Inagaki\n\n2007 “My Heart and I” (tied for 3rd Place) with Seishi Inagaki\n\n2009 “Beloved” (3rd Place)\n\n2012 \"Hana\" (4th Place)\n\n2015 \"1000 Kranes\" (4th place)\n\n2017 \"May the Music Never End\" (2nd place)\n\nIn May 2014, the Aimachi Band performed at Winter Guard International Championships in Dayton, Ohio, as a WGI Winds exhibition group. On April 17, 2016, Aimachi won the WGI Winds International World Division with a show entitled \"Ascension,\" becoming the first group from outside of the U.S. to win any division at WGI Finals since its inception in 1977.\n\n\nFrom its beginnings as a small jazz band called the Merry Young Man Band, the Aimachi Band has become one of the best-known marching bands around the world. The Band's founder was Sekine Kiyokazu, who continues in the role of director to this day.\n\nThe foundations from where the Band developed from are closely tied to the introduction of the Tenri religion to the Nagoya area by Sekine Kiyokazu's father, Sekine Toyomatsu. The elder Sekine moved to Tokoname outside of Nagoya in 1923 to visit families in the area that were interested in the Tenri religion. In 1926, he moved into Nagoya and began holding services in a small rented house. In 1930, as the church began to grow, he moved into another small house on the grounds of what is now the main Aimachi Church in Nagoya.\n\n\nOn January 23, 1943, Sekine Kiyokazu was born in Nagoya. Sekine was exposed to music at a very young age. His father was a strong proponent of introducing traditional Japanese music into the Tenri church services. His father also really enjoyed attending kabuki performances, and his mother's family was involved in building traditional Japanese instruments used in the performances. So music was all around the young Kiyokazu from the very beginning.\n\nAs an elementary school student, Sekine's music teacher, Mr. Watanabe, taught him singing and how to play the xylophone. Influenced by one of his friends who played marimba, Sekine later attended an after school program, taught by Suiho Yoshikawa, that specialized in teaching students to play the marimba.\n\nIn 1952, at the age of nine, Sekine entered a xylophone contest that was broadcast live on a local radio station. His third-place finish in the contest encouraged him to continue his study of music. One of the experiences that made a strong impression on Sekine was a display by the local fire department. In addition to a dazzling water demonstration by the fireman, they also had a band that performed and started to make Sekine think that he would like to lead a band someday.\n\n\nThe Aimachi Band came into existence at a time following World War II that Japanese culture was greatly influenced by the presence of American military bases throughout the country. All things American, whether it be sports (baseball, which had first been introduced to Japan in 1872, had a surge of popularity following the war), movies or music, became very popular throughout Japan. American military bases all had radio stations broadcasting music such as jazz, American popular music, and band music.\n\nFollowing World War II, the Tenri religion in Nagoya quickly grew in membership, and in 1955, the present day Aimachi Church was built. In addition to religious services, the Church began to offer a variety of clubs for activities such as singing, karate and other sports. In 1962, as a 19-year-old Aichi University student studying law, Sekine Kiyokatsu became the director of all of these activities for the Aimachi Church. It was at this time that Sekine formed the Merry Young Man Band, a small combo that played jazz and popular music. The name arose from one of the beliefs of the Church that being happy, or merry, is a very important aspect of a person's life.\n\nThe success of the Merry Young Man Band led Mr. Sekine to want to organize a concert band. After talking to Aimachi Church members about it, they donated enough money for Sekine to purchase 15 instruments. The only problem was that he didn’t have anyone who could play these concert band instruments. About the same time, he met Mr. Nagasaka who had played in the band at Meiden High School in Nagoya, and who wished to continue playing, but he didn’t have his own instrument or a group to play in. Mr. Nagasaka told Mr. Sekine that he had 14 friends who were graduates of Meiden High School that also wanted to play in a band.\n\nSo these 15 Meiden High School graduates, none of whom belonged to the Tenri religion, started coming to the Aimachi Church to play in a band conducted by Mr. Sekine. When this band performed, it would sometimes be known as the Meiden High School Alumni Band and at other times as the Aimachi Church band.\n\nAs the band progressed over the next year, most of the Meiden High School alumni continued to play and Aimachi Church members started to join. By October 1963, the band purchased its first set of uniforms for the group that included 13 Meiden alumni and six Aimachi Church members as well as baton twirlers. The Meiden alumni began giving music lessons to many of the young members of the Aimachi Church as more and more church members joined the Band. The Band was soon involved in marching in local parades in addition to the concert performances.\n\n\nGenkichi Harada, who had served as a tuba player in the famed NHK Orchestra, conducted numerous clinics around Japan about band music. Sekine attended one of these clinics and the two soon became friends. As a member of the NHK Orchestra, Mr. Harada had made several world tours and knew many prominent musicians around the world who he would often visit later on his own. Sekine accompanied Harada on one of these trips to London to visit Harry Mortimer, a famous English composer and conductor of brass bands, and Philip Jones, conductor of the internationally renowned Philip Jones Brass Ensemble. Meeting such distinguished international musicians inspired Sekine to continue to develop his skills as a teacher and conductor. Mr. Harada, who later became the Executive Director of the Japan Marching Band Baton Twirling Association, also helped guide Mr. Sekine during this period.\n\nA major event that promoted the growth of band music in Japan was the World EXPO held in Osaka in 1970. One of the bands featured during that event was the Purdue University Band from Lafayette, Indiana. The performances by the Purdue Band, an in particular the Band's “Golden Girl” Selita Sue Smith, had a lasting effect on the 64 million people who attended the EXPO. Around this same time, Mr. Sekine attended a clinic in Japan held by Mr. Thomas Davis, a percussionist who was also the Director of the Marching Band at the University of Iowa from 1968 to 1972. \nSekine's first trip to the U.S. was to see a marching band contest in Enid, Oklahoma in about 1970. During this trip, he also visited the Ludwig Drum Company in Chicago. Harada encouraged Sekine to travel to the U.S. to follow Drum Corps International events, which he started to do on a regular basis.\n\n\nAn important moment in the development of the Aimachi Band came in 1970, when the Tenrikyo Young Men's Association invited the Band to perform at an event in Tokyo at the Nippon Budokan, a famous arena that was built to host the judo competition at the 1964 Summer Olympics events but has also hosted numerous other events such as indoor marching events and rock concerts, including those by groups such as the Beatles, Pearl Jam, Ozzy Osbourne, the Doobie Brothers and Journey. For this performance, the Aimachi Band designed its first field show using Japanese popular music and traditional block formations. The success of this performance led to discussions with Mr. Harada to organize, in March 1972, a marching band association for the bands in the midsection of the country, which was part of the All Japan Marching Band Association (in 1979, the name was changed to the All Japan Marching Band and Baton Twirling Association). For the next few years, the Aimachi Band would perform in Nagoya at events hosted by this Association in a non-competitive festival format, along with other bands from the area.\n\nBefore the development of this Marching Band Association, the All Japan Band Association, which focused on concert bands, was already well established throughout the country. At that time, many of the concert bands avoided including marching activities into their programs due to a fear that it would be detrimental to the quality of the sound of their bands. Mr. Sekine introduced Mr. Harada, who was a member of the All Japan Band Association, to many of the band directors in the central part of Japan and helped to overcome these fears.\n\nMany Japanese band directors had resisted becoming involved in the marching activity due to space constraints at their schools, but larger obstacles were their lack of knowledge about it, a fear that it would be harmful to the quality of sound of their concert bands and that it was not part of the Japanese tradition up to that point. Mr. Harada was a key figure in helping to overcome these concerns, and the variety of international influences eventually led to a great deal of interest in marching bands and drum corps.\n\nIn 1973, the All Japan Marching Band and Baton Twirling Association held its first national event at the Tokyo Metropolitan Gymnasium, which had been built in 1954 for the World Wrestling Championship and was later used for gymnastic events at the 1964 Summer Olympics. The Aimachi Band appeared at this event, which at this time also used a non-competitive festival format. The Tokyo Metropolitan Gymnasium remained the site of this event until 1977, when it moved to the Nippon Budokan, where it remained for over 20 years.\n\nIn August 1974, the Band traveled to Hawaii to perform at the Tenrikyo Hawaii Convention held by the Tenrikyo Hawaii Young Men's Association. Due to the importance placed on their performance by the leaders of the Tenri Church, the Band scheduled a great deal more rehearsal time than they had for earlier events, and the playing level dramatically improved.\n\nThe divisions of the All Japan Marching Band and Baton Twirling Association included those for kindergartens, elementary schools, high schools and the open class that Aimachi participated in. The format of the event gradually evolved until the top two bands and baton corps in each division from each of three regions of the country (North, Midsection and South) met in Tokyo for an exhibition performance.\n\nA major change for the Aimachi Band occurred in 1975, when Mr. Sekine got married to Hatsume and relocated to Handa City. When he arrived there, he had to build the Tenri Church membership starting with a very small group and very limited facilities. This made it infeasible for him to continue working with the Aimachi Band, at that time still located at the Aimachi Church in Nagoya, and he stepped down as Director. Once a site had been selected for the new church buildings in Handa City, he had to help cut down the trees and clear the land to make it possible to start construction. Finally, in 1981, the new Aikiyo Church opened in its current location. The Sekine family grew with the births of four children, Kazue, Tatsuo, Yoshie, and Kiyotaka.\n\nA new director of the Aimachi Band was selected by Mr. Sekine and for the next few years the Band continued along as it had before. In 1982, Mr. Sekine returned as Director and was assisted by Mr. Narita in building the quality of the Band. Sekine then started going to the U.S. on a regular basis to see drum corps competitions and meet staff from many American bands and drum corps.\n\nThroughout the 1980s the Band remained relatively small (around 40 or 50 members). The Band continued to travel to the Final performance at the Budokan (except in 1986 when they were involved in several events at the main church in Tenri), but since it was only an exhibition performance, there was not a lot of motivation for band members to always be at rehearsal, or to push to a higher level of performance. This changed in 1990, when the Final performance became a competition. The Aimachi Band found themselves far down in the rankings, and as a result, decided to work harder to achieve the goal of winning the Final competition. Mr. Sekine became more involved in the day to day rehearsals.\n\nSekine also invited a number of Japanese clinicians to come work with the Band. One of these was Fukuda Makato, the Director of the Tenri High School Marching Band around this time. Fukuda brought the Tenri Band to perform at the 1990 Tournament of Roses Parade in Pasadena, California. At the same time as this trip to the U.S., the Band was preparing for their field show performance at the All Japan Marching Band and Baton Twirling Association Championship less than two weeks after their return to Japan (in 1990, this event changed its non-competitive format into a contest within each division). To help with their preparations, Fukuda asked an American clinician he knew, Frank Dorritie, to come work with his Band while they were in Pasadena, however, Frank was unavailable that week and he suggested that Mr. Fukuda call Gordon Henderson, Director of the Marching Band at UCLA and the Brass Arranger for the Santa Clara Vanguard Drum and Bugle Corps, since he lived close to Pasadena. Mr. Henderson spent a day with the Tenri Band to work on their “West Side Story” field show.\n\nUpon Fukuda's return to Japan, Sekine asked him about possible American arrangers and clinicians for the Aimachi Band and he suggested that he contact Mr. Henderson. For the 1991-92 season, Mr. Henderson arranged a show based on Beethoven's Ninth Symphony. Unfortunately, the Band was not able to perform at the Championship at the Budokan in Tokyo that year due to a program at the finals of the regional competition. During that performance, a member of the Band made a mistake of stepping over the boundary line that resulted in a ten-point penalty (out of 100!) and caused the Band to not qualify for the Final Competition.\n\n\nDrum Corps International Championship videos started becoming available in Japan in the late 1970s and members of the Aimachi Band loved to watch these over and over again. Around this time, a percussionist in the Aimachi Band, Uichi Kajiyama, met a member of the Velvet Knights Drum Corps percussion section who was Japanese when the Aimachi Band performed on a TV show called “Do Marching World.” Uichi began to express an interest in traveling to the U.S. to march in one of the American drum and bugle corps as a way to learn more about the marching activity.\n\nMany Aimachi Church members were not in favor of this, but Mr. Sekine wholeheartedly supported it, since he thought that it would be a great asset for the Aimachi Band to have someone with that training to help the Band once they returned. Although Uichi did not yet have the skills as a percussionist to perform with one of the top DCI corps, he did tour as a volunteer with the Cavaliers from Rosemont, Illinois for the 1992 season. Uichi had originally planned to tour with the Santa Clara Vanguard, but when Mr. Henderson was hired by the Cavaliers as the Head Brass Instructor, Mr. Fukuda recommended that Uichi go to Cavaliers instead. During this first year in Rosemont, Uichi met several other Cavalier staff and marching members who would later become members of Aimachi's staff, including Mitch Rogers, Jim Campbell, Michael Gaines, Michael Tarr, and Rosie Miller Queen. After his volunteer chores each day, Uichi would practice diligently and observe rehearsals and performance. Uichi marched as a member of the Cavaliers percussion section in 1993 through 1996. During this time, he was enrolled in Concordia College in Chicago studying English.\n\nOver the next several years, more Aimachi Band members, including two of his children, Kazue and Kiyotaka, traveled to the U.S. to join various drum corps including the Cadets, Blue Devils, Carolina Crown, Santa Clara Vanguard, Troopers, Blue Stars, Phantom Regiment and several more to the Cavaliers. Most of these people returned to the Band and have served as instructors or in leadership positions in the Band such as section leader.\n\nIn 1992, after meeting Henderson during DCI Finals Week in Madison, Wisconsin, Sekine asked him to arrange a piece of music from the Tenri religion called “The Truth of the Creation.” Mr. Henderson casually mentioned to Uichi that he would like to come to Japan someday to work with the Aimachi Band. Sekine immediately responded with an invitation to come visit in January 1993, as the Band prepared for the Final Competition. The Band finished third at the Budokan competition that year, behind the Yokohama Renaissance Vanguard and the Yokohama Inspires, but Henderson was able to give Sekine many ideas about how to improve the Band's performance, including instruments to purchase, designers and instructors to bring in and how to address problems with their practice facilities.\n\nIn November 1993, Henderson returned to work with the Band along with the Band's new drill designer, Mitch Rogers, and percussion arranger, James Campbell. During this visit, Mr. Sekine asked the three Americans to come up with a hip, cool English nickname for him (Fukuda Makato was known to everyone as “Mac” and Sekine wanted a similar moniker). After thinking about it for several days, the three came up with “Coz” which was drawn from the third syllable of his given name Kiyokazu.\n\nThrough Sekine and Uichi's connections with the Cavaliers, Michael Gaines was hired to come to Japan to work with the Color Guard for the Aimachi Band and also to prepare the Color Guard for their first performance at the Winter Guard International Championships in Dayton, Ohio in 1996. Since then, the Color Guard has returned to perform at WGI in 1999, 2002, 2004 (in San Diego), 2007 and 2009. The Color Guard finished 3rd at the last two of the trips, but their performance at the 2004 WGI Championship may have made the most lasting impression, due to World Champion Twirler Seishi Inagaki's stunning featured performance with the group. Michael also brought in other clinicians to work with the group, such as Rosie Miller Queen and Jim Moore.\n\n\nDuring the Band's early years, the primary rehearsal site for the Band was the basement of the Aimachi Church in Nagoya. As the Band began to be more involved in “field” shows, it would practice in parks at night in downtown Nagoya. Once they started to become more serious about the competition in the early 1990s, they began practicing in gymnasiums all around Nagoya. During the week, these rehearsal would usually start about 6pm, but due to most members’ school and work schedule, the full band rehearsal usually wouldn’t really get going until about 8pm. Most of the facilities would close at 9pm, meaning that at 8:45pm, there would be a mad scramble to move all of the instruments and equipment out of the gymnasium and back on the Band's truck. This would be repeated night after night!\n\nWhen the Band would travel to Tokyo for the Final Competition, they would practice outside, sometimes in wet, muddy (and cold) flood control areas. After it became apparent that these situations did not promote the best possible performance, they started to find gymnasiums in Tokyo on the day of the Final Competition starting in 1994.\n\nOn weekends, especially on Sundays, a place was usually found that would allow for longer rehearsals, sometimes outside. In 1995, Mr. Sekine broke ground on a new gymnasium to be built on the grounds of the Aikiyo Church in Handa. This required moving the “Dome House” (a guest house used by visiting church officials, instructors and some band members) off its foundation and over about 50 feet.\n\nThe new gym has two levels. On the first floor these is a large office, rehearsal rooms for each brass section, a large rehearsal room for the full brass section, a large battery percussion rehearsal room, and storage rooms. The soundproofing of these rooms is so effective that even with the battery and full brass rooms adjacent to each other, the sound cannot be heard between the rooms.\n\nThe second floor has a 40-meter square gym floor for band, percussion, color guard and twirler rehearsals. This mimics the size of many of the Band's performance venues that are built with a floor this size to accommodate sumo wrestling competitions. This floor also houses a small office, and a foyer that is used by the pit percussion section, along with other storage spaces. Above the gym floor is a walkway along all four sides with a small viewing area on one side, which is mainly used by instructors during rehearsals. Hanging from the ceiling is a huge banner displaying a photograph of Mr. Sekine's father, Sekine Toyomatsu. Over the years, banners and props from various shows have been hung from the ceiling and walkway. With the completion of this facility, the Band was able to rehearse more often, longer and more effectively than ever before.\n\n\nFrom 1994 to 1997, the Band performed shows based on common themes such as the music from the opera Carmen, various symphonic band works, and Russian music. The Band improved its ranking to second place during this period but was unable to put together a championship show. Starting with the 1996 show, “Winds of Spain,” the Band started to perform at a much higher level. In 1997, the Aimachi Band's score tied for first place, but the Renaissance Vanguard was again named Champion due to the All Japan tiebreaking formula.\n\nFinally, in January 1998, the Band's “Miss Saigon” show put them on top. The music was taken from the Santa Clara Vanguard's show in 1991, but the outstanding feature of the show was a nearly full scale helicopter that was assembled by members of the Church. Since the door onto the competition field at the Budokan was very small, the helicopter had to be assembled in the back of the field during the Band's show and then hoisted on a scissor lift just as it made its appearance. A member of the Band sat inside the helicopter and operated the crank that spun the huge propeller. As the helicopter appeared at the end of the show, the crowd response was overwhelming and at the very end, the entire helicopter was spun around to create a very dramatic effect. With this victory, the Band's first at the All Japan Marching Band and Baton Twirling Association Championships, Mr. Sekine was inspired to come up with more spectacular and unusual effects to introduce in future shows.\n\nAfter coming in second in 1999, the Band looked for a theme for the next year's show that would take advantage of their strong drumline and decided that a show entitled “Africa” would do that, and it also opened up numerous opportunities for costuming and other effects. In 2001, Mr. Sekine decided to do a show entitled “Native American.” To do research for this show, Mr. Sekine traveled to Calgary, Alberta, Canada to visit with Mr. Robert Eklund, President of the World Association of Marching Show Bands, who took him to visit Indian tribes there and gather ideas for costuming, movements and props.\n\nThe Aimachi Band took first place with both of these shows that featured elaborate costuming and props, which led the All Japan Marching Band Baton Twirling Association to create rules that limited the size and nature of props that would be allowed in shows. However, these new rules did not stop the Aimachi Band and Mr. Sekine became even more creative with effects that he incorporated into the shows. The Aimachi Band became the first band in this division to be invited to perform in exhibition at the All Japan Championship the following year, 2002.\n\nThe Band put together another consecutive pair of Championships in January 2006 and 2007, with shows entitled “Gear” and “Final Tradition,” which led to the exhibition appearance at the All Japan Championships in December 2007, performing a show entitled “Holiday in New York” which displayed more comical effects than are normally found in Aimachi's shows.\n\nTwo more consecutive Championships were achieved in December 2008 and 2009 with very controversial shows. In 2008, the show was entitled “Guernica” that told the story of a love affair between a German soldier and a peasant girl during the Spanish Civil War. The 2009 show, entitled “Virus,” showed a mad scientist creating a deadly disease in his laboratory with another team of “good” scientists racing to find an antidote to prevent an epidemic! Once again, the Aimachi Band was honored to perform in exhibition at the 38th Annual All Japan Championships. Over the previous six years, the Aimachi Band had completed an amazing stretch of four Championships and two exhibition performances.\n\nFor the exhibition performance at the 38th Annual, Mr. Sekine designed a show that conveyed a strong sense of Japanese tradition, because he planned to take this show to Basel, Switzerland in July, 2011 to perform at the internationally renown Basel Tattoo along with ensembles from Switzerland, England, Scotland, Germany, Australia, Ireland, and Bahrain. The Aimachi Band performed over a dozen times during the week-long event, and took sightseeing trips to Lucerne, Interlaken, and Strasbourg. The trip to Basel was a great way to celebrate the most successful era in the Band's history.\n\nMany of the Aimachi Band members who marched with DCI corps became friends with many Americans who expressed an interest in coming to Japan to march with the Aimachi Band, and for the next several years, there was almost always a few veterans of top DCI corps marching in the Band. This practice ended after the 2008 season when the All Japan Association decided that only foreigners with visas would be allowed to perform. At the same time, several Thais came to Aimachi to march, and since they were required to obtain visa to come to Japan, they were not affected by this new rule.\n\n\nDecember 1973 (1st Annual All-Japan National Championship) – “Truth”\n\nJanuary, 1975 (2nd Annual) – “New Sound in Marching”\n\n1977 (4th Annual) – “Fight the Field”\n\n1982 (9th Annual) – “The New World”\n\n1983 (10th Annual) – “Song for Departure”\n\n1984 (11th Annual) – “New Sound 84”\n\n1985 (12th Annual) - “Ai (Love) March”\n\n1986 – did not compete due to events at Tenri for the church\n\n1987 (14th Annual) – “Memory”\n\n1988 (15th Annual) – “Space Alive”\n\n1989 (16th Annual – “Passion For Love”\n\n1990 (17th Annual) – “Aimachi 90”\n\n1991 (18th Annual) – Finals held in Nagoya due to reconstruction of the Budokan\n\n1992 (19th Annual) – “Beethoven’s Ninth Symphony”\n\n1993 (20th Annual) – “The Truth of the Creation”\n\n1994 (21st Annual) – “The Music of France”\n\n1995 (22nd Annual) – “International Symphonic Works”\n\n1996 (23rd Annual) – “Winds of Spain”\n\n1997 (24th Annual) – “Treasures of Russia”\n\n1998 (25th Annual) – “Miss Saigon\"\n\n1999 (26th Annual) – “Phantom of the Opera”\n\nJanuary 21–22, 2000 (27th Annual) – “Africa” (1st Place) Drum Major Mr. Michihusa Sato\n\n2001 (28th Annual) – “Native American” (1st Place) Drum Major Mr. Michihusa Sato\n\n2001 Sudler Shield Award presented by the John Philip Sousa Foundation\n\n2002 (29th Annual) – “Virtuoso - Dream Entertainment” (Exhibition) Drum Major Mr. Michihusa Sato\n\nJuly 27, 2002 – WAMSB World Championship for Marching Show Bands held in Chiba, Japan. First Place - Drum Major Mr. Michihusa Sato\n\n2003 (30th Annual) – “Rising Sun” (1st Place) Drum Major Mr. Michihusa Sato\n\nJanuary 18, 2004 (31st Annual) – “Millennium Celebration” (2nd Place) 5 Thais, Drum Major Mr. Michihusa Sato\n\nJanuary 16, 2005 (32nd Annual) – “Niagara Falls” (2nd Place) 3 Thais, 1 USA, Drum Major Minalai Apivat\n\nJanuary 15, 2006 (33rd Annual) – “Gear” (1st Place) – 6 USA, 5 Thais, Drum Major Minalai Apivat\n\nJanuary 14, 2007 (34th Annual) – “Final Tradition” (1st Place) – 7 Thais, 3 USA - Drum Major Minalai Apivat\n\nDecember 16, 2007 (35th Annual) – “Holiday in New York” (Exhibition) – 10 USA, 3 Thais\n\n2008 (36th Annual) – “Guernica” (1st Place)\n\n2009 (37th Annual) – “Virus” (1st Place)\n\n2010 (38th Annual) – “Ryoma” (Exhibition), Drum Major Kimio Imori\n\n2011 Basel Tattoo, Switzerland, Drum Major Kimio Imori\n\n2011 (39th Annual) – “Tsunami” (2nd Place), Drum Major Kimio Imori\n\n2012 (40th Annual) Show (1st Place), Drum Major Kimio Imori\n\n2013 (41st Annual) - \"Ninja\" Show (2nd Place), Drum Major Kimio Imori\n\n2014 (42nd Annual) - \"DNA\" Show (2nd Place), Drum Major Kimio Imori\n\n2015 (43rd Annual) - “Legend of Goeman” Show (1st Place), Drum Major Kimio Imori\n\n2016 (44th Annual) - \"Machu Picchu\" Show (2nd Place), Drum Major Kimio Imori\n\n2017 (45th Annual) - \"Magnets\"Show (2nd Place), Drum Major Kimio Imori\n\n"}
{"id": "1271408", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1271408", "title": "Alpha and Omega", "text": "Alpha and Omega\n\nAlpha (Α or α) and omega (Ω or ω) are the first and last letters of the Greek alphabet, and a title of Christ and God in the Book of Revelation. This pair of letters are used as Christian symbols, and are often combined with the Cross, Chi-rho, or other Christian symbols.\n\nThe term \"Alpha and Omega\" comes from the phrase \"I am Alpha and Omega\" (Koiné Greek: \"ἐγὼ τὸ Α καὶ τὸ Ω\"), an appellation of Jesus in the Book of Revelation (verses 1:8, 21:6, and 22:13). The first part of this phrase (\"I am the Alpha and Omega\") is first found in Chapter 1 verse 8 (\"1v8\"), and is found in every manuscript of Revelation that has 1v8. Several later manuscripts repeat \"I am the Alpha and Omega\" in 1v11 too, but do not receive support here from most of the oldest manuscripts, including the Alexandrine, Sinaitic, and Codex Ephraemi Rescriptus. It is, therefore, omitted in some modern translations. Scholar Robert Young stated, with regard to \"I am the Alpha and Omega\" in 1v11, the \"oldest [manuscripts] omit\" it.\n\nAlpha (Α) and omega (Ω) are the first and last letters, respectively, of the classical (Ionic) Greek alphabet. Thus, twice when the phrase \"I am the alpha and the omega\" appears it is further clarified with the additional phrase, \"the beginning and the end\" (Revelation 21:6, 22:13). The first and last letters of the Greek alphabet were used because the book of Revelation is in the New Testament, which was originally written in Greek.\n\nThis phrase is interpreted by many Christians to mean that Jesus has existed for all eternity or that God is eternal. Though many commentators and dictionaries ascribe the title \"the alpha and the omega\" to both God and to Christ, some secular sources argue otherwise. \"Barnes' Notes on the New Testament\" (1974) claims: \"It cannot be absolutely certain that the writer meant to refer to the Lord Jesus specifically here ... There is no real incongruity in supposing, also, that the writer here meant to refer to God as such.\" Most Christian denominations also teach that the title applies to both Jesus and his Father.\n\nThe letters Alpha and Omega in juxtaposition are often used as a Christian visual symbol (see examples). The symbols were used in early Christianity and appear in the Roman catacombs. The letters were shown hanging from the arms of the cross in Early Christian art, and some crux gemmata, jeweled crosses in precious metal, have formed letters hanging in this way, called pendilia; for example, in the , which is based upon the Asturian Victory Cross. In fact, despite always being in Greek, the letters became more common in Western than Eastern Orthodox Christian art. They are often shown to the left and right of Christ's head, sometimes within his halo, where they take the place of the Christogram used in Orthodox art.\n\nIn Rabbinic literature, the word \"emet\" (אמת meaning \"truth\"), one of the names of God in Judaism, has been interpreted as consisting of the first, middle, and final letters of the Hebrew alphabet.\n\nThe Qur'an gives \"al'Awwal\" (الأول), meaning \"The First\" and \"al'Akhir\" (الآخر), meaning \"The Last\" as two of the names of God: .\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7820125", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7820125", "title": "Asha", "text": "Asha\n\nAsha (; also arta ; Avestan:\"𐬀𐬴𐬀‎‎\" \"aṣ̌a/arta\") is a Zoroastrian concept with a complex and highly nuanced range of meaning. It is commonly summarized in accord with its contextual implications of 'truth' and 'right(eousness)', 'order' and 'right working'. For other connotations, see meaning below. It is of cardinal importance to Zoroastrian theology and doctrine. In the moral sphere, \"aša/arta\" represents what has been called \"the decisive confessional concept of Zoroastrianism\". The opposite of Avestan \"aša\" is \"𐬛𐬭𐬎𐬘‎ druj\", \"deceit, falsehood\".\n\nIts Old Persian equivalent is \"arta-\". In Middle Iranian languages the term appears as \"ard-\".\n\nThe word is also the proper name of the divinity Asha, the Amesha Spenta that is the hypostasis or \"genius\" of \"Truth\" or \"Righteousness\". In the Younger Avesta, this figure is more commonly referred to as Asha Vahishta (\"Aša Vahišta\", \"Arta Vahišta\"), \"Best Truth\". The Middle Persian descendant is \"Ashawahist\" or \"Ardwahisht\"; New Persian \"Ardibehesht\" or \"Ordibehesht\". In the Gathas, the oldest texts of Zoroastrianism and thought to have been composed by the prophet himself, it is seldom possible to distinguish between moral principle and the divinity. Later texts consistently use the 'Best' epithet when speaking of the Amesha Spenta, only once in the Gathas is 'best' an adjective of \"aša/arta\".\n\nAvestan \"\" and its Vedic equivalent \"\" both derive from Proto-Indo-Iranian \"*ṛtá-\" \"truth\", which in turn continues Proto-Indo-European \"*\" \"properly joined, right, true\", from the root \"*\".\nThe word is attested in Old Persian as \"\".\n\nIt is unclear whether the Avestan variation between \"aša\" and \"arta\" is merely orthographical. Benveniste suggested \"š\" was only a convenient way of writing \"rt\" and should not be considered phonetically relevant. According to Gray, \"š\" is a misreading, representing – not /ʃ/ - but /rr/, of uncertain phonetic value but \"probably\" representing a voiceless \"r\". Miller suggested that \"rt\" was restored when a scribe was aware of the morpheme boundary between the /r/ and /t/ (that is, whether the writer maintained the \"–ta\" suffix).\n\nAvestan \"druj\", like its Vedic Sanskrit cousin \"druh\", appears to derive from the PIE root \"*\", also continued in Persian دروغ / \"d[o]rūġ\" \"lie\", German \"Trug\" \"fraud, deception\". Old Norse \"draugr\" and Middle Irish \"airddrach\" mean \"spectre, spook\". The Sanskrit cognate \"druh\" means \"affliction, afflicting demon\".\nIn Avestan, \" druj-\" has a secondary derivation, the adjective \"drəguuaṇt-\" (Later Avestan \" druuaṇt-\"), \"partisan of deception, deceiver\" for which the superlative \"draojišta-\" and perhaps the comparative \"draoj(ii)ah-\" are attested (Kellens, 2010, pp. 69 ff.).\n\n\"Aša\" \"cannot be precisely rendered by some single word in another tongue\" but may be summarized as follows:\n\nIt is, first of all, 'true statement'. This 'true statement', because it is true, corresponds to an objective, material reality that embraces all of existence. Recognized in it is a great cosmic principle since all things happen according to it. \n\"This cosmic [...] force is imbued also with morality, as verbal Truth, 'la parole conforme', and Righteousness, action conforming with the moral order.\"\n\nThe correspondence between 'truth', reality and an all-encompassing cosmic principle is not far removed from Heraclitus' conception of Logos.\n\nBoth Avestan \"aša/arta\" and Vedic \"ŗtá-\" are commonly translated as \"truth\" as this best reflects both the original meaning of the term as well as the opposition to their respective antonyms. The opposite of Avestan \"aša/arta\" is \"druj-\", \"lie.\" Similarly, the opposites of Vedic ' are ' and \"druh\", likewise \"lie\".\n\nThat \"truth\" is also what was commonly understood by the term as attested in Greek myth of: \"Isis and Osiris\" 47, Plutarch calls the divinity Αλήθεια \"Aletheia\", \"Truth.\"\n\nThe adjective corresponding to the noun \"aša/arta\", \"truth\", is Avestan \"haithya-\" (\"haiθiia-\"), \"true\", the opposite of which is also \"druj-\". Avestan \"haithya-\" derives from Indo-Iranian \"*sātya\" that in turn derives from Indo-European \"*sat-\" \"being, existing\". The Sanskrit cognate \"sátya-\" means \"true\" in the sense of \"really existing.\" This meaning is also preserved in Avestan, for instance in the expression \"haiθīm var\"ə\"z\", \"to make true\" as in \"to bring to realization.\"\n\nAnother meaning of \"reality\" may be inferred from the component parts of the \"aša/arta\": from (root) \"ŗ\" with a substantivizing \"-ta\" suffix. The root \"ŗ\" corresponds to Old Avestan \"ar\"ə\"ta-\" and Younger Avestan ə\"r\"ə\"ta-\" \"established\", hence \"aša/arta\" \"that which is established.\"\n\nThe synonymy of \"aša\" and \"existence\" overlaps with the stock identification of Ahura Mazda as the creator (of existence itself). Truth is existence (creation) inasmuch as falsehood is non-existence (uncreated, anti-created). Also, because \"aša\" is everything that \"druj-\" is not (or vice versa), since \"aša\" is, \"druj-\" is not. Details are have Angra Mainyu.\n\nThis notion is already expressed in the Avesta itself, such as in the first \"Yasht\", dedicated to Ahura Mazda, in which the \"fifth name is the whole good existence of Mazda, the seed of Asha\" ( \"Yasht\" 1.7). Similarly, in the mythology of \"Gandar\"ə\"βa\", the 'yellow-heeled' dragon of the \"druj-\" that emerges from the deep to destroy the \"living world (creation) of Aša\" (\"Yasht\" 19.41)\n\nIn the ethical goals of Zoroastrianism (\"good thoughts, good words, good deeds\"), Vohu Manah is active in good thoughts, Sraosha in good words and Aša in good deeds. (\"Denkard\" 3.13-14). Aša is thus \"represented as active and effective.\"\n\nSubject to context, \"aša/arta-\" is also frequently translated as \"right working\" or \"[that which is] right\". The word then (\"cf.\" Bartholomae's and Geldner's translations as German language \"Recht\") has the same range of meaning of \"right\" as in the English language: truth, righteousness, rightfulness, lawfullness, conformity, accord, order (cosmic order, social order, moral order). \n\nThese various meanings of \"right\" are frequently combined, such as \"the inexorable law of righteousness,\" or as \"the eternal fitness of things that are in accord with the divine order.\"\n\nAs (the hypostasis of) regularity and \"right working\", \"aša/arta-\" is present when Ahura Mazda fixed the course of the sun, the moon and the stars (\"Yasna\" 44.3), and it is through \"aša\" that plants grow (\"Yasna\" 48.6).\n\n\"Right working\" also overlaps with both Indo-European \"*ár-\" \"to (properly) join together\" and with the notion of existence and realization (to make real). The word for \"established\", \"ar\"ə\"ta-\", also means \"proper\". The antonymic \"anar\"ə\"ta-\" (or \"anar\"ə\"θa-\") means \"improper\" In Zoroastrian tradition, prayers must be enunciated with care for them to be effective. The Indo-Iranian formula \"*sātyas mantras\" (\"Yasna\" 31.6: \"haiθīm mathrem\") \"does not simply mean 'true Word' but formulated thought which is in conformity with the reality' or 'poetic (religious) formula with inherent fulfillment (realization)'\".\n\nIt perhaps has also suggestions of harmoniousness or cooperativeness\n\nThe kinship between Old Iranian \"aša-/arta-\" and Vedic \"ŗtá-\" is evident in numerous formulaic phrases and expressions that appear in both the Avesta and in the RigVeda. For instance, the \"*ŗtásya path-\", \"path of truth\", is attested multiple times in both sources: Y 51.13, 72.11; RV 3.12.7, 7.66.3. Similarly \"source of truth,\" Avestan \"aša khá\" and Vedic \"\" (Y 10.4; RV 2.28.5)\n\nThe adjective corresponding to Avestan \"aša/arta-\" is \"haiθiia-\" \"true\". Similarly, the adjective corresponding to Vedic \"ŗtá-\" \"truth\" is \"sátya-\" \"true\". The opposite of both \"aša/arta-\" and \"haithya-\" is \"druj-\" \"lie\" or \"false\". In contrast, in the Vedas the opposite of both \"ŗtá-\" and \"sátya-\" is \"druj-\" and \"ánŗta-\", also \"lie\" or \"false\".\n\nHowever, while the Indo-Iranian concept of truth is attested throughout Zoroastrian tradition, \"ŗtá-\" disappears in post-Vedic literature and is not preserved in post-Vedic texts. On the other hand, \"sátya-\" and \"ánrta-\" both survive in classical Sanskrit.\n\nThe main theme of the Rig Veda, \"the truth and the gods\", is not evident in the Gathas. Thematic parallels between \"aša/arta\" and \"ŗtá-\", however, exist such aa in \"Yasht\" 10, the Avestan hymn to Mithra. There, Mithra, who is the hypostasis and the preserver of covenant, is the protector of \"aša/arta\". RigVedic Mitra is likewise preserver of \"ŗtá-\".\n\nAsha Vahishta is closely associated with fire. Fire is \"grandly conceived as a force informing all the \"other\" Amesha Spentas, giving them warmth and the spark of life.\"\nIn \"Yasht\" 17.20, Angra Mainyu clamours that Zoroaster burns him with Asha Vahishta. In \"Vendidad\" 4.54-55, speaking against the truth and violating the sanctity of promise is detected by the consumption of \"water, blazing, of golden color, having the power to detect guilt.\"\n\nThis analogy of truth that burns and detecting truth through fire is already attested in the very earliest texts, that is, in the Gathas and in the \"Yasna Haptanghaiti\". In \"Yasna\" 43-44, Ahura Mazda dispenses justice through radiance of His fire and the strength of aša. Fire \"detects\" sinners \"by hand-grasping\" (\"Yasna\" 34.4). An individual who has passed the fiery test (\"garmo-varah\", ordeal by heat), has attained physical and spiritual strength, wisdom, truth and love with serenity (\"Yasna\" 30.7). Altogether, \"there are said to have been some 30 kinds of fiery tests in all.\" According to the post-Sassanid \"Dadestan i denig\" (I.31.10), at the final judgement a river of molten metal will cover the earth. The righteous, as they wade through this river, will perceive the molten metal as a bath of warm milk. The wicked will be scorched. For details on aša's role in personal and final judgement, see \"aša\" in eschatology, below.\n\nFire is moreover the \"auxiliary of the truth,\" \"and not only, as in the ordeal, of justice and of truth at the same time.\" In \"Yasna\" 31.19, \"the man who thinks of \"aša\", [...] who uses his tongue in order to speak correctly, [does so] with the aid of brilliant fire\". In \"Yasna\" 34-44 devotees \"ardently desire [Mazda's] mighty fire, through aša.\" In \"Yasna\" 43-44, Ahura Mazda \"shall come to [Zoroaster] through the splendour of [Mazda's] fire, possessing the strength of (through) aša and good mind (=Vohu Manah).\" That fire \"possesses strength through \"aša\"\" is repeated again in \"Yasna\" 43.4. In \"Yasna\" 43.9, Zoroaster, wishing to serve fire, gives his attention to \"aša\". In \"Yasna\" 37.1, in a list of what are otherwise all physical creations, \"aša\" takes the place of fire.\n\nAsha Vahishta's association with \"atar\" is carried forward in the post-Gathic texts, and they are often mentioned together. In Zoroastrian cosmogony, each of the Amesha Spentas represents one aspect of creation and one of seven primordial elements that in Zoroastrian tradition are the basis of that creation. In this matrix, \"aša/arta\" is the origin of fire, Avestan \"atar\", which permeates through all Creation. The correspondence then is that \"aša/arta\" \"penetrates all ethical life, as fire penetrates all physical being.\" \n\nIn the liturgy Asha Vahishta is frequently invoked together with fire. (\"Yasna\" l.4, 2.4, 3.6, 4.9, 6.3, 7.6, 17.3, 22.6, 59.3, 62.3 etc.). In one passage, fire is a protector of \"aša\": \"when the Evil Spirit assailed the creation of Good Truth, Good Thought and Fire intervened\" (\"Yasht\" 13.77)\n\nIn later Zoroastrian tradition, Asha Vahishta is still at times identified with the fire of the household hearth.\n\nIn addition to the role of fire as the agent of Truth, fire, among its various other manifestations, is also \"the fire of judicial ordeal, prototype of the fiery torrent of judgement day, when all will receive their just deserts 'by fire and by Aša' (\"Y\" 31.3).\"\n\nIn the Avesta, the \"radiant quarters\" of \"aša\" is \"the best existence\", i.e. Paradise (cf. \"Vendidad\" 19.36), entry to which is restricted to those who are recognized as \"possessing truth\" (\"ašavan\"). The key to this doctrine is \"Yasna\" 16.7: \"We worship the radiant quarters of \"Aša\" in which dwell the souls of the dead, the Fravašis of the \"ašavan\"s; the best existence (=Paradise) of the \"ašavan\"s we worship, (which is) light and according all comforts.\"\n\n'Aša' derives from the same Proto-Indo-European root as 'Airyaman', the divinity of healing who is closely associated with Asha Vahishta. At the last judgement, the common noun \"airyaman\" is an epithet of the \"saoshyans\", the saviours that bring about the final renovation of the world. The standing epithet of these saviour figures is <nowiki>'</nowiki>\"astvat\"ә\"r\"ә\"ta\"<nowiki>'</nowiki>, which likewise has \"arta\" as an element of the name. These saviours are those who follow Ahura Mazda's teaching \"with acts inspired by aša\" (\"Yasna\" 48.12). Both Airyaman and Asha Vahishta (as also Atar) are closely associated with Sraosha \"[Voice of] Conscience\" and guardian of the Chinvat bridge across which souls must pass.\n\nAccording to a lost Avestan passage that is only preserved in a later (9th century) Pahlavi text, towards the end of time and the final renovation, Aša and Airyaman will together come upon the earth to do battle with the Az, the demon of greed (\"Zatspram\" 34.38-39).\n\nThe third \"Yasht\", which is nominally addressed to Asha Vahishta, is in fact mostly devoted to the praise of the \"airyaman ishya\" (\"airy\"ә\"mā īšyo\", \"Longed-for \"airyaman\"\"), the fourth of the four great Gathic prayers. In present-day Zoroastrianism it is considered to invoke Airyaman just as the \"Ashem Vohu\", is the second of the four great Gathic prayers, is dedicated to Aša. All four prayers (the first is the Ahuna Vairya, the third is the Yenghe Hatam) have judgement and/or salvation as a theme, and all four call on the Truth.\n\nIt is Airyaman that – together with fire – will \"melt the metal in the hills and mountains, and it will be upon the earth like a river\" (\"Bundahishn\" 34.18). In Zoroastrian tradition, metal is the domain of Xshathra [Vairya], the Amesha Spenta of \"[Desirable] Dominion\", with whom Aša is again frequently identified. Dominion is moreover \"a form of truth and results from truth.\"\n\nIn \"Denkard\" 8.37.13, Asha Vahishta actually takes over Airyaman's healer role as the healer of all spiritual ills and Airyaman then only retains the role of healer of corporeal ills. Although Airyaman has no dedication in the Siroza, the invocations to the divinities of the Zoroastrian calendar, Airyaman is twice invoked together with Aša. (\"Siroza\" 1.3 and 2.3)\n\n\"Aogemadaecha\" 41-47 prototypes death as a journey that has to be properly prepared for: As mortals acquires material goods as they go through life, so also should they furnish themselves with spiritual stores of righteousness. They will then be well provisioned when they embark on the journey from which they will not return.\n\nAša's role is not limited to judgement: In \"Bundahishn\" 26.35, Aša prevents demons from exacting too great a punishment to souls consigned to hell. Here, Aša occupies the position that other texts assign to Mithra, who is traditionally identified with fairness.\n\nFor the relationship between Aša, eschatology and Nowruz, see in the Zoroastrian calendar, below.\n\nAlthough there are numerous eschatological parallels between Aša and Aši \"recompense, reward\" (most notably their respective associations with Sraosha and Vohu Manah), and are on occasion even mentioned together (\"Yasna\" 51.10), the two are not etymologically related. The feminine abstract noun \"aši/arti\" derives from \"ar-\", \"to allot, to grant.\" Aši also has no Vedic equivalent.\n\nIn Zoroastrian cosmogony and cosmology, which—though alluded to in the Gathas—is only systematically described in Zoroastrian tradition (e.g. \"Bundahishn\" 3.12), \"aša\" is the second (cf. \"Yasna\" 47.1) of the six primeval creations realized (\"created by His thought\") by Ahura Mazda. It is through these six, the Amesha Spentas that all subsequent creation was accomplished.\n\nIn addition to Asha Vahishta's role as an Amesha Spenta and hence one of the primordial creations through which all other creation was realized, Truth is one of the \"organs, aspects or emanations\" of Ahura Mazda through which the Creator acts and is immanent in the world.\n\nAlthough Vohu Manah regularly stands first in the list of the Amesha Spenta (and of Ahura Mazda's creations), in the Gathas Asha Vahishta is the most evident of the six, and also the most commonly associated with Wisdom (Mazda). In the 238 verses of these hymns, Aša appears 157 times. Of the other concepts, only \"Vohu Manah\" \"Good Purpose\" appears nearly as often (136 occurrences). In comparison, the remaining four of the great sextet appear only 121 times altogether.\n\nAlthough a formal hierarchy is not evident in the Gathas, the group of six \"divides naturally into three dyads.\" In this arrangement, Aša is paired with Vohu Manah. This reflects the frequency in which the two appear (together) in the Gathas and is in turn reflected in Zoroastrian tradition. In \"Bundahishn\" 26.8, Vohu Manah stands at the left hand of God, while Aša stands at the right.\n\nYasht 1, the hymn dedicated to Ahura Mazda, provides a list of 74 \"names\" by which the Creator is invoked. In the numbered list of \"Yasht\" 1.7, 'Asha Vahishta' \"Best Truth\" is the fourth name. A later verse, \"Yasht\" 1.12, includes 'Ašavan' \"Possessing Truth\" and 'Ašavastəma' \"Most Righteous\". In \"Yasna\" 40.3, Ahura Mazda is \"ašaŋāč\" \"having \"aša\" following\".\n\nOne of Haoma's stock epithets is \"ašavazah-\" \"furthering \"aša\"\" (\"Yasht\" 20.3; \"Yasna\" 8.9, 10.1.14, 11.10 et al.). Atar \"possesses strength through \"aša\"\" (\"aša-ahojah\", Yasna 43.4).\n\nIn the Zoroastrian calendar, the third day of the month and the second month of the year are dedicated to and named after \"aša\" and Asha Vahishta (calledارديبهشت \"Ordibehesht\" in Modern Persian both in Iranian Calendar and Yazdgerdi calendar).\n\nA special service to \"aša\" and Aša, known as the '\"Jashan\" of Ardavisht', is held on the day on which month-name and day-name dedications intersect. In the \"Fasli\" and \"Bastani\" variants of the Zoroastrian calendar, this falls on April 22.\n\nRapithwin, one of the five \"gah\"s (watches) of the day, under the protection of Aša. (\"Bundahishn\" 3.22) This implies that all prayers recited between noon and three invoke Aša. Noon is considered to be the \"perfect\" time, at which instant the world was created and at which instant time will stop on the day of the final renovation of the world.\n\nIn the winter months, the \"daev\"ic time of year, Rapithwin is known as the \"Second Havan\" (the first Havan being from dawn to noon), and with the first day of spring, March 21, Rapithwin symbolically returns. This day, March 21, is Nowruz.\n\nNowruz, the holiest of all Zoroastrian festivals is dedicated to Aša. It follows immediately after Pateti, the day of introspection and the Zoroastrian equivalent of All-Souls Day. Nowruz, Zoroastrianism's New Year's Day, is celebrated on the first day of spring, traditionally understood to be the day of rebirth, and literally translated means \"New Day\". The first month of the year of the Zoroastrian calendar is Farvadin, which is dedicated to and named after the Fravašis, the guardian spirits of the dead.\n\n\"The underlying idea of the dedication\" of the second month of the year to Asha Vahishta \"may be revivification of the earth after the death of winter.\"\n\nOn Kushan coins, Asha Vahishta \"appears as Ašaeixšo, with a diadem and nimbus, like Mithra in the same series.\"\n\n\"\"Arta-\" (Mid. Iranian \"ard-\"), representing either the Av. divinity Aša or the principle \"aša\", occurs frequently as an element in Iranian personal names.\"\n\nHellenized/Latinized names include:\n\nOther names include:\n\nMiddle Iranian \"ard-\" is also suggested to be the root of names of the current day Iranian cities of Ardabil, Ardekan, Ardehal and Ardestan.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11892694", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11892694", "title": "Canonarch", "text": "Canonarch\n\nA canonarch is a lead cantor, or reader, in Eastern Christian churches of the Byzantine tradition. The canonarch ensures that other readers chant from the correct texts and use the proper tones. The canonarch preserves the canonical order in the liturgical services through proper use of the Typicon. \n\nThe canonarch also reads the verses of the prokeimenon and related texts. In some churches many of the duties of the canonarch are assumed by deacon, such as chanting the verses of \"Theos Kyrios\". \n\n"}
{"id": "51132349", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51132349", "title": "Chinese gods and immortals", "text": "Chinese gods and immortals\n\nChinese traditional religion is polytheistic; many deities are worshipped in a pantheistic view where divinity is inherent in the world. The gods are energies or principles revealing, imitating and propagating the way of Heaven (\"Tian\" 天), which is the supreme godhead manifesting in the northern culmen of the starry vault of the skies and its order. Many gods are ancestors or men who became deities for their heavenly achievements; most gods are also identified with stars and constellations. Ancestors are regarded as the equivalent of Heaven within human society, and therefore as the means connecting back to Heaven, which is the \"utmost ancestral father\" (曾祖父 \"zēngzǔfù\").\n\nGods are innumerable, as every phenomenon has or is one or more gods, and they are organised in a complex celestial hierarchy. Besides the traditional worship of these entities, Confucianism, Taoism and formal thinkers in general give theological interpretations affirming a monistic essence of divinity. \"Polytheism\" and \"monotheism\" are categories derived from Western religion and do not fit Chinese religion, which has never conceived the two things as opposites. Since all gods are considered manifestations of 氣 \"qì\", the \"power\" or \"pneuma\" of Heaven, some scholars have employed the term \"polypneumatism\" or \"(poly)pneumatolatry\", first coined by Walter Medhurst (1796–1857), to describe the practice of Chinese polytheism. In the theology of the classic texts and Confucianism, \"Heaven is the lord of the hundreds of deities\". Modern Confucian theology compares them to intelligences, substantial forms or entelechies (inner purposes) as explained by Leibniz, generating all types of beings, so that \"even mountains and rivers are worshipped as something capable of enjoying sacrificial offerings\".\n\nThe deification of historical persons and ancestors is not traditionally the duty of Confucians or Taoists, but depends on the choices of common people; persons are deified when they have made extraordinary deeds and have left an efficacious legacy. Yet, Confucians and Taoists traditionally may demand that state honour be granted to a particular deity. Each deity has a cult centre and ancestral temple where he or she, or the parents, lived their mortal life. There are frequently disputes over which is the original place and source temple of the cult of a deity.\n\nIn Chinese language there is a terminological distinction between 神 \"shén\", 帝 \"dì\" and 仙 \"xiān\". Although the usage of the former two is sometimes blurred, it corresponds to the distinction in Western cultures between \"god\" and \"deity\", Latin \"genius\" (meaning a generative principle, \"spirit\") and \"deus\" or \"divus\"; \"dì\", sometimes translated as \"thearch\", implies a manifested or incarnate \"godly\" power. It is etymologically and figuratively analogous to the concept of \"di\" as the base of a fruit, which falls and produces other fruits. This analogy is attested in the \"Shuowen Jiezi\" explaining \"deity\" as \"what faces the base of a melon fruit\". The latter term 仙 \"xiān\" unambiguously means a man who has reached immortality, similarly to the Western idea of \"hero\".\n\nChinese traditional theology, which comes in different interpretations according to the classic texts, and specifically Confucian, Taoist and other philosophical formulations, is fundamentally monistic, that is to say it sees the world and the gods who produce it as an organic whole, or cosmos. The universal principle that gives origin to the world is conceived as transcendent and immanent to creation, at the same time. The Chinese idea of the universal God is expressed in different ways; there are many names of God from the different sources of Chinese tradition.\n\nThe radical Chinese terms for the universal God are \"Tiān\" 天 and \"Shàngdì\" 上帝 (the \"Highest Deity\") or simply \"Dì\" 帝 (\"Deity\"). There is also the concept of \"Tàidì\" 太帝 (the \"Great Deity\"). \"Dì\" is a title expressing dominance over the all-under-Heaven, that is all things generated by Heaven and ordered by its cycles and by the stars. \"Tiān\" is usually translated as \"Heaven\", but by graphical etymology it means \"Great One\" and a number of scholars relate it to the same \"Dì\" through phonetic etymology and trace their common root, through their archaic forms respectively \"*Teeŋ\" and \"*Tees\", to the symbols of the squared north celestial pole godhead (\"Dīng\" 口). These names are combined in different ways in Chinese theological literature, often interchanged in the same paragraph if not in the same sentence.\n\n\"Tian\" is known by many names. Besides \"Shangdi\" and \"Taidi\", other names include \"Yudi\" (\"Jade Deity\"), and \"Taiyi\" (\"Great Oneness\") who, in mythical imagery, holds the ladle of the Big Dipper (Great Chariot) providing the movement of life to the world. As the hub of the skies, the north celestial pole constellations are known, among various names, as \"Tiānmén\" 天門 (\"Gate of Heaven\") and \"Tiānshū\" 天樞 (\"Pivot of Heaven\").\n\nOther names of the God of Heaven are attested in the vast Chinese religio-philosophical literary tradition:\n\n\"Tian\" is both transcendent and immanent, manifesting in the three forms of dominance, destiny and nature of things. In the \"Wujing yiyi\" (五經異義, \"Different Meanings in the Five Classics\"), Xu Shen explains that the designation of Heaven is quintuple:\n\nAll these designations reflect a hierarchical, multiperspective experience of divinity.\n\nMany classical books have lists and hierarchies of gods and immortals, among which the \"Completed Record of Deities and Immortals\" (神仙通鑑, \"Shénxiān Tōngjiàn\") of the Ming dynasty, and the \"Biographies of the Deities and Immortals\" or \"Shenxian Zhuan\" by Ge Hong (284-343). There's also the older \"Collected Biographies of the Immortals\" or \"Liexian Zhuan\". Couplets or polarities, such as Fuxi and Nuwa, Xiwangmu and Dongwanggong, and the highest couple of Heaven and Earth, all embody yin and yang and are at once the originators and maintainers of the ordering process of space and time.\n\n\n\nIn mythology, Huangdi and Yandi fought a battle against each other; and Huang finally defeated Yan with the help of the Dragon (the controller of water, who is Huangdi himself). This myth symbolises the equipoise of yin and yang, here the fire of knowledge (reason and craft) and earthly stability. \"Yan\" 炎 is flame, scorching fire, or an excess of it (it is important to note that graphically it is a double 火 \"huo\", \"fire\"). As an excess of fire brings destruction to the earth, it has to be controlled by a ruling principle. Nothing is good in itself, without limits; good outcomes depend on the proportion in the composition of things and their interactions, never on extremes in absolute terms. Huangdi and Yandi are complementary opposites, necessary for the existence of one another, and they are powers that exist together within the human being.\n\n\n\n\nThe worship of mother goddesses for the cultivation of offspring is present all over China, but predominantly in northern provinces. There are nine main goddesses, and all of them tend to be considered as manifestations or attendant forces of a singular goddess identified variously as the Lady of the Blue Dawn (\"Bìxiá Yuánjūn\" 碧霞元君, also known as the \"Tiānxiān Niángniáng\" 天仙娘娘, \"Heavenly Immortal Lady\", or \"Tàishān Niángniáng\" 泰山娘娘, \"Lady of Mount Tai\", or also \"Jiǔtiān Shèngmǔ\" 九天聖母, \"Holy Mother of the Nine Skies\") or Houtu, the goddess of the earth. Bixia herself is identified by Taoists as the more ancient goddess Xiwangmu, The general Chinese term for \"goddess\" is 女神 \"nǚshén\", and goddesses may receive many qualifying titles including \"mǔ\" (母 \"mother\"), \"lǎomǔ\" (老母 \"old mother\"), \"shèngmǔ\" (聖母 \"holy mother\"), \"niángniáng\" (娘娘 \"lady\"), \"nǎinai\" (奶奶 \"granny\").\n\nThe additional eight main goddesses of fertility, reproduction and growth are:\n\nAltars of goddess worship are usually arranged with Bixia at the center and two goddesses at her sides, most frequently the Lady of Eyesight and the Lady of Offspring. A different figure but with the same astral connections as Bixia is the Goddess of the Seven Stars (七星娘娘 \"Qīxīng Niángniáng\"). There is also the cluster of the Holy Mothers of the Three Skies (三霄聖母 \"Sānxiāo Shèngmǔ\"; or 三霄娘娘 \"Sānxiāo Niángniáng\", \"Ladies of the Three Stars\"), composed of \"Yunxiao Guniang\", \"Qiongxiao Guniang\" and \"Bixiao Guniang\". The cult of Chenjinggu present in southeast China is identified by some scholars as an emanation of the northern cult of Bixia.\n\nOther goddesses worshipped in China include \"Cánmǔ\" (蠶母 Silkworm Mother) or \"Cángū\" (蠶姑 Silkworm Maiden), identified with \"Léizǔ\" (嫘祖, the wife of the Yellow Emperor), \"Mágū\" (麻姑 \"Hemp Maiden\"), \"Sǎoqīng Niángniáng\" (掃清娘娘 Goddess who Sweeps Clean), \"Sānzhōu Niángniáng\" (三洲娘娘 Goddess of the Three Isles), and Wusheng Laomu. Mother goddess is central in the theology of many folk religious sects.\n\nNortheast China has clusters of deities which are peculiar to the area, deriving from the Manchu and broader Tungusic substratum of the local population. Animal deities related to shamanic practices are characteristic of the area and reflect wider Chinese cosmology. Besides the aforementioned Fox Gods (狐仙 \"Húxiān\"), they include:\n\nGods who have been adopted into Chinese religion but who have their origins in the Indian subcontinent or Hinduism:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47231833", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47231833", "title": "Dharashiv Caves", "text": "Dharashiv Caves\n\nDharashiv caves are the nexus of 7 caves located 8 km away from Osmanabad city in Balaghat mountains in Maharashtra state of India. The caves were taken note by Archaeological Department of India and mentioned in the book \"Archaeological survey of India\" by James Burges. Dharashiv Caves have been declared as Protected area by Government of Maharashtra.\n\nDharashiv caves are believed to be built around 5th-7th century. First cave has been discovered in 10th century during the age of Rashtrakutas, while there have been debates over caves whether they are Buddhist or Jain creations. It is believed that these caves were originally Buddhist, but were later converted into monuments of the Jain religion.\n\nThere are 7 caves, 1st cave is harnessed by 20 pillars of scaffolding. Cave No. 2 is among major caves and modeled on the plan of the Vakataka caves at Ajantha. It has a central hall measuring 80 feet by 80 feet, with 14 cells for the residence of the Bhiksus and garbhagraha with a statue of the Gautam Buddha in Padmasana. 3rd cave resembles with 1st, while later caves are Jain caves.\n\nDharashiv caves are claimed by both Buddhist and Jain traditions. However research done by James Burges on 1200 caves in Maharashtra state showed that Dharashiv caves were originally a Buddhists caves in 5th century AD, while in 12th century some caves were converted to Jain caves.\n\n"}
{"id": "22760821", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22760821", "title": "Dialogue between the Holy See and the Society of Saint Pius X", "text": "Dialogue between the Holy See and the Society of Saint Pius X\n\nFor a number of years after the 1988 consecrations, there was little if any dialogue between the Society of St. Pius X and the Holy See. This state of affairs ended when the Society led a large pilgrimage to Rome for the Jubilee in the year 2000.\n\nA sympathetic Cardinal Darío Castrillón Hoyos, President of the Pontifical Commission Ecclesia Dei, approached the SSPX bishops during the pilgrimage and, according to Bishop Fellay, told them that the Pope was prepared to grant them either a personal prelature (a new juridical structure introduced by Vatican II; presently Opus Dei is the only personal prelature) or an apostolic administration (the status given to the traditionalist priests of Campos, Brazil). The SSPX leadership responded with distrust, saying that Castrillón was vague on how the new structure would be implemented and sustained, and criticising the Holy See's allegedly heavy-handed treatment of the Priestly Fraternity of St. Peter. They requested two preliminary \"signs\" before continuing negotiations: that the Holy See grant permission for all priests to celebrate the Tridentine Mass; and that its statement that the 1988 consecrations had resulted in excommunication for the clerics involved be declared void.\n\nCardinal Castrillón refused to grant interviews on the subject, in order \"to maintain the privacy of the details of our dialogue\", though this silence was broken when his letter of 5 April 2002 to Bishop Bernard Fellay was later published. This contained the text of a protocol summarizing the meeting between the two men held on 29 December 2000. This envisaged a reconciliation on the basis of the Lefebvre-Ratzinger protocol of 5 May 1988; the 1988 excommunications would be lifted rather than declared null. From 2003 onwards, the annual reports of the Ecclesia Dei Commission began to report on dialogue between the Vatican authorities and the SSPX, beginning with \"some high-level meetings and... an exchange of correspondence\" in 2003, continuing with \"dialogue at various levels... [and] meetings, some at a high level\" in 2004, and leading to \"somewhat improved\" dialogue with \"more concrete proposals\" in 2005.\n\nThe year 2005 was of great significance because it saw the accession to the papacy of Pope Benedict XVI, who had participated in the 1988 negotiations and who was seen as being sympathetic to the use of the Tridentine liturgy. In August 2005, Benedict met with Bishop Fellay for 35 minutes, at the latter's request. There was no breakthrough, but statements from both sides spoke of the atmosphere as positive. It was reported that the SSPX question was among the topics for discussion at meetings of the Pope with cardinals and Curia officials in early 2006.\n\nIn July 2007, the Pope issued \"Summorum Pontificum\", which liberalised the restrictions on the celebration of the Tridentine Mass. In an accompanying letter, he wrote that he wished to see \"an interior reconciliation in the heart of the Church\" and \"to make every effort to enable for all those who truly desire unity to remain in that unity or to attain it anew\" - presumably a reference to the SSPX and other traditionalists in dispute with Rome. Bishop Fellay, while welcoming the Pope's decision, referred to \"the difficulties that still remain\", and stated that the SSPX wished that the new \"favourable climate\" would \"make it possible - after the decree of excommunication which still affects its bishops has been withdrawn – to consider more serenely the disputed doctrinal issues.\"\n\nThe 2007 Ecclesia Dei report states that \"the Pontifical Commission has taken advice from many experts to continue studying concrete juridical ways for the Lefebvrians' reconciliation. The projects drafted to this end have been submitted to the Supreme Authority\".\n\nIn April 2008, Bishop Fellay issued \"Letter to Friends and Benefactors No. 72\", informing the SSPX faithful that, in spite of both \"Summorum Pontificum\" and the recent Vatican documents on the true meaning of \"Lumen gentium\" and evangelisation, the Society still could not sign an agreement with the Holy See, which was not going to deal with doctrinal errors. Two months later, after a meeting held in Rome between the two, Cardinal Castrillòn Hoyos indicated five conditions that SSPX must comply with as a preparatory step for achieving full communion. The Cardinal did not ask in an explicit way for acceptance of the Second Vatican Council as a true Ecumenical Council or of the validity of the Mass of Paul VI, matters on which the Secretariat of State later made clear agreement is required for unity of doctrine. On several occasions, but especially in the homily Fellay preached at Lourdes for the SSPX Pilgrimage, on 26 October 2008, he replied that the Vatican requests were ambiguous. He also launched a new Rosary Crusade for 1 November to Christmas 2008. The first such Crusade was undertaken to ask for liberalization of Tridentine Mass. The second was to pray that the 1988 excommunications be declared void. Fellay later reported on DICI.org that one million seven hundred thousand rosaries were prayed in this Crusade.\n\nBy a decree of 21 January 2009 (Protocol Number 126/2009), which was issued in response to a renewed request dated 15 December 2008 that Bishop Fellay made on behalf of all four bishops whom Lefebvre had consecrated on 30 June 1988, the Prefect of the Congregation for Bishops, by the power expressly granted to him by Pope Benedict XVI, remitted the automatic excommunication that they had thereby incurred, and expressed the wish that this would be followed speedily by full communion of the whole of the Society of Saint Pius X with the Church, thus bearing witness, by the proof of visible unity, to true loyalty and true recognition of the Pope's Magisterium and authority.\n\nA Note of the Secretariat of State issued on 4 February 2009 specified that, while the lifting of the excommunication freed the four bishops from a very grave canonical penalty, it made no change in the juridical situation of the Society of St. Pius X, which continued to lack canonical recognition in the Catholic Church, and that the four bishops remained without any canonical function in the Church and were not exercising legitimately any ministry within it. The note added that future recognition of the Society required full recognition of the Second Vatican Council and of the teaching of Popes John XXIII, Paul VI, John Paul I, John Paul II and Benedict XVI, and repeated the assurance given in the decree of 21 January 2009 that the Holy See would study, along with those involved, the questions not yet settled, so as to reach a full satisfactory solution of the problems that had given rise to the split.\n\nPope Benedict XVI confirmed this stance in his motu proprio \"Ecclesiae unitatem\" of 2 July 2009, in which he declared that by lifting the excommunication of the four bishops he \"intended to remove an impediment that might have jeopardized the opening of a door to dialogue and thereby to invite the Bishops and the 'Society of St Pius X' to rediscover the path to full communion with the Church. ... the remission of the excommunication was a measure taken in the context of ecclesiastical discipline to free the individuals from the burden of conscience constituted by the most serious of ecclesiastical penalties. However, the doctrinal questions obviously remain and until they are clarified the Society has no canonical status in the Church and its ministers cannot legitimately exercise any ministry.\"\n\nIn 2009, Pope Benedict XVI gave the Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith, then headed by Cardinal William Levada the task of continuing the dialogue with the Society of St Pius X on theological issues in the hope of attaining reconciliation.\n\nThe team responsible for the dialogue with the Society of St. Pius X on behalf of the Catholic Church included Charles Morerod, former \"Rector Magnificus\" and theology and philosophy professor of the Pontifical University of Saint Thomas Aquinas, \"Angelicum\".\n\nIn February 2011, Bishop Bernard Fellay, said that reconciliation talks with the Vatican would soon be coming to an end, with little change in the views of either side. In addition to disputes over the changes introduced by the Second Vatican Council, new problems had been created by plans to beatify Pope John Paul II on 1 May 2011, which, he said, posed \"a serious problem, the problem of a pontificate that caused things to proceed by leaps and bounds in the wrong direction, along 'progressive' lines, toward everything that they call 'the spirit of Vatican II.'\"\n\nOn 14 September 2011, Cardinal Levada met Bishop Fellay and presented to him a document referred to as a doctrinal preamble to possible rehabilitation of the Society and the granting to it of a canonical status within the Church. It was planned to publish the preamble or a revised version of it only after agreement with the SSPX, but the document was believed to consist essentially in the profession of faith required of persons taking up offices in the Church.\n\nThe Society responded on 21 December 2011 with what the Congregation considered documentation rather than a reply, and in the following month delivered a substantive reply. A further meeting between Levada and Fellay took place on 16 March 2012, at which Levada handed Fellay a letter evaluating the Society's response. The Holy See published a note that declared: \"In compliance with the decision by Pope Benedict XVI, the evaluation of the response of His Excellency Bishop Fellay was communicated to him by a letter delivered to him today. This evaluation notes that the position that he expressed is not sufficient to overcome the doctrinal problems that are at the basis of the rift between the Holy See and the aforesaid Society. At the conclusion of today's meeting, out of a concern for avoiding an ecclesial rupture with painful and incalculable consequences, the Superior General of the Society of Saint Pius X was invited to be so kind as to clarify his position so as to heal the existing rift, as Pope Benedict XVI wished.\" The Society, which was reported to be deeply divided on the issue of acceptance or rejection, was given until 15 April 2012 to clarify its position.\n\nOn 17 April 2012 the response reached the Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith, which studied it and submitted it to the judgement of Pope Benedict XVI. Another meeting between Levada and Fellay took place on 13 June 2012, at which the cardinal presented the Holy See's evaluation of the April response of the Society and proposed a personal prelature as the most appropriate instrument for any future canonical recognition of the Society. Bishop Fellay indicated that he could not sign the document of the Holy See's evaluation. In reply to an enquiry by Fellay whether the evaluation had been truly approved by the Pope, Benedict XVI sent him a hand-written letter assuring him that it was indeed his personal decision.\n\nIn July 2012, the Society held a general chapter to consider the June communication from the Holy See and issued a declaration that \"the Society continues to uphold the declarations and the teachings of the constant Magisterium of the Church in regard to all the novelties of the Second Vatican Council which remain tainted with errors, and also in regard to the reforms issued from it\". The Holy See declared that it awaited an official response from the Society. In an interview on 4 October 2012, Archbishop Gerhard Ludwig Müller, the new President of the Pontifical Commission \"Ecclesia Dei\", remarked, with regard to the Holy See's demand that the Society accept the decisions of the Second Vatican Council, including those on religious freedom and human rights: \"In a pastoral sense, the door is always open\"; he added: \"We cannot put the Catholic faith at the mercy of negotiations. Compromise does not exist in this field. I think that there can now be no new discussions.\" Again on 27 October 2012, the Pontifical Commission stated that the Society had indicated on 6 September 2012 that it needed more time to prepare its response to the Holy See's initiatives. The Commission commented: \"After thirty years of separation, it is understandable that time is needed to absorb the significance of these recent developments. As Our Holy Father Pope Benedict XVI seeks to foster and preserve the unity of the Church by realizing the long hoped-for reconciliation of the Priestly Fraternity of St. Pius X with the See of Peter – a dramatic manifestation of the \"munus Petrinum\" in action – patience, serenity, perseverance and trust are needed.\"\n\nA December 2012 letter, in English and in French, from Archbishop Joseph Augustine Di Noia, Vice-President of the Pontifical Commission \"Ecclesia Dei\", to all the members of the society indicated that the official reply of Bishop Fellay had not yet been received. Archbishop Di Noia lamented that some of the society's superiors \"employ language, in unofficial communications, that to all the world appears to reject the very provisions, assumed to be still under study, that are required for the reconciliation and for the canonical regularization of the Fraternity within the Catholic Church\". He added: \"The only imaginable future for the Priestly Fraternity lies along the path of full communion with the Holy See, with the acceptance of an unqualified profession of the faith in its fullness, and thus with a properly ordered ecclesial, sacramental and pastoral life.\" In a declaration of 27 June 2013, the remaining three bishops of the society (after the expulsion of Richard Williamson in 2012) said that \"the cause of the grave errors which are in the process of demolishing the Church does not reside in a bad interpretation of the conciliar texts – a 'hermeneutic of rupture' which would be opposed to a 'hermeneutic of reform in continuity' – but truly in the texts themselves\", and declared that the Mass as celebrated by the Pope and the generality of the Catholic Church's bishops and priests is \"penetrated with an ecumenical and Protestant spirit, democratic and humanist, which empties out the sacrifice of the Cross\". The Catholic News Agency saw this declaration as a repudiation of Pope Benedict XVI's teaching that the Second Vatican Council should be interpreted in a \"hermeneutic of continuity\" with previous Church teaching and as indicating a definitive break with the Catholic Church. On 12 October 2013, Fellay declared, \"We thank God, we have been preserved from any kind of agreement from last year\", and said that the society had withdrawn the text that it presented to Rome on 15 April 2012, at the same time declaring that Pope Francis was \"a genuine Modernist\".\n\nThe Italian newspaper \"Corriere della Sera\" published on 22 December 2013 an interview with Archbishop Müller in which he was asked: \"Now that the discussions have failed, what is the situation of the Lefebvrians?\" Müller replied: \"The canonical excommunication for the illicit ordinations has been lifted from the bishops, but the sacramental de facto excommunication for schism remains; they have departed from communion with the Church. We do not follow that up by shutting the door, we never do, and we call on them to be reconciled. But on their part too, they must change their attitude and accept the Catholic Church's conditions and the Supreme Pontiff as the definitive criterion of membership.\"\n"}
{"id": "7896135", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7896135", "title": "Freedom of religion by country", "text": "Freedom of religion by country\n\nThe status of religious freedom around the world varies from country to country. States can differ based on whether or not they guarantee equal treatment under law for followers of different religions, whether they establish a state religion (and the legal implications that this has for both practitioners and non-practitioners), the extent to which religious organizations operating within the country are policed, and the extent to which religious law is used as a basis for the country's legal code.\n\nThere are further discrepancies between some countries' self-proclaimed stances of religious freedom in law and the actual practice of authority bodies within those countries: a country's establishment of religious equality in their constitution or laws does not necessarily translate into freedom of practice for residents of the country. Additionally, similar practices (such as having citizens identify their religious preference to the government or on identification cards) can have different consequences depending on other sociopolitical circumstances specific to the countries in question.\n\nOver 120 national constitutions mention equality regardless of religion.\n\nFreedom of religion in Algeria is regulated by the Algerian Constitution, which declares Islam to be the state religion (Article 2) but also declares that \"freedom of creed and opinion is inviolable\" (Article 36); it prohibits discrimination, Article 29 states \"All citizens are equal before the law. No discrimination shall prevail because of birth, race, sex, opinion or any other personal or social condition or circumstance\". In practice, the government generally respects this, with some limited exceptions. The government follows a \"de facto\" policy of tolerance by allowing, in limited instances, the conduct of religious services by non-Muslim faiths in the capital which are open to the public. The small Christian and tiny Jewish populations generally practice their faiths without government interference. The law does not recognize marriages between Muslim women and non-Muslim men; it does however recognise marriages between Muslim men and non-Muslim women. By law, children follow the religion of their fathers, even if they are born abroad and are citizens of their (non-Muslim) country of birth.\n\nThe Constitution of Angola provides for freedom of religion, and the Government generally respects this right in practice. There were no reports of societal abuses or discrimination based on religious belief or practice. Christianity is the religion of the vast majority of the population, with Catholicism as the largest single religious group. The Catholic Church estimates that 55 percent of the population is Catholic. There is also a small Muslim community, estimated at 80-90,000 adherents, composed largely of migrants from West Africa and families of Lebanese extraction. There are few declared atheists in the country. Traditional African religions are adhered to by a few peripheral rural societies only, but some traditional beliefs are held by many people.\n\nMembers of the clergy regularly use their pulpits to criticize government policies, though church leaders report self-censorship regarding particularly sensitive issues. The Government banned 17 religious groups in Cabinda on charges of practicing harmful exorcism rituals on adults and children accused of \"witchcraft,\" illegally holding religious services in residences, and not being registered. Although the law does not recognize the existence of witchcraft, abusive actions committed while practicing a religion are illegal. Members of these groups were not harassed, but two leaders were convicted in 2006 of child abuse and sentenced to 8 years' imprisonment.\n\nThe Constitution of Benin provides for freedom of religion, and the government enforces this practice at all levels. Religious groups in Benin are allowed to set up private schools, but public schools are secular. Religious groups are not taxed, and proselytization is allowed.\n\nInterfaith dialogue occurs regularly, and citizens respect each other's religious beliefs, including those of syncretic nature.\n\nThe Constitution of Botswana provides for freedom of religion, and the government enforces this practice at all levels. Botswana has no state religion.\n\nReligious education is part of the curriculum in public schools; it emphasizes Christianity (the religion of roughly 70% of the population) but addresses other religious groups in the country. The constitution provides that every religious community may establish places for religious instruction at the community's expense. The constitution prohibits forced religious instruction, forced participation in religious ceremonies, or taking oaths that run counter to an individual's religious beliefs.\n\nThere are no laws against proselytizing.\n\nArticle 31 of the Constitution of Burkina Faso states that Burkina Faso is a secular state. The government respects and implements this in practice. \n\nForeign missionary groups operate freely and face few, if any, restrictions.\n\nPublic schools do not offer religious instruction. Muslim, Catholic, and Protestant groups operate primary and secondary schools. Although school officials have to submit the names of their directors to the government and register their schools, religious or otherwise, the government does not appoint or approve these officials.\n\nThe government does not fund religious schools or require them to pay taxes unless they conduct for-profit activities. The government reviews the curriculum of religious schools to ensure that they offer the full standard academic curriculum. The government, however, does not interfere with the curriculum of supplemental classes offered by private schools, such as classes on the Bible or the Qur'an.\n\nThe Constitution of Burundi provides for the freedom of religion and the government enforces this in practice.\n\nThe Constitution of Cameroon provides for freedom of religion, and the government generally respected this right in practice. The government at all levels sought to protect this right in full and did not tolerate its abuse, either by governmental or private actors. There is no official state religion.\n\nMissionary groups are present and operate without impediment. The licensing requirements for foreign groups are the same as those for domestic religious denominations.\n\nThe practice of witchcraft is a criminal offense under the national penal code, punishable by a 2 to 10-year prison term. People generally are prosecuted for this offense only in conjunction with some other offense such as murder; however, there were no reports of convictions of witchcraft under this law. The government distinguishes between witchcraft and traditional indigenous religious practices; witchcraft is defined by the law as attempts to do harm by spiritual means and is a common explanation for diseases.\n\nSeveral religious denominations operate primary and secondary schools. Although post-secondary education continues to be dominated by state institutions, private schools affiliated with religious denominations, including Catholic, Protestant, and Qur'anic schools, have been among the best schools at the primary and secondary levels for many years.\n\nThe constitution provides for freedom of religion, and the government generally respects this right in practice. There is no state religion. However, the Catholic Church maintains a privileged position in national life. For example, the government provides the Catholic Church with free television broadcast time for religious purposes (an estimated 85% of the population of Cape Verde is Catholic).\n\nThe Constitution of the Central African Republic provides for the freedom of religion, and the government generally permitted adherents of all religious groups to worship without interference. The constitution prohibits what the government considers to be religious fundamentalism or intolerance, a provision that is widely perceived as targeting Muslims in the country. There is no state religion.\n\nReligious organizations and missionary groups are free to proselytize and worship throughout the country.\n\nStudents are not compelled to participate in religious education, and they are free to attend any religious program of their choosing. Although the government does not explicitly prohibit religious instruction in public schools, such instruction is not part of the overall public school curriculum, nor is it common. Religious instruction is permitted without government interference in private schools. Private Catholic schools generally include 1 hour of religious education per week.\n\nAlthough witchcraft is a criminal offense punishable by execution under the penal code, most sentences are from 1 to 5 years in prison or a fine of up to $1,500 (817,836 CFA francs). Individuals arrested for witchcraft are generally arrested in conjunction with some other offense, such as murder.\n\nReligious groups that the Government considered \"subversive\", a term not specifically defined by the government, are subject to sanctions by the Ministry of Interior. When imposing sanctions, the Ministry of Interior may decline to register, suspend the operations of, or ban any organization that it deems offensive to public morals or likely to disturb the peace. The Ministry of Interior may also intervene in religious organizations to resolve internal conflicts about property, finances, or leadership within religious groups.\n\nArticle 1 of the Constitution of Chad declares that the country is a secular state and \"affirm[s] the separation of the religions and of the State\". However, some policies favor Islam in practice. For example, a committee composed of members of the High Council for Islamic Affairs and the Directorate of Religious Affairs in the Ministry of the Interior organizes the Hajj and the Umra. In the past the Association of Evangelical Churches criticized government-sponsored Hajj trips as eroding the traditionally secular stance of the country.\n\nThe government indirectly monitors Muslim activities through the pro-government High Islamic Council. The High Council, in coordination with the president, also has the responsibility of appointing the grand imam—a spiritual leader for all Muslims in the country who oversees each region's high imam and serves as head of the council. In principle, the grand imam has the authority to restrict proselytizing by other Islamic groups throughout the country, regulate the content of sermons in mosques, and exert control over activities of Muslim charities operating in the country. The Al Mountada al Islami and the World Association for Muslim Youth organizations were banned by the government for portraying violence as a legitimate precept of Islam. The government has also banned the Sufi religious group Al Faid al-Djaria for engaging in various practices deemed un-Islamic to religious authorities, such as the incorporation of singing and dancing into religious services.\n\nReligious leaders are also involved in managing the country's wealth. A representative of the religious community sits on the Revenue Management College, the body that oversees the allocation of oil revenues. The seat rotates between Muslim and Christian leaders every 4 years.\n\nPublic schools conduct instruction in French, and public bilingual schools conduct classes in French and Arabic. The government prohibits religious instruction in public schools but permits all religious groups to operate private schools without restriction. The poor quality of Chad's educational system has prompted many Muslim families to look to Islamic schools as an opportunity for educating children who would otherwise have little or no access to formal schooling. Most large towns have at least one or two private religious schools. Although the government does not publish official records on school funding, many Islamic schools were commonly understood to be financed by Arab donors (governments, nongovernmental organizations (NGOs), and individuals), particularly from Saudi Arabia, Egypt, and Libya.\n\nThe Constitution of the Comoros provides for freedom of religion, but the government limits this right in practice. In 2009, an amendment to the constitution established Islam as the state religion.\n\nForeigners caught proselytizing for religions other than Islam are subject to deportation. While the law allows non-Muslims to practice their religion, it prohibits citizens from converting away from Islam. Although enforceable, this law is rarely applied.\n\nThe Grand Mufti of Comoros is part of the government and manages a department that handles issues concerning religion and religious administration. The Grand Mufti's position is attached to the Ministry of Islamic Affairs, and he advises the Government on matters of Islamic faith and ensures that Islamic laws are respected. He is nominated by the president of Comoros. The Grand Mufti periodically consults with a group of elders to assess whether the principles of Islam are respected, and he regularly addresses the nation on the radio regarding social and religious issues such as marriage, divorce, and education.\n\nWhile the study of Islam is not compulsory in public schools, the tenets of Islam are sometimes taught in conjunction with the Arabic language in public schools at the middle school level. \n\nThere is societal discrimination against non-Muslims, particularly Christians, in some sectors of society. All citizens face societal pressure to practice elements of Islam, particularly during the month of Ramadan. Most societal pressure and discrimination occurs behind closed doors at the village level. The extent of de facto discrimination typically depends on the level of involvement of local Islamic teachers. Most non-Muslim citizens did not openly practice their faith for fear of societal rejection. Persons who raise their children with non-Muslim religious teachings face societal discrimination. Societal pressure and intimidation continued to restrict the use of the country's three churches to non-citizens.\n\nThe constitution provides for freedom of religion, and the government generally respects this right in practice, although it often lacks the institutional infrastructure to enforce anti-discrimination laws. However, violence between Muslims and other religious groups in the Congo, especially Congolese Christians, has been attested in North Kivu since 2014 in connection with the Allied Democratic Forces insurgency begun in neighboring Uganda. The Allied Democratic Forces, whose political ideology is based on Islamism, is widely suspected of having perpetrated the Beni massacre in August 2016.\n\nThe law provides for the establishment and operation of religious institutions and requires practicing religious groups to register with the government; registration requirements were simple and implemented in a nondiscriminatory manner. In practice unregistered religious groups operated unhindered.\n\nArticle 1 of the Constitution of Djibouti names Islam as the sole state religion, and Article 11 provides for the equality of citizens of all faiths and freedom of religious practice. The equality of citizens regardless of religion is also stressed repeatedly in other articles as well. The constitution also forbids religiously-based political parties in Article 6.\n\nAccording to the International Religious Freedom Report 2014, while Muslim Djiboutians have the legal right to convert to or marry someone from another faith, converts may encounter negative reactions from their family and clan or from society at large, and they often face pressure to revert to Islam.\n\nIn 2012, a law was passed that grants the Ministry of Religious Affairs increased oversight of Djibouti’s mosques, including of messages disseminated during Friday prayers. The Ministry of Islamic Affairs reportedly used the new law that regulated mosques to replace imams and temporarily close some mosques. Some imams reported being questioned by security services following sermons with strong political and social justice themes. There were also reports of plainclothes officers monitoring the content of Friday sermons and the activities of people attending mosque services.\n\nIn 2014, the government issued a decree executing a law on state control of mosques which converted the status of imams into civil service employees under the Ministry of Islamic Affairs and transferred ownership of mosque properties and other assets to the government. The Secretary General of the Ministry of Religious Affairs stated the decree aims to eliminate political activity from mosques and provide greater government oversight of mosque assets and activities. Government officials also indicated the law was designed to counter perceived foreign influence in mosques.\n\nAccording to article 23 of the Family Code, a non-Muslim man may marry a Muslim woman only after converting to Islam. Non-Islamic marriages are not legally recognized by the government, which only recognizes marriages performed in accordance with the Ministry of Islamic Affairs or the Ministry of the Interior.\n\nThere are approximately 40 private Islamic schools nationwide, which are managed by the Ministry of Islamic Affairs and the Ministry of Education. The public schools remain secular, although the Ministry of Islamic Affairs instituted a program in which religious leaders visit the secular schools for an hour to answer religious questions in non-mandatory events.\n\nConstitutionally, freedom of belief is \"absolute\" and the practice of religious rites is provided in Egypt, but the government has historically persecuted its Coptic minority and unrecognized religions. Islam is the official state religion, and Shari'a is the primary source of all new legislation. Egypt's population is majority Sunni Muslims. Shi'a Muslims constitute less than 1 percent of the population. Estimates of the percentage of Christians range from 10 to 20 percent.\n\nCoptic Christians, an ethnoreligious group indigenous to Egypt, face discrimination at multiple levels of the government, ranging from a disproportional representation in government ministries to laws that limit their ability to build or repair churches. Coptic Christians are minimally represented in law enforcement, state security, and public office, and are discriminated against in the workforce on the basis of their religion. In 2009, The Pew Forum ranked Egypt among the 12 worst countries in the world in terms of religious violence against religious minorities and in terms of social hostilities against Christians.\n\nThe Ahmadiyya movement in Egypt, which numbers up to 50,000 adherents in the country, was established in 1922 but has seen an increase in hostility and government repression as of the 21st century. The Al-Azhar University has denounced the Ahmadis and Ahmadis have been hounded by police along with other Muslim groups deemed to be deviant under Egypt's defamation laws.\n\nEgypt's government-issued ID cards have historically declared the holder's religion, but only the religions of Islam, Christianity, and Judaism were considered valid options by the government. As an unrecognized religious group that faced explicit government persecution for much of the 20th century, members of the Bahá'í Faith in Egypt (est. pop 2,000) historically would rely on sympathetic government clerks to get their ID cards marked with either a dash, \"other\", or Bahái.\n\nAs Egypt adopted an electronic ID system in the 1990s, Electronic processing locked out the possibility of an unlisted religion, or any religious affiliation other than Muslim, Christian, or Jewish. Consequently, adherents of any other faith (or no faith) became unable to obtain any government identification documents (such as national identification cards, birth certificates, death certificates, marriage or divorce certificates, or passports) necessary to exercise their rights in their country unless they lied about their religion. Bahá'ís became virtual non-citizens, without access to employment, education, and all government services, including hospital care.\n\nIn a series of court cases from 2006 to 2008, judges ruled that the government should issue ID cards with a dash instead of religious affiliation for Bahái citizens. The issue is presumed to have been resolved as of 2009.\n\nThere are Egyptians who identify themselves as atheist and agnostic. It is however difficult to quantify their number as the stigma attached to being one makes it hard for irreligious Egyptians to publicly profess their views. Furthermore, public statements that can be deemed critical of Islam or Christianity can be tried under the country's notorious blasphemy law. Outspoken atheists, like Alber Saber, have been convicted under this law.\n\nThe number of atheists is reportedly on the rise among the country's youth, many of whom organize and communicate with each other on the internet. In 2013 an Egyptian newspaper reported that 3 million out of 84 million Egyptians are atheists. While the government has acknowledged this trend, it has dealt with it as a problem that needs to be confronted, comparing it to religious extremism. Despite hostile sentiments towards them atheists in Egypt have become increasingly vocal on internet platforms like YouTube and Facebook since the Egyptian revolution of 2011, with some videos discussing atheist ideas receiving millions of views.\n\nIn a 2011 Pew Research poll of 1,798 Muslims in Egypt, 63% of those surveyed supported \"the death penalty for people who leave the Muslim religion.\" However, no such punishment actually exists in the country. In January 2018 the head of the parliament's religious committee, Amr Hamroush, suggested a bill to make atheism illegal, stating that \"it [atheism] must be criminalised and categorised as contempt of religion because atheists have no doctrine and try to insult the Abrahamic religions\".\n\nAtheists or irreligious people cannot change their official religious status, thus statistically they are counted as followers of the religion they were born with.\n\nThe Constitution of Equatorial Guinea provides for the freedom of religion, and prohibits the establishment of political parties on the basis of religion. The law establishes no state religion, but the government gives preference to the Roman Catholic Church and the Reformed Church of Equatorial Guinea, which are the only religious groups not required to register their organization or activities with the Ministry of Justice, Religious Affairs, and Penitentiary Institutions (MJRAPI)\n\nThe government provides funds to the Catholic Church and its schools for educational programming. Catholic masses are also a normal part of official government ceremonial functions. \n\nPermits are required for door-to-door proselytism. While some time limits are officially imposed on public religious activities, Evangelical Christian groups often hold activities outside the prescribed period without government intervention.\n\nEritrea officially recognizes only the Orthodox, Catholic, and Lutheran Christian churches and Sunni Islam. Those practicing religions that are not recognized face imprisonment. Human rights groups like Amnesty International and Human Rights Watch have documented serious violations of the right to freedom of religion. They report disruption of private worship, mass arrests of participants at religious weddings, prayer meetings, and other gatherings.\n\nThe constitution and laws protect religious freedom in Eswatini, but \"minority religious groups enjoy fewer protections under traditional laws and customs, which include traditional courts and the authority of approximately 360 chiefs\", according to a U.S. State Department report on religious freedom. \"When a religious group's practices conflict with tradition and culture as defined by chiefs, they may direct community pressure against the group.\" Religious groups must obtain the approval of chiefs before constructing houses of worship. New congregations must submit applications to the authorities through one of three umbrella bodies: the League of Churches, Swaziland Conference of Churches, or Council of Swaziland Churches. Believers practice openly and without interference, with Muslim clergy being permitted access to prisoners and Baha'i Baha'i schools allowed to close on that religion's holy days. Despite a general respect for religious freedom, however, there is still a degree of societal discrimination, especially toward non-Christian faiths.\n\n The constitution of Ethiopia codifies the separation of religion and the state, establishes freedom of religious choice, prohibits religious discrimination, and stipulates that the government will not interfere in the practice of any religion. The federal government generally follows these principles, although there have been abuses at the level of local government. Protestant and Muslim groups have alleged that the government discriminates against them.\n\nReligious groups must register with the government to obtain legal status, which grants them the right to congregate in public and to request land from the government for the construction of religious buildings.\n\nReligious instruction is not allowed in public or private schools. However, a separate category of religious schools are allowed to provide religious instruction.\n\nThere have been isolated incidents of violence between religious groups.\n\nPolitical parties based on religious denominations are not allowed.\n\nThe constitution of Gabon prohibits religious discrimination and provides for the freedom of religion and equality for all, irrespective of religious belief. It grants religious groups autonomy and the right to provide religious instruction.\n\nThe state provides for public education based on “religious neutrality.” Public schools are secular and do not provide religious instruction. Muslim, Catholic, and Protestant groups operate primary and secondary schools, in which representatives of religious groups give religious instruction. These schools must register with the Ministry of Education (Gabon), which ensures they meet the same standards as public schools.\n\nCatholic, Muslim, and Protestant leaders meet regularly and work together to promote religious tolerance.\n\nFreedom of religion in Mauritania is limited by the government. The constitution establishes the country as an Islamic republic and decrees that Islam is the religion of its citizens and the State. In April 2018, the National Assembly passed a law making the death penalty mandatory for \"blasphemy\".\n\nNon-Muslim resident expatriates and a few non-Muslim citizens practice their religion openly with certain limitations against proselytizing to Muslims and transmitting religious materials. Almost all of the population are practicing Sunni Muslims, although there are a few non-Muslims. Roman Catholic and non-denominational Christian churches have been established in Nouakchott, Atar, Zouerate, Nouadhibou, and Rosso. A number of expatriates practice Judaism but there are no synagogues.\n\nRelations between the Muslim community and the small non-Muslim community are generally amicable. There are several foreign faith-based nongovernmental organizations (NGO's) active in humanitarian and developmental work in the country.\n\nThe government does not register religious groups; however, secular NGOs, inclusive of humanitarian and development NGO's affiliated with religious groups, must register with the Ministry of the Interior.\n\nNigeria is nearly equally divided between Christianity and Islam, though the exact ratio is uncertain. There is also a growing population of non-religious Nigerians who accounted for the remaining 5 percent. The majority of Nigerian Muslims are Sunni and are concentrated in the northern region of the country, while Christians dominate in the south.\n\nNigeria allows freedom of religion. Islam and Christianity are the two major religions. 12 states in Nigeria use a sharia-based penal code, which can include penalties for apostasy. Religious persecution is largely carried out by groups not affiliated with the Nigerian government, such as Boko Haram. There is a great stigma attached to being an atheist.\n\nSouth Africa is a secular democracy with freedom of religion guaranteed by its constitution. Pursuant to Section 9 of the Constitution, the Equality Act of 2000 prohibits unfair discrimination on various grounds including religion. The Equality Act does not apply to unfair discrimination in the workplace, which is covered by the Employment Equity Act.\n\nThe Witchcraft Suppression Act of 1957 based on colonial witchcraft legislation criminalises claiming a knowledge of witchcraft, conducting specified practices associated with witchcraft including the use of charms and divination, and accusing others of practising witchcraft. In 2007 the South African Law Reform Commission received submissions from the South African Pagan Rights Alliance and the Traditional Healers Organisation requesting the investigation of the constitutionality of the act and on 23 March 2010 the Minister of Justice and Constitutional Development approved a South African Law Reform Commission project to review witchcraft legislation.\n\nAlthough the 2005 Interim National Constitution (INC) of Sudan provides for freedom of religion throughout the entire country of Sudan, the INC enshrines Shari'a as a source of legislation in the country and the official laws and policies of the government systematically favor Islam.\n\nDiscrimination based on religious affiliation, belief, or practice, and religious prejudice remains widespread. Muslims who express an interest in Christianity, or convert to Christianity, face strong social pressure to recant. Muslims who convert to Christianity can face the death penalty for apostasy.\n\nIn May 2014, a woman called Maryam Yaḥyā Ibrahīm Isḥaq was sentenced to a hundred lashes for adultery and to death for apostasy. Her mother raised her a Christian since her Muslim father was absent, but the Sudanese legal system considers her a Muslim. Isḥaq was sentenced to a hundred lashes for adultery because she married a Christian man from South Sudan, while Muslim law considers her a Muslim and the marriage invalid. When Isḥaq argued she was a Christian, she was sentenced to death for apostasy.\n\nThe verdict breaches the Sudanese constitution and commitments based on regional and international law. Western embassies, Amnesty International and other human rights groups protested that Ishaq should be able to choose her religion and should be released. She was later released and after further delays left Sudan.\n\nThe constitution of Southern Sudan provides for freedom of religion, and other laws and policies of the Government of South Sudan contribute to the generally free practice of religion.\n\nThe Pew Research Center on Religion and Public Life report from December 2012 estimated that in 2010, there were 6.010 million Christians (60.46%), 3.270 million followers of African Traditional Religion (32.9%), 610,000 Muslims (6.2%) and 50,000 unaffiliated (no known religion) of a total 9,940,000 people in South Sudan.\n\nAfghanistan is an Islamic republic where Islam is practiced by 99.7% of its population. Roughly 90% of the Afghans follow Sunni Islam, with the rest practicing Shia Islam. Apart from Muslims, there are also small minorities of Sikhs and Hindus.\n\nThe Constitution of Afghanistan established on January 23, 2004 mandates that:\n\n\nIn practice, the constitution limits the political rights of Afghanistan's non-Muslims, and only Muslims are allowed to become the President.\n\nIn March 2015, a 27-year-old Afghan woman was murdered by a mob in Kabul over false allegations of burning a copy of the Koran. After beating and kicking Farkhunda, the mob threw her over a bridge, set her body on fire and threw it in the river.\n\nHistorically, the Taliban, which controlled Afghanistan from 1996 to 2001, prohibited free speech about religious issues or discussions that challenge orthodox Sunni Muslim views. Repression by the Taliban of the Hazara ethnic group, which is predominantly Shia Muslim, was particularly severe. Although the conflict between the Hazaras and the Taliban was political and military as well as religious, and it is not possible to state with certainty that the Taliban engaged in its campaign against the Shi'a solely because of their religious beliefs, the religious affiliation of the Hazaras apparently was a significant factor leading to their repression. After the United States invasion of Afghanistan in 2001, the Taliban was forced out of power and began an insurgency against the new government and allied US forces. The Taliban continues to prohibit music, movies, and television on religious grounds in areas that it still holds.\n\nAccording to the U.S. Military, the Taliban controls 10% of Afghanistan as of December 2017. There are also pockets of territory controlled by Islamic State affiliates. On October 14, 2017, \"The Guardian\" reported that there were then between 600 and 800 ISIL-KP militants left in Afghanistan, who are mostly concentrated in Nangarhar Province.\n\nAs of 2011, most Armenians are Christians(94.8%)and members of Armenia's own church, the Armenian Apostolic Church.\n\nThe Constitution of Armenia as amended in December 2005 provides for freedom of religion; however, the law places some restrictions on the religious freedom of adherents of minority religious groups, and there were some restrictions in practice. The Armenian Apostolic Church which has formal legal status as the national church, enjoys some privileges not available to other religious groups. Some denominations reported occasional discrimination by mid- or low-level government officials but found high-level officials to be tolerant. Societal attitudes toward some minority religious groups were ambivalent, and there were reports of societal discrimination directed against members of these groups.\n\nThe law does not mandate registration of nongovernmental organizations (NGOs), including religious groups; however, only registered organizations have legal status. Only registered groups may publish newspapers or magazines, rent meeting places, broadcast programs on television or radio, or officially sponsor the visas of visitors, although there is no prohibition on individual members doing so. There were no reports of the Government refusing registration to religious groups that qualified for registration under the law. To qualify for registration, religious organizations must \"be free from materialism and of a purely spiritual nature,\" and must subscribe to a doctrine based on \"historically recognized holy scriptures.\" The Office of the State Registrar registers religious entities. The Department of Religious Affairs and National Minorities oversees religious affairs and performs a consultative role in the registration process. A religious organization must have at least 200 adult members to register.\n\nThe Law on Freedom of Conscience prohibits \"proselytizing\" but does not define it. The prohibition applies to all groups, including the Armenian Church. Most registered religious groups reported no serious legal impediments to their activities.\n\nThe Constitution of Azerbaijan provides that persons of all faiths may choose and practice their religion without restriction, although, some sources state that there have been some abuses and restrictions. Azerbaijan is a majority Muslim country. Various estimates calculate that upwards of 95% of the population identify as Muslim. Most are adherents of Shia branch with a minority (15%) being Sunni Muslim, although differences traditionally have not been defined sharply. For many Azerbaijanis, Islam tends toward a more ethnic/nationalistic identity than a purely religious one.\n\nReligious groups are required by law to register with the State Committee on Religious Associations of the Republic of Azerbaijan. Organizations which fail to register may be considered illegal and may be forbidden to operate within Azerbaijan. Some religious groups reported delays in and denials of their registration attempts. There are limitations upon the ability of groups to import religious literature. Most religious groups met without government interference; however, local authorities monitored religious services, and officials at times harassed and detained members of \"nontraditional\" religious groups. There were some reports of societal abuses or discrimination based on religious belief or practice. The US. State Department reported prejudice against Muslims who convert to other faiths and hostility toward groups that proselytize, particularly evangelical Christian and other missionary groups, as well as Iranian groups and Salafists, who are seen as a threat to security.\n\nBangladesh was founded as a secular state, but Islam was made the state religion in the 1980s. However, in 2010, the High Court held up the secular principles of the 1972 constitution. The Constitution of Bangladesh establishes Islam as the state religion but also allows other religions to be practiced in harmony.\n\nWhile the government of Bangladesh does not interfere in the free practice of religion by people within its borders, incidences of individual violence against minority groups are common. In particular, Chakma Buddhists, Hindus, Christians, and Ahmadiyya Muslims are subject to persecution. Additionally, atheists face persecution, with prominent bloggers having been assassinated by radical groups, such as the Ansarullah Bangla Team.\n\nArticle 43 of the Constitution of the Kingdom of Cambodia reads: \"Khmer citizens of either sex shall have the right to freedom of belief. Freedom of religious belief and worship shall be guaranteed by the State on the condition that such freedom does not affect other religious beliefs or violate public order and security. Buddhism shall be the State religion.\"\n\nThe Constitution of the People's Republic of China provides for freedom of religious belief; however, the government restricts religious practice to government-sanctioned organizations and registered places of worship and controls the growth and scope of the activity of religious groups. The government of China currently recognizes five religious groups: the Buddhist Association of China, the Chinese Taoist Association, the Islamic Association of China, the Three-Self Patriotic Movement (a Protestant group), and the Chinese Patriotic Catholic Association.\n\nMembers of the governing Communist Party are strongly discouraged from holding religious faith.\n\nA significant number of non-sanctioned churches and temples exist, attended by locals and foreigners alike. Unregistered or underground churches are not officially banned, but are not permitted to openly conduct religious services. These bodies may face varying degrees of interference, harassment, and persecution by state and party organs. In some instances, unregistered religious believers and leaders have been charged with \"illegal religious activities\" or \"disrupting social stability.\" Religious believers have also been charged under article 300 of the criminal code, which forbids using heretical organizations to \"undermine the implementation of the law.\"\n\nFollowing a period of meteoric growth of Falun Gong in the 1990s, the Communist Party launched a campaign to \"eradicate\" Falun Gong on 20 July 1999. The suppression is characterised by multifaceted propaganda campaign, a program of enforced ideological conversion and re-education, and a variety of extralegal coercive measures such as arbitrary arrests, forced labor, and physical torture, sometimes resulting in death.\n\nAn extra-constitutional body called the 6-10 Office was created to lead the suppression of Falun Gong. The authorities mobilized the state media apparatus, judiciary, police, army, the education system, families and workplaces against the group. The campaign is driven by large-scale propaganda through television, newspaper, radio and internet. There are reports of systematic torture, illegal imprisonment, forced labor, organ harvesting and abusive psychiatric measures, with the apparent aim of forcing practitioners to recant their belief in Falun Gong.\n\nPrior to Tibet's incorporation into China, Tibet was a theocracy with the Dalai Lama functioning as the head of government. Since incorporation into China, Dalai Lama have at times sanctioned Chinese control of the territory, while at other times they have been a focal point of political and spiritual opposition to the Chinese government. As various high-ranking Lamas in the country have died, the Chinese government has proposed their own candidates for these positions, which has led at times to rival claimants to the same position. In an effort to further control Tibetan Buddhism and thus Tibet, the Chinese government passed a law in 2007 requiring a Reincarnation Application be completed and approved for all lamas wishing to reincarnate.\n\nEthnicity plays a large role in the Chinese government's attitude toward Muslim worship. Authorities in Xinjiang impose strict restrictions on Uyghur Muslims: mosques are monitored by the government, Ramadan observance is restricted, and the government has run campaigns to discourage men from growing beards which are associated with fundamentalist Islam. Individual Uyghur Muslims have been detained for practicing their religion. However, this persecution is largely due to the association of Islam with Uyghur separatism. Hui Muslims living in China do not face the same degree of persecution, and the government has at times been particularly lenient toward Hui practitioners. Although religious education for children is officially forbidden by law in China, the Communist party allows Hui Muslims to violate this law and have their children educated in religion and attend Mosques while the law is enforced on Uyghurs. After secondary education is completed, China then allows Hui students who are willing to embark on religious studies under an Imam. China does not enforce the law against children attending Mosques on non-Uyghurs in areas outside of Xinjiang.\n\nToward the end of the 20th century, China's government began to more openly encourage the practice of various traditional cults, particularly the state cults devoted to the Yellow Emperor and the Red Emperor. In the early 2000s, the Chinese government became open especially to traditional religions such as Mahayana Buddhism, Taoism and folk religion, emphasising the role of religion in building a \"Harmonious Society\" (\"hexie shehui\"), a Confucian idea. Aligning with Chinese anthropologists' emphasis on \"religious culture\", the government considers these religions as integral expressions of national \"Chinese culture\" and part of China's intangible cultural heritage.\n\nThe Republic of Cyprus largely upholds and respects religious freedom within its territory. However, individual cases of religious discrimination against Muslims have occurred. In 2016, a 19th-century mosque was attacked by arsonists, an action condemned by the government.\n\nIn 2018, the Cyprus Humanist Association accused the Ministry of Education of promoting anti-atheist educational content on its government website.\n\nWhile freedom of religion is constitutionally protected in Turkish occupied Northern Cyprus, the government has at times restricted the practice of Greek Orthodox Churches. A controversial 2016 decision restricts most Orthodox churches to celebrate a single religious service per year.\n\nThe Indian constitution's preamble states that India is a secular state. Freedom of religion is a fundamental right guaranteed by the constitution. According to Article 25 of the Indian Constitution, every citizen of India has the right to \"profess, practice and propagate religion\", \"subject to public order, morality and health\" and also subject to other provisions under that article.\n\nArticle 25 (2b) uses the term \"Hindus\" for all classes and sections of Hindus, Jains, Buddhists and Sikhs. Sikhs and Buddhists objected to this wording that makes many Hindu personal laws applicable to them. However, the same article also guarantees the right of members of the Sikh faith to bear a Kirpan.\n\nReligions require no registration. The government can ban a religious organisation if it disrupts communal harmony, has been involved in terrorism or sedition, or has violated the Foreign Contributions Act. The government limits the entry of any foreign religious institution or missionary and since the 1960s, no new foreign missionaries have been accepted though long term established ones may renew their visas. Many sections of the law prohibit hate speech and provide penalties for writings, illustrations, or speech that insult a particular community or religion.\n\nSome major religious holidays like Diwali (Hindu), Christmas (Christian), Eid (Muslim) and Guru Nanak's birth anniversary (Sikh) are considered national holidays. Private schools offering religious instruction are permitted while government schools are non-religious.\n\nThe government has set up the Ministry of Minority Affairs, the National Human Rights Commission(NHRC) and the National Commission for Minorities(NCM) to investigate religious discrimination and to make recommendations for redressal to the local authorities. Though they do not have any power, local and central authorities generally follow them. These organisations have investigated numerous instances of religious tension including the implementation of \"anti-conversion\" bills in numerous states, the 2002 Gujarat violence against Muslims, The Exodus of Kashmiri Hindus from the state of Jammu and Kashmir in 1990s and the 2008 attacks against Christians in Orissa.\n\nThe Grand Ashura Procession In Kashmir where Shia Muslims mourn the death of Husayn ibn Ali has been banned by the Government of Jammu and Kashmir since the 1990s. People taking part in it are detained, and injured by Jammu and Kashmir Police every year. According to the government, this restriction was placed due to security reasons. Local religious authorities and separatist groups condemned this action and said it is a violation of their fundamental religious rights.\n\nThe Indonesian Constitution states \"every person shall be free to choose and to practice the religion of his/her choice\" and \"guarantees all persons the freedom of worship, each according to his/her own religion or belief\". It also states that \"the nation is based upon belief in one supreme God.\" The first tenet of the country's national ideology, Pancasila, similarly declares belief in one God. Government employees are required to swear allegiance to the nation and to the Pancasila ideology. While there are no official laws against atheism, a lack of religious belief is contrary to the first tenet of Pancasila, and atheists have been charged and prosecuted for blasphemy. Other laws and policies at the national and regional levels restrict certain types of religious activity, particularly among unrecognized religious groups and \"deviant\" sects of recognized religious groups.\n\nThe government officially only recognises six religions, namely Islam, Protestantism, Catholicism, Hinduism, Buddhism and Confucianism.\n\nThe Iranian constitution was drafted during the Iranian Constitutional Revolution in 1906; While the constitution was modelled on Belgium's 1831 constitution, the provisions guaranteeing freedom of worship were omitted. Subsequent legislation provided some recognition to the religious minorities of Zoroastrians, Jews and Christians, in addition to majority Muslim population, as equal citizens under state law, but it did not guarantee freedom of religion and \"gave unprecedented institutional powers to the clerical establishment.\" The Islamic Republic of Iran, that was established after the Iranian revolution, recognizes four religions, whose status is formally protected: Zoroastrianism, Judaism, Christianity, and Islam. Members of the first three groups receive special treatment under law, and five of the 270 seats in parliament are reserved for members of these religious groups. However, senior government posts including the presidency are reserved exclusively for followers of Shia Islam.\n\nAdditionally, adherents of the Bahá'í Faith, Iran's largest religious minority, are not recognized and are persecuted. Bahá'ís have been subjected to unwarranted arrests, false imprisonment, executions, confiscation and destruction of property owned by individuals and the Bahá'í community, denial of civil rights and liberties, and denial of access to higher education. Since the Islamic Revolution of 1979, Iranian Bahá'ís have regularly had their homes ransacked or been banned from attending university or holding government jobs, and several hundred have received prison sentences for their religious beliefs. Bahá'í cemeteries have been desecrated and property seized and occasionally demolished, including the House of Mírzá Buzurg, Bahá'u'lláh's father. The House of the Báb in Shiraz has been destroyed twice, and is one of three sites to which Bahá'ís perform pilgrimage.\n\nIraq is a constitutional democracy with a republican, federal, pluralistic system of government, consisting of 18 provinces or \"governorates.\" Although the Constitution recognizes Islam as the official religion and states that no law may be enacted that contradicts the established provisions of Islam, it also guarantees freedom of thought, conscience, and religious belief and practice.\n\nWhile the Government generally endorses these rights, political instability during the Iraq War and the ongoing Iraqi Civil War have prevented effective governance in parts of the country not controlled by the Government, and the Government's ability to protect religious freedoms has been handicapped by insurgency, terrorism, and sectarian violence.\n\nSince 2003, when the government of Saddam Hussein fell, the Iraqi government has generally not engaged in state-sponsored persecution of any religious group, calling instead for tolerance and acceptance of all religious minorities. However, some government institutions have continued their long-standing discriminatory practices against the Baha'i and Sunni Muslims.\n\nUprisings of the Islamic State (IS), formerly called the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) or the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria (ISIS), have led to violations of religious freedom in certain parts of Iraq. IS is a Sunni jihadist group that claims religious authority over all Muslims across the world and aspires to bring most of the Muslim-inhabited regions of the world under its political control beginning with Iraq. ISIS follows an extreme anti-Western interpretation of Islam, promotes religious violence and regards those who do not agree with its interpretations as infidels or apostates. Concurrently, IS aims to establish a Salafist-orientated Islamist state in Iraq, Syria and other parts of the Levant.\n\nIsrael's Basic Law of promises freedom and full social and political equality, regardless of political affiliation, while also describing the country as a \"Jewish and democratic state\". However, the Pew Research Center has identified Israel as one of the countries that places high restrictions on religion, and the U.S. State Department notes that while the government generally respects religious freedom in practice, governmental and legal discrimination against non-Jews non-Orthodox Jews exist, including arrests, detentions, and the preferential funding of Jewish schools and religious organizations over similar organizations serving other religious groups. On July 18, 2018, Israel adopted defining itself as \"the homeland of the Jewish people in which the Jewish people fulfill their self-determination according to their cultural and historical legacy.\"\n\nVarious observers have objected that archaeological and construction practices funded by the Israeli government are used to bolster Jewish claims to the land while ignoring other sites of archaeological importance, some going as far as to claim that Israel systematically disrespected sites of Christian and Muslim cultural and historical importance.\n\nSeveral influential political parties within Israel's Knesset have explicitly religious character and politics (Shas, The Jewish Home, United Torah Judaism). Shas and United Torah Judaism represent different ethnic subgroups of the Haredi Jewish community in Israel. These parties seek to strengthen Jewish religious laws in the country and enforce more ultra-orthodox customs on the rest of the population, among other political platforms specific to their voterbase.Historically the state's treatment of Haredi Jewish communities has been an issue of political contention, and different Haredi communities are divided on their attitude toward the Israeli state itself. The Jewish Home represents the religious right-wing Israeli settler communities in the West Bank.\n\nWhile Israel's legal tradition is based on English Common Law, not Jewish Halakha, Halakha is applied in many civil matters, such as laws relating to marriage and divorce, and legal rulings concerning the Temple Mount. Israeli authorities have codified a number of religious laws in the country's political laws, including an official ban on commerce on \"Shabbat\" and a 1998 ban on the importation of nonkosher meat.\n\nThe Israeli Law of Return provides that any Jew, or the child or grandchild of a Jew, may immigrate to Israel with their spouse and children. Israel's process for determining the validity of a prospective immigrant's claim to Judaism has changed over time, and has been subject to various controversies.\n\nIsrael's 1967 Protection of Holy Sites Law protects the holy sites of all religious groups in the country. The government also provides for the maintenance and upkeep of holy sites, although The U.S. State Department has noted that Jewish sites receive considerably more funding than Muslim sites, and that the government additionally provides for the construction of new Jewish synagogues and cemeteries.\n\nThe government of Israel has repeatedly upheld a policy of not allowing non-Muslims to pray at the Temple Mount/Haram al-Sharif since their annexation of East Jerusalem and the Temple Mount/Haram al-Sharif site in 1967. The government has ruled to allow access to the compound for individuals regardless of faith, but removes non-Muslims if they appear to be praying and sometimes restricts access for non-Muslims and young Muslim men, citing security concerns. Since 2000, the Jerusalem Islamic Waqf that manages the site and the Al-Aqsa Mosque has restricted non-Muslims from entering the Dome of the Rock shrine and Al-Aqsa, and prohibits wearing or displaying non-Muslim religious symbols.\n\nThe religious practices allowed at the Western Wall are established by the Rabbi of the Western Wall, appointed jointly by the Prime Minister of Israel and chief rabbis. Mixed-gender prayer is forbidden at the Western Wall, in deference to Orthodox Jewish practice. Women are not allowed to wear certain prayer shawls, and are not allowed to read aloud from the Torah at the Wall.\n\nIn the West Bank, Israel and the Palestinian National Authority (PA) enforce varying aspects of religious freedom. The laws of both Israel and the Palestinian National Authority protect religious freedom, and generally enforce these protections in practice. The PA enforces the Palestinian Basic Law, which provides for the freedom of religion, belief, and practice within the territories it administers. It also holds that Islam is the official religion of the Palestinian Territories, and that legislation should be based on interpretations of Islamic Law. Six seats in the 132-member Palestinian Legislative Council are reserved for Christians, while no other religious guarantees or restrictions are enforced. The PA recognizes a Friday-Saturday weekend, but allows Christians to work on Saturday in exchange for a day off on Sunday. Heightened tensions exist between Jewish and non-Jewish residents of this territory, although relations between other religious groups are relatively cordial.\n\nThe Palestinian Authority provides funding for Muslim and Christian holy sites in the West Bank and has been noted to give preferential treatment to Muslim sites, while the Israeli Government funds Jewish sites. Matters of inheritance, marriage, and dowry are handled by religious courts of the appropriate religion for the people in question, with members of faiths unrecognized by the PA are often advised to go abroad to resolve their affairs. Religious education is mandatory for grades 1 through 6 in schools funded by the PA, with separate courses available for Muslims and Christians.\n\nWhile it is not strictly a religious ban, Israeli policies restricting the freedom of movement of Palestinians throughout the West Bank and between the West Bank and Israel restrict the ability for Palestinians to visit certain religious sites, such as the Church of the Holy Sepulchre, the Al-Aqsa Mosque, and the Church of the Nativity. These restrictions are sometimes relaxed for portions of the population on specific holidays. Christian groups have complained that an extended visa application process for the West Bank has impeded their ability to operate there. Jews are routinely provided access to specific holy sites in territories under the control of the PA, and holy sites such as the that are significant to both Jews and Muslims, Cave of the Patriarchs, enforce restricted access to either group on different days, with Jews often facing less restricted access and lighter security screening.\n\nDespite nominally being a part of the territory administered by the Palestinian National Authority, the Gaza Strip has been de facto controlled by Hamas since the 2006 Palestinian civil skirmishes. Religious freedom in Gaza is curtailed by Hamas, which imposes a stricter interpretation of Islamic law and at times has broadcast explicitly anti-Jewish propaganda. Due to the blockade of the Gaza Strip, Muslim residents of Gaza are not allowed by the Israeli government to visit holy sites in Israel or the West Bank, and Christian clergy from outside Gaza are not allowed access to the region. However, some Christian residents of Gaza have been issued permits by Israel to enter Israel and the West Bank during Christmas to visit family and holy sites.\n\nHamas largely tolerates the Christian population of the Gaza Strip and does not force Christians to follow Islamic law. However, Christians at times face harassment, and there are concerns that Hamas does not sufficiently protect them from religiously motivated violence perpetrated by other groups in the Gaza Strip.\n\nHistorically, Japan had a long tradition of mixed religious practice between Shinto and Buddhism since the introduction of Buddhism in the 7th century. Though the Emperor of Japan is supposed to be the direct descendant of Amaterasu Ōmikami, the Shinto sun goddess, all Imperial family members, as well as almost all Japanese, were Buddhists who also practiced Shinto religious rites as well. Christianity flourished when it was first introduced by Francis Xavier, but was soon violently suppressed.\n\nAfter the Meiji Restoration, Japan tried to reform its state to resemble a European constitutional monarchy. The Emperor, Buddhism, and Shintoism were officially separated and Shintoism was set as the state religion. The Constitution specifically stated that Emperor is \"holy and inviolable\" (). During the period of Hirohito, the status of emperor was further elevated to be a living god (). This ceased at the end of World War II, when the current constitution was drafted. (See \"Ningen-sengen\".)\n\nIn 1946, during the Occupation of Japan, the United States drafted Article 20 of the constitution of Japan (still in use), which mandates a separation of religious organizations from the state, as well as ensuring religious freedom: \"No religious organization shall receive any privileges from the State, nor exercise any political authority. No person shall be compelled to take part in any religious act, celebration, rite or practice. The State and its organs shall refrain from religious education or any other religious activity.\"\n\nThe New Komeito Party is a political party associated with the religion Sōka Gakkai, a minor religion in Japan.\n\nThe Constitution of Jordan provides for the freedom to practice the rights of one's religion and faith in accordance with the customs that are observed in the kingdom, unless they violate public order or morality. The state religion is Islam. The Government prohibits conversion from Islam and proselytizing to Muslims.\n\nMembers of unrecognized religious groups and converts from Islam face legal discrimination and bureaucratic difficulties in personal status cases. Converts from Islam additionally risk the loss of civil rights. Shari'a courts have the authority to prosecute proselytizers.\n\nRelations between Muslims and Christians generally are good; however, adherents of unrecognized religions and Muslims who convert to other faiths face societal discrimination. Prominent societal leaders have taken steps to promote religious freedom.\n\nKazakhstan has a long tradition of secularism and tolerance. In particular, Muslim, Russian Orthodox, Roman Catholic, and Jewish leaders all reported high levels of acceptance in society. The Constitution of Kazakhstan provides for freedom of religion, and the various religious communities worship largely without government interference. However, local officials attempt on occasion to limit the practice of religion by some nontraditional groups, and higher-level officials or courts occasionally intervene to correct such attempts.\n\n, the law on religion continues to impose mandatory registration requirements on missionaries and religious organizations. Most religious groups, including those of minority and nontraditional denominations, reported that the religion laws did not materially affect religious activities. In 2007, the Hare Krishna movement, a registered group, suffered the demolition of 25 homes as part of the Karasai local government's campaign to seize title to its land based on alleged violations of property laws.\n\nThe North Korean constitution guarantees freedom of belief; however, the US Department of State International Religious Freedom Report for 2011 claims that \"Genuine religious freedom does not exist.\"\n\nWhile many Christians in North Korea fled to the South during the Korean War, and former North Korean president Kim Il-sung criticized religion in his writings, it is unclear the extent to which religious persecution was enacted, as narratives about persecution faced by Christians are complicated by evidence of pro-Communist Christian communities that may have existed since at least the 1960s, and that many Christian defectors from North Korea were also of a high socioeconomic class and thus would have had other reasons to oppose and face persecution from the government. The Federation of Korean Christians and Korea Buddhist Federation are the official representatives of those faith groups in government, but it is unclear to what extent they are actually representative of religious practitioners in the country.\n\nAccording to the US Department of State, , the constitution provides for freedom of religion, and the government generally respected this right in practice.\n\nIn the Pew Research Center's  Government Restrictions Index 2015 index the country was categorized as having moderate levels of government restrictions on the freedom of religion, up from previous categorizations of low levels of government restrictions.\n\nSince the 1980s and the 1990s there have been acts of hostility committed by Protestants against Buddhists and followers of traditional religions in South Korea. This include the arson of temples, the beheading of statues of Buddha and bodhisattvas, and red Christian crosses painted on either statues or other Buddhist and other religions' properties. Some of these acts have even been promoted by churches' pastors.\n\nIn 2018, a mass protest broke out in support of freedom of religion and against the government's inaction on widespread programs of violent forced conversion carried out by Christian churches under the guide of the Christian Council of Korea (CCK), just after a woman named Ji-In Gu, one among approximately a thousand victims of the churches, was kidnapped and killed while being forced to convert. Before being killed, Ji-In Gu dedicated herself in exposing the conversion treatments, and for such reason she had become a target of the Christian churches.\n\nThe Constitution of Kyrgyzstan provides for the freedom of religion in Kyrgyzstan, and the government generally respects this right in practice. However, the Government restricts the activities of radical Islamic groups that it considered threats to stability and security and hampered or refused the registration of some Christian churches. The Constitution provides for the separation of religion and state, and it prohibits discrimination based on religion or religious beliefs. The Government does not officially support any religion; however, a May 6, 2006 decree recognized Islam (practiced by 88% of the population) and Russian Orthodoxy (practiced by 9.4% of the population) as traditional religious groups.\n\nThe State Agency for Religious Affairs (SARA), formerly called the State Commission on Religious Affairs (SCRA), is responsible for promoting religious tolerance, protecting freedom of conscience, and overseeing laws on religion. All religious organizations, including schools, must apply for approval of registration from SARA. The Muftiate (or Spiritual Administration of Muslims of Kyrgyzstan-SAMK) is the highest Islamic managing body in the country. The Muftiate oversees all Islamic entities, including institutes and madrassahs, mosques, and Islamic organizations.\n\nAlthough most religious groups and sects operated with little interference from the Government or each other, there have been several cases of societal abuse based on religious beliefs and practices. Muslims who attempt to convert to other religions face heavy censure and persecution. In one case, a mob upset at a Baptist pastor's conversions of Muslims to Christianity publicly beat the pastor and burned his Bibles and religious literature.\n\nThe Constitution of Laos provides for freedom of religion, some incidents of the persecution of Protestants have been reported. The Lao Front for National Construction (LFNC), a popular front organization for the Lao People's Revolutionary Party (LPRP), is responsible for the oversight of religious practice. The Prime Minister's Decree on Religious Practice (Decree 92) was the principal legal document defining rules for religious practice.\n\nLocal officialshave pressured minority Protestants to renounce their faith on threat of arrest or forceful eviction from their villages. Such cases occurred in Bolikhamsai, Houaphanh Province, and Luang Namtha provinces. Arrests and detentions of Protestants occurred in Luang Namtha, Oudomxay, Salavan, Savannakhet, and Vientiane provinces. Two Buddhist monks were arrested in Bolikhamsai Province for having been ordained without government authorization. In some areas, minority Protestants were forbidden from gathering to worship. In areas where Protestants were actively proselytizing, local officials sometimes subjected them to \"reeducation.\"\n\nConflicts between ethnic groups and movement among villages sometimes exacerbated religious tensions. The efforts of some Protestant congregations to establish churches independent of the Lao Evangelical Church (LEC) continued to cause strains within the Protestant community.\n\nThe Constitution of Lebanon provides for freedom of religion and the freedom to practice all religious rites provided that the public order is not disturbed. The Constitution declares equality of rights and duties for all citizens without discrimination or preference but establishes a balance of power among the major religious groups through a confessionalist system, largely codified by the National Pact. Family matters such as marriage, divorce and inheritance are still handled by the religious authorities representing a person's faith. Calls for civil marriage are unanimously rejected by the religious authorities but civil marriages conducted in another country are recognized by Lebanese civil authorities.\n\nThe National Pact is an agreement that specifies that specific government positions must go to members of specific religious groups, splitting power between the Maronite Christians, Greek Orthodox Christians, Sunni Muslims, Shia Muslims, and Druze, as well as stipulating some positions for the country's foreign policy. The first version of the pact, established in 1943, gave Christians a guaranteed majority in Parliament, reflecting the population of the country at the time, and specified that the highest office, the President of Lebanon, must be held by a Maronite Christian. Over the following decades, sectarian unrest would increase due to dissatisfaction with the greater power given to the Christian population and the refusal of the government to take another census that would provide the basis for a renegotiation of the National Pact eventually led to the Lebanese Civil War in 1975. The National Pact was renegotiated as part of the Taif Agreement to end the civil war, with the new conditions guaranteeing parliamentary parity between Muslim and Christian populations and reducing the power of the position of the Maronite President of Lebanon relative to the Sunni Prime Minister of Lebanon.\n\nThe status of religious freedom in Malaysia is a controversial issue. Islam is the official state religion and the Constitution of Malaysia provides for limited freedom of religion, notably placing control upon proselytization of religions other than Islam to Muslims. Non-Muslims who wish to marry Muslims and have their marriage recognized by the government must convert to Islam. However, questions including whether Malays can convert from Islam and whether Malaysia is an Islamic state or secular state remains unresolved. For the most part the multiple religions within Malaysia interact peacefully and exhibit mutual respect. This is evident by the continued peaceful co-existence of cultures and ethnic groups, although sporadic incidences of violence against Hindu temples, Muslim prayer halls, and Christian churches have occurred as recently as 2010.\n\nRestrictions on religious freedom are also in place for Muslims who belong to denominations of Islam other than Sunni Islam, such as Shia Muslims and Ahmaddiya Muslims.\n\nIn 2010, a mufti in Penang decreed a \"fatwa\" that would forbid non-Muslims to use of 40 words related to Muslim religious practice. Under the Penang Islamic Religious Administration Enactment of 2004, a mufti in Penang state could propose \"fatwa\" that would be enforceable by law. The list included words such as \"\"Allah\", \"Imam\", \"Sheikh\", and \"Fatwa\"\", and purported to also make illegal the use of translations of these words into other languages. This decree caused uproar, particularly in the Sikh community, as Sikh religious texts use the term \"Allah\", with members of the community calling the law unconstitutional. The ban was overturned in 2014, as Penang lawmakers decreed that the Penang Islamic Religious Administration Enactment law only gave the Mufti permission to pass \"fatwas\" for the Muslim community, and that these bans were not enforceable on non-Muslim individuals.\n\nThe Constitution of Mongolia provides for freedom of religion, and the Mongolian Government generally respects this right in practice; however, the law somewhat limits proselytism, and some religious groups have faced bureaucratic harassment or been denied registration. There have been few reports of societal abuses or discrimination based on religious belief or practice.\n\nEvery year since 1999 the U.S. State Department has designated Myanmar as a country of particular concern with regard to religious freedom. Muslims, and particularly Muslims of the Rohingya ethnic group, face discrimination at the hands of the Buddhist majority, often with governmental indifference or even active encouragement.\n\nThe Rohingya people have been denied Burmese citizenship since the Burmese nationality law (1982 Citizenship Act) was enacted. The Government of Myanmar claims that the Rohingya are illegal immigrants who arrived during the British colonial era, and were originally Bengalis. The Rohingya that are allowed to stay in Myanmar are considered 'resident foreigners' and not citizens. They are not allowed to travel without official permission and were previously required to sign a commitment not to have more than two children, though the law was not strictly enforced. Many Rohingya children cannot have their birth registered, thus rendering them stateless from the moment they are born. In 1995, the Government of Myanmar responded to UNHCR's pressure by issuing basic identification cards, which does not mention the bearer's place of birth, to the Rohingya. Without proper identification and documents, the Rohingya people are officially stateless with no state protection and their movements are severely restricted. As a result, they are forced to live in squatter camps and slums.\n\nStarting in late 2016, the Myanmar military forces and extremist Buddhists began a major crackdown on the Rohingya Muslims in the country's western region of Rakhine State. The crackdown was in response to attacks on border police camps by unidentified insurgents, and has resulted in wide-scale human rights violations at the hands of security forces, including extrajudicial killings, gang rapes, arsons, and other brutalities. Since 2016, the military and the local Buddhists have killed at least 10,000 Rohingya people, burned down and destroyed 354 Rohingya villages in Rakhine state, and looted many Rohingya houses. The United Nations has described the persecution as \"a textbook example of ethnic cleansing\". In late September 2017, a seven-member panel of the Permanent Peoples' Tribunal found the Myanmar military and the Myanmar authority guilty of the crime of genocide against the Rohingya and the Kachin minority groups. The Myanmar leader and State Counsellor Aung San Suu Kyi was criticized for her silence over the issue and for supporting the military actions. Subsequently, in November 2017, the governments of Bangladesh and Myanmar signed a deal to facilitate the return of Rohingya refugees to their native Rakhine state within two months, drawing a mixed response from international onlookers.\n\nAccording to the United Nations reports, as of January 2018, nearly 690,000 Rohingya people had fled or had been driven out of Rakhine state who then took shelter in the neighboring Bangladesh as refugees.\n\nNepal has been a secular state since the end of the Nepalese Civil War in 2006, and the Constitution of Nepal adopted in 2015 guarantees religious freedom to all people in Nepal. The Constitution also defines Nepal as a secular state that is neutral toward the religions present in the country. The Constitution also bans actions taken to convert people from one religion to another, as well as acts that disturb the religion of other people.\n\nThere have been sporadic incidents of violence against the country's Christian minority. In 2009 and 2015, Christian churches were bombed by anti-government Hindu nationalist groups such as the Nepal Defence Army.\n\nPakistan's penal code includes provisions that forbid blasphemy against any religion recognized by the government of Pakistan. Punishments are more severe for blasphemy against Islam: while acts insulting others' religion can carry a penalty of up to 10 years in prison and a fine, desecration of the Quran can carry a life sentence and insulting or otherwise defiling the name of Muhammad can carry a death sentence. The death sentence for blasphemy has never been implemented, however, 51 people charged under the blasphemy laws have been murdered by vigilantes before their trials could be completed.\n\nThe Pakistan government does not formally ban the public practice of the Ahmadi Muslim sect, but its practice is restricted severely by law. A 1974 constitutional amendment declared Ahmadis to be a non-Muslim minority because, according to the Government, they do not accept Muhammad as the last prophet of Islam. However, Ahmadis consider themselves to be Muslims and observe Islamic practices. In 1984, under Ordinance XX the government added Section 298(c) into the Penal Code, prohibiting Ahmadis from calling themselves Muslim or posing as Muslims; from referring to their faith as Islam; from preaching or propagating their faith; from inviting others to accept the Ahmadi faith; and from insulting the religious feelings of Muslims.\n\nThe 1987 Constitution of the Philippines mandates a separation of church and state, significantly limiting the Catholic Church's influence in the country's politics.\n\nThe Moro people are a Muslim ethnoreligious minority in the Philippines that have historically fought insurgencies against the government of the Philippines (as well as against previous occupying powers, such as Spain, the United States, and Japan). They have faced discrimination from the country's Christian majority in the 21st century.\n\nArticle 13 of the constitution of the Republic of China provides that the people shall have freedom of religious belief.\n\nThe Kingdom of Saudi Arabia is an Islamic theocratic absolute monarchy in which Islam is the official religion. Religious status (defined as \"Muslim\" or \"Non-Muslim\") is identified on government-issued identity cards, and non-Muslims face many restrictions, including bans on non-Muslim religious texts and the dismissal of their testimony in court. Officially, the government supports the rights of non-Muslims to practice their faith in private, but non-Muslim organizations claim that there is no clear definition of what constitutes public or private, and that this leaves them at risk for punishment, which can include lashes and deportation. The government of Saudi Arabia does not allow non-Muslim clergy to enter the country for the purpose of conducting services, which further restricts practice.\n\nMembers of the Shi’a minority are the subjects of officially sanctioned political and economic discrimination, although the faith is not entirely banned. Shi'a Muslims are barred from employment in the government, military, and oil industries. Ahmadiyya Muslims are officially barred from the country, although many Saudi residents and citizens practice the religion privately.\n\nIt is illegal for Muslims to convert or renounce their religion, which is nominally punishable by death. Death sentences have been mandated as recently as 2015, although the most recent execution performed in Saudi Arabia solely for apostasy charges was conducted in 1994. In 2014, the government of Saudi Arabia passed new regulations against terrorism that defined \"calling for atheist thought in any form, or calling into question the fundamentals of the Islamic religion on which [Saudi Arabia] is based\" as a form of terrorism.\n\nThe Saudi Mutaween (Arabic: مطوعين), or Committee for the Propagation of Virtue and the Prevention of Vice (i.e., the religious police) enforces an interpretation of Muslim religious law in public, employing both armed and unarmed officers.\n\nIslamic religious education is mandatory in public schools at all levels. All public school children receive religious instruction that conforms with the official version of Islam. Non-Muslim students in private schools are not required to study Islam. Private religious schools are permitted for non-Muslims or for Muslims adhering to unofficial interpretations of Islam.\n\nThe constitution provides for freedom of religion; however, other laws and policies restricted this right in some circumstances.\n\nIn 1972 the Singapore government de-registered and banned the activities of Jehovah's Witnesses in Singapore on the grounds that its members refuse to perform military service (which is obligatory for all male citizens), salute the flag, or swear oaths of allegiance to the state. Singapore has banned all written materials published by the International Bible Students Association and the Watchtower Bible and Tract Society, both publishing arms of the Jehovah's Witnesses. A person who possesses a prohibited publication can be fined up to $1500 (Singapore Dollars $2,000) and jailed up to 12 months for a first conviction.\n\nThe Constitution of Sri Lanka provides for the freedom of practice of all religions, while reserving a higher status for Buddhism. At times, local police and government officials appeared to be acting in concert with Buddhist nationalist organizations. In addition, in NGOs have alleged that government officials provided assistance, or at least tacitly supported the actions of societal groups targeting religious minorities.\n\nMatters related to family law, e.g., divorce, child custody and inheritance are adjudicated under customary law of the applicable ethnic or religious group. For example, the minimum age of marriage for women is 18 years, except in the case of Muslims, who continued to follow their customary religious practices of girls attaining marrying age with the onset of puberty and men when they are financially capable of supporting a family.\n\nDuring the Sri Lankan Civil War, conflict between Tamil separatists and the government of Sri Lanka at times resulted in violence against temples and other religious targets. However, the primary causes of the conflict were not religious.\n\nThe constitution of the Syrian Arab Republic guarantees freedom of religion. Syria has had two constitutions: one passed in 1973, and one in 2012 through a referendum. Opposition groups rejected the referendum; claiming that the vote was rigged. Political instability caused by the Syrian Civil War has deepened religious sectarianism within the country, as well as creating regions in the country where the official government does not have the ability to enforce its laws.\n\nSyria has come under international condemnation over their alleged \"anti-Semitic\" state media, and for alleged \"sectarianism towards Sunni Muslims\". This is a claim that Damascus denies. While secular, Syria does mandate that all students go through religious education of the religion that their parents are/were.\n\nThe government enforces several measures against what it considers to be Islamic fundamentalism. The Muslim Brotherhood, a political Sunni Muslim organization, is banned in Syria, alongside other Muslim sects that the government considers to be Salafi or Islamist. Those accused of membership in any such organization can be sentenced to long prison terms. In 2016, the Syrian government banned the use of the niqab in universities. \n\nJehovah's Witnesses in Syria face persecution, as the government banned their religion in 1964 for being a \"Zionist organization\".\n\nThe charter of the Democratic Federation of Northern Syria (also known as Rojava) guarantees the freedom of religion to people living within its territory. The government of this region employs various measures to ensure the representation of various ethnic and religious groups in the government, using a system that has been compared to Lebanon's confessionalist system. However, there have been numerous claims made by refugees that YPG units affiliated with the Democratic Federation have forcibly displaced Sunni Arabs from their homes, in addition to destroying businesses and crops. These claims have been denied by Syrian Kurdish authorities.\n\nBattalions affiliated with the Free Syrian Army have been accused of taking hostages and murdering members of religious minorities in territory held by their soldiers.\n\nJihadist groups, such as the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant and Jabhat Al-Nusra have enforced very strict interpretations of Sunni religious law in their territory, executing civilians for blasphemy, adultery, and other charges. Watchdog organizations have documented extensive persecution of Yazidi people, particularly women, who have been routinely forced into sexual slavery by the Islamic State in what Human Rights Watch described as an \"organized system of rape and sexual assault\".\n\nFreedom of religion in Tajikistan is provided for in Tajikistan's constitution. The Tajikistan government, enforces a policy of active secularism.\n\nTajikistan is unique for barring minors from attending public religious ceremonies, with the exception of funerals (where they must be accompanied by an adult guardian). Minors are allowed to practice religion in private. Hanafi mosques bar women from attending services, a policy decreed by a religious council with support from the government.\n\nTajikistan's policies reflect a concern about Islamic extremism, a concern shared by much of the general population. The government actively monitors the activities of religious institutions to keep them from becoming overtly political. A Tajikistan Ministry of Education policy prohibited girls from wearing the hijab at public schools.\n\nThe Constitution of Turkey establishes the country as a secular state and provides for freedom of belief and worship and the private dissemination of religious ideas. However, other constitutional provisions for the integrity of the secular state restrict these rights. The constitution prohibits discrimination on religious grounds. Article 219 of the penal code prohibits imams, priests, rabbis and other religious leaders from \"reproaching or vilifying\" the government or the laws of the state while performing their duties, punishable by several months in prison.\n\nReligious affiliation is listed on national identity cards, despite Article 24 of the 1982 constitution which forbids the compulsory disclosure of religious affiliation. Members of some religious groups, such as the Bahá'í, are unable to state their religious affiliation on their cards because it is not included among the option, and thus must report their religion as \"unknown\" or \"other\".\n\nThe Turkish government oversees Muslim religious facilities and education through its Directorate of Religious Affairs, under the authority of the Prime Minister. The directorate regulates the operation of the country's 77,777 registered mosques and employs local and provincial imams (who are civil servants). Sunni imams are appointed and paid by the state. Historically, Turkey's Alevi Muslim minority has been discriminated against within the country. However, since the 2000s, various measures granting Alevis more equal recognition as a religious group have been passed at the local and national levels of government. Other Muslim minorities, such as Shia Muslims, largely do not face government interference in their religious practice, but also receive no support from the state.\n\nSince the 2000s Turkish Armed Forces have dismissed several members for alleged Islamic fundamentalism.\n\nIn the 1970s, the Turkish High Court of Appeals issued a ruling allowing for the expropriation of properties acquired after 1936 from religious minorities. Later rulings in the 2000s have restored some of this property, and generally allow minorities to acquire new properties. However, the government has continued to apply an article allowing it to expropriate properties in areas where the local non-Muslim population drops significantly or where the foundation is deemed to no longer perform the function for which it was created. There is no specific minimum threshold for such a population drop, which is left to the discretion of the GDF. This is problematic for small populations (such as the Greek Orthodox community), since they maintain more properties than the local community needs; many are historic or significant to the Orthodox world.\n\nGreek Orthodox, Armenian Orthodox and Jewish religious groups may operate schools under the supervision of the Education Ministry. The curricula of the schools include information unique to the cultures of the groups. The Ministry reportedly verifies if the child's father or mother is from that minority community before the child may enroll. Other non-Muslim minorities do not have schools of their own.\n\nChurches operating in Turkey generally face administrative challenges to employ foreign church personnel, apart from the Catholic Church and congregations linked to the diplomatic community. These administrative challenges, restrictions on training religious leaders and difficulty obtaining visas have led to a decrease in the Christian communities. Jehovah's Witnesses have faced imprisonment and harassment, largely connected to their religiously grounded conscientious objection to obligatory military service.\n\nThe Constitution of Turkmenistan provides for freedom of religion and does not establish a state religion. However, the Government imposes legal restrictions on all forms of religious expression. All religious groups must register in order to gain legal status; unregistered religious activity is illegal and may be punished by administrative fines. While the 2003 law on religion and subsequent 2004 amendments had effectively restricted registration to only the two largest groups, Sunni Muslim and Russian Orthodox, and criminalized unregistered religious activity, presidential decrees issued in 2004 dramatically reduced the numerical thresholds for registration and abolished criminal penalties for unregistered religious activity; civil penalties remain. As a result, nine minority religious groups were able to register, and the Turkmenistan government has permitted some other groups to meet quietly with reduced scrutiny.\n\nEthnic Turkmen identity is linked to Islam. Ethnic Turkmen who choose to convert to other religious groups, especially the lesser-known Protestant groups, are viewed with suspicion and sometimes ostracized, but Turkmenistan society historically has been tolerant and inclusive of different religious beliefs.\n\nThe Constitution of Uzbekistan provides for freedom of religion and for the principle of separation of church and state. However, the government restricts these rights in practice. The government permits the operation of what it considers mainstream religious groups, including approved Muslim groups, Jewish groups, the Russian Orthodox Church, and various other Christian denominations, such as Roman Catholics, Lutherans, and Baptists. Uzbek society generally tolerates Christian churches as long as they do not attempt to win converts among ethnic Uzbeks. The law prohibits or severely restricts activities such as proselytizing, importing and disseminating religious literature, and offering private religious instruction.\n\nA number of minority religious groups, including congregations of some Christian denominations, operate without registration because they have not satisfied the strict requirements set by the law. As in previous periods, Protestant groups with ethnic Uzbek members reported operating in a climate of harassment and fear. The government has been known to arrest and sentence Protestant pastors, and to otherwise raid and harass some unregistered groups, detaining and fining their leaders and members. \n\nThe government works against unauthorized Islamic groups suspected of extremist sentiments or activities, arresting numerous alleged members of these groups and sentencing them to lengthy jail terms. Many of these were suspected members of Hizb ut-Tahrir, a banned extremist Islamic political movement, the banned Islamic group Akromiya (Akromiylar), or unspecified Wahhabi groups. The government generally does not interfere with worshippers attending sanctioned mosques and granted approvals for new Islamic print, audio, and video materials. A small number of \"underground\" mosques operated under the close scrutiny of religious authorities and the security service.\n\nReligious groups enjoyed generally tolerant relations; however, neighbors, family, and employers often continued to pressure ethnic Uzbek Christians, especially recent converts and residents of smaller communities. There were several reports of sermons against missionaries and persons who converted from Islam.\n\nThe Constitution formally allows religious freedom. Every citizen is declared to be allowed to freely follow no, one, or more religions, practice his or her religion without violating the law, be treated equally regardless of his or her religion, be protected from being violated his or her religious freedom, but is prohibited to use religion to violate the law.\n\nAll religious groups and most clergy must join a party controlled supervisory body, religions must obtain permission to build or repair houses of worship, run schools, engage in charity or ordain or transfer clergy, and some clergy remain in prison or under serious state repression.\n\nAustria guarantees freedom of religion through various constitutional provisions and through membership in\nvarious international agreements. In Austria, these instruments are deemed to allow any religious group to worship\nfreely in public and in private, to proselytize, and to prohibit discrimination against individuals because of\ntheir religious allegiances or beliefs. However, part of the Austrian constitutional framework is a system of\ncooperation between the government and recognized religious communities. The latter are granted preferential\nstatus by being entitled to benefits such as a tax-exempt status and public funding of religious education.\n\nCurrently, Austria recognizes twelve religions. In addition to various Christian denominations including Jehovah's Witnesses, these include Judaism, Buddhism, and Islam. To date, Austria has not granted full recognition to several newer and allegedly controversial religions such as the Church of Scientology. Some newer religious groups, however, have applied under the 1998 Act and thereby attained the preliminary status of communities of believers.\n\nIn October 2017, Austria passed a law banning the covering of one's face in public, which has been criticized as Islamophobic and a \"criminalization of Muslim women\" by various experts due to its effectively banning the usage of burqas and other similar clothing. There have been reports of antisemitism, and fascist sympathizers with connections to the Nazi Germany have held elected office as recently as 2008.\n\nThe Constitution of Belarus provides for freedom of religion. However, the government restricts religious freedom in accordance with the provisions of a 2002 law on religion and a 2003 concordat with the Belarusian Orthodox Church (BOC), a branch of the Russian Orthodox Church (ROC) and the only officially recognized Orthodox denomination. Although there is no state religion, the concordat grants the BOC privileged status.\n\nProtestants in particular attracted negative attention, presumably for their perceived links with the United States. Numerous anti-Semitic acts and attacks on religious monuments, buildings, and cemeteries have occurred with little discernible response from the government. Authorities kept many religious communities waiting as long as several years for decisions about property registration or restitution. Authorities also harassed and fined members of certain religious groups, especially those that the authorities appeared to regard as bearers of foreign cultural influence or as having a political agenda. Foreign missionaries, clergy, and humanitarian workers affiliated with churches faced many government-imposed obstacles, including deportation and visa refusal or cancellation.\n\nBelarus is the only country in Europe to have jailed a newspaper editor for publishing the Danish cartoons of the Islamic Prophet Muhammad. On January 18, 2008, Alexander Sdvizhkov was jailed for three years for 'incitement of religious hatred'.\n\nThe constitution of Bulgaria provides for freedom of religion, and other laws and policies contributed to the generally free practice of religion. However, the constitution designates Eastern Orthodox Christianity as the \"traditional\" religion, exempting it from having to register in court as required for all other religious groups.\n\nThe government generally respected the religious freedom of registered religious groups. There were some concerns that the government did not proactively intervene to prevent societal abuses. There also were continuing reports of intolerance from police and local authorities during the reporting period.\n\nThere were continued reports of societal abuses or discrimination based on religious affiliation, belief, or practice. Discrimination, harassment, and general public intolerance of some religious groups remained an intermittent problem. There was an increasing number of anti-Semitic incidents and vandalism against mosques.\n\nThe Constitution of Croatia provides for freedom of religion, and the Government generally respects these rights in practice. \n\nThe Catholic Church in Croatia receives state financial support and other benefits established in concordats between the Government and the Vatican. The concordats and other government agreements with non-Catholic religious communities allow state financing for some salaries and pensions for religious officials through government-managed pension and health funds.\n\nIsolated incidences of religious intolerance have occurred, particularly against the Serbian Orthodox minority in the country. Serbian Orthodox individuals who do not live in majority-Orthodox communities have reported that they hide their religion to avoid being singled out.\n\nArticles 15 and 16 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms (part of the constitutional system of the Czech Republic) include following statements: \"The freedom of thought, conscience, and religious conviction is guaranteed. Everyone has the right to change her religion or faith or to have no religious conviction.\" and \"Everyone has the right freely to manifest her religion or faith, either alone or in community with others, in private or public, through worship, teaching, practice, or observance.\"\n\nDenmark has freedom of worship, however the Church of Denmark does hold certain privileges. According to the Constitution of Denmark, the Evangelical Lutheran Church in Denmark is the state church of Denmark and receives some subsidies from the government. The constitution also mandates that the Danish monarch must be a member of the state church.\n\nAnti-Muslim organizations such as Pegida have organized demonstrations in Denmark in the 21st century, at times met by counter-protests. The right-wing populist Danish People's Party has at times self-described as an anti-Muslim party.\n\nArticle 40 The Constitution of the Republic of Estonia reads: \"Everyone has freedom of conscience, religion and thought. Everyone may freely belong to churches and religious societies. There is no state church. Everyone has the freedom to exercise his or her religion, both alone and in community with others, in public or in private, unless this is detrimental to public order, health or morals.\"\n\nAs the national churches of Finland, the Evangelical Lutheran Church of Finland and the Finnish Orthodox Church have a status protected by law. The special legal position of the Evangelical Lutheran Church of Finland is also codified in the constitution of Finland. Both churches have the right to levy an income tax on their members and every Finnish company as a part of Corporation Tax. The tax is collected by the state. The administration of the national churches is regulated by their respective church laws, which are drafted by the churches and enacted or rejected by the parliament. State universities, religiously non-aligned in themselves, provide the theological education that is required to be ordained as clergy of the national churches. The general direction has been to restrict and remove the privileges of the national churches, and as of 2004, in most other official business (such as officiating marriages) any registered religious community has a status comparable to that of the national churches.\n\nTeaching Christianity in schools continued after they became a part of municipal jurisdiction in 1866. Students, who were not members of either national church, gained the lawful right to be freed from such teaching with §8 of the Act of Religious Freedom of 1922 (, ). The legal guardian of the pupil had to apply for the pupil to be freed. Requirements for teacher competency for the teaching of religion and the corresponding subject for freed students \"The history of religions and ethics\" (, ) have also varied.\n\nSince 2003, world view related teaching is compulsory for all students in basic education (primary and secondary school). Each primary and secondary school municipality must arrange teaching in the religion that the majority of the students in the municipality are members of. Also, for every group of at least three students who belong to some other organized religion, teaching in their own religion must be arranged. For a group of at least three students within the municipality who do not belong to any organized religion, teaching in the subject \"ethics\" (, ), must be arranged. If there are too few students for a teaching group for the student's own religion to be arranged, the student (or as most such students are minors, their parents) can choose between joining the teaching group for the majority religion, requesting ethics education or arranging the teaching from their own religious organization. A teaching group for a minority religion or for ethics can be arranged for several schools together.\n\nCurrent teacher education in Finland gives primary and secondary school teachers a basic competence to teach the national churches' religion, major world religions and ethics as school subjects. However, it is also noted that a teacher should not have to teach a particular religion, if that offends her or his conscience, and any conflicts between students' right to education and teachers' religious freedom should be solved on a case-by-case basis.\n\nThe Constitution of France provides for the free exercise of religious worship. However, according to Pew Research Center in 2017, France has a high level of government restrictions on religion. \n\nSince 1905, France has had a law requiring separation of church and state, prohibiting the state from recognizing or funding any religion. The 1905 law on secularity was highly controversial at the time, but today is held as a founding document of French secularism or \"laïcité\". Some French politicians and communities have more recently questioned the law, arguing that, despite its explicit stance for state secularism, it \"de facto\" favors traditional French religions, in particular the Catholic Church, at the expense of more recently established religions, such as Islam. The law provides for the transfer to the state of religious property built before 1905, with the local governments being expected to maintain the buildings at taxpayer's expense. Despite being state property, these buildings are available for religious use, provided that their use has been historically continuous. As most Roman Catholic churches in the country were built well before the enactment of the 1905, they are supported by the government. With the exception of the historically anomalous Alsace-Lorraine, followers of Islam and other religions more recently implanted in France instead have to build and maintain religious facilities at their own expense. In 2016, President Hollande proposed a temporary ban on foreign funding for mosques and shut down at least 20 mosques found to be \"preaching radical Islamic ideology\".\n\nIn 2004, France passed a law banning the use of \"conspicuous\" religious symbols in public schools, including the hijab. Many Muslims complained that the law infringed on their freedom of religion. Similarly the Muslim Public Affairs Council called the ban \"a major affront to freedom of religion\", noting that many Muslims believe it is mandated by religious texts. Human Rights Watch and The United States Commission on International Religious Freedom expressed concern and disapproval at the law's passing.\n\nOn 14 September 2010, an act of parliament was passed resulting in the ban on the wearing of face-covering headgear, including masks, helmets, balaclava, niqābs and other veils covering the face in public places, except under specified circumstances. The ban also applies to the burqa, a full-body covering, if it covers the face.\n\nThe Constitution of Georgia provides for freedom of religion, and the government generally respects this right in practice. However, some societal abuses of the freedom of religion have occurred. Georgia \"de facto\" lost control of the regions of Abkhazia and South Ossetia in 1993 and 1992 respectively, and does not exert control of these regions despite claiming them \"de jure\". \n\nMinority religious groups are viewed by some Georgians as a threat to Georgian national identity, cultural values, and the Georgian Orthodox Church. Between 1999 and 2002, followers of a defrocked former Georgian Orthodox priest, Basil Mkalavishvili, attacked congregations of Jehovah's Witnesses and Baptists in Tbilisi. During 2012, some congregations of Muslims and Jehovah's Witnesses reported physical confrontations and verbal threats, some involving local Georgian Orthodox priests and their parishioners. In 2011, eight members of Orthodox fundamentalist groups were sentenced to prison for breaking into a television station and assaulting participants on a talk show on religious freedom; however, after the October 2012 parliamentary election and the transition to a new government, these individuals were reclassified as \"prisoners of conscience\" and were freed as part of a general amnesty. In November 2012, Muslims in a western Georgian community were prevented from gathering for prayer by Orthodox priests and townspeople; the local priest said that the local residents \"would not allow any minarets and mass prayers in this village\", and the police did not intervene.\n\nThe Abkhazian Orthodox Church operates outside the official Eastern Orthodox ecclesiastical hierarchy, as all Eastern Orthodox churches recognise Abkhazia as belonging to the jurisdiction of the Georgian Orthodox church. The Georgian Orthodox Church lost effective control over the \"Sukhumi-Abkhazian eparchy\" following the 1992-1993 war in Abkhazia, when ethnically Georgian priests had to flee Abkhazia. It maintains its structures in exile, where the current head is Archbishop Daniel. The Abkhazian Orthodox Church came into existence when the ethnically Abkhaz branch of the Sukhumi-Abkhazian Eparchy declared on 15 September 2009 that it no longer considered itself part of the Georgian Orthodox Church and that it was re-establishing the Catholicate of Abkhazia disbanded in 1795.\n\nJehovah's Witnesses are officially banned, but Jehovah's Witnesses communities in some parts of Abkhazia have been able to establish working relationships with local authorities and have thereby been able to hold some meetings.\n\nThe Georgian Orthodox Church has experienced interference from the \"de facto\" government of South Ossetia, which has banned Orthodox services in several ethnic Georgian villages. Jehovah's Witnesses in \"South Ossetia\" are not officially recognized and have been harassed.\n\nThe government generally respects religious freedom in practice.\n\nToday, church and state are \"separate,\" but there is cooperation in many fields, most importantly in the social sector. Churches and religious communities, if they are large, stable and loyal to the constitution, can get special status from the state as a \"corporation under public law\" which allows the churches to levy taxes called Kirchensteuer (literally church tax) on their members. This revenue is collected by the state for a cost-covering fee. Payment of this tax is not voluntary for adherents of the respective religion who are otherwise obligated to pay taxes. Since one's religion is officially recorded, exemption from this tax is possible only through leaving one's religion. Being a member of one's own religious tradition in Germany therefore requires monetary payment to the respective ecclesiastical body (and, indirectly, a small portion to the state).\n\nReligious instruction (for members of the respective religions) is an ordinary subject in public schools (in most states). It is organized by the state, but also under the supervision of the respective religious community. Teachers are educated at public universities, in departments that are nevertheless affiliated with a specific church (Protestant or Catholic) or with confessional Islam. Parents, or students 14 years old and above, can decide not to take those religion classes, but most federal states require classes in \"ethics\" or \"philosophy\" as replacements. A small but significant number of religious schools, which receive the majority of their funding (but never all of it) from the state, exist in most parts of the country; however nobody can be compelled to attend them. There was considerable public controversy when the Federal Constitutional Court declared a Bavarian law requiring a crucifix in every classroom to be unconstitutional in 1997; Bavaria replaced it with a law still demanding the same, unless parents file a formal protest with the state.\n\nThere have been reports of societal abuses based on religious affiliation, belief, or practice. Right-wing groups and Muslim youth from immigrant backgrounds committed politically motivated crimes against some minority religious groups. Some Jewish cemeteries were desecrated, and individuals from Muslim communities sometimes suffered societal discrimination. The Roman Catholic and Protestant churches use \"sect commissioners\" to warn the public of alleged dangers from some minority religious groups such as the Unification Church, Scientologists, Universelles Leben (Universal Life), and Transcendental Meditation practitioners. Scientologists continued to find that \"sect filters\" were used to discriminate against them in education, employment, and political party membership. A sect filter is defined as a written agreement a new employee has to sign stating that he or she has no contact with Scientology, has not participated in its training courses, and rejects its doctrines. Prominent societal leaders, however, took positive steps to promote religious freedom and tolerance. Many members of civil society, such as members of the Central Council of Muslims in Germany, members of the Turkish community, and members of prominent Jewish organizations, initiated discussions regarding Muslim integration and expressed commitment to that process.\n\nThe Constitution of Greece establishes the Church of Greece as the \"dominant\" religion of Greece. Article 13 of the Constitution of Greece further guarantees the freedom of religion for all Greeks, although it also outlaws proselytism.\n\nReligious instruction is provided in Greek public schools, and students are taught the tenets of the Christian Orthodox faith (or, respectively, Islam, for the Muslim religious minority in Thrace). Typically, one hour per week (out of the 32-hour program of studies) is devoted to these lessons. However, students and parents can choose to opt out of religious instruction lessons by providing a written note to their school stating they desire to do so. The Lord's Prayer or another prayer is typically recited before lessons, once a day, but school prayer attendance is not mandatory.\n\nAn estimated 98 percent of the population identifies itself as Greek Orthodox. The 1923 Treaty of Lausanne created an officially recognized \"Muslim minority,\" which consists of an estimated 140,000 to 150,000 individuals (approximately 1.3 percent of the Greek population) residing in Thrace. The government supports the Orthodox Church financially by paying for clergy salaries, church maintenance, and exempting the Church from taxes on its property. Orthodox religious instruction in primary and secondary schools, at government expense, is mandatory for all students, although non-Orthodox students may exempt themselves by turning in a statement requesting exemption. However, public schools offer no alternative activity or non-Orthodox religious instruction for these children. Many private schools offer alternative religious instruction to their students.\n\n\"Das Leben des Jesus\" (The Life of Jesus), a satire which portrays Jesus as an incense-addicted hippy, was banned in Greece in 2005 under a blasphemy statute, while its writer, Gerhard Haderer, received a suspended six-month jail sentence. However, both the ban and sentence were repealed on appeal and the book has circulated freely since.\n\nIn 2006 an Athens court decreed the official recognition of the ancient Greek pantheon as a \"known religion\".\n\nFreedom of religion in Iceland is guaranteed by the 64th article of the Constitution of Iceland. However at the same time the 62nd article states that the Evangelical Lutheran Church shall be the national church (þjóðkirkja) and the national curriculum places emphasis on Christian studies.\n\nA religion tax is collected by the Þjóðkirkja. Those that belong to other religious groups do not pay that tax, but those who are registered as non-religious (not belonging to any religious group) do pay the tax which used to be earmarked for the University of Iceland but now goes into the tax budget.\n\nThe constitution of the Republic of Ireland, as well as its laws and policies generally protect religious freedom, and the Irish government generally respects religious freedom in its actions. There is no state religion. The constitution mandates that \"the State shall not … make any discrimination on the ground of religious belief, profession or status,\" and it prohibits favoring one religious group over another. Discrimination on the grounds of religion or belief is likewise prohibited. The law does not restrict the teaching or practice of any faith. Religious groups are not required to register with the government.\n\nThe government allows religious instruction in public schools, and primary and secondary schools are religiously based. In 2012 a convention met to consider the blasphemy prohibition law, and voted to change it to make it illegal to incite religious hatred. Certain state agencies, such as the Equality Authority and the Garda Racial and Intercultural Office (GRIO), are chartered with enforcing equality legislation and working on behalf of minority religious groups. GRIO created an official training program for the Garda Síochána liaison officers who then regularly engage with immigrant communities and minority religious groups.\n\nIn Italy there is not a state religion, however the Catholic Church enjoys a special status due to its historical political authority and its sovereign status, both of which other religions do not have. The Constitution recognises the Lateran treaty of 1929, later modified in 1984, which gave this special status to the Catholic Church, but also recognizes the separation of church and state, as stated in Article 7:\n\nThe State and the Catholic Church are independent and sovereign, each within its own sphere. Their relations are regulated by the Lateran pacts. Amendments to such Pacts which are accepted by both parties shall not require the procedure of constitutional amendments.\n\nFreedom of religion is enshrined in Article 8, which also gives the possibility to make arrangements with the State to other religions, not only Catholicism:All religious denominations are equally free before the law. Denominations other than Catholicism have the right to self-organisation according to their own statutes, provided these do not conflict with Italian law. Their relations with the State are regulated by law, based on agreements with their respective representatives.Under the Eight per thousand system, Italian taxpayers can choose to whom devolve a compulsory 8‰ = 0.8% (eight per thousand) from their annual income tax return between an organised religion recognised by Italy or, alternatively, to a welfare program run by the government.\n\nIn the Netherlands, freedom of religion found its roots in the religious wars that took place in the 16th century and which led to the first limited form of constitutional recognition of the freedom of religion in 1579. With the last major revision of the Constitution in 1983 with respect to freedom of religion, the secularization between state and church that started in the 19th century was completed. In Article 6, all discrimination based on religion or philosophy of life is forbidden. With the insertion of the term \"philosophy of life,\" the equal treatment of religious and non-religious philosophies of life is guaranteed in conformity with the international commitments of the Netherlands. This article briefly reviews the legal and constitutional background of the Netherlands and the constitutional provisions relevant to freedom of religion. It then lists the most important international agreements and laws affecting religious organizations.\n\nThere have been some incidents of discrimination and hostility to Muslims in the Netherlands in the 21st century. The Party for Freedom, and its leader Geert Wilders, advocate for policies that critics say discriminate against Muslims including banning the Qur'an, taxing the hijab, shutting down all mosques in the Netherlands, and disallowing further immigration of Muslims to the country. After the 2017 Dutch election, the party had 20 seats in the Dutch House of Representatives, comprising 13.1% of the seats in the House.\n\nAccording to research by Ineke van der Valk, an author and researcher at the University of Amsterdam, a third of mosques in the Netherlands have experienced at least one incident of vandalism, threatening letters, attempted arson, or other aggressive actions in the past 10 years. In February 2016, five men threw two Molotov cocktails at a mosque. Some 30 people, including children, were inside the mosque at the time but no one was injured. Dutch courts called it a \"terrorist act.\" In December of the same year, a building linked to the Association of Islamic Communities was set on fire. Police suspected it was a hate crime. \n\nPoland's Constitution guarantees the freedom of religion to everyone. It also allows for national and ethnic minorities to have the right to establish educational and cultural institutions, institutions designed to protect religious identity, as well as to participate in the resolution of matters connected with their cultural identity.\n\nIn July 2013, following animal rights activist campaigns and the European Council directive of September 24, 2009, the Polish government passed an animal protection law that had the effect of banning kosher and halal slaughter. This was condemned by Jewish and Muslim groups in Poland and around the world. In the parliamentary vote, 178 members voted for re-legalizing ritual slaughter, while 222 members opposed it.\n\nDespite the fact that Muslims in Poland constitute less than 0.1% of the total population, stereotypes, verbal, violent, and physical displays of anti-Islam are widespread and, mostly, socially acceptable. Vandalism and attacks on the very few existing mosques are reported,and women (especially converts) who cover themselves are seen as \"traitors\" to their own culture.\n\nIn 2012 a Parliamentary Group for prevention of atheism in Poland was established by the Polish Sejm.\n\nArticle 13 of the Portuguese Constitution states, in part, that \"No one may be privileged, favored, prejudiced, deprived of any right or exempted from any duty for reasons of ancestry, sex, race, language, territory of origin, religion, political or ideological beliefs, education, economic situation, social circumstances or sexual orientation.\" It was adopted in 1974.\n\nThe Constitution of Russia adopted on December 12, 1993, declares the state to be secular, and that no religion shall be declared an official or compulsory religion. The Constitution further provides for equality of all religious associations before the law and states in Article 14 that all religious organizations shall be separate from the state. This provision is contained in the chapter that constitutes the fundamental principles of the constitutional system of the Russia Federation and cannot be changed except by a very complicated procedure established by the Constitution.\n\nReligious freedom in Russia is affected by the Yarovaya law, passed in 2016, which primarily deals with counter-terrorism measures. The law includes provisions for restrictions on evangelism and missionary work, stating that missionary activity can only occur at churches and other religious sites. Missionary activities may only be performed by authorized members of registered religious groups and organizations. A group becomes ineligible to perform missionary activities if they have been banned under a court order for practicing extremism or terrorism, or have been liquidated. Foreign missionaries may only perform missionary activities after registering for a permit from a recognized religious organization.\n\nThe Russian government has obstructed the activities of some religious groups that it deemed to be \"totalitarian\" or \"extremist\". These labels are often used to curtail the activities of religious groups that the Russian Orthodox Church deems \"not traditional\", including the Jehovah's Witnesses, and some newer Protestant movements. In 2017, a report from the U.S. Commission on International Religious Freedom classified Russia as one of the world's worst violators of freedom of religion, a \"country of particular concern\" under the International Religious Freedom Act.\n\nAntisemitism is present in Russian society, with a number of violent incidents occurring in the 21st century. The prominence of antisemitism in Russia has decreased since its peak in the early 2000s.\n\nThe constitution and other laws and policies protect religious freedom and, in practice, the government generally respected religious freedom.\n\nThe Church of Sweden lost its position as the state church on 1 January 2000. Since then, 22 recognized religious denominations, in addition to the Church of Sweden, raise revenues through member-contributions made through the national tax system. All recognized denominations are entitled to direct government financial support, contributions made through the national tax system, or a mix of both. The state does not favor the Church of Sweden at the expense of other religious groups in any noticeable way. Certain Christian religious holy days are national holidays. School students from minority religious backgrounds are entitled to take relevant religious holidays.\n\nThe Human Rights Act 1998, which incorporates the European Convention on Human Rights into domestic law, guarantees the protection of individual rights, including freedom of thought, conscience, and religion, and the freedom to hold or adopt a religion or belief of one's choice. Religious organizations are generally accorded the status of tax exempt public charities. Religious education is mandated in state schools based on a syllabus reflecting the country's Christian traditions, but taking into account the other principal represented religions. Students may be excused from attendance at religious worship or instruction upon the request of a parent.\n\nParliament has authority to govern the Church of England, but, since 1919 has generally delegated this authority to that Church's General Synod (earlier called the Church Assembly). Parliament retains the ability to veto measures of the General Synod or Church Assembly; this rarely invoked power was used in 1927 and 1928 to prevent adoption of a revised prayer book. Measures also require royal assent.\n\nThe appointment of bishops and archbishops of the Church falls within the royal prerogative. In current practice, the Prime Minister makes the choice from two candidates submitted by a commission of prominent Church members, then passes his choice on to the monarch. The Prime Minister plays this role even though he himself is not required to be a member of the Church of England or even a Christian—for example Clement Attlee was an agnostic who described himself as \"incapable of religious feeling\". Senior Church of England bishops have a right to sit in the House of Lords, the upper chamber of the Parliament of the United Kingdom.\n\nThe Church of Scotland is Presbyterian while the Church of England is Anglican (Episcopalian). The former is a national church guaranteed by law to be separate from the state, while the latter is a state-established church and any major changes to doctrine, liturgy, or structure must have parliamentary approval. Neither Wales nor Northern Ireland currently have established churches: the Church in Wales was disestablished in 1920, the Church of Ireland in 1871. The Act of Settlement 1701 mandates that no Catholic shall be the monarch of the United Kingdom, nor shall they be married to one. The king or queen must promise to uphold the rights of the Presbyterian church in Scotland and the Anglican church in England. He or she is the Supreme Governor of the Church of England, holding the title of Defender of the Faith, but an ordinary member of the Church of Scotland. Neither church receives direct funding from taxation. \n\nAccording to a government investigation conducted in 2013, 75% of Sikhs in the UK have experienced discrimination. The Troubles in Northern Ireland were characterized by sectarian killings between Catholics and Protestants, but since the Good Friday Agreement in 1998 and the St Andrews Agreement in 2006, killings have largely ceased, although sectarian murders are occasionally still reported and tensions linger. Studies conducted in 2017 by the Runnymede Trust and the University of Greenwich found that Muslim prisoners face worse conditions in British jails, alongside Black prisoners. Muslims in the UK are further subject to hate crimes and violence. While the Campaign Against Antisemitism has criticized British police for not responding sufficiently to antisemitic crime in 2016, the Pew Research Center and Institute for Jewish Policy Research published reports in 2015 and 2017 finding that the UK has one of the lowest rates of antisemitism in the world. \n\nReligious freedom in Canada is a constitutionally protected right as part of Section 2 of the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms, allowing believers the freedom to assemble and worship without limitation or interference.\n\nThere is no established church, however religious groups can qualify for tax-exemption. The amount of funding religious schools receive varies from province to province. In many provinces religious schools are government funded in the same way other independent schools are. In most parts of Canada there is a Catholic education system alongside the secular \"public\" education system. They all run on Catholic principles and include religious activities and instruction as a matter of course. They are not exclusively attended by practicing Catholics.\n\nThe Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms, which is entrenched in the Constitution, states in the preamble that Canada \"is founded upon principles that recognize the supremacy of God and the rule of law.\"\nFreedom of religion as also guaranteed. The Supreme Court of Canada, in the case of \"Her Majesty The Queen in Right of Canada v. Big M Drug Mart Ltd.\", <nowiki>[</nowiki>1985<nowiki>]</nowiki> (1 S.C.R. 295) ruled that a 1906 statute that required most places to be closed on Sunday did not have a legitimate purpose in a \"free and democratic society,\" and was an unconstitutional attempt to establish a religious-based closing law (see Blue law.)\n\nThe Constitution of Mexico and other laws establish and protect the freedom of religion in Mexico. \n\nA precedent of limiting the rights of the church – especially the Roman Catholic Church– was set by President Valentín Gómez Farías in 1833. Later, President Benito Juárez enacted a set of laws that came to be known as the \"Leyes de Reforma\" (or Reform laws) between 1859 and 1863 in the backdrop of the \"Reform War\". These laws mandated, among other things, the separation of church and state, allowed for civil marriages and a civil registry, and confiscated the church's property.\n\nTensions also existed between the Roman Catholic Church and the post-Revolution Mexican government. Severe restrictions on the rights of the Church and members of the clergy were written into the country's 1917 constitution that led to the eruption of the Cristero War in 1926. In 1992 the government reestablished diplomatic relations with the Holy See and lifted almost all restrictions on the Catholic Church. This later action included granting all religious groups legal status, conceding them limited property rights, and lifting restrictions on the number of priests in the country. However, the law continues to mandate a strict separation of church and state. The constitution still bars members of the clergy from holding public office, advocating partisan political views, supporting political candidates, or opposing the laws or institutions of the state.\n\nThe constitution provides that education should avoid privileges of religion, and that one religion or its members may not be given preference in education over another. Religious instruction is prohibited in public schools; however, religious associations are free to maintain private schools, which receive no public funds.\n\nReligious groups may not own or administer broadcast radio or television stations. Government permission is required for commercial broadcast radio or television to transmit religious programming.\n\nThe Constitution of Panama provides for freedom of religion, with some qualifications, and other laws and policies contribute to the generally free practice of religion. The law at all levels protects this right in full against abuse, either by governmental or private actors. The Government generally respects religious freedom in practice. In 2007, the US government received no reports of societal abuses or discrimination based on religious affiliation, belief, or practice. The Constitution dictates that Catholicism be taught in public schools; however, parents have the right to exempt their children from religious instruction. The numerical predominance of Catholicism and the consideration given to it in the Constitution generally have not prejudiced other religious groups.\n\nThe principle of freedom of religion is officially protected by the US constitution. US Supreme Court rulings have re-stated and expanded upon the legal individual right of freedom of religion within the United States of America.\n\nIn the 17th and 18th centuries, many Europeans emigrated to what would later become the United States. For some this was driven at least partly by the desire to worship freely in their own fashion. These included a large number of nonconformists such as the Puritans and the Pilgrims as well as English Catholics. However, with some exceptions, such as William Penn of Pennsylvania or the Roman Catholic Lord Baltimore in Maryland, most of these groups did not believe in religious toleration and in some cases came to America with the explicit aim of setting up an established religion.\n\nDespite the historical protection of the freedom of religion in the US body of law, these rights were not extended to Native Americans for much of US history. With the practice of the Americanization of Native Americans, Native American children were sent to Christian boarding schools where they were forced to worship as Christians and traditional customs were banned. Until the Freedom of Religion Act 1978, \"spiritual leaders [of Native Americans] ran the risk of jail sentences of up to 30 years for simply practicing their rituals.\" The traditional indigenous Sun Dance was illegal from 1904 to the 1980s. Peyote, a hallucinogenic plant used in some Native American religious ceremonies, is illegal in the US, and access to other items used for ceremonies, such as eagle feathers, is restricted. Ancestral remains and lands also have a significant role in Native American religions, and access to both the land and physical remains (many of which are being held in museums) is limited.\n\nIn 2016, the Federal Bureau of Investigation reported that 54.2% of hate crimes motivated by religious bias targeted Jews. Cultural changes from the 1960s onward into the 21st century have caused a large shift in general attitudes such that, in recent years, most Americans surveyed express positive viewpoints regarding Jews, whereas previously antisemitism was more common in American society. An ABC News report in 2007 recounted that about 6% of Americans reported some feelings of prejudice against Jews. According to surveys by the Anti-Defamation League in 2011, antisemitism is rejected by clear majorities of Americans, with 64% of them lauding Jews' cultural contributions to the nation in 2011, but still a minority holding hateful views of Jews remain, with 19% of Americans supporting the antisemitic canard that Jews co-control Wall Street. Holocaust denial has also only been a fringe phenomenon in recent years; 96% of Americans believe the Holocaust occurred.\n\nWhile discrimination along religious lines is officially illegal, discrimination and prejudice against Muslims is common in American society. Muslims face discrimination in the workplace, discrimination at airport security checkpoints, immigration hearings. Additionally, Muslims are subjected to harassment, and there have been incidents of deadly violence perpetrated against Muslims due to their religion. As a consequence of the Patriot Act, various bodies of the American government have explicitly engaged in the targeted surveillance and infiltration of Muslim communities. Studies have noted that Muslims are disproportionately negatively portrayed as violent in American media.\n\nIn the United States, seven state constitutions include religious tests that would effectively prevent atheists from holding public office, and in some cases being a juror/witness, though these have not generally been enforced since the early twentieth century. Despite polling showing that nonbelievers make up an increasingly large part of the population there is only one public atheist in all of the state legislatures across the nation. Few politicians have been willing to acknowledge their lack of belief in supreme beings, since such revelations have been considered \"political suicide\". A 2015 Gallup survey found that 40% of Americans would not vote an atheist for president,and in polls prior to 2015, that number had reached about 50%.\n\nChapter V. The States; Section 116 of the Australian Constitution reads: \"The Commonwealth shall not make any law for establishing any religion, or for imposing any religious observance, or for prohibiting the free exercise of any religion, and no religious test shall be required as a qualification for any office or public trust under the Commonwealth.\" Some states and territories, such as Victoria and the Australian Capital Territory have implemented additional charters which further protect the right to freedom of religion.\n\nAntisemitism is present in Australian society, manifesting primarily in the form of attacks on synagogues, ranging in severity from vandalism to arson and bombings. Anti-semitic material has been found distributed on Australian college campuses. \n\nAccording to some scholars, a particular trend of anti-Muslim prejudice has developed in Australia since the late 1980s. Various far-right groups have held anti-Muslim rallies and have otherwise espoused anti-Muslim political campaigns. A 2014 report from the Islamic Sciences and Research Academy, University of Western Sydney, on mosques in New South Wales found that 44 percent of mosques in the state had \"experienced resistance from the local community when the mosque was initially proposed\". In around 20 percent of these cases opposition was from a small number of people.\n\nThere has never been a state church in New Zealand, although prayers are said in Parliament. The New Zealand Bill of Rights Act 1990 codified freedom of religion and belief in Section 15. Blasphemous libel is a crime in New Zealand, but cases can only be prosecuted with the approval of the Attorney-General and the defence of opinion is allowed: \"It is not an offence against this section to express in good faith and in decent language, or to attempt to establish by arguments used in good faith and conveyed in decent language, any opinion whatever on any religious subject.\" The only prosecution, in 1922, was unsuccessful.\n\nArticle 14 of the Constitution of Argentina guarantees all the inhabitants of the Nation the right \"to profess freely their religion.\" The Constitution further requires the government to support Roman Catholicism economically, and the government pays salaries for Roman Catholic bishops. Despite this, the Supreme Court has ruled that the Roman Catholic Church was not granted the status of official religion by the constitution or any federal legislation.\n\nA 2011 poll conducted by the Gino Germani Research Institute of the University of Buenos Aires on behalf of the Anti-Defamation League and Delegación de Asociaciones Israelitas Argentinas showed that a majority of Argentines held antisemitic sentiments or prejudices. There have been a number of antisemitic incidents recorded in Argentina since 2010, largely in the form of verbal abuse and vandalism.\nReligious freedom has been part of Brazilian law since January 7, 1890, codified by a decree signed by President Deodoro da Fonseca in the then-newly established Republic. It has been a Constitutional right since the 1946 Constitution was enacted, up to and including the current 1988 Constitution of Brazil.\n\nJanuary 7 is the National Day of Religious Freedom in Brazil.\n\nThe Colombian Constitution of 1991 guarantees freedom of religion and maintains that all religious faiths are equally free before the law. The government of Colombia does not collect religious statistics in its censuses.\n\nFreedom of religion in Ecuador is guaranteed by the country's constitution, and the government generally respects this right in practice. Religious groups are allowed to engage in missionary activities, and private schools are allowed to provide religious instruction, although the government generally does not allow religious instruction in public schools.\n\nFreedom of religion in Paraguay is provided in the Constitution of Paraguay. The law at all levels protects this right in full against abuse, either by governmental or private actors, and the constitution provides for conscientious objection to military service.The constitution recognizes the historical role of the Catholic Church (the dominant religion). Although the government is secular in name and practice, most government officials are Catholic, and Catholic clergy occasionally speak during official government events.\n\nThe government permits, but does not require religious instruction in public schools. Parents are permitted to homeschool or send their children to the school of their choice without sanction or restriction.\n\nAnti-Semitic and pro-Nazi messages and symbols, including graffiti, appear sporadically. The government investigated but did not identify suspects. In July 2007 the newspaper ABC Colorpublished an anti-Semitic article.\n\n"}
{"id": "22199069", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22199069", "title": "Glossary of Shinto", "text": "Glossary of Shinto\n\nThis is the glossary of Shinto, including major terms the casual (or brand-new) reader might find useful in understanding articles on the subject. Words followed by an asterisk (*) are illustrated by an image in one of the photo galleries. Within definitions, words set in boldface are defined elsewhere in the glossary.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12538519", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12538519", "title": "Gospel Hall Assemblies", "text": "Gospel Hall Assemblies\n\nThe Gospel Halls are a group of independent Christian assemblies throughout the world that fellowship with each other through a set of shared Biblical doctrines and practices. Theologically, they are evangelical and dispensational. They are a conservative strand of the Open Brethren movement and tend to only collaborate with other assemblies when there is doctrinal agreement.\n\nChristians who meet in Gospel Halls generally hold that a scriptural Christian assembly should avoid the use of a \"sectarian\" name (the name \"Gospel Hall Assemblies\" is a Wikipedia designation, and they are often called “Plymouth Brethren” by outsiders, but should not be confused with the yet more conservative branch known as the Plymouth Brethren Christian Church ). They typically describe themselves simply as \"Christians\" gathered to the name of the Lord Jesus rather than adopting a denominational title, which has been a long-standing practice.\n\nAccording to Acts 2:42 of the Bible, the first assembly of Christians commenced in Jerusalem around AD32. Gospel Hall assemblies consider this to be their true roots in a spiritual sense. As Christianity spread throughout the Near Eastern world, other churches were planted in new locations (see Revelation chapters 2–3). Two popular books among Gospel Halls — \"The Pilgrim Church\" by E.H. Broadbent and \"Church History\" by Andrew Miller make the claim that throughout the centuries of church history, there has always been a remnant independent evangelical testimony, and that the modern Gospel Hall movement, which began in the 1800s, with hundreds of new independent assemblies appearing almost simultaneously in various places around the world (particularly in Ireland, Scotland, England, and continental Europe) was a recovery of numerous New Testament beliefs and practices which had been largely lost in Christendom over the centuries. One book discussing this phenomenon is an anonymous work called \"Assembly Life Experiences\" by \"an old disciple\", recording the story of a group of Christians who were converted in the 1859 revival in Scotland. Through reading only their Bibles they concluded that clericalism and denominationalism were unscriptural and subsequently met together to break bread and depend on God for gifting and leadership.\n\nDuring the Revival of 1859 which affected much of Northern Ireland and Scotland, “exercised” (stirred in spirit) evangelists, such as Alexander Marshall, Donald Ross and Donald Munro, crossed the Atlantic to preach the gospel, leading to numerous assemblies being planted in United States and Canada. Norman Crawford has documented this story in a chapter of his book \"Assembly Truth\" published by Gospel Tract Publications (Glasgow, 1994). (See also J.J. Rouse for information on an early Canadian Gospel Hall pioneer). Currently, there are hundreds of Gospel Halls worldwide.\n\nGospel Halls claim to follow the pattern of New Testament church doctrine and practice found in the Acts of the Apostles and expounded by the Apostle Paul in his epistles, notably, 1 Corinthians and 1 Timothy. Assemblies meeting in Gospel Halls do not usually print an official statement of faith, but rather, prefer to reference the Bible alone as their authority. The following basic doctrines would be held very widely among them:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nIn most Gospel Halls the following weekly meetings are convened at varying times, and may be combined:\n\nGospel Halls around the world are involved in spreading the gospel of Christ through various means including public preaching, literature work, Bible exhibitions, Sunday schools, radio programmes, prison and school visitation, hospital work and gospel tent meetings during the summer months. Distribution of gospel tracts, gospel calendars and other evangelistic material is commonplace as well as open-air preaching. With thousands of assemblies and with many hundreds of full-time itinerant evangelists, missionaries and Bible teachers, the enterprise of spreading the message of Jesus Christ and upholding the fundamental truths of the Bible continues as the vision of Christians gathering in Gospel Halls worldwide. During the last half of the 20th century and into the 21st century, while shrinkage was a feature in Europe, expansion was seen in numerous places, notably Canada, South and Central America and Mexico.\n\nConferences are a significant feature of life among Gospel Halls. Many Gospel Halls will host an annual conference to which visitors will be invited to come and hear Bible teaching. Typically in the UK these will be one-day events, whereas in North America they will span a whole weekend. In Scotland, the New Year period is a popular time for conferences. The Easter weekend is also popular for conferences, with notable ones in Belfast, Toronto and Vancouver, as well as some Latin American countries such as Venezuela and Guatemala. Residential Bible study weeks are also carried out among Gospel Halls throughout the world.\n\nRecordings of Bible teaching from conferences in Gospel Halls are available on numerous localised Gospel Hall websites and on some central audio collection sites.\n\nHolding that the word ἐκκλησία (ekklēsia, \"church\") refers to people, not a building, they avoid calling their buildings \"churches,\" preferring to use the title \"Gospel Hall\" to indicate that the gospel is preached and upheld within. They place little emphasis on their actual church buildings, not considering them to be sacred, and many of the buildings take other names, for example Bethesda Hall, Main Street Hall, Hebron Hall, Gospel Centre, or Believer's Meeting Room. In England and Wales, several buildings named \"Gospel Hall\" are registered for worship under some Brethren designation, however, the name \"Gospel Hall\" has also been used by Presbyterian and conservative Pentecostals.\n\nLiterature has always been emphasized among Gospel Halls. The Scottish publisher John Ritchie Ltd. publishes material from authors connected with Gospel Halls, as well as publishing \"The Believer's Magazine\", a monthly periodical that has a wide circulation among these assemblies. Other well-known magazines read by Christians in these assemblies are \"Assembly Testimony\", \"Present Truth\" and \"Precious Seed\". In the US and Canada, the magazine most widely circulated among Gospel Halls is \"Truth and Tidings\". Missionary magazines such as \"Look on the Fields\" and \"Horizons\" are also much used.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20039284", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20039284", "title": "Gunasthana", "text": "Gunasthana\n\nThe fourteen \"Gunasthāna\" represents the soul's gradual manifestation of the innate qualities of knowledge, belief and conduct in a more and more perfect form. Following are the stages of spiritual development:\n\nThe first stage signifies gross ignorance. If at this stage, a person meditates on his existence, there is a temporary suspension of the following:\n\n\nThis \"gunasthāna\" represents the mental state of the soul in the process or act of falling from right faith. Here \"sā\" means \"with\" and sādana means \"exhausted\", hence that which is characterised by exhausted faith.\n\n\"Misra\" literally means mixed. At this stage, a person hovers between certainty and doubt on Right belief.\n\nWhen doubts of an individual are removed, he/she reaches this stage and becomes a \"samyagdrishti\" (true believer). The doubts may have been removed by meditation or the instruction of a spiritual teacher.\n\n\"Deśa\" means partial and \"virata\" means vow i.e. observance of the partial vows in pursuit of Right conduct.\n\nFirst step of life as a \"Jain muni\" (monk). The stage of complete self-discipline, although sometimes brought into wavering through negligence.\n\n\nThe stage of one in whom the passions are still occurring in a gross form.\n\nThe stage of one who practices the process called \"annivrtti karaņa\" and in whom however the passions are still occurring.\n\nThe stage of one in whom the passions occur in a subtle form.\n\nThe stage of one who has suppressed every passion but still does not possess omniscience.\n\nThe stage of who has annihilated every passion but does not yet possess omniscience. According to the Jain text, \"Gommatsāra Jīvakanda\":\n\n\"Sa\" means \"with\" and yoga refers to the three channels of activity, i.e., mind, speech and body. \"Kevali\" is a term used to refer the omniscient beings (\"arihantas\"). This stage is characterised by the destruction of all inimical (\"ghātiā\") \"karmas\" and attainment of omniscience. \n\nThis is the last stage on the Path, and is followed by the soul's destruction of the \"aghātiā karmas\". Those who pass this stage are called \"siddha\" and become fully established in Right Faith, Right Knowledge and Right Conduct.\n\nThe whole scheme of \"gunasthana\" in Jain philosophy is devised in a logical order according to the principle of decreasing sinfulness and increasing purity. At the first stage, all the five causes of bondage — Irrational beliefs (\"mithyatva\"), non-restraint (\"avirati\"), carelessness (\"pramada\"), passions (\"kashaya\") and activities of mind, speech and body (\"yoga\") — are in full operation. Irrational beliefs (\"mithyatva\") are partially suppressed in the second and third stages, and are fully eliminated in the fourth stage. In stages five and six, non-restraint (\"avirati\") is gradually eliminated in stages. From the seventh stage onwards, carelessness is removed and only passions and activity exercise their influence. From the eleventh to the thirteenth all the passions are eliminated and only activity is present. On the last stage, there is no activity, hence no binding of karma.\n\nOut of the four ghatiya karmas, darsana mohiniya karma (perception deluding karma) is destroyed first in the fourth stage of \"gunasthana\". Caritra mohiniya karma (conduct deluding karma) is destroyed next in the twelfth gunasthana. The remaining three ghatiya karmas (knowledge obstructing karma, perception obstructing karma and energy obstructing karma) are destroyed in the 13th stage and the rest four aghatiya karmas (life-span determining, body determining, status determining and feeling producing karmas) are destroyed in the 14th or the last stage of gunasthana.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2395007", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2395007", "title": "Hao Asakura", "text": "Hao Asakura\n\n, also known as Zeke Asakura in the English dub of the Japanese anime, is the main antagonist in the manga and anime series \"Shaman King\", created by Hiroyuki Takei. He is voiced by Minami Takayama in the Japanese version and Sebastian Arcelus in the English adaption. Hao is the ancestor of Yoh Asakura, the protagonist of the series, as well as his twin brother in his third life.\n\nIn \"Shaman King\", Hao initially appears as one of many unnamed observers to Yoh Asakura and Tao Ren's match for the final qualifying spot for the \"Shaman Fight\" and resides by the Matagawa River in Tokyo with the Spirit of Fire. In his first formal appearance in Reincarnation 78, he is introduced as , a powerful shaman who Yoh notes has an uncanny resemblance to both himself and the Patch Officiant Silva. Accompanied by a number of followers, Hao declares his intention to create a shaman-only world and expresses an immediate interest in Yoh as someone who Hao will need in the future. Hao continues to observe Yoh and his development throughout the series for the intention of eventually claiming Yoh's soul as part of his own. Hao also develops an interest in Anna Kyoyama after realizing she had the power to defeat the shikigami familiars he created and because of her strong resemblance to Asanoha Douji, his mother in his original incarnation.\n\nDuring the second round of the Shaman Fight, Yoh and his friends gradually learn that a number of shaman hold personal vendettas against Hao for how he has hurt them in the past. They also learn that he was somehow involved in the Shaman Fights from 1000 years ago and 500 years ago. It is eventually disclosed that Hao was once the founder of the Asakura family and had gained great prominence as a diviner for the Imperial Court; however, he eventually developed deep hatred for humanity as a whole and attempted to become Shaman King to destroy them. The Asakura family was able to defeat him, though Hao's mastery of esoteric onmyouji arts allowed him to be reborn 500 years later as a Patch Priest and then in the present when his efforts to become Shaman King failed a second time. When the present Hao's surname is announced to be \"Asakura\" during the Shaman Tournament, Yoh initially tells his friends that Hao is his distant ancestor, though he later reveals that during Hao's second reincarnation, Hao was reborn as Yoh's twin brother, thus explaining their resemblance.\n\nIn present Shaman Fight, Hao is soon established as the most powerful participant with 1,250,000 furyoku at his disposal and the powerful Spirit of Fire as his guardian ghost. In addition, he is able to read minds, allowing him to anticipate the actions of his opponents beforehand. In addition to his resemblance to Yoh, Hao exhibits a surprisingly easy-going affable attitude, similar to Yoh's personality.\n\nHowever, he has deep contempt for ordinary humans and is extremely ruthless towards his opponents. Though he has gathered a number of loyal followers, he actually trusts very few people, expressing his inner thoughts only occasionally to his teammates Opacho and Luchist Lasso. Out of hatred for humanity, he espouses the belief that the destruction of humanity will allow the planet and other animals that humans abused to be saved. Because of his overwhelming power, he has allowed people to worship him as god and appears to have developed a superiority complex, regarding all other beings as his inferiors, a belief made more dangerous by his ability to back up this claim. His most distinctive motif is a star design he wears upon his clothing and he is usually seen wearing a long poncho cloak over his trousers.\n\nHowever, in spite of Hao's disdain for humanity and overwhelming power, Yoh expresses the belief the way to defeat Hao is not through a confrontation of power and the destruction of his soul, but through the heart.\n\nOriginally, Hao was a child named \"\" from the Heian period. Both he and his mother, , had the ability to see ghosts. However, Asanoha was killed by a corrupt and fraudalent priest, Densen-Hoshi, when she was accused of being a \"kitsune\" fox demon and Asaha was labelled a demon child. Asaha was eventually found by a friendly demon spirit, , who nicknamed the child \" based on an alternate reading of Asaha's name. Ohachiyo cared for and taught Asaha many things and attempted to quell the child's desire for vengeance and his hatred of humanity. However, when the same priest attempted to kill Asaha as a scapegoat for recent troubles in the community, Ohachiyo allowed Asaha to create an Over Soul with him so they could defeat the priest. The combination allowed Asaha to read the priest's mind and kill him, but exhausting his own furyoku caused Ohachiyo's spirit to fuse with Asaha's, permanently leaving Asaha with the \"reishi\" sight, the ability to read minds.\n\nAsaha's shamanic abilities were eventually recognized and he became an onmyouji priest, renaming himself \"\", and founding the Asakura clan. The family rose to prominence and Hao became a diviner for the Imperial Court. During this time, he found a sickly stray cat with heightened spiritual powers; the cat became Matamune, who Hao regarded as his only true friend and would bequeath a portion of his furyoku to the cat to maintain his physical presence in the world after he died. Regarded as a master of the Wu Xing pentagram, Hao was able to control the five elements that give form to creation. However, his compassionate heart was overcome by his deep-seated desire to avenge his mother's death and his growing hatred of humans because of their selfish natures. Failing to win his first Shaman King tournament because of the combined efforts of the Asakura family to stop him, Hao was able to reincarnate with full awareness of his past life in time to participate in the next tournament.\n\nFive hundred years later, Hao was reincarnated as a member of the Patch tribe and massacred the Seminoa tribe when they refused to accept his vision of a shaman-only world. After successfully taking control of the Spirit of Fire, an elemental spirit that embodies the essence of one of the five elements of nature, he attempted to become Shaman King again. Despite possessing such advantages, he was defeated by Yohken Asakura, one of his descendants, and Matamune, who reluctantly put aside his love and loyalty for Hao for the sake of saving the world. Though the Patch Tribe intended to kill the wife and child Hao had left behind, they realized that they were missing a priest because of Hao's death. The wife and child were spared to continue the lineage of Patch Priests and one of Hao's descendants in his Patch incarnation became the Patch Officiant Silva.\n\nIn his most recent reincarnation, Hao chose to reincarnate as a member of the Asakura family, as a pair of identical twins to be born to Keiko Asakura, splitting his soul between himself and Yoh. In hopes of at least stopping Hao until the next Shaman Fight, Keiko's father, Yohmei, and her husband Mikihisa, decided to kill both children. However, following his rebirth, Hao escaped from the Asakura family with the help of the Spirit of Fire, while badly burning Mikihisa and sparing his twin brother with the promise to reclaim him some day. After escaping from the Asakura family, Hao was raised by Blocken Meyer. When Hao was five years old, he began travelling the world and accumulating loyal followers while simultaneously leaving a wake of destruction in areas of conflict and killing those who would not join him while survivors would eventually gather together to seek revenge in the Shaman Fight. In the months leading up to the tournament Hao began to kill prospective competition while gathering an entourage to assist him in winning the current Shaman King tournament.\n\nWhen it becomes apparent that Hao cannot be defeated in a direct confrontation, Yoh and his allies elect to allow Hao to become Shaman King uncontested and begin an alternate plan to eliminate Hao as he sleeps to merge with the Great Spirit. Yoh and his friends are unable to reach Hao before he awakens, after which he annihilates everyone within the proximity of the continent of Mu, where the final round of the Shaman Fight had been taking place. Within the Great Spirit, Hao is confronted with the souls of nearly everyone he has ever encountered who have come to save him from his loneliness and he begins to doubt his own heart. After finally reuniting with the spirit of his mother after 1000 years, she reprimands his behavior and encourages him to love and have faith in humanity. No longer blinded by hatred, he accepts the promise of Yoh and his friends to try and change the world for the better and tells them that he would watch over them and see what would happen.\n\nIn Hao's original incarnation, he had been a powerful Onmyōdō priest in the Asakura clan and had mastered all the arts and techniques of \"Onmyoudou\", including the divinatory arts, creation of demons, and the ability to manipulate all five elements of the pentagram, allowing him to bargain with the Taizun Fukun, the god of Hell, in order to control his reincarnation. His power had been so considerable that even the ogre demons he tamed as \"shikigami\" familiars remain loyal and powerful even 1000 years later and Matamune, whose physical existence relied on Hao's furyoku, was able to maintain his form for ten centuries. Many of Hao's techniques were recorded in the , a tome sealed within a hidden shrine at the Asakura's ancestral home in Izumo.\n\nBecause shaman become more powerful after dying and being resurrected, Hao has become exponentially more powerful with each reincarnation as he retains all the awareness of himself over the past 1000 years his spirit has existed. By the time of the current tournament, he possesses furyoku level of 1,250,000.\n\nUpon gaining the Spirit of Fire as his guardian ghost in his first reincarnation, its power was reduced considerably since its trip from Hell in order for Hao to bargain with Taizun Fukun to be reincarnated a second time as a descendant of the Asakura family. In order for the Spirit of Fire to regain its former strength, Hao feeds the spirit the souls of shaman he has defeated.\n\n\nIn Hao's appearance in the \"Shaman King\" anime series, it is stated that his incarnation as a Patch member was defeated by an unnamed member of the Asakura family using the \"Futsunomitama Sword\" and the 1080 beads containing the powerful spirits of the Asakura family. Toward the conclusion of the series, he is confronted by the \"X-Laws\", a paramilitary organization of shaman led by Iron Maiden Jeanne, who make a disastrous attempt to defeat him by opening the Gate of Babylon. Hao subsequently comes to regard the Shaman Fight as a waste of time and elects to seize the Great Spirit by force using the power of the Spirit of Fire, which has become sufficiently powerful after consuming Jeanne's spirit Shamash. Yoh attempts to defeat him before he can succeed, but is overwhelmed and his soul is consumed after Hao expresses disgust with Yoh's attitude that \"everything will work out\". Yoh's friends arrive and try to defeat Hao using a binding spell that defeated him 500 years prior with the spirits of the Asakura ancestors contained the 1080 beads wielded by Anna. Hao's defeat comes when Yoh's soul breaks free before being fully consumed and Yoh uses the combined power of all the shamans in the tournament to boost Amidamaru's power and destroy Hao.\n\nHao does not appear in \"Funbari no Uta\", the short story series written by Takei that takes place seven years after \"Shaman King\", though he appears in \"Shaman King - Hana's Epoch\", which focuses on Hana Asakura, the son of Yoh and Anna, during Hana's teenage years. Hana, frustrated with how he is unable to exercise his abilities as a shaman like his father had, encounters Hao, now existing as the Shaman King. After Hana recognizes him as \"Uncle Hao\", Hao announces to Hana that he will soon meet his future bride, Anna III, the daughter of Silva and an itako disciple of Anna I.\n"}
{"id": "6839610", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6839610", "title": "Hinduism in Botswana", "text": "Hinduism in Botswana\n\nThe practice of Hinduism in Botswana is concentrated in and around Gaborone and Selebi-Phikwe. The community of Hindus began to form in the early 20th century with the beginning of immigration from India to Botswana. Most Hindus in Botswana are of Indian descent. \n\nThe 2001 census of Botswana listed approximately 3,000 Hindus. Members of Hindu community estimated that these figures significantly understated their respective numbers.\n\nAs of January 2016, there are five Hindu temples in Botswana, including the Sai Temple and ISKCON Temple in Gaborone. With the growth of the community, a number of region-based community associations have sprung up. There is already a Hindu temple in Gaborone, and another in Selebi-Phikwe. A gurudwara is also been built in the capital city. Plans have been made for the construction of a Swaminarayan temple, a Sai Baba Centre, a Venkateswara Temple and an ISKCON Centre at various sites in Botswana.\n\nThe following are the major Hindu temples in Botswana:\n\nThe ISKCON Botswana temple is situated in Gaborone West Phase 2, opposite Baobab Primary School. It is a magnificent temple orange and maroon in colour that has attracted many people from all parts of the country to see its magnificent art work that can be seen on the outside and especially on the inside. It is the home of Sri Sri Kirishna & Balarama.\n\nThe Hindu Hall in Gaborone is situated behind the \"Caltex\" filling station, located in the area adjacent to the \"Maru-a-Pula Robots\" (traffic lights). All the major Hindu festivals (Maha Shivaratri, Rama Navami, Dussehra, Diwali etc.) are observed in this temple.\n\nAt the entrance to the Hindu Hall, is located the 'Navagraha Temple', with the deities of the 9 planets. Immediately adjoining thereto, is the 'Lord Shiva Temple' with a 'Shiva Lingam' at the centre, which is surrounded on the sides by the idols of Lord Subrahmanya, Goddess Mother Parvati, and Lord Ganesha.\n\nOn the inside of the wall of the Shiva Temple, there is a small cavern, which couches one idol of Lord Shiva, Mother Parvati, with Lord Baby Ganesh and Lord Baby Subrahmanya on their laps.\n\nThere is also a 'Nandi' facing the Shiva Lingam.\n\nInside there is a big hall from which the temple draws its name. Upon the dais, there are idols of Lord Rama, Mother Sita, Lakshmana and Lord Hanuman. There is also an idol of Lord Shiva.\n\nThe Botswana Hindu Charities Trust (BHCT) built the Sri Balaji Temple in Gaborone in the classical Dravidian architectural style. This Temple is one of its kind in the Southern African region and become a cultural attraction in Gaborone, after earning the people's admiration for the architectural and the sculptural beauty. The Temple has cost over Rs. 2 crores to build.\n\nThe Temple has 10 sanctum sanctorums to house Lord Balaji and his consorts Sridevi and Bhudevi as the presiding deity, Lord Ganesha, Lord Anjaneya (Hanuman), Lord Shiva, Mata Vaishnodevi, Lord Ayyapa, Lord Muruga and the Navagrahas. All Mulavar Vigrahas and Utsav Murthies were imported from India. The doors for the Maha Mandap and the Rajagopuram were imported from Kerala. The doors of Maha Mandap depict the scenes from Krishna Leela whereas the doors of Raja Gopuram depict the Dasa Avathars.\n\n"}
{"id": "1406850", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1406850", "title": "Historical Jewish population comparisons", "text": "Historical Jewish population comparisons\n\nJewish population centers have shifted tremendously over time, due to the constant streams of Jewish refugees created by expulsions, persecution, and officially sanctioned killing of Jews in various places at various times. In addition, assimilation and forced conversions have also impacted Jewish population sizes throughout Jewish history.\n\nThe 20th century saw a large shift in Jewish populations, as a result of large-scale migration to the Americas and to Israel due to pogroms in the Russian Empire followed by the Holocaust. The independence of Israel sparked mass emigrations and expulsions of Jews from the Arab world.\n\nToday, the majority of the world's Jewish population is concentrated in two countries, the United States and Israel.\n\nThe Torah contains a number of statements as to the number of (adult, male) Hebrews that left Egypt, the descendants of the seventy sons and grandsons of Jacob who took up their residence in that country. Altogether, including Levites, the number given is 611,730. For non-Levites, this represents men fit for military service, i.e. between twenty and sixty years of age; among the Levites the relevant number is those obligated in temple service (males between twenty and fifty years of age). This would imply a population of about 3,000,000. The Census of David is said to have recorded 1,300,000 males over twenty years of age, which would imply a population of over 5,000,000. The number of exiles who returned from Babylon is given at 42,360. Tacitus declares that Jerusalem at its fall contained 600,000 persons; Josephus, that there were as many as 1,100,000 slain in the destruction of Jerusalem in AD 70, along with 97,000 who were sold as slaves. However, Josephus also qualifies this count, noting that Jerusalem was besieged during the Passover. The majority of the 1,197,000 would not have been residents of the city, but rather were visiting for the festival. These appear (writes Jacobs) to be all the figures accessible for ancient times, and their trustworthiness is a matter of dispute. 1,100,000 is comparable to the population of the largest cities that existed anywhere in the world before the 19th century, but geographically the Old City of Jerusalem is just a few per cent the size of such cities as ancient Rome, Constantinople, Edo period Tokyo and Han Dynasty Xi'an. The difficulties of commissariat in the Sinai desert for such a number as 3,000,000 have been pointed out by John William Colenso.\n\nIn the Bar Kokhba revolt of 132-135 AD 580,000 Jews were slain, according to Cassius Dio (lxix. 14). According to Theodor Mommsen, in the first century C.E. there were no fewer than 1,000,000 Jews in Egypt, in a total of 8,000,000 inhabitants; of these 200,000 lived in Alexandria, whose total population was 500,000. Adolf Harnack (\"Ausbreitung des Christentums\", Leipzig, 1902) reckons that there were 1,000,000 Jews in Syria (which included Lebanon) and the areas east of the Euphrates at the time of Nero in 60's AD, and 700,000 in Judea, and he allows for an additional 1,500,000 in other places, thus estimating that there were in the first century 4,200,000 Jews in the world. Jacobs remarks that this estimate is probably excessive.\n\nAs regards the number of Jews in the Middle Ages, Benjamin of Tudela, about 1170, enumerates altogether 1,049,565; but of these 100,000 are attributed to Persia and India, 100,000 to Arabia, and 300,000 to an undecipherable \"Thanaim\", obviously mere guesses with regard to the Eastern Jews, with whom he did not come in contact. There were at that time probably not many more than 500,000 in the countries he visited, and probably not more than 750,000 altogether. The only real data for the Middle Ages are with regard to special Jewish communities.\n\nThe Middle Ages were mainly a period of expulsions. In 1290, 16,000 Jews were expelled from England; in 1306, 100,000 from France; and in 1492, about 200,000 from Spain. Smaller but more frequent expulsions occurred in Germany, so that at the commencement of the 16th century only four great Jewish communities remained: Frankfurt, 2,000; Worms, 1,400; Prague, 10,000; and Vienna, 3,000 (Heinrich Grätz, \"Geschichte der Juden\" x. 29). Joseph Jacobs estimated that during the five centuries from 1000 to 1500, 380,000 Jews were killed during the persecutions, reducing the total number in the world to about 1,000,000. In the 16th and 17th centuries the main centers of Jewish population were in Poland and the Mediterranean countries, Spain excepted.\n\nBy the early 13th century, the world Jewish population had fallen to 2 million from a peak at 8 million during the 1st century possibly half this number, with only 250,000 of the 2 million living in Christian lands. Many factors had devastated the Jewish population, including the Bar Kokhba Revolt and the First Crusade.\n\nDutch researcher Adriaan Reland in 1714 published an account of his visit to the Land of Israel, then under Ottoman rule and belonging to various lesser provinces. In his informal census he relates the existence of significant Jewish populations throughout the country, particularly in Jerusalem, Tiberias, Safed and Gaza. Hebron also had a significant Jewish community. Together these communities formed what would be called the Old Yishuv.\n\nAgain following Jacobs, Jacques Basnage at the beginning of the 18th century estimated the total number of European Jews at 1,360,000, but according to a census at the First Partition of Poland in 1772, the Jews of the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth numbered 308,500. As these formed the larger part of the European Jews, it is doubtful whether the total number was more than 400,000 at the middle of the 18th century; and, counting those in the lands of Islam, the entire number in the world at that time could not have been much more than 1,000,000.\n\nAssuming that those numbers are reasonable, the increase in the next few centuries was remarkably rapid. It was checked in Germany by the laws limiting the number of Jews in special towns, and perhaps still more by overcrowding; Jacobs gives citations for there being 7,951 Jews at Prague in 1786 and 5,646 in 1843, and 2,214 at Frankfurt in 1811.\n\nChubinsky reports that in 1840 the Jews of southern Russia were accustomed to dwell thirteen in a house, whereas among the general population the average was only four to five (\"Globus\", 1880, p. 340). The rapid increase was undoubtedly due to the early age of marriage and the small number of deaths of infants in the stable communities. The chief details known for any length of time are for the Netherlands, Hungary, Poland, and Württemberg; \"see chart at right\".\n\nJacobs in the \"Jewish Encyclopedia\" presents some evidence that Jewish increase in this period may have exceeded that of the general population, but remarks also that such figures of increase are often very deceptive, as they may indicate not the natural increase by surplus of births over deaths, but accession by immigration. This applies especially to Germany during the early part of the 19th century, when Jews from Galicia and Poland seized every opportunity of moving westward. Arthur Ruppin, writing in the late 19th century, when forcible measures were taken to prevent Russian Jews from settling in Germany, showed that the growth of the Jewish population in Germany had almost entirely ceased, owing to a falling birth rate and, possibly, to emigration. Similarly, during this period, England and the United States showed notable Jewish immigration.\nThis growth in actual numbers was somewhat offset by conversion away from Judaism. While Halakha (Jewish law) says that a Jew who converts is still a Jew, in the climate of persecution that prevailed in much of Europe in this period, conversion tended to be accompanied by a repudiation of Jewish identity, and converts to Christianity generally ceased to be considered part of the Jewish community. The \"Jewish Encyclopedia\" gives some statistics on conversion of Jews to Protestantism, Roman Catholicism, Greek Catholicism and Orthodox Christianity. The upshot is that some 2,000 European Jews converted to Christianity every year during the 19th century, but that in the 1890s the number was running closer to 3,000 per year, — 1,000 in Austria-Hungary, 1,000 in Russia, 500 in Germany, and the remainder in the Anglo-Saxon world. Partly balancing this were about 500 converts to Judaism each year, mainly formerly Christian women who married Jewish men. For Russia, Galicia, and Romania, conversions were dwarfed by emigration: in the last quarter of the 19th century, probably 1,000,000 Jews from this area of Europe emigrated, primarily to the United States, but many also to the United Kingdom.\n\nToward the end of the 19th century, estimates of the number of Jews in the world ranged from about 6,200,000 (\"Encyclopædia Britannica\", 1881) to 10,932,777 (\"American Jewish Year Book\", 1904–1905). This can be compared with estimates of about half that number a mere 60 years earlier, though for comparison estimates of the total population of Europe show it also to have doubled between 1800 and 1900.\nThe \"Jewish Encyclopedia\" article on which this discussion is largely based estimates only 314,000 Sephardic Jews at the end of the 19th century. More recent scholarship tends to suggest that this estimate is low. The same source gives two wildly different estimate for the \"Falasha\", the Ethiopian Jews, variously estimating them at 50,000 and 200,000; the former would be comparable to their present-day population.\n\nIn 1939, the core Jewish population reached its historical peak of 17 million (0.8% of the global population). Because of the Holocaust, the number was reduced to 11 million in 1945. The population grew again to around 13 million by the 1970s, but has since recorded near-zero growth until around 2005 due to low fertility rates and to assimilation. Since 2005, the world's Jewish population has been growing modestly at a rate of around 0.78% (in 2013). This increase primarily reflects the rapid growth of Haredi and some Orthodox sectors, who are becoming a growing proportion of Jews.\n\na. Albania, Iraq, Jordan, Lebanon, Macedonia, Syria, Turkey\nb. Baltic states (Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania), Belarus, Moldova, Russia (including Siberia), Ukraine.\nc. Caucasus (Armenia, Azerbaijan, Georgia), Central Asia (Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, Uzbekistan).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34259242", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34259242", "title": "Islam in the Americas", "text": "Islam in the Americas\n\nIslam is a minority religion in all of the countries and territories of the Americas.\n\nSuriname has the highest percentage of Muslims in its population for the region, with 13.5% or 66,307 individuals, according to its 2004 census. However, the United States, in which estimates vary due to a lack of a census question, is generally believed to have the largest population, with between 1.3 and 2.7 million.\n\nSome West African slaves taken to the Americas by colonists may likely have been Muslims, although they became forcibly converted to Christianity. Most Muslims in the former British Caribbean came from the Indian subcontinent as labourers following the abolition of slavery. This movement also reached Suriname, although other Muslims there moved from another Dutch colony, which is now Indonesia. In the United States, the largest Muslim ethnic group is of African Americans, who converted in the last century, including the syncretic, radical and revisionist Nation of Islam. However, in South America, the Muslim population is mainly composed of wealthy immigrants from the Levant, including Lebanese and Syrians.\n\nShia Muslims comprise 15-20% of Muslims in the Americas. Nearly 786,000 Shia Muslims are situated on United States. The American Shia Muslim community are from different parts of the world such as South Asia, Europe, Middle East, and East Africa. They have many activities and have founded several organization such as the Islamic Center of America and North America Shia Ithna-Asheri Muslim Communities Organization (NASIMCO).\n\nThe population of Muslims varies across the Americas. Below is the percentage of every American country that was Muslim in 2010, according to a Pew Research Center estimate:\n\n"}
{"id": "5341568", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5341568", "title": "Jassa Singh Ahluwalia", "text": "Jassa Singh Ahluwalia\n\nJassa Singh Ahluwalia also known as Jassa Singh Ahluwalia (1 May 1718 – 1783) was a prominent Sikh leader during the period of the Sikh Confederacy. He was also Misldar of the Ahluwalia Misl. This period was an interlude, lasting roughly from the time of the death of Banda Bahadur in 1716 to the founding of the Sikh Empire in 1801. He founded the Kapurthala State in 1772.\n\nJassa Singh Ahluwalia was born at a village called Ahlu in the Lahore District of Punjab (modern day Pakistan).\n\nIn 1739, Nadir Shah, the Turkic ruler of Persia, invaded much of Northern India, including the Punjab, defeating the Mughals at the Battle of Karnal in 1739, he plundered the city of Delhi (Shahjahanabad) robbing it of treasures like the Peacock throne, the Kohinoor diamond and the Darya-i-noor diamond and either massacring or enslaving much of its population. Meanwhile, all the Khalsa bands got together and passed a resolution that Nadir shah had plundered the city of Delhi and now he is taking Indian women as slaves to his country. Sikhs made a plan to free all the slaves. Jassa Singh Ahluwalia was 21 years old at that time, he planned raids to free all slaves. He along with other Sikh bands attacked Nadir shah forces, freed all slaves and send those slaves back to their families safely.\n\nAhluwalia participated in many battles as well where he proved himself to be a natural leader. In a 1748 meeting of the Sarbat Khalsa Nawab Kapur Singh appointed him as his successor. His followers awarded him the title \"Sultan-ul-Qaum\" (King of the Nation). In 1758, he\ncirculated coins with inscription \"coined by the grace of Khalsa in the country of Ahmed, conquered by Jassa, the Kalal\"\n\nAhmed Shah Abdali, Nadir Shah's seniormost general, succeeded to the throne of Afghanistan, when Shah was murdered in June, 1747. He established his own dynasty, the Sadozai, which was the name of the Pashtun khel to which he belonged to.\n\nStarting from December, 1747 till 1769, Abdali made a total of nine incursions into the northwestern India. His repeated invasions destroyed the Mughal administration of the Punjab\nand the rest of Northwestern India. At the Third Battle of Panipat, he along with Nawab of Oudh and Rohillas, defeated the Marathas, who after treaty signed in 1752 became the protector of the Mughal throne at Delhi and were controlling much of North India, including Punjab and Kashmir.\nThus he created a power vacuum in the Punjab, which was filled by the Sikhs.\n\nOn 5 February 1762, the Sikhs were especially the target of Ahmad Shah Abdali's sixth invasion into India. News had reached him in Afghanistan of the defeat of his general, Nur-ud-Din Bamezai, at the hands of the Sikhs who were fast spreading themselves out over the Punjab and had declared their leader, Misldar Jassa Singh Ahluwalia, king of Lahore.To rid his Indian dominion of them once and for all, he set out from Kandahar. Marching with alacrity, he overtook the Sikhs as they were withdrawing into Malwa after crossing the Satluj.\n\nDespite the Ghalughara disaster, by the month of May, the Sikhs were up in arms again. Under Jassa Singh, they defeated the Afghan \"faujdar\" of Sirhind in the Battle of Harnaulgarh. By autumn, the Sikhs had regained enough confidence to foregather in large numbers at Amritsar to celebrate Diwali. Abdali made a mild effort to win over them and sent an envoy with proposals for a treaty of peace. The Sikhs were in no mood for peace and insulted the emissary. Abdali did not waste any time and turned up at the outskirts of Amritsar.\n\nThe Battle of Amritsar (1762) was fought in the grey light of a sun in total eclipse. It ended when the sunless day was blacked out by a moonless night with the adversaries retiring from the field: The Sikhs to the fastness of the jungles of the \"Lakhi\"(the forests of a hundred thousand trees located in Central Punjab) and Abdali behind the walled safety of Lahore.\n\nUntil now, the Sikh forces were divided into 65 \"jathas\" (bands). Baron Nawab Kapur Singh reorganised them into twelve bands, each of with its own name, flag and leader. These Armies or jathas, which came to known later on as Misls (literally \"equal\", also \"an example\") together were, however, given the name of the Dal Khalsa (or the Army of the Khalsa). Baron Jassa Singh Ahluwalia was nominated as the Supreme Commander of the Sikh Confederacy in addition to being Baron of the Ahluwalia Army (misl).\n\nNawab Jassa Singh Ahluwalia Government College (NJSA Government College) in Kapurthala, established in 1856 by Randhir Singh of Kaputhala is named after him. A commemorative postage stamp on Jassa Singh Ahluwalia was issued by Government of India on 4 April 1985.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55011295", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55011295", "title": "José Antonio Acosta", "text": "José Antonio Acosta\n\nJosé Antonio Acosta (18th century) was a Spanish Catholic priest, of outstanding performance during the Viceroyalty of Peru, serving in the holy charity of Buenos Aires. He also served as Rector of the Real Colegio de San Carlos between 1786 and 1792.\n\nAcosta was born in Buenos Aires, son of a Creole family of Portuguese and Spanish origin. He studied at the prestigious Colegio of Monserrat located in Córdoba. And he probably did his tertiary studies in University of Saint Francis Xavier.\n\nAcosta was an active defender of the rights of the underprivileged. In 1775, he denounced before the viceregal authorities, the abuses committed by the encomendero of the tribes of the Itatí, Corrientes. In 1790 Acosta served as an interim chaplain in Puerto Deseado (Patagonia). He also had outstanding acting as a teacher, serving in several periods as rector of the main College of Buenos Aires.\n\nAs a priest of the Cathedral of Buenos Aires, José Antonio Acosta realized the marriages and baptism of distinguished personalities of Buenos Aires, including the marriage of Patricio French de Alcala and Bernardina Manuela Dávila de Lafuente. He was the priest who had blessed to Juan Gregorio de las Heras, and Maria Josefa Anastacia Belgrano González, daughter of Domingo Belgrano and María Josefa González. He also baptized several members of the Basavilbaso family, one of the most important families of the city.\n"}
{"id": "175074", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=175074", "title": "Kali Yuga", "text": "Kali Yuga\n\nKali Yuga () is the last of the four stages (or ages or yugas) the world goes through as part of a 'cycle of yugas' (i.e. Mahayuga) described in the Sanskrit scriptures. The other ages are called Satya Yuga, Treta Yuga, and Dvapara Yuga.\n\nKali Yuga is associated with the demon Kali (not to be confused with the goddess Kālī). The \"Kali\" of Kali Yuga means \"strife\", \"discord\", \"quarrel\" or \"contention\".\n\nAccording to Puranic sources, Krishna's departure marks the end of Dvapara Yuga and the start of Kali Yuga, which is dated to 17/18 February 3102 BCE.\n\nAccording to the \"Surya Siddhanta\", Kali Yuga began at midnight (00:00) on 18 February 3102 BCE. \nThis is also considered the date on which Lord Krishna left the earth to return to Vaikuntha. This information is placed at the temple of Bhalka, the place of this incident (see photo). \nAccording to the astronomer and mathematician Aryabhatta the Kali Yuga started in 3102 BCE. He finished his book “Aryabhattiya” in 499 CE, in which he gives the exact year of the beginning of Kali Yuga. He writes that he wrote the book in the \"year 3600 of the Kali Age\" at the age of 23. As it was the 3600th year of the Kali Age when he was 23 years old, and given that Aryabhatta was born in 476 CE, the beginning of the Kali Yuga would come to (3600 - (476 + 23) + 1 (As only one year elapses between 1 BCE and 1 CE) = ) 3102 BCE.\n\nAccording to KD Abhyankar, the starting point of Kali Yuga is an extremely rare planetary alignment, which is depicted in the Mohenjo-Daro seals. Going by this alignment the year 3102 BCE is slightly off. The actual date for this alignment is February 7 of 3104 BCE. There is also sufficient proof to believe that Vrdhha Garga knew of precession at least by 500 BCE. Garga had calculated the rate of precession to within 30% of what the modern scholars estimate.\n\nMost interpreters of vedic scriptures, as Bhaktisiddhanta Sarasvati Goswami and his recent disciple Bhaktivedanta Swami Prabhupada believe that Earth is currently in Kali Yuga and lasts 432,000 years. Other authors, such as Swami Sri Yukteswar and Paramhansa Yogananda, believe that it is now an ascending Dvapara Yuga, indicating levels of cycles within each major Yuga period as each being a development, the smaller cycles within cycles eventually leading to full development of the qualities of the ages. The Kali Yuga is thought by some authors to last 6480 years although other durations have been proposed.\n\nHindus believe that human civilization degenerates spiritually during the Kali Yuga, which is referred to as the Dark Age because in it people are as far away as possible from God. Hinduism often symbolically represents morality (\"dharma\") as an Indian bull. In Satya Yuga, the first stage of development, the bull has four legs, but in each age morality is reduced by one quarter. By the age of Kali, morality is reduced to only a quarter of that of the golden age, so that the bull of Dharma has only one leg.\n\nThe Mahabharata War and the decimation of Kauravas thus happened at the \"Yuga-Sandhi\", the point of transition from one yuga to another. The scriptures mention Sage Narada to have momentarily intercepted the demon Kali on his way to the Earth when Duryodhana was about to be born in order to make him an embodiment of \"arishadvargas\" and \"adharma\" in preparation of the era of decay in values and the consequent havoc.\n\nA discourse by Markandeya in the Mahabharata identifies some of the attributes of Kali Yuga. \n\nIn relation to rulers, it lists:\n\nWith regard to human relationships, Markandeya's discourse says:\n\nThe Brahma Vaivarta Purana (related to Rathantara kalpa) mentions a ten thousand-year period, starting from the traditional dating of the Kali Yuga epoch, during which bhakti yogis will be present. Lord Krishna foretold that Kali Yuga will be full of extreme hardships for people with ideals and values.\n\nThe Brahma-vaivarta Purana has words spoken by Lord Krishna to Mother Ganga just before the beginning of the Kali Yuga (the age of quarrel and strife). The Kali Yuga began approximately five thousand years ago, and it has a duration of 432,000 years, leaving us with 427,000 years until the end of the present age. Within this 432,000 year period, there is a period of 10,000 years that will be peaceful. That golden age is being described below by Lord Sri Krishna. Predicted in Brahma-vaivarta Purana 4.129. The fourth part of the Brahma-vaivarta is called Kṛṣṇa-janma-khanda. Chapter 129 is called Golokarohanam, because it describes how Krishna returns to His abode. This specific dialogue is between Lord Krishna and Mother Ganga. Verse 49 is a question by Ganga, verses 50–60 are Lord Sri Krishna's answer.\n\nThis text is taken from the Brahma-vaivarta Purana [14]\n\nText 59:\n\nThe above is supported in 4.90.32–33:\n\nHence to protect ourself from Kaliman, it is believed that we should start doing japa, meditation, or any yoga such as Bhakti yoga, karma yoga, Raja yoga, and jnana yoga. But, chanting the holy name of God is the best path in Kali Yuga.\n\nKali is the reigning lord of Kali Yuga and his nemesis is Kalki, the tenth and final Avatar of Lord Vishnu. According to the Vishnu Purana, Kali is a negative manifestation working towards the cause of 'the end' or rather towards eventual rejuvenation of the universe. Kali also serves as an antagonistic force in the Kalki Purana. It is said that towards the end of this yuga, Kalki will return riding on a white horse to battle with Kali and his dark forces. The world will suffer a fiery cataclysm that will destroy all evil, and a new age (the next Satya Yuga of the following Mahayuga), will begin.\n\nSome Shaivites maintain that the ill effects of Kali Yuga can only be moderated by the manifestation of Lord Shiva Himself. Shastriji, one of the followers of Haidakhan Babaji, gave the following narration:\n\n\"Once Parvati asked Lord Shiva, her husband: 'You have done good work for the people in all ages, but I am afraid for the people in the Kali Yuga; how will they safeguard themselves?'\nThen Lord Shiva told Parvati: 'I will appear in the Kali Yuga and I will create a new state, a new centre of religion - a most important place, where I will live and establish all the Gods there.'\"\n\nShastriji went further to suggest that this promise manifested through the person of Haidakhan Babaji. One of the central tenets of Haidakhan Babaji's teachings is the message of Karma Yoga or hard work. In the context of Kali yuga Haidakhan Babaji explained:\n\n\"As I have told you before, the thing needed in this Age is work (karma). In every Age people have reached salvation through different types of action and sadhana (spiritual discipline), but in this Age one can reach liberation only through hard work. I want real, practical human beings and only he is a true human being who lives in accordance with this Age. We need not consider religion or caste, but look only to hard work.\"\n\nIn Sikhism, Kali Yuga is metaphorically used to describe the state of the world as was commonly understood in the 16th century. It is stressed that one should meditate as much as possible to reach the state of Nirvana and be liberated or be one with God. Guru Granth Sahib Ji on Ang:1185 says:\n\nThe Kali Yuga is an important concept in both Theosophy and Anthroposophy , and in the writings of Helena Blavatsky, W.Q. Judge, Rudolf Steiner, and fascist ideologues such as René Guénon and Julius Evola, among others. Rudolf Steiner believed that the Kali Yuga ended in 1900. The traditionalists describe modern Western civilization as being in its Kali Yuga phase, in a state of degeneration and eventual collapse.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58945226", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58945226", "title": "Karapuranathar Temple", "text": "Karapuranathar Temple\n\nThe Karapuranathar temple is one of the ancient temples in Salem District of Tamil Nadu in India. The main deity is Lord Shiva in lingasorubam. The temple is located near west bank of river Thirumanimutharu at Uthamacholapuram in Salem.\n\nThe lingum is suyambu (Nobady implant the lingam). The Temple history is over 1200 years ago. The meaning of Karapuranathar in tamil கரபுரநாதர்.Karai-Riverbank, Puram-place, Nather-Lord. In other hand some scholar told the lord shiva called Karapuranathar the name driverd for Karadhushan was pray shiva, the lord test his devotional. He didn't get prize so he was burning himself for showing his great devotional the lord stop his burn and gave boom. During sangam era in south India was ruled by many small kings. Who's were all to pay tax to The Three Emperors of South India (Cholas, Pandyas, Cheras) and The small Kings were controlled by their Kingdom. In that time one of the small king of south india Vēl Pāri is described as the master of the hill country of Parambu nādu and held sway over 300 prosperous villages. Pari patronized various forms of art, literature and bards thronged his court. Parambu nadu consisted of parts of modern-day Tamil Nadu and Kerala stretching from Piranmalai in Sivaganga district, Tamil Nadu to Nedungadi in Palakkad district, Kerala. His favorite was poet Kapilar who was his close friend and lifelong companion. From Purananuru, song 107 by Kapilar. Pari planned war against to The Three emperors. Unfortunately Malaimanpari was defeated and killed by the great powerful armies of the three emperors. Malaimanpari's two daughters Angavai and Sangavai were saved by the king's friend and royal Poet of his kingdom Kapilar. \nKapilar asked many kings to marry off their sons to Malaimanpari's daughters. But nobody would come to marry Pari's daughters, they avoided Kapilar's request. Because of fear about the three emperors of South India. The Kings won't like to break emperors relationship.\n\nAvvaiyar was a great ancient female poet who was a mutual friend of Kabilar and the three kings. So Kapilar requested Avvaiyar \nto save Pari's daughters. She accepted his request and give honor to Pari Kapilar friendship. The death of his friend Pāri affected Kabilar and he later took his own life by \"vadakirrutal\", one of the Tamil ways of committing suicide. He sat facing north and starved himself to death in Kabilar Kundru.\n\nIn the temple Pāri's daughters were married to the son of Malaiyamān Thirumudi Kāri with three grown King's acceptance by Avvaiyar\n\nThe three crown Kings are cholas, Pandiya and cheras. The chola king was staying in Uthamacholopuram. The Pandiya king was staying in Virapandy near the temple. The chera king was staying in Salem in order to attend Angavai, Sangavai's marriage. The three kings were blessing the bridegrooms.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "425567", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425567", "title": "Lares Familiares", "text": "Lares Familiares\n\nLares Familiares (\"Family Guardians\" in Latin) were household tutelary deities of ancient Roman religion. The singular form is \"Lar Familiaris\".\n\nThe \"Lar Familiaris\" was a domestic guardian spirit who cared for the welfare and prosperity of a household. A household's \"lararium\", a shrine to the Lar Familiaris, usually stood near the hearth or in a corner of the atrium. A lararium often had the appearance of a cupboard or a niche containing a small statue, a niche painted on a wall, or a small freestanding shrine. Sometimes the Genius of the head of the household, pictured as a bearded or crested snake, or as a man with the fold of his toga covering his head, is depicted with the Lar.\n\nReferences to domestic religious practice often pair the Lares together with the Penates. Penates, although also domestic guardian spirits, were more specifically protectors of the master of the household and his immediate family. The Lar Familiaris, on the other hand, protected all household members, free or slave, and was associated with a particular place, thus did not accompany a family who moved. Tradition holds that a family's Lar would generously help those who honored him by devotionals and sacrifices, but would turn his back to those who would not offer him thanks or neglected him.\n\nA story about these spirits occurs in the \"Aulularia\" of Plautus (Lines 1-36). In the tale, a grandfather begs his Lar to hide the family gold, so the Lar buries it in the hearth. When the grandfather dies, the Lar did not show the son where the gold was hidden because the son had never remembered to honor the Lar. The Lar kept the gold hidden until Euclio, the man's grandson, had a daughter who was ready for marriage, yet hadn't enough money for a dowry. Euclio, a dreadful miser, also neglected the Lar. But his daughter was of a more pious disposition, and had become pregnant by a man whose name she did not know. So the spirit sets in motion a complicated chain of events whereby Euclio finds the gold, but ultimately sees the error of his miserly ways and bestows it upon his daughter for a dowry. Plautus describes the Lar Familiaris as a young, slender figure clad in high boots, short tunic, and a belted undergarment. Garlands adorn his head, and he is lithe, graceful, and nimble.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21335524", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21335524", "title": "León Klenicki", "text": "León Klenicki\n\nRabbi León Klenicki (September 7, 1930 – January 25, 2009) was an advocate for interfaith relations, particularly between Jews and Catholics. He served as interfaith director of the Anti-Defamation League. He also served as director of the Latin American office of the World Union for Progressive Judaism.\n\nKlenicki was born on September 7, 1930 in Buenos Aires, Argentina to parents who had emigrated from Poland in the 1920s. While attending the University of Buenos Aires in 1959, Klenicki was awarded a scholarship to Hebrew Union College in Cincinnati. He was graduated from the University of Cincinnati with a bachelor's degree in philosophy and received a master's degree and rabbinical diploma marking his ordination in 1967 from Hebrew Union College.\n\nThe theses he prepared for both his bachelor's degree and for his rabbinical degree were on the subject of interfaith dialogue. As the director of the Latin American office of the World Union for Progressive Judaism, at a conference of Jewish and Catholic leaders held in Bogotá, Colombia in 1968, the first official gathering of Jewish and Catholic leaders in Latin America, Rabbi Klenicki told the audience that nearly two thousand years of history had divided the two religions during which \"cathedrals were raised to the sky while Jews had to go underground\" while suffering persecution at the hands of Christians, but that \"The time of hope has arrived. The task is hard, but not impossible\".\n\nRabbi Klenicki was named as director of Jewish-Catholic relations in 1973 by the Anti-Defamation League and was appointed as director of interfaith affairs in 1984 serving in that role until 2001.\n\nUnder Pope John Paul II, the Vatican published \"\" in 1998, a document which condemned Nazi genocide and called for repentance from Catholics who had failed to intercede to stop it, urging Catholics to repent \"of past errors and infidelities\" and \"renew the awareness of the Hebrew roots of their faith\" while distinguishing between the Church's \"anti-Judaism\" as religious teaching and the murderous anti-Semitism of Nazi Germany which it described as having \"roots outside Christianity.\" Rabbi Klenicki called the document \"a salad\" which was important in describing the Holocaust and insisting that it never be forgotten, noting that \"the deniers of the Holocaust in Europe now have to deal with the Vatican\", but which missed an opportunity for \"a reckoning of the soul\" by the Vatican.\n\nAs director of interfaith affairs for the Anti-Defamation League and its co-liaison to the Vatican, Rabbi Klenicki was an important voice of American Judaism over the four decades of improving Catholic-Jewish relations after the Second Vatican Council.\n\nEugene J. Fisher, then associate director of the U.S. Bishops' Committee for Ecumenical and Interreligious Affairs of the National Conference of Catholic Bishops recalled a 1987 meeting with Pope John Paul II attended by Catholic and Jewish leaders, in which Rabbi Klenicki \"was able to express concerns very directly, without unnecessary rhetorical negatives\" regarding the Pope's meeting with Kurt Waldheim.\n\nAs part of his efforts at interfaith dialogue, Rabbi Klenicki assisted the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Philadelphia in preparing a booklet that explained Christian history and theology to Jews, and developed with the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Chicago a Passover Haggadah intended for use by Catholics participating with Jews at a seder or who wanted to experience the seder as Jesus did.\n\nIn 2000, he was critical of the document Dominus Iesus, and called it \"a step backwards in the dialogue relationship\".\n\nRabbi Klenicki met with Pope Benedict XVI at the Vatican in 2005, in the new pope's first meeting with Jewish leaders. In 2007, Rabbi Klenicki was named a Papal Knight of the Order of St. Gregory the Great by Pope Benedict XVI, a recognition granted to Catholic men and women (and in rare cases, non-Catholics) in recognition of their service to the Church, unusual labors, support of the Holy See, and the good example set in their communities and country.\n\nHe died at age 78 on January 25, 2009, at his home in Monroe Township, Middlesex County, New Jersey, of cancer. He was survived by his wife, Myra Cohen Klenicki; two children from a marriage to Ana Dimsitz that ended in divorce; a grandson and a brother.\n"}
{"id": "9891276", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9891276", "title": "List of Bible translations by language", "text": "List of Bible translations by language\n\nUnited Bible Societies reported that the Bible, in whole or part, has been translated in more than 3,324 languages (including an increasing number of sign languages), including complete Old or New Testaments in 2,189 languages, and the complete text of the Bible (Protestant canon) in 674 languages, by the end of December 2017. \n\nAccording to Wycliffe Bible Translators, in October 2017, 3,312 languages had access to at least a book of the Bible, including 1,121 languages with a book or more, 1,521 language groups with access to the New Testament in their native language and 670 the full Bible. It is estimated by Wycliffe Bible Translators that translation may be required in 1,636 languages where no work is currently known to be in progress. They also estimate that there are currently around 2,584 languages which have active Bible translation projects (with or without some portion already published).\n\nThere are currently over 1,700 versions in over 1,200 languages available digitally on bible.com and a similar number on the American Bible Society's bibles.org.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1753736", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1753736", "title": "List of Catholic churches in Singapore", "text": "List of Catholic churches in Singapore\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35080325", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35080325", "title": "List of Catholic dioceses in New Zealand", "text": "List of Catholic dioceses in New Zealand\n\nThe Roman Catholic Church in New Zealand is composed of one ecclesiastical province with 5 suffragan dioceses.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1273845", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1273845", "title": "List of Catholic dioceses in the United States", "text": "List of Catholic dioceses in the United States\n\nThis list of the Catholic dioceses and archdioceses of the United States which includes both the dioceses of the Latin Church, which employ the Latin liturgical rites, and various other dioceses, primarily the eparchies of the Eastern Catholic Churches, which employ various Eastern Christian rites, and which are in full communion with the Pope in Rome. The Roman Catholic Archdiocese for the Military Services, USA is not a metropolitan diocese. The Personal Ordinariate of the Chair of Saint Peter was established on January 1, 2012 for former Anglicans who join the Catholic Church.\nThe Catholic Church has a total of 197 particular churches — consisting of 32 territorial archdioceses, 145 territorial dioceses, the Archdiocese for the Military Services, USA (serving members of the US Armed Forces and Diplomatic Corps, and those in facilities of the Veterans Administration and their dependents), and the Personal Ordinariate of the Chair of Saint Peter (serving Catholics who were formerly Anglicans) within the Roman Rite; and two archieparchies and 16 eparchies in the Eastern Catholic Churches — in the 50 United States and the US Virgin Islands. The pastor of any particular church other than an ordinariate must be episcopally ordained, but his title conforms to that of his jurisdiction: the pastor of an archdiocese is an archbishop, the pastor of a diocese is a bishop, the pastor of an archieparchy is an archieparch, the pastor of an eparchy is an eparch, and the pastor of an exarchate is an exarch. The pastor of an ordinariate, titled the \"ordinary\" (which is a term also used generically for the pastor of any particular church), may be either a bishop if celibate, or a presbyter (priest) if married, but he holds the same power of governance of his ordinariate that a bishop has of his diocese in either case; Pope Benedict XVI deliberately instituted this provision to permit married, former Anglican bishops who come into full communion with the Catholic Church along with many of their congregants to accede to office while respecting sensitivities in ecumenical relations with the Eastern Orthodox Churches, which also maintain a celibate episcopacy. The pastor of each particular church is, \"ex officio\", a full member of the United States Conference of Catholic Bishops (USCCB). Auxiliary and retired bishops are also members of the Conference but have no vote.\n\nIn the United States, each archbishop is also the metropolitan bishop of an ecclesiastical province that encompasses several adjacent dioceses. Likewise, each archieparch is also the metropolitan of an ecclesiastical province that encompasses all of the eparchies of the same \"sui iuris\" particular church in the United States. Most provincial and diocesan boundaries conform to state, county, borough (in Alaska), or parish (in Louisiana) political boundaries. The \"sui iuris\" Ukrainian Greek Catholic Church in the US has an ecclesiastical province consisting of an archieparchy and three eparchies, and the \"sui iuris\" Ruthenian Greek Catholic Church has an ecclesiastical province consisting of an archieparchy and three eparchies; the boundaries of these jurisdictions also generally conform to those of states. Most of the remaining eparchies are national in territory, but two particular churches, namely the Armenian Catholic Eparchy of Our Lady of Nareg in the United States and Canada and the Personal Ordinariate of the Chair of Saint Peter, are international, encompassing all of the United States and Canada; their pastors also are \"ex officio\" members of the Canadian Conference of Catholic Bishops (CCCB).\n\nThere are several other dioceses whose territories cover the Nation's unincorporated territories. Puerto Rico has one ecclesiastical province comprising an archdiocese and five dioceses, which together form the Puerto Rican Episcopal Conference, which is separate from the United States Conference of Catholic Bishops. The dioceses that encompass American Samoa, the Northern Mariana Islands, and Guam are part of the Episcopal Conference of the Pacific.\n\nIn the Roman Rite, (arch)dioceses customarily take the name of the city of the (arch)bishop's cathedra, denominated the \"see\". A few dioceses bear the names of two cities, variously reflecting a shift in the major center of population, e.g., the Archdiocese of Galveston-Houston; future plan to divide a diocese, e.g., the former Diocese of Reno-Las Vegas; union of two former dioceses, e.g., the Diocese of Kansas City-St. Joseph; political expedience, e.g., the Archdiocese of St. Paul and Minneapolis; or a perceived need for some episcopal functions to be accessible to residents of another part of the diocesan territory, e.g., the Diocese of Altoona-Johnstown. Some of the \"sui iuris\" particular churches also follow this custom, while others denominated their jurisdictions after saints or other religious titles.\n\nIn the Catholic Church, there are many bishops who do not govern dioceses:\n\n\nWhen a diocese is suppressed or when the diocesan see is transferred to another location, the title of the former see becomes available for assignment to a titular bishop or, in the case of an archdiocese, a titular archbishop or an archbishop \"ad personam\". The Vatican resurrected the names of many former sees of the United States in the 1990s, as indicated by the table of former dioceses toward the end of this article.\n\nMembers of the Armed Forces of the United States and their dependents, employees of the US Veterans Health Administration and its patients, and Americans in civil service overseas, including the Nation's diplomatic corps and their dependents, both Catholics of the Latin Church and Eastern Churches, are served by the Archdiocese for the Military Services, USA. An archbishop leads it who is presently assisted by four auxiliary bishops. Its status as an \"archdiocese\" is merely honorary. In 1986, Pope John Paul II amended the juridical organization of military chaplaincies from \"military vicariates\" to \"military ordinariates\", the head of which was likened to a diocesan bishop. The Ordinary of the Archdiocese of the Military Services is usually granted the personal title of \"Archbishop\", although this is not a requisite of the office.\n\nProvince of Philadelphia (Ukrainian)\n\nThe Ukrainian Greek Catholic Church in the United States is organized into a metropolia (province) comprising a metropolitan archeparchy and three suffragan eparchies.\n\nProvince of Pittsburgh (Ruthenian)\n\nThe Ruthenian Greek Catholic Church in the United States is organized into the \"sui iuris\" Province of Pittsburgh, consisting of a metropolitan archeparchy and three suffragan eparchies. The eparchies also serve the faithful of other Byzantine Catholic Churches without established hierarchies in the United States, namely those of the Albanian, Belarusian, Bulgarian, Croatian, Greek, Hungarian, Italo-Albanian, Macedonian, Russian, and Slovakian Byzantine Catholic Churches.\n\nEastern Catholic eparchies immediately subject to the Holy See\n\nThe following particular Eastern Catholic Churches are not suffragan to metropolitan sees, but are instead exempt and therefore immediately subject to the Holy See, while they still remain part of their respective patriarchal, major archiepiscopal, or other rite- and tradition-specific particular churches.\n\nUnder the provisions of \"Anglicanorum Coetibus\" of 2009, an effort was underway to establish a personal ordinariate, or diocese, in the United States. The ordinariate was formed for former Anglicans, including members from the Episcopal Church, Continuing Anglican churches, and Anglican Use parishes. The world's first such ordinariate is the Personal Ordinariate of Our Lady of Walsingham of England and Wales. The personal ordinariate for the United States, the Personal Ordinariate of the Chair of Saint Peter, was instituted on January 1, 2012 in accordance with \"Anglicanorum Coetibus\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10274313", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10274313", "title": "List of Shinto shrines in the United States", "text": "List of Shinto shrines in the United States\n\n"}
{"id": "54547262", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54547262", "title": "List of mosques in Uzbekistan", "text": "List of mosques in Uzbekistan\n\nThis is a list of mosques in Uzbekistan.\n\n"}
{"id": "23546502", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23546502", "title": "List of non-Arab Sahabah", "text": "List of non-Arab Sahabah\n\nThe list of non-Arab Sahaba includes non-Arabs among the original Sahaba of the Islamic prophet Muhammad. Muhammad had many followers from amongst the Arabs, from many different tribes. However, he also had many non-Arab Sahaba, from many different ethnicities. Some of these non-Arabs were among the most beloved and loyal individuals to Muhammad. The inclusion of these non-Arabs among the original followers of Muhammad and Islam represents the universality of the message of Islam.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19820", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19820", "title": "Magick (Thelema)", "text": "Magick (Thelema)\n\nMagick, in the context of Aleister Crowley's Thelema, is a term used to show and differentiate the occult from performance magic and is defined as \"the Science and Art of causing Change to occur in conformity with Will\", including both \"mundane\" acts of will as well as ritual magic. Crowley wrote that \"it is theoretically possible to cause in any object any change of which that object is capable by nature\". John Symonds and Kenneth Grant attach a deeper occult significance to this preference.\n\nCrowley saw Magick as the essential method for a person to reach true understanding of the self and to act according to one's true will, which he saw as the reconciliation \"between freewill and destiny.\" Crowley describes this process in his \"Magick, Book 4\":\n\nThe term itself is an Early Modern English spelling for \"magic\", used in works such as the 1651 translation of Heinrich Cornelius Agrippa's \"De Occulta Philosophia\", \"Three Books of Occult Philosophy, or Of Magick\". Aleister Crowley chose the spelling to differentiate his practices and rituals from stage magic and the term has since been re-popularised by those who have adopted elements of his teachings.\n\nCrowley defined Magick as \"the science and art of causing change to occur in conformity with will.\" He goes on to elaborate on this, in one postulate, and twenty eight theorems. His first clarification on the matter is that of a postulate, in which he states \"ANY required change may be effected by the application of the proper kind and degree of Force in the proper manner, through the proper medium to the proper object.\" He goes on further to state:\n\nCrowley made many theories for the paranormal effects of Magick; however, as magicians and mystics had done before him and continue to do after him, Crowley dismissed such effects as useless:\n\nEven so, Crowley recognized that paranormal effects and magical powers have some level of value for the individual:\n\nThere are several ways to view what Magick is. Again, at its most broad, it can be defined as any willed action leading to intended change. It can also be seen as the general set of methods used to accomplish the Great Work of mystical attainment. At the practical level, Magick most often takes several practices and forms of ritual, including banishing, invocation and evocation, eucharistic ritual, consecration and purification, astral travel, yoga, sex magic, and divination.\n\nThe professed purpose of banishing rituals is to eliminate forces that might interfere with a magical operation, and they are often performed at the beginning of an important event or ceremony (although they can be performed for their own sake as well). The area of effect can be a magick circle, a room, or the magician himself. The general theory of Magick proposes that there are various forces which are represented by the classical elements (air, earth, fire, and water), the planets, the signs of the Zodiac, and adjacent spaces in the astral world. Magick also proposes that various spirits and non-corporeal intelligences can be present. Banishings are performed in order to \"clean out\" these forces and presences. It is not uncommon to believe that banishings are more psychological than anything else, used to calm and balance the mind, but that the effect is ultimately the same—a sense of cleanliness within the self and the environment. There are many banishing rituals, but most are some variation on two of the most common—\"The Star Ruby\" and the Lesser Banishing Ritual of the Pentagram.\n\nCrowley describes banishing in his \"Magick, Book 4\" (ch.13):\n\nHowever, he further asserts:\n\nPurification is similar in theme to banishing, but is a more rigorous process of preparing the self and her temple for serious spiritual work. Crowley mentions that ancient magicians would purify themselves through arduous programs, such as through special diets, fasting, sexual abstinence, keeping the body meticulously tidy, and undergoing a complicated series of prayers. He goes on to say that purification no longer requires such activity, since the magician can purify the self via willed intention. Specifically, the magician labors to purify the mind and body of all influences which may interfere with the Great Work:\n\nCrowley recommended symbolically ritual practices, such as bathing and robing before a main ceremony: \"The bath signifies the removal of all things extraneous or antagonistic to the one thought. The putting on of the robe is the positive side of the same operation. It is the assumption of the frame of mind suitable to that one thought.\"\n\nConsecration is an equally important magical operation. It is essentially the dedication, usually of a ritual instrument or space, to a specific purpose. In \"Magick, Book 4\" (ch.13), Crowley writes:\n\nInvocation is the bringing in or identifying with a particular deity or spirit. Crowley wrote of two keys to success in this arena: to \"inflame thyself in praying\" and to \"invoke often\". For Crowley, the single most important invocation, or any act of Magick for that matter, was the invocation of one's Holy Guardian Angel, or \"secret self\", which allows the adept to know his or her True Will.\n\nCrowley describes the experience of invocation:\n\nCrowley (\"Magick, Book 4\") discusses three main categories of invocation, although \"in the great essentials these three methods are one. In each case the magician identifies himself with the Deity invoked.\"\n\n\nAnother invocatory technique that the magician can employ is called the \"assumption of godforms\"—where with \"concentrated imagination of oneself in the symbolic shape of any God, one should be able to identify oneself with the idea which [the god] represents.\" A general method involves positioning the body in a position that is typical for a given god, imagining that the image of the god is coinciding with or enveloping the body, accompanied by the practice of \"vibration\" of the appropriate god-name(s).\n\nThere is a distinct difference between invocation and evocation, as Crowley explains:\n\nGenerally, evocation is used for two main purposes: to gather information and to obtain the services or obedience of a spirit or demon. Crowley believed that the most effective form of evocation was found in the grimoire on Goetia (see below), which instructs the magician in how to safely summon forth and command 72 infernal spirits. However, it is equally possible to evoke angelic beings, gods, and other intelligences related to planets, elements, and the Zodiac.\n\nUnlike with invocation, which involves a calling in, evocation involves a calling forth, most commonly into what is called the \"triangle of art.\"\n\n\nThe word \"eucharist\" originally comes from the Greek word for thanksgiving. However, within Magick, it takes on a special meaning—the transmutation of ordinary things (usually food and drink) into divine sacraments, which are then consumed. The object is to infuse the food and drink with certain properties, usually embodied by various deities, so that the adept takes in those properties upon consumption. Crowley describes the process of the regular practice of eucharistic ritual:\n\nThere are several eucharistic rituals within the magical canon. Two of the most well known are The Mass of the Phoenix and The Gnostic Mass. The first is a ritual designed for the individual, which involves sacrificing a \"Cake of Light\" (a type of bread that serves as the host) to Ra (i.e. the Sun) and infusing a second Cake with the adept's own blood (either real or symbolic, in a gesture reflecting the myth of the Pelican cutting its own breast to feed its young) and then consuming it with the words, \"There is no grace: there is no guilt: This is the Law: Do what thou wilt!\" The other ritual, The Gnostic Mass, is a very popular public ritual (although it can be practiced privately) that involves a team of participants, including a Priest and Priestess. This ritual is an enactment of the mystical journey that culminates with the Mystic Marriage and the consumption of a Cake of Light and a goblet of wine (a process termed \"communication\"). Afterwards, each Communicant declares, \"There is no part of me that is not of the gods!\"\n\nYoga, as Crowley interprets it, involves several key components. The first is Asana, which is the assumption (after eventual success) of any easy, steady and comfortable posture so as to maintain a good physique which complements the high level of enlightenment that meditation is accompanied with. Next is Pranayama, which is the control of breath. Yogis believe that the number of breaths a human takes are counted before one is even born and thus, by controlling the intake one may also be able to control the life. Mantram, the use of mantras enables the subject to use the knowledge of the Vedas \"Atharva Veda\" in this context adequately. Yama and Niyama are the adopted moral or behavioral codes (of the adept's choosing) that will be least likely to excite the mind. Pratyahara is the stilling of the thoughts so that the mind becomes quiet. Dharana is the beginning of concentration, usually on a single shape, like a triangle, which eventually leads to Dhyana, the loss of distinction between object and subject, which can be described as the annihilation of the ego (or sense of a separate self). The final stage is Samādhi—Union with the All; it is considered to be the utmost level of awareness that one could possibly achieve. According to Hindu mythology, one of their main three deities, Shiva, had mastered this and thus was bestowed upon with stupendous power and control.\n\nThe art of divination is generally employed for the purpose of obtaining information that can guide the adept in his Great Work. The underlying theory states that there exists intelligences (either outside of or inside the mind of the diviner) that can offer accurate information within certain limits using a language of symbols. Normally, divination within Magick is not the same as fortune telling, which is more interested in predicting future events. Rather, divination tends to be more about discovering information about the nature and condition of things that can help the magician gain insight and to make better decisions.\n\nThere are literally hundreds of different divinatory techniques in the world. However, Western occult practice mostly includes the use of astrology (calculating the influence of heavenly bodies), bibliomancy (reading random passages from a book, such as Liber Legis or the I Ching), tarot (a deck of 78 cards, each with symbolic meaning, usually laid out in a meaningful pattern), and geomancy (a method of making random marks on paper or in earth that results in a combination of sixteen patterns).\n\nIt is an accepted truism within Magick that divination is imperfect. As Crowley writes, \"In estimating the ultimate value of a divinatory judgment, one must allow for more than the numerous sources of error inherent in the process itself. The judgment can do no more than the facts presented to it warrant. It is naturally impossible in most cases to make sure that some important factor has not been omitted [...] One must not assume that the oracle is omniscient.\"\n\nThe Tree of Life is a tool used to categorize and organize various mystical concepts. At its most simple level, it is composed of ten spheres, or emanations, called sephiroth (sing. \"sephira\") which are connected by twenty two paths. The sephiroth are represented by the planets and the paths by the characters of the Hebrew alphabet, which are subdivided by the four classical elements, the seven classical planets, and the twelve signs of the Zodiac. Within the western magical tradition, the Tree is used as a kind of conceptual filing cabinet. Each sephira and path is assigned various ideas, such as gods, cards of the Tarot, astrological planets and signs, elements, etc.\n\nCrowley considered a deep understanding of the Tree of Life to be essential to the magician:\n\nSimilar to yoga, learning the Tree of Life is not so much Magick as it is a way to map out one's spiritual universe. As such, the adept may use the Tree to determine a destination for astral travel, to choose which gods to invoke for what purposes, et cetera. It also plays an important role in modeling the spiritual journey, where the adept begins in Malkuth, which is the every-day material world of phenomena, with the ultimate goal being at Kether, the sphere of Unity with the All.\n\nA magical record is a journal or other source of documentation containing magical events, experiences, ideas, and any other information that the magician may see fit to add. There can be many purposes for such a record, such as recording evidence to verify the effectiveness of specific procedures (per the scientific method that Aleister Crowley claimed should be applied to the practice of Magick) or to ensure that data may propagate beyond the lifetime of the magician. Benefits of this process vary, but usually include future analysis and further education by the individual and/or associates with whom the magician feels comfortable in revealing such intrinsically private information.\n\nCrowley was highly insistent upon the importance of this practice. As he writes in Liber E, \"It is absolutely necessary that all experiments should be recorded in detail during, or immediately after, their performance ... The more scientific the record is, the better. Yet the emotions should be noted, as being some of the conditions. Let then the record be written with sincerity and care; thus with practice it will be found more and more to approximate to the ideal.\" Other items he suggests for inclusion include the physical and mental condition of the experimenter, the time and place, and environmental conditions, including the weather.\n\nAs with Magick itself, a \"magical weapon\" is any instrument used to bring about intentional change. As Crowley writes, \"Illustration: It is my Will to inform the World of certain facts within my knowledge. I therefore take \"magical weapons\", pen, ink, and paper ... The composition and distribution of this book is thus an act of Magick by which I cause Changes to take place in conformity with my Will.\" With that said, in practice, magical weapons are usually specific, consecrated items used within ceremonial magic. There is no hard and fast rule for what is or isn't a magical weapon—if a magician considers it such a weapon, then it is. However, there does exist a set of magical weapons that have particular uses and symbolic meanings. Common weapons include the dagger (or athame in neopagan parlance), sword, wand, holy oil, cup (or graal), disk (or pentacle), oil lamp, bell, and thurible (or censer).\n\nA magical formula is generally a name, word, or series of letters whose meaning illustrates principles and degrees of understanding that are often difficult to relay using other forms of speech or writing. It is a concise means to communicate very abstract information through the medium of a word or phrase, usually regarding a process of spiritual or mystical change. Common formulae include INRI, IAO, ShT, AUMGN, NOX, and LVX.\n\nThese words often have no intrinsic meaning in and of themselves. However, when deconstructed, each individual letter may refer to some universal concept found in the system that the formula appears. Additionally, in grouping certain letters together one is able to display meaningful sequences that are considered to be of value to the spiritual system that utilizes them (e.g. spiritual hierarchies, historiographic data, psychological stages, etc.)\n\nIn magical rituals involving the invocation of deities, a vocal technique called \"vibration\" is commonly used. This was a basic aspect of magical training for Crowley, who described it in \"Liber O.\" According to that text, vibration involves a physical set of steps, starting in a standing position, breathing in through the nose while imagining the name of the god entering with the breath, imagining that breath travelling through the entire body, stepping forward with the left foot while throwing the body forward with arms outstretched, visualizing the name rushing out when spoken, ending in an upright stance, with the right forefinger placed upon the lips. According to Crowley in \"Liber O\", success in this technique is signaled by physical exhaustion and \"though only by the student himself is it perceived, when he hears the name of the God vehemently roared forth, as if by the concourse of ten thousand thunders; and it should appear to him as if that Great Voice proceeded from the Universe, and not from himself.\"\n\nIn general ritual practice, \"vibration\" can also refer to a technique of saying a god-name or a magical formula in a long, drawn-out fashion (i.e. with a full, deep breath) that employs the nasal passages, such that the sound feels and sounds \"vibrated'. This is known as Galdering.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17504697", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17504697", "title": "Mara (Tagin)", "text": "Mara (Tagin)\n\nMara (also known as Mura) refers to a tribe in Arunachal Pradesh. The Mara are ethnically Tagin although they claim to be a separate group, just like the Nga to the north, but they acknowledge a common ancestry. Like the Nga, the Mara also engage in barter trade with the Tibetans in the north prior to the closure of the Indo-Tibetan border in view of the 1962 Sino-Indian War. They traded ornaments, Tibetan dao from the Tibetans in the north and Mithun, tribal masks, animal hides and dyes of plants from the Nishi and Sulung on the south.\n\nThe Mara inhabit in Limeking in Upper Subansiri, just south of Taksing which is inhabited by the Nga. The Mara believed that they were descended from two brothers, Kangra and Mara, who came from Nyime (Tibet) and settled in the region. Like other Tagins, the Mara subscribe to the Donyi Polo faith but have come under considerable Tibetan Buddhist influence as a result of centuries of interactions with the Tibetans in the north.\n"}
{"id": "34563481", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34563481", "title": "Masnat", "text": "Masnat\n\nMasnat is a piece of embroidered velvet cloth used by Royals of Mughal, Qutb Shahi, Asaf Jahis etc. It is also used during Muslim weddings. It is hand woven with shimmering zari on a velvet cloth. The rulers use to proclaim their orders sitting on a masnat.\n"}
{"id": "2072620", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2072620", "title": "Natalvar", "text": "Natalvar\n\nThe word Natalvar in Tamil means 'The ones who rule the country'. This is the name given to the Santror by Thirumal according to Ayyavazhi mythology.\n\n"}
{"id": "3015927", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3015927", "title": "Occult detective fiction", "text": "Occult detective fiction\n\nOccult detective fiction combines the tropes of detective fiction with those of supernatural horror fiction. Unlike the traditional detective, the occult detective is employed in cases involving ghosts, curses, and other supernatural elements. Some occult detectives are portrayed as being themselves psychic or in possession of other paranormal powers.\n\nEdgar Allan Poe wrote three stories featuring a detective involved with the occult named C. Auguste Dupin, starting with \"The Murders in the Rue Morgue\" which was first published in 1841. Fitz James O’Brien’s character Harry Escott is another contender for first occult detective in fiction. A specialist in supernatural phenomena, Escott investigates a ghost in \"The Pot of Tulips\" (1855) and an invisible entity in \"What Was It? A Mystery\" (1859). The narrator of Robert Bulwer-Lytton’s novella \"The Haunted and the Haunters; or, The House and the Brain\" (1859) is another student of the supernatural who probes a mystery involving a culprit with paranormal abilities.\nSheridan Le Fanu's Dr. Martin Hesselius appeared in \"Green Tea\" (1869) and later became a framing device for Le Fanu's short story collection \"In a Glass Darkly\" (1872).\nFor most of its plot, \"The Hound of the Baskervilles\", one of Sherlock Holmes's most well-known adventures, seems to belong in this genre - though in the end the villain turns out to be completely human and mundane, who deliberately created this misleading impression. \n\nThe next prominent figure in this tradition was Dr. Abraham Van Helsing in Bram Stoker's \"Dracula\" (1897), followed closely by E. and H. Heron's Flaxman Low, featured in a series of stories in \"Pearson's Magazine\" (1898–99), Algernon Blackwood's Dr. John Silence, and William Hope Hodgson's Carnacki the Ghost Finder. Other supernatural sleuths in fiction dating to the late nineteenth century include Alice & Claude Askew's Aylmer Vance and Champion de Crespigny's Norton Vyse. \n\nThomas Carnacki may well be considered one of the first true occult detectives, as he combined both knowledge and experience of what he calls “the ab-natural” with scientific deductive method and equipment. The adventures of Carnacki have been continued by a number of writers, including A. F. Kidd in collaboration with Rick Kennett in \"472 Cheyne Walk: Carnacki, the Untold Stories\" (2000), William Meikle in \"Carnacki: Heaven and Hell\" (Colusa, CA: Ghost House Press, 2011), Brandon Barrows in \"The Castle-Town Tragedy\" (Dunhams Manor, 2016), and others. In addition, writers Joshua M Reynolds and John Linwood Grant have each produced a separate series of stories which follow on from Carnacki's death, and feature occult detectives whose work relates to the original tales - \"The Adventures of the Royal Occultist\" and \"Tales of the Last Edwardian\" respectively.\n\nSax Rohmer's collection \"The Dream Detective\" features the occult detective Moris Klaw, who utilises \"odic force\" in his investigations. The occultist Dion Fortune made her contribution to the genre with \"The Secrets of Dr Taverner\" (1926), consisting of psychic adventures of the Holmes–like Taverner as narrated by his assistant, Dr Rhodes. Aleister Crowley's Simon Iff featured in a series of stories, some of which have been collected in book form. Dennis Wheatley's occult detective was Neils Orsen.\n\nThough never large, the occult detective subgenre grew to include such writers as Seabury Quinn (with his character Jules de Grandin); Manly Wade Wellman, whose character John Thunstone investigated occult events through short stories in the pulps, collected in \"The Third Cry to Legba and Other Invocations\" (2000) and in the novels \"What Dreams May Come\" (1983) and \"The School of Darkness\" (1985); and \"Jack Mann\" (E. C. Vivian), who chronicled the adventure of his occult detective Gregory Gordon George Green, known as \"Gees\", in a series of novels. Pulp writer Robert E. Howard created stories about Steve Harrison, an occult detective, in the \"Strange Detective Stories\" magazine. Margery Lawrence created the character Miles Pennoyer in her occult detective stories collected in \"Number Seven, Queer Street\".\n\nModern writers who have used the occult detective theme as a basis for supernatural adventures include Peter Saxon (The Guardians series), John Burke (Dr Alex Caspian), Frank Lauria (Dr Owen Orient), Lin Carter (Anton Zarnak), and Joseph Payne Brennan (Lucius Leffing).\n\nThe occult detective theme has also been used with series characters devised by such contemporary writers as Douglas Adams (Dirk Gently), F. Paul Wilson (the Repairman Jack series), Steve Rasnic Tem (Charlie Goode), Jessica Amanda Salmonson (Miss Penelope Pettiweather), David Rowlands (Father O'Connor), Rick Kennett (Ernie Pine), Brian Lumley (Titus Crow), Robert Weinberg (Sydney Taine), Simon R. Green (John Taylor), Steve Niles (Cal McDonald), Mike Carey (Felix Castor), Mercedes Lackey (Diana Tregarde), Laurell K. Hamilton (Anita Blake), Brian Keene (Levi Stoltzfus), Jonathan L. Howard (Johannes Cabal), and Jonathan Maberry (Sam Hunter). Jim Butcher's best-selling book series The Dresden Files is another well-known example. Randall Garrett's Lord Darcy stories and Dean Koontz's \"The Haunted Earth\" are examples in which occult detectives operate in a world where the occult is simply an accepted part of mundane life. Assaph Mehr's Stories of Togas, Daggers, and Magic combine historical mystery detective in ancient Rome with fantasy and occult elements.\n\nA useful recent anthology collecting specimens of the genre is Mark Valentine, ed., \"The Black Veil & Other Tales of Supernatural Sleuths\" (), published by Wordsworth Editions in 2009. Earlier themed anthologies include Stephen Jones, ed., \"Dark Detectives: Adventures of the Supernatural Sleuths\" (Fedogan & Bremer, 1998) and Peter Haining, ed., \"Supernatural Sleuths: Stories of Occult Investigators\" (William Kimber, 1986).\n\nThe magazine \"Occult Detective Quarterly\" (Electric Pentacle Press, 2016) specialises in presenting a wide range of new occult detective tales set in a range of time periods, with the occasional pastiche of classic figures from this branch of fiction.\n\nIn the 1970s, there were a number of attempts at occult detective television series. While not overtly occult detectives, the heroes and heroine of the sixties series \"The Champions\" inherited occult powers from a Tibetan lama and used these powers to investigate crime. \n\nOther examples include \"Fear No Evil\" (1969) and its sequel, \"Ritual of Evil\" (1970), starring Louis Jourdan as psychologist David Sorrell; \"The Sixth Sense\" (TV series) (1972) starring Gary Collins as a psychic investigator; \"The Norliss Tapes\" (1973) with Roy Thinnes as a reporter investigating the supernatural; \"Baffled!\" (1973), a British production with Leonard Nimoy and Susan Hampshire vs. an evil occult society; \"Spectre\" (1977), starring Robert Culp and Gig Young as criminologists turned demonologists; \"The World of Darkness\" (1977) and its sequel, \"The World Beyond\" (1978), starring Granville Van Dusen as a man who battles the supernatural following his own near death experience. \n\nThe most successful effort of this period was the short-lived television series \"\" (1974-75), starring Darren McGavin; the weekly series was based on two backdoor pilots (\"The Night Stalker\" and \"The Night Strangler\") produced by Dan Curtis and scripted by Richard Matheson, based on an unpublished work by Jeff Rice. Kolchak's adventures have been continued in books by Rice and in the comic book \"Kolchak Tales\". Matheson's \"Kolchak Scripts\" have also been published.\n\nMore recent examples include:\n\"Angel Heart\",\n\"The Believers\",\n\"Constantine\",\n\"The Dresden Files\",\n\"The Exorcist III\",\n\"Grimm\",\n\"Split Second\",\n\"Lord of Illusions\",\n\"Penny Dreadful\",\n\"R.I.P.D.\",\n\"Special Unit 2\",\n\"Supernatural\",\n\"Twin Peaks\",\n\"Vidocq\",\n\"The X-Files\", and\n\"Angel (1999 TV series)\".\n\nThe comic book \"Hellblazer\" boosted the popularity and image of the occult detective fiction genre and shaped it to its modern form. Many modern examples of the genre such as \"Hellboy\", \"Supernatural\", \"Grimm\", \"The Originals\", and \"The Dresden Files\" have been influenced by it, and many imitators of both the series and its character flourished such as \"Criminal Macabre\", \"Gravel\", \"Planetary\", and others. Its elements and style have been used countless of times in other works and many analogues of the cynical protagonist John Constantine have appeared.\n\nExamples of occult detectives in comic books include Doctor Spektor from Gold Key Comics, Hellboy from the Dark Horse series of same name, Dylan Dog from the Sergio Bonelli Editore series, and Martin Hel a character created by Robin Wood. Two \"Hellblazer\" writers have gone on to write their own occult detective characters: \"Sebastian O\" also at Vertigo by Grant Morrison and Warren Ellis' \"Gravel\" from Avatar Press. \"2000 AD\" has featured a number over the years in their own eponymous series: \"Bix Barton\", \"Devlin Waugh\", \"Ampney Crucis Investigates\" and \"Dandridge\". The occult detective team of Syd Deadlocke and Doc Martin, featured in \"Pulse of Darkness\" and other comics by Chris G.C. Sequeira, also fits into this genre. There is also the comic book series \"Ruse\", once owned by CrossGen and now by Marvel Comics.\n\nExamples in manga and anime include \"Majin Tantei Nōgami Neuro\", \"Mushishi\", \"YuYu Hakusho\", \"Ghost Hunt\", \"\"Mononoke\"\", \"Death Note\", \"Ghosts at School\", \"Bakemonogatari\" and \"\".\n\nExamples in video games include \"The Black Mirror\" series, \"Betrayer\", \"\", \"The Vanishing of Ethan Carter\", the \"Gabriel Knight\" series, \"\", \"\", \"The Adventures of Dog Mendonça & Pizzaboy\", \"Memento Mori\", \"Memento Mori 2\", \"\", \"\", \"\", \"The Wolf Among Us\", the \"Blackwell\" series, the \"Dark Fall\" series, the \"Barrow Hill\" series and \"Shadow of Memories\".\n\n"}
{"id": "197386", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=197386", "title": "Padmasambhava", "text": "Padmasambhava\n\nPadmasambhava (lit. \"Lotus-Born\"), also known as Guru Rinpoche, was an 8th-century Buddhist master from the Indian subcontinent. Although there was a historical Padmasambhava, little is known of him apart from helping the construction of the first Buddhist monastery in Tibet at Samye, at the behest of Trisong Detsen, and shortly thereafter leaving Tibet due to court intrigues.\n\nA number of legends have grown around Padmasambhava's life and deeds, and he is widely venerated as a \"second Buddha\" by adherents of Tibetan Buddhism in Tibet, Nepal, Bhutan, the Himalayan states of India, and elsewhere.\n\nIn Tibetan Buddhism, he is a character of a genre of literature called terma, an emanation of Amitābha that is said to appear to tertöns in visionary encounters and a focus of guru yoga practice, particularly in the Rimé schools. The Nyingma school considers Padmasambhava to be a founder of their tradition.\n\nOne of the earliest sources for Padmasambhava as a historical figure is the Testament of Ba (dating to the 9th or 10th centuries), which records the founding of Samye Monastery under the reign of king Trisong Detsen (r. 755–797/804). Other texts from Dunhuang show that Padmasambhava's tantric teachings were being taught in Tibet during the 10th century. New evidence suggests \nthat Padmasambhava already figured in religious myth and ritual, and was probably \neven seen as the enlightened source of tantric scriptures, as many as two hundred \nyears before Nyangrel Nyima Özer (1136-1204).\n\nNyangrel Nyima Özer (1136-1204) was the principal architect of the Padmasambhava mythos according to Janet Gyatso. Guru Chöwang (1212–1270) was the next major contributor to the mythos.\n\nIn the eleventh and twelfth centuries there were several competing terma traditions surrounding Padmasambhava, Vimalamitra, Songtsän Gampo, and Vairotsana. At the end of the 12th century, there was the \"victory of the Padmasambhava cult,\" in which a much greater role is assigned to the role of Padmasambhava in the introduction of Buddhism to Tibet.\n\nAccording to tradition, Padmasambhava was incarnated as an eight-year-old child appearing in a lotus blossom floating in Lake Dhanakosha, in the kingdom of Oddiyana. While some scholars locate this kingdom in the Swat Valley area of modern-day Pakistan, a case on literary, archaeological, and iconographical grounds can be made for placing it in the present-day state of Odisha in India. Padmasambhava's special nature was recognized by the childless local king of Oḍḍiyāna and was chosen to take over the kingdom, but he left Oddiyana for northern parts of India.\n\nIn Rewalsar, known as Tso Pema in Tibetan, he secretly taught tantric teachings to princess Mandarava, the local king's daughter. The king found out and tried to burn him, but it is believed that when the smoke cleared he just sat there, still alive and in meditation. Greatly astonished by this miracle, the king offered Padmasambhava both his kingdom and Mandarava.\n\nPadmasambhava left with Mandarava, and took to Maratika Cave in Nepal to practice secret tantric consort rituals. They had a vision of buddha Amitāyus and achieved what is called the \"phowa rainbow body,\" a very rare type of spiritual realization. Both Padmasambhava and one of his consorts, Mandarava, are still believed to be alive and active in this rainbow body form by their followers. She and Padmasambhava's other main consort, Yeshe Tsogyal, who reputedly hid his numerous \"terma\"s in Tibet for later discovery, reached Buddhahood. Many thangkas and paintings show Padmasambhava in between them, with Mandarava on his right and Yeshe Tsogyal on his left.\n\nAccording to Sam van Schaik, from the 12th century on a greater role was assigned to Padmasambhava in the introduction of tantric Buddhism into Tibet: \nAccording to this enlarged story, King Trisong Detsen, the 38th king of the Yarlung dynasty and the first Emperor of Tibet (742–797), invited the Nalanda University abbot Śāntarakṣita (Tibetan \"Shiwatso\") to Tibet. Śāntarakṣita started the building of Samye. Demonical forces hindered the introduction of the Buddhist dharma, and Padmasambhava was invited to Tibet to subdue the demonic forces. The demons were not annihilated, but were obliged to submit to the dharma. This was in accordance with the tantric principle of not eliminating negative forces but redirecting them to fuel the journey toward spiritual awakening. According to tradition, Padmasambhava received the Emperor's wife, identified with the dakini Yeshe Tsogyal, as a consort.\n\nKing Trisong Detsen ordered the translation of all Buddhist Dharma Texts into Tibetan. Padmasambhava, Shantarakṣita, 108 translators, and 25 of Padmasambhava's nearest disciples worked for many years in a gigantic translation-project. The translations from this period formed the base for the large scriptural transmission of Dharma teachings into Tibet. Padmasambhava supervised mainly the translation of Tantra; Shantarakshita concentrated on the Sutra-teachings.\n\nPadmasambhava introduced the people of Tibet to the practice of Tantric Buddhism.\n\nHe is regarded as the founder of the Nyingma tradition. The Nyingma tradition is the oldest of the four major schools of Tibetan Buddhism. The Nyingma tradition actually comprises several distinct lineages that all trace their origins to Padmasambhava.\n\n\"Nyingma\" literally means \"ancient,\" and is often referred to as \"Nga'gyur\" \" or the \"early translation school\" because it is founded on the first translations of Buddhist scriptures from Sanskrit into Tibetan, in the eighth century.\n\nThe group particularly believes in hidden terma treasures. Traditionally, Nyingmapa practice was advanced orally among a loose network of lay practitioners. Monasteries with celibate monks and nuns, along with the practice of reincarnated spiritual leaders are later adaptations, though Padmasambhava is regarded as the founder of Samye Gompa, the first monastery in the country. In modern times the Nyingma lineage has been centered in Kham in eastern Tibet.\n\nBhutan has many important pilgrimage places associated with Padmasambhava. The most famous is Paro Taktsang or \"Tiger's Nest\" monastery which is built on a sheer cliff wall about 900m above the floor of Paro valley. It was built around the \"Taktsang Senge Samdup (stag tshang seng ge bsam grub) cave\" where he is said to have meditated in the 8th Century. He flew there from Tibet on the back of Yeshe Tsogyal, whom he transformed into a flying tigress for the purpose of the trip. Later he travelled to Bumthang district to subdue a powerful deity offended by a local king. According to legend, Padmasambhava's body imprint can be found in the wall of a cave at nearby Kurje Lhakhang temple. \n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe khaṭvāńga is a particular divine attribute of Padmasambhava and intrinsic to his iconographic representation. It is a danda with three severed heads denoting the three kayas (the three bodies of a Buddha, the dharmakaya, sambhogakaya, and nirmanakaya), crowned by a trishula, and dressed with a sash of the Himalayan Rainbow or Five Pure Lights of the Mahabhuta. The iconography is utilized in various Tantric cycles by practitioners as symbols to hidden meanings in transmitted practices.\n\n\n\n\nThere are further iconographies and meanings in more advanced and secret stages.\n\nPadmasambhava is said to have taken eight forms or manifestations (Tib. \"Guru Tsen Gye\") representing different aspects of his being, such as wrath or pacification for example. According to Rigpa Shedra the eight principal forms were assumed by Guru Rinpoche at different points in his life. The Eight Manifestations of Padmasambhava belong to the tradition of the Revealed Treasures (Tib.: ter ma).\n\n\nPadmasambhava's various Sanskrit names are preserved in mantras such as those found in the Yang gsang rig 'dzin youngs rdzogs kyi blama guru mtshan brgyad bye brag du sgrub pa ye shes bdud rtsi'i sbrang char zhe bya ba.\n\nHis Pureland Paradise is Zangdok Palri (the Copper-Coloured Mountain).\n\nPadmasambhava said:\n\nThe \"Vajra Guru\" (Padmasambhava) mantra \"Om Ah Hum Vajra Guru Padma Siddhi Hum\" is favoured and held in esteem by sadhakas. Like most Sanskritic mantras in Tibet, the Tibetan pronunciation demonstrates dialectic variation and is generally \"Om Ah Hung Benza Guru Pema Siddhi Hung\". In the Vajrayana traditions, particularly of the Nyingmapa, it is held to be a powerful mantra engendering communion with the Three Vajras of Padmasambhava's mindstream and by his grace, all enlightened beings. In response to Yeshe Tsogyal's request, the Great Master himself explained the meaning of the mantra although there are larger secret meanings too. The 14th century tertön Karma Lingpa has a famous commentary on the mantra.\n\nThe Seven Line Prayer to Padmasambhava (Guru Rinpoche) is a famous prayer that is recited by many Tibetans daily and is said to contain the most sacred and important teachings of Dzogchen.\n\nJamgon Ju Mipham Gyatso composed a famous commentary to the Seven Line Prayer called \"White Lotus\". It explains the meanings, which are embedded in many levels and intended to catalyze a process of realization. These hidden teachings are described as ripening and deepening, in time, with study and with contemplation. Tulku Thondup says:\n\nEnshrining the most sacred prayer to Guru Padmasambhava, \"White Lotus\" elucidates its five layers of meaning as revealed by the eminent scholar Ju Mipham. This commentary now makes this treasure, which has been kept secret among the great masters of Tibet for generations, available as a source of blessings and learning for all.\n\nThere is also a shorter commentary, freely available, by Tulku Thondup himself. There are many other teachings and Termas and widely practiced tantric cycles incorporating the text as well as brief ones such as Terma Revelation of Guru Chöwang.\n\nPadmasambhava also hid a number of religious treasures (\"termas\") in lakes, caves, fields and forests of the Himalayan region to be found and interpreted by future \"tertöns\" or spiritual treasure-finders. According to Tibetan tradition, the Bardo Thodol (commonly referred to as the Tibetan Book of the Dead) was among these hidden treasures, subsequently discovered by a Tibetan terton, Karma Lingpa.\n\nTantric cycles related to Padmasambhava are not just practiced by the Nyingma, they even gave rise to a new offshoot of Bon which emerged in the 14th century called the New Bön. Prominent figures of the Sarma (new translation) schools such as the Karmapas and Sakya lineage heads have practiced these cycles and taught them. Some of the greatest tertons revealing teachings related to Padmasambhava have been from the Kagyu or Sakya lineages. The hidden lake temple of the Dalai Lamas behind the Potala called Lukhang is dedicated to Dzogchen teachings and has murals depicting the eight manifestations of Padmasambhava. Padmasambhava established Vajrayana Buddhism and the highest forms of Dzogchen (Mengagde) in Tibet and transformed the entire nation.\n\nMany of those who gathered around Padmasambhava became advanced tantric practitioners as well as helping to found and propagate the Nyingma tradition. The most prominent of these include Padmasambhava's five main female consorts, also known as dakinis and his twenty five main disciples.\n\nPadmasambhava had five main female tantric companions, beginning in India before his time in Tibet and then in Tibet as well. When seen from an outer, or perhaps even historical or mythological perspective, these five women from across South Asia were known as the \"Five Consorts.\" That the women come from very different geographic regions is understood as mandala, a support for Padmasambhava in spreading the dharma throughout the region.\n\nYet, when understood from a more inner tantric perspective, these same women are understood not as ordinary women but as dakinis; from this point of view, they are known as the \"Five Wisdom Dakinis\" (Wylie: \"Ye-shes mKha-'gro lnga\"). Each of these consorts is believed to be an emanation of the tantric yidam, Vajravārāhī. As one author writes of these relationships: \n\nIn summary, the five consorts/wisdom dakinis were:\n\n\nWhile there are very few sources on the lives of Kalasiddhi, Sakya Devi, and Tashi Kyedren, there are extant biographies of both Yeshe Tsogyal and Mandarava that have been translated into English and other western languages.\n\nThe Twenty Five Main Disciples () also called the disciples of Chimphu. In various lists these include:\n\n\n\n\nAlso:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31287453", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31287453", "title": "Passage to Nirvana", "text": "Passage to Nirvana\n\nPassage to Nirvana, A Survivor's Zen Voyage: Reflections on Loss, Discovery, Healing & Hope is a memoir by Lee Carlson, written over a several year period from 2005-2010 primarily on board a 60-foot sailboat named Nirvana that he shared with his fiancée Meg. It was his first book, although he had made his living as a writer for most of his adult life, working first as a journalist, magazine editor and freelance writer, and then moving into advertising and marketing copywriting. The book centers around Carlson's Traumatic Brain Injury and subsequent recovery, as well as his mother's death from a Traumatic Brain Injury. However the book is much more far-ranging, delving into such subjects as Zen Buddhism, sailing, divorce, children, family and even poetry. Ultimately it is a book about finding peace and happiness after a traumatic life event, a book about finding the joy in living.\n\n\"Passage to Nirvana\" begins with Carlson's accident, when he was hit by a car standing outside a car wash, striking his head violently on the pavement, fracturing his skull, lapsing into a light coma and sustaining a Traumatic Brain Injury, with bleeding on the brain and other damage. The story follows him through his brief hospitalization, then a year-long rehab in Florida, then his return to the North Fork of Long Island where he tries to rebuild his shattered life. His wife has left him and moved away with their children, his business has evaporated, he has no home and has to begin with noting to renew his life. During his year in Florida he also helps care for his mother, who is severely disabled from her own traumatic brain injury sustained when she fell down a flight of basement stairs. She is in a wheelchair, unable to walk, talk or feed herself. While he is in Florida, his mother eventually dies. Upon returning to Long Island, more misfortunes seem to continue: his aunt dies of cancer, as does his brother-in-law, and he returns to Buffalo to help his sister and her children while his brother-in-law is in the hospital.\n\nWhile this may sound morbid and depressing, the bulk of the book is uplifting, a positive affirmation of life. Carlson concentrates on his Zen Buddhist studies and meditation as a way of helping him heal, working with the noted writer and Zen teacher Peter Matthiessen. Sections of the book take place in the Ocean Zendo, a Zen center run by Matthiessen, and much of the book is a meditation on the spiritual aspects of healing, acceptance and rebuilding a life. Eventually Carlson meets a beautiful, understanding woman who has been through difficulties of her own: a difficult divorce, raising two children as a single mother. They fall in love, and decide to buy a sailboat named \"Nirvana\" that they discover rotting in a boatyard in St. Martin. They renovate the boat, sail her back to the eastern end of Long Island, where they are joined by their four children and two dogs, working at creating a new family and a new life. Eventually they sail \"Nirvana\" to the Bahamas for a winter writing sabbatical, where most of the book was written.\n\nTrying to describe the \"plot\" is difficult, however, as the book is really a collection of short essays, some about events happening in real time, some about Traumatic Brain Injury, some reflections on various aspects of philosophy and Eastern thought, and some stories recalling the author's childhood. See the section \"Unique Writing Style\" below for more information.\n\nThe book is written as a series of short, interconnected essays, many of them short, short stories no more than a few pages long, using some example from Carlson's life and recovery as a kind of moral fable. Most of the chapters are preceded by exceedingly short poems, often consisting of only three or four words, that Carlson calls a \"Po.\" The narrative of the book is not linear, and in the book's introduction Carlson says that much of the book's unique style came from how his brain functioned during his recovery. The Po because initially he could not remember long sentences; the short chapters because he could not remember longer chapters, and the non-linear narrative because that's how his mind was functioning, having trouble concentrating on any one thing for long periods of time. As such the narrative jumps back and forth, loops around in time, and is refreshingly inventive and interesting. At the same time, each short chapter is designed as a stand-alone essay, so the reader can pick up the book, turn to any chapter and read it as a kind of short story.\n\nWritten during 2005-2010, and published in 2010, \"Passage to Nirvana\" was rejected by a number of mainstream publishers and agents, due to its unusual writing style and layout. Because of his background in magazine publishing, Carlson decided to form his own publishing company, Henry Chapin and Sons, to publish and market the book. Given his interest in new technology, the internet, and the rapidly changing publishing business, he also decided to use the new crowdfunding paradigm for raising money to publish the book, and raised nearly $13,000 from small, individual donors using the arts funding web site kickstarter. He then used Facebook, as well as the worldwide network of Amazon.com sites such as Amazon Japan as a way of marketing the book and reaching out to a worldwide readership, where the book found a following, gathering fans from not only the U.S., but from Canada, Mexico, Peru, Brazil, Argentina, Chile, the U.K., Ireland, France, Italy, Russia, Poland, Morocco, South Africa, Croatia, India, Nepal, Indonesia, Japan, Australia and other countries.\n\n\"Passage to Nirvana\" has received positive reviews. One reviewer said, \"Mr. Carlson is playful with words, which is part of the enchantment of his po-etics, or short poems, called po. With titles like “Passage to Nirvana” and “The Book of Po,” they made me think of “Passage to India” and “Life of Pi.” The references lead by imagination to the land of origin for Buddhism, or so I take it. Mr. Carlson’s journey is graced with whimsy, like a good south wind with the sail in a reach and spray in your face...The writing here is lucid, with a light touch — light of heart.\" \n\nAnother reviewer said \"No one is perfect, and realizing this is the first step in finding that second opportunity in life. \"Passage to Nirvana: A Survivor's Zen Voyage: Reflections on Loss, Discovery, Healing & Hope\" is an inspirational and spiritual read from Lee Carlson. Recovering from a traumatic brain injury, he found new joy in life and found his own passage to joy in life through many arts of Zen. Thoughtful and riveting reading, \"Passage to Nirvana\" is an enlightening and educational read that shouldn't be overlooked for those looking for their own second chances.\" \n\nA third review called \"Passage to Nirvana\" \"An inspirational story of how love and the strength of the human spirit can triumph over adversity, Passage to Nirvana is a reminder to cherish every day and never forget that our health is, indeed, our wealth.\"\n\nWhile the book is ostensibly about recovering from Traumatic Brain Injury, the spiritual nature of the book is one thing that seems to have captured many people's attention. There is the review in the East Hampton Star that was written by a minister (see first review above), and on the book's website there are many reviews and testimonials from people with two testimonials from religious teachers standing out: “Amazing, Really Amazing. I Want to Share it With Others.” -Rabbi John Linder, Temple Solei; and “Deserves to be Hailed As A Unique and Lasting Contribution to American Letters.” -Reverend Thomas Yorty, Westminster Presbyterian Church. The book has received all five-star reviews on Amazon.com.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22294715", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22294715", "title": "Pieter Willem van der Horst", "text": "Pieter Willem van der Horst\n\nPieter Willem van der Horst (born 4 July 1946) is a scholar and university professor emeritus specializing in New Testament studies, Early Christian literature, and the Jewish and Hellenistic context of Early Christianity.\n\nVan der Horst was born in Driebergen, the Netherlands. He studied classical philology and received a doctorate in theology in 1978. From 1969 to 2006, he was a research assistant, junior and senior lecturer, and full professor at the Faculty of Theology of Utrecht University. He is an editor of the series Commentaries on Early Jewish Literature, published by Walter de Gruyter, and is a member of the Royal Dutch Academy of Sciences.\n\nIn 2006, van der Horst became embroiled in a controversy over his retirement lecture, \"The Myth of Jewish Cannibalism,\" which traced the development of this antisemitic theme from the Hellenistic period through the Middle Ages to Nazism. He planned to conclude by examining the resurgence of the cannibalism myth in contemporary Islamic media, including cartoons, television programs, and sermons, particularly in Iran, Syria, and Palestine.\n\nThe text of the lecture was reviewed in advance by Utrecht University administrators. According to van der Horst, he was asked by the dean of faculty to delete the passage on what he prefers to call \"Islamic Jew hatred.\" She found the contemporary portions of the lecture to be \"pamphlet-like\" and \"unscientific.\" When he declined to edit, the dean referred the matter to the \"rector magnificus\" Willem Hendrik Gispen, the university's chief administrator. Van der Horst was then asked to appear before a committee composed of the rector, two deans of faculty, and Bas de Gaay Fortman, who holds Utrecht's unique chair of Political Economy of Human Rights. The administration, while not disputing van der Horst's reconstruction of the chain of events, has maintained that he misunderstood the content of that meeting. Van der Horst says that he was given three reasons for editing his lecture:\nVan der Horst said that he was given 24 hours to edit the lecture, and left the meeting \"in a state of total confusion.\" In a guest column for \"The Wall Street Journal\", he wrote that he had decided, with no independent means to verify any potential risk to himself or others, to proceed with an expurgated version. Because of the challenge to his academic reputation, he said, he also asked several colleagues, including three professors of Islamic Studies he left unnamed, to review his work from a scholarly perspective. According to van der Horst, none found weakness in the scholarship, nor any statements offensive to Islam, Muhammad, or the Qur'an.\n\nVan der Horst delivered his \"castrated\" valedictory speech 16 June 2006.\n\nThe next day, the incident began to receive Dutch media coverage. The deleted passages were published by the daily newspaper \"Trouw\", which had been contacted by van der Horst's fellow professors. These included passages that van der Horst himself identified as \"polemic\" involving the connection between German fascism and \"Islamic vilification of Jews\" in the contemporary Middle East, with statements such as \"the Islamisation of European antisemitism is one of the most frightening developments of the past decades.\"\n\nOn June 22, \"rector magnificus\" Gispen responded to the controversy in an interview with \"NRC Handelsblad\", another Dutch daily. Gispen maintained that neither \"Islamophobia\" nor censorship was at issue, but rather the quality of van der Horst's work. He attributed van der Horst's response to resentment over having to retire and the \"marginalization\" of his academic department.\nVan der Horst's \"Wall Street Journal\" column was published June 30. In it, he asserted that despite the publication of the unexpurgated version of his lecture in multiple media outlets, he \"did not receive a single negative, let alone threatening, Muslim reaction,\" though some had criticized him for overgeneralization.\n\nCritics interpreted the university's reaction as part of an excessively conciliatory response to a perceived Islamist agenda following the murder of Dutch filmmaker Theo van Gogh by a Muslim extremist in late 2004 and subsequent threats against Dutch parliamentarian Ayaan Hirsi Ali, who emigrated to the United States in 2006. The incident has been compared to Utrecht University's handling of accusations against Peter Debye, the Nobel laureate after whom the university's Institute of Physics & Chemistry had been named. Debye's name was removed following allegations that he had collaborated with the Nazis while director of the Kaiser Wilhelm Institute in Berlin during the 1930s. Gispen himself acknowledged that his position toward van der Horst's lecture had been influenced by the Debye controversy.\n\nDutch media covered the controversy through news stories and in editorials; the positions of both the rector and van der Horst received support. The controversy also received attention from Anglophone blogs that deal with antisemitism or with the effects of \"Islamophobia\" on academic freedom. French media are alleged to have underreported the incident, but French commentator Paul Landau stated strongly that in his opinion it \"illustrated the level of 'dhimmitude' elite universities in many European countries have come to today. … Wake up, Erasmus, they've become fools.\"\n\nVan der Horst went on to publish \"The Myth of Jewish Cannibalism: A Chapter in the History of Antisemitism\" in \"Proceedings of the Israel Academy of Sciences and Humanities (English Series)\", vol. 8 (2008). He traces the origin of the belief — that Jews murder a non-Jew each year to ritually consume the entrails and blood — to Apion, a 1st-century Alexandrian scholar who constructed the myth as a conflict between the civilizing Egyptian deity Isis and the god of the Jews.\n\nIn addition to numerous articles, van der Horst has published, edited or contributed to the following books:\n\nVan der Horst was honored with the publication of \"Empsychoi Logoi: Religious Innovations in Antiquity. Studies in Honour of Pieter Willem van der Horst\" (Leiden: Brill, 2008), as part of the series Ancient Judaism and Early Christianity. The volume was edited by Alberdina Houtman, Albert de Jong, and Magda Misset-van de Weg.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3946813", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3946813", "title": "Prehistoric religion", "text": "Prehistoric religion\n\nPrehistoric religions are the religious beliefs and practices of prehistoric peoples. The term may cover Paleolithic religion, Mesolithic religion, Neolithic religion and Bronze Age religions.\n\nIntentional burial, particularly with grave goods, may be one of the earliest detectable forms of religious practice (the onset of burial itself being a canonical indicator of behavioral modernity) since, as Philip Lieberman suggests, it may signify a \"concern for the dead that transcends daily life\".\n\nA number of archeologists propose that Middle Paleolithic societies such as Neanderthal societies may also have practiced early forms of totemism or of animal worship. Emil Bächler in particular suggests (based on archeological evidence from Middle Paleolithic caves) that a widespread Middle Paleolithic Neanderthal bear-cult existed (Wunn, 2000, p. 434-435). A claim that evidence was found for Middle Paleolithic animal worship c 70,000 BCE (originating from the Tsodilo Hills in the African Kalahari desert) has been denied by the original investigators of the site. Animal cults in the following Upper Paleolithic period, such as the bear cult, may have had their origins in these hypothetical Middle Paleolithic animal cults.\n\nAnimal worship during the Upper Paleolithic intertwined with hunting rites. For instance, archeological evidence from Paleolithic art and from bear remains reveals that the bear cult apparently had a type of sacrificial bear ceremonialism in which a bear was shot with arrows, then finished off with a shot in the lungs and ritualistically buried near a clay bear-statue covered by a bear fur, with the skull and the body of the bear buried separately.\n\nThere are no extant textual sources from the Neolithic era, the most recent available dating from the Bronze Age, and therefore all statements about any belief systems Neolithic societies may have possessed are glimpsed from archaeology.\n\nJacques Cauvin suggested that the Neolithic Revolution was influenced by an important theme he termed the \"Revolution of the Symbols\", suggesting the birth of \"religion\" in the Neolithic. He argued that Neolithic humans were influenced by a change in thinking as much as changes in the environment and noted a series of stages in this process. His work suggested important concepts in the evolution of human thinking, by examining figurines and early art depicting first women as goddesses and bulls as gods, he suggested several important ideas about the evolution of perception and duality.\n\nThe structures known as Circular Enclosures built in Central Europe during the 5th millennium BCE have been interpreted as serving a cultic function. In the case of the Goseck circle, remains of human sacrifice were found. Many of these structures had openings aligned with sunset and/or sunrise at the solstices, suggesting that they served as a means of maintaining a lunisolar calendar. The construction of Megalithic monuments in Europe also began in the 5th millennium, and continued throughout the Neolithic and in some areas well into the early Bronze Age.\n\nMarija Gimbutas, pioneer of feminist archaeology, put forward a notion of a \"woman-centered\" society surrounding \"goddess worship\" in Neolithic Europe. The Neolithic \"matristic\" cultures would have been replaced by patriarchy only with the arrival of the Bronze Age. Gimbutas' views on this matter do not have widespread support today.\n\nThe early Bronze Age Proto-Indo-European religion (itself reconstructed), and the attested early Semitic gods, are presumed continuations of certain traditions of the late Neolithic.\n\nHints to the religion of Bronze Age Europe include images of solar barges, frequent appearance of the Sun cross, deposits of bronze axes, and later sickles, so-called moon idols, the conical golden hats, the Nebra skydisk, and burial in tumuli, but also cremation as practised by the Urnfield culture.\n\nWhile the Iron Age religions of the Mediterranean, Near East, India and China are well attested in written sources, much of Iron Age Europe, from the period of about 700 BCE down to the Great Migrations, falls within the prehistoric period. There are scarce accounts of non-Mediterranean religious customs in the records of Hellenistic and Roman era ethnography.\n\nIn the case of Circumpolar religion (Shamanism in Siberia, Finnic mythology), traditional African religions, native American religions and Pacific religions, the prehistoric era mostly ends only with the Early Modern period and European colonialism. These traditions were often only first recorded in the context of Christianization.\n\nFor these reasons, the interpretations and understanding of the Iron Age cult in Europe has to rely primarily on archaeological material.\n\n"}
{"id": "40436425", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40436425", "title": "Protestant culture", "text": "Protestant culture\n\nAlthough the Reformation was a religious movement, it also had a strong impact on all other aspects of life: marriage and family, education, the humanities and sciences, the political and social order, the economy, and the arts.\n\nAll Protestant churches allow their clergy to marry, in contrast to the Roman Catholic Church. This meant that the families of many members of the Protestant clergy were able to contribute to the development of intellectual elites in their countries from about 1525, when the theologian Martin Luther was married.\n\nHistorically, the role of women in church life, the Protestant clergy, and as theologians remained limited. The role of women expanded over time and was closely associated with the movements for universal education and women's suffrage. Political and social movements for suffrage (voting rights) and sobriety (see temperance movement and Prohibition) in the English-speaking world of the late 19th and early 20th centuries were closely associated with Protestant Christian women's organizations.\n\nWhile particular Protestant churches such as the Methodists involved women as clergy or assistants since the late 1700s, the ordination of women as clergy dates from the 1970s in the Anglican Communion. Since about 1990, many more women have assumed senior leadership roles (e.g. as bishops) in several Protestant churches, including the Anglican Communion and the Church of England.\n\nSince the 1990s Protestant churches have encountered controversy regarding the Church's response to persons of minority sexual orientations. The sometimes divisive nature of these discussions was exemplified by the formation of dissenting groups within the Anglican Communion that rejected reforms that were intended to make the Church more inclusive (see related article Homosexuality and the Anglican Communion).\n\nSince Reformers wanted all members of the church to be able to read and study the Bible and catechisms, support for education at all levels increased over time in Europe, the Americas, and in other parts of the world that were influenced by contact with European educators and missionaries. Compulsory education for both boys and girls was introduced. For example, the Puritans who established Massachusetts Bay Colony in 1628 founded Harvard College only eight years later. About a dozen other American colleges followed in the 18th century, including Yale University (1701). Pennsylvania also became a centre of learning. By initiating translations of the Bible into various national languages, Protestantism supported the development of national literatures.\n\nSome of the first colleges and universities in America, including Harvard, Yale, Princeton, Columbia, Dartmouth, Williams, Bowdoin, Middlebury, and Amherst, all were founded by mainline Protestant denominations.\n\nThe Protestant concept of God and man allows believers to use all their God-given faculties, including the power of reason. That means that Protestant believers are encouraged to explore God's creation and, according to Genesis 2:15, make use of it in a responsible and sustainable way. Thus a cultural climate was created that greatly enhanced the development of the humanities and the sciences. Another consequence of the Protestant understanding of man is that the believers, in gratitude for their election and redemption in Christ, are to follow God's commandments. Industry, frugality, calling, discipline, and a strong sense of responsibility are at the heart of their moral code. In particular, John Calvin rejected luxury. Therefore, craftsmen, industrialists, and other businessmen were able to reinvest the greater part of their profits in the most efficient machinery and the most modern production methods that were based on progress in the sciences and technology. As a result, productivity grew, which led to increased profits and enabled employers to pay higher wages. In this way, the economy, the sciences, and technology reinforced each other. The chance to participate in the economic success of technological inventions was a strong incentive to both inventors and investors. The Protestant work ethic was an important force behind the unplanned and uncoordinated mass action that influenced the development of capitalism and the industrial revolution. This idea is also known as the \"Protestant ethic thesis.\"\n\nSome mainline Protestant denominations such as Episcopalians, Presbyterians and Congregationalists tend to be considerably wealthier and better educated than most other religious groups in America, having a higher proportion of graduate and post-graduate degrees per capita. Protestants are disproportionately represented in the upper reaches of American business, law and politics, especially the Republican Party. Large numbers of the most wealthy and affluent American families such as the Vanderbilts and Astors, Rockefeller, Du Pont, Roosevelt, Forbes, Whitneys, Morgans and Harrimans are Mainline Protestant families.\n\nAccording to a 2014 study by the Pew Research Center, Episcopalians ranked as the third most financially successful religious group in the United States, with 35% of Episcopalians living in households with incomes of at least $100,000, while and Presbyterians ranked as the fourth most financially successful religious group in the United States, with 32% of Presbyterians living in households with incomes of at least $100,000. According to the same study there is correlation between education and income, about 59% of American Anglican have a graduate and post-graduate degree, followed by Episcopalians (56%) and Presbyterians (47%).\n\nProtestantism had an important influence on science. According to the Merton Thesis, there was a positive correlation between the rise of Puritanism and Protestant Pietism on the one hand and early experimental science on the other. The Merton Thesis has two separate parts: Firstly, it presents a theory that science changes due to an accumulation of observations and improvement in experimental techniques and methodology; secondly, it puts forward the argument that the popularity of science in 17th-century England and the religious demography of the Royal Society (English scientists of that time were predominantly Puritans or other Protestants) can be explained by a correlation between Protestantism and the scientific values. In his theory, Robert K. Merton focused on English Puritanism and German Pietism as having been responsible for the development of the scientific revolution of the 17th and 18th centuries. Merton explained that the connection between religious affiliation and interest in science was the result of a significant synergy between the ascetic Protestant values and those of modern science. Protestant values encouraged scientific research by allowing science to study God's influence on the world and thus providing a religious justification for scientific research.\n\nAccording to Harriet Zuckerman's review of American Nobel prize laureates from 1901 to 1972, 72% were of Protestant background. According to Zuckerman, Protestants featured among the American laureates in a slightly greater proportion (72%) than their prevalence within the general population (about 2/3). Overall, Protestants have won a total of 84.2% of all the American Nobel Prizes in Chemistry, 60% in Medicine and 58.6% in Physics between 1901 and 1972.\n\nAccording to \"100 Years of Nobel Prize (2005)\", a review of Nobel prizes awarded between 1901 and 2000, 65.4% of Nobel Prize Laureates, have identified Christianity in its various forms as their religious preference (423 prizes). While 32% have identified Protestant in its various forms (208 prize). although Protestant comprise 11.6% to 13% of the world's population.\n\nIn the Middle Ages, the Church and the worldly authorities were closely related. Martin Luther separated the religious and the worldly realms in principle (doctrine of the two kingdoms). The believers were obliged to use reason to govern the worldly sphere in an orderly and peaceful way. Luther's doctrine of the priesthood of all believers upgraded the role of laymen in the church considerably. The members of a congregation had the right to elect a minister and, if necessary, to vote for his dismissal (Treatise \"On the right and authority of a Christian assembly or congregation to judge all doctrines and to call, install and dismiss teachers, as testified in Scripture\"; 1523). Calvin strengthened this basically democratic approach by including elected laymen (church elders, presbyters) in his representative church government. The Huguenots added regional synods and a national synod, whose members were elected by the congregations, to Calvin's system of church self-government. This system was taken over by the other Reformed churches.\n\nPolitically, John Calvin favoured a mixture of aristocracy and democracy. He appreciated the advantages of democracy: \"It is an invaluable gift, if God allows a people to freely elect its own authorities and overlords.\" Calvin also thought that earthly rulers lose their divine right and must be put down when they rise up against God. To further protect the rights of ordinary people, Calvin suggested separating political powers in a system of checks and balances (separation of powers). Thus he and his followers resisted political absolutism and paved the way for the rise of modern democracy. Besides England, the Netherlands were, under Calvinist leadership, the freest country in Europe in the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries. It granted asylum to philosophers like René Descartes, Baruch Spinoza and Pierre Bayle. Hugo Grotius was able to teach his natural-law theory and a relatively liberal interpretation of the Bible.\n\nConsistent with Calvin's political ideas, Protestants created both the English and the American democracies. In 17th-century England, the most important persons and events in this process were the English Civil War, Oliver Cromwell, John Milton, John Locke, the Glorious Revolution, the English Bill of Rights, and the Act of Settlement. Later, the British took their democratic ideals also to their colonies, e.g. Australia, New Zealand, and India. In the 19th and 20th centuries, the British variety of modern-time democracy, constitutional monarchy, was taken over by Protestant-formed Sweden, Norway, Denmark, and the Netherlands as well as the Catholic countries Belgium and Spain. In North America, Plymouth Colony (Pilgrim Fathers; 1620) and Massachusetts Bay Colony (1628) practised democratic self-rule and separation of powers. These Congregationalists were convinced that the democratic form of government was the will of God. The Mayflower Compact was a social contract.\n\nProtestants have always played the decisive role in British and American politics. The Act of Settlement stipulated that all British monarchs and their spouses must be Protestants. Except for John F. Kennedy, a Catholic, all Presidents of the United States have been members of mainline Protestant churches or have had a Protestant background.\n\nProtestants also took the initiative in creating religious freedom, the starting-point of human rights. Freedom of conscience had had high priority on the theological, philosophical, and political agendas since Luther refused to recant his beliefs before the Diet of the Holy Roman Empire at Worms (1521). In his view, faith was a free work of the Holy Spirit and could therefore not be forced on a person. The persecuted Anabaptists and Huguenots demanded freedom of conscience, and they practised separation of church and state. In the early seventeenth century, Baptists like John Smyth and Thomas Helwys published tracts in defence of religious freedom. Their thinking influenced John Milton's and John Locke's stance on tolerance. Under the leadership of Baptist Roger Williams, Congregationalist Thomas Hooker, and Quaker William Penn, respectively, Rhode Island, Connecticut, and Pennsylvania combined democratic constitutions with freedom of religion. These colonies became safe havens for persecuted religious minorities, including Jews. The United States Declaration of Independence, the United States Constitution, and the (American) Bill of Rights with its fundamental human rights made this tradition permanent by giving it a legal and political framework. The great majority of American Protestants, both clergy and laity, strongly supported the independence movement. All major Protestant churches were represented in the First and Second Continental Congresses. In the nineteenth and twentieth centuries, the American democracy became a model for numerous other countries throughout the world, e.g. Latin America, Japan, and Germany. The strongest link between the American and the French Revolution was Marquis de Lafayette, an ardent supporter of the American constitutional principles. The French Declaration of the Rights of Man and of the Citizen was mainly based on Lafayette’s draft of this document. The United Nations Declaration and Universal Declaration of Human Rights also echo the American constitutional tradition. \nDemocracy, social-contract theory, separation of powers, religious freedom, separation of church and state – these achievements of the Reformation and early Protestantism were elaborated on and popularized by Enlightenment thinkers. The philosophers of the English, Scottish, German, and Swiss Enlightenment – Thomas Hobbes, John Locke, John Toland, David Hume, Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz, Christian Wolff, Immanuel Kant, and Jean-Jacques Rousseau – had a Protestant background. For example, John Locke, whose political thought was based on \"a set of Protestant Christian assumptions\", derived the equality of all humans, including the equality of the genders (\"Adam and Eve\"), from Genesis 1, 26–28. As all persons were created equally free, all governments needed the consent of the governed. These Lockean ideas were fundamental to the United States Declaration of Independence, which also deduced human rights from the biblical belief in creation: “We hold these truths to be self-evident, that all men are \"created\" equal, that they are endowed by their \"Creator\" with certain unalienable Rights, that among these are Life, Liberty, and the pursuit of Happiness.” These rights were theonomous ideas (theonomy). They were not derived from a concept of autonomous man. In colonial America, there was \"the broadly accepted notion of equality by creation.\"\n\nAlso other human rights were initiated by Protestants. For example, torture was abolished in Prussia in 1740, slavery in Britain in 1834 and in the United States in 1865 (William Wilberforce, Harriet Beecher Stowe, Abraham Lincoln). Hugo Grotius and Samuel Pufendorf were among the first thinkers who made significant contributions to international law. The Geneva Convention, an important part of humanitarian international law, was largely the work of Henry Dunant, a reformed pietist. He also founded the Red Cross.\n\nProtestants have always felt obliged to help people. They have founded hospitals, homes for disabled or elderly people, educational institutions, organisations that give aid to developing countries, and other social welfare agencies. In the nineteenth century, throughout the Anglo-American world numerous dedicated members of all Protestant denominations were active in social reform movements such as the abolition of slavery, prison reforms, and woman suffrage. As an answer to the \"social question\" of the nineteenth century, Germany under Chancellor Otto von Bismarck introduced insurance programs that led the way to the welfare state (health insurance, accident insurance, disability insurance, old-age pensions). To Bismarck this was \"practical Christianity\". These programs, too, were copied by many other nations, particularly in the Western world.\n\nThe arts have been strongly inspired by Protestant beliefs. Martin Luther, Paul Gerhardt, George Wither, Isaac Watts, Charles Wesley, William Cowper, and many other authors and composers created well-known church hymns. Musicians like Heinrich Schütz, Johann Sebastian Bach, George Frederick Handel, Henry Purcell, Johannes Brahms, and Felix Mendelssohn-Bartholdy composed great works of music. Prominent painters with Protestant background were, for example, Albrecht Dürer, Hans Holbein the Younger, Lucas Cranach, Rembrandt, and Vincent van Gogh. World literature was enriched by the works of Edmund Spenser, John Milton, John Bunyan, John Donne, John Dryden, Daniel Defoe, William Wordsworth, Jonathan Swift, Johann Wolfgang Goethe, Friedrich Schiller, Samuel Taylor Coleridge, Edgar Allan Poe, Matthew Arnold, Conrad Ferdinand Meyer, Theodor Fontane, Washington Irving, Robert Browning, Emily Dickinson, Emily Brontë, Charles Dickens, Nathaniel Hawthorne, Thomas Stearns Eliot, John Galsworthy, Thomas Mann, William Faulkner, John Updike, and many others.\n\n"}
{"id": "858610", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=858610", "title": "R. J. Rushdoony", "text": "R. J. Rushdoony\n\nRousas John Rushdoony (April 25, 1916 – February 8, 2001) was a Calvinist philosopher, historian, and theologian and is widely credited as being the father of Christian Reconstructionism and an inspiration for the modern Christian homeschool movement. His followers and critics have argued that his thought exerts considerable influence on the evangelical Christian right.\n\nRushdoony was born in New York City, the son of recently arrived Armenian immigrants. Before his parents fled the Armenian Genocide of 1915, his ancestors had lived in a remote area near Mount Ararat. There are claims that since the year 320, every generation of the Rushdoony family has produced a Christian priest or minister. Rushdoony himself claimed that his ancestors \"…would perpetually give a member of their family to be a priest to perform a kind of Aaronic priesthood as in the Old Testament, an hereditary priesthood. Whoever in the family felt called would become the priest. And our family did so. So from the early 300's until now there has always been someone in the ministry in the family.\"\n\nWithin weeks of arriving in America, his parents moved to the small farming community of Kingsburg, California, in Fresno County, where a number of other Armenian families had relocated. There his father, Yegheazar Khachig Rushdoony, founded a church, Armenian Martyrs Presbyterian. Rousas learned to read English by poring over the family's King James Bible: \"By the time I reached my teens I had read the Bible through from cover to cover, over and over and over again\". The family moved in 1925 for a short time to Detroit, where his father pastored another Armenian church. They returned to Kingsburg in 1931 and Rousas completed school in California. His father was pastor of Bethel Armenian Presbyterian Church in San Francisco in 1942. Rousas had a younger sister, Rose (named for their mother), and brother, Haig. His father died in Fresno in 1961.\n\nRushdoony attended public schools where he learned English, though Armenian was the language spoken at home. He continued his education at the University of California, Berkeley, where he earned a B.A. in English in 1938, a teaching credential in 1939 and an M.A. in Education in 1940. Rushdoony and Arda Gent married in San Francisco the week before Christmas, 1943.\n\nRushdoony went on to the Pacific School of Religion, a Congregational and Methodist seminary in Berkeley, California, from which he graduated in 1944. Through letters over the years he kept up his friendship with his Pacific School of Religion mentor, theology professor George Huntston Williams, who saw in him the \"heir of a great national Christian heritage\" who would \"enunciate anew the Gospel which seems to have been forgotten for a season.\" In 1944 he was ordained by the Presbyterian Church in the United States of America.\n\nHe was later awarded an honorary Ph.D. from Valley Christian University for his book, \"The Philosophy of the Christian Curriculum\".\n\nGary North stated that Rushdoony read at least one book a day, six days a week, for fifty years of his life, underlining sentences and making an index of its main ideas in the rear.\n\nRushdoony and his wife Arda served for eight and a half years as missionaries to the Shoshone and Paiute Indians on the remote Duck Valley Indian Reservation in northern Nevada. They lived in the reservation's primary town, Owyhee. It was during their mission to the Native Americans that Rushdoony began writing.\n\nArda taught at the reservation school and at Sunday school, led a Girl Scout troop, coached the girls' basketball team, and visited with families. In 1945 they adopted Ronald, an orphaned baby from the reservation. Between 1947 and 1952 in Owyhee, four daughters were born to them. In late 1952 Rushdoony took a Presbyterian Church (USA) pastorate at Trinity Presbyterian Church in Santa Cruz, California and the family left Duck Valley in January 1953. Their son Mark was born the next month in Santa Cruz.\nIn Santa Cruz, Rushdoony became a reader of the Christian libertarian magazine \"Faith and Freedom\", which advocated an \"anti-tax, non-interventionist, anti-statist economic model\" in opposition to Franklin D. Roosevelt's New Deal. \"Faith and Freedom\"'s views on government aligned with Rushdoony's fears of centralized government power, given the Rushdoony family's memories of the Armenian Genocide. Rushdoony contributed articles to \"Faith and Freedom\", including one describing his observations of the Duck Valley Indian Reservation, arguing that government support had reduced residents to \"social and personal irresponsibility\".\n\nThe Rushdoonys separated in 1957 and later divorced. About this time, Rushdoony transferred his church membership from the Presbyterian Church (USA) to the Orthodox Presbyterian denomination. The Orthodox Presbyterian Church's newsletter, \"The Presbyterian Guardian\", reported in July 1958 that \"the Rev. Rousas J. Rushdoony… was received and a new Orthodox Presbyterian Church organized, consisting of [sixty-six charter members] who had separated from the Presbyterian Church in the U.S.A. in Santa Cruz.\" In their petition the group asked that Rushdoony be ordained as their pastor and stated, \"[W]e cannot abide in any church which seeks to define righteousness or sin, salvation or sanctification, except in terms of the Word of God. We have witnessed, here in Santa Cruz, against modernism, man-made perfectionism, and church bureaucracy\". The newsletter article goes on to report, \"The Presbytery in receiving the church also examined Mr. Thomas Kirkwood and Mr. Kenneth Webb as prospective elders, and they with Mr. Rushdoony were constituted the session of the church,\" and announced the publication of Rushdoony's \"By What Standard?\" later that year.\n\nThe May 1962 edition of \"The Presbyterian Guardian\" reported Rushdoony's resignation, noted as \"reportedly to devote his time for his writing and lecturing.\" Rushdoony also married his second wife, Dorothy Barbara Ross Kirkwood, in 1962. She died in 2003.\n\nRushdoony moved to Los Angeles in 1965 and founded the Chalcedon Foundation; the monthly \"Chalcedon Report\", which Rushdoony edited, began appearing that October. His daughter Sharon later married Gary North, a Christian Reconstructionist writer and economic historian. North and Rushdoony became collaborators and their partnership lasted until 1981 when it was ended due to a dispute over the content of one of North's articles. Following the dispute, North and Chalcedon continued to independently promote each other's views, but they did not reach a \"truce\" until 1995.\n\nUnder Rushdoony, the Chalcedon Foundation grew to twelve staff members with 25,000–40,000 people on their mailing lists during the 1980s. Chalcedon and Reconstructionism obtained the support of major Christian book publishers and endorsements from influential evangelical leaders including Pat Robertson, Jerry Falwell and Frank Schaeffer (who later repudiated the movement).\n\nRJ Rushdoony died in 2001 with his children at his side. Rushdoony's son, the Rev. Mark R Rushdoony, became and remains the president of the Chalcedon Foundation and editor of the \"Chalcedon Report\".\n\nMichael J. McVicar summarized Rushdoony's theology and philosophy as follows:\n\nRushdoony developed his philosophy as an extension of the work of Calvinist philosopher Cornelius Van Til. Van Til critiqued human knowledge in light of the Calvinist doctrine of total depravity. He argued that sin affected a person's ability to reason. In order to be rational, Van Til claimed, one must presuppose the existence of God and the inerrant, divine inspiration of the (Protestant) Bible. Rushdoony attended to the implications – where Van Til held true knowledge came from God, Rushdoony asserted that \"all non-Christian knowledge is sinful, invalid nonsense. The only valid knowledge that non-Christians possess is 'stolen' from 'Christian-theistic' sources.\" In effect, Rushdoony extended Van Til's thinking from philosophy to \"all of life and thought.\"\n\nRushdoony began popularizing, albeit densely, the works of Calvinist philosophers Cornelius Van Til and Herman Dooyeweerd into a short survey of contemporary humanism called \"By What Standard?\". Arguing for a Calvinist system of thought, Rushdoony dealt with subjects as broad as epistemology and cognitive metaphysics and as narrow as the psychology of religion and predestination. He wrote a book, \"The One And The Many: Studies in the Philosophy of Order and Ultimacy\", using Van Tillian presuppositional philosophy to critique various aspects of secular humanism. He also wrote many essays and book reviews, published in such venues as the \"Westminster Theological Journal\".\n\nRushdoony's next focus was on education, especially on behalf of homeschooling, which he saw as a way to combat the intentionally secular nature of the U.S. public school system. By the early 1960s he was active in the homeschooling movement, appearing as an expert witness in order to defend the rights of homeschoolers. He vigorously attacked progressive school reformers such as Horace Mann and John Dewey and argued for the dismantling of the state's influence on education in three works: \"Intellectual Schizophrenia\" (a general and concise study of education), \"The Messianic Character of American Education\" (a history and castigation of public education in the U.S.), and \"The Philosophy of the Christian Curriculum\" (a parent-oriented pedagogical statement).\n\nRushdoony then pursued history – of the world, of the United States, and of the church. He maintained that Calvinistic Christianity provided the intellectual roots for the American Revolution and thus had always had an influential impact in American history. The American Revolution, according to Rushdoony, was a \"conservative counterrevolution\" to preserve American liberties from British usurpation and it owed nothing to the Enlightenment. He further argued that the United States Constitution was a secular document in appearance only; it didn't need to establish Christianity as an official religion since the states were already Christian establishments. Drawing on the work of theologian Robert Lewis Dabney, Rushdoony argued that the American Civil War \"destroyed the early American Republic, which he envisioned as a decentralized Protestant feudal system and an orthodox Christian nation\". Rushdoony\nsaw the North's victory as a \"defeat for Christian orthodoxy\".\nSome historians have argued that this aspect of Rushdoony's thought influenced some activists in the\nNeo-Confederate movement and Southern conservatives such as J. Steven Wilkins. He would further this study in his works on American ideology and historiography, \"This Independent Republic: Studies in the Nature and Meaning of American History\" and \"The Nature of the American System\".\n\nOn the matter of Israel's place in history, he believed that the prophet Daniel \"makes clear that God by-passed His chosen people in favor of four great monarchies...and then called forth a Fifth Monarchy which is by no means identified with Israel\".\n\nRushdoony's most important area of writing, however, was law and politics, as expressed in his small book of popular essays \"Law & Liberty\" and discussed in much greater detail in his three-volume, 1,894-page magnum opus, \"The Institutes of Biblical Law\". With a title modeled after Calvin's \"Institutes of the Christian Religion\", Rushdoony's \"Institutes\" was arguably his most influential work. In the book, he proposed that Old Testament law should be applied to modern society and that there should be a Christian theonomy, a concept developed in his colleague Greg Bahnsen's controversial book \"Theonomy in Christian Ethics,\" which Rushdoony heartily endorsed. In the \"Institutes\", Rushdoony supported the reinstatement of the Mosaic law's penal sanctions. Under such a system, the list of civil crimes which carried a death sentence would include homosexuality, adultery, incest, lying about one's virginity, bestiality, witchcraft, idolatry or apostasy, public blasphemy, false prophesying, kidnapping, rape, and bearing false witness in a capital case. Although he supported the separation of church and state at the national level, Rushdoony also believed that both institutions were under the rule of God, and thus he conceived secularism as posing endless false dichotomies, which his massive work addresses in considerable detail. In short, he sought to cast a vision for the reconstruction of society based on Christian principles. The book was critical of democracy. He wrote that \"the heresy of democracy has since then worked havoc in church and state ... Christianity and democracy are inevitably enemies\" because democracy asserts the will of man over the will of God.\n\nRushdoony believed that a republic is a better form of civil government than a democracy. According to Rushdoony, a republic avoided mob rule and the rule of the \"51%\" of society; in other words \"might does not make right\" in a republic. Rushdoony wrote that America's separation of powers between 3 branches of government is a far more neutral and better method of civil government than a direct democracy, stating \"[t]he [American] Constitution was designed to perpetuate a Christian order\". Rushdoony argues that the Constitution's purpose was to protect religion from the federal government and to preserve \"states' rights.\"\n\nRushdoony's work has been used by Dominion Theology advocates who attempt to implement a Christian government subject to Biblical law in the United States. Authority, behavioral boundaries, economics, penology and the like would all be governed by biblical principles in Rushdoony's vision, but he also proposed a wide system of freedom, especially in the economic sphere, and claimed Ludwig von Mises as an intellectual mentor; he called himself a Christian libertarian.\n\nRushdoony was the founder in 1965 of the Chalcedon Foundation and the editor of its monthly magazine, the \"Chalcedon Report\". He also published the \"Journal of Christian Reconstruction\" and was an early board member of the Rutherford Institute, founded in 1982 by John W. Whitehead.\n\nIn 1972, Cornelius Van Til \"disclaimed affiliation\" with Rushdoony and the Christian Reconstructionist movement, writing \"...I am frankly a little concerned about the political views of Mr. Rushdoony and Mr. North and particularly if I am correctly informed about some of the views Gary North has with respect to the application of Old Testament principles to our day. My only point is that I would hope and expect they would not claim such views are inherent in the principles I hold\".\n\nRushdoony was, and remains, a controversial figure, as is the Christian Reconstructionist movement in which he was involved. Pointing to Rushdoony's support for the death penalty, the British Centre for Science Education decried his perceived dislike of democracy and tolerance. Furthermore, Rushdoony has been accused of Holocaust denial and racism. According to Frank Schaeffer, Rushdoony believed that interracial marriage, which he referred to as \"unequal yoking\", should be made illegal. He also opposed \"enforced integration\", referred to Southern slavery as \"benevolent\", and said that \"some people are by nature slaves\". Kerwin Lee Klein, however, argues that Rushdoony was not a \"biological racialist\" and that for him \"racism founded on modern biology simply represented another pagan revival.\"\n\nIn \"The Institutes of Biblical Law\", he uses the 1967 work \"Judaism and the Vatican\" by Léon de Poncins as a source for Paul Rassinier's figure of 1.2 million Jewish deaths during the Holocaust, and the claim that Raul Hilberg calculated the number at 896,292, and further asserts that very many of these died of epidemics. He calls the charge of 6 million Jewish deaths \"false witness\" against Germany. In 2000, Rushdoony stated concerning this passage in his \"Institutes\": \"It was not my purpose to enter a debate over numbers, whether millions were killed, or tens of millions, an area which must be left to others with expertise in such matters. My point then and now is that in all such matters what the Ninth Commandment requires is the truth, not exaggeration, irrespective of the cause one seeks to serve.\" Carl R. Trueman, Professor of Historical Theology and Church History at Westminster Theological Seminary wrote in 2009 regarding the passage and Rushdoony's Holocaust denial:\n\nHis sources are atrocious, secondhand, and unverified; that he held this position speaks volumes about his appalling incompetence as a historian, and one can only speculate as to why he held the position from a moral perspective... He deals with the matter under the issue of the ninth commandment and, ironically breaches it himself in his presentation of the matter.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1543851", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1543851", "title": "Sacred dance", "text": "Sacred dance\n\nSacred dance is the use of dance in religious ceremonies and rituals, present in most religions throughout history and prehistory. Its connection with the body and fertility has caused it to be forbidden by some religions; for example, its acceptability in Christianity has varied widely. Dance has formed a major element of worship in Hindu temples with strictly formalized styles such as bharatanatyam, requiring skilled dancers and temple musicians. In the 20th century, sacred dance has been revived by choreographers such as Bernhard Wosien as a means of developing community spirit.\n\nW. O. E. Oesterley proposed in 1923 that sacred dance had several purposes, the most important being to honour the supernatural powers; the other purposes were to \"show off\" before the powers; to unite the dancer with the supernatural power (such as with the Greek goddesses Demeter and Persephone); making the body suitable as a temporary dwelling-place for the deity, by dancing to unconsciousness in ecstatic dance; making crops grow, or helping or encouraging the deity to make them grow (as with \"Ariadne's Dance\"); consecrating a victim for sacrifice (as with the Israelites circling the altar, or the Sarawak Kayans circling a sacrificial pig); paying homage to the deity present for an initiation ceremony; helping warriors to victory in battle, and appeasing the spirits of the enemy killed in battle; averting the dangers associated with marriage, at a wedding ceremony; and at a funeral or mourning ceremony, purposes such as driving away the malevolent ghost of the dead person, or preventing the ghost from leaving the grave, or frightening off any evil spirits attracted by the corpse, or temporarily and invisibly bringing the dead person back to join in the dance, or simply honouring the dead person.\n\nHarriet Lihs in 2009 divided religious dance into dances of imitation, such as of animals thought to be spirit messengers, or of battles; \"medicine dances\", i.e. dances of healing, like the serpent dances in India used to prevent disease; commemorative dances, for events such as the winter solstice; and dances for spiritual connection, as in the whirling dance of the Whirling Dervishes withn Sufism. \n\nLaura Shannon in 2018 stated the purposes of contemporary sacred dance as practised at the Findhorn Foundation as \"to be inclusive, mutually supportive, to connect with the earth, spirit and each other, and to become more whole.\" It was a means of channelling \"healing energy\" both for the dancers and for their families and communities, indeed for the whole world.\n\nWithin religion, ecstatic dance is one of the ways in which religious ecstasy is produced.\n\nIndigenous ceremonial dance rituals around the world appear to preserve forms that were widespread in ancient times. For example, processionals and circle dances seen in indigenous dance today were used in ancient Egypt and among the Hebrews. In ancient Egypt, dancers impersonated a deity such as the goddess Hathor, taking on the deity's attributes and interpreting the divine world for those watching. \n\nIn ancient Israel, King David danced \"before the Lord\". It is mentioned as something familiar, implying it was a common practice. Sacred dance is described in the Bible by verbs meaning dancing, rotating, jumping, skipping, and whirling. The dance was accompanied by hand-drums (tambourines), cymbals, flutes, pipes, lyres, harps, and lutes.\n\nThe Hittites are shown in a sacred processional dance in a c. 1200 BC rock inscription at the sanctuary of Yazılıkaya, near their city of Hattusa, in Cappadocia. A group of men wearing conical hats and tip-tilted shoes, and a group of women, dance in a running step towards a group of named gods and goddesses. \n\nIn ancient Greece, sacred dance was widespread; indeed, it formed a part of almost all worship, and the gods Apollo, Ares, Dionysus and Pan are all described as dancers, while other deities such as Artemis were described as dancing with their companions. \n\nThe Hawaiian Hula dances to Pele, the volcano goddess, survive, whereas European maypole dances have lost their meaning as tree-worship and survive only as folk tradition. \n\nLewis Farnell observed that sacred dance has an \"extraordinary uniformity\" among indigenous peoples all over the world, something that he found so striking that it suggested either \"belief in an ultimately identical tradition, or, perhaps more reasonably, the psychologic theory that ... [humans] at the same stage of development respond with the same ... religious act to the same stimuli\" from the environment. Oesterley suggested that these stimuli to sacred dance were people's response to supernatural power, and \"the obtaining of food.\" \n\nSome Christian traditions make use of liturgical or worship dance, but it has long been controversial within the church. It has been supported, sometimes fervently, by both priests and Christian scholars; and opposed, sometimes stridently, by others who for example wrote some 157 tracts against dance between 1685 and 1963. The early church was largely in favour of dance, as in the 2nd Century \"Acts of John\" which states that \"Grace danceth. I would pipe: dance ye all. The whole world on high hath part in our dancing.\" Circle dance is used, in its more meditative form, in worship within religious traditions including the Church of England.\n\nIn northern Greece and southern Bulgaria, in the annual celebrations for Saint Constantine and Saint Helen, dancers perform the Anastenaria, a fire-walking ritual, as the climax of three days of processions, music, dancing, and animal sacrifice.\n\nIndian classical dances such as Bharatanatyam, Kathak, Odissi, and Mohiniattam can be traced to the Sanskrit text \"Natya Shastra\". They are a traditional drama-dance expression of religion, related to Vaishnavism, Shaivism, Shaktism, pan-Hindu Epics and the Vedic literature. As a religious art, they are either performed inside the sanctum of a Hindu temple, or near it.\n\nDance is unusual within Islam, but circle dance is used in the Islamic Haḍra dances. In the tradition of the Mevlevi Order founded by Rumi, ecstatic Sufi whirling is practised by devotees as a form of active meditation within the Sama (worship ceremony). In 2007, Sufi practices including ecstatic dance and the reciting of religious poetry were a focus for political resistance in Iran, reportedly \"demoniz[ed]\" by Shi'a clerics.\n\nThe syncretic Afro-American religious tradition Candomblé, practiced mainly in Brazil, makes use of music and ecstatic dance in which worshippers become possessed by their own tutelary deities, Orishas.\n\nChoreographers starting with Isadora Duncan, Ruth St. Denis and her husband Ted Shawn, and Martha Graham developed contemporary dance early in the 20th century, often using elements of sacred dance and fusing them with other genres. Later choreographers also made use of themes from the bible.\n\nThe mystic and spiritual teacher George Gurdjieff collected or authored a series of sacred dances, known as Gurdjieff movements, and taught them to his students as part of what he considered the work of \"self observation\" and \"self study\".\n\nThe Dances of Universal Peace, created by North American Sufis, use dancing, Sufi whirling, and singing of sacred phrases from different religions to raise consciousness and promote peace between diverse religions.\n\nFrom 1976, the ballet master and choreographer introduced circle dance at the Findhorn Foundation in Scotland. He used both traditional dances and his own choreography to develop \"group awareness\". Wosien's approach was taken up by Anna Barton, both at Findhorn and across Europe in the 1980s, and this style of sacred dance spread around the world.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8703380", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8703380", "title": "Sandy Stone (artist)", "text": "Sandy Stone (artist)\n\nAllucquére Rosanne \"Sandy\" Stone (born c. 1936) is an American academic theorist, media theorist, author, and performance artist. She is currently Associate Professor and Founding Director of the Advanced Communication Technologies Laboratory (ACTLab) and the New Media Initiative in the department of Radio-TV-Film at the University of Texas at Austin. Concurrently she is Wolfgang Kohler Professor of Media and Performance at the European Graduate School EGS, senior artist at the Banff Centre, and Humanities Research Institute Fellow at the University of California, Irvine. Stone has worked in and written about film, music, experimental neurology, writing, engineering, and computer programming. Stone is transgender and is considered a founder of the academic discipline of transgender studies. She has been profiled in \"ArtForum\", \"Wired\", \"Mondo 2000,\" and other publications, and been interviewed for documentaries like Traceroute.\n\nStone was born in Jersey City, New Jersey in 1936. Stone is Jewish and has stated her original name was \"Zelig Ben-Nausaan Cohen in Hebrew.\"\n\nStone has stated that she disliked formal education and preferred auditing classes with university professors whose work she admired. She has stated she worked at Bell Telephone Laboratories, then worked odd jobs to support her own research. She later graduated from St. John's College in Annapolis, Maryland, receiving a B.A. in 1965.\n\nIn the late 1960s Stone moved to New York City and embarked on a career as a recording engineer, initially on the East Coast, and later on the West Coast. In 1969, Stone wrote about an April 7 recording session at Record Plant Studios with Jimi Hendrix for \"Zygote\" magazine. According to journalist David S. Bennahum, Stone \"used to wear a long black cape and full beard.\"\n\nIn the early 1970s, Stone published several science fiction pieces under the pen name Sandy Fisher in \"The Magazine of Fantasy and Science Fiction\" and \"Galaxy\" magazine.\n\nIn 1974 Stone withdrew from mainstream recording, settled in Santa Cruz, California, and underwent gender reassignment with Donald Laub at the Stanford Gender Dysphoria Program in Palo Alto. Later she became a member of the Olivia Records collective, a popular women's music label, and began collaboration within lesbian feminist circles. She was Olivia's sound engineer from ca. 1974-1978, recording and mixing all Olivia product during this period. \n\nIn the early 1980s, Stone built a small computer, taught herself programming, and became a freelance coder, eventually becoming recognized as a computer expert.\n\nIn 1979, the lesbian feminist scholar Janice Raymond mounted an \"ad hominem\" attack on Stone in \"\". Raymond accused Stone by name of plotting to destroy the Olivia Records collective and womanhood in general with \"male energy.\" In 1976, prior to publication, Raymond had sent a draft of the chapter attacking Stone to the Olivia collective \"for comment\", apparently in anticipation of outing Stone. Raymond appeared unaware that Stone had informed the collective of her transgender status before agreeing to join. The collective did return comments to Raymond, suggesting that her description of transgender and of Stone's place in and effect on the collective was at odds with the reality of the collective's interaction with Stone. Raymond responded by increasing the virulence of her attack on Stone in the published version of the manuscript:\n\nMasculine behavior is notably obtrusive. It is significant that transsexually constructed lesbian feminists have inserted themselves into positions of importance and/or performance in the feminist community. Sandy Stone, the transsexual engineer with Olivia Records, an \"all-women\" recording company, illustrates this well. Stone is not only crucial to the Olivia enterprise but plays a very dominant role there. The...visibility he achieved in the aftermath of the Olivia controversy...only serves to enhance his previously dominant role and to divide women, as men frequently do, when they make their presence necessary and vital to women. As one woman wrote: \"I feel raped when Olivia passes off Sandy...as a real woman. After all his male privilege, is he going to cash in on lesbian feminist culture too?\"\n\nThe collective responded in turn by publicly defending Stone in various feminist publications of the time. Stone continued as a member of the collective and continued to record Olivia artists until political dissension over her transgender status, exacerbated by Raymond's book, culminated in 1979 in the threat of a boycott of Olivia products. After long debate, Stone left the collective and returned to Santa Cruz.\n\nIn 1983 Stone befriended cultural theorist Donna Haraway, a faculty member in the History of Consciousness program at the University of California, Santa Cruz. Haraway was in the process of writing the watershed essay \"A Manifesto for Cyborgs\". While Stone was studying for her doctorate with Haraway and James Clifford, she produced the seminal 1987 essay \"The \"Empire\" Strikes Back: A Posttranssexual Manifesto\". After considerable discussion with Haraway, she began writing:\n\nDonna and I discussed it several times, and Donna was amazing. Not once did she say I should or shouldn't. What she did say was that it was my choice, and nobody else's. During those discussions I realized very powerfully that I was in the presence of a person who in her own time had made her own hard choices, and sometimes paid a terrible price, but kept on stepping up to the plate and hitting them out of the park, and that's what I was learning from her. Theory, of course theory. But courage, how do you teach courage? American academics give plenty of lip service to speaking truth to power, and then they run like scared rabbits, but here I was, gifted with being in the presence of an astonishingly courageous person. Now it was my turn, and I had to stand up to that level of self-honesty and be equal to it. We both knew that publishing the \"Posttranssexual Manifesto\" could be a career-ending move. But I think Donna knew, as I knew, that if I didn't publish I wouldn't be able to live with myself afterward. So I published. You know the rest.\n\nThe work was influenced by early versions of Haraway's \"A Cyborg Manifesto\" and first published in \"Social Text\", and by the turbulent political foment in cultural feminism of that period. Susan Stryker and Stephen Whittle situate Stone's work in the turbulent events of the time as a response to Raymond's attack:\n\nStone exacts her revenge more than a decade later, not by waging an anti-feminist counterattack on Raymond, but by undermining the foundationalist assumptions that support Raymond's narrower concept of womanhood, and by claiming a speaking position for transsexuals that cannot be automatically dismissed as damaged, deluded, second-rate, or somehow inherently compromised.\n\nAn important point of the essay was that transgender persons were ill-served by hiding their status, and that coming out—which Stone called \"reading oneself aloud\"—would inevitably lead to self-empowerment. Thus \"The \"Empire\" Strikes Back\" rearticulated what was at the time a radical gay-lesbian political statement into a transgender voice. During this period, mainstream gay and lesbian activists generally suppressed transgender issues and visible transgender activists, fearing that they would frighten the uncertain and still shaky liberal base during a delicate period of consolidation. \"The \"Empire\" Strikes Back\" galvanized young transgender scholars and focused their attention on the need for self-assertion within a largely reactionary institutional structure. \"The \"Empire\" Strikes Back\" later became the center of an extensive citation network of transgender academics and a foundational work for transgender researchers and theorists. Stryker and Whittle, writing in \"The Transgender Studies Reader\", refer to \"The \"Empire\" Strikes Back\" as\n\nthe protean text from which contemporary transgender studies emerged...In the wake of (the) article, a gradual but steady body of new academic and creative work by transgender people has gradually taken shape, which has enriched virtually every academic and artistic discipline with new critical perspectives on gender.\n\nAs of 2007, \"The \"Empire\" Strikes Back\" had been translated into twenty-seven languages and had been cited in hundreds of publications.\n\nIn 2011, Indiana University Bloomington hosted a conference honoring the twentieth anniversary of the publication of \"The \"Empire\" Strikes Back\". Stone was guest of honor, and while onstage commented \"Last year I was invited to a conference about my work on four days' notice. I asked why they waited until the last minute, and they said they would have invited me sooner, but because I was considered a founder of the field they assumed I was dead. I'm not.\"\n\nFrom 1987 to 1993 Stone was Haraway's student, marking Stone's return to academia. At Haraway's suggestion Stone visited University of California, San Diego campus as an exchange student in the newly formed Science Studies program. Following a dispute between progressive and conservative faculty factions, Stone was offered a job as Instructor in the Department of Sociology, teaching courses in sociology, anthropology, political science, English, communications, and the experimental program \"The Making of the Modern World.\", In 1992, she took an appointment as an Assistant Professor at the University of Texas, Austin.\n\nStone received her doctorate in 1993. Her dissertation, \"Presence\", which Haraway supervised, was published in 1996 by MIT Press as \"The War of Desire and Technology at the Close of the Mechanical Age\". Stone described the work as \"creat(ing) a discourse which contains all the elements of the original discourse but which is quite different from it...remember that at heart I am a narrator, a shameless teller of stories.\" In the years following the book's publication, several major social science departments fractured into separate departments along lines that in part came to be drawn by reference to \"Desire and Technology\" and other, similar publications.\n\nBeginning in 1993, Stone established the New Media program she named ACTLab (Advanced Communication Technologies Laboratory) in the Radio-Television-Film department. This work, and research in virtual communities, social software, and novel methods of presenting academic topics, drew wide attention, and contributed to the establishment and legitimation of what is now generally called New Media Art.\n\nStone's work and presence in the RTF department has been bitterly contested by powerful conservative faculty members, who have repeatedly tried to remove or marginalize her. In 1998 this small but vocal group issued a negative departmental report recommending that Stone be denied tenure. The university overruled this report, citing Stone's contributions to multiple fields and reaffirming its commitment to original or unusual scholarship.\n\nGranting Stone tenure had the negative effect of provoking attacks on her work and credibility by powerful conservative faculty within the RTF department, which for years has responded to inquiries with the statement that there is no New Media program or program called ACTLab within the department. (Based on university course listings and rosters, as of 2007 there were approximately 70 ACTLab students in active courses, 400 former students, and 2500 student webpages on the ACTLab website. The program attracts students from a broad range of departments and from other institutions.) In a 2006 talk at Arizona State University, Stone compared the RTF department's attempts to erase her work and presence to previous efforts by conservative administrators to deny voice to any unfamiliar or emergent disciplines or unusual people, and said it was merely to be expected.\n\nStone's career has been controversial. In the mid-1990s she gave several highly publicized interviews during which she suggested that the era of academic scholarship, as the term was generally understood, was over:\nThe reality of the situation is that academicians are no longer the sole privileged custodians of objects of knowledge called books...in an era in our developed nations when the ubiquity of almost instantaneous communication puts us in a situation where almost everything is everywhen, the imperial mandate of the university as a privileged site of truth and an authorization for guild membership has evaporated; though, like the dinosaur, it may take a while for that knowledge to reach the central nervous system.\nSince that time, although Stone continued to tour extensively, to present \"theoryperformances\" and formal theatrical performances, and to address her work to a wide variety of audiences across broad sampling of disciplines and skills, she has published less and less in print journals. This reached the extent that a group of her students took up the practice of recording, transcribing and printing her in-class lectures for their own use.\n\nIn 1999, she appeared in Gendernauts: A Journey Through Shifting Identities a film by Monika Treut featuring Texas Tomboy, Susan Stryker, and Hida Viloria, a group of artists in San Francisco who live between the poles of conventional gender identities.\n\nIn 2006, Stone began touring a theatrical performance titled \"The Neovagina Monologues\", modeled on the work of Spalding Gray, although the title is a tribute to a work by Eve Ensler.\n\nIn 2010 Stone retired from her position at the University of Texas, becoming Professor Emerita and continuing her ACTLab work by launching several programs based on the ACTLab model, most notably the ACTLab@EGS program at the European Graduate School in Saas-Fee, Switzerland. The ACTLab pedagogical model brought her international recognition; subsequently the ACTLab framework for education in the arts and technology has been adopted by many other programs such as the Entertainment Technology Center at Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh and the New Media Innovation Lab at Arizona State University at Tempe. As of 2011 she was actively touring, speaking and performing, and had mounted several gallery installations of interactive art.\n\nDuring online virtual community research in 1994 Stone met Cynbe ru Taren (Jeffrey Prothero), a researcher, programmer and virtual worlds creator, who authored \"Citadel\", an influential bulletin board system. Stone and ru Taren were married in 1995. Currently Stone and ru Taren divide their time between Santa Cruz and Austin. His extended family and her daughter, Tanith Stone Thole, also live in Santa Cruz.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53086", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53086", "title": "Satanic Verses", "text": "Satanic Verses\n\nThe Satanic Verses incident, known as \"qissat al-gharaniq\" (\"Story of the Cranes\"), is the name given to the occasion on which the Islamic Prophet Muhammad, is said to have mistaken the words of \"satanic suggestion\" for divine revelation. Narratives involving the alleged verses (or verse) can be read in, among other places, the biographies of Muhammad by al-Wāqidī, Ibn Sa'd (who was a scribe of Waqidi) and Ibn Ishaq (as reconstructed by Alfred Guillaume), as well as the tafsir of al-Tabarī.\n\nThe majority of Muslim scholars have rejected the historicity of the incident on the basis of the theological doctrine of \"'isma\" (prophetic infallibility i.e., divine protection of Muhammad from mistakes) and their weak \"isnads\" (chains of transmission). Orientalist scholars on the other hand have largely accepted the historicity, citing the implausibility of early Muslim biographers \"fabricating a story so unflattering about their prophet\" as one of various reasons.\n\nThe first use of the expression 'Satanic Verses' is attributed to Sir William Muir (1858). The plural \"verses\" is usually employed even though the passage in question is only six words in Arabic.\n\nThere are numerous accounts reporting the alleged incident, which differ in the construction and detail of the narrative, but they may be broadly collated to produce a basic account. The different versions of the story are all traceable to one single narrator Muhammad ibn Ka'b, who was two generations removed from biographer Ibn Ishaq. In its essential form, the story reports that Muhammad longed to convert his kinsmen and neighbors of Mecca to Islam. As he was reciting these verses of Sūrat an-Najm, considered a revelation from the angel Gabriel,\n\nSatan tempted him to utter the following line:\n\nAllāt, al-'Uzzā and Manāt were three goddesses worshipped by the Meccans. Discerning the meaning of \"gharāniq\" is difficult, as it is a \"hapax legomenon\" (i.e. only used once in the text). Commentators wrote that it meant the cranes. The Arabic word does generally mean a \"crane\" - appearing in the singular as \"ghirnīq, ghurnūq, ghirnawq\" and \"ghurnayq\", and the word has cousin forms in other words for birds, including \"raven, crow\" and \"eagle\".\n\nAccording to Muslim orthodoxy, the actual account of events holds that a group of some of the chiefs of the Quraish (the tribe of Makkah polytheists persecuting the Muslims) happened to be passing by as The Prophet was reciting verses from the Qur'an. It moved their hearts so much, that they instantly fell down on their faces in prostration, and bore witness it was from Allah alone. Then some of their peers happened by, and began to accost them and threaten them, and made them feel ashamed, so they denied what had happened, and said that they only fell down in prostration, because The Prophet gave a concession allowing for them to keep their idol worship yet still be Muslim.\n\nThe Satanic Verses incident is reported in the tafsir and the sira-maghazi literature dating from the first two centuries of Islam, and is reported in the respective tafsīr corpuses transmitted from almost every Qur'anic commentator of note in the first two centuries of the hijra. \nAccording to Ibn Taymiyyah: \"The early Islamic Scholars (Salaf) collectively considered the Verses of Cranes in accordance with Quran. And from the later coming scholars (Khalaf), who followed the opinion of the early scholars, they say that these traditions have been recorded with authentic chain of narration and it is impossible to deny them, and Quran is itself testifying it.\" \nIt is generally considered a fabricated incident as the chains of narration are weak. The earliest biography of Muhammad, Ibn Ishaq (761–767) is lost but his collection of traditions survives mainly in two sources: Ibn Hisham (833) and al-Tabari (915). The story appears in al-Tabari, who includes Ibn Ishaq in the chain of transmission, but not in Ibn Hisham, who admits in the preface of his text that he omitted matters from Ibn Ishaq's biography that \"would distress certain people\". Ibn Sa'd and Al-Waqidi, two other early biographers of Muhammad relate the story. Scholars such as Uri Rubin and Shahab Ahmed and Guillaume hold that the report was in Ibn Ishaq, while Alford T. Welch holds the report has not been presumably present in the Ibn Ishaq.\n\nDue to its defective chain of narration, the tradition of the Satanic Verses never made it into any of the canonical hadith compilations (though see below for possible truncated versions of the incident that did). The reference and exegesis about the Verses appear in early histories. In addition to appearing in Tabarī's \"Tafsīr\", it is used in the tafsīrs of Muqātil, ‘Abdu r-Razzāq and Ibn Kathir as well as the \"naskh\" of Abu Ja‘far an-Nahhās, the asbāb collection of Wāhidī and even the late-medieval as-Suyūtī's compilation \"al-Durr al-Manthūr fil-Tafsīr bil-Mathūr\".\n\nObjections to the incident were raised as early as the fourth Islamic century, such as in the work of an-Nahhās and continued to be raised throughout later generations by scholars such as Abu Bakr ibn al-‘Arabi (d. 1157), Fakhr ad-Din Razi (1220) as well as al-Qurtubi (1285). The most comprehensive argument presented against the factuality of the incident came in Qadi Iyad's \"ash-Shifa‘\". The incident was discounted on two main bases. The first was that the incident contradicted the doctrine of \"isma‘\", divine protection of Muhammad from mistakes. The second was that the descriptions of the chain of transmission extant since that period are not complete and sound (sahih). Ibn Kathir points out in his commentary that the various isnads available to him by which the story was transmitted were almost all mursal, or without a companion of Muhammad in their chain. Uri Rubin asserts that there exists a complete version of the isnad continuing to ibn ‘Abbās, but this only survives in a few sources. He claims that the name of ibn ‘Abbās was part of the original isnad, and was removed so that the incident could be deprived of its sahih isnad and discredited.\n\nImam Fakhr al-Din al-Razi commenting on Surah 22:52 in his Tafsir al-Kabir stated that the \"people of verification\" declared the story as an outright fabrication, citing supporting arguments from the Qur’an, Sunnah and reason. He then reported that the preeminent Muhaddith Ibn Khuzaymah said: \"it is an invention of the heretics\" when once asked about it. Al-Razi also recorded that al-Bayhaqi stated that the narration of the story was unreliable because its narrators were of questionable integrity.\n\nThose scholars who acknowledged the historicity of the incident apparently had a different method for the assessment of reports than that which has become standard Islamic methodology. For example, Ibn Taymiyyah took the position that since tafsir and sira-maghazi reports were commonly transmitted by incomplete isnads, these reports should not be assessed according to the completeness of the chains but rather on the basis of recurrent transmission of common meaning between reports.\n\nAl-Qurtubi (\"al-Jāmi' li ahkām al-Qur'ān\") dismisses all these variants in favor of the explanation that once Sūra al-Najm was safely revealed the basic events of the incident (or rumors of them) \"were now permitted to occur to identify those of his followers who would accept Muhammad's explanation of the blasphemous imposture\" (\"JSS\" 15, pp. 254–255).\n\nWhile Ibn Hajar al-Asqallani wrote: \"All the chains of this narration are weak, except of Said Ibn Jubayr. And when one incident is reported from many different chains, then it means there is something real in this incident. Moreover, this incident has also been narrated through 2 Mursal (where chain goes upto Successer i.e. Tabai) traditions, whose chains of narration are authentic according to the standards of Imam Bukhari and Imam Muslim. First one is what Tabari recorded from Younus bin Yazid, he from Ibn Shahab that Abu Bakr Ibn Abdul Rehman narrated me. While second one which Tabari recorded from Mutabar bin Sulayman and Hammad bin Salama, and they from Dawud bin Abi Hind, and he from Abu Aliya ... Ibn Arabi and Qadhi Ayyad say there is no proof of this incident, but contrary to their claim when one incident comes through different chain of narrations, then it means that this incident is real. While there are not only multiple chain of narrations about this incident, but also 3 of them are authentic while 2 of them are Mursal narrations.\" \n\nWhile the authors of the tafsir texts during the first two centuries of the Islamic era do \nnot seem to have regarded the tradition as in any way inauspicious or unflattering to Muhammad, \nit seems to have been universally rejected by at least the 13th century, and most modern Muslims likewise see the tradition as problematic, in the sense that it is viewed as \n\"profoundly heretical because, by allowing for the intercession of the three pagan female deities, they eroded the authority and omnipotence of Allah. But they also hold... damaging implications in regard to the revelation as a whole, for Muhammad’s revelation appears to have been based on his desire to soften the threat to the deities of the people.\" Different responses have developed concerning the account.\n\nAll modern Muslim scholars have rejected the story.\nArguments for rejection are found in Muhammad Abduh's article \"Masʾalat al-gharānīq wa-tafsīr al-āyāt\", \nMuhammad Husayn Haykal's \"Hayat Muhammad\", \nSayyid Qutb's \"Fi Zilal al-Quran\" (1965),\nAbul Ala Maududi's \"Tafhim al-Quran\" and \nMuhammad Nasiruddin al-Albani's \"Nasb al-majānīq li-nasf al-gharānīq\".\n\nHaykal points out the many forms and versions of the story and their inconsistencies and argues that \"the contextual flow of Surah 'al Najm' does not allow at all the inclusion of such verses as the story claims\". \nHaykal quotes Muhammad Abduh who pointed out that the \"Arabs have nowhere described their gods in such terms as 'al gharaniq'. Neither in their poetry nor in their speeches or traditions do we find their gods or goddesses described in such terms. Rather, the word 'al ghurnuq' or 'al gharniq' was the name of a black or white water bird, sometimes given figuratively to the handsome blond youth.\" Lastly, Haykal argues that the story is inconsistent with Muhammad's personal life and is completely against the spirit of the Islamic message.\n\nAqa Mahdi Puya has said that these fake verses were shouted out by the Meccans to make it look like it was Muhammad who said it; he writes:\n\nSome pagans and hypocrites planned secretly to recite words praising idolatry alongside the recitation of the Holy Prophet, while he was praying, in such a way that the people would think as if they were recited by him. Once when the Holy Prophet was reciting verses 19 and 20 of Najm one of the pagans recited: \"Tilkal gharani-ul ula wa inna shafa-atahuma laturja\"-(These are the lofty (idols), verily their intercession is sought after.) As soon as this was recited the conspirators shouted in delight to make the people believe that it was the Holy Prophet who said these words. Here, the Quran is stating the general pattern the enemies of the messengers of Allah followed when they were positively convinced that the people were paying attention to the teachings of the messengers of Allah and sincerely believing in them. They would mix their false doctrines with the original teachings so as to make the divine message a bundle of contradictions. This kind of satanic insertions are referred to in thus verse, and it is supported by Ha Mim: 26. It is sheer blasphemy to say that satanic forces can influence the messengers of Allah.\nThis entire matter was a mere footnote to the back-and-forth of religious debate, and was rekindled only when Salman Rushdie's 1988 novel, \"The Satanic Verses\", made headline news. The novel contains some fictionalized allusions to Islamic history, which provoked both controversy and outrage. Muslims around the world protested the book's publishing, and Iran's Ayatollah Khomeini issued a fatwa sentencing Rushdie to death, saying that the book blasphemed Muhammad and his wives.\n\nSince William Muir, the historicity of this episode has been largely accepted by orientalists. Some orientalists, however, argued against the historic authenticity of these verses on various grounds.\n\nWilliam Montgomery Watt and Alfred Guillaume claim that stories of the event were true based upon the implausibility of Muslims fabricating a story so unflattering to their prophet: \"Muhammad must have publicly recited the satanic verses as part of the Qur'ān; it is unthinkable that the story could have been invented by Muslims, or foisted upon them by non-Muslims.\" Trude Ehlert, in the Encyclopaedia of Islam, finds Watt's reason to be insufficient, stating \"The story in its present form (as related by al-Ṭabarī, al-Wāḳidī, and Ibn Saʿd) cannot be accepted as historical for a variety of reasons\".\n\nRegarding this argument, Shahab Ahmed in the \"Encyclopaedia of the Qur'ān\" counters that \"the widespread acceptance of the incident by early Muslims suggests, however, that they did not view the incident as inauspicious and that they would presumably not have, on this basis at least, been adverse to inventing it.\" \nSimilarly, Alford T. Welch, in the \"Encyclopaedia of Islam\", argues that the \"implausibility\" argument alone is insufficient to guarantee the tradition's authenticity. He says that the story in its present form is certainly a later, exegetical fabrication despite the fact that there could be some historical basis for the story.\n\nWelch states that the story falsely claims that the chapter 53:1-20 and the end of the chapter are a unity, and that the date for the verse 22:52 is later than 53:21-7, and almost certainly belongs to the Medinan period. Several other details in the setting of the story, such as the mosque and the sajda, do not belong to the Meccan phase of Muhammad's career. Welch also points out that the story was not mentioned in the Ibn Ishaq's biography of Muhammad. He says that the above analysis does not rule out \"the possibility of some historical kernel behind the story.\" One such possibility, Welch says, is that the story is of a historical telescoping nature: \"that a situation that was known by Muhammad's contemporaries to have lasted for a long period of time later came to be encapsulated in a story that restricts his acceptance of intercession through these goddesses to a brief period of time and places the responsibility for this departure from a strict monotheism on Satan.\"\n\nJohn Burton argued for its fictitiousness based upon a demonstration of its actual utility to certain elements of the Muslim community – namely, those legal exegetes seeking an \"occasion of revelation\" for eradicative modes of abrogation. Burton supports his theory by the fact that Tabari does not discuss the story in his exegesis of the verse 53:20, but rather in 22:52. Burton further notes that different versions of the story are all tracable to one single narrator Muhammad ibn Ka'b, two generations removed from Ibn Ishaq, but not contemporary with the event. G.R. Hawting writes that the satanic verses incident would not serve to justify or exemplify a theory that God reveals something and later replaces it himself with another true revelation. Burton, in his rejection of the authenticity of the story, sided with Leone Caetani, who wrote that the story was to be rejected not only on the basis of \"isnad\", but because \"had these hadiths even a degree of historical basis, Muhammad's reported conduct on this occasion would have given the lie to the whole of his previous prophetic activity.\"\n\nMaxime Rodinson finds that it may reasonably be accepted as true \"because the makers of Muslim tradition would never have invented a story with such damaging implications for the revelation as a whole.\" He writes the following on the genesis of the verses: \"Obviously Muhammad's unconscious had suggested to him a formula which provided a practical road to unanimity.\" Rodinson writes that this concession, however, diminished the threat of the Last Judgment by enabling the three goddess into intercede for sinners and save them from eternal damnation. Further, it diminished Muhammad's own authority by giving the priests of Uzza, Manat, and Allat the ability to pronounce oracles contradicting his message. Disparagement from Christians and Jews, who pointed out that he was reverting to his pagan beginnings, combined with opposition and indignation from his own followers influenced him to recant his revelation. However, in doing so he denounced the gods of Mecca as lesser spirits or mere names, cast off everything related to the traditional religion as the work of pagans and unbelievers, and consigned the Meccan's pious ancestors and relatives to Hell. This was the final break with the Quraysh.\n\nFred Halliday states that rather than having damaging implications, the story is a cautionary tale, the point of which is \"not to malign God but to point up the frailty of human beings,\" and that even a prophet may be misled by shaytan — though ultimately shaytan is unsuccessful.\n\nSince John Wansbrough's contributions to the field in the early 1970s, though, scholars have become much more attentive to the emergent nature of early Islam, and less willing to accept back-projected claims of continuity:\n\nTo those who see the tradition as constantly evolving and supplying answers to question that it itself has raised, the argument that there would be no reason to develop and transmit material which seems derogatory of the Prophet or of Islam is too simple. For one thing, ideas about what is derogatory may change over time. We know that the doctrine of the Prophet's infallibility and impeccability (the doctrine regarding his \"'isma\") emerged only slowly. For another, material which we now find in the biography of the Prophet originated in various circumstances to meet various needs and one has to understand why material exists before one can make a judgment about its basis in fact...\nIn Rubin's recent contribution to the debate, questions of historicity are completely eschewed in favor of an examination of internal textual dynamics and what they reveal about early medieval Islam. Rubin claims to have located the genesis of many prophetic traditions and that they show an early Muslim desire to prove to other scriptuaries \"that Muhammad did indeed belong to the same exclusive predestined chain of prophets in whom the Jews and the Christians believed. He alleges that the Muslims had to establish the story of Muhammad's life on the same literary patterns as were used in the \"vitae\" of the other prophets\". The incident of the Satanic Verses, according to him, conforms to the common theme of persecution followed by isolation of the prophet-figure.\n\nAs the story was adapted to include Qur'ānic material (Q.22:50, Q.53, Q.17:73-74), the idea of satanic temptation was claimed to have been added, heightening its inherent drama as well as incorporating additional Biblical motifs (cf. the Temptation of Christ). Rubin gives his attention to the narratological exigencies which may have shaped early \"sīra\" material, as opposed to the more commonly considered ones of dogma, sect, and political/dynastic faction. Given the consensus that \"the most archaic layer of the biography, [is] that of the stories of the \"kussās\" [i.e. popular story-tellers]\" (\"Sīra\", \"EI²\"), this may prove a fruitful line of inquiry.\n\nAlthough there could be some historical basis for the story, in its present form it is certainly a later, exegetical fabrication. \"Sūra\" LIII, 1-20 and the end of the \"sūra\" are not a unity, as is claimed by the story; XXII, 52, is later than LIII, 21-7, and is almost certainly Medinan (see Bell, \"Trans.\", 316, 322); and several details of the story- the mosque, the \"sajda\", and others not mentioned in the short summary above- do not belong to the Meccan phase.\n\nRubin also claimed that the supposed temporary control taken by Satan over Muhammad made such traditions unacceptable to early hadith compilers, which he believed to be a unique case in which a group of traditions are rejected only after being subject to Qur'anic models, and as a direct result of this adjustment.\n\nSeveral related traditions exist, some adapted to Qur'ānic material, some not. One version, appearing in Tabarī's \"Tafsīr\" and attributed to Urwah ibn Zubayr (d. 713), preserves the basic narrative but with no mention of satanic temptation. Muhammad is persecuted by the Meccans after attacking their idols, during which time a group of Muslims seeks refuge in Abyssinia. After the cessation of this first round of persecution (\"fitna\") they return home, but soon a second round begins. No compelling reason is provided for the caesura of persecution, though, unlike in the incident of the satanic verses, where it is the (temporary) fruit of Muhammad's accommodation to Meccan polytheism. Another version attributed to 'Urwa has only one round of \"fitna\", which begins after Muhammad has converted the entire population of Mecca, so that the Muslims are too numerous to perform ritual prostration (\"sūjud\") all together. This somewhat parallels the Muslims and \"mushrikūn\" prostrating themselves together after Muhammad's first, allegedly satanically infected, recitation of \"Sūra al-Najm\", in which the efficacy of the three pagan goddesses is acknowledged (Rubin, pp. 157–158).\n\nThe image of Muslims and pagans prostrating themselves together in prayer in turn links the story of the satanic verses to very abbreviated \"sūjud al-Qur'ān\" (i.e. prostration when reciting the Qur'ān) traditions found in the authoritative \"mussanaf\" \"hadīth\" collections, including the Sunni canonical ones of Bukhāri and Tirmidhī. Rubin claims that apparently \"the allusion to the participation of the \"mushrikūn\" emphasises how overwhelming and intense the effect of this \"sūra\" was on those attending\". The traditions actually state that all cognizant creatures took part in it, humans as well as jinns.\n\nRubin further argues that this is inherently illogical without the Satanic Verses in the recitation, given that in the accepted version of verses Q.53:19-23, the pagans' goddesses are attacked. The majority of traditions relating to prostration at the end of \"Sūra al-Najm\" solve this by either removing all mention of the \"mushrikūn\", or else transforming the attempt of an old Meccan to participate (who, instead of bowing to the ground, puts dirt to his forehead proclaiming \"This is sufficient for me\") into an act of mockery. Some traditions even describe his eventual comeuppance, saying he is later killed at the battle of Badr.\n\nAn extensive account of the incident is found in al-Tabāri's history, the \"Ta'rīkh\" (Vol. I)(circa 915 CE):\n\nHowever in the introduction of his book he states:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34336531", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34336531", "title": "Tekmor", "text": "Tekmor\n\nIn Greek mythology, Tekmor () is a primeval goddess, related with the limit and end of life. In the cosmogony of Alcman (7th century BC), she appears together with Poros (path) immediately after the creation. Tekmor may be related with the Homeric Moira and with Ananke, (necessity) the primeval goddess of inevitability in Orphic cosmogony. She is absent in later Greek cosmogonies and in Greek literature. It seems that she represented a universal principle of natural order. The Greek writers named this power Moira (Fate), or Ananke (necessity), and even the gods could not alter what was ordained.\n\nThe Ancient Greek word \"tekmar\" (or \"tekmor\": , only in Homer) means fixed mark or boundary, goal, end or purpose. (, \"tekmar aionos\": end, object, purpose of the century, : \"hiketo tekmor\": he reached the goal). It also means sure sign, or token of some high and solemn kind, sign in heavens, or of the moon. In modern Greek the word is the root of the word \"tekmirion\" (: proof, evidence, or conclusion from existing evidence.)\n\nThe word is related with the English word \"token\" meaning sign, evidence, which is derived from the PIE base \"*deik\"- to show. Old English \"tacen\" (sign, symbol, evidence), Old Norse \"teikn\" (zodiac sign, omen, token), Gothic \"taikn\", (sign, token). The relative Sanskrit word \"Iaksmlka\" meaning mark, sign or token, is the root of the name of the goddess Laksmi.\n\nIn the cosmogony of Alcman (7th century BC), first came Thetis (Disposer, Creation), and then simultaneously Poros (Path, Contriver) and \"Tekmor\". \nTekmor came into being after Poros . . . thereupon . . . called him Poros (Contriver) since the beginning provided all things; for when the matter began to be set in order, a certain Poros came into being as a beginning. So Alcman represents the matter of all things as confused and unformed.\nThen he says that one came into being who set all things in order, then that Poros came into being, and that when Poros had passed by Tekmor followed.And Poros is as a beginning, Tekmor like an end. When Thetis (Creation) had come into being, a beginning and end of all things came into being simultaneously, and all things have their nature resembling the matter of bronze, while Thetis has hers resembling that of a craftsman, Poros and Tekmor resembling a beginning and the end. \n\nLater in the Orphic cosmogony, first came Thesis (Disposer), whose inefflable nature is unexpressed. Ananke (necessity) is the primeval goddess of inevitability who is entwined with the time-god Chronos, at the very beginning of time. They represented the cosmic forces of Fate and Time, and they were called sometimes to control the fates of the gods. The three Moirai are daughters of Ananke.\n\nIn the Homeric poems the word usually means \"end\" (\"eureto tekmor\", : he found an end, i.e. devised a remedy), or termination (\"oude ti tekmor euremenai dynasai\", : you cannot find a termination). It also means sure sign, or token of some high and solemn kind, as Zeus says that his nod is the highest, surest pledge he can give.\n\nThe words \"moira\", \"aisa\", (destiny) mean portion, part. Originally they did not indicate a power which led destiny, and must be considered to include the \"ascertainment\" or \"proof\". In Mycenean religion Aisa or Moira was originally an abstract power related with the limit and end of life.\n\n"}
{"id": "84966", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=84966", "title": "Turnus", "text": "Turnus\n\nIn Virgil's \"Aeneid\", Turnus was the King of the Rutuli, and the chief antagonist of the hero Aeneas.\n\nTurnus (Ancient Greek: Τυρρηνός \"Tyrrhênós\") was a legendary king of the Rutulians in Roman history.\n\nAccording to Virgil's Aeneid, Turnus is the son of Daunus and the nymph Venilia and is brother of the nymph Juturna. \n\nWhile there is a limited amount of information in historical sources about Turnus, some key details about Turnus and the Rutuli differ significantly from the account in the Aeneid. The only source predating the Aeneid is Marcus Portius Cato's Origines. Turnus is also mentioned by Livy in his Ab Urbe Condita and by Dionysius of Halicarnassus in his Ρωμαϊκή Αρχαιολογία (Rômaïkê Archaiologia, Roman Antiquities), both of which come later than the Aeneid. \n\nIn all of these historical sources, Turnus' heritage is unclear. Dionysius calls him \"Tyrrhenus,\" which means Etruscan, while other sources suggest a Greek ancestry. In all of these sources, Turnus and his Rutulians are settled in Italy prior to the arrival of the Trojans and are involved in the clash between the Latins and the Trojans, but there is a great deal of discrepancy in details. It appears that Virgil drew on a variety of historical sources for the background of Turnus in the Aeneid.\n\nPrior to Aeneas' arrival in Italy, Turnus was the primary potential suitor of Lavinia, the only daughter of Latinus, King of the Latin people. Upon Aeneas' arrival, however, Lavinia is promised to the Trojan prince. Juno, determined to prolong the suffering of the Trojans, prompts Turnus to demand a war with the new arrivals. King Latinus is greatly displeased with Turnus, but steps down and allows the war to commence.\n\nDuring the War between the Latins and the Trojans (along with several other Trojan allies, including King Evander's Arcadians), Turnus proves himself to be brave but hot-headed. In Book IX, he nearly takes the fortress of the Trojans after defeating many opponents, but soon gets into trouble and is only saved from death by Juno.\n\nIn Book X, Turnus slays the son of Evander, the young prince Pallas. As he gloats over the killing, he takes as a spoil of war Pallas' sword belt and puts it on. Enraged, Aeneas seeks out the Rutulian King with full intent of killing him. Virgil marks the death of Pallas by mentioning the inevitable downfall of Turnus. To prevent his death at the hands of Aeneas, Juno conjures a ghost apparition of Aeneas, luring Turnus onto a ship and to his safety. Turnus takes great offense at this action, questioning his worth and even contemplating suicide.\n\nIn Book XII, Aeneas and Turnus duel to the death; Aeneas gains the upper hand amidst a noticeably Iliad-esque chase sequence (Turnus and Aeneas run around the lines of men several times, similar to the duel of Achilles and Hector), wounding Turnus in the thigh. Turnus begs Aeneas either to spare him or give his body back to his people. Aeneas considers but upon seeing the belt of Pallas on Turnus, he is consumed by rage and finishes him off. The last line of the poem describes Turnus' unhappy passage into the Underworld.\n\nTurnus' supporters include: his sister and minor river/ fountain deity, Juturna; Latinus's wife, Amata; the deposed king of the Etruscans, Mezentius; and Queen Camilla of the Volsci, who helped him fight Aeneas.\n\nIn the Middle English poem \"Sir Gawain and the Green Knight\", the unknown poet cites as a parallel to Brutus of Troy's founding of Britain, that of an unidentified \"Ticius\" to Tuscany. Although some scholars have tried to argue that \"Titius\" is derived from Titus Tatius, Otis Chapman has proposed that \"Ticius\" is a scribal error for what the poet intended to read as Turnus. On top of manuscript stylometric evidence, Chapman notes that in a passage in Ranulf Higdon's \"Polychronicon\", Turnus is also named as King of Tuscany. This suggests that legends in the age after Virgil came to identify Turnus \"as a legendary figure like Aeneas, Romulus, \"Langeberde\", and Brutus\".\nIn Book IX of John Milton's \"Paradise Lost\", the story of Turnus and Lavinia is mentioned in relation to God's anger at Adam and Eve.\n\nTurnus can be seen as a \"new Achilles,\" due to his Greek ancestry and his fierceness. According to Barry Powell, he may also represent Mark Antony or local peoples who must submit to Rome's empire. Powell adds that in the dispute between Turnus and Aeneas, Turnus may have the moral upper hand, having been arranged to marry Lavinia first. However, Turnus must be stopped since he is running counter to the force of destiny.\n\n"}
{"id": "1290363", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1290363", "title": "Universal reconciliation", "text": "Universal reconciliation\n\nIn Christian theology, universal reconciliation (also called universal salvation, Christian universalism, or in context simply universalism) is the doctrine that all sinful and alienated human souls—because of divine love and mercy—will ultimately be reconciled to God. The doctrine has generally been rejected by Christian religion, which holds to the doctrine of special salvation that only some members of humanity will eventually enter heaven, but it has received support from many prestigious Christian thinkers as well as many groups of Christians. The Bible itself has a variety of verses that, on the surface, seem to support a plurality of views.\n\nUniversal salvation may be related to the perception of a problem of Hell, standing opposed to ideas such as endless conscious torment in Hell, but may also include a period of finite punishment similar to a state of purgatory. Believers in universal reconciliation may support the view that while there may be a real \"Hell\" of some kind, it is neither a place of endless suffering nor a place where the spirits of human beings are ultimately 'annihilated' after enduring the just amount of divine retribution.\n\nThe concept of reconciliation is related to the concept of salvation—i.e., salvation from spiritual and eventually physical death—such that the term \"universal salvation\" is functionally equivalent. Universalists espouse various theological beliefs concerning the process or state of salvation, but all adhere to the view that salvation history concludes with the reconciliation of the entire human race to God. Many adherents assert that the suffering and crucifixion of Jesus Christ constitute the mechanism that provides redemption for all humanity and atonement for all sins.\n\nUnitarian Universalism is a religious movement which emerged in part from the Universalist Church, but it no longer holds any official doctrinal positions, being a non-creedal faith. Universal reconciliation, however, remains a popular viewpoint among many congregations and individual believers including many that have not at all associated with said church.\n\nAn alternative to universal reconciliation is the doctrine of annihilationism, often in combination with Christian conditionalism. Some Christian leaders, such as influential theologian Martin Luther, have hypothesized other concepts such as 'soul death'.\n\nAs one bishop and professor of philosophy has put it, \"In the final analysis, the question of salvation is always an inquiry into the balancing of human free will with God's mercy and forgiveness.\" The Bible itself has, as referred to before, a variety of verses on the subject that appear to be contradictory if not given additional reader interpretation. Influential theologians Emil Brunner and J.A.T. Robinson argue that these verses can be put into two distinct categories: damnation for some or eventual reconciliation for all. The mixed message about the afterlife described in the Bible has been commented on by scholars as early as 1917; then, Harvey W. Scott wrote, \"That there is no definite affirmation, in the Old Testament of the doctrine of a future life, or personal immortality, is the general consensus of Biblical scholarship.\" Some sections of the Old Testament appear to argue that no afterlife exists even for the good and just, with the Book of Ecclesiastes telling the faithful: \"The dead know nothing. They have no reward and even the memory of them are lost\" (although this is not the normative Jewish view).\n\nThe traditional view held by Christian organized religion comes from a variety of Biblical citations. It is stated in John 3:36 (NIV), \"Whoever believes in the Son has eternal life, but whoever rejects the Son will not see life, for God’s wrath remains on them.\" Also, 2 Thessalonians 1:8-9 (NIV) declares, \"Those who do not know God and do not obey the gospel of our Lord Jesus, they will be punished with everlasting destruction and shut out from the presence of the Lord and from the glory of his might.\"\n\nThe Gospel of Luke statement by Jesus about salvation being a \"narrow\" doorway is often quoted, with Luke 13:23-25 reading:\nBooks of the Bible argued to possibly support the idea of full reconciliation include the First Epistle to the Corinthians. The sections of 1 Corinthians 15:22, \"As all die in Adam, so all will be made alive in Christ\", and 1 Corinthians 15:28, \"God will be all in all\", are cited. Verses that seem to contradict the tradition of complete damnation and come up in arguments also include Lamentations 3:31-33 (NIV), \"For no one is cast off by the Lord forever. Though he brings grief, he will show compassion, so great is his unfailing love\", and 1 Timothy 4:10 (NIV), \"We have put our hope in the living God, who is the Savior of all people, and especially of those who believe.\"\n\nAs well, the Epistle to the Colossians receives attention, with Colossians 1:17-20 reading:\nBroadly speaking, most historical advocates of Christian universalism throughout the years (and many now still) did so from the perspective of accepting the traditional Biblical canon as divinely inspired and without transcription error but rejecting strict Biblical literalism, practicing detailed exegesis of the texts. The advocates have argued that the apparent contradiction between Bible verses that describe God eventually reconciling humanity to goodness (such as in the Epistle to the Ephesians) with those that describe damnation to most of humanity (such as in the Book of Revelation) is that threats of long-term punishment function just as threats, not necessarily as predictions of future events, that will not be actually carried out. Advocates have also argued that suffering of sinners in hell or hell-like states will be long but still limited, not eternal.\n\nHowever, liberal and progressive Christians have often argued that the teachings of the historical Jesus did not mention exclusive salvation for a select few and have altogether rejected many sections of the Bible written by figures decades after the life of Jesus as man-made inventions that are to be taken with a grain of salt.\n\nWhile not being a universalist per se, influential Christian philosopher Karl Barth, often regarded as the greatest Protestant theologian of the twentieth century, spoke for a great deal of broadly traditional Christians when he wrote that salvation is centrally Christological. He asserted that in Jesus Christ the reconciliation of all of mankind to God has essentially already taken place and that through Christ man is already elect and justified; thus, eternal salvation for everyone, even those that reject God, is a possibility that isn't just an open question but should be hoped for by Christians as a matter of grace.\n\nThe most recent academic survey of the history of universal salvation is by Biblical scholar Richard Bauckham. He outlines the history thus:\n\nIn the first 600 years of Christian history, researchers have identified six main theological schools concerning apokatastasis. Four of them were Universalists, one taught \"conditional immortality\" and the last taught Eternal hell. \nMany early church fathers have been quoted as either embracing or hoping for the ultimate reconciliation of God with His creation. Those that did not embrace the teaching, such as Augustine, acknowledged that it was a common enough belief among Christians of the day. The concept of a final restoration of all souls particularly had large appeal in the East during the fourth and fifth centuries.\n\nOrigen and a form of apocatastasis were condemned in 544 by the Patriarch Mennas of Constantinople and the condemnation was allegedly ratified in 553 by the Fifth Ecumenical Council. Apocatastasis was interpreted by 19th-century Universalists such as Hosea Ballou (1842) to be the same as the beliefs of the Universalist Church of America. However, until the middle of the sixth century, the word had a broader meaning. While it applied to a number of doctrines regarding salvation, it also referred to a return, both to a location and to an original condition. Thus, the Greek word's application was originally broad and metaphorical. Many heteroclite views became associated with Origen, and the 15 anathemas against him attributed to the council condemn a form of apocatastasis, along with the pre-existence of the soul, animism, a heterodox Christology, and a denial of real and lasting resurrection of the body. Some authorities believe these anathemas belong to an earlier local synod.\n\nThe New Advent Catholic Encyclopedia claims that the Fifth Ecumenical Council was contested as being an official and authorized Ecumenical Council, since it was established \"not\" by the Pope, but rather by the Emperor, because of the Pope's resistance to it. The Fifth Ecumenical Council addressed what was called \"The Three Chapters\" and was against a form of Origenism which had nothing to do with Origen and Origenist views. Popes Vigilius, Pelagius I (556–61), Pelagius II (579–90), and Gregory the Great (590–604) were only aware that the Fifth Council specifically dealt with the Three Chapters and they made no mention of Origenism or Universalism, nor spoke as if they knew of its condemnation, even though Gregory the Great was opposed to the belief of universalism. Scholar Richard Bauckham has stated that while universalism appeared \"discredited\" due to scholarly resistance to Origen's view, it \"seems in doubt\" if the Fifth Ecumenical Council specifically endorsed any negative view of it.\n\nFredrick W. Norris maintains Origen may not have strongly believed in universal reconciliation at all. In an article on Apocatastasis in \"The Westminster handbook to Origen\" (2004) he writes that \"As far as we can tell, therefore, Origen never decided to stress exclusive salvation or universal salvation, to the strict exclusion of either case.\"\n\nThe most important school of Universalist thought was the Didascalium in Alexandria, Egypt, which was founded by Saint Pantaenus ca. 190 C.E. Alexandria was the center of learning and intellectual discourse in the ancient Mediterranean world, and was the theological center of gravity of Christianity prior to the rise of the Roman Church.\n\nThe Universalists Hosea Ballou (1829), Thomas Whittemore (1830), John Wesley Hanson (1899) and George T. Knight (1911) claimed that Clement of Alexandria expressed universalist positions in early Christianity. These claims have been controversial since they were first made. Some scholars believe that Clement used the term \"apocatastasis\" to refer only to the \"restoration\" of a select few.\n\nGregory of Nyssa was declared \"the father of fathers\" by the seventh ecumenical council and some traditional and modern Greek orthodox scholars dispute Pierre Batiffol and George T. Knight's claim that Saint Gregory of Nyssa and Saint Macrina the Younger, who were brother and sister, believed or taught universal salvation. He even went so far as to maintain that Satan would be saved: \"the originator of evil himself will be healed.”\n\nHowever, Gregory of Nyssa, in his book \"Sermo Catecheticus Magnus\", described: \"The annihilation of evil, the restitution of all things, and the final restoration of evil men and evil spirits to the blessedness of union with God, so that He may be 'all in all,' embracing all things endowed with sense and reason.\"\n\nHe further stated, \"when death approaches to life, and darkness to light, and the corruptible to the incorruptible, the inferior is done away with and reduced to non-existence, and the thing purged is benefited, just as the dross is purged from gold by fire. In the same way in the long circuits of time, when the evil of nature which is now mingled and implanted in them has been taken away, whensoever the restoration to their old condition of the things that now lie in wickedness takes place, there will be a unanimous thanksgiving from the whole creation, both of those who have been punished in the purification and of those who have not at all needed purification.\"\n\nOne of the undisputed teachers of universal reconciliation is St. Isaac the Syrian, monastic theologian and bishop of Nineveh.\nThe Universalist John Wesley Hanson stated that even after eternal hell became the normative position of the Church, there were still some Christian thinkers during the Middle Ages who embraced Universalist ideas. In his Schaff article George T. Knight stated that \"maybe\" Johannes Scotus Eriugena, Johannes Tauler, Blessed John of Ruysbroeck and Blessed Julian of Norwich had Universalist leanings.\n\nIf ideas about the salvation of all souls after purgatory existed in early Christianity, they did not resurface in the Reformation, although figures such as Erasmus rekindled interests in the Greek Church Fathers, and early advocates of universal salvation, such as Origen, became more broadly known as new editions of their writings were published. Michael Servetus' writings also fall into a form of universalism in this period.\n\nThe period between the Reformation and Enlightenment featured extended debates about salvation and hell. The main controversy during this period was between the majority, who believed in the immortal soul and eternal punishment in hell (such as Calvin), and a minority, (including Luther) who believed in soul sleep. Joachim Vadian and Johann Kessler accused the German Anabaptist Hans Denck of universal salvation, but he denied it, and recent research suggests that this is not so. Hans Hut was deeply influenced by Denck, but there is no evidence that he spread the doctrine of universalism.\n\nThe 17th century saw a resurgence of Christian universalism:\n\nProminent universalists of this time also include the Cambridge Platonists in seventeenth-century England such as Peter Sterry.\n\nThe rise of ideological Calvinism, which taught that God neither sought out nor wanted salvation for all mankind and strictly held that divine omnipotence meant that God created those that he foresaw damnation for without mercy, fueled an intellectual counter-reaction in which universalist-like doctrines that God intended all of humanity to be saved and will extend grace to most of humanity gained appeal. Arminianism and Quaker doctrine received much attention, although Christian universalism was still a fringe phenomenon in terms of scholarly thinking of the time.\n\nGeorge Whitfield in a letter to John Wesley says that Peter Boehler, a bishop in the Moravian Church, had privately confessed in a letter that \"all the damned souls would hereafter be brought out of hell\". William Law in \"An Humble, Earnest, and Affectionate Address to the Clergy\" (1761), an Anglican, and James Relly, a Welsh Methodist, were other significant 18th-century Protestant leaders who believed in Universalism.\n\nIn 1843, the Universalist Rev J. M. Day published an article \"Was John Wesley a Restorationist?\" in the \"Universalist Union\" magazine suggesting that John Wesley (d. 1791) had made a private conversion to Universalism in his last years but kept it secret. Biographers of Wesley reject this claim.\n\nUniversalism was brought to the American colonies in the early eighteenth century by the English-born physician George de Benneville, attracted by Pennsylvania's Quaker tolerance. North American universalism was active and organized. This was seen as a threat by the orthodox, Calvinist Congregationalists of New England such as Jonathan Edwards, who wrote prolifically against universalist teachings and preachers. John Murray (1741–1815) and Elhanan Winchester (1751–1797) are usually credited as founders of the modern Universalist movement and founding teachers of universal salvation. Early American Universalists such as Elhanan Winchester continued to preach the punishment of souls prior to eventual salvation.\n\nThe 19th century was the heyday of Christian Universalism and the Universalist Church of America.\n\nDuring this time, famous German philosopher Friedrich Schleiermacher became one of the most well known religious thinkers to teach universalism. Though he somewhat shared John Calvin's view of predestination, he interpreted the concept of an all-determining will of God to mean that, through God's might, power, and foresight, humanity as a whole is fundamentally united in God's view and that every single person will eventually be drawn into His irresistible influence.\n\nOther examples include English theologian Henry Bristow Wilson, who took somewhat of a universalist viewpoint in his part of the famous 1680 work \"Essays and Reviews\" and became condemned in the Court of Arches (an ecclesiastical court of the Church of England) only to soon receive vindication when the Lord Chancellor overturned said condemnation. Frederic Farrar's famous series of sermons in Westminster Abbey in 1877, published in print form as \"Eternal Hope\" a year later, disputed the traditional views of damnation and punishment.\n\nWhile highly influential Protestant theologians Karl Barth and Emil Brunner both didn't strictly identify as universalists, they each wrote in detail about how they viewed complete salvation extended to every single member of mankind as being not just a distinct possibility but something that should be hoped for by all Christians.\n\nThe Universalist Church of America merged with the American Unitarian Association in 1961 to form the Unitarian Universalists.\n\nHans Urs von Balthasar wrote a small book addressing the virtuous hope for universalism, as well as its origin in Origen, entitled \"Dare We Hope \"That All Men Be Saved\"?\". He also addressed the relationship between love and universalism in \"Love Alone is Credible\".\n\nAdolph E. Knoch and William Barclay were universalists. In 1919, the Swiss F. L. Alexandre Freytag led a breakaway group of the Bible Student movement.\n\nChildren's author Madeleine L'Engle (\"A Wrinkle In Time\") was an advocate of universalism, leading several Christian retail outlets to refuse to stock her books.\n\nChristian Universalism continues as an influence within Unitarian Universalism.\n\nIn 2004, the Pentecostal bishop Carlton Pearson received notoriety when he was officially declared a heretic by the Joint College of African-American Pentecostal Bishops. Bishop Pearson, who had attended Oral Roberts University, a Charismatic Christian college, formally declared his belief in the doctrine of universal salvation. His church, called the New Dimensions Church, adopted this doctrine (that is, those who remained, since a significant majority of the church's original membership left), and in 2008, the congregation was merged into All Souls Unitarian Church in Tulsa, Oklahoma, one of the largest Unitarian Universalist congregations in the world.\n\nA book \"The Evangelical Universalist: The Biblical Hope That God's Love Will Save us All\" by \"Gregory MacDonald\" was published in 2006. \"Gregory MacDonald\" is a pen-name. It has subsequently been revealed that the author is Robin Parry. The same author is also co-editor of a 2003 compilation \"Universal Salvation? The Current Debate\" and of a 2010 book \"All Shall Be Well\" which reviews the doctrine of universal salvation from Origen to Moltmann.\n\nOn May 17, 2007, the Christian Universalist Association was founded at the historic Universalist National Memorial Church in Washington, D.C. This was a move to distinguish the modern Christian Universalist movement from Unitarian Universalism, and to promote ecumenical unity among Christian believers in universal reconciliation.\n\nIn 2008, the Russian Orthodox scholar-bishop Hilarion Alfeyev of Volokolamsk, in his presentation at the First World Apostolic Congress of Divine Mercy (held in Rome in 2008), argued that God's mercy is so great that He does not condemn sinners to everlasting punishment. The Orthodox understanding of hell, said Bishop Hilarion, corresponds roughly to the Roman Catholic notion of purgatory. American Orthodox theologian David Bentley Hart has also argued for the coherence of the universalist position.\n\nContemporary Conservative Evangelical teachers of ultimate reconciliation include Thomas Talbott, Stephen E. Jones, J. Preston Eby, Bill and Elaine Cook., and J.D. Leavitt, founder of Heavenly Faith.\n\nTwo Christian theologians of the 20th and 21st centuries writing in support of universalism that have received major notice are also J.A.T. Robinson and John Hick. Both of them argued for universalism as coming from God's nature as being of omnipotent love and stated that, as time went on after death, while some would temporarily refuse to repent, none would refuse to repent forever. Hick in particular stated that the seemingly contradictory nature of the Bible's references to damnation came about because the warnings of hell are conditional, warning men about eternal suffering if they permanently refuse to repent, while nobody would actually make that choice.\n\nChristian universalism was a minority view for most of history up to the 1800s. One recurrent objection to universalism made by many has been that having a deep-rooted belief in eternal torment as a possibility is a necessary deterrent from living an immoral life. Universalists have often responded that punishments for sin can function well without being eternal, especially in the afterlife when one can face severe treatment first before one eventually gets to heaven.\n\n"}
{"id": "12233742", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12233742", "title": "Woolpit", "text": "Woolpit\n\nWoolpit is a village in the English county of Suffolk, midway between the towns of Bury St. Edmunds and Stowmarket. In 2007 it had a population of 2,030. It is notable for the 12th-century legend of the green children of Woolpit and for its parish church, which has especially fine medieval woodwork. Administratively Woolpit is a civil parish, part of the district of Mid Suffolk.\n\nThe village's name, first recorded in the 10th century as Wlpit and later as Wlfpeta, derives from the Old English \"wulf-pytt\", meaning \"pit for trapping wolves\".\n\nBefore the Norman conquest of England, the village belonged to Ulfcytel Snillingr. Between 1174 and 1180, Walter de Coutances, a confidant of King Henry II, was appointed to Woolpit. After his \"death or retirement\" it was to be granted to the monks of Bury St Edmunds Abbey. A bull of Pope Alexander III likewise confirms that revenues from Woolpit are to be given to the abbey.\n\nIn the 15th century and for some time afterward, two fairs were held annually. The Horse Fair was held on two closes, or fields, on 16 September. The Cow Fair was held on its own field on 19 September; here toys as well as cattle were sold.\n\nSir Robert Gardiner, Lord Chief Justice of Ireland, was Lord of the Manor from 1597 to 1620. He founded an almshouse for the care of the poor women of Woolpit and nearby Elmswell. The Gardiner charity still exists. Woolpit passed at his death to his grandnephew, Gardiner Webb, who died in 1674.\n\nFrom the 17th century, the area became an important manufacturing centre for \"Suffolk White\" bricks, but today only the pits remain.\n\nWoolpit is in the hundred of Thedwestry, southeast of Bury. The area of the parish is ; the population in 1831 was 880, less than half agricultural.\n\nMill Lane marks the site of a post mill which was demolished in about 1924. Another mill, which fell down in 1963, stood in Windmill Avenue.\n\nThe village contains two pubs, The Bull and The Swan, two tea rooms, estate agents, a grocers, hairdressers, fish and chip shop, Palmers Bakery, a dentist and Woolpit Interiors within the village and two industrial estates containing more larger businesses as well as a health surgery and school.\n\nIn 1811, Woolpit had 625 inhabitants in 108 houses. By 1821 the population had increased to 801 inhabitants in 116 houses.\n\nThe medieval writers Ralph of Coggeshall and William of Newburgh report that two children appeared mysteriously in Woolpit some time during the 12th century. The brother and sister were of generally normal appearance except for the green colour of their skin. They wore strange-looking clothes, spoke in an unknown language, and the only food they would eat was raw beans. Eventually they learned to eat other food and lost their green pallor, but the boy was sickly and died soon after the children were baptised. The girl adjusted to her new life, but she was considered to be \"rather loose and wanton in her conduct\". After learning to speak English she explained that she and her brother had come from , an underground world whose inhabitants are green.\n\nSome researchers believe that the story of the green children is a typical folk tale, describing an imaginary encounter with the inhabitants of another world, perhaps one beneath our feet or even extraterrestrial. Others consider it to be a garbled account of an historical event, perhaps connected with the persecution of Flemish immigrants living in the area at that time.\n\nLocal author and folk singer Bob Roberts stated in his 1978 book \"A Slice of Suffolk\" that, \"I was told there are still people in Woolpit who are 'descended from the green children', but nobody would tell me who they were!\"\n\nThe church has \"Suffolk's most perfectly restored angel hammerbeam roof\", a profusion of medieval carved pew-ends (mixed with good 19th-century recreations), and a large and very fine porch of 1430–55. The roof is actually a double hammerbeam example, with the upper beam being false. The tower and spire are by Richard Phipson in the 1850s, replacing the originals lost to lightning in 1852 or 1853. Most of the rest of the church is Perpendicular, except for the 14th-century south aisle and chancel. There is fine flushwork decoration on the exterior of the clerestory. The medieval shrine was at the east end of the south aisle. The \"quite perfect\" eagle lectern is a rare early-Tudor original from before the English Reformation.\n\nUntil the Reformation the church housed a richly adorned statue of the Virgin Mary known as \"Our Lady of Woolpit\", which was an object of veneration and pilgrimage, perhaps as early as about 1211. There is a clear indication of the existence of an image of the Virgin in a mid-15th century will that speaks of \"tabernaculum beate Mariae de novo faciendo\" (\"in making new/anew the tabernacle of Blessed Mary\"), which sounds at least like a canopy or even a chapel for housing an image. It stood in its own chapel within the church. No trace of the chapel survives, but it may have been situated at the east end of the south aisle, or more probably on the north side of the chancel in the area now occupied by the 19th-century vestry.\n\nPilgrimage to Our Lady of Woolpit seems to have been particularly popular in the 15th and early 16th centuries, and the shrine was visited twice by King Henry VI, in 1448 and 1449.\n\nIn 1481 John, Lord Howard (from 1483 created Duke of Norfolk by Richard III), left a massive £7 9s as an offering for the shrine.\n\nAfter the Tudor dynasty had consolidated its hold on the English throne, Henry VII's queen, Elizabeth of York, made a donation in 1502 of 20d to the shrine.\n\nThe statue was removed or destroyed after 1538, when Henry VIII ordered the taking down of \"feigned images abused with Pilgrimages and Offerings\" throughout England; the chapel was demolished in 1551, on a warrant from the Court of Augmentations.\n\nIn a field about 300 yards north-east of the church there is a small irregular moated enclosure of unknown date, largely covered by trees and bushes and now a nature reserve. The moat is partially filled by water rising from a natural spring, protected by modern brickwork, on the south side; the moated site and the spring constitute a scheduled ancient monument.\n\nThe spring is known as the Lady's Well or Lady Well. Although there are earlier references to a well or spring, it is first named as \"Our Ladys Well\" in a document dated between 1573 and 1576, referring to a manorial court meeting in 1557–58. The name suggests that it was once a holy well dedicated like the church and statue to the Virgin Mary, and it has been suggested that the well itself was a place of medieval pilgrimage. There is no evidence to suggest that there was ever a building at the site of the well, or even to support the claim of its being a specific goal of pilgrimage. In fact the well was on land held not by the parish church but by the chapel of St John at Palgrave.\n\nAt some unknown point, a local tradition arose that the waters of the spring had healing properties. A writer in 1827 described the Lady's Well as\na perpetual spring about two feet deep of beautifully clear water, and so cold that a hand immersed in it is very soon benumbed. It is used occasionally for the immersion of weakly children, and much resorted to by persons of weak eyes.\nAnalysis of the water in the 1970s showed that it has a high sulphate content, which may have been of some benefit in the treatment of eye infections.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1588400", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1588400", "title": "Zoroastrian music", "text": "Zoroastrian music\n\nZoroastrian music is a genre of religious music that accompanies religious and traditional rites among the Zoroastrian people.\n\nAlthough certain ancient Zoroastrian traditions show a negative approach towards Zoroastrian melodies such as the pre-Islamic pastorals and minstrels, Zoroastrian music has been in the religion since it was founded.\n\nHistorical texts prove that prior to the arrival of Islam in Persia, Zoroastrians knew choral and solo performance songs. The majority of these songs are no longer performed, although Zoroastrian religious songs still do remain. The wording of these songs are attained from either the Avesta or from the Gathas (sayings attributed to Zoroaster). Islamic influence can be seen in the melodies of the Naderi method of prayer recitation and pilgrim's songs. The ancient tambourine music of Kermanshah (in Iran) is similar to some kinds of Zoroastrian music.\n\nDue to the death of the mobeds, many Zoroastrian customs have been forgotten and only a few remain.\n"}
