{"id": "23215553", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23215553", "title": "2009 Iranian presidential election protests", "text": "2009 Iranian presidential election protests\n\nProtests against the 2009 Iranian presidential election results () (a disputed victory by Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad), in support of opposition candidates Mir-Hossein Mousavi and Mehdi Karroubi, occurred in major cities nationwide from 2009 into early 2010. The protests were titled Iranian Green Movement ( \"Jonbesh-e Sabz\") by its proponents, reflecting Mousavi's campaign theme, and Persian Awakening, Persian Spring or Green Revolution, reflecting the \"Persian identity\" of Iranians and the so-called \"colour revolution\" theme.\n\nProtests began the night of 12 June 2009, following the announcement that incumbent President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad won nearly 63% of the vote, despite several reported irregularities. However, all three opposition candidates claimed the votes were manipulated and the election was rigged, with Rezaee and Mousavi lodging official complaints. Mousavi announced he \"won't surrender to this manipulation\", before lodging an official appeal against the result to the Guardian Council on 14 June. Ayatollah Ali Khamenei ordered an investigation into the claims of electoral fraud and irregularities, as requested by Green Movement leaders. Ahmadinejad called the election \"completely free\" and the outcome a \"great victory\" for Iran, dismissing the protests as akin to little more than \"passions after a soccer match\".\n\nDespite the entirely non-violent nature of the protests, the government deemed them unacceptable and had the police and paramilitary Basij violently suppress them; protesters were beaten, pepper sprayed, arrested and tortured, and even shot in some cases. The most widely known firearm victim was Neda Agha-Soltan, whose last moments were uploaded to YouTube and broadcast around the world. Opposition groups also reported thousands more were arrested and tortured in prisons around the country, with former inmates alleging mass rape of men, women and children by the Islamic Revolutionary Guards, in prisons such as Kahrizak and Evin. The Iranian government confirmed the deaths of 36 people during the protests, while unconfirmed reports by Mousavi supporters allege at least 72 deaths (over twice as many) in the three months following the election. They claimed relatives of the deceased were forced to sign documents citing death by heart attack or meningitis. Iranian authorities closed universities in Tehran, blocked websites, cutoff mobile signals and banned rallies.\n\nThe creation of the Iranian Green Movement developed during these protests. It was also termed the \"Twitter Revolution\", due to protesters' reliance on Twitter and other social media to communicate.\n\nSince 1980 following the collapse of the Shah's regime in 1979. The government is based on the concept of Velayat-e Faqih, which is a system of governance in which a \"faqih\" was to serve as the Supreme Leader. However, following calls that this idea was undemocratic, the system was moderately altered into the current \"Islamic Republic\", in which a council of clerics, who are elected by the people, choose the Supreme Leader who, per the constitution, has to be a cleric (though this was altered in 1988). The Supreme Leader, in turn appoints the members of the twelve member Guardian Council, who approve laws and candidates for elections, even at the presidential level. The President of Iran is not the commander-in-chief, and the control of the military, police, and the parallel Revolutionary Guards is under the control of the Supreme Leader. The Revolutionary Guards is a constitutionally protected paramilitary force that operates alongside the regular Armed forces, whose primary function is to protect the Islamic Republic. The Revolutionary Guards also have an auxiliary wing called the Basij, who provide support in enforcing religious laws and suppressing dissidents. They are not considered full members of the Revolutionary Guards, and lack the training given to full-time members, although they can be called up at any time to assist the regular forces in times of trouble. Though Ayatollah Khomeini and his successor Ayatollah Khamenei, claimed that this system was democratic and the Revolutionary guards are necessitated to protect the government from military coups and foreign interference, critics contend that this system only serves to keep like-minded conservatives in power and marginalize any opposition, while using the Revolutionary guards to silence any dissidents.\n\nThe Islamic Republic has not escaped popular opposition in the past. During the 1980s, the Marxist-Islamist, Mojahedin Khalq was instrumental in opposing Ayatollah Khomeini through large protests and bombings against politicians such as Mohammad-Ali Rajai, Shahid Beheshti, and Khamenei himself, who escaped an assassination attempt that left his right arm paralyzed. Following the 1981 Hafte Tir bombing, Ayatollah Khomeini declared the Mojahedin and anyone opposed to the Islamic republic, \"enemies of god\" and pursued a mass campaign of torture, rape, and execution against members of the Mojahedin, Fadaiyan, and Tudeh parties as well as their families, close friends, and even anyone who was accused of insufficient Islamic behavior, resulting in the deaths of thousands of Iranians who were usually tried in secret kangaroo courts run by hard line clerics. Following the failed Operation Mersad in 1988, Khomeini ordered all prisons to execute those still in captivity, resulting in an estimated 30,000 dead. Since then, no organized opposition has surfaced in Iran and following this experience, the Iranian Government usually employs heavy handed tactics to marginalize any attempt at regime removal and usually justifies this with the \"enemy of god\" classification.\n\nIn 1997, following the unexpected victory of a little-known reformist cleric Mohammad Khatami, there was a revival of a moderate faction within the government whom the public believed had the ability to reform and curb the power of the conservatives and make the system somewhat democratic, and that Khamenei was willing to trust this faction in the hopes that it could recover the country after the eight-year war with Iraq, which Rafsanjani and the conservatives had failed to do. However, rather than promoting a reform of the system, the reformists began questioning the concept of the Islamic republic itself and following the exposure of the murders of dissidents by the intelligence services in reformist newspapers (which were run by former Revolutionary Guards and intelligence agents now turned reformists), the government began to distrust Khatami and his faction, a conflict which reached the breaking point after the 1999 student protests, after which hardliners such as Mohammad Ali Jafari, Mohammad Bagher Ghalibaf, and Qasem Soleimani were promoted to take control of the Revolutionary Guards and the Security Services to crack down on most reformist movements. Despite reformists gaining a majority in the Majlis in 2000 and Khatami winning the 2001 election as well, Khamenei would oppose any attempts at liberalization of the government or society. Most Iranians and observers in general have regarded the reform movement to have been a failure with Saeed Hajjarian, the main theorist behind the movement, declaring in 2003 that \"the reform movement is dead. Long live the reform movement\".\n\nIn 2005, Tehran Mayor Mahmoud Ahmadinejad was elected to the presidency, defeating now reformist Ali-Akbar Rafsanjani, placing the conservatives in charge of the government once more. Ahmadinejad would focus his presidency on confronting Israel. His speeches gained international infamy, which usually called for the destruction of Israel and claimed that the Holocaust was fabricated. The funding of anti-Israeli groups went up exponentially, particularly towards Hamas and Hezbollah, which have been labeled as Terrorist groups by the United States. Despite Iran's huge oil and gas reserves, those sectors have been relatively neglected in favor of a nuclear energy program that has cost billions of dollars and has been condemned by Israel and the United States, who claim that the program is a cover up for a much larger nuclear weapons program. As a result, the United Nations has placed sanctions on the Iranian government, which has had a heavy impact on the economy, reducing the value of the rial from a low of 8,000 to the dollar in 2005 to 10,000 to the dollar in 2009.\n\nIran has been experiencing high birth rates since 1988, both due to an increase in standard of living and government encouragement of large families, with an estimated 60 percent of the country being under the age of 30. However, the economy has failed to keep pace with the number of people entering the job market and Iran has been experiencing high unemployment rates since early 2000. Ahmadinejad began a campaign of privatization of state enterprises, but most companies ended up in the hands of government-connected officials and foundations (\"bonyads\") operated by wealthy clerics and the Revolutionary Guards. Estimates by the \"Los Angeles Times\" suggest IRGC has ties to over one hundred companies and annual revenue in excess of $12 billion, particularly in construction. The Ministry of Petroleum awarded IRGC billions of dollars in contracts as well as major infrastructure projects. Most government-issued contracts were awarded to these companies, and private enterprise in Iran has been struggling heavily against these groups.\n\nThe election of the president of Iran in 2009 was preceded by many Iranian surveys and a survey by the US-based Terror Free Tomorrow organization. The Terror Free Tomorrow opinion poll, conducted from 11 to 20 May 2009, predicted the high participation and showed similar ratios for the candidates to the later official result, with over a quarter yet undecided. The many Iranian surveys show a wide range of differing results. An opinion in the \"New York Times\" claims that this is due to the high fluctuation among voters during the campaign season.\n\nThe election for presidency took place on 12 June 2009. Unlike the election in 2005, the 2009 election featured high participation. The results of the elections were announced only 2 hours after the end of the votes, which may seem impossible. The official results were rejected by all three opposition candidates, who claimed that the votes were manipulated and the election was rigged. The last presidential election had already been controversial, but this time it escalated. Candidates Mohsen Rezaee and Mousavi have lodged official complaints. Mousavi announced that he \"won't surrender to this manipulation\" before lodging an official appeal against the result to the Guardian Council on 14 June.\n\nAccording to an analysis by Professor Walter R. Mebane, Jr. from the Department of Statistics of the University of Michigan, considering data from the first stage of the 2005 presidential election produces results that \"give moderately strong support for a diagnosis that the 2009 election was affected by significant fraud\". The UK-based think-tank Chatham House also suspected fraud in the voting process for a number of reasons:\n\nOn Saturday 13 June after election results announced that Ahmadinejad had won, supporters of Mousavi took to the streets to protest. The next day, protests grew, as did violence. On the night of 14 June the pro-Ahmadinejad Basij paramilitary group raided Tehran University, injuring many. On 15 June millions of protesters marched on Azadi street and Mousavi made his first post-election appearance.\n\nOn 16 June, protests continued, and the Guardian Council announced a partial recount would be conducted; however, the vote was not annulled. On Wednesday 17 June another large protest occurred; some members of the Iranian national football team wore green wristbands in support of Mousavi during their game against South Korea. On Thursday, 18 June more than 100,000 protesters held a candlelight vigil in Tehran following Mousavi's call for a day of mourning for those killed in protests. The Guardian Council invited the three major challengers to meet to discuss their grievances.\n\nOn Friday, 19 June, Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khameini spoke during religious services, saying the election was legitimate and called the large voter turnout and resulting victory (for Ahmadinejad) a \"divine assessment\" and that protests would no longer be tolerated. However, the opposition did not accept this and the protests occurred, albeit on a smaller scale. The next day, 20 June, fewer protesters took to streets. At the protests that did occur, said to number in the tens of thousands of people, much violence occurred, causing many would-be protesters to stay in their homes the next day, Sunday, 21 June. On 20 June, a young Iranian woman, identified as Neda Agha-Soltan, was shot and died in front of cameras on Kargar Avenue in Tehran. Highly graphic amateur videos of the killing rapidly spread viral across the Internet after being posted to Facebook and YouTube. On 22 June, riot police broke up the main rally in Tehran with tear gas and live fire into the air.\n\nDuring Friday, 26 June, prayers were broadcast live on television, and Ayatollah Ahmad Khatami is reported to have said that \"Anybody who fights against the Islamic system or the leader of Islamic society, fight him until complete destruction\" and called for the execution of leading demonstrators as they are \"people who wage war against God\".\n\nOn Monday, 29 June, the Guardian Council certified the results of the controversial election. This set off a wave of protests, disregarding the Iranian government's ban on street marches. The Iranian intelligence chief alleged that western and \"Zionist\" forces were responsible for inciting the protests. Four of the nine British officials arrested on 28 June 2009 remain in custody under those charges.\n\nLate July, protest had reportedly entered a \"Phase II\", using tactics such as the boycott of goods advertised on state-controlled television; attempting to deny power to state-run TV evening news broadcasts by turning on all electric appliances just before the news; \"blitz\" street demonstrations \"lasting just long enough to chant `Death to the dictator!` several times\", but not long enough for security forces to arrive; identifying paramilitary Basij vigilantes linked to the crackdown and putting marks in the opposition color green, or pictures of protest victims in front of their homes; scribbled anti-regime slogans on money. The new protest is reportedly based on the idea of Mohandas Gandhi that \"even the most powerful cannot rule without the cooperation of the ruled.\"\n\nOn 5 August, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad was sworn in for his second term as President of Iran in an official inauguration in Tehran. Protests were held outside the Parliament during the inauguration, with protesters chanting \"death to the dictator\".\n\nMajor protests would continue after the inauguration as well. Among the largest were protests that were held on Iranian holidays, such as Quds Day on 18 September, 13th of Aban on 4 November and Iranian Students Day on 7 December.\n\nAnother wave of protests occurred following these election protests across Iran in 2011.\n\nOn the weekend of 13/14 June, in a series of raids across Tehran, the government arrested over 170 people, according to police officials. Among them were prominent reformist politicians, including MIRO founder Behzad Nabavi, IIPF leader Mohsen Mirdamadi, and former president Mohammad Khatami's brother Mohammad-Reza Khatami, who was later released. Also arrested were Mostafa Tajzadeh and Mohsen Aminzadeh, whom the IRNA said were involved in orchestrating protests on 13 June. Unidentified sources said that the police stormed the headquarters of the IIPF and arrested a number of people. Iranian journalist Mashallah Shamsolvaezin claimed that presidential candidate Mir-Hossein Mousavi was put under house arrest, although officials denied this. An estimated 200 people were detained after clashes with students at the University of Tehran, although many were later released.\nActing Police Chief Ahmad-Reza Radan stated via the state press service on 14 June that \"in the interrogation of related rebels, we intend to find the link between the plotters and foreign media\". A judiciary spokesman said they had not been arrested, but that they were summoned, \"warned not to increase tension\", and later released. Intelligence minister Gholam Hossein Mohseni-Ejehei linked some arrests to terrorism supported from outside Iran, stating that \"more than 20 explosive consignments were discovered\". Others, he said, were \"counter-revolutionary groups [who had] penetrated election headquarters\" of the election candidates.\n\nRelatives of several detained protesters have confirmed that the interrogation of prisoners is now being headed by Saeed Mortazavi, a figure already known for alleged involvement in brutal interrogations and torture.\n\nMojtaba Khamenei, the second son of Ayatollah Khamenei, has emerged as one of the driving forces behind the government's crackdown, diplomats and observers said. He is reported to have a strong influence over his father and is talked about as his possible successor. Mojtaba is affiliated with current Iranian president Mahmoud Ahmadinejad.\n\nOn 16 June, Reuters reported that former vice-president Mohammad-Ali Abtahi and former presidential advisor Saeed Hajjarian had been arrested. Human rights lawyer Abdolfattah Soltani, who had been demanding a recount of all votes, was also arrested on that Tuesday according to Shirin Ebadi, who said that security officials had posed as clients. Over 100 students were arrested after security forces fired tear gas at protesters at Shiraz University on the same day. Reporters Without Borders reported that 5 of 11 arrested journalists were still in detention as of 16 June, and that a further 10 journalists were unaccounted for and may have been arrested.\n\nOn 17 June, former foreign minister and Secretary-General of the Freedom Movement of Iran, Ebrahim Yazdi, was arrested while undergoing tests at the Tehran hospital. In Tabriz, other Freedom Movement activists and eight members of the IIPF were arrested, with reports of at least 100 civic figures' arrests. The total number of arrests across Iran since the election was reported as 500.\n\nAaron Rhodes, a spokesman for the international campaign for human rights in Iran, stated that \"Iranian intelligence and security forces are using the public protests to engage in what appears to be a major purge of reform-oriented individuals whose situations in detention could be life-threatening\".\n\nIn Esfahan Province, prosecutor-general Mohammadreza Habibi warned that dissidents could face the death penalty under Islamic law. He also accused the protesters of being a \"few elements controlled by foreigners [who were] disrupting security by inciting individuals to destroy and to commit arson\" and urged them to stop their \"criminal activities\". It was not clear if his warning applied only to Isfahan or to the country as a whole.\n\nOn 20 June, Committee to Protect Journalists reported that \"LIFE Magazine\" photographer Amir Sadeghi was arrested by Iranian authorities. According to a CPJ report, he was released from Evin Prison on 28 June.\n\nOn 21 June, Iranian officials detained Iranian-born, Canadian citizen, and \"Newsweek\" journalist Maziar Bahari. He was later forced to confess in a series of trials for the detained protesters.\n\nOn 22 June, \"The Guardian\"s live blog reported that at approximately 1:30 pm, General Ali Fazli, the newly appointed commander of the Revolutionary Guards in Tehran province, had been arrested for refusing to carry Khamenei's order to use force against demonstrators.\n\nOn 11 August 2009, the Iranian government confirmed that 4,000 were detained in the protests\n\nBasij members were filmed firing into crowds and breaking into houses. A number of hospital staff protested after people were transported to the hospitals dead or in critical condition with gunshot wounds. The IRGC and the Basij also attacked Universities and students' dorms at night and destroyed property.\n\nThe \"Los Angeles Times\" reported that militiamen from the hard-line Iran-based Ansar-e Hezbollah group \"warned that they would be patrolling the streets to maintain law and order\".\n\nWhile the death of Neda attracted widespread media attention, \"The Guardian\" is also maintaining a list of numerous other people who have ostensibly been either killed or arrested since the election. The government has issued very little official information on who has been killed or arrested (except Neda Agha-Soltan, whose video circulated quickly on the Internet). Hospitals were prohibited from registering the dead bodies or injured people, as a medical student at Rasoul-Akram hospital witnessed on the night of 15 June: \"Nine people died at our hospital and another 28 had gunshot wounds... [the government] removed the dead bodies on back of trucks, before we were even able to get their names or other information... No one was allowed to speak to the wounded or get any information from them.\" Hospital staff protested due to the restrictions. The government admitted to at least 27 fatalities in Tehran, while CNN and other news organizations reported 150 unconfirmed casualties from 20 June protests. International Campaign for Human Rights in Iran counted 34 of them, claiming to have eyewitness reports of much higher numbers. Human rights activists in Iran called for independently collecting information about the killed, injured, and arrested people.\n\nAmong those who were killed by the government forces, names such as Sohrab Aarabi, Naser Amirnejad, Masoud Hashemzadeh, and Mohammad Kamrani are confirmed. Among them, the death of Sohrab Aarabi received special news attention, after Mousavi and Karroubi visited his family.\n\nThe families of those who died were allegedly subjected to penalties and bureaucratic red tape, such as being asked to sign paperwork that they do not have complaints against the government prior to being allowed to claim bodies. When the death was due to gunshot wounds, some were reportedly asked to pay a $3,000 fee, ostensibly for the bullet used by security forces. Restrictions on burial locations have also been reported, and the Iranian government did not permit a memorial service for Neda Agha-Soltan. \"Time\" speculates that the Shi'ite cycle of mourning on the third (23 June), seventh (27 June), and 40th (30 July) day after a person's death may give the protests sustained momentum, similar in fashion to what occurred during the 1979 Iranian Revolution.\n\nOpposition leaders have claimed that the prisoners have been tortured and raped in prison. Opposition leaders and world leaders condemned the abuse. However, Iran's parliament speaker, Ali Larijani, denied that prisoners were abused.\n\nFormer chairman of Iranian parliament Mehdi Karroubi stated that male and female prisoners have been raped in the prison and their genitals were torn, but it is not yet proven. He asked the head of the assembly to investigate the issue in a letter to the head of Assembly of Experts. Iran's police chief, Gen. Ismail Ahmadi Moghaddam, acknowledged that the prisoners had been abused and raped.\n\nAdditionally, several of the detained died while in prison. Authorities claimed that the deaths were caused by \"pre-existing conditions\". However, examinations of the bodies showed signs of torture, including broken bones, finger nails torn off, and rape.\n\nIranian film maker Reza Allamehzadeh made a documentary about Azar Al-Kanan, a prominent Iranian human rights activist and former political prisoner in Iran who became one of the victims of torture, sexual abuse, and finally, rape. The documentary was released after ex-chairman of Iranian parliament Mehdi Karroubi called for investigation of sexual abuse of protesters in prisons by Iranian police and the judicial system, both under the responsibility of the Supreme Leader. Karroubi's letter angered conservatives and the head of Iranian parliament, Ali Larijani, and senior cleric and representative of the Supreme Leader, Ahmad Khatami, denied the reports of sexual abuse. Following the denials, on 16 August 2009, Fereshteh Ghazi, in an article in Rooz, wrote her story and described the torture and sexual violence in Iranian prison.\n\nTestimonies from victims of rape by the Iranian regime's agents in jail can be downloaded here: http://seculardemocracyiran.blogspot.com/2010/07/many-people-were-tortured-by-regime.html\n\nAccording to the \"Telegraph\", on 14 June \"Iran's regime was doing its utmost to choke off the flow of news from its capital\". Al Jazeera English has leveled allegations of direct media censorship by the Iranian government, stating that \"some of the newspapers have been given notices to change their editorials or their main headlines\". The Al Arabiya's offices in Tehran were closed on 14 June for a week by Iranian authorities, who gave no explanation for the decision. NBC News offices in Tehran were raided, with cameras and other equipment confiscated. Meanwhile, the director of BBC World Service accused the Iranian Government of jamming its broadcasts to the country. Peter Horrocks said audiences in Iran, the Middle East, and Europe had been affected by an electronic block on satellites used to broadcast the BBC Persian Television signal to Iran, adding: \"It seems to be part of a pattern of behaviour by the Iranian authorities to limit the reporting of the aftermath of the disputed election\". A BBC corporate official has referred to the network's conflict with the regime as 'electronic warfare'.\n\nOn 15 June, Belgian national television reporter Jef Lambrecht from the Flemish public television broadcaster VRT and his sound technician, Vandervorst, were arrested in Tehran. They had been doing a story on the riots and had gotten caught in the middle of the violence. While Lambrecht had taken a punch, Vandervorst was arrested by riot police. When Lambrecht went to check where Vandervorst was being taken, he was promptly arrested as well. Both were taken to the Ministry of Information and detained in the basement. They were both released after two hours with strict instructions not to make any photos or film recordings of the protests. At the same time, two Dutch reporters from Nova were also arrested and deported.\n\nOn 16 June, the Ministry of Culture issued a directive banning all foreign media from leaving their offices. This directive stipulated that international news outlets could still talk about rallies in their live reports, however, they were not allowed to leave their hotel rooms and offices to witness the protests. Iranian government-run television was not affected by the restrictions. On 20 June, the Ministry of Culture intensified the restrictions by banning international media from reporting on the demonstrations altogether unless they received permission from Iranian authorities.\n\nOn 5 August, the Association of Iranian Journalists was forcibly closed when its offices in Tehran were raided by government security forces. The International Federation of Journalists released a statement criticizing the Iranian government for the forcible closure of the Association of Iranian Journalists and calling for freedom of the press.\nBBC correspondent John Simpson was arrested, his material confiscated, and then released. Reporters from the Italian public television broadcaster RAI stated that one of its interpreters was beaten with clubs by riot police and the officers then confiscated the cameraman's tapes. ABC News reporter Jim Sciutto has also had material taken. People from the German public broadcasters ZDF and ARD have been harassed as well, with men carrying batons and knives reportedly storming the ARD's Tehran office and taking the technician for further questioning (who was released the day after).\n\nAhmadinejad responded to civil liberties concerns by stating Iranians enjoyed \"absolute freedom\" of speech. \"Don't worry about freedom in Iran ... Newspapers come and go and reappear. Don't worry about it.\"\n\nOn 5 July 2009, the \"Sunday Times\" reported that the Iranian state media have been transmitting \"confessions\" by demonstrators against the alleged rigging of the presidential vote claiming they did so under the influence of the Voice of America, the BBC, and other foreign media agencies. Their faces have been obscured in the TV broadcasts, which the newspaper claims, after speaking to witnesses, is due to facial bruising resulting from torture whilst in custody, which included several instances of male rape.\n\nOn Saturday following the elections, Mir-Hossein Mousavi's supporters started DDoS attacks against president Ahmadinejad's site and exchanged attack tools through sites such as Facebook and Twitter. After the attacks, the government stopped Internet access. On 13 June, as the election results were being announced, Iran shut down all Internet access for about 45 minutes, then restarted it apparently with lower bandwidth; this may have been in order to set up filters to block sites like YouTube that could be used for political purposes. When thousands of opposition supporters clashed with the police on 13 June, Facebook was filtered again. Some news websites were also blocked by the Iranian authorities. Mobile phone services including text messaging also had stopped or had become very difficult to use since the day before the election. Specifically, all websites affiliated with the BBC were blocked, as well as those affiliated with \"The Guardian\". Iranian Internet users used social media to trade lists of open web proxy servers as a means of getting around the restrictions, but the Iranian authorities monitoring these media gradually blocked these proxies, so that after two weeks very few proxies were still working in Iran. Associated Press labeled the actions as \"ominous measures apparently seeking to undercut liberal voices\". An anti-censorship software, Freegate, developed by Global Internet Freedom Consortium, was widely used and proven effective. The software was developed by oversea Chinese scientists to allow mainland Chinese users to break through the \"great firewall\" in China, and was also found to be very effective in Iran.\n\nIran was known to operate one of the world's most sophisticated Internet filtering systems, with widespread blockades on specific websites. During the protests, operation of this system dramatically intensified. Yet, Iranian Green Movement online activists continued their political activism and resisting online repression by adopting different strategies such as: \"(1) de-identification, (2) network reformation, (3) circumvention, (4) self-censoring, and (5) being inconspicuously active\" .\n\nOn 26 August, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei released a statement through Iranian state television. He said that although he did not believe opposition leaders were working as agents of foreign governments, he did believe that the protests were organized and planned, possibly without the knowledge of the Iranian political opposition. He said that \"This plot was defeated, since fortunately our enemies still do not understand the issue in Iran\", specifically pointing to foreign involvement in the protests.\n\nOn 16 June, \"Der Spiegel\" cited \"Voice of America\" as reporting that the Iranian government had recruited as many as 5,000 Lebanese Hezbollah fighters to clash with protesters. On 19 June, CNN reported that, according to media reports and online chatter, the Basij \"seem to have added some Arabic-speaking members – suspected of being [Lebanese] Hezbollah fighters.\" In response, a spokesman for Hezbollah denied any involvement with the turmoil in Iran and stated that Hezbollah is not taking sides in what it considers to be an internal Iranian affair.\n\nOn 17 June, \"The Jerusalem Post\" quoted two Iranian protesters who claimed that \"Palestinian forces\" (which the article states are members of Hamas) were working with the Basij in helping crush the protests.\n\n\n\n\n\nA number of Iranian intellectuals organized a three-day hunger strike in front of the United Nations. The invitation was signed by 42 scholars. The event was scheduled for 22–24 July 2009. Iranian journalist and writer, Akbar Ganji, spearheaded the strike to call for the release of all those who have been arrested in Iran following the protests.\n\nAmong the intellectuals that signed the invitation are: Abdolkarim Soroush, Hamid Dabashi, Mohsen Makhmalbaf, Abdol Ali Bazargan, and Janet Afary. Among the supporters of the initiative are Reza Baraheni and pop singers Ebrahim Hamedi, Googoosh, and Shohreh Aghdashlou. U.S. citizen Noam Chomsky was present at the hunger strike.\n\nA number of Iranians organized a two-day strike at Brandenburger Tor in Berlin, Germany. The event was scheduled for 24–25 July 2009. The invitation had a list of over twenty people as strikers so far and a considerable list of supporters. Among the strikers was Daryush Shokof.\n\nThe number of cities joining the Iranian global hunger strike reached over fifty with Toronto, Vancouver, Washington DC, Los Angeles, Chicago, London, as well as Italy, Australia, and Ireland. The hunger strikes are for freedom of all Iranian political prisoners and for \"not\" recognizing the presidential elections and its president Mahmoud Ahmadinejad in 2009.\n\nRobert Redford joined and supported the hunger strike in Washington on 20 July.\n\nBBC News has described the overall reaction by the international community to the 2009 Iranian presidential election as \"muted\". Mir-Hossein Mousavi has not asked for any kind of foreign assistance or called on other leaders to comment. His spokesperson, Mohsen Makhmalbaf, has criticized U.S. President Barack Obama for maintaining that the difference between Ahmadinejad and Mousavi \"may not be as great as has been advertised.\" Makhmalbaf retorted, \"Does he like it himself [when someone is] saying that there is no difference between Obama and [George W.] Bush?\" He also said that other nations must \"not recognize the government of Ahmadinejad as a legitimate government\" and that \"it's not only an internal matter- it's an international problem\".\n\nHowever, in international popular culture, the protest has \"morphed in the global consciousness, to the point that U2 and Madonna have adopted the cause of Iranian democracy,\" according to \"The New York Times\" Protesters have gathered in cities all over the world to protest the violence and election results. One of the largest protests was organized by United For Iran and held on 25 July 2009 in over 100 cities all over the world.\n\nAlthough the 2009 Iranian presidential election was widely disputed, UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon sent a traditional congratulatory message to Ahmadinejad upon his inauguration. He kept silent over the request of Shirin Ebadi to visit Iran after the crackdown on peaceful post-election protests by the Iranian police. During the election protests, more than 4,000 were arrested and nearly 70 were killed (with some sources, including Mohsen Kadivar, citing hundreds of killed), some while being held in prison. In another incident, prominent activisit Akbar Ganji went on a hunger strike for three days in front of the UN. The incident was followed by an official request by more than 200 intellectuals, human rights activists, and reformist politicians in Iran for a reaction from the UN. Ban, however, took no action to help end the violence in Iran.\n\nAbout eight players in the Iran national football team playing in their World Cup qualifier wore green wristbands in support for Mousavi for the first half of their game. During the break, they were ordered to remove them, seven of the eight complied. They were subsequently suspended. Likewise, Italian footballer Francesco Totti sent a message of greeting to the Iranian youth during the protests.\n\nA group of Iranian \"artists and writers in exile\" published an open letter in support of the protests. Significant protests have been held in major cities all throughout the world. Demonstrators in Los Angeles have protested daily calling not only for election reform but complete regime change. Demonstrators have been seen holding signs stating, \"No Ahmadi(nejad), no Mousavi, no Islamic Republic!,\" \"No more Islamic Republic.\"\n\n\"The Economist\" reported that supporters of Mousavi have enlisted religious symbolism on their side. This directly appeals to the notion of injustice and redemption at the heart of Shia Islam. Others, however, were irreligious in their protests.\n\nFor Iran, one of the links of communication exist solely because of the ideology the revolutionary movement was based upon Islamism (Poursaied, p. 136). The religious institutions were used to communicate from one revolutionary group to another. These institutions consist of \"mosques, ritual centres, and even charity funds, and these venues allowed people to gather right under the nose of the government in order to become organised.\n\nProtesters have deliberately dressed modestly. The marches in Tehran saw women in chadors and turbaned clerics, some of whom were seen thronging Mousavi's car during the 15 June rally at Revolution Square. According to Anna Johnson of Associated Press, conservative women in black chadors have joined the liberal youth for the common goal of trying to get their voices heard. The \"Time\" reported that some protesters believed they had a religious duty to protest.\n\nProtesters have also made use of slogans such as \"Allahu Akbar\" (a common Islamic Arabic saying that translates to \"God is great\") from the revolutionary era. Protesters on Twitter have urged marchers to carry copies of the Qur'an with them, citing its verses bringing about peace. When mourning the deaths of slain protesters, the marchers chanted \"Peace be upon (Prophet) Mohammed and his family.\"\nA bystander, Neda Agha-Soltan, who was killed by authorities, has been mythologised by the opposition as a martyr. The status of a martyr is revered in Shia Islam. To prevent this from happening, the authorities have tried to call off funeral services for her, which according to Shia Islam, must be held on the third, seventh, and 40th day after the martyr's passing. Robert Tait and Matthew Weaver of \"The Guardian\" noted that it was funeral processions on the 40th day of mourning of fallen protesters in 1979 that created momentum in toppling the shah's regime. The idea of martyrdom resonates deeply amongst the Shiite Muslim population of Iran. The Shiite faith was founded on the idea of self-sacrifice in the cause of justice.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6801570", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6801570", "title": "Bin bug", "text": "Bin bug\n\nThe term \"bin bug\" was coined in August 2006 by the British media to refer to the use of Radio Frequency Identification (RFID) chips by some local councils to monitor the amount of domestic waste created by each household. The system works by having a unique RFID chip for each household's non-recycling wheelie bin (such households have two bins: one for general waste and one recycling bin). The chip is scanned by the dustbin lorry and, as it lifts the bin, records the weight of the contents. This is then stored in a central database that monitors the non-recycled waste output of each household.\n\nIf the pilot schemes are successful it is expected that most British cities will introduce the system in the next two years. Three local councils in England and five Ulster councils have been trialling the scheme.\nWhile some councils informed the householders of their intentions to monitor their waste output many others did not. Worcester City Council, for example, detailed their plans through local newspaper \"Worcester News\" in August 2005. Aberdeen City Council kept the scheme quiet until a local newspaper ran the story; the council declared no intention to operate or bring the system online but did not rule out future use.\nSome councillors said that the purpose of the \"bin bugs\" was to settle disputes about the ownership of the bins, but others mentioned that the system is a trial and means that they are more prepared should the government introduce a household waste tax. The tax would be in the form of a charge for households that exceed set limits of non-recycled waste. With recycling in the UK amongst the lowest percentage in Europe at 18%, a new tax scheme would have the intention of encouraging domestic recycling and meeting European landfill reduction targets.\n\nEach RFID chip costs around £2, with each scanning system costing around £15,000. The Local Government Association (LGA) provided £5 million to councils to fund 40 pilot schemes. They are supplied by two rival German companies: Sulo and Deister Electronic. Some suggest that people who removed the chip might not have their bin emptied.\n\nThe motivation behind the RFID chips are to monitor the production of landfill waste so that councils can comply with the European Landfill Directive 1999/31/EC. \"\"\nThe standard regulating RFID tags for the waste industry is EN 14803 Identification and/or determination of the quantity of waste.\n\nThe RFID tag is located in a recess under the front lip of the bin, either as a self-contained unit or behind a plastic cap.\n\nThere is some debate as to the legality of removing the RFID chip.\n"}
{"id": "2800534", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2800534", "title": "Carboxymethyl cellulose", "text": "Carboxymethyl cellulose\n\nCarboxymethyl cellulose (CMC) or cellulose gum or tylose powder is a cellulose derivative with carboxymethyl groups (-CH-COOH) bound to some of the hydroxyl groups of the glucopyranose monomers that make up the cellulose backbone. It is often used as its sodium salt, sodium carboxymethyl cellulose.\n\nIt is synthesized by the alkali-catalyzed reaction of cellulose with chloroacetic acid. The polar (organic acid) carboxyl groups render the cellulose soluble and chemically reactive.\n\nFollowing the initial reaction, the resultant mixture produces about 60% CMC plus 40% salts (sodium chloride and sodium glycolate). This product is the so-called technical CMC which is used in detergents. A further purification process is used to remove these salts to produce the pure CMC used for food, pharmaceutical, and dentifrice (toothpaste) applications. An intermediate \"semipurified\" grade is also produced, typically used in paper applications such as restoration of archival documents.\n\nThe functional properties of CMC depend on the degree of substitution of the cellulose structure (i.e., how many of the hydroxyl groups have taken part in the substitution reaction), as well as the chain length of the cellulose backbone structure and the degree of clustering of the carboxymethyl substituents.\n\nCMC is used in food under the E number E466 or E469 (when it is enzymatically hydrolyzed) as a viscosity modifier or thickener, and to stabilize emulsions in various products including ice cream. It is also a constituent of many non-food products, such as toothpaste, laxatives, diet pills, water-based paints, detergents, textile sizing, reusable heat packs, and various paper products. It is used primarily because it has high viscosity, is nontoxic, and is generally considered to be hypoallergenic as the major source fiber is either softwood pulp or cotton linter. CMC is used extensively in gluten free and reduced fat food products. In laundry detergents, it is used as a soil suspension polymer designed to deposit onto cotton and other cellulosic fabrics, creating a negatively charged barrier to soils in the wash solution. CMC is used as a lubricant in artificial tears.\n\nCMC is also used as a thickening agent, for example, in the oil-drilling industry as an ingredient of drilling mud, where it acts as a viscosity modifier and water retention agent.\n\nKnitted fabric made of cellulose (e.g. cotton or viscose rayon) may be converted into CMC and used in various medical applications.\n\n\nInsoluble microgranular CMC is used as a cation-exchange resin in ion-exchange chromatography for purification of proteins. Presumably, the level of derivatization is much lower, so the solubility properties of microgranular cellulose are retained, while adding sufficient negatively charged carboxylate groups to bind to positively charged proteins.\n\nCMC is also used in ice packs to form a eutectic mixture resulting in a lower freezing point, and therefore more cooling capacity than ice.\n\nAqueous solutions of CMC have also been used to disperse carbon nanotubes. The long CMC molecules are thought to wrap around the nanotubes, allowing them to be dispersed in water. In conservation-restoration, it is used as an adhesive or fixative (commercial name Klucel).\n\nCMC is used to achieve tartrate or cold stability in wine. This innovation may save megawatts of electricity used to chill wine in warm climates. It is more stable than metatartaric acid and is very effective in inhibiting tartrate precipitation. It is reported that KHT crystals, in presence of CMC, grow slower and change their morphology. Their shape becomes flatter because they lose 2 of the 7 faces, changing their dimensions. CMC molecules, negatively charged at wine pH, interact with the electropositive surface of the crystals, where potassium ions are accumulated. The slower growth of the crystals and the modification of their shape are caused by the competition between CMC molecules and bitartrate ions for binding to the KHT crystals (Cracherau et al. 2001).\n\nIn veterinary medicine, CMC is used in abdominal surgeries in large animals, particularly horses, to prevent the formation of bowel adhesions.\n\nCMC is sometimes used as an electrode binder in advanced battery applications (i.e. lithium ion batteries), especially with graphite anodes. CMC's water solubility allows for less toxic and costly processing than with non-water soluble binders, like the traditional polyvinylidene fluoride (PVDF), which requires toxic n-methylpyrrolidone (NMP) for processing. CMC is often used in conjunction with styrene-butadiene rubber (SBR) for electrodes requiring extra flexibility, e.g. for use with silicon-containing anodes.\n\nCMC powder is widely used in the ice cream industry. It is used to make ice creams without churning mechanism or extreme low temperatures thereby eliminating the need of the conventional churners or salt ice mixes. CMC is used in bakery products like breads and cake preparation. The use of CMC gives loaf a much improved quality at a reduced cost to the baker economizing on the fat component. CMC is also used as an emulsifier in producing high quality biscuits. Due to CMC, fat disperses uniformly in the dough and hence CMC improves the release of the dough from the moulds and cutters to achieve well-shaped biscuits without any distorted edges. It can help to reduce consumption of egg yolk or fat used in making biscuits, thus achieving economy. Use of CMC in candy preparation ensures smooth dispersion in flavour oils, improves texture & quality. They are used in chewing gums, margarines and peanut butter as emulsifier, also it is used in leather crafting to burnish the edges.\n\nCMC has also been used extensively to characterize enzyme activity from endoglucanases (part of the cellulase complex). CMC is a highly specific substrate for endo-acting cellulases, as its structure has been engineered to decrystallize cellulose and create amorphous sites that are ideal for endoglucanase action. CMC is desirable because the catalysis product (glucose) is easily measured using a reducing sugar assay, such as 3,5-dinitrosalicylic acid. Using CMC in enzyme assays is especially important in regard to screening for cellulase enzymes that are needed for more efficient cellulosic ethanol conversion. However, CMC has also been misused in earlier work with cellulase enzymes, as many had associated whole cellulase activity with CMC hydrolysis. As the mechanism of cellul\n\nWhile thought to be uncommon, case reports of severe reactions to carboxymethyl cellulose exist. In one such instance, a woman was known to experience anaphylaxis following exposure. Skin testing is believed to be a useful diagnostic tool for this purpose.\n\nEffects on inflammation, microbiota-related metabolic syndrome, and colitis are a subject of research.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2994439", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2994439", "title": "Centralverein deutscher Staatsbürger jüdischen Glaubens", "text": "Centralverein deutscher Staatsbürger jüdischen Glaubens\n\nThe Centralverein deutscher Staatsbürger jüdischen Glaubens (also: Zentral-Verein, Central Verein, CV, C.V., C.-V.) (Central Association of German Citizens of Jewish Faith) was founded by German Jewish intellectuals on 26 March 1893 in Berlin, with the intention of opposing the rise of antisemitism in the German Empire. Shortly after its founding it had 1,420, and in 1926 approximately 60,000 members.\n\nIt was founded in Berlin by Jewish intellectuals on 26 March 1893. The CV’s aim was to unify German citizens of Jewish faith, to fight for the Jews’ rights as citizens and to combat rising antisemitism. Commitment to the German Nation was an important part of the CV’s agenda - the members saw themselves primarily as German citizens with their own religion. Consequently, the CV repudiated Zionism.\n\nBeginning in 1922, the CV published a weekly newspaper, called C.V.-Zeitung (C.V.-Newspaper) and continued fighting the rising antisemitic threat. Through publications and conversations with the President of Germany Paul von Hindenburg and economic leaders the CV tried to call attention to the threat. In 1926 there were approximately 60,000 members.\nIn 1928 the \"Büro Wilhelmstrasse\" (Wilhelmstrasse Office) was created with instrumental support of Alfred Wiener. It documented Nazi activities and issued anti-Nazi materials until 1933, when Hitler came to power. During the Nazi era, the CV was forced to change its name several times. From 1936 onwards it was called \"Jüdischer Central Verein\" (Jewish Central Association). After the Kristallnacht (Night of Broken Glass or November Pogrom) in 1938 the CV had to stop publishing its newspaper and the association was prohibited a short time later.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3440970", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3440970", "title": "Cluster Munition Coalition", "text": "Cluster Munition Coalition\n\nThe Cluster Munition Coalition (CMC) is an international civil society movement campaigning against the use, production, stockpiling and transfer of cluster munitions. Cluster munitions are a type of explosive weapon widely stockpiled by more than 80 states. They are documented to have caused significant civilian deaths and injuries and have frequently caused indiscriminate effects both during and after conflicts. Their use is prohibited under the 2008 Convention on Cluster Munitions. This convention was formally endorsed on 30 May 2008 in Dublin, Ireland, and was signed by 94 countries in Oslo on 3–4 December 2008. The Convention entered into force and became binding international law on 1 August 2010, after 30 countries formally ratified it. As of 4 January 2012, it had been signed by 111 countries, 77 of which have ratified it.\n\nThe CMC, formed in November 2003, is a network of civil society organizations, including NGOs, faith-based groups and professional organizations. It includes large worldwide organizations, such as Amnesty International, Handicap International and Human Rights Watch, as well as nationally based organizations (such as the Swedish Peace and Arbitration Society and Legacies of War) and national campaigns (such as the Philippines Campaign against Cluster Munitions and the Aotearoa New Zealand Cluster Munition Coalition).\n\nAll of these organizations share a common goal of preventing the adverse humanitarian and development impacts from cluster munitions and providing assistance to the victims and survivors of cluster munitions, as well as ensuring their inclusion in society. Organizations and individuals that make up the CMC also work directly to address the effects of cluster munitions through the course of their work in conflict zones, providing assistance to victims, clearing areas contaminated by cluster munitions, investigating human rights abuses and violations of international humanitarian law.\n\nMembers of the CMC network worked together on an international campaign to ban cluster munitions and successfully brought about the signature by 94 countries of the Convention on Cluster Munitions in Oslo on 3–4 December 2008. The CMC is now campaigning for accession and ratification of this comprehensive ban by all states its full and effective implementation by all States Parties; the universalization of its norms; and the rigorous monitoring of states' compliance with it.\n\nThe CMC is an example of the emerging model of international diplomacy that involves the coordination of global grassroots initiatives to promote a specific goal, engaging in an international diplomatic process in partnership with like-minded states. An important focus for the CMC was to ensure those affected by cluster munitions were able to play a key role in shaping the outcome of the campaign and the international treaty it has brought about. This has been demonstrated by affected states such as Lebanon and Lao PDR, who were at the forefront of the diplomatic negotiations, as well as the active roles played within the CMC by individual survivors of cluster bombs (such as Branislav Kapetanovic and others involved with the Ban Advocates initiative set up by Handicap International).\n\nIn 2011, the International Campaign to Ban Landmines (ICBL) and Cluster Munition Coalition (CMC) merged into one unified structure, now known as the ICBL-CMC, in order to realize operational efficiencies and reinforce complementary work. The ICBL and the CMC campaigns remain separate and continue to remind governments of their commitments to implement and promote both treaties. Landmine and Cluster Munition Monitor continues its unique civil society monitoring program on the humanitarian and developmental consequences of landmines, cluster munitions, and explosive remnants of war.\n\nThe activities of the ICBL-CMC are supported by a Governance Board representative of various elements of the ICBL that provides strategic, financial and human resources oversight. An Advisory Committee provides more regular input to staff and the working of the campaign. Four ambassadors serve as campaign representatives at speaking events and other conferences worldwide. They include Jody Williams, Tun Channareth (Cambodian landmine survivor), Song Kosal (Cambodian landmine survivor), and Margaret Arech Orech (Ugandan landmine survivor and founder of Ugandan Landmine Survivors Association). Currently, the ICBL has 14 staff members based in Geneva (the central office), Lyon, Paris, and Ottawa. Additionally, the ICBL-CMC hosts several interns each year.\n\nThrough their activities, the member organizations that make up the CMC have researched the effects of cluster munitions on civilians. Landmine and Cluster Munition Monitor is the ICBL-CMC's research and monitoring arm. It is the \"de facto\" monitoring regime for the Mine Ban Treaty and the Convention on Cluster Munitions. It monitors and reports on States Parties' implementation of and compliance with the Mine Ban Treaty and the Convention on Cluster Munitions, and more generally, it assesses the problems caused by landmines, cluster munitions, and other explosive remnants of war (ERW). The Monitor represents the first time that NGOs have come together in a coordinated, systematic, and sustained way to monitor humanitarian law or disarmament treaties, and to regularly document progress and problems, thereby successfully putting into practice the concept of civil society-based verification. Since its creation in 1998, Monitor research has been carried out by a global network of primarily in-country researchers, most of them ICBL-CMC campaigners, and all content undergoes rigorous editing by the Monitor's Editorial Team prior to publication.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "190287", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=190287", "title": "Congo Free State", "text": "Congo Free State\n\nThe Congo Free State (, \"Independent State of the Congo\"; ) was a large state in Central Africa from 1885 to 1908. It was ruled personally by Leopold II and operated entirely separate from Belgium, of which he was also king. Leopold II was able to procure the region by convincing other Eurasian states at the Berlin Conference that he was involved in humanitarian and philanthropic work and would not tax trade. Via the Association internationale africaine, he was able to lay claim to most of the Congo basin. On 29 May 1885, the king announced that he planned to rename his new colony \"the Congo Free State\", a name which officially replaced \"Association Internationale Africaine\" on 1 August 1885. The Congo Free State operated as a corporate state privately controlled by Leopold II through a non-governmental organization, the International Association of the Congo. The state included the entire area of the present Democratic Republic of the Congo and existed from 1885 to 1908, when the government of Belgium reluctantly annexed the area.\n\nLeopold's reign in the Congo eventually earned infamy on account of the atrocities perpetrated on the locals. Leopold II's Free State extracted ivory, rubber and minerals in the upper Congo basin for sale on the world market through a series of international concessionary companies, even though its ostensible purpose in the region was to uplift the local people and develop the area. Under Leopold II's administration, the Congo Free State became one of the greatest international scandals of the early 20th century. The Casement Report of the British Consul Roger Casement led to the arrest and punishment of officials who had been responsible for killings during a rubber-collecting expedition in 1903.\n\nThe loss of life and atrocities inspired literature such as Joseph Conrad's novel \"Heart of Darkness\" and raised an international outcry. Debate has been ongoing about the high death rate in this period. The boldest estimates state that the forced labour system led directly and indirectly to the deaths of 50 percent of the population. The lack of accurate records makes it difficult to quantify the number of deaths caused by the ruthless exploitation and the lack of immunity to new diseases introduced by contact with European colonists. During the Congo Free State propaganda war, European and US reformers exposed atrocities in the Congo Free State to the public through the Congo Reform Association, founded by Roger Casement and the journalist, author, and politician E. D. Morel. Also active in exposing the activities of the Congo Free State was the author Arthur Conan Doyle, whose book \"The Crime of the Congo\" was widely read in the early 1900s. By 1908, public pressure and diplomatic manoeuvres led to the end of Leopold II's rule and to the annexation of the Congo Free State as a colony of Belgium. It became known thereafter as the Belgian Congo. In addition, a number of major Belgian investment companies pushed the Belgian government to take over the Congo and develop the mining sector, as it was virtually untapped.\n\nDiogo Cão traveled around the mouth of the Congo River in 1482, leading Portugal to claim the region as England did with River Victoria. Until the middle of the 19th century, the Congo was at the heart of independent Africa, as European colonialists seldom entered the interior. Along with fierce local resistance, the rainforest, swamps, and attendant malaria, and other diseases such as sleeping sickness made it a difficult environment for Europeans to settle. Western states were at first reluctant to colonize the area in the absence of obvious economic benefits.\n\nIn 1876 Leopold II of Belgium hosted a geographic conference in Brussels, inviting famous explorers, philanthropists, and members of geographic societies to stir up interest in a \"humanitarian\" endeavor for Europeans to take in central Africa to \"improve\" and \"civilize\" the lives of the indigenous peoples. At the conference, Leopold organized the International African Association with the cooperation of European and American explorers and the support of several European governments, and was himself elected chairman. Leopold used the association to promote plans to seize independent central Africa under this philanthropic guise.\n\nHenry Morton Stanley, famous for making contact with British missionary David Livingstone in Africa in 1871, later explored the region during a journey that ended in 1877 and was described in Stanley's 1878 novel \"Through the Dark Continent\". Failing to enlist British interest in developing the Congo region, Stanley took up service with Leopold II, who hired him to help gain a foothold in the region and annex the region for himself.\n\nFrom August 1879 to June 1884 Stanley was in the Congo basin, where he built a road from the lower Congo up to Stanley Pool and launched steamers on the upper river. While exploring the Congo for Leopold, Stanley set up treaties with the local chiefs and with native leaders. Few to none of these tribal leaders had a realistic idea of what they were signing, and, in essence, the documents gave over all rights of their respective pieces of land to King Leopold II. With Stanley's help, Leopold was able to claim a great area along the Congo River, and military posts were established.\n\nChristian de Bonchamps, a French explorer who served Leopold in Katanga, expressed attitudes towards such treaties shared by many Europeans, saying, \"The treaties with these little African tyrants, which generally consist of four long pages of which they do not understand a word, and to which they sign a cross in order to have peace and to receive gifts, are really only serious matters for the European powers, in the event of disputes over the territories. They do not concern the black sovereign who signs them for a moment.\"\n\nLeopold began to create a plan to convince other European powers of the legitimacy of his claim to the region, all the while maintaining the guise that his work was for the benefit of the native peoples under the name of a philanthropic \"association\".\n\nThe king launched a publicity campaign in Britain to distract critics, drawing attention to Portugal's record of slavery, and offering to drive slave traders from the Congo basin. He also secretly told British merchant houses that if he was given formal control of the Congo for this and other humanitarian purposes, he would then give them the same most favored nation (MFN) status Portugal had offered them. At the same time, Leopold promised Bismarck he would not give any one nation special status, and that German traders would be as welcome as any other.\nLeopold then offered France the support of the association for French ownership of the entire northern bank of the Congo, and sweetened the deal by proposing that, if his personal wealth proved insufficient to hold the entire Congo, as seemed utterly inevitable, that it should revert to France. On April 23, 1884, the International Association's claim on the southern Congo basin was formally recognized by France on condition that the French got the first option to buy the territory if the association decided to sell. This may also have helped Leopold in gaining recognition for his claim by the other major powers, who thus wanted him to succeed instead of selling his claims to France.\n\nHe also enlisted the aid of the United States, sending President Chester A. Arthur carefully edited copies of the cloth-and-trinket treaties British explorer Henry Morton Stanley claimed to have negotiated with various local authorities, and proposing that, as an entirely disinterested humanitarian body, the association would administer the Congo for the good of all, handing over power to the locals as soon as they were ready for that responsibility.\n\nKing Leopold wanted to have the United States to support his plans for the Congo in order to have support from the European nations. He had help from Henry Shelton Sanford who helped employ Henry Morton Stanleywho became an important asset to Leopold’s plan. Henry Sanford swayed Chester A. Arthur by inviting him to stay as his guest at Sanford House hotel on Lake Monroe while he was in Belgium.  On November 29, 1883, during his meeting with the President, as Leopold’s envoy, he convinced the President that Leopold agenda was similar to the United States involvement in Liberia. This satisfied Southern politicians and businessmen, especially John Tyler Morgan. Morgan saw Congo as the same opportunity to send freedmen to Africa so they can contribute and build the cotton market. Sanford also convinced the people in New York that they were going to abolish slavery and aid travelers and scientists in order to have the public support. After Henry actions of convincing President Chester A. Arthur, the United States was the first country to recognize Congo as a legitimate sovereign state.\n\nLeopold was able to attract scientific and humanitarian backing for the International African Association (, or AIA), which he formed during a Brussels Geographic Conference of geographic societies, explorers, and dignitaries he hosted in 1876. At the conference, Leopold proposed establishing an international benevolent committee for the propagation of civilization among the peoples of central Africa (the Congo region). Originally conceived as a multi-national, scientific, and humanitarian assembly, the AIA eventually became a development company controlled by Leopold.\n\nAfter 1879 and the crumbling of the International African Association, Leopold's work was done under the auspices of the \"Committee for Studies of the Upper Congo\" (). The committee, supposedly an international commercial, scientific, and humanitarian group, was in fact made of a group of businessmen who had shares in the Congo, with Leopold holding a large block by proxy. The committee itself eventually disintegrated (but Leopold continued to refer to it and use the defunct organization as a smokescreen for his operations in laying claim to the Congo region).\n\nDetermined to look for a colony for himself and inspired by recent reports from central Africa, Leopold began patronizing a number of leading explorers, including Henry Morton Stanley. Leopold established the International African Association, a charitable organization to oversee the exploration and surveying of a territory based around the Congo River, with the stated goal of bringing humanitarian assistance and civilization to the natives. In the Berlin Conference of 1884–85, European leaders officially noted Leopold's control over the of the notionally-independent Congo Free State.\n\nTo give his African operations a name that could serve for a political entity, Leopold created, between 1879 and 1882, the International Association of the Congo (, or AIC) as a new umbrella organization. This organization sought to combine the numerous small territories acquired into one sovereign state and asked for recognition from the European powers. On April 22, 1884, thanks to the successful lobbying of businessman Henry Shelton Sanford at Leopold's request, President Chester A. Arthur of the United States decided that the cessions claimed by Leopold from the local leaders were lawful and recognized the International Association of the Congo's claim on the region, becoming the first country to do so. In 1884, the US Secretary of State said, \"The Government of the United States announces its sympathy with and approval of the humane and benevolent purposes of the International Association of the Congo.\"\n\nIn November 1884, Otto von Bismarck convened a 14-nation conference to submit the Congo question to international control and to finalize the colonial partitioning of the African continent. Most major powers (including Austria-Hungary, Belgium, France, Germany, Portugal, Italy, the United Kingdom, Russia, the Ottoman Empire, and the United States) attended the Berlin Conference, and drafted an international code governing the way that European countries should behave as they acquired African territory. The conference officially recognized the International Congo Association, and specified that it should have no connection with Belgium or any other country, but would be under the personal control of King Leopold, i.e., personal union.\n\nIt drew specific boundaries and specified that all nations should have access to do business in the Congo with no tariffs. The slave trade would be suppressed. In 1885, Leopold emerged triumphant. France was given on the north bank (the modern Congo-Brazzaville and Central African Republic), Portugal to the south (modern Angola), and Leopold's personal organisation received the balance: , with about 30 million people. However, it still remained for these territories to be occupied under the conference's \"Principle of Effective Occupation\".\n\nFollowing the United States's recognition of Leopold's colony, other European powers deliberated on the news. Portugal flirted with the French at first, but the British offered to support Portugal's claim to the entire Congo in return for a free trade agreement and to spite their French rivals. Britain was uneasy at French expansion and had a technical claim on the Congo via Lieutenant Cameron's 1873 expedition from Zanzibar to bring home Livingstone's body, but was reluctant to take on yet another expensive, unproductive colony. Bismarck of Germany had vast new holdings in southwest Africa, and had no plans for the Congo, but was happy to see rivals Britain and France excluded from the colony.\n\nIn 1885, Leopold's efforts to establish Belgian influence in the Congo Basin were awarded with the \"État Indépendant du Congo\" (CFS, Congo Free State). By a resolution passed in the Belgian parliament, Leopold became \"roi souverain\", sovereign king, of the newly formed CFS, over which he enjoyed nearly absolute control. The CFS (today the Democratic Republic of the Congo), a country of over two million square kilometers, became Leopold's personal property, the \"Domaine Privé\". Eventually, the Congo Free State was recognized as a neutral independent sovereignty by various European and North American states.\n\nLeopold used the title Sovereign King as ruler of the Congo Free State. He appointed the heads of the three departments of state: interior, foreign affairs and finances. Each was headed by an administrator-general (\"administrateur-général\"), later a secretary-general (\"secrétaire-général\"), who was obligated to enact the policies of the sovereign or else resign. Below the secretaries-general were a series of bureaucrats of decreasing rank: directors general (\"directeurs généraux\"), directors (\"directeurs\"), \"chefs de divisions\" (division chiefs) and \"chefs de bureaux\" (bureau chiefs). The departments were headquartered in Brussels.\n\nFinance was in charge of accounting for income and expenditure and tracking the public debt. Besides diplomacy, foreign affairs was in charge of shipping, education, religion and commerce. The department of the interior was responsible for defence, police, public health and public works. It was also charged with overseeing the exploitation of the Congo's natural resources and plantations. In 1904, the secretary-general of the interior set up a propaganda office, the \"Bureau central de la presse\" (\"Central Press Bureau\"), in Frankfurt under the auspices of the \"Comité pour la représentation des intérêts coloniaux en Afrique\" (in German, \"Komitee zur Wahrung der kolonialen Interessen in Afrika\", \"Committee for the Representation of Colonial Interests in Africa\").\n\nThe oversight of all the departments was nominally in the hands of the Governor-General (\"Gouverneur général\"), but this office was at times more honorary than real. When the governor-general was in Belgium he was represented in the Congo by a vice governor-general (\"vice-gouverneur général\"), who was nominally equal in rank to a secretary-general but in fact was beneath them in power and influence. A \"Comité consultatif\" (consultative committee) made up of civil servants was set up in 1887 to assist the governor-general, but he was not obliged to consult it. The vice governor-general on the ground had a state secretary through whom he communicated with his district officers.\n\nThe Free State had an independent judiciary headed by a minister of justice at Boma. The minister was equal in rank to the vice governor-general and initially answered to the governor-general, but was eventually made responsible to the sovereign alone. There was a supreme court composed of three judges, which heard appeals, and below it a high court of one judge. These sat at Boma. In addition to these, there were district courts and public prosecutors (\"procureurs d'état\"). Justice, however, was slow and the system ill-suited to a frontier society.\n\nLeopold no longer needed the façade of the \"association\", and replaced it with an appointed cabinet of Belgians who would do his bidding. To the temporary new capital of Boma, he sent a governor-general and a chief of police. The vast Congo basin was split up into 14 administrative districts, each district into zones, each zone into sectors, and each sector into posts. From the district commissioners down to post level, every appointed head was European. However, with little financial means the Free State mainly relied on local elites to rule and tax the vast and hard-to-reach Congolese interior.\n\nLeopold pledged to suppress the east African slave trade; promote humanitarian policies; guarantee free trade within the colony; impose no import duties for twenty years; and encourage philanthropic and scientific enterprises. Beginning in the mid-1880s, Leopold first decreed that the state asserted rights of proprietorship over all vacant lands throughout the Congo territory. In three successive decrees, Leopold promised the rights of the Congolese in their land to native villages and farms, essentially making nearly all of the CFS \"terres domainales\" (state-owned land). Leopold further decreed that merchants should limit their commercial operations in rubber trade with the natives. Additionally, the colonial administration liberated thousands of slaves.\n\nFour main problems presented themselves over the next few years.\n\nLeopold could not meet the costs of running the Congo Free State. Desperately, he set in motion a system to maximize revenue. The first change was the introduction of the concept of \"terres vacantes\", \"vacant\" land, which was any land that did not contain a habitation or a cultivated garden plot. All of this land (i.e., most of the country) was therefore deemed to belong to the state. Servants of the state (namely any men in Leopold's employ) were encouraged to exploit it.\n\nShortly after the anti-slavery conference he held in Brussels in 1889, Leopold issued a new decree which said that Africans could only sell their harvested products (mostly ivory and rubber) to the state in a large part of the Free State. This law grew out of the earlier decree which had said that all \"unoccupied\" land belonged to the state. Any ivory or rubber collected from the state-owned land, the reasoning went, must belong to the state; creating a de facto state-controlled monopoly. Suddenly, the only outlet a large share of the local population had for their products was the state, which could set purchase prices and therefore could control the amount of income the Congolese could receive for their work. However, for local elites this system presented new opportunities as the Free State and concession companies paid them with guns to tax their subjects in kind.\n\nTrading companies began to lose out to the free state government, which not only paid no taxes but also collected all the potential income. These companies were outraged by the restrictions on free trade, which the Berlin Act had so carefully protected years before. Their protests against the violation of free trade prompted Leopold to take another, less obvious tack to make money.\n\nA decree in 1892 divided the \"terres vacantes\" into a domainal system, which privatized extraction rights over rubber for the state in certain private domains, allowing Leopold to grant vast concessions to private companies. In other areas, private companies could continue to trade but were highly restricted and taxed. The domainal system enforced an in-kind tax on the Free State's Congolese subjects. As essential intermediaries, local rulers forced their men, women and children to collect rubber, ivory and foodstuffs. Depending on the power of local rulers, the Free State paid below rising market prices. In October 1892, Leopold granted concessions to a number of companies. Each company was given a large amount of land in the Congo Free State on which to collect rubber and ivory for sale in Europe. These companies were allowed to detain Africans who did not work hard enough, to police their vast areas as they saw fit and to take all the products of the forest for themselves. In return for their concessions, these companies paid an annual dividend to the Free State. At the height of the rubber boom, from 1901 until 1906, these dividends also filled the royal coffers.\n\nThe Free Trade Zone in the Congo was open to entrepreneurs of any European nation, who were allowed to buy 10- and 15-year monopoly leases on anything of value: ivory from a district or the rubber concession, for example. The other zone—almost two-thirds of the Congo—became the \"Domaine Privé\", the exclusive private property of the state.\n\nIn 1893, Leopold excised the most readily accessible portion of the Free Trade Zone and declared it to be the \"Domaine de la Couronne\", literally, \"fief of the crown\". Rubber revenue went directly to Leopold who paid the Free State for the high costs of exploitation. The same rules applied as in the \"Domaine Privé\". In 1896 global demand for rubber soared. From that year onwards, the Congolese rubber sector started to generate vast sums of money at an immense cost for the local population.\n\nEarly in Leopold's rule, the second problem—the British South Africa Company's expansionism into the southern Congo Basin—was addressed. The distant Yeke Kingdom, in Katanga on the upper Lualaba River, had signed no treaties, was known to be rich in copper and thought to have much gold from its slave-trading activities. Its powerful \"mwami\" (big chief), Msiri, had already rejected a treaty brought by Alfred Sharpe on behalf of Cecil Rhodes. In 1891 a Free State expedition extracted a letter from Msiri agreeing to their agents coming to Katanga and later that year Leopold II sent the well-armed Stairs Expedition, led by the Canadian-British captain William Grant Stairs, to take possession of Katanga one way or another.\n\nMsiri tried to play the Free State off against Rhodes and when negotiations bogged down, Stairs flew the Free State flag anyway and gave Msiri an ultimatum. Instead, Msiri decamped to another stockade. Stairs sent a force to capture him but Msiri stood his ground, whereupon Captain Omer Bodson shot Msiri dead and was fatally wounded in the resulting fight. The expedition cut off Msiri's head and put it on a pole, as he had often done to his enemies. This was to impress upon the locals that Msiri's rule had really ended, after which the successor chief recognized by Stairs signed the treaty.\n\nIn the short term, the third problem, that of the African and Arab slavers like Zanzibari/Swahili strongman Tippu Tip (nom de guerre)—his real name was Hamad bin Muhammad bin Juma bin Rajab el Murjebi—was temporarily solved. Initially the authority of the Congo Free State was relatively weak in the eastern regions of the Congo.\n\nIn early 1887, Henry Morton Stanley arrived in Zanzibar and proposed that \"Tippu Tip\" be made governor (wali) of the Stanley Falls District. Both Leopold II and Barghash bin Said agreed and on February 24, 1887, Tippu Tip accepted.\n\nIn the longer term this alliance was undefendable at home and abroad. Leopold II was heavily criticized by the European public opinion, for his dealings with Tippu Tip. In Belgium, the Belgian Anti-Slavery Society was founded in 1888, mainly by Catholic intellectuals, led by count Hippolyte d'Ursel, aimed at abolishing the Arab slave trade. Furthermore, Tippu Tip and Leopold were commercial rivals. Every person that Tippu Tip hunted down and put into chattel slavery and every pound of ivory he exported to Zanzibar was a loss to Leopold II. This, and Leopold's humanitarian pledges to the Berlin Conference to end slavery, meant war was inevitable.\n\nOpen warfare broke out in late November 1892. Both sides fought by proxy, arming and leading the populations of the upper Congo forests in a conflict. By early 1894 the Zanzibari/Swahili slavers were defeated in the eastern Congo region and the Congo Arab war came to an end.\n\nIn 1894, King Leopold II signed a treaty with Great Britain which conceded a strip of land on the Free State's eastern border in exchange for the Lado Enclave, which provided access to the navigable Nile and extended the Free State's sphere of influence northwards into Sudan. After rubber profits soared in 1895, Leopold ordered the organization of an expedition into the Lado Enclave, which had been overrun by Mahdist rebels since the outbreak of the Mahdist War in 1881. The expedition was composed of two columns: the first, under Belgian war hero Baron Dhanis, consisted of a sizable force, numbering around three-thousand, and was to strike north through the jungle and attack the rebels at their base at Rejaf. The second, a much smaller force of only eight-hundred, was led by Louis-Napoléon Chaltin and took the main road towards Rejaf. Both expeditions set out in December 1896.\n\nAlthough Leopold II had initially planned for the expedition to carry on much farther than the Lado Enclave, hoping indeed to take Fashoda and then Khartoum, Dhanis' column mutinied in February 1897, resulting in the death of several Belgian officers and the loss of his entire force. Nonetheless, Chaltin continued his advance, and on 17 February 1897, his outnumbered forces defeated the rebels in the Battle of Rejaf, securing the Lado Enclave as a Belgian territory until Leopold's death in 1909. Leopold's conquest of the Lado Enclave pleased the British government, at least initially, which welcomed any aid in their ongoing war with Mahdist Sudan. But frequent raids outside of Lado territory by Belgian Congolese forces based in Rejaf caused alarm and suspicion among British and French officials wary of Leopold's imperial ambitions. In 1910, following the Belgian annexation of the Congo Free State as the Belgian Congo in 1908 and the death of the Belgian King in December 1909, British authorities reclaimed the Lado Enclave as per the Anglo-Congolese treaty signed in 1894, and added the territory to Anglo-Egyptian Sudan.\n\nWhile the war against African powers was ending, the quest for income was increasing, fueled by the aire policy. By 1890, Leopold was facing considerable financial difficulty. District officials' salaries were reduced to a bare minimum, and made up with a commission payment based on the profit that their area returned to Leopold. After widespread criticism, this \"primes system\" was substituted for the \"allocation de retraite\" in which a large part of the payment was granted, at the end of the service, only to those territorial agents and magistrates whose conduct was judged \"satisfactory\" by their superiors. This meant in practice that nothing changed. Congolese communities in the \"Domaine Privé\" were not merely forbidden by law to sell items to anyone but the state; they were required to provide state officials with set quotas of rubber and ivory at a fixed, government-mandated price and to provide food to the local post.\n\nIn direct violation of his promises of free trade within the CFS under the terms of the Berlin Treaty, not only had the state become a commercial entity directly or indirectly trading within its dominion, but also, Leopold had been slowly monopolizing a considerable amount of the ivory and rubber trade by imposing export duties on the resources traded by other merchants within the CFS. In terms of infrastructure, Leopold's regime began construction of the railway that ran from the coast to the capital of Leopoldville (now Kinshasa). This project, known today as the Matadi–Kinshasa Railway, took years to complete.\n\nBy the final decade of the 19th century, John Boyd Dunlop’s 1887 invention of inflatable, rubber bicycle tubes and the growing popularity of the automobile dramatically increased global demand for rubber. To monopolize the resources of the entire Congo Free State, Leopold issued three decrees in 1891 and 1892 that reduced the native population to serfs. Collectively, these forced the natives to deliver all ivory and rubber, harvested or found, to state officers thus nearly completing Leopold's monopoly of the ivory and rubber trade. The rubber came from wild vines in the jungle, unlike the rubber from Brazil (\"Hevea brasiliensis\"), which was tapped from trees. To extract the rubber, instead of tapping the vines, the Congolese workers would slash them and lather their bodies with the rubber latex. When the latex hardened, it would be scraped off the skin in a painful manner, as it took off the worker's hair with it.\n\nThe \"Force Publique\" (FP), Leopold's private army, was used to enforce the rubber quotas. Early on, the FP was used primarily to campaign against the Arab slave trade in the Upper Congo, protect Leopold's economic interests, and suppress the frequent uprisings within the state. The Force Publique's officer corps included only white Europeans (Belgian regular soldiers and mercenaries from other countries). On arriving in the Congo, these recruited men from Zanzibar and west Africa, and eventually from the Congo itself. In addition, Leopold had been actually encouraging the slave trade among Arabs in the Upper Congo in return for slaves to fill the ranks of the FP. During the 1890s, the FP's primary role was to exploit the natives as corvée laborers to promote the rubber trade.\n\nMany of the black soldiers were from far-off peoples of the Upper Congo, while others had been kidnapped in raids on villages in their childhood and brought to Roman Catholic missions, where they received a military training in conditions close to slavery. Armed with modern weapons and the \"chicotte\"—a bull whip made of hippopotamus hide—the \"Force Publique\" routinely took and tortured hostages, slaughtered families of rebels, and flogged and raped Congolese people with a reign of terror and abuse that cost millions of lives. One refugee from these horrors described the process:\nWe were always in the forest to find the rubber vines, to go without food, and our women had to give up cultivating the fields and gardens. Then we starved... When we failed and our rubber was short, the soldiers came to our towns and killed us. Many were shot, some had their ears cut off; others were tied up with ropes round their necks and taken away.\n\nThey also burned recalcitrant villages, and above all, cut off the hands of Congolese natives, including children. The human hands were collected as trophies on the orders of their officers to show that bullets had not been wasted. Officers were concerned that their subordinates might waste their ammunition on hunting animals for sport, so they required soldiers to submit one hand for every bullet spent. These mutilations also served to further terrorize the Congolese into submission. This was all contrary to the promises of uplift made at the Berlin Conference which had recognized the Congo Free State.\n\nFailure to meet the rubber collection quotas was punishable by death. Meanwhile, the Force Publique were required to provide the hand of their victims as proof when they had shot and killed someone, as it was believed that they would otherwise use the munitions (imported from Europe at considerable cost) for hunting. As a consequence, the rubber quotas were in part paid off in chopped-off hands. Sometimes the hands were collected by the soldiers of the Force Publique, sometimes by the villages themselves. There were even small wars where villages attacked neighboring villages to gather hands, since their rubber quotas were too unrealistic to fill. A Catholic priest quotes a man, Tswambe, speaking of the hated state official Léon Fiévez, who ran a district along the river north of Stanley Pool:\n\nAll blacks saw this man as the devil of the Equator ... From all the bodies killed in the field, you had to cut off the hands. He wanted to see the number of hands cut off by each soldier, who had to bring them in baskets ... A village which refused to provide rubber would be completely swept clean. As a young man, I saw [Fiévez's] soldier Molili, then guarding the village of Boyeka, take a net, put ten arrested natives in it, attach big stones to the net, and make it tumble into the river ... Rubber causes these torments; that's why we no longer want to hear its name spoken. Soldiers made young men kill or rape their own mothers and sisters.\n\nOne junior officer described a raid to punish a village that had protested. The officer in command \"ordered us to cut off the heads of the men and hang them on the village palisades ... and to hang the women and the children on the palisade in the form of a cross\". After seeing a Congolese person killed for the first time, a Danish missionary wrote, \"The soldier said 'Don't take this to heart so much. They kill us if we don't bring the rubber. The Commissioner has promised us if we have plenty of hands he will shorten our service. In Forbath's words:\n\nThe baskets of severed hands, set down at the feet of the European post commanders, became the symbol of the Congo Free State. ... The collection of hands became an end in itself. \"Force Publique\" soldiers brought them to the stations in place of rubber; they even went out to harvest them instead of rubber ... They became a sort of currency. They came to be used to make up for shortfalls in rubber quotas, to replace ... the people who were demanded for the forced labour gangs; and the \"Force Publique\" soldiers were paid their bonuses on the basis of how many hands they collected.\n\nIn theory, each right hand proved a killing. In practice, to save ammunition soldiers sometimes \"cheated\" by simply cutting off the hand and leaving the victim to live or die. More than a few survivors later said that they had lived through a massacre by acting dead, not moving even when their hands were severed, and waiting till the soldiers left before seeking help. In some instances a soldier could shorten his service term by bringing more hands than the other soldiers, which led to widespread mutilations and dismemberment.\n\nA reduction of the population of the Congo is noted by all who have compared the country at the beginning of Leopold's control with the beginning of Belgian state rule in 1908, but estimates of the death toll vary considerably. Estimates of some contemporary observers suggest that the population decreased by half during this period. According to Edmund D. Morel, the Congo Free State counted \"20 million souls\". Hence, Mark Twain mentioned the number of ten million deaths. According to British diplomat Roger Casement, this depopulation had four main causes: \"indiscriminate war\", starvation, reduction of births, and disease. Sleeping sickness was also a major cause of fatality at the time. Opponents of Leopold's rule stated, however, that the administration itself was to be considered responsible for the spreading of the epidemic.\n\nIn the absence of a census providing even an initial idea of the size of population of the region at the inception of the Congo Free State (the first was taken in 1924), it is impossible to quantify population changes in the period. Despite this, Forbath more recently claimed the loss was at least five million. Adam Hochschild and Jan Vansina use the number 10 million. Hochschild cites several recent independent lines of investigation, by anthropologist Jan Vansina and others, that examine local sources (police records, religious records, oral traditions, genealogies, personal diaries), which generally agree with the assessment of the 1919 Belgian government commission: roughly half the population perished during the Free State period. Since the first official census by the Belgian authorities in 1924 put the population at about 10 million, these various approaches suggest a rough estimate of a total of 10 million dead. Jan Vansina returned to the issue of quantifying the total population decline, and revised his earlier position, he concluded that the Kuba population (one of the many Congolese populations) was rising during the first two decades of Leopold II's rule, and declined with 25 percent from 1900 to 1919, mainly due to sickness. Others argued a decrease of 20 percent over the first forty years of colonial rule (up to the census of 1924). According to the Congolese historian Isidore Ndaywel è Nziem 13 million died. To put these population changes in context, sourced references state that in 1900 Africa as a whole had between 90 million and 133 million people. However, no verifiable records exist. Louis and Stengers state that population figures at the start of Leopold's control are only \"wild guesses\", while calling E. D. Morel's attempt and others at coming to a figure for population losses \"but figments of the imagination\". However, authors that point out the lack of reliable demographic data are questioned by others calling the former minimalists and agnosticists, proving that these questions remain the object of heated debate.\n\nLeopold ran up high debts with his Congo investments before the beginning of the worldwide rubber boom in the 1890s. Prices increased throughout the decade as industries discovered new uses for rubber in tires, hoses, tubing, insulation for telegraph and telephone cables and wiring. By the late-1890s, wild rubber had far surpassed ivory as the main source of revenue from the Congo Free State. The peak year was 1903, with rubber fetching the highest price and concessionary companies raking in the highest profits.\n\nHowever, the boom sparked efforts to find lower-cost producers. Congolese concessionary companies started facing competition from rubber cultivation in Southeast Asia and Latin America. As plantations were begun in other tropical areas—mostly under the ownership of the rival British firms—world rubber prices started to dip. Competition heightened the drive to exploit forced labour in the Congo in order to lower production costs. Meanwhile, the cost of enforcement was eating away at profit margins, along with the toll taken by the increasingly unsustainable harvesting methods. As competition from other areas of rubber cultivation mounted, Leopold's private rule was left increasingly vulnerable to international scrutiny.\n\nMissionaries were allowed only on sufferance, and Leopold was able to silence the Belgian Catholics. Rumours circulated so Leopold attempted to discredit them, even creating a Commission for the Protection of the Natives. Publishers were bribed, critics accused of running secret campaigns to further other nations' colonial ambitions, and eyewitness reports from missionaries such as William Henry Sheppard dismissed as attempts by Protestants to smear Catholic priests. For at least a decade, criticism was largely contained.\n\nJoseph Conrad’s novel \"Heart of Darkness\", originally published in 1899 as a three-part series in \"Blackwood's Magazine\", inspired by his service as a captain on a steamer on the Congo 12 years before, sparked an organized international opposition to Leopold's exploitational activities. In 1900, Edmund Dene Morel, a part-time journalist and head of trade with Congo for the Liverpool shipping firm Elder Dempster, noticed that ships that brought vast loads of rubber from the Congo only ever returned there loaded with guns and ammunition for the \"Force Publique\". Morel became a journalist and then a publisher, attempting to discredit Leopold's regime. In 1902, Morel retired from his position at Elder Dempster to focus on campaigning. He founded his own magazine, \"The West African Mail\", and conducted speaking tours in Britain.\n\nIncreasing public outcry over the atrocities in the CFS moved the British government to launch an official investigation. In 1903, Morel and those who agreed with him in the House of Commons succeeded in passing a resolution calling on the British government to conduct an inquiry into alleged violations of the Berlin Agreement. Roger Casement, then the British Consul at Boma (at the mouth of the Congo River), was sent to the Congo Free State to investigate. Reporting back to the Foreign Office in 1900, Casement wrote:\n\nThe root of the evil lies in the fact that the government of the Congo is above all a commercial trust, that everything else is orientated towards commercial gain...\n\nE. D. Morel was introduced to Roger Casement by their mutual friend Herbert Ward just before the publication of Casement's 1904 detailed eyewitness report—known as the Casement Report—in 1904 and realized that he had found the ally he had sought. Casement convinced Morel to establish an organisation for dealing specifically with the Congo question, the Congo Reform Association. With Casement's and Dr. Guinness's assistance, he set up and ran the Congo Reform Association, which worked to end Leopold's control of the Congo Free State. Branches of the association were established as far away as the United States. The Congo Reform movement's members included Sir Arthur Conan Doyle, Mark Twain, Joseph Conrad, Booker T. Washington, and Bertrand Russell.\n\nThe mass deaths in the Congo Free State became a \"cause célèbre\" in the last years of the 19th century. The Congo reform movement led a vigorous international movement against the maltreatment of the Congolese population. The British Parliament demanded a meeting of the 14 signatory powers to review the 1885 Berlin Agreement. The Belgian Parliament, pushed by Emile Vandervelde and other critics of the king's Congolese policy, forced Leopold to set up an independent commission of inquiry, and despite the king's efforts, in 1905 it confirmed Casement's report.\n\nOne of the main ways England was involved in ending Leopold II of Belgium’s rule in the Congo, was by making Belgium, as a whole, more aware of the brutality present in the Congo. E. D. Morel was one of the key activists of England for a Congo free from Belgium rule. Once the U.S became aware of the occurences in the Congo, Morel began the Congo Reform Association. One of the methods Morel used to make the world more aware of the atrocities in the Congo during Leopold’s rule was through the press. Articles were published in both magazines and articles in order to make the people of these powerful countries, such as the U.S and England, more aware of what truly was being done in this part of Africa. With this newfound unwanted publicity, the Belgium government was pressured in assuming control of the Congo from Leopold.\n\nIndividuals such as George Washington Williams also had a significant impact in the events that surrounded the Congo Free State propaganda war. In his famous letter, \"An Open Letter to His Serene Majesty Léopold II, King of the Belgians and Sovereign of the Independent State of Congo”,  that was sent on July 18, 1890, Williams essentially exposed the true atrocities committed by Leopold II of Belgium. It was after this, that his letter became published throughout mass media outlets around the world and enlightened many individuals about the true side of Leopold. In his letter, Williams went into greater depth about the crimes that were pinned against the residents of the Congo and their overall mistreatment. It would be this letter, that would initiate the widespread call for justice against the horrors of the Congo, caused by Leopold II of Belgium.\n\nLeopold II offered to reform his Congo Free State regime, but international opinion supported an end to the king's rule, and no nation was willing to accept this responsibility. Belgium was the obvious European candidate to annex the Congo Free State. For two years, it debated the question and held new elections on the issue.\n\nYielding to international pressure, the parliament of Belgium annexed the Congo Free State and took over its administration on November 15, 1908, as the colony of the Belgian Congo. The governance of the Belgian Congo was outlined in the 1908 Colonial Charter. Despite being effectively removed from power, the international scrutiny was no major loss to Leopold II—who died in Brussels on 17 December 1909—or the concessionary companies in the Congo. By then Southeast Asia and Latin America had become lower-cost producers of rubber. Along with the effects of resource depletion in the Congo, international commodity prices had fallen to a level that rendered Congolese extraction unprofitable. Just prior to releasing sovereignty over the CFS, Leopold had all evidence of his activities in the CFS destroyed, including the archives of the departments of finance and of the interior. Leopold II lost the absolute power he had had there, but the population now had a Belgian colonial regime, which had become heavily paternalistic, with church, state, and private companies all instructed to oversee the welfare of the inhabitants.\n\nThe Order of the Crown, originally created in 1897, rewarded heroic deeds and service achieved while serving in the Congo Free State. The Order was made a decoration of the Belgian state with the abolition of the Congo Free State in 1908 and is still awarded today.\n\nBetween 1886 and 1908 Free State issued a number of postage stamps. These typically showed scenes of wildlife, landscapes, and natives.\n\nCoins were minted from 1887 to 1908, using the Belgian standard. They ranged from a copper 1 Centime through a silver 5 Francs. The lower values showed a star on the obverse and were holed, the higher ones had a bust of Leopold II.\n\nIn the aftermath of the 1998 publication of \"King Leopold's Ghost\" by Adam Hochschild, where he had written \"the killing in the Congo was of genocidal proportions\", but \"it was not strictly speaking a genocide\", \"The Guardian\" reported that the Royal Museum for Central Africa in Brussels would finance an investigation into some of the claims made by Hochschild. An investigatory panel announced in 2002, likely to be headed by Professor Jean-Luc Vellut, was scheduled to report its findings in 2004. Robert G. Weisbord stated in the 2003 \"Journal of Genocide Research\" that attempting to eliminate a portion of the population is enough to qualify as genocide under the UN convention. In the case of the Congo Free State, the unbearable conditions would qualify as a genocide.\n\nIn the aftermath of the report, an exhibition was held at the Royal Museum for Central Africa entitled \"The Memory of Congo\". Critics, including Hochschild, claimed that there were \"distortions and evasions\" in the exhibition and stated \"The exhibit deals with this question in a wall panel misleadingly headed 'Genocide in the Congo?' This is a red herring, for no reputable historian of the Congo has made charges of genocide; a forced labor system, although it may be equally deadly, is different.\" An early day motion presented to the British Parliament in 2006 described \"the tragedy of King Leopold's regime\" as genocide and called for an apology from the Belgian government. It received the signature of 48 members of parliament.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35592689", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35592689", "title": "Corruption in North Korea", "text": "Corruption in North Korea\n\nCorruption in North Korea is a widespread and growing problem in North Korean society. North Korea is ranked 175 out of 177 countries in Transparency International's 2013 Corruption Perceptions Index (tied with Somalia and Afghanistan). Strict rules and draconian punishments imposed by the regime, for example, against accessing foreign media or for modifying radio or television receivers to access foreign media, are commonly evaded by offering bribes to the police. Informing on colleagues and family members has become less common.\n\nNorth Korea’s state media admitted widespread corruption in North Korea, when laying out the accusations against Jang Sung-taek after his execution in December 2013. The statement mentions bribery, deviation of materials, selling resources and land, securing funds and squandering money for private use by organizations under his control.\n\n"}
{"id": "37804448", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37804448", "title": "Dissent in Romania under Nicolae Ceaușescu", "text": "Dissent in Romania under Nicolae Ceaușescu\n\nDissent in Romania under Nicolae Ceaușescu was voicing disagreements with the government policies of Communist Romania during the totalitarian rule of Nicolae Ceaușescu after the July Theses in 1971. Because of the strong secret police (the Securitate) and harsh punishments, open dissent was rare. Notable acts of dissent include Paul Goma's 1977 letters to Ceaușescu, the founding of SLOMR (an independent workers' union) in 1979 and a number of work conflicts, such as the Jiu Valley miners' strike of 1977 and the Braşov Rebellion of 1987.\n\nDissent from within the Romanian Communist Party came for the first time from Constantin Pîrvulescu, a veteran party member who, in 1979, during the 12th Party Congress, accused Ceaușescu of putting personal interests in front of those of the party. Pîrvulescu was excluded from the party, but, in 1989, together with other five party veterans signed the Letter of the Six, an open letter written by Silviu Brucan which was a left-wing critique of Ceaușescu.\n\nThe Romanian Revolution of 1989 began as an act of dissent, as people began supporting Hungarian pastor László Tőkés, who was about to be evicted for dissent.\n\nStarting with the mid-1960s, a counterculture developed in Romania among the Romanian youth and students. While this culture shared the aesthetics of the Western Counterculture of the 1960s (for instance hippie fashion or rock and roll) and its anti-authoritarianism, from an ideological point of view, it wasn't integrated in the worldwide countercultural movement. The counterculture used nationalist rhetoric and unlike its Western or Yugoslav counterpart, where it embraced the \"New Left\" and opposed the Vietnam War, in Romania, it was skeptical of socialism, even if liberal socialism. Although they were aware of the movements in the west, they never shared their goals or had any interest in declaring solidarity with them.\n\nA dissident community flourished as Romania became more liberal and allowed more freedom of expression. Nonconformist literature, film, theatre, music, philosophy boomed as young intellectuals challenged the abuses of the early era of Socialist Romania and demanded more freedom of thought and expression, as well as a better standard of living. The counterculture did support some goals with the government, such as reform and the independence from the Soviet Union.\n\nThe end of the culture of protest within the counterculture came in December 1968 when a group of a few hundred student protesters were beaten by the police and their leaders were arrested. Ceaușescu warned against any art and political positions that were against the regime in 1969, while the following year, he explicitly banned such countercultural activities and in 1971, with the July Theses, a \"mini-Cultural Revolution\" began that demanded strict conformity.\n\nThe Romanian Communist Party took over the film, theatre and literary communities and demanded them to adhere to socialist realism. While this did not end the counterculture, it greatly diminished its scale. Critics of the regime were routinely harassed by the police, expelled from the party or fired their workplace and they often fled abroad. Some artists and intellectuals, such as Cornel Chiriac, fled to Western Europe, while others, such as Adrian Păunescu (who was attacked in 1972 for his subversive activities and complaints about censorship) joined the regime's propaganda machine.\n\nPaul Goma, a Bessarabian-born writer, provided the earliest challenge to the Ceaușescu regime in the spring of 1977. Goma had challenged the previous communist governments of Romania: in 1956, he read at university a chapter of a novel describing a student movements similar to the one of Hungarian Revolution of 1956. In 1968, the manuscript for his novel, \"Obstinato\", was denied publication and so was his next novel, \"Gherla\", both of which were published in French and German translations.\n\nBecoming frustrated with the ban of his writings and inspired by the Czechoslovak Charter 77, Goma wrote a letter of support to Pavel Kohout. Finding few friends willing to sign it, he invited Nicolae Ceaușescu to sign it. In a letter addressed to Ceaușescu, he told him that he can't find people to sign the letter because they are afraid of the Securitate and that the only two Romanians not afraid of the Securitatea are him and Ceaușescu.\n\nDespite the intimidations of the Securitate, Goma's letter got over 200 signatures (including the support of psychiatrist Ion Vianu and literary critic Ion Negoiţescu), but it was denounced by Ceaușescu, who attacked \"the traitors of the country\". As he wrote an even harsher letter to Ceaușescu, Goma was excluded from the Writers' Union, arrested and attacked in a variety of magazines such as \"Săptămâna\", \"Luceafărul\" and \"Contemporanul\". After an international appeal, he was released and in November 1977 he went into exile in France.\n\nGoma continued to criticize the Ceaușescu regime from Paris and in 1982, the Romanian authorities ordered a Romanian secret agent, Matei Pavel Haiducu, to kill Goma, together with another dissident, Virgil Tănase by injecting a poison which would cause cardiac arrest. Nevertheless, Haiducu refused the order by defecting to the French authorities.\n\nOnly a few months after Goma's lettes, the first major strike occurred on a Romanian company. The immediate cause of the strike was the new July 1977 legislation which ended disability pensions for miners and increased the retirement age for miners from 50 to 53. Ceaușescu made a commission led by Ilie Verdeț to go to Lupeni and discuss with the miners, but they were apprehended by the miners, who demanded Ceaușescu to come.\n\nCeaușescu came to Lupeni on the same day and in front of the angry crowd, he agreed to have a six-hour day throughout the Jiu Valley, to build factories that would provide employment for the miners' wives and daughters and to that no punishment would be given against the miners who organized the strike. After this, the crowds dispersed and the miners continued working.\n\nThe promises were not kept, as in the following months, the Securitate began its investigations and repression, with 4000 miners being sent to other mining areas and others imprisoned. Neither were the concessions regarding the six-hour day and the retirement age were kept, the only promise kept was about the creation of jobs for the miners' families. Throughout the Jiu Valley strikes, there was a total media blackout about the event.\n\nA group of 15 workers at the shipyards of Turnu Severin, helped by an MD, Ionel Cană, founded a free trade union, the founding declaration of which was broadcast on the Radio Free Europe on March 4, 1979. It soon attracted over 2400 signatures from workers throughout the country. They got the support of Paul Goma and Gheorghe Calciu, a dissident orthodox priest.\n\nIts manifesto called for the legalization of independent trade unions and the right to free association. As some of its members, including Cană and economist Gheorghe Broșoveanu were arrested, the union protested against the repression through an open letter. The next chairman of the trade union was sentenced to 18 months in prison for \"passing state secrets to Amnesty International\".\n\nCeaușescu introduced a series of very harsh austerity measures in order to cut the imports and repay the debts acquired from the Western banks. Food and energy were rationized and the real value of the wage was cut.\n\nIn September 1983, miners from seven metal mines of Maramureș went on strike to protest pay cuts, the strike being quelled by the Securitate. Further strikes were started at the Heavy Machinery Plant and the Refrigeration Plant in Cluj-Napoca, as well as at the glass factory in Turda in November 1984 following the reduction of the bread ration and pay cuts for failure to fill the targets. Like in Jiu Valley, the Party promised to meet the demands of the workers and Securitate launched an investigation and moving some workers to other areas. On February 16, 1987, about a thousand employees of the Nicolina rolling stocks factory in Iași protested pay cuts; 150 of the strikers were fired from the factory.\n\nOn November 15, 1987, a group of several thousand workers from Steagul Roșu plant assembled in order to go and vote in the local elections. Instead they marched toward the city centre (where the local headquarters of the Party was located), singing \"Deșteaptă-te, române!\", the song of the 1848 Revolution and chanting \"Down with the dictatorship!\". They were joined by Braşov tractor plant workers and Brașov locals.\n\nIt was five days after the implementation of a decree on reducing the heating on private dwellings (part of the 1980s austerity policy in Romania) and after a second month with wage cuts due to failure to meet production targets (which couldn't be done due to lack of commercial orders), corroborated with food shortages.\n\nThe apparatchiks fled from the Party headquarters through the back entrance while the crowd tore down the headquarters' sign, smashed the windows, forced their way inside by breaking the wooden gates and destroyed the content, throwing posters, files, equipment onto the street. These were set alight and a similar ransacking occurred on the People's Council building on the opposite side of the road.\n\nSoon, police and military vehicles carrying armed soldiers came, as the people in the crowd tried to flee. Some were beaten up and arrested, while others were arrested from their home in the middle of the night. The following days, all the outstanding debts to the workers had been paid and food shops had been stocked.\n\nThe state media kept silence about the protests for weeks and it only acknowledged the disturbances on December 2, when Radio Bucharest announced that the workers' representatives decided to dismiss the management which had illegally reduced the wages of the workers. It also noted that the workers \"who engaged in acts that are alien to our society\" will be moved or be punished according to the law.\n\nThe Securitate investigated the protests and, by December, it compiled a list of 425 workers who were held. The group trial led to 60 protesters to be jailed for \"hooliganism\", being sentenced for jail terms of between one and four years.\n\nThe earliest case of dissent from within the Party occurred during the 12th Party Congress, when Constantin Pîrvulescu, an old-time party member, took the floor and argued against the re-election of Ceaușescu, arguing that he puts the personal glorification in front of the interest of the Party and the country. As a result, he was stripped of his delegate to the congress and placed under house arrest.\n\nFollowing the Braşov Rebellion, on November 26, 1987, former deputy director of Scînteia Silviu Brucan handed a declaration to some foreign journalists, in which he warned Ceaușescu that \"a period of crisis has opened up in relations between the Romanian Communist Party and the working class\" and he warned that this may lead to an isolation from both the West and the East. Brucan was reprimanded by the Party and put under house arrest, but he was released following a visit of the American United States Deputy Secretary of State John C. Whitehead to Bucharest.\n\nDumitru Mazilu, a Romanian official was commissioned by the UN Sub-Commission on Prevention of Discrimination and Protection of Minorities in 1985 to write a report on human rights in Romania. He was due to present it in Geneva in June 1987, but he was prevented by the Romanian state. The official explanation was that he had a heart attack, but Mazilu eventually sent in 1988 a letter to the Chairman of the UN subcommission in which he talked about repressive measures taken against him after he refused to give up working on this project, including surveillance and intimidation.\n\nOn March 10, 1989, six senior members (Silviu Brucan, Gheorghe Apostol, Alexandru Bârlădeanu, Grigore Răceanu, Corneliu Mănescu and Constantin Pîrvulescu) of the Romanian Communist Party signed a letter (the \"Letter of the Six\") written by Brucan and made public to BBC. Since they sent the letter directly abroad rather than discussing it in the Party, it shows that the Party was completely under the rule of Ceaușescu and that no party mechanism allowed discussion of party policy.\n\nUnlike Doina Cornea, they did not argue for a democratic pluralism, but only a pluralism within the party. They argued that the \"very idea of socialism\" was being threatened by Ceaușescu's policies. The letter discussed the Systematization, the lack of observance of human rights and that in practice, the constitution was suspended and that there was no legal system in force.\n\n"}
{"id": "9926", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9926", "title": "ETA (separatist group)", "text": "ETA (separatist group)\n\nETA (; ), an acronym for Euskadi Ta Askatasuna (; \"Basque Homeland and Liberty\"), was an armed leftist Basque nationalist and separatist organization in the Basque Country (in northern Spain and southwestern France). The group was founded in 1959 and later evolved from a group promoting traditional Basque culture to a paramilitary group engaged in a violent campaign of bombing, assassinations and kidnappings in the Southern Basque Country and throughout Spanish territory. Its goal was gaining independence for the Basque Country. ETA was the main group within the Basque National Liberation Movement and was the most important Basque participant in the Basque conflict.\n\nBetween 1968 and 2010, it killed 829 people (including 340 civilians) and injured thousands more. ETA is classified as a terrorist group by Spain, France, the United Kingdom, the United States, Canada and the European Union. This convention was followed by a plurality of domestic and international media, which also referred to the group as \"terrorists\". There are more than 300 imprisoned members of the group in Spain, France, and other countries.\n\nETA declared ceasefires in 1989, 1996, 1998 and 2006. On 5 September 2010, ETA declared a new ceasefire that remained in force, and on 20 October 2011, ETA announced a \"definitive cessation of its armed activity\". On 24 November 2012, it was reported that the group was ready to negotiate a \"definitive end\" to its operations and disband completely. The group announced on 7 April 2017 that it had given up all its weapons and explosives. On 2 May 2018, ETA made public a letter dated to 16 April 2018 according to which it had \"completely dissolved all its structures and ended its political initiative\".\n\nETA's motto was (\"Keep up on both\"), referring to the two figures in its symbol, a snake (representing politics) wrapped around an axe (representing armed struggle).\n\nETA changed its internal structure on several occasions, commonly for security reasons. The group used to have a very hierarchical organization with a leading figure at the top, delegating into three substructures: the logistical, military and political sections. Reports from Spanish and French police pointed towards significant changes in ETA's structures in its later years. ETA divided the three substructures into a total of eleven. The change was a response to captures, and possible infiltration, by the different law enforcement agencies. ETA's intention was to disperse its members and reduce the impact of detentions.\n\nThe leading committee comprised 7 to 11 individuals, and ETA's internal documentation referred to it as Zuba, an abbreviation of \"Zuzendaritza Batzordea\" (directorial committee). There was another committee named \"Zuba-hitu\" that functioned as an advisory committee. The eleven different substructures were: logistics, politics, international relations with fraternal organisations, military operations, reserves, prisoner support, expropriation, information, recruitment, negotiation, and treasury.\n\nETA's armed operations were organized in different \"taldes\" (\"groups\") or \"commandos\", generally composed of three to five members, whose objective was to conduct attacks in a specific geographic zone. The \"taldes\" were coordinated by the \"cúpula militar\" (\"military cupola\"). To supply the \"taldes\", support groups maintained safe houses and \"zulos\" (small rooms concealed in forests, garrets or underground, used to store arms, explosives or, sometimes, kidnapped people; the Basque word \"zulo\" literally means \"hole\"). The small cellars used to hide the people kidnapped are named by ETA and ETA's supporters \"people's jails\". The most common \"commandos\" were itinerant, not linked to any specific area, and thus were more difficult to capture.\n\nAmong its members, ETA distinguished between \"legales/legalak\" (\"legal ones\"), those members who did not have police records and lived apparently normal lives; \"liberados\" (\"liberated\") members known to the police that were on ETA's payroll and working full-time for ETA; and \"apoyos\" (\"support\") who just gave occasional help and logistics support to the group when required.\n\nThere were also imprisoned members of the group, serving time scattered across Spain and France, that sometimes still have significant influence inside the organisation; and finally the \"quemados\" (\"burnt out\"), members freed after having been imprisoned or those that were suspected by the group of being under police vigilance. In the past there was also the figure of the deportees, expelled by the French government to remote countries where they lived freely. ETA's internal bulletin was named \"Zutabe\" (\"Column\"), replacing the earlier one (1962) \"Zutik\" (\"Standing\").\n\nETA also promoted the \"kale borroka\" (\"street fight\"), that is, violent acts against public transportation, political parties offices or cultural buildings, destruction of private property of politicians, police, military, journalist, council members, and anyone voicing criticism against ETA, bank offices, menaces, graffiti of political mottoes, and general rioting, usually using Molotov cocktails. These groups were mostly made up of young people, who were directed through youth organisations (such as Jarrai, Haika and Segi). Many members of ETA started their collaboration with the group as participants in the \"kale borroka\".\n\nThe former political party Batasuna, disbanded in 2003, pursued the same political goals as ETA and did not condemn ETA's use of violence. Formerly known as Euskal Herritarrok and \"Herri Batasuna\", it was banned by the Spanish Supreme Court as an anti-democratic organisation following the Political Parties Law (\"Ley de Partidos Políticos\"), It generally received 10% to 20% of the vote in the Basque Autonomous Community.\n\nBatasuna's political status was controversial. It was considered to be the political wing of ETA. Moreover, after the investigations on the nature of the relationship between Batasuna and ETA by Judge Baltasar Garzón, who suspended the activities of the political organisation and ordered police to shut down its headquarters, the Supreme Court of Spain finally declared Batasuna illegal on 18 March 2003. The court considered proven that Batasuna had links with ETA and that it constituted in fact part of ETA's structure. In 2003, the Constitutional Tribunal upheld the legality of the law.\n\nHowever, the party itself denied being the political wing of ETA, although double membership – simultaneous or alternative – between Batasuna and ETA was often recorded, such as with the cases of prominent Batasuna leaders like Josu Ternera, Arnaldo Otegi, Jon Salaberria and others.\n\nThe Spanish Cortes (the Spanish Parliament) began the process of declaring the party illegal in August 2002 by issuing a bill entitled the \"Ley de Partidos Políticos\" which bars political parties that use violence to achieve political goals, promote hatred against different groups or seek to destroy the democratic system. The bill passed the Cortes with a 304 to 16 vote. Many within the Basque nationalistic movement strongly disputed the Law, which they considered too draconian or even unconstitutional; alleging that any party could be made illegal almost by choice, simply for not clearly stating their opposition to an attack.\n\nDefenders of the law argued that the \"Ley de Partidos\" did not necessarily require responses to individual acts of violence, but rather a declaration of principles explicitly rejecting violence as a means of achieving political goals. Defenders also argued that the ban of a political party is subject to judicial process, with all the guarantees of the State of Law. Batasuna had failed to produce such a statement. other political parties linked to organizations such as \"Partido Comunista de España (reconstituido)\" have also been declared illegal, and Acción Nacionalista Vasca and Communist Party of the Basque Lands (EHAK/PCTV, \"Euskal Herrialdeetako Alderdi Komunista/Partido Comunista de las Tierras Vascas\") were declared illegal in September 2008.\n\nA new party called Aukera Guztiak \"(All the Options)\" was formed expressly for the elections to the Basque Parliament of April 2005. Its supporters claimed no heritage from Batasuna, asserting that their aim was to allow Basque citizens to freely express their political ideas, even those of independence. On the matter of political violence, Aukera Guztiak stated their right not to condemn some kinds of violence more than others if they did not see fit (in this regard, the Basque National Liberation Movement (MLNV) regards present police actions as violence, torture and state terrorism). Nevertheless, most of their members and certainly most of their leadership were former Batasuna supporters or affiliates. The Spanish Supreme Court unanimously considered the party to be a successor to Batasuna and declared a ban on it.\n\nAfter Aukera Guztiak had been banned, and less than two weeks before the election, another political group appeared born from an earlier schism from Herri Batasuna, the Communist Party of the Basque Lands (EHAK/PCTV, \"Euskal Herrialdeetako Alderdi Komunista/Partido Comunista de las Tierras Vascas\"), a formerly unknown political party which had no representation in the Autonomous Basque Parliament. EHAK made the announcement that they would apply the votes they obtained to sustain the political programme of the now banned Aukera Guztiak platform.\n\nThis move left no time for the Spanish courts to investigate EHAK in compliance with the \"Ley de Partidos\" before the elections were held. The bulk of Batasuna supporters voted in this election for PCTV. It obtained 9 seats of 75 (12.44% of votes) in the Basque Parliament.\nThe election of EHAK representatives eventually allowed the programme of the now-illegal Batasuna to continue being represented without having condemned violence as required by the \"Ley de Partidos\".\n\nIn February 2011, Sortu, a party described as \"the new Batasuna\", was launched. Unlike predecessor parties, Sortu explicitly rejects politically motivated violence, including that of ETA. However, on 23 March 2011, the Spanish Supreme Court banned Sortu from registering as a political party on the grounds that it was linked to ETA.\n\nThe Spanish transition to democracy from 1975 on and ETA's progressive radicalisation have resulted in a steady loss of support, which became especially apparent at the time of their 1997 kidnapping and countdown assassination of Miguel Ángel Blanco. Their loss of sympathisers has been reflected in an erosion of support for the political parties identified with them. In the 1998 Basque parliament elections Euskal Herritarrok, formerly Batasuna, polled 17.7% of the votes. However, by 2001 the party's support had fallen to 10.0%. There were also concerns that Spain's \"judicial offensive\" against alleged ETA supporters (two Basque political parties and one NGO were banned in September 2008) constitute a threat to human rights. Strong evidence was seen that a legal network had grown so wide as to lead to the arrest of numerous innocent people. According to Amnesty International, torture was still \"persistent\", though not \"systematic.\" Inroads could be undermined by judicial short-cuts and abuses of human rights.\n\nThe Euskobarometro, the survey carried out by the Universidad del País Vasco (University of the Basque Country), asking about the views of ETA within the Basque population, obtained these results in May 2009: 64% rejected ETA totally, 13% identified themselves as former ETA sympathisers who no longer support the group. Another 10% agreed with ETA's ends, but not their means. 3% said that their attitude towards ETA was mainly one of fear, 3% expressed indifference and 3% were undecided or did not answer. About 3% gave ETA \"justified, with criticism\" support (supporting the group but criticising some of their actions) and only 1% gave ETA total support. Even within Batasuna voters, at least 48% rejected ETA's violence.\n\nA poll taken by the Basque Autonomous Government in December 2006 during ETA's \"permanent\" ceasefire showed that 88% of the Basques thought that it was necessary for all political parties to launch a dialogue, including a debate on the political framework for the Basque Country (86%). 69% support the idea of ratifying the results of this hypothetical multiparty dialogue through a referendum. This poll also reveals that the hope of a peaceful resolution to the issue of the constitutional status of the Basque region has fallen to 78% (from 90% in April).\n\nThese polls did not cover Navarre, where support for Basque nationalist electoral options is weaker (around 25% of population) or the Northern Basque Country where support is even weaker (around 15% of population).\n\nETA grew out of a student group called Ekin, founded in the early 1950s, which published a magazine and undertook direct action. ETA was founded on 31 July 1959 as Euskadi Ta Askatasuna (Basque Homeland and Freedom) by students frustrated by the moderate stance of the Basque Nationalist Party. (Originally, the name for the organisation used the word \"Aberri\" instead of \"Euskadi\", creating the acronym \"ATA\". However, in some Basque dialects, \"ata\" means \"duck\", so the name was changed.)\n\nETA held their first assembly in Bayonne, France, in 1962, during which a \"declaration of principles\" was formulated and following which a structure of activist cells was developed. Subsequently, Marxist and third-worldist perspectives developed within ETA, becoming the basis for a political programme set out in Federico Krutwig's 1963 book \"Vasconia\", which is considered to be the defining text of the movement. In contrast to previous Basque nationalist platforms, Krutwig's vision was anti-religious and based upon language and culture rather than race. ETA's third and fourth assemblies, held in 1964 and 1965, adopted an anti-capitalist and anti-imperialist position, seeing nationalism and the class struggle as intrinsically connected.\n\nSome sources attribute the 1960 bombing of the Amara station in Donostia-San Sebastian (which killed a 22-month-old child) to ETA, but statistics published by the Spanish Ministry of the Interior have always showed that ETA's first victim was killed in 1968. The 1960 attack was claimed by the Portuguese and Spanish left-wing group DRIL (together with four other very similar bombings committed that same day across Spain, all of them attributed to DRIL), and the attribution to ETA has been considered to be unfounded by the researchers. Police documents dating from 1961, released in 2013, show that the DRIL was indeed the author of the bombing.\n\nETA's first killing occurred on 7 June 1968, when Guardia Civil member José Pardines Arcay was shot dead after he tried to halt ETA member Txabi Etxebarrieta during a routine road check. Etxebarrieta was chased down and killed as he tried to flee. This led to retaliation in the form of the first planned ETA assassination: that of Melitón Manzanas, chief of the secret police in San Sebastián and associated with a long record of tortures inflicted on detainees in his custody. In December 1970, several members of ETA were condemned to death in the \"Proceso de Burgos\" (\"Burgos Trial\"), but international pressure resulted in their sentences being commuted (a process which, however, had by that time already been applied to some other members of ETA).\n\nIn early December 1970, ETA kidnapped the German consul in San Sebastian, Eugen Beilh, in order to exchange him for the Burgos defendants. He was released unharmed on 24 December.\n\nNationalists who refused to follow the tenets of Marxism–Leninism and who sought to create a united front appeared as ETA-V, but lacked the support to challenge ETA.\n\nThe most significant assassination performed by ETA during Franco's dictatorship was Operación Ogro, the December 1973 bomb assassination in Madrid of Admiral Luis Carrero Blanco, Franco's chosen successor and president of the government (a position roughly equivalent to being a prime minister). The assassination had been planned for months and was executed by placing a bomb in a tunnel dug below the street where Carrero Blanco's car passed every day. The bomb blew up beneath the politician's car and threw it five stories into the air and over the top of a nearby building onto a balcony in a nearby courtyard.\n\nFor some in the Spanish opposition, Carrero Blanco's assassination,i.e., the elimination of Franco's chosen successor was an instrumental step for the subsequent re-establishment of democracy. The government responded with new anti-terrorist laws which gave police greater powers and empowered military tribunals to pass death sentences against those found guilty. However, the last use of capital punishment in Spain when two ETA members were executed in September 1975, eight weeks before Franco's death, sparked massive domestic and international protests against the Spanish government.\n\nDuring the Spanish transition to democracy which began following Franco's death, ETA split into two separate groups: ETA political-military or ETA(pm), and ETA military or ETA(m).\n\nBoth ETA(m) and ETA(pm) refused offers of amnesty, and instead pursued and intensified their violent struggle. The years 1978–80 were to prove ETA's most deadly, with 68, 76, and 98 fatalities, respectively.\n\nDuring the Franco dictatorship, ETA was able to take advantage of tolerance by the French government, which allowed its members to move freely through French territory, believing that in this manner they were contributing to the end of Franco's regime. There is much controversy over the degree to which this policy of \"sanctuary\" continued even after the transition to democracy, but it is generally agreed that currently the French authorities collaborate closely with the Spanish government against ETA.\n\nIn the 1980s, ETA(pm) accepted the Spanish government's offer of individual pardons to all ETA prisoners, even those who had committed violent crimes, who publicly abandoned the policy of violence. This caused a new division in ETA(pm) between the seventh and eighth assemblies. ETA VII accepted this partial amnesty granted by the now democratic Spanish government and integrated into the political party \"Euskadiko Ezkerra\" (\"Left of the Basque Country\").\n\nETA VIII, after a brief period of independent activity, eventually integrated into ETA(m). With no factions existing anymore, ETA(m) revamped the original name of Euskadi Ta Askatasuna.\n\nDuring the 1980s a \"dirty war\" ensued by means of the Grupos Antiterroristas de Liberación (GAL, \"Antiterrorist Liberation Groups\"), a paramilitary group which billed themselves as counter-terrorist, active between 1983 and 1987. The GAL committed assassinations, kidnappings and torture, not only of ETA members but of civilians supposedly related to those, some of whom turned out to have nothing to do with ETA. 27 people were killed by GAL. GAL activities were a follow-up of similar dirty war actions by death squads, actively supported by members of Spanish security forces and secret services, using names such as Batallón Vasco Español active from 1975 to 1981. They were responsible for the killing of about 48 people.\n\nOne consequence of GAL's activities in France was the decision in 1984 by interior minister Pierre Joxe to permit the extradition of ETA suspects to Spain. Reaching this decision had taken 25 years and was critical in curbing ETA's capabilities by denial of previously safe territory in France.\n\nThe airing of the state-sponsored \"dirty war\" scheme and the imprisonment of officials responsible for GAL in the early 1990s led to a political scandal in Spain. The group's connections with the state were unveiled by the Spanish journal El Mundo, with an investigative series leading to the GAL plot being discovered and a national trial initiated. As a consequence, the group's attacks since the revelation have generally been dubbed state terrorism.\n\nIn 1997 the Spanish Audiencia Nacional court finished its trial, which resulted in convictions and imprisonment of several individuals related to the GAL, including civil servants up to the highest levels of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party (PSOE) government, such as former Homeland Minister José Barrionuevo. Premier Felipe González was quoted as saying that the constitutional state has to defend itself \"also in the sewers\" (\"El Estado de derecho también se defiende en las cloacas\") something which, for some, indicated at least his knowledge of the scheme. However, his involvement with the GAL could never be proven.\n\nThese events marked the end of the armed \"counter-terrorist\" period in Spain and no major cases of foul play on the part of the Spanish government after 1987 (when GAL ceased to operate) have been proven in courts.\n\nAccording to the radical nationalist group, Euskal Memoria, between 1960 and 2010 there were 465 deaths in the Basque Country due to (primarily Spanish) \"state violence\". This figure is considerably higher than those given elsewhere, which are usually between 250 and 300. Critics of ETA cite only 56 members of that organisation killed by state forces since 1975.\n\nETA members and supporters routinely claim torture at the hands of Spanish police forces. While these claims are hard to verify, some convictions are based on confessions while prisoners are held \"incomunicado\" and without access to a lawyer of their choice, for a maximum of five days. These confessions are routinely repudiated by the defendants during trials as having been extracted under torture. There have been some successful prosecutions of proven tortures during the \"dirty war\" period of the mid-1980s, although the penalties have been considered by Amnesty International as unjustifiably light and lenient with co-conspirators and enablers.\n\nIn this regard, Amnesty International has shown concern for the continuous disregard on the recommendations issued by the agency to prevent the alleged abuses to possibly take place. Also in this regard, ETA's manuals have been found instructing its members and supporters to claim routinely that they had been tortured while detained. Unai Romano's case has been very controversial. Pictures of him with a symmetrically swollen face of uncertain etiology were published after his incommunicado period leading to claims of police abuse and torture. Martxelo Otamendi, the ex-director of the Basque newspaper Euskaldunon Egunkaria, decided to bring charges in September 2008 against the Spanish Government in Strasbourg Court for \"not inspecting properly\" torture denounced cases.\n\nAs a result of ETA's violence, threats and killings of journalists, Reporters Without Borders has included Spain in all six editions of its annual watchlist on press freedom. Thus, this NGO has included ETA in its watchlist \"Predators of Press Freedom\".\n\nETA performed their first car bomb assassination in Madrid in September 1985, resulting in one death (American citizen Eugene Kent Brown, Johnson & Johnson employee) and sixteen injuries; the Plaza República Dominicana bombing in July 1986 killed 12 members of the Guardia Civil and injured 50; on 19 June 1987, the Hipercor bombing was an attack in a shopping center in Barcelona, killing twenty-one and injuring forty-five; in the last case, entire families were killed. The horror caused then was so striking that ETA felt compelled to issue a communiqué stating that they had given warning of the Hipercor bomb, but that the police had declined to evacuate the area. The police claim that the warning came only a few minutes before the bomb exploded.\n\nIn 1986 Gesto por la Paz (known in English as Association for Peace in the Basque Country) was founded; they began to convene silent demonstrations in communities throughout the Basque Country the day after any violent killing, whether by ETA or by GAL. These were the first systematic demonstrations in the Basque Country against political violence. Also in 1986, in Ordizia, ETA shot down María Dolores Katarain, known as \"Yoyes\", while she was walking with her infant son. Yoyes was a former member of ETA who had abandoned the armed struggle and rejoined civil society: they accused her of \"desertion\" because of her taking advantage of the Spanish reinsertion policy which granted amnesty to those prisoners who publicly refused political violence (see below).\n\nOn 12 January 1988, all Basque political parties except ETA-affiliated Herri Batasuna signed the Ajuria-Enea pact with the intent of ending ETA's violence. Weeks later on 28 January, ETA announced a 60-day \"ceasefire\", later prolonged several times. Negotiations known as the Mesa de Argel (\"Algiers Table\") took place between the ETA representative Eugenio Etxebeste (\"Antxon\"), and the then PSOE government of Spain but no successful conclusion was reached, and ETA eventually resumed the use of violence.\n\nDuring this period, the Spanish government had a policy referred to as \"reinsertion\", under which imprisoned ETA members whom the government believed had genuinely abandoned violence could be freed and allowed to rejoin society. Claiming a need to prevent ETA from coercively impeding this reinsertion, the PSOE government decided that imprisoned ETA members, who previously had all been imprisoned within the Basque Country, would instead be dispersed to prisons throughout Spain, some as far from their families as in the Salto del Negro prison in the Canary Islands. France has taken a similar approach.\n\nIn the event, the only clear effect of this policy was to incite social protest, especially from nationalists and families of the prisoners, claiming cruelty of separating family members from the insurgents. Much of the protest against this policy runs under the slogan \"Euskal Presoak – Euskal Herrira\" (\"Basque prisoners to the Basque Country\", by \"Basque prisoners\" only ETA members are meant). It has to be noted that almost in any Spanish jail there is a group of ETA prisoners, as the number of ETA prisoners makes it difficult to disperse them.\n\n\"Gestoras pro Amnistía/Amnistiaren Aldeko Batzordeak\" (\"Pro-Amnesty Managing Assemblies\", currently illegal), later \"Askatasuna\" (\"Freedom\") and \"Senideak\" (\"The family members\") provided support for prisoners and families. The Basque Government and several Nationalist town halls granted money on humanitarian reasons for relatives to visit prisoners. The long road trips have caused accidental deaths that are protested against by Nationalist Prisoner's Family supporters.\n\nDuring the ETA ceasefire of the late 1990s, the PSOE government brought back to the mainland the prisoners on the islands and in Africa. Since the end of the ceasefire, ETA prisoners have not been sent back to overseas prisons. Some Basque authorities have established grants for the expenses of visiting families.\n\nAnother Spanish \"counter-terrorist\" law puts suspected terrorist cases under the central tribunal \"Audiencia Nacional\" in Madrid, due to the threats by the group over the Basque courts. Under Article 509 suspected terrorists are subject to being held \"incommunicado\" for up to thirteen days, during which they have no contact with the outside world other than through the court-appointed lawyer, including informing their family of their arrest, consultation with private lawyers or examination by a physician other than the coroners. In comparison, the habeas corpus term for other suspects is three days.\n\nIn 1992, ETA's three top leaders—\"military\" leader Francisco Mujika Garmendia (\"Pakito\"), political leader José Luis Alvarez Santacristina (\"Txelis\") and logistical leader José María Arregi Erostarbe (\"Fiti\"), often referred to collectively as the \"cúpula\" of ETA or as the Artapalo collective—were arrested in the northern Basque town of Bidart, which led to changes in ETA's leadership and direction.\n\nAfter a two-month truce, ETA adopted even more radical positions. The principal consequence of the change appears to have been the creation of the \"\"Y Groups\", formed by young militants of ETA parallel groups (generally minors), dedicated to so-called \"kale borroka\"\"—street struggle—and whose activities included burning buses, street lamps, benches, ATMs, garbage containers, and throwing Molotov cocktails. The appearance of these groups was attributed by many to the supposed weakness of ETA, which obliged them to resort to minors to maintain or augment their impact on society after arrests of leading militants, including the \"cupola\". ETA also began to menace leaders of other parties besides rival Basque nationalist parties.\n\nIn 1995, the armed group again launched a peace proposal. The so-called \"Democratic Alternative\" replaced the earlier KAS Alternative as a minimum proposal for the establishment of Euskal Herria. The Democratic Alternative offered the cessation of all armed ETA activity if the Spanish-government would recognize the Basque people as having sovereignty over Basque territory, the right to self-determination and that it freed all ETA members in prison. The Spanish government ultimately rejected this peace offer as it would go against the Spanish Constitution of 1978. Changing the constitution was not considered.\n\nAlso in 1995 came a failed ETA car bombing attempt directed against José María Aznar, a conservative politician who was leader of the then-opposition Partido Popular (PP) and was shortly after elected to the presidency of the government; there was also an abortive attempt in Majorca on the life of King Juan Carlos I. Still, the act with the largest social impact came the following year. 10 July 1997, PP council member Miguel Ángel Blanco was kidnapped in the Basque town of Ermua, with the separatist group threatening to assassinate him unless the Spanish government met ETA's demand of starting to bring all ETA's inmates to prisons of the Basque Country within two days after the kidnapping.\n\nThis demand was not met by the Spanish government and after three days Miguel Ángel Blanco was found shot dead when the deadline expired. More than six million people took out to the streets to demand his liberation, with massive demonstrations occurring as much in the Basque regions as elsewhere in Spain, chanting cries of \"Assassins\" and \"Basques yes, ETA no\". This response came to be known as the \"Spirit of Ermua\".\n\nLater came acts of violence such as the 6 November 2001 car bomb in Madrid which injured 65 people, and attacks on football stadiums and tourist destinations throughout Spain.\n\nThe 11 September 2001 attacks in the USA appeared to have dealt a hard blow to ETA, owing to the worldwide toughening of \"anti-terrorist\" measures (such as the freezing of bank accounts), the increase in international police coordination, and the end of the toleration some countries had, up until then, extended to ETA. In addition, in 2002 the Basque nationalist youth movement, \"Jarrai\", was outlawed and the law of parties was changed outlawing Herri Batasuna, the \"political arm\" of ETA (although even before the change in law, Batasuna had been largely paralysed and under judicial investigation by judge Baltasar Garzón).\n\nWith ever-increasing frequency, attempted ETA actions have been frustrated by Spanish security forces.\n\nOn 24 December 2003, in San Sebastián and in Hernani, National Police arrested two ETA members who had left dynamite in a railroad car prepared to explode in Chamartín Station in Madrid. On 1 March 2004, in a place between Alcalá de Henares and Madrid, a light truck with 536 kg of explosives was discovered by the Guardia Civil.\n\nETA was initially blamed for the 2004 Madrid bombings by the outgoing government and large sections of the press. However, the group denied responsibility and Islamic fundamentalists from Morocco were eventually convicted. The judicial investigation currently states that there is no relationship between ETA and the Madrid bombings.\n\nIn the context of negotiation with the Spanish government, ETA has declared what it has described as \"truce\" a number of times since its creation.\n\nOn 22 March 2006, ETA sent a DVD message to the Basque Network Euskal Irrati-Telebista and the journals \"Gara\" and Berria with a communiqué from the group announcing what it called a \"permanent ceasefire\" that was broadcast over Spanish TV.\n\nTalks with the group were then officially opened by Spanish \"Presidente del Gobierno\" José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero.\n\nThese took place all over 2006, not free from incidents such as an ETA cell stealing some 300 handguns, ammunition and spare parts in France in October 2006. or a series of warnings made by ETA such as the one of 23 September, when masked ETA militants declared that the group would \"keep taking up arms\" until achieving \"independence and socialism in the Basque country\", which were regarded by some as a way to increase pressure on the talks, by others as a tactic to reinforce ETA's position in the negotiations.\n\nFinally, on 30 December 2006 ETA detonated a van bomb after three confusing warning calls, in a parking building at the Madrid Barajas international airport. The explosion caused the collapse of the building and killed two Ecuadorian immigrants who were napping inside their cars in the parking building. At , José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero released a statement stating that the \"peace process\" had been discontinued.\n\nIn January 2008, ETA stated that its call for independence is similar to that of the Kosovo status and Scotland.\nIn the week of 8 September 2008, two Basque political parties were banned by a Spanish court for their secretive links to ETA. In another case in the same week, 21 people were convicted whose work on behalf of ETA prisoners actually belied secretive links to the armed separatists themselves. ETA reacted to these actions by placing three major car bombs in less than 24 hours in northern Spain.\n\nIn April 2009 Jurdan Martitegi was arrested, making him the fourth consecutive ETA military chief to be captured within a single year, an unprecedented police record, further weakening the group. Violence surged in the middle of 2009, with several ETA attacks leaving three people dead and dozens injured around Spain.\n\nThe Basque newspaper \"Gara\" published an article that suggested that ETA member Jon Anza could have been killed and buried by Spanish police in April 2009. The central prosecutor in the French town of Bayonne, Anne Kayanakis, announced, as the official version, that the autopsy carried out on the body of Jon Anza – a suspected member of the armed Basque group ETA, missing since April 2009 – revealed no signs of having been beaten, wounded or shot, which should rule out any suspicions that he died from unnatural causes. Nevertheless, that very magistrate denied the demand of the family asking for the presence of a family doctor during the autopsy. After this, Jon Anza's family members asked for a second autopsy to be carried out.\n\nIn December 2009, Spain raised its terror alert after warning that ETA could be planning major attacks or high-profile kidnappings during Spain's European Union presidency. The next day, after being asked by the opposition, Alfredo Pérez Rubalcaba said that warning was part of a strategy.\n\nOn 5 September 2010, ETA declared a new ceasefire, its third, after two previous ceasefires were ended by the group. A spokesperson speaking on a video announcing the ceasefire said the group wished to use \"peaceful, democratic means\" to achieve its aims, though it was not specified whether the ceasefire was considered permanent by the group. ETA claimed that it had made the decision to initiate a ceasefire several months prior to the announcement. In part of the video, the spokesperson said that the group was \"prepared today as yesterday to agree to the minimum democratic conditions necessary to put in motion a democratic process, if the Spanish government is willing.\"\n\nThe announcement was met with a mixed reaction; Basque nationalist politicians responded positively, and said that the Spanish and international governments should do the same, while the Spanish interior counselor of Basque, Rodolfo Ares, said that the commitment did not go far enough. He said that he considered ETA's statement \"absolutely insufficient\" because it did not commit to a complete termination of what Ares considered \"terrorist activity\" by the group.\n\nOn 10 January 2011, ETA declared that their September 2010 ceasefire would be permanent and verifiable by international observers. Observers urged caution, pointing out that ETA had broken permanent ceasefires in the past, whereas Prime Minister José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero (who left office in December 2011) demanded that ETA declare that it had given up violence once and for all. After the declaration, Spanish press started speculating of a possible Real IRA-type split within ETA, with hardliners forming a new more violent offshoot led by \"Dienteputo\".\n\nOn 21 October 2011, ETA announced a cessation of armed activity via video clip sent to media outlets following the Donostia-San Sebastián International Peace Conference, which was attended by former UN Secretary-General Kofi Annan, former Taoiseach of Ireland Bertie Ahern, former Prime Minister of Norway Gro Harlem Brundtland (an international leader in sustainable development and public health), former Interior Minister of France Pierre Joxe, president of Sinn Féin Gerry Adams (a Teachta Dála in Dáil Éireann), and British diplomat Jonathan Powell, who served as the first Downing Street Chief of Staff.\n\nThey all signed a final declaration that was supported also by former UK Prime Minister Tony Blair, the former US President and 2002 Nobel Peace Prize winner Jimmy Carter, and the former US senator and former US Special Envoy for Middle East Peace George J. Mitchell. The meeting did not include Spanish or French government representatives.\n\nThe day after the ceasefire, in a contribution piece to the \"New York Times\", Tony Blair indicated that lessons in dealing with paramilitary separatist groups can be learned from the way in which the Spanish administration handled ETA. Blair wrote, \"governments must firmly defend themselves, their principles and their people against terrorists. This requires good police and intelligence work as well as political determination. [However], firm security pressure on terrorists must be coupled with offering them a way out when they realize that they cannot win by violence. Terrorist groups are rarely defeated by military means alone\". Blair also suggested that Spain will need to discuss weapon decommissioning, peace strategies, reparations for victims, and security with ETA, as Britain has discussed with the Provisional IRA.\n\nETA has declared ceasefires many times before, most significantly in 1999 and 2006, but the Spanish government and media outlets expressed particularly hopeful opinions regarding the permanence of this proclamation. Spanish premier José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero described the move as \"a victory for democracy, law and reason\". Additionally, the effort of security and intelligence forces in Spain and France are cited by politicians as the primary instruments responsible for the weakening of ETA. The optimism may come as a surprise considering ETA’s failure to renounce the independence movement, which has been one of the Spanish government’s requirements. ETA’s ceasefire video ended with the assertion that the struggle for the Basque homeland continues.\n\nLess optimistically, Spanish Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy of the center-right People's Party expressed the need to push for the full dissolution of ETA. The People's Party has emphasized the obligation of the state to refuse negotiations with separatist movements since former Prime Minister José María Aznar was in office. Aznar was responsible for banning media outlets seen as subversive to the state and Batasuna, the political party of ETA. Additionally, in preparation for his party’s manifesto, on 30 October 2011, Rajoy declared that the People's Party would not negotiate with ETA under threats of violence nor announcements of the group’s termination, but would instead focus party efforts on remembering and honoring victims of separatist violence.\n\nWhile ETA pledged to refrain from a violent separatist movement, the separatist movement was not denounced. The ETA announcement reinforced the struggle for the Basque homeland, but through the use of democratic means. This event may not alter the goals of the Basque separatist movement, but will change the method of the fight for a more autonomous state. Negotiations with the newly elected administration may prove difficult with the return to the center-right People's Party, which is replacing Socialist control, due to pressure from within the party to refuse all ETA negotiations.\n\nIn September 2016, French police stated that they did not believe ETA had made progress in giving up arms. In March 2017, well-known French-Basque activist was quoted as having told \"Le Monde\", \"ETA has made us responsible for the disarmament of its arsenal, and by the afternoon of 8 April, ETA will be completely unarmed.\" On 7 April, the BBC reported that ETA would disarm \"tomorrow\", including a photo of a stamped ETA letter attesting to this. The French police found 3.5 tonnes of weapons on 8 April, the following day, at the caches handed over by ETA.\n\nETA, for its part, issued a statement endorsing the 2017 Catalan independence referendum.\n\nETA announced its full dissolution effective from 2 May 2018.\n\nETA's targets expanded from military or police-related personnel and their families, to a wider array, which included the following:\n\n\n\nETA's tactics included:\n\nThese bombs sometimes killed family members of ETA's target victim and bystanders. When the bombs were large car-bombs seeking to produce large damage and terror, they were generally announced by one or more telephone calls made to newspapers speaking in the name of ETA. Charities (usually Detente Y Ayuda—DYA) were also used to announce the threat if the bomb was in a populated area. The type of explosives used in these attacks were initially Goma-2 or self-produced ammonal. After a number of successful robberies in France, ETA began using Titadyne.\n\nWith its attacks against what they consider \"enemies of the Basque people\", ETA has killed over 820 people since 1968 to date, including more than 340 civilians. It has maimed hundreds more and kidnapped dozens.\n\nIts ability to inflict violence has declined steadily since the group was at its strongest during the late 1970s and 1980 (when it killed 92 people in a single year). After decreasing peaks in the fatal casualties in 1987 and 1991, 2000 remains to date as the last year when ETA killed more than 20 in a single year. Since 2002 to date, the yearly number of ETA's fatal casualties has been reduced to single digits.\n\nSimilarly, over the 1990s and, especially, during the 2000s (decade), fluid cooperation between the French and Spanish police, state-of-the-art tracking devices and techniques and, apparently, police infiltration have allowed increasingly repeating blows to ETA's leadership and structure (between May 2008 and April 2009 no less than four consecutive \"military chiefs\" were arrested).\n\nETA operates mainly in Spain, particularly in the Basque Country, Navarre, and (to a lesser degree) Madrid, Barcelona, and the tourist areas of the Spanish Mediterranean coast. To date, about 65% of ETA's killings have been committed in the Basque Country, followed by Madrid with roughly 15%. Navarre and Catalonia also register significant numbers.\n\nActions in France usually consist of assaults on arsenals or military industries in order to steal weapons or explosives; these are usually stored in large quantities in hide-outs located in the French Basque Country rather than Spain. The French judge Laurence Le Vert has been threatened by ETA and a plot arguably aiming to assassinate her was unveiled. Only very rarely have ETA members engaged in shootings with the French Gendarmerie. This has often occurred mainly when members of the group were confronted at checkpoints.\n\nIn spite of this, ETA killed in France on 1 December 2007, two Spanish Civil Guards on counter-terrorist surveillance duties in Capbreton, Landes. This has been its first killing after it ended its 2006 declaration of \"permanent ceasefire\" and the first killing committed by ETA in France of a Spanish police agent ever since 1976, when they kidnapped, tortured and assassinated two Spanish inspectors in Hendaye.\n\nMore recently, 2007 police reports point out that, after the serious blows suffered by ETA and its political counterparts during the 2000s (decade), its budget would have been adjusted to 2,000,000 euros annually.\n\nAlthough ETA used robbery as a means of financing its activities in its early days, it has since been accused both of arms trafficking and of benefiting economically from its political counterpart Batasuna. Extortion remains ETA's main source of funds.\n\nETA is considered to form part of what is informally known as the Basque National Liberation Movement, a movement born much after ETA's creation. This loose term refers to a range of political organizations that are ideologically akin, comprising several distinct organizations that promote a type of leftist Basque nationalism that is often referred to by the Basque-language term \"Ezker Abertzalea\" (Nationalist Left). Other groups typically considered to belong to this independentist movement are: the political party Batasuna, the nationalist youth organization Segi, the labour union Langile Abertzaleen Batzordeak (LAB), and Askatasuna among others. There are often strong interconnections between these groups, double or even triple membership are not infrequent.\n\nThere are Basque nationalist parties with similar goals as those of ETA (namely, independence) but who openly reject their violent means. They are: EAJ-PNV, Eusko Alkartasuna, Aralar and, in the French Basque country, Abertzaleen Batasuna. In addition, a number of left-wing parties, such as Ezker Batua, Batzarre and some sectors of the EAJ-PNV party, also support self-determination but are not in favour of independence.\n\nHistorically, members of ETA have taken refuge in France, particularly the French Basque Country. The leadership have typically chosen to live in France for security reasons, where police pressure is much less than in Spain. Accordingly, ETA's tactical approach had been to downplay the issue of independence of the French Basque country so as to get French acquiescence for their activities. The French government quietly tolerated the group, especially during Franco's regime, when ETA members could face the death penalty in Spain. In the 1980s, the advent of the GAL still hindered counter-terrorist cooperation between France and Spain, with the French government considering ETA a Spanish domestic problem. At the time, ETA members often travelled between the two countries using the French sanctuary as a base of operations.\n\nWith the disbanding of the GAL, the French government changed its position on the matter and in the 1990s initiated the ongoing period of active cooperation with the Spanish government against ETA, including fast-track transfers of detainees to Spanish tribunals that are regarded as fully compliant with European Union legislation on human rights and the legal representation of detainees. Virtually all of the highest ranks within ETA –including their successive \"military\", \"political\" or finances chiefs – have been captured in French territory, from where they had been plotting their activities after having crossed the border from Spain.\n\nIn response to the new situation, ETA carried out attacks against French policemen and made threats to some French judges and prosecutors. This implied a change from the group's previous low-profile in the French Basque Country, which successive ETA leaders had used to discreetly manage their activities in Spain.\n\nETA considers its prisoners political prisoners. Until 2003, ETA consequently forbade them to ask penal authorities for progression to \"tercer grado\" (a form of open prison that allows single-day or weekend furloughs) or parole. Before that date, those who did so were menaced and expelled from the group. Some were assassinated by ETA for leaving the group and going through reinsertion programs.\n\nThe Spanish Government passed the \"Ley de Partidos Políticos\". This is a law barring political parties that support violence and do not condemn terrorist actions or are involved with terrorist groups.<ref name=\"Ley 6/2002\">Ley Orgánica 6/2002, de 27 de junio, de Partidos Políticos. Noticias.juridicas.com (21 January 2011). Retrieved on 30 January 2011.</ref> The law resulted in the banning of Herri Batasuna and its successor parties unless they explicitly condemned terrorist actions and, at times, imprisoning or trying some of its leaders who have been indicted for cooperation with ETA.\n\nJudge Baltasar Garzón has initiated a judicial procedure (coded as \"18/98\"), aimed towards the support structure of ETA. This procedure started in 1998 with the preventive closure of the newspaper \"Egin\" (and its associated radio-station \"Egin Irratia\"), accused of being linked to ETA, and temporary imprisoning the editor of its \"investigative unit\", Pepe Rei, under similar accusations. In August 1999 Judge Baltasar Garzón authorized the reopening of the newspaper and the radio, but they could not reopen due to economic difficulties.\n\nJudicial procedure 18/98 has many ramifications, including the following:\n\n\n, indicted members of the youth movements Haika, Segi and Jarrai have been found guilty (January 2007) of a crime of connivance with terrorism. Most of the other trials are still under process.\n\nOn Tuesday 20 May 2008, leading ETA figures were arrested in Bordeaux, France. Francisco Javier López Peña, also known as 'Thierry,' had been on the run for twenty years before his arrest. A final total of arrests brought in six people, including ETA members and supporters, including the ex-Mayor of Andoain, José Antonio Barandiarán, who is rumoured to have led police to 'Thierry'. The Spanish Interior Ministry claimed the relevance of the arrests would come in time with the investigation. Furthermore, the Interior Minister said that those members of ETA now arrested had ordered the latest attacks, and that senior ETA member Francisco Javier López Peña was \"not just another arrest because he is, in all probability, the man who has most political and military weight in the terrorist group.\"\n\nAfter Lopez Pena's arrest, along with the Basque referendum being put on hold, police work has been on the rise. On 22 July 2008, Spanish police dismantled the most active cell of ETA by detaining nine suspected members of the group. Interior Minister Alfredo Perez Rubalcaba said about the arrests: \"We can't say this is the only ETA unit but it was the most active, most dynamic and of course the most wanted one.\" Four days later French police also arrested two suspects believed to be tied to the same active cell. The two suspects were: Asier Eceiza, considered a top aide to a senior ETA operative still sought by police, and Olga Comes, whom authorities have linked to the ETA suspects.\n\nThe European Union and the United States list ETA as a terrorist group in their relevant watch lists. ETA has been a Proscribed Organisation in the United Kingdom under the Terrorism Act 2000 since 29 March 2001. The Canadian Parliament listed ETA as a terrorist group in 2003.\n\nFrance and Spain have often shown co-operation in the fight against ETA, after France's lack of co-operation during the Franco era. In late 2007, two Spanish guards were shot to death in France when on a joint operation with their French counterparts. Furthermore, in May 2008, the arrests of four people in Bordeaux led to a major breakthrough against ETA, according to the Spanish Interior Ministry.\n\nOn 2 October 2008, as ETA activity increased, France increased its pressure on ETA by arresting more ETA suspects, including Unai Fano, María Lizarraga on 23 September, and Esteban Murillo Zubiri in Bidarrain. He had been wanted by the Spanish authorities since 2007 when a Europol arrest warrant was issued against him. French judicial authorities had already ordered that he be held in prison on remand.\n\nSpain has also sought cooperation from the United Kingdom in dealing with ETA-IRA ties. In November 2008, this came to light after Iñaki de Juana Chaos, whose release from prison was canceled on appeal, had moved to Belfast. He was thought to be staying at an IRA safe house while being sought by the Spanish authorities. Interpol notified the judge, Eloy Velasco, that he was in either the Republic of Ireland or Northern Ireland.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5521365", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5521365", "title": "Elinor Raas Heller", "text": "Elinor Raas Heller\n\nElinor Raas Heller (October 3, 1904 – August 15, 1987) was an American academic administrator. From 1961–1976 she was a Regent of the University of California. She served as Chair in 1975–1976, and Vice-Chair in 1968–1969 and 1971–1972. In 1973 she was appointed to serve on California's Postsecondary Education Commission. She received the Clark Kerr Award in 1976.\n\nBorn in San Francisco, California, Heller graduated from Mills College in 1925. At the time of the Berkeley Free Speech Movement in 1964, another regent, Edwin Pauley, with the covert assistance of the FBI, attempted to remove her from the board. She was one of six regents who voted against the firing of Angela Davis in 1969.\n\nHeller was also a member of the Democratic National Committee (1944–1952) and the World Affairs Council of Northern California. She was an alternate delegate to the 1944 Democratic National Convention, and a delegate in 1948 and 1956. In the 1952 presidential election, she was a candidate for Presidential Elector in California on behalf of Adlai Stevenson. in 1974 Heller was elected a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences.\nShe married financier Edward Hellman Heller in 1925. The couple resided in Atherton, California and had three children. Edward Heller died in 1961.\n\n"}
{"id": "5921304", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5921304", "title": "Engage (organisation)", "text": "Engage (organisation)\n\nEngage is an anti-racist organisation which publishes materials in opposition to antisemitism, primarily in UK academic institutions. The group is made up of left-wing academics who oppose boycotts of Israel. The organisation describes its mission as follows: \"Engage challenges left and liberal antisemitism in the labour movement, in our universities and in public life more generally. Antisemitism here, manifests itself mainly as anti-Zionism. We are a resource for the monitoring and the critique of left and liberal antisemitism.\" Engage was founded in response to the decision of the Association of University Teachers to participate in a cultural and academic boycott of Israel.\n\nThe founders of Engage are David Hirsh, who teaches at Goldsmiths College at the University of London, and Jon Pike, who teaches at the Open University. Hirsh had written about left and liberal antisemitism for the Guardian Unlimited blog. Well-known supporters have included the late academic and blogger Norman Geras.\n\nAccording to its founding statement, the organisation\n\n"}
{"id": "5140915", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5140915", "title": "English school of international relations theory", "text": "English school of international relations theory\n\nThe English School of international relations theory (sometimes also referred to as liberal realism, the International Society school or the British institutionalists) maintains that there is a 'society of states' at the international level, despite the condition of anarchy (that is, the lack of a global ruler or world state). The English school stands for the conviction that ideas, rather than simply material capabilities, shape the conduct of international politics, and therefore deserve analysis and critique. In this sense it is similar to constructivism, though the English School has its roots more in world history, international law and political theory, and is more open to normative approaches than is generally the case with constructivism.\n\nThe classical English school starts with the realist assumption of an international \"system\" that forms as soon as two or more states have a sufficient amount of interaction. It underlines the English school tradition of realism and \"Machtpolitik\" (power politics) and puts international anarchy at the centre of International Relations Theory.\nHedley Bull defined the international system as being formed \" when two or more have sufficient contact between them, and has sufficient impact on one another's decisions to cause them to behave as part of a whole.\n\nHedley Bull, however, argued that states share a certain common interest (usually the \"fear of unrestricted violence\") that lead to the development of a certain set of \"rules\". He thus defined an international society as existent when:\n\nIn Bull's view, any type of society needed to have rules about restraints on the use of force, about the sanctity of agreements, and about property rights. Without elements of these three there would be no society.\n\nThese \"rules\" are expressed in a set of institutions that capture the normative structure of any international society. In the classical English School these were: war, the great powers, diplomacy, the balance of power, and international law, especially in the mutual recognition of sovereignty by states. To these could be added: territoriality, nationalism, the market, and human equality. Since these rules are not legally binding and there is no ordering institutions, speaking of norms would probably be more appropriate. States that respect these basic rules form an international society. Brown and Ainley therefore define the international society as a \"norm-governed relationship whose members accept that they have at least limited responsibilities towards one another and the society as a whole\". States thus follow their interests, but not at all costs. Another way of looking at this would be through Adam Watson's term 'raison de système', a counterpoint to 'raison d'état', and defined as 'the idea that it pays to make the system work'.\n\nThere are differing accounts, within the school, concerning the evolution of those ideas, some (like Martin Wight) arguing their origins can be found in the remnants of medieval conceptions of \"societas Christiana\", and others such as Hedley Bull, in the concerns of sovereign states to safeguard and promote basic goals, especially their survival. Most English School understandings of international society blend these two together, maintaining that the contemporary society of states is partly the product of a common civilization - the Christian world of medieval Europe, and before that, the Roman Empire - and partly that of a kind of Lockean contract.\n\nBased on a Kantian understanding of the world, the concept of world society takes the global population as a whole as basis for a global identity. However, Buzan also argued that the concept of World Society was the \"Cinderella concept of English school theory\", as it received almost no conceptual development.\n\nA great deal of the English School of thought concerns itself with the examination of traditional international theory, casting it — as Martin Wight did in his 1950s-era lectures at the London School of Economics — into three divisions (called by Barry Buzan as the English School's triad, based on Wight's \"three traditions\"):\n\nIn broad terms, the English School itself has supported the rationalist or Grotian tradition, seeking a middle way (or \"via media\") between the 'power politics' of realism and the 'utopianism' of revolutionism.\n\nLater Wight changed his triad into a four-part division by adding Mazzini.\n\nThe English School is largely a constructivist theory, emphasizing the non-deterministic nature of anarchy in international affairs that also draws on functionalism and realism.\n\nThe English School is often understood to be split into two main wings, named after two categories described by Hedley Bull:\n\nThere are, however, further divisions within the school. The most obvious is that between those scholars who acquire that the school's approach should be historical and normative (such as Robert Jackson or Tim Dunne) and those who think it can be methodologically 'pluralist', making use of 'positivist' approaches to the field (like Barry Buzan and Richard Little).\n\nThe English School does have affinities:\n\nContemporary English School writers draw from a variety of sources:\n\nThe 'English-ness' of the school is questionable - many of its most prominent members are not English - and its intellectual origins are disputed. One view (that of Hidemi Suganami) is that its roots lie in the work of pioneering inter-war scholars like the South African Charles Manning, the founding professor of the Department of International Relations at the London School of Economics. Others (especially Tim Dunne and Brunello Vigezzi) have located them in the work of the British committee on the theory of international politics, a group created in 1959 under the chairmanship of the Cambridge historian Herbert Butterfield, with financial aid from the Rockefeller Foundation. Both positions acknowledge the central role played by the theorists Martin Wight, Hedley Bull (an Australian teaching at the London School of Economics) and R J Vincent.\n\nThe name 'English School' was first coined by Roy Jones in an article published in the \"Review of International Studies\" in 1981, entitled \"The English school - a case for closure\". Some other descriptions - notably that of 'British institutionalists' (Hidemi Suganami) - have been suggested, but are not generally used. Throughout the development of the theory, the name became widely accepted, not least because it was developed almost exclusively at the London School of Economics, Cambridge and Oxford University.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1649390", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1649390", "title": "Fifteenth Amendment of the Constitution of Ireland", "text": "Fifteenth Amendment of the Constitution of Ireland\n\nThe Fifteenth Amendment of the Constitution Act 1995 (previously bill no. 15 of 1995) is an amendment of the Constitution of Ireland which removed the constitutional prohibition on divorce, and allowed for the dissolution of a marriage provided specified conditions were satisfied. It was approved by referendum on 24 November 1995 and signed into law on 17 June 1996.\n\nThe Constitution of Ireland adopted in 1937 included a constitutional ban on divorce. A previous bill to amend this provision proposed by the Fine Gael–Labour Party government of Garret FitzGerald, the Tenth Amendment of the Constitution Bill 1986, was rejected in a referendum by 63.5% to 36.5%.\n\nIn the intervening years, the Judicial Separation and Family Law Reform Act 1989 allowed for legal separation to be recognised by a court. The government made other legislative changes to address the issues identified in that referendum campaign, including the social welfare and pension rights of divorced spouses, which were copper fastened, and the abolition of the status of illegitimacy to remove any distinction between the rights of the children of first and subsequent unions.\n\nShortly before its collapse, the 1989–92 government published a white paper on marriage breakdown, which proposed \"to have a referendum on divorce after a full debate on the complex issues involved and following the enactment of other legislative proposals in the area of family law\". \n\nIn 1995, the Fine Gael–Labour Party–Democratic Left government of John Bruton proposed a new amendment to allow for divorce in specified circumstances.\n\nThe Fifteenth Amendment deleted the following Article 41.3.2º of the Constitution:\n\nand substituted that subsection with the following:\nThe Fifteenth Amendment of the Constitution (No. 2) Bill 1995 was proposed in the Dáil on 27 October 1995 by Minister for Equality and Law Reform Mervyn Taylor. An amendment was proposed by Helen Keogh on behalf of the Progressive Democrats which would have allowed for legislation generally, without the restrictions proposed in the government's proposal:\n\nThis amendment was rejected and the Bill passed final stages by the Dáil without division on 11 October. It was passed by the Seanad on 18 October and proceed to a referendum on 24 November 1995.\n\nThe Catholic Church was strongly against the amendment, but stated that Catholics could vote for the amendment in good conscience, and that it would not be a sin to do so.\n\nThe '± Yes 1986' column shows the percentage point change in the Yes vote compared to the Tenth Amendment of the Constitution Bill on a similar proposal rejected in a referendum in 1986.\n\nDuring the referendum, government funds were used to advertise in favour of a 'Yes' vote. One week before the referendum, Patricia McKenna, a Green Party MEP, successfully lodged a complaint against the government with the Supreme Court, and the advertising stopped. This Supreme Court decision led to legislation that would establish a Referendum Commission for each referendum, commencing with the Eighteenth Amendment in 1998.\n\nThe returning officer submitted a provisional certificate of the result of the referendum in the High Court as required by the Referendum Act 1994. \n\nAccording to \"The Irish Times\", \"the polls taken at the time showed that, if anything, the end of the advertising campaign coincided with a halt in the slide of support for divorce\". Because of the use of Government funds for one side of the campaign, a petition against the result was lodged by Des Hanafin, a Fianna Fáil Senator and chairman of the Pro Life Campaign, which was dismissed by the High Court on 9 February 1996. Hanafin appealed to the Supreme Court, which in June upheld the High Court decision. The High Court then endorsed the provisional certificate on 14 June 1996. President Mary Robinson signed the amendment bill into law three days later.\n\nBefore the referendum, a draft Family Law (Divorce) Bill was published to illustrate how the Constitutional provisions would be implemented if the amendment were passed. Once the Constitutional amendment came into force, the divorce bill was introduced in the Oireachtas on 27 June 1996 and signed into law on 27 November 1996. This gave effect in primary legislation to the new Constitutional provisions. Although this act, the Family Law (Divorce) Act, 1996, specified its own commencement date as 27 February 1997, the first divorce was granted on 17 January 1997, based solely on the constitutional amendment, to a dying man who wanted urgently to marry his new partner.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23650626", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23650626", "title": "Gentleman's farm", "text": "Gentleman's farm\n\nA gentleman's farm is a property that is owned by a gentleman farmer who has a farm as part of his estate and who farms mainly for pleasure rather than for profit or sustenance. His acreage may produce any number of types of grains, poultry or other livestock. The estate can vary from under ten to hundreds or even thousands of acres. The gentleman farmer can employ labourers and farm managers. The chief source of income for the gentleman farmer was derived not from any income that the landed property may generate. He invariably had his own private income, worked as a professional, owned a large business elsewhere, or some combination of the three.\n\nSome notable gentleman farmers include James Roosevelt I, the father of President Franklin Delano Roosevelt, Dwight D. Eisenhower who retired to a farm near Gettysburg, Pennsylvania after leaving the White House, George Washington, who farmed at Mount Vernon, Winthrop Rockefeller son of John D. Rockefeller, Jr. who moved to Arkansas in 1953 and established Winrock Farms atop Petit Jean Mountain, Frederick Hinde Zimmerman, Frank C. Rathje, and William Locke Allison, known for Allison Woods, which was added to the National Register of Historic Places in 1995.\n\n"}
{"id": "21088706", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21088706", "title": "Gunnysacking", "text": "Gunnysacking\n\nGunnysacking is when someone silently collects irritations and slights until \"the last straw is placed on them\" causing an overblown reaction. \n\nGunnysacking has been described as 'an alienating fight tactic in which a person saves up, or gunnysacks, grievances until the sack gets too heavy and bursts, and old hostilities pour out'. (A gunny sack is a cloth container used for carrying or storing things).\n\nGunnysacking is used in conflict resolution, referring to the act of \"storing up\" grievances acquired in the course of a relationship without systematically resolving them. 'When grievances simmer, they build and build in intensity until there's an explosion; when they are aired and worked out, it takes the pressure off'.\n\nThe related practice of 'stonewalling may encourage one's partner to engage in \"gunnysacking\" – keeping one's grievances secret while tossing them into an imaginary gunnysack, which grows heavier and heavier over time'.\n\nThe term may alternately refer to the act of verbally bringing up past grievances (i.e. dumping the contents of the sack) during the process of trying to resolve some present problem in a relationship – 'gunnysacking or bringing in everything but the kitchen sink'. In which case, gunnysacking (as a tactic) has the dual effect of raising additional problems (in what is typically already a volatile situation) and presenting an obstacle to dealing with the current issues. Once the practice becomes a familiar pattern used by one person in a relationship, other persons may avoid reporting new issues or problems for the sake of avoiding a repeat of the gunnysacking behavior.\n\"Couples who engage in patterns of negative reciprocity, such as joint gunnysacking and sequences of complaints followed by countercomplaints, report less relational satisfaction\". By contrast, 'constructive fighting aims at resolving specific problems that are happening \"now\" – not at gunnysacking'.\n\n"}
{"id": "24591629", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24591629", "title": "HDcctv", "text": "HDcctv\n\nHDcctv (High Definition Closed Circuit Television) is an open industrial standard for transmitting uncompressed high-definition digital video over point-to-point coaxial cable links for video surveillance applications. HDcctv uses the SMPTE HD-SDI protocol and can transmit 720p or 1080p video over at least 100 m of RG59 cable.\n\nThe HDcctv Alliance is a non-profit, global consortium that develops and promotes the HDcctv standard. Advantages over IP video surveillance are claimed to include low latency and zero configuration.\n\nDevices incorporating HDcctv interfaces include video cameras, DVRs and repeaters.\n\nOne of the main advantages of HDcctv is that it does not require significant modification for existing CCTV systems designed for analog cameras originally using composite NTSC or PAL video, for which extensive cabling and labor was invested for installation of the original analog system.\n\nSince the coaxial cables originally used for the analog system have significant unused data spectrum available, it is a simple matter to just replace the camera and the recorder to obtain nearly seven times higher detail (1920x1080 vs 640x480) than the original camera system. Since coaxial cable is capable of carrying a hundred HDTV channels simultaneously, there is still more unused data capacity available for future resolution improvements.\n\n"}
{"id": "23885477", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23885477", "title": "International Disability and Development Consortium", "text": "International Disability and Development Consortium\n\nThe International Disability and Development Consortium (IDDC) is a global consortium of disability and development related organisations. The aim of IDDC is to promote inclusive development internationally, with a special focus on promoting human rights for all disabled people living in economically poor communities in lower and middle-income countries.\n\nIDDC's work is primarily led by task groups where members collaborate to exchange views and ideas, and agree upon common strategies and positions. These task groups are thus fundamental to the implementation of the IDDC objectives.\n\nIn 1993, the Italian organization, Associazione Italiana Amici di Raoul Follereau, had been discussing the need for collaboration with the World Health Organization's Rehabilitation Unit – now the Disability and Rehabilitation Team – and decided to call a meeting of European NGOs who were involved in disability and leprosy programmes in countries in the South. Eleven NGOs attended the first meeting and at a subsequent meeting in Oslo in 1994, the International Disability Consortium (IDC) was established with the aim of sharing information and expertise and to collaborate so that their work would be more effective and efficient.\n\nIDDC Currently has 23 full members:\n"}
{"id": "14196863", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14196863", "title": "International Media Support", "text": "International Media Support\n\nInternational Media Support (IMS) is an international NGO located in Copenhagen, Denmark, working to support local media in countries affected by armed conflict, human insecurity and political transition. It works in 41 countries to improve professional journalism and help media personnel to operate under difficult circumstances. The group works to promote freedom of expression and freedom of the press, in order to reduce conflict, strengthen democracy and bring about dialogue.\n\nIMS was established in 2001 in the wake of violence and killings in Rwanda and the former Yugoslavia. In the 1990s, IMS members believe these and other conflicts saw media being manipulated and used as a tool to fuel violent conflict. IMS was set up in response, with an aim to helping local media working in conflict-affected areas to remain operative and professional. The group works in partnership with local media and media support organisations, nationally and internationally, to identify and react rapidly and flexibly to the needs of local media. This can include help with media laws and media reforms, skills training, technical support and the protection of journalists. The group advocates media rights and monitors for violations, supporting community, exiled and alternative media, and works with media professionals within and across borders to promote knowledge exchange and cooperation.\n\nThe group aims to undertake its work through cooperation and collaboration, seeking to encourage maximum coordination with existing local and international initiatives.\n"}
{"id": "42150266", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42150266", "title": "Kamgar Kisan Paksha", "text": "Kamgar Kisan Paksha\n\nThe Kamgar Kisan Paksha ('Worker Peasant Party') was a political party in Bombay State, India. The party was formed by a group of dissidents from the Peasants and Workers Party of India in November 1951, just before the 1951-1952 elections. The founders of Kamgar Kisan Paksha wanted closer cooperation with the Communist Party of India. Its main leaders were Nana Patil, Datta Deshmukh and D.S. Wagh (popularly known as 'Kakasaheb Wagh').\n\nThe party fielded three candidates in the 1951-1952 Lok Sabha election, whom together obtained 132,574 votes (1.15% of the votes in Bombay State). None of its Lok Sabha candidates were elected. Navsherwanji Naorojaji Satha finished in second place in the Ahmednagar South constituency, with 67,239 votes (43.09% of the votes in the constituency). Gambhirrao Avachitrao Chavan finished in third place in the Bhuswal constituency, with 38,450 votes (17.5%). Gopal Ganesh Saundarkar finished in third place in the Nasik Central constituency, with 26,885 votes (13.10%).\n\nThe party fielded 33 candidates in the 1952 Bombay State legislative assembly election, whom together obtained 248,130 votes (2.23% of the votes in the state). Deshmukh won one of the two seats from the Akola Sangamner constituency and Patil won the Satara East seat. The election symbol of the party was a bicycle. However, the Greater Bombay area the party contested as part of a joint front with the Communist Party and the Left Socialist Group. The election symbol for this joint front was a railway engine.\n\nSoon the party was split on the issue of the relation with the Communist Party. The tendency led by Patil and Wagh ended up merging itself into the Communist Party of India. A sector, led by Deshmukh and supported by the \"Navajivan\" faction (a group expelled from the Communist Party in 1942, which the Peasants and Workers Party had admitted \"en bloc\" in 1951), regrouped as the Lal Nishan Gat (Red Flag Group). The Deshmukh group would later be known as the Lal Nishan Party.\n"}
{"id": "5190941", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5190941", "title": "Kosynierzy", "text": "Kosynierzy\n\nKosynierzy (singular: kosynier; sometimes translated as scythe-bearers or scythemen, from Polish \"kosa\", scythe) is the term for soldiers (often peasants) armed with war scythes. First appearing in the Kościuszko Insurrection of 1794, kosynierzy quickly became one of the symbols of the struggle for Polish independence.\n\nThe term comes from the Polish language. In Poland the kosynierzy formations are best remembered for their decisive role in the Battle of Racławice, 1794, during the Kościuszko Insurrection. Through this battle, well known in Poland, and because of Kościuszko's influence and pro-peasant stance, the kosynierzy became one of the symbols of the fight for Polish independence, as well as a symbol of self-identification of the peasantry with the Polish nation. One of the kosynierzy, Wojciech Bartosz Głowacki, recognized for his bravery in the battle of Racławice, became one of the most famous Polish peasants, a symbol in his own right, attracting what some described as a cult following.\n\nThe tradition of the kosynierzy would be commemorated through peasant-staged battle reenactments, statues, poems, and plays.\n\nDuring the Kościuszko Uprising, most of the peasants who joined the kosynierzy units came from the Kraków region, inspired by the Proclamation of Połaniec that Kościuszko issued there. Local quartermasters issued a simple uniform to them, based on the Kraków regional peasant garb (white sukmana dress, plus a cheap military rogatywka cap in red). This garb soon became traditionally associated with the kosynierzy.\n\nDespite the popular myth, the kosynierzy were only a support formation in Kościuszko's forces during the uprising; they formed a majority of troops in only one infantry regiment.\n\nKosynierzy units also fought in the November Uprising of 1830–31, the Kraków Uprising of 1846, the January Uprising of 1863–64, and possibly as late as during the German invasion of Poland of 1939. Though less remembered, the kosynierzy's participation in the November and January Uprisings were likely more significant than during the Kośiuszko Insurrection.\n"}
{"id": "42680162", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42680162", "title": "Land reform in South Africa", "text": "Land reform in South Africa\n\nThe land reform in SA promises \"land restitution\" that aims to empower farm workers (who now have the opportunity to become farmers) and reduce inequality. It is believed to allow previously unemployed people to participate in the economy and better the country's economic growth.\n\nHowever, many South Africans and foreign commentators have also voiced alarm over the failure of the redistribution policy. Around 50% of farms are said to be failing, and critics suggest that the ANC government's policy will be detrimental to the South African agricultural industry.\n\nThe Land Reform Process focused on three areas: restitution, land tenure reform and land redistribution. Restitution, where the government compensates (monetary) individuals who had been forcefully removed, has been very unsuccessful and the policy has now shifted to redistribution with secure land tenure. Land tenure reform is a system of recognizing people's right to own land and therefore control of the land.\n\nRedistribution is the most important component of land reform in South Africa. Initially, land was bought from its owners (willing seller) by the government (willing buyer) and redistributed, in order to maintain public confidence in the land market.\n\nAlthough this system has worked in various countries in the world, in South Africa it has proved to be very difficult to implement. This is because many owners do not actually see the land they are purchasing and are not involved in the important decisions made at the beginning of the purchase and negotiation.\n\nIn 2000 the South African Government decided to review and change the redistribution and tenure process to a more decentralised and area based planning process. The idea is to have local integrated development plans in 47 districts. This will hopefully mean more community participation and more redistribution taking place, but there are also various concerns and challenges with this system too.\n\nThese include the use of third parties, agents accredited by the state, and who are held accountable to the government. The result has been local land holding elites dominating the system in many of these areas. The government still hopes that with \"improved identification and selection of beneficiaries, better planning of land and ultimately greater productivity of the land acquired...\" the land reform process will begin moving faster.\n\nAs of early 2006, the ANC government announced that it will start expropriating the land, although according to the country's chief land-claims commissioner, Tozi Gwanya, unlike Zimbabwe there will be compensation to those whose land is expropriated, \"but it must be a just amount, not inflated sums.\"\n\nDespite these moves towards decentralisation, these improved practices and government promises are not very evident. South Africa still remains hugely unequal, with black South Africans still dispossessed of land and many still homeless. The challenge for the incumbent politicians is to improve the various bureaucratic processes, and find solutions to giving more South Africans secure land tenure.\n\nIn South Africa, the main model of Land Reforms that was implemented was based on the Market-led Agrarian Reform (MLAR) approach. Within the MLAR, the strategic partnership (SP) model was implemented in seven claimant communities in Levubu in the Limpopo province. The SP model was implemented between 2005–2008 that ended up in a fiasco leading to creation of conflict between several interested parties.\n\nOn 1 September 2010 the National Rural Youth Service Corps (NARYSEC) was launched by the Department of Rural Development and Land Reform to provide and recruit rural youth specifically dependents of Military Veterans between the ages of 18–25 with skills development and to serve their communities by providing a 24-month training program at South African military bases.\n\nOn 20 December 2017 the ruling ANC-led government announced at their 54th National Conference that they will seek to amend Section 25 of the South African Constitution regarding property rights to implement \"land expropriation without compensation\" (EWC). At the conference a resolution was passed to grant ownership of traditional land to the respective communities, about 13% of the country, usually registered in trust like the Ingonyama Trust under the name of traditional leaders to the respective communities.\n\nIn February 2018, the Parliament of South Africa passed a motion to review the property ownership clause of the constitution, to allow for the expropriation of land, in the public interest, without compensation, which was widely supported within South Africa's ruling party on the grounds that the land was originally seized by whites without just compensation. South African officials argue the land reform will be different than Zimbabwe's failed land reforms in that South Africa's plan is \"constitutional\" and \"subject to laws and the constitution,\" unlike Zimbabwe's process which was overseen by dictator Robert Mugabe.\n\nIn August 2018, the South African government began the process of taking two white-owned farmlands by filing papers seeking to acquire the farms via eminent domain for one-tenth of their estimated value, (which in one case is based on possible value when the farm is developed into an eco-estate). According to a 2017 government audit, 72 percent of the nation's private farmland is owned by white people, who make up 9 percent of the population. The organization Afriforum claim that 24% of South African land is owned by the state and 34,5% is owned by black people.\n\nVarious researchers have identified various challenges facing land and agrarian reform in South Africa. The following are amongst the challenges as identified by and the Department of Rural Development and Land Reform (2008):\n\nUnresolved land claims, which are largely rural claims, are mostly affected by a number of challenges such as:\n\nAs of 2016 the South African government has pumped more than R60bn into land reform projects since 1994. Despite this investment, the land reform programme has not stimulated development in the targeted rural areas. A report by the South African Government's Financial and Fiscal Commission shows that land reform as a mechanism for agricultural development and job creation has failed. A survey by the commission in Limpopo province, KwaZulu-Natal and the Eastern Cape found that most land reform farms show little or no agricultural activity; the land reform beneficiaries earn little to no income, and the majority of these beneficiaries seek work on surrounding commercial farms instead of actively farming their own land. Where farming is taking place on land reform farms, these farms operate below their full agricultural potential and are mainly used for subsistence agriculture. On average, crop production had decreased by 79% since conversion to land reform. In the three provinces surveyed, job losses averaged 84%, with KwaZulu-Natal suffering a 94% job haemorrhage.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6962487", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6962487", "title": "List of terrorist attacks in Damascus", "text": "List of terrorist attacks in Damascus\n\nThis is a list of terror attacks in Damascus within modern Syria (after independence in 1946).\n\nOn Friday night, August 5, 1949, several hand grenades were thrown into the Menarsha Synagogue in Damascus. 12 Jews, eight of them children, were killed and about 30 others injured. The attack was timed to coincide with the Lausanne Conference, following the armistice agreement which was signed between Israel and Syria on July 20, 1949.\n\nThe deadliest bombings were executed in Damascus and surrounding areas in 1986. The events caused 144 fatalities, and were blamed by the Syrian authorities upon Iraqi Ba'athist agents, though other alleged perpetrators, like the Muslim Brotherhood, were proposed.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48469580", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48469580", "title": "Ministry of Education (Saudi Arabia)", "text": "Ministry of Education (Saudi Arabia)\n\nThe Ministry of Education (MOE; ) is a ministry of Saudi Arabia.\nAs of December 2015, Dr. Ahmed bin Mohammad Al-Issa is the minister. Headquartered in Riyadh, it oversees primary, secondary, and higher education.\n\nIn 1926, Sultan of Nejd Abdul Aziz Ibn Saud annexed Kingdom of Hejaz and dissolved the government of Hijaz as well as the Sultanate of Nejd and established the Kingdom of Nejd and Hejaz with running a dual monarchy. King Abdul Aziz Al-Saud established the Council for Knowledge which focused on education in Hejaz region.\nIn 1953, King Saud bin Abdul Aziz Al-Saud established and merged the previous Directorate of Knowledge to Ministry of Knowledge and appointed the then Prince Fahd bin Abdul Aziz Al-Saud as the Minister on December 24, 1953. In 1960, Crown Prince Faisal bin Abdul Aziz Al-Saud established General Presidency for Girls’ Education. In 2002, King Fahd bin Abdul Aziz Al-Saud issued a royal decree which merged General Presidency for Girls’ Education to the Ministry of Knowledge and the Ministry was renamed as Ministry of Education in 2003.\nIn September 2018, Ministry of Education and the Arizona State University partnered with each other in order to launch Building Leadership for Change Through School Immersion program which would commence from February 2019.\n\n"}
{"id": "53948284", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53948284", "title": "Ministry of Land Defence", "text": "Ministry of Land Defence\n\nMinistry of Land Defence () was in a broad sense, one of the eight ministries, in which the Swedish government administration was divided into. Its head was called Minister of War. The Ministry of Land Defence Department was established on 16 May 1840 and was merged with the Ministry for Naval Affairs into the newly established Ministry of Defence on 30 June 1920.\n\nThe Ministry of Land Defence was established in connection with the ministry reform in 1840. The cases, previously handled by the War Office (\"Krigsexpeditionen\"), were now divided between the Ministry of Land Defence and the Ministry for Naval Affairs. The Ministry of Land Defence's first cabinet meeting day was on 19 May 1840. According to the Royal Decree concerning the distribution of cases between the ministries on 16 May 1840 (SFS 1840 No. 14), the following cases sorted under the Ministry of Land Defence:\n\nCases relating to the organization and maintenance of the land defence, as well as the staff, the disposition of funds and equipment to the land defence, the construction and maintenance of fortifications, educational institutions, church and medical affairs, pension and charity facilities for the land army and associated staff; the Allotment system and \"Roteringsverket\" for the army; questions about commanding land troops for service or use for the necessary public works; the care of homes and buildings of the land defence, and The Crown's additional insight into the use of artillery foundry (\"styckebruk\"), the rifle factories and the gunpowder manufacturing; questions concerning telegraph arrangements (the telegraphic arrangements here means the military optical telegraph) in Sweden, with the exception of the individual needs of the Swedish Navy. In addition came the so-called Command Objectives (\"Kommandomålen\"), i.e. those matters of generally less importance which were determined by the king as Supreme Commander of Sweden's military force.\n\nThese cases were settled, in accordance with §15 of the Instrument of Government for the Ministry of Land Defence's concern, by the King, following presentation by the head of the Ministry of Land Defence, and in attendance only by him. The Command Objectives (\"Kommandomålen\") mainly concerned the Swedish Army's weapons exercises, schools, training courses, personnel accounts, service conditions, regulations, etc. During the period up to the issue of the renewed ministry statute in 1900, the ministry was liberated from some of the often complex cases relating to the gradual modifications of the allotment system. Following the decommissioning of the allotment system by the new army order in 1901, only the cases relating to its decommissioning remained. Until the Ministry of Land Defence's merging into the Ministry of Defence in 1920, some significant changes in the ministry's area of affairs did not take place. In 1920, the ministry's all cases were transferred to the new ministry. For preparing these cases, the head of the ministry had a department of the Royal Majesty's Chancery (\"Kunglig Majestäts kansli\"), which consisted of one permanent undersecretary, two deputy directors (\"kansliråd\") and directors (\"byråchef\"), three office secretaries, one registrar and an unspecified number of extra officials (assistants).\n\nUnder the Ministry of Land Defence sorted government agencies such as: the Military Office (\"Kommandoexpedition\") of the Ministry of Land Defence and the Royal Swedish Army Materiel Administration. The ministry also belonged to the army with its \"Generalitet\", the General Staff, the regiments and the corps, the Commendant Staff (\"Kommendantskapen\"), the Royal Swedish Army Staff College, the Artillery and Engineering College, the Royal Military Academy, the Royal Swedish Academy of War Sciences and other military education and training institutions, the subordinate ordnance, ammunition and rifle stores of the Royal Swedish Army Materiel Administration, the investigative offices in Stockholm and at Karlsborg, the Fortification Commissariat (\"Fästningsintendenturen\") in Stockholm, the State Warehouse Agency (\"Magasinsstaten\") in Stockholm with the Crown Bakery (\"Kronobageriet\"), the Carl Gustafs Stads Gevärsfaktori, Marieberg's Ammunition Factory, Fortification Treasurers and custodians, the Potassium Nitrate Maker's School (\"Salpetersjuderiskolan\"), the Discipline Company at Karlsborg, the garrison hospitals in Stockholm and at Karlsborg, as well as all the foundations of the land defence.\n\nAs a result of the act on the state ministries on 19 June 1919, the Ministry of Land Defence and the Ministry for Naval Affairs were merged into a new ministry, the Ministry of Defence, from 1 July 1920.\n\nDuring the years 1840-1851, the Ministry of Land Defence was, like the Ministry for Naval Affairs, located in the \"Stenbockska palatset\" at Birger Jarls torg 4. During this time, however, the Military Office (\"Kommandoexpeditionen\") was located in the so-called \"Preisiska huset\" at Drottninggatan 36. In 1851, the ministry moved to \"Mynthuset\" (the predecessor of the current \"Kanslihuset\"), where it remained until 1920.\n\nThe head of the ministry had officially the title of \"Council of State (\"Statsråd\") and head of the Ministry of Land Defence\", but was commonly referred to as the Minister of War.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14076526", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14076526", "title": "National Warning System", "text": "National Warning System\n\nThe National Warning System (NAWAS) is an automated telephone system used to convey warnings to United States-based federal, state and local governments, as well as the military and civilian population. The original mission of NAWAS was to warn of an imminent enemy attack or an actual accidental missile launch upon the United States. NAWAS still supports this mission but the emphasis is on natural and technological disasters. Organizations are able to disseminate and coordinate emergency alerts and warning messages through NAWAS and other public systems by means of the Integrated Public Alert and Warning System.\n\nNAWAS is operated and fully funded by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA).\n\nToday, the system consists of what is essentially a 2200+ telephone party line. The phone instruments are designed to provide protection for lightning strikes so they may be used during storms. The interconnecting lines provide some protection by avoiding local telephone switches. This ensures they are available even when the local system is down or overloaded. NAWAS has major terminals at each state Emergency Operations Center and State Emergency Management Facility. Other secondary terminals include local emergency management agencies, National Weather Service field offices and Public-safety answering points (PSAPs).\n\nNAWAS is used to disseminate warning information concerning natural and technological disasters to approximately 2200 warning points throughout the continental United States, Alaska, Hawaii and the Virgin Islands. This information includes acts of terrorism including Weapons of Mass Destruction (WMD) after aircraft incidents/accidents, earthquakes, floods, hurricanes, nuclear incidents/accidents, severe thunderstorms, tornadoes, tsunamis and winter storms/blizzards. NAWAS allows issuance of warnings to all stations nationwide or to selected stations as dictated by the situation. \n\nWhen the NAWAS is not being used for emergency traffic/tests, State and local government personnel are encouraged to use it for official business.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "359542", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=359542", "title": "Paul R. Ehrlich", "text": "Paul R. Ehrlich\n\nPaul Ralph Ehrlich (born May 29, 1932) is an American biologist, best known for his warnings about the consequences of population growth and limited resources. He is the Bing Professor of Population Studies of the Department of Biology of Stanford University and president of Stanford's Center for Conservation Biology.\n\nEhrlich became well known for his controversial 1968 book \"The Population Bomb\", which asserted that the world's human population would soon increase to the point where mass starvation ensued. Among the solutions he suggested in that book was population control, to be used in his opinion if voluntary methods were to fail. Ehrlich has been criticized for his opinions; for example, Ronald Bailey termed Ehrlich an \"irrepressible doomster\". However, Carl Haub observed that Ehrlich's warnings had encouraged governments to change their policies to avert disaster. Ehrlich has acknowledged that some of what he predicted has not occurred, but maintains that his predictions about disease and climate change were essentially correct, and that human overpopulation is a major problem.\n\nEhrlich was born in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, the son of William Ehrlich and Ruth (Rosenberg) Ehrlich, liberal Jews. His father was a shirt salesman, his mother a Greek and Latin scholar and public school teacher. Ehrlich's mother's Reform-Jewish German ancestors arrived in the United States in the 1840s, and his paternal grandparents immigrated there later from the Galician and Romanian part of the Austrian Empire. During his childhood his family moved to Maplewood, New Jersey, where he attended high school.\n\nEhrlich earned a bachelor's degree in zoology from the University of Pennsylvania in 1953, an M.A. from the University of Kansas in 1955, and a Ph.D. from the University of Kansas in 1957, supervised by the prominent bee researcher Charles Duncan Michener (the title of his dissertation: \"The Morphology, Phylogeny and Higher Classification of the Butterflies (Lepidoptera: Papilionoidea)\"). During his studies he participated with surveys of insects in the areas of the Bering Sea and Canadian Arctic, and then with a National Institutes of Health fellowship, investigated the genetics and behavior of parasitic mites. In 1959 he joined the faculty at Stanford University, being promoted to professor of biology in 1966. By training he is an entomologist specializing in Lepidoptera (butterflies); he published a major paper about the evolution of plants and insects. \nHe was appointed to the Bing Professorship in 1977.\n\nHe is president of the Center for Conservation Biology at Stanford University. He is a fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science, the United States National Academy of Sciences, the American Academy of Arts and Sciences and the American Philosophical Society.\n\nA lecture that Ehrlich gave on the topic of overpopulation at the Commonwealth Club of California was broadcast by radio in April 1967. The success of the lecture caused further publicity, and the suggestion from David Brower the executive director of the environmentalist Sierra Club, and Ian Ballantine of Ballantine Books to write a book concerning the topic. Ehrlich and his wife, Anne Ehrlich, collaborated on the book, \"The Population Bomb\", but the publisher insisted that a single author be credited.\n\nAlthough Ehrlich was not the first to warn about population issues – concern had been widespread during the 1950s and 1960s – his charismatic and media-savvy methods helped publicize the topic.\n\nThe original edition of \"The Population Bomb\" began with this statement: \"The battle to feed all of humanity is over. In the 1970s hundreds of millions of people will starve to death in spite of any crash programs embarked upon now. At this late date nothing can prevent a substantial increase in the world death rate ...\" Ehrlich argued that the human population was too great, and that while the extent of disaster could be mitigated, humanity could not prevent severe famines, the spread of disease, social unrest, and other negative consequences of overpopulation. By the end of the 1970s, this prediction proved to be incorrect. However, he continued to argue that societies must take strong action to decrease population growth in order to mitigate future disasters, both ecological and social.\n\nIn the book Ehrlich presented a number of \"scenarios\" detailing possible future events, some of which have been used as examples of errors in the years since. Of these scenarios, Ehrlich has said that although, \"we clearly stated that they were not predictions and that 'we can be sure that none of them will come true as stated,’ (p. 72) – their failure to occur is often cited as a failure of prediction. In honesty, the scenarios were way off, especially in their timing (we underestimated the resilience of the world system). But they did deal with future issues that people in 1968 should have been thinking about.\" Ehrlich further states that he still endorses the main thesis of the book, and that its message is as apt now as it was in 1968.\n\nEhrlich's opinions have evolved over time, and he has proposed different solutions to the problem of overpopulation. In \"Population Bomb\" he wrote, \"We must have population control at home, hopefully through a system of incentives and penalties, but by compulsion if voluntary methods fail. We must use our political power to push other countries into programs which combine agricultural development and population control.\" Voluntary measures he has endorsed include the easiest possible availability of birth control and abortion. In 1967 he had expressed his belief that aid should only be given to those countries that were not considered to be \"hopeless\" to feed their own populations.\n\nIn their sequel to \"The Population Bomb\", the Ehrlichs wrote about how the world's growing population dwarfs the Earth's capacity to sustain current living standards. The book calls for action to confront population growth and the ensuing crisis:\nIn this paper, the Ehrlichs discuss the 'optimal size' for human population, given current technological realities. They refer to establishing \"social policies to influence fertility rates.\"\n\nDuring a 2004 interview, Ehrlich answered questions about the predictions he made in \"The Population Bomb\". He acknowledged that some of what he had published had not occurred, but reaffirmed his basic opinion that overpopulation is a major problem. He noted that, \"Fifty-eight academies of science said that same thing in 1994, as did the world scientists' warning to humanity in the same year. My view has become depressingly mainline!\" Ehrlich also stated that 600 million people were very hungry, billions were under-nourished, and that his predictions about disease and climate change were essentially correct. Retrospectively, Ehrlich believes that \"The Population Bomb\" was \"way too optimistic\".\n\nIn a 2008 discussion hosted by the website \"Salon\", Paul Ehrlich has become more critical of the United States specifically, claiming that it should control its population and consumption as an example to the rest of the world. He has disavowed some of what he said in \"The Population Bomb\". He still thinks that governments should discourage people from having more than two children, suggesting, for example a greater tax rate for larger families.\n\nIn 2011, as the world's population passed the seven billion mark Ehrlich has argued that the next two billion people on Earth would cause more damage than the previous two billion because we are now increasingly having to resort to using more marginal and environmentally damaging resources. As of 2013, Ehrlich continues to perform policy research concerning population and resource issues, with an emphasis upon endangered species, cultural evolution, environmental ethics, and the preservation of genetic resources. Along with Dr. Gretchen Daily, he has performed work in countryside biogeography; that is, the study of making human-disturbed areas hospitable to biodiversity. His research group at Stanford University examines extensively natural populations of the Bay checkerspot butterfly (\"Euphydryas editha bayensis\"). The population-related disasters Ehrlich predicted have largely failed to materialize, with population growth rates slowing and new food production technologies increasing the food supply faster than the population. Ehrlich endorses his general thesis that the human population is too large, posing a direct threat to human survival and the environment of the planet.\n\nCritics have disputed Ehrlich's main thesis about overpopulation and its effects on the environment and human society, and his solutions, as well as some of his specific predictions made since the late 1960s. One criticism concerns Ehrlich's allegedly alarmist and sensational statements and inaccurate \"predictions\". Ronald Bailey of \"Reason Magazine\" has termed him an \"irrepressible doomster ... who, as far as I can tell, has never been right in any of his forecasts of imminent catastrophe.\" On the first Earth Day in 1970, he warned that \"[i]n ten years all important animal life in the sea will be extinct. Large areas of coastline will have to be evacuated because of the stench of dead fish.\" In a 1971 speech, he predicted that: \"By the year 2000 the United Kingdom will be simply a small group of impoverished islands, inhabited by some 70 million hungry people.\" \"If I were a gambler,\" Professor Ehrlich concluded before boarding an airplane, \" I would take even money that England will not exist in the year 2000.\" When this scenario did not occur, he responded that \"When you predict the future, you get things wrong. How wrong is another question. I would have lost if I had had taken the bet. However, if you look closely at England, what can I tell you? They're having all kinds of problems, just like everybody else.\" Ehrlich wrote in \"The Population Bomb\" that, \"India couldn't possibly feed two hundred million more people by 1980.\"\n\nCarl Haub of the Population Reference Bureau has replied that it was precisely the alarmist rhetoric that prevented the catastrophes of which Ehrlich warned. According to Haub \"It makes no sense that Ehrlich is now criticized as being alarmist because his dire warnings did not, in the main, come true. But it was because of such warnings from Ehrlich and others that countries took action to avoid potential disaster.\" During the 1960s and 70s when Ehrlich made his most alarming warnings, there was a widespread belief among experts that population growth presented an extremely serious threat to the future of human civilization, although differences existed regarding the severity of the situation, and how to decrease it.\n\nDan Gardner argues that Ehrlich has been insufficiently forthright in acknowledging errors he made, while being intellectually dishonest or evasive in taking credit for things he claims he got \"right\". For example, he rarely acknowledges the mistakes he made in predicting material shortages, massive death tolls from starvation (as many as one billion in the publication \"Age of Affluence\") or regarding the disastrous effects on specific countries. Meanwhile, he is happy to claim credit for \"predicting\" the increase of AIDS or global warming. However, in the case of disease, Ehrlich had predicted the increase of a disease based on overcrowding, or the weakened immune systems of starving people, so it is \"a stretch to see this as forecasting the emergence of AIDS in the 1980s.\" Similarly, global warming was one of the scenarios that Ehrlich described, so claiming credit for it, while disavowing responsibility for failed scenarios is a double standard. Gardner believes that Ehrlich is displaying classical signs of cognitive dissonance, and that his failure to acknowledge obvious errors of his own judgement render his current thinking suspect.\n\nBarry Commoner has criticized Ehrlich's 1970 statement that \"When you reach a point where you realize further efforts will be futile, you may as well look after yourself and your friends and enjoy what little time you have left. That point for me is 1972.\" Gardner has criticized Ehrlich for endorsing the strategies proposed by William and Paul Paddock in their book \"Famine 1975!\". They had proposed a system of \"triage\" that would end food aid to \"hopeless\" countries such as India and Egypt. In \"Population Bomb\", Ehrlich suggests that \"there is no rational choice except to adopt some form of the Paddocks' strategy as far as food distribution is concerned.\" Had this strategy been implemented for countries such as India and Egypt, which were reliant on food aid at that time, they would almost certainly have suffered famines. Instead, both Egypt and India have greatly increased their food production and now feed much larger populations without reliance on food aid.\n\nAnother group of critics, generally of the political left, argues that Ehrlich emphasizes overpopulation too much as a problem in itself instead of distribution of resources. Barry Commoner argued that Ehrlich emphasized overpopulation too much as the source of environmental problems, and that his proposed solutions were politically unacceptable because of the coercion that they implied, and because they would cost poor people disproportionately. He argued that technological, and above all social development would result in a natural decrease of both population growth and environmental damage. Ehrlich denies any type of racism, and has argued that if his policy ideas were implemented properly they would not be repressive.\n\nIn a 2018 interview with \"The Guardian\", Ehrlich advocated for an \"unprecedented redistribution of wealth\" in order to mitigate the problem of overconsumption of resources by the wealthy, but said \"the rich who now run the global system – that hold the annual ‘world destroyer’ meetings in Davos – are unlikely to let it happen.\"\n\nJulian Simon, a cornucopian economist, argued that overpopulation is not a problem in itself, and that humanity will adapt to changing conditions. Simon argued that eventually human creativity will improve living standards, and that most resources were replaceable. Simon stated that over hundreds of years, the prices of virtually all commodities have decreased significantly and persistently. Ehrlich termed Simon the proponent of a \"space-age cargo cult\" of economists convinced that human creativity and ingenuity would create substitutes for scarce resources and reasserted the idea that population growth was outstripping the earth's supplies of food, fresh water and minerals. This exchange resulted in the Simon–Ehrlich wager, a bet about the trend of prices for resources during a ten-year period that was made with Simon in 1980. Ehrlich was allowed to choose ten commodities that he predicted would become scarce and thus increase in price. Ehrlich chose mostly metals, and lost the bet, as their average price decreased by about 30% in the next 10 years. Simon and Ehrlich could not agree about the terms of a second bet.\n\nEhrlich has argued that humanity has simply deferred the disaster by the use of more intensive agricultural techniques, such as those introduced during the Green Revolution. Ehrlich claims that increasing populations and affluence are increasingly stressing the global environment, due to such factors as loss of biodiversity, overfishing, global warming, urbanization, chemical pollution and competition for raw materials. He maintains that due to growing global incomes, reducing consumption and human population is critical to protecting the environment and maintaining living standards, and that current rates of growth are still too great for a sustainable future.\n\nEhrlich was one of the initiators of the group Zero Population Growth (renamed Population Connection) in 1968, along with Richard Bowers and Charles Remington. In 1971, Ehrlich was elected to the Common Cause National Governing Board. He and his wife Anne were part of the board of advisers of the Federation for American Immigration Reform until 2003. He is currently a patron of Population Matters, (formerly known as the Optimum Population Trust).\n\nConsistent with his concern about the impact of pollution and in response to a doctoral dissertation by his student Edward Goth III, Ehrlich wrote in 1977 that, “Fluorides have been shown to concentrate in food chains, and evidence suggesting a potential for significant ecological effects is accumulating.”\n\nEhrlich has spoken at conferences in Israel on the issue of desertification. He has argued that \"True Zionists should have small families\".\n\nEhrlich has been married to Anne H. Ehrlich (born Anne Fitzhugh Howland, 1933) since December 1954; the two are parents to one child, Lisa Marie.\n\nEhrlich has said he has had a vasectomy.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "555560", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=555560", "title": "Piers Morgan", "text": "Piers Morgan\n\nPiers Stefan Pughe-Morgan (; né O'Meara; born 30 March 1965) is an English journalist and television presenter currently working on the ITV Breakfast programme \"Good Morning Britain\". \n\nMorgan began his career in Fleet Street as a writer and editor for several tabloid papers, including \"The Sun\", \"News of the World\", and the \"Daily Mirror\". In 1994, aged 29, he was appointed editor of the \"News of the World\" by Rupert Murdoch, which made him the youngest editor of a British national newspaper in more than half a century. He later edited the \"Daily Mirror\", and was in charge during the period that the paper was implicated in the phone hacking scandal. In 2011 Morgan denied having ever hacked a phone or \"to my knowledge published any story obtained from the hacking of a phone\". In 2012 he was heavily criticised in the findings of the Leveson Inquiry, when the chair Brian Leveson stated that comments made in Morgan's testimony about phone hacking were \"utterly unpersuasive\" and \"clearly prove ... that he was aware that it was taking place in the press as a whole and that he was sufficiently unembarrassed by what was criminal behaviour that he was prepared to joke about it\".\n\nOn television, he hosted \"Piers Morgan Live\" on CNN from 2011 to 2014, replacing \"Larry King Live\" in the timeslot following King's retirement. He was a judge on \"America's Got Talent\" and \"Britain's Got Talent\". In 2008, Morgan won the seventh season of the US \"Celebrity Apprentice\". In the UK, he presents \"Piers Morgan's Life Stories\" (since 2009) has presented \"Good Morning Britain\" since 2015. Morgan has written eight books, including four volumes of memoirs.\n\nPiers Morgan was born in 1965 in Newick, Sussex, England as Piers Stefan O'Meara, the son of Vincent Eamonn O'Meara, an Irish dentist originally from County Offaly, and Gabrielle Georgina Sybille (née Oliver), who raised her son as a Catholic. With regard to his religious views, Morgan still identifies as a Catholic due to his mother's influence, and believes in an afterlife, but does not \"go to Confession, probably because it would take me too long\". He has a brother, Jeremy, who is two years older.\n\nHis father died when Morgan was 11 months old; his mother later married Glynne Pughe-Morgan, a Welsh publican later in the meat distribution business, and he took his stepfather's surname. He was at the independent Cumnor House prep school between the ages of seven and 13, then Chailey School, a comprehensive secondary school in Chailey, near Lewes, East Sussex. After nine months at Lloyd's of London, Morgan studied journalism at Harlow College. Morgan joined the Surrey and South London Newspaper Group in 1985, working as a reporter on the \"South London News\", and the \"Streatham and Tooting News\".\n\nMorgan began to work as a freelance at \"The Sun\" in 1988, at this point dropping his double-barrelled name. He told Hunter Davies in December 1994 that he was personally recruited by \"Sun\" editor Kelvin MacKenzie to work on the newspaper's show business column \"Bizarre\", his first high-profile post. Although he was not a fan of pop music, he was considered skilled at self-publicity and became the column's main writer. \"I became the Friend of the Stars, a rampant egomaniac, pictured all the time with famous people – Madonna, Stallone, Bowie, Paul McCartney, hundreds of them. It was shameless, as they didn't know me from Adam\", he told Davies.\n\nIn January 1994, he became editor of the \"News of the World\" after being appointed to the job by Rupert Murdoch. Initially an acting editor, he was confirmed in the summer, becoming at 29 the youngest national newspaper editor in more than half a century. He quickly gained notice for his prying, forthright style and lack of sympathy for celebrities' privacy, claiming that they could not manipulate the media to further their own ends without accepting the consequences of a two-way deal.\n\nMorgan left this post in 1995 shortly after publishing photographs of Catherine Victoria Lockwood, then wife of Charles, Earl Spencer, leaving an addictive disorders clinic in Surrey. This action ran against the editors' code of conduct, a misdemeanour for which the Press Complaints Commission upheld a complaint against Morgan. Murdoch was reported as having said that \"the boy went too far\" and publicly distanced himself from the story. Fearful of a privacy law action if he had not criticised one of his employees, Murdoch is said to have apologised to Morgan in private.\n\nThe incident was reported to have contributed to Morgan's decision to leave for the \"Daily Mirror\" editorship. Morgan's autobiography \"\" states that he left the \"News of the World\" for the \"Mirror\" of his own choice. It asserts he was an admirer of former prime minister Margaret Thatcher for most of her period of office making the appointment surprising as the \"Mirror\" is a Labour supporting title.\n\nAs editor of the \"Daily Mirror\", Morgan was forced to apologise on television for the headline (rendered in upper case) \"Achtung Surrender! For You Fritz Ze Euro Championship Is Over\" on 25 June 1996, a day before England met Germany in a semi-final of the Euro '96 football championships.\n\nA £16 million package of investment in the title was rolled out from January, including the dropping of \"Daily\" from the masthead in February, which was later reversed. Roy Greenslade wrote in August 1999 that Morgan's editorship \"has made a huge difference: his enormous enthusiasm, determination and focus is a major plus\".\n\nMorgan was the subject of an investigation in 2000 after Suzy Jagger wrote an article for \"The Daily Telegraph\" revealing that he had bought £20,000 worth of shares in the computer company Viglen soon before the \"Mirror\" 's \"City Slickers\" column tipped Viglen as a good buy. Morgan was found by the Press Complaints Commission to have breached the Code of Conduct on financial journalism, but kept his job. The \"City Slickers\" columnists, Anil Bhoyrul and James Hipwell, were both found to have committed further breaches of the Code and were sacked before the inquiry concluded. Further enquiry by the Department of Trade and Industry in 2004 cleared Morgan of any charges. On 7 December 2005, Bhoyrul and Hipwell were convicted of conspiracy to breach the Financial Services Act. During the trial it emerged that Morgan had bought £67,000 worth of Viglen shares, emptying his bank account and investing under his (first) wife's name, too.\n\nThe \"Mirror\" attempted to move mid-market in 2002, eschewing the more trivial stories of show-business and gossip, but sales declined. In the wake of the Abu Ghraib torture scandal, Morgan was fired as Editor of the \"Daily Mirror\" \"with immediate effect\" on 14 May 2004, after refusing to apologise to Sly Bailey, then head of Trinity Mirror, for authorising the newspaper's publication of photographs which had been shown to be false. These were alleged to show Iraqi prisoners being abused by British Army soldiers from the Queen's Lancashire Regiment. When, within days the photographs were shown to be crude fakes, under the headline \"SORRY..WE WERE HOAXED\", the \"Mirror\" responded that it had fallen victim to a \"calculated and malicious hoax\" and apologised for the publication of the photographs. However, Morgan has refused to admit that the photographs were faked, and has stated that the abuse shown in the photographs is similar to the sort of abuse which was happening in the British Army in Iraq at the time.\n\nIn partnership with Matthew Freud, he gained ownership in May 2005, of \"Press Gazette\", a media trade publication together with its \"cash cow\", the British Press Awards, in a deal worth £1 million. This ownership was cited as one of the reasons many major newspapers boycotted the 2006 awards. \"Press Gazette\" entered administrative receivership toward the end of 2006, before being sold to a trade buyer.\n\n\"First News\" was launched by Morgan on 4 May 2006. A weekly paper aimed at seven to 14-year-olds, he claimed at its launch that the paper was to be \"Britain's first national newspaper for children\". Morgan was editorial director at \"First News\", responsible for bringing in celebrity involvement. He referred to the role as \"editorial overlord and frontman\".\n\nMorgan was filmed falling off a Segway, breaking three ribs, in 2007. Simon Cowell and others made much of Morgan's previous comment in 2003, in a \"Mirror\" headline after former U.S. President George W. Bush fell off a Segway: \"You'd have to be an idiot to fall off wouldn't you, Mr President\".\n\nIn 2012, following the revelation of Jimmy Savile's sexual abuse against children, Morgan claimed to have \"never met\" Savile in his lifetime – although it was pointed out that in a 2009 piece by Morgan in \"The Mail on Sunday\" \"Night & Day\" magazine claiming that \"As I left, Jimmy Savile came up to me. 'Your TV shows are BRILLIANT!. he exclaimed. ... I've always loved Jimmy Savile.\"\n\nHe became the editor-at-large of the \"Mail Online\" website's US operation in September 2014 and Morgan writes several columns a week. He also writes a weekly diary for the \"Mail on Sunday\" \"Event\" magazine, having also written one for its predecessor \"Live\".\n\nMorgan's career expanded into television presenting before he left the \"Daily Mirror\". He presented a three-part television documentary series for the BBC titled \"The Importance of Being Famous\" (2003), about fame and the manner in which celebrities are covered by modern media. At the annual Pride of Britain Awards broadcast on ITV, Morgan chaired a panel of prominent people who had chosen the recipients of the awards from 1999 to 2006.\n\nHe co-hosted a current affairs interview show on Channel 4 with Amanda Platell, \"Morgan and Platell\". Morgan and Platell were put together because of their opposing political viewpoints; Platell interrogated guests from the right wing, Morgan from the left wing. The show was dropped after three series reputedly because of poor viewing figures, although the chairman of Channel 4 Luke Johnson was reported not to like the programme.\n\nThroughout 2006, Morgan appeared as a judge on the television show \"America's Got Talent\" alongside Brandy Norwood and David Hasselhoff on NBC. Morgan was chosen by Simon Cowell as a replacement for himself because of the conditions of his \"American Idol\" contract. Morgan appeared as a celebrity contestant on \"Comic Relief Does The Apprentice\" in 2007, to raise money for the BBC charity telethon Comic Relief. After his team lost, Morgan was selected by Sir Alan Sugar as the contestant to be fired.\n\nAlso in 2007, Morgan appeared as a judge for the second season of \"America's Got Talent\" and also appeared as a judge on \"Britain's Got Talent\" on ITV, alongside Amanda Holden and Simon Cowell. He also presented \"You Can't Fire Me, I'm Famous\" on BBC One. He fronted a three-part documentary about Sandbanks for ITV entitled \"Piers Morgan on Sandbanks\" in January 2008.\n\nMorgan signed a two-year \"golden handcuffs\" deal with ITV in May 2008, reportedly worth £2 million per year. As part of the deal, he would continue as a judge on \"Britain's Got Talent\" for at least two more series and front a new chat show. He also made some interview specials, plus three more documentaries from various countries. Morgan's golden handcuffs deal was the first signing by ITV's new director of television, Peter Fincham. On 8 September 2008, Morgan featured in \"The Dark Side of Fame with Piers Morgan\", produced by BBC Scotland.\n\nHe returned to ITV in February 2009, with the three-part series, \"Piers Morgan On...\", which saw him visit Dubai, Monte Carlo and Hollywood. The programme returned for a second series in 2010 when Morgan visited Las Vegas in one episode.\n\nHis show, \"Piers Morgan's Life Stories\", began on ITV in 2009 with Sharon Osbourne as the subject of the first episode. Other guests on the programme included Cheryl and the then Prime Minister Gordon Brown.\n\nCNN announced on 8 September 2010 that Morgan would replace Larry King in the network's evening line-up with his show, \"Piers Morgan Live\", beginning on 17 January 2011. After poor ratings, CNN announced that the show was to be axed. It was cancelled in February 2014 and ended its run in March 2014. Commenting on the viewing figures, Morgan said that he was \"a British guy debating American cultural issues, including guns, which has been very polarizing, and there is no doubt that there are many in the audience who are tired of me banging on about it.\"\n\nFrom 13 April to 17 April 2015, Morgan guest-hosted five episodes of \"Good Morning Britain\" on ITV and became a permanent co-host in November 2015, appearing alongside Susanna Reid and Charlotte Hawkins. \"You can't help but go into battle with him every morning\", Reid has said of her colleague with whom she has clashed.\n\nFrom 2016–2017, Morgan interviewed female murderers on the TV series \"Killer Women with Piers Morgan\". He also presented \"Serial Killer with Piers Morgan\", as part of the 2017 Crime & Punishment season on ITV. In October 2018, Morgan appeared as a cameo on Hollyoaks.\n\nMorgan was the winner of the U.S. celebrity version of \"The Apprentice\", in 2008. He was eventually the overall winner, being named Celebrity Apprentice by host Donald Trump on 27 March, ahead of fellow finalist, American country music star Trace Adkins, and having raised substantially more cash than all the other contestants combined. Morgan was called \"ruthless, arrogant, evil and obnoxious\" by Trump in the final.\n\nMorgan predicted Trump's election as President of the United States and has described himself as a close personal friend of Trump. Morgan interviewed Donald Trump on \"Good Morning Britain\" in March 2016.\n\nMorgan appeared on ITV's \"Loose Women\" panel show in late January 2017, and was challenged to repudiate Donald Trump. He refused to do so, despite stating that he disagreed with him on many issues relating to gun control, climate change, abortion and the 'Muslim travel ban', saying that he found the principle of the ban understandable, but disagreed with \"the way [Trump] has gone about it\".\n\nNearly a fortnight later, on the American talk show \"Real Time with Bill Maher\", Morgan said \"There is no Muslim ban\", as \"85% of the world's Muslims are allowed in the country\". Another participant in the discussion, Australian comedian Jim Jefferies, immediately told him to \"fuck off\", adding in part \"Hitler didn't kill the Jews on the first day, he worked up to it\". After the novelist J. K. Rowling tweeted \"Yes, watching Piers Morgan being told to fuck off on live TV is *exactly* as satisfying as I'd always imagined\", the two began an exchange of words on the social media site.\n\nMorgan criticised Trump after Trump retweeted Jayda Fransen, deputy leader of the small right-wing party Britain First in late November 2017. He tweeted to Trump: \"What the hell are you doing retweeting a bunch of unverified videos by Britain First, a bunch of disgustingly racist far-right extremists? Please STOP this madness & undo your retweets\".\n\nIn January 2018, Morgan presented \"President Trump – The Piers Morgan Interview\" for ITV, which many thought of as \"sycophantic\" and a \"love-in\" for Trump. 88% of respondents to a \"Radio Times\" Twitter poll viewed Morgan as being not \"tough enough\" on Trump.\n\nMorgan interviewed Trump again in July 2018 during his official visit to the UK, this time on Air Force One during an internal flight, in a TV special entitled \"Piers, The President And Air Force One\".\n\nMorgan appeared as a guest on the satirical news quiz \"Have I Got News for You\" in an episode transmitted on 24 May 1996. In it, show regular Ian Hislop accused Morgan of having him followed and having his house watched. The conflict escalated and at one point the host, Angus Deayton, asked if they wished to go outside and have a fight. Later on, guest panellist Clive Anderson confronted Morgan commenting, \"the last time I was rude to you, you sent photographers to my doorstep the next day\", to which Piers Morgan retorted, \"You won't see them this time.\" The audience responded loudly in favour of Hislop. \"We're about to start exposing the moon-faced midget\", Morgan was quoted as saying in 2002, to which Hislop responded, \"all he's been offering for information about my private life is a £50 reward. My friends think that's not nearly enough.\"\n\nIn 2007, Hislop chose Morgan as one of his pet hates on \"Room 101\". In doing so, Hislop spoke of the history of animosity between himself and Morgan and revealed that after their exchange on \"Have I Got News For You\" (which was shown as a clip), Morgan's reporters were tasked with trying to get gossip on Hislop's private life (including phoning acquaintances of Hislop), and photographers were sent in case Hislop did anything untoward or embarrassing while in their presence. Neither the reporters nor the photographers succeeded. Hislop also revealed that Morgan had attempted to quell the feud in an article in \"The Mail on Sunday\", saying, \"The war is over. I'm officially calling an end to hostilities, at least from my end. I'm sure it won't stop him carrying on his 'Piers Moron' stuff\" (\"Private Eye\", the fortnightly satirical magazine which Hislop edits, regularly calls Morgan 'Piers Moron') Hislop, who was working on a World War I documentary at the time, responded by asking \"Is that an armistice or an unconditional surrender?\" Although Paul Merton – host of \"Room 101\" at the time and regular team captain alongside Hislop at \"Have I Got News For You\" – agreed to put Morgan into \"Room 101\", he then comically rejected Morgan as being \"too toxic\" for \"Room 101\".\n\nIn October 2003, journalist and television personality Jeremy Clarkson reportedly emptied a glass of water over Morgan during the last flight of Concorde for some photographs published in the \"Mirror\". In March 2004, at the British Press Awards, Clarkson punched Morgan three times during another argument. Morgan reported on a rapprochement with Clarkson in the epilogue of his book, \"Don't You Know Who I Am?\"\n\nOn 4 February 2014, transgender advocate Janet Mock appeared as a guest on \"Piers Morgan Live\" to discuss her memoir, \"Redefining Realness\". After the interview aired, Mock sent a series of tweets criticising Morgan for describing Mock as being \"formerly a man\". Morgan responded that he had \"never been treated in such a disgraceful manner\" by a guest. On 5 February, Mock appeared as a guest again to debate the dispute.\n\nMorgan strongly objected to the Women's March on Washington on 21 January 2017, the day after Trump's inauguration, describing protesters as \"rabid feminists\" and the multiple protests as being \"vacuous\". The actor Ewan McGregor disagreed with Morgan's statements on the women's march and pulled out of appearing on \"Good Morning Britain\" the following Tuesday after discovered Morgan would be interviewing him, along with Reid. Morgan accused McGregor of being a \"paedophile-loving hypocrite\" for his past support of Roman Polanski.\n\nOn 28 March 2012, MTV referred to the bad relations between Piers Morgan and Madonna, reporting that \"Morgan has apparently felt slighted over the years by Madonna ... he claims he was lied to by the singer's publicist\".\n\nIn September 2012, it was reported that Morgan had also banned actor Kelsey Grammer. Morgan himself claimed, \"Kelsey Grammer saw a photo of his ex-wife Camille in the open of our show and legged it.\" \"TVGuide\" reported, \"All plans were still a go for the segment until Grammer actually got in the hot seat and saw the footage the producers had planned to peg to the segment, including a picture of his ex-wife\". On 26 September 2012, Fox 11 Los Angeles reported that \"many say [it] was an ambush by Piers\". \"The Huffington Post\" reported that \"before the interview was scheduled, it was made clear that Grammer would answer all questions, including those about [his ex-wife]. His sole request was not to show any images of her.\"\n\nMorgan also banned actor Hugh Grant from his shows on CNN and ITV in May 2011 after Grant denigrated the tabloid press. On Twitter he responded: \"Hugh Grant is now banned, in perpetuity, from @PiersTonight and Life Stories and anything else I ever do. Tedious little man.\"\n\nDuring Morgan's tenure as editor, the \"Daily Mirror\" was advised by Steven Nott that voicemail interception was possible by means of a standard PIN code. Despite staff initially expressing enthusiasm for the story it did not appear in the paper, although it did subsequently feature in a \"South Wales Argus\" article and on BBC Radio 5 Live in October 1999. On 18 July 2011 Nott was visited by officers of Operation Weeting.\n\nHe came under criticism for his \"boasting\" about phone hacking from Conservative MP Louise Mensch, who has since apologised for these accusations.\n\nIn July 2011, in a sequence of articles, political blogger Paul Staines alleged that while editor of the \"Daily Mirror\" in 2002 Morgan published a story concerning the affair of Sven-Goran Eriksson and Ulrika Jonsson while knowing it to have been obtained by phone hacking.\n\nOn 20 December 2011, Morgan was a witness by satellite link from the United States at the Leveson Inquiry. While he said he had no reason to believe that phone hacking had occurred at the \"Mirror\" while he was in charge there, he admitted to hearing a recording of an answerphone message left by Paul McCartney for Heather Mills, but refused to \"discuss where that tape was played or who made [it] – it would compromise a source.\" Appearing as a witness at the same Inquiry on 9 February 2012, Mills was asked under oath if she had ever made a recording of Paul McCartney's phone call or had played it to Piers Morgan; she replied: \"Never\". She said that she had never authorised Morgan, or anybody, to access or listen to her voicemails. Mills told the inquiry that Morgan, \"a man that has written nothing but awful things about me for years\", would have relished telling the inquiry if she had played a personal voicemail message to him.\n\nOn 23 May 2012, \"Newsnight\" presenter Jeremy Paxman was a witness at the Leveson Inquiry. He recalled a lunch with the \"Mirror\" editor in September 2002 at which Morgan outlined the means of hacking into a mobile phone.\n\nOn 28 November 2012, the Channel 4 documentary \"Taking on the Tabloids\", fronted by actor and phone hacking victim Hugh Grant, showed footage from a 2003 interview with Morgan by the singer and phone hacking victim Charlotte Church, during which he explained to her how to avoid answerphone messages being listened to by journalists. He said: \"You can access ... voicemails by typing in a number. Now, are you really telling me that journalists aren’t going to do that?\"\n\nOn 29 November 2012, the official findings of the Leveson Inquiry were released, in which Lord Justice Leveson said that Morgan's testimony under oath on phone hacking was \"utterly unpersuasive\". He stated: \"[The] evidence does not establish that [Morgan] authorised the hacking of voicemails or that journalists employed by TMG [Trinity Mirror Group] were indulging in this practice ... What it does, however, clearly prove is that he was aware that it was taking place in the press as a whole and that he was sufficiently unembarrassed by what was criminal behaviour that he was prepared to joke about it.\"\nOn 6 December 2013, Morgan was interviewed, under caution, by police officers from Operation Weeting investigating phone hacking allegations at \"Mirror Group Newspapers\" during his tenure as editor.\n\nOn 24 September 2014, the Trinity Mirror publishing group admitted for the first time that some of its journalists had been involved in phone hacking and agreed to pay compensation to four people who sued for the alleged hacking of voicemails. Six other phone-hacking claims had already been settled. The BBC reported that it had seen legal papers showing that although the alleged hacking could have taken place as early as 1998, the bulk of the alleged wrongdoing took place in the early 2000s when Morgan was the \"Daily Mirror\" editor. The admissions by Trinity Mirror came whilst the London Metropolitan Police investigation into the phone hacking allegations was ongoing. Morgan has always denied any involvement in the practice.\n\nMorgan married Marion Shalloe, a hospital ward sister, in 1991. The couple had three sons, and divorced in 2008. In June 2010, he married his second wife, journalist Celia Walden, daughter of the former Conservative MP George Walden. Morgan announced in mid 2011 that the couple were expecting a child, and on 25 November 2011, Walden gave birth to Elise Morgan, her first child and Morgan's fourth.\n\nMorgan is a fan of Premier League football club Arsenal F.C. He was a consistent critic of former Arsenal manager Arsène Wenger and called for his sacking on many occasions. Speaking in defence of Wenger in 2015, former Arsenal goalkeeper Bob Wilson labelled Morgan an \"incredibly pompous individual\". When Arsenal midfielder Aaron Ramsey met Morgan on 26 April 2015, Ramsey refused to shake his hand due to the criticism he received from Morgan during the 2012–13 season. Morgan has responded by calling Ramsey 'whatshisname'.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14853000", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14853000", "title": "Police radio", "text": "Police radio\n\nPolice radio is a communications radio system used by law enforcement agencies all over the world.\n\nMany such systems are encrypted to prevent eavesdroppers from listening in.\n\nThe vast majority of economically developed countries police services have access to such equipment; also, in most countries, police cars have sets which are designed to receive calls from the control room, and respond. Also, small personal radios exist that allow each officer to carry one easily, as well as a large central room at the Police station which directs personnel to the location of emergency incidents. Portable police radios first appeared within the British police in 1969.\n\nIn Germany, it is illegal for private citizens to listen to the police radio, even if its unintentional. One can be sued with up to two years of prison or substantially fined.\n\nIn Norway, it is legal for private citizens to listen to the police radio, there are even streams available online.\n\nIt is an offence under the Wireless Telegraphy Act 2006 to listen to police radio in the UK. The move from open analogue to the encrypted digital Airwave system in the UK has made it practically impossible to just listen in to police radio.\n\nU.S state patrols, county sheriffs' offices, and municipal police departments often run their own systems in parallel, presenting interoperability problems. The FCC assigns licenses to these entities in the public safety (PP and PX) allotments of the spectrum. These include allocations in the lower portion of the VHF spectrum (around 39 - 45 MHz), highly susceptible to \"skip\" interference but still used by state highway patrols; the VHF \"hi-band\", from 150 to 160 MHz; and various UHF bands. Many systems still use conventional FM transmissions for most traffic; others are trunked analog or digital systems. Recently, there has been a move towards digital trunked systems, especially those based around the public-safety standard Project 25 format set by the Association of Public-Safety Communications Officials-International. A minority of other police radio systems, the largest examples being the Milwaukee Police Department and Pennsylvania State Police use the incompatible OpenSky format. TETRA, the standard in many European countries as well as other places in the world, is virtually unused in the United States.\n\nRecently, some states have begun to operate statewide radio networks with varying levels of participation from police on the county and city levels. Some of them are:\n\n\nIt is generally legal in the United States to listen to unencrypted police communications. However some states prohibit such listening within vehicles.\n\n"}
{"id": "623765", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=623765", "title": "President of the Council of Ministers", "text": "President of the Council of Ministers\n\nThe President of the Council of Ministers or sometimes Chairman (in English, sometimes called informally Prime Minister) is the most senior member of the cabinet in the executive branch of government. Some Presidents of the Council of Ministers are the heads of government.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18090857", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18090857", "title": "Protest camp", "text": "Protest camp\n\nProtest camps are physical camps that are set up by activists, to either provide a base for protest, or to delay, obstruct or prevent the focus of their protest by physically blocking it with the camp. They began in the 1920s and became famous in 1982 due to the publicity generated by the Greenham Common Women's Peace Camp in England.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1056688", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1056688", "title": "Real estate contract", "text": "Real estate contract\n\nA real estate contract is a contract between parties for the purchase and sale, exchange, or other conveyance of real estate. The sale of land is governed by the laws and practices of the jurisdiction in which the land is located. Real estate called leasehold estate is actually a rental of real property such as an apartment, and leases (rental contracts) cover such rentals since they typically do not result in recordable deeds. Freehold (\"More permanent\") conveyances of real estate are covered by real estate contracts, including conveying fee simple title, life estates, remainder estates, and freehold easements. Real estate contracts are typically bilateral contracts (i. e., agreed to by two parties) and should have the legal requirements specified by contract law in general and should also be in writing to be enforceable.\n\nIt is a legal requirement in all jurisdictions that contracts for the sale of land be in writing to be enforceable. The various \"Statute of frauds\" require contracts for the sale of land to be in writing. In South Africa, the \"Alienation of Land Act\" specifies that any agreement of sale of immovable property must be in writing. In Italy, each transfer of real estate must be registered in front of a notary public in writing.\n\nThe common practice is for an \"exchange of contracts\" to take place. This involves two copies of the contract of sale being signed, one copy of which is retained by each party. When the parties are together, both would usually sign both copies, one copy of which would be retained by each party, sometimes with a formal handing over of a copy from one party to the other. However, it is usually sufficient that only the copy retained by each party be signed by the other party only. This rule enables contracts to be \"exchanged\" by mail. Both copies of the contract of sale become binding only after each party is in possession of a copy of the contract signed by the other party—ie., the exchange is said to be \"complete\". An exchange by electronic means is generally insufficient for an exchange, unless the laws of the jurisdiction expressly validate such signatures.\n\nA contract for the sale of land must:\n\n\nNotarization by a notary public is normally not required for a real estate contract, but many recording offices require that a seller's or conveyor's signature on a deed be notarized to record the deed. The real estate contract is typically not recorded with the government, although statements or declarations of the price paid are commonly required to be submitted to the recorder's office.\n\nSometimes real estate contracts will provide for a lawyer review period of several days after the signing by the parties to check the provisions of the contract and counterpropose any that are unsuitable.\n\nIf there are any real estate brokers/agents brokering the sale, the buyer's agent will often fill in the blanks on a standard contract form for the buyer(s) and seller(s) to sign. The broker commonly gets such contract forms from a real estate association he/she belongs to. When both buyer and seller have agreed to the contract by signing it, the broker provides copies of the signed contract to the buyer and seller.\n\nAs may be the case with other contracts, real estate contracts may be formed by one party making an offer and another party accepting the offer. To be enforceable, the offers and acceptances must be in writing (Statute of Frauds, Common Law)and signed by the parties agreeing to the contract. Often, the party making the offer prepares a written real estate contract, signs it, and transmits it to the other party who would accept the offer by signing the contract. As with all other types of legal offers, the other party may accept the offer, reject it (in which case the offer is terminated), make a counteroffer (in which case the original offer is terminated), or not respond to the offer (in which case the offer terminates by the expiration date in it). Before the offer (or counteroffer) is accepted, the offering (or countering) party can withdraw it. A counteroffer may be countered with yet another offer, and a counteroffering process may go on indefinitely between the parties.\n\nTo be enforceable, a real estate contract must possess original signatures by the parties and any alterations to the contract must be initialed by all the parties involved. If the original offer is marked up and initialed by the party receiving it, then signed, this is not an offer and acceptance but a counter-offer.\n\nA real estate contract typically does not convey or transfer ownership of real estate by itself. A different document called a deed is used to convey real estate. In a real estate contract, the type of deed to be used to convey the real estate may be specified, such as a warranty deed or a quitclaim deed. If a deed type is not specifically mentioned, \"marketable title\" may be specified, implying a warranty deed should be provided. Lenders will insist on a warranty deed. Any liens or other encumbrances on the title to the real estate should be mentioned up front in the real estate contract, so the presence of these deficiencies would not be a reason for voiding the contract at or before the closing. If the liens are not cleared before by the time of the closing, then the deed should specifically have an exception(s) listed for the lien(s) not cleared.\n\nThe buyer(s) signing the real estate contract are liable (legally responsible) for providing the promised consideration for the real estate, which is typically money in the amount of the purchase price. However, the details about the type of ownership may not be specified in the contract. Sometimes, signing buyer(s) may direct a lawyer preparing the deed separately what type of ownership to list on the deed and may decide to add a joint owner(s), such as a spouse, to the deed. For example, types of joint ownership (title) may include tenancy in common, joint tenancy with right of survivorship, or joint tenancy by the entireties. Another possibility is ownership in trust instead of direct ownership.\n\nContingencies are conditions which must be met if a contract is to be performed.\n\nContingencies that suspend the contract until certain events occur are known as \"suspensive conditions\". Contingencies that cancel the contract if certain event occur are known as \"resolutive conditions\".\n\nMost contracts of sale contain contingencies of some kind or another, because few people can afford to enter into a real estate purchase without them. But it is possible for a real estate contract not to have any contingencies.\n\nSome types of contingencies which can appear in a real estate contract include:\n\n\nA typical real estate contract specifies a date by which the closing must occur. The closing is the event in which the money (or other consideration) for the real estate is paid for and title (ownership) of the real estate is conveyed from the seller(s) to the buyer(s). The conveyance is done by the seller(s) signing a deed for buyer(s) or their attorneys or other agents to record the transfer of ownership. Often other paperwork is necessary at the closing.\n\nThe date of the closing is normally also the date when possession of the real estate is transferred from the seller(s) to the buyer(s). However, the real estate contract can specify a different date when possession changes hands. Transfer of possession of a house, condominium, or building is usually accomplished by handing over the key(s) to it. The contract may have provisions in case the seller(s) hold over possession beyond the agreed date.\n\nThe contract can also specify which party pays for what closing cost(s). If the contract does not specify, then there are certain customary defaults depending on law, common law (judicial precedents), location, and other orders or agreements, regarding who pays for which closing costs.\n\nA real estate contract may specify in what condition of the property should be when conveying the title or transferring possession. For example, the contract may say that the property is sold as is, especially if demolition is intended. Alternatively there may be a representation or a warranty (guarantee) regarding the condition of the house, building, or some part of it such as affixed appliances, HVAC system, etc. Sometimes a separate disclosure form specified by a government entity is also used. The contract could also specify any personal property (non-real property) items which are to be included with the deal, such as washer and dryer which are normally detachable from the house. Utility meters, electrical wiring systems, fuse or circuit breaker boxes, plumbing, furnaces, water heaters, sinks, toilets, bathtubs, and most central air conditioning systems are normally considered to be attached to a house or building and would normally be included with the real property by default.\n\nRiders (or addenda) are special attachments (separate sheets) that become part of the contract in certain situations.\n\nAlthough money is the most common consideration, it is not a required element to have a valid real estate contract. \nAn earnest money deposit from the buyer(s) customarily accompanies an offer to buy real estate and the deposit is held by a third party, like a title company, attorney or sometimes the seller. The amount, a small fraction of the total price, is listed in the contract, with the remainder of the cost to be paid at the closing. In some rare cases, other instruments of value, like notes and/or stock or other negotiable instruments can be used for consideration. Other hard assets, like gold, silver and anything of value can also be used or in other cases, love (where it can be shown to have existed between the parties). However, the earnest money deposit represents a credit towards the final sales price, which is usually the main or only consideration.\n\nThe better the financial qualification of the buyer(s) is, the more likely the closing will be successfully completed, which is typically the goal of the seller. Any documentation demonstrating financial qualifications of the buyer(s), such as mortgage loan pre-approval or pre-qualification, may accompany a real estate offer to buy along with an earnest money check. When there are competing offers or when a lower offer is presented, the seller may be more likely to accept an offer from a buyer demonstrating evidence of being well qualified than from a buyer without such evidence.\n\n"}
{"id": "2107147", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2107147", "title": "Right Hegelians", "text": "Right Hegelians\n\nThe Right Hegelians (), Old Hegelians (\"Althegelianer\"), or the Hegelian Right (\"die Hegelsche Rechte\"), were those followers of German philosopher Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel in the early 19th century who took his philosophy in a politically and religiously conservative direction. They are typically contrasted with the Young Hegelians, who interpreted Hegel's political philosophy to support innovations in politics or religion.\n\nHegel's historicism holds that both ideas and institutions can only be understood by understanding their history. Throughout his life, Hegel said he was an orthodox Lutheran. He devoted considerable attention to the Absolute, his term for the infinite Spirit responsible for the totality of reality—something like God, though not the God of classical theism. This Spirit comes to fullest expression in the historical reality of the modern state. In his \"Philosophy of Right\", Hegel writes that:\n\nThe Hegelian right expanded this conception of statism, seizing on it as an affirmation of establishment politics and orthodox religion. Hegel's historicism could be read to affirm the historical inevitability of modern institutions; a nation was an Ideal, existing in Hegelian idealism above and about the people who constituted it. To argue for political change was to attack the Ideal of the national state. The Right Hegelians believed that advanced European societies, as they existed in the first half of the nineteenth century, were the summit of all social development, the product of the historical dialectic that had existed thus far. Most praised the Prussian state, which enjoyed an extensive civil service system, good universities, industrialization, and high employment, as the acme of progress and the incarnation of the \"Zeitgeist\".\n\nMany of the members of the Hegelian right went on to have distinguished careers in public academia or the Lutheran Church. As a school, they were closely associated with the University of Berlin, and held many of the chairs of philosophy and theology there. Generally, the philosophers of the Hegelian right have been neglected; their fame, if not their reputations, has been eclipsed by the Young Hegelians, including Bruno Bauer and Karl Marx. They left their mark chiefly in theology. Their efforts did not have the intended effect of bolstering a sense of the inevitability of faith as a product of history; rather, they pioneered the introduction of higher criticism by demonstrating the influence of an era on the development of Christianity.\n\nPhilosophers within the camp of the Hegelian right include:\n\n\nOther thinkers or historians who may be included among the Hegelian right, with some reservations, include:\n\n\nSpeculative theism was a 1830s movement closely related to but distinguished from Right Hegelianism. Its proponents (Immanuel Hermann Fichte, Christian Hermann Weisse, Hermann Ulrici) were united in their demand to recover the \"personal God\" after panlogist Hegelianism. The movement featured elements of anti-psychologism in the historiography of philosophy.\n\n"}
{"id": "43264681", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43264681", "title": "Rob Thielen", "text": "Rob Thielen\n\nRobertus H. L. M. \"Rob\" Thielen (born 1961) is a Dutch entrepreneur and investor, working primarily in Europe and the CIS. He is chairman and founder of Waterland Private Equity, and co-founding partner of Russia-based private equity group, Elbrus Capital.\n\nThielen graduated in tax law at the University of San Diego in California, USA, and obtained a degree in tax law at the Rijksuniversiteit Leiden, the Netherlands.\n\nHe worked as a turn-around management consultant with the Investment Management & Consulting Group (IMCG) and with the International Corporate Finance Group of ABN AMRO Bank.\n\nThielen was a partner and shareholder of RWP Corporate Finance advisors, which was later acquired by Investec group. He was also general manager of his family owned fashion retail group.\n\nHe is chairman and founder of Waterland Private Equity Investments, an independent private equity group which focuses its investments on Austria, Belgium, Germany, the Netherlands, Poland and Switzerland. Waterland has been involved in about 300 transactions in 54 industries in 17 countries with an equity base of around €2,5 billion. The company owned Intertrust Group, a firm specialised in tax avoidance, until it sold that firm in 2012 for an estimated €400 million.\n\nHe is also co-founding partner of Elbrus Capital, a Russia-based private equity group. Its equity base is around $1,0 billion.\n\nThielen has served as a non-executive member of the board of RPS plc, an LSE quoted company active in environmental consultancy; and a non-executive board member of arxes NCC AG, an IT service provider quoted at the Frankfurt Stock Exchange. He currently is an advisor to the non-executive director of Hampstead Global Fund, a hedge fund formerly listed on the Irish Stock Exchange.\n\nHe contributes to Forbes.com covering international finance and investment trends.\n\nIn 2011 Thielen gave his fiance a cheque for €1 million that was to be paid after their marriage. Thielen broke off their engagement when he was informed that she had worked as a prostitute. Theielen was ordered to honour the cheque by a court in Monaco; but their ruling was later overturned.\n\nThielen donated £50,000 to the British Conservative Party in April 2016.\nVVD politician Hans van Baalen has mentioned Thielen as one of the sponsors of this 2014 campaign for the European Parliament.\n\nThielen also sponsors the ShadowView Foundation and the Sea Shepherd Conservation Society.\n\nThielen was also a member of the visiting faculty of the Rotterdam School of Management (Erasmus University), where he taught on mergers and acquisitions on the RSM MBA program.\n\nIn 2011, Thielen won the annual APEC ‘Private Equity Man of the Year’ Award, an award for Private Equity leaders established by the Amsterdam Private Equity Club.\n\nIn 2009, he was ranked 170 in the Quote 500 list of richest Dutch people; in 2013 he was placed at number 94 in the Netherlands Quote 500.\n"}
{"id": "1613767", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1613767", "title": "Royal Marechaussee", "text": "Royal Marechaussee\n\nThe Koninklijke Marechaussee, the \"Royal Netherlands Marechaussee\", abbreviated to KMar, is one of the four Services of the armed forces of the Netherlands. It is a gendarmerie force performing military police and civil police duties.\n\nThe \"Corps de Maréchaussée\" was created by King William I to replace the French Gendarmerie on October 26, 1814. The word \"gendarmerie\" had gained a negative connotation, so William called the new force \"marechaussée\" (he forgot the first acute accent in the document). Maréchaussée is an alternate French word for \"gendarmerie\". At that time, the Marechaussee was a part of the army (\"landmacht\"). The Marechaussee was tasked with maintaining public order, law enforcement, and safeguarding the main roads. Although not specifically mentioned, this included police duties for the army. As such, the Marechaussee was part of the national police (\"rijkspolitie\").\n\nThe Marechaussee was the only police force in many small municipalities, such as Venlo, especially in the southern provinces of Limburg and North Brabant (former Generality Lands).\n\nIn 1908, Queen Wilhelmina assigned the Marechaussee the task of guarding the royal palaces, which had previously been done by gardeners. To this day, guarding a palace is called \"\"klompendienst\" (clog service).\n\nOn July 5, 1940, the German occupation government merged the Marechaussee with the \"rijksveldwacht\" and the \"gemeenteveldwacht\". This meant that the Marechaussee lost its military status and the predicate Royal. These changes did not apply to the Marechaussee outside occupied Dutch territory. About 200 \"marechaussees\" guarded the Royal Family and the Dutch government-in-exile, and provided military police services to the Princess Irene Brigade, a brigade formed in the United Kingdom, consisting of Dutchmen.\n\nAfter World War II, the Marechaussee was split into a \"Korps Rijkspolitie\" (National Police Corps) (as a replacement of the \"rijksveldwacht\" and the \"gemeenteveldwacht\") and the \"Royal Marechaussee\", which regained its military status. The main tasks for the Marechaussee since then have been border protection, military police and guard duties.\n\nOn July 3, 1956, Princess Beatrix became patroness of the Royal Netherlands Marechaussee.\n\nIn 1994, the national and municipal police forces were merged into the present 25 regional police forces and the \"Korps landelijke politiediensten\" (National Police Services Agency). The National Police transferred its airport police and security tasks (primarily Schiphol) to the Marechaussee.\n\nIn 1998, the Marechaussee became a separate Service within the armed forces.\n\nIn 2014, a team of 40 Dutch Military Police went to eastern Ukraine to assist the investigation into the shooting down of Malaysian airliner MH17. They provided security for the international team and assistance in collecting evidence from the crash site.\n\nThe emblem of the Royal Netherlands Marechaussee is, as with many other gendarmerie forces, a flaming grenade. In the 17th century, a new weapon was introduced in Europe: the hand grenade. The soldiers who handled grenades were called grenadiers. They became an elite type of soldier in all European armies. In France, the grenade symbol was adopted by the gendarmerie, and this was imitated by similar forces throughout Europe.\n\nThe flaming grenade (but in this case within an eight-pointed star) was also the emblem of the \"Rijkspolitie\".\n\nThe present marechaussee is a police organisation with a military status, under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Defense, but mostly working for the Ministry of Security and Justice and the Ministry of the Interior and Kingdom Relations. The RNLM performs the following duties:\n\n\nThe first four units are territorial, other two have national rather than regional responsibilities.\n\nSee Military ranks of the Dutch armed forces\n\n\nIn the course of time the two acute accents of the French spelling (Maréchaussée) were dropped. The lowest ranking personnel are referred to as marechaussees (without the capital M), a rank comparable to lance corporal and corporal.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17310760", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17310760", "title": "SS Race and Settlement Main Office", "text": "SS Race and Settlement Main Office\n\nThe SS Race and Settlement Main Office, (\"Rasse- und Siedlungshauptamt der SS\", RuSHA), was the organization responsible for \"safeguarding the racial 'purity' of the SS\" within Nazi Germany. \n\nOne of its duties was to oversee the marriages of SS personnel in accordance with the racial policy of Nazi Germany. After Heinrich Himmler introduced the \"marriage order\" on December 31, 1931, the RuSHA would only issue a permit to marry once detailed background investigations into the racial fitness of both prospective parents had been completed and proved both of them to be of Aryan descent back to 1800.\n\nThe RuSHA was founded in 1931 by \"Reichsführer-SS\" Heinrich Himmler and Richard Walther Darré, who later rose to the rank of SS-\"Obergruppenführer\". In 1935, it was upgraded to an SS Main Office. Under its first director, Darré, it propagated the Nazi ideology of \"Blood and Soil\". Darré was dismissed by Himmler in 1938 and was succeeded by SS-\"Gruppenführer\" Günther Pancke, SS-\"Gruppenführer\" Otto Hofmann in 1940, and SA-\"Gruppenführer\" Richard Hildebrandt in 1943.\n\nThe RuSHA was created in part to monitor Himmler's 1931 order that the marital decisions of unmarried SS men should be supervised by the Nazi state. SS men would thereafter have to apply for a marriage permit three months before getting married so that the parents of the fiancée could be investigated to ensure her racial purity. With time, the marriage laws became less strict. Thereafter, in December 1935 Himmler ordered the RuSHA to establish the Lebensborn network of maternity homes, whose purpose was \"to accommodate and look after racially and genetically valuable expectant mothers.\" The RuSHA increasingly focused on processing SS marriage applications, genealogy, \"racial-biological\" investigations and the social welfare services of SS members.\n\nIn 1935 the RuSHA consisted of seven departments ():\n\nIn 1940 it was reorganized to create four main departments:\n\nThe Race and Settlement Departments were further divided into the \"Hauptabteilungen\" (Main Branches). One of these managed welfare and pensions in cooperation with the \"SS-Hauptfürsorge- und Versorgungsamt\" (SS Main Welfare and Pension Department) at the Reich Ministry of the Interior.\n\nBy 1937 more than 300 SS men had been expelled from the SS for violating Nazi race laws (\"Rassenschande\"), although an order later stated that they could remain if they were already married and could satisfy racial criteria. In November 1940, Himmler reinstated all SS personnel expelled under the marriage laws, provided they met racial requirements of the Nazi Party.\n\nFollowing the invasion of the Soviet Union in 1941, the RuSHA worked in partnership with VOMI in the \"germanization\" of captured territory, monitoring of settler welfare, and the plantation of ethnic Germans in areas designated for settlement by the SS, particularly in occupied Ukraine. This involved in part, the resetting of Germans in the Nazi occupied Eastern territories and ejecting the native families from those lands. \n\nThe RuSHA was also an advisory and executive office for all questions of racial selection. Racial examinations were performed by \"Rasse und Siedlungs\" (RUS) leaders or their racial examiners (\"Eignungsprüfer\") in connection with:\n\n\nThe RuSHA also employed Josef Mengele for a short time from November 1940 to early 1941, in Department II of its Family Office, where he was responsible for \"care of genetic health\" and \"genetic health tests\". He went on to become one of the team of doctors responsible for the selection of victims to be killed in the gas chambers and for performing deadly human experiments on prisoners at Auschwitz concentration camp.\n\nIn July 1947, 14 officials from the organization were indicted in the RuSHA Trial and tried by the Allied powers at Nuremberg. All were charged with crimes against humanity, war crimes and membership of a criminal organization (the SS). All but one (who was acquitted on the two more serious charges) were found guilty and sentenced to between three and 25 years imprisonment.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41620867", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41620867", "title": "Security vetting in the United Kingdom", "text": "Security vetting in the United Kingdom\n\nIn the United Kingdom, government policy requires that staff undergo security vetting in order to gain access to government information.\n\nThe government uses four levels of personnel security controls depending on the level of assurance required. Three of these levels are types of national security vetting clearance.\nVetting is intended to assure government bodies that the individual has not been involved in espionage, terrorism, sabotage or actions intended to overthrow or undermine Parliamentary democracy by political, industrial or violent means. It also assures the department that the individual has not been a member of, or associated with, an organisation which has advocated such activities or has demonstrated a lack of reliability through dishonesty, lack of integrity or behaviour. Finally, the process assures the department that the individual will not be subject to pressure or improper influence through past behaviour or personal circumstances.\n\nVetting is usually carried out by United Kingdom Security Vetting (UKSV). UKSV was created in January 2017 by combining DBS National Security Vetting (DBS NSV) and FCO Services National Security Vetting (FCOS NSV). This change was an outcome of the Strategic Defence and Security Review 2015.\n\nThe Baseline Personnel Security Standard (BPSS) checks are normally performed when a person is recruited.\n\nAll those with access to government assets are subject on recruitment to the requirements of the Baseline Personnel Security Standard. This includes all applicants for employment in the civil service and armed forces and applies to both permanent and temporary staff and private sector employees working on government contracts, with access to government assets.\n\nThe Baseline Personnel Security Standard requires the verification of the following four elements:\n\nA reasonable account of any significant periods (a total of 6 months or more in the past 3 years) spent abroad. Prospective employees who have recently come to the UK or lived abroad may be asked to provide overseas police certificates of good conduct.\n\nBPSS\n\nEmployers may initiate the following incremental national security vetting checks on recruits after performing the BPSS check.\n\nA Counter Terrorist Check (CTC) is required for individuals who are employed in posts that: \n\nThe process for CTC clearance includes:\n\nA CTC clearance must be formally reviewed after ten years (five years for non-List X Contractors).\n\nIn the transport sector security vetting requirements, including for Counter Terrorist Check, is regulated by the Department of Transport.\n\nA CTC is required for police officers and many associated staff.\n\nA Security Check (SC) is the most widely held level of security clearance. SC is required for posts involving regular and uncontrolled access to SECRET assets and/or occasional, supervised access to TOP SECRET assets, and for individuals who:\n\nThe process for SC clearance includes:\n\nChecks may extend to third parties included on the security questionnaire.\n\nAn SC security clearance must be formally reviewed after ten years (seven years for non-List X contractors) or at any time up to that point at the discretion of the vetting authority.\n\nThis is similar to an SC but also includes a financial questionnaire. \n\nDV is the most detailed and comprehensive form of security clearance in UK government. It is needed for posts that require individuals to have frequent and uncontrolled access to TOP SECRET assets, or require any access to TOP SECRET codeword material. It is also required for individuals who: \n\nThe process for DV clearance includes:\n\nA DV security clearance must be reviewed every seven years or at any time up to those points at the discretion of the vetting authority.\n\nEnhanced Developed Vetting requires additional in-depth interviews, which may be necessary for certain roles.\n\nIn addition to national security clearances, other types of roles and organisations stipulate a need for clearances, including:\n\nA change of personal circumstances (CPC) questionnaire has to be submitted when an SC, DV or CTC clearance holder is \"marrying, remarrying, entering into a civil partnership, setting up a stable unmarried relationship which includes living with someone as a couple\". DV clearance holders also have to report the arrival of new \"co-residents\" such as a lodger or flatmate. When two cleared persons marry both have to submit CPC questionnaires.\n\nA request can be made to transfer national security clearances between organisations, providing they have not expired. Transfers are requested by the \"new employing sponsor\". Transfers can be the same level of clearance or lower. No more than twelve months must have elapsed since the holder left the organisation for which the clearance was originally granted and no more than six months living overseas. New completed change of circumstances questionnaires, to bring the UKSV records up to date, may be required. The new sponsor reviews the details of the clearance and decides if it is acceptable for the specific new role.\n"}
{"id": "217119", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=217119", "title": "Shifting cultivation", "text": "Shifting cultivation\n\nShifting cultivation is an agricultural system in which plots of land are cultivated temporarily, then abandoned and allowed to revert to their natural vegetation while the cultivator moves on to another plot. The period of cultivation is usually terminated when the soil shows signs of exhaustion or, more commonly, when the field is overrun by weeds. The length of time that a field is cultivated is usually shorter than the period over which the land is allowed to regenerate by lying fallow. This technique is often used in LEDCs (Less Economically Developed Countries) or LICs (Low Income Countries). In some areas, cultivators use a practice of slash-and-burn as one element of their farming cycle. Others employ land clearing without any burning, and some cultivators are purely migratory and do not use any cyclical method on a given plot. Sometimes no slashing at all is needed where regrowth is purely of grasses, an outcome not uncommon when soils are near exhaustion and need to lie fallow.\nIn shifting agriculture, after two or three years of producing vegetable and grain crops on cleared land, the migrants abandon it for another plot. Land is often cleared by slash-and-burn methods—trees, bushes and forests are cleared by slashing, and the remaining vegetation is burnt. The ashes add potash to the soil. Then the seeds are sown after the rains.\n\nShifting cultivation is a form of agriculture or a cultivation system, in which, at any particular point in time, a minority of 'fields' are in cultivation and a majority are in various stages of natural re-growth. Over time, fields are cultivated for a relatively short time, and allowed to recover, or are fallowed, for a relatively long time. Eventually a previously cultivated field will be cleared of the natural vegetation and planted in crops again. Fields in established and stable shifting cultivation systems are cultivated and fallowed cyclically.This type of farming is called jhumming in India.\n\nFallow fields are not unproductive. During the fallow period, shifting cultivators use the successive vegetation species widely for timber for fencing and construction, firewood, thatching, ropes, clothing, tools, carrying devices and medicines. It is common for fruit and nut trees to be planted in fallow fields to the extent that parts of some fallows are in fact orchards. Soil-enhancing shrub or tree species may be planted or protected from slashing or burning in fallows. Many of these species have been shown to fix nitrogen. Fallows commonly contain plants that attract birds and animals and are important for hunting. But perhaps most importantly, tree fallows protect soil against physical erosion and draw nutrients to the surface from deep in the soil profile.\n\nThe relationship between the time the land is cultivated and the time it is fallowed are critical to the stability of shifting cultivation systems. These parameters determine whether or not the shifting cultivation system as a whole suffers a net loss of nutrients over time. A system in which there is a net loss of nutrients with each cycle will eventually lead to a degradation of resources unless actions are taken to arrest the losses. In some cases soil can be irreversibly exhausted (including erosion as well as nutrient loss) in less than a decade.\n\nThe longer a field is cropped, the greater the loss of soil organic matter, cation-exchange-capacity and in nitrogen and phosphorus, the greater the increase in acidity, the more likely soil porosity and infiltration capacity is reduced and the greater the loss of seeds of naturally occurring plant species from soil seed banks. In a stable shifting cultivation system, the fallow is long enough for the natural vegetation to recover to the state that it was in before it was cleared, and for the soil to recover to the condition it was in before cropping began. During fallow periods soil temperatures are lower, wind and water erosion is much reduced, nutrient cycling becomes closed again, nutrients are extracted from the subsoil, soil fauna decreases, acidity is reduced, soil structure, texture and moisture characteristics improve and seed banks are replenished.\n\nThe secondary forests created by shifting cultivation are commonly richer in plant and animal resources useful to humans than primary forests, even though they are much less bio-diverse. Shifting cultivators view the forest as an agricultural landscape of fields at various stages in a regular cycle. People unused to living in forests cannot see the fields for the trees. Rather they perceive an apparently chaotic landscape in which trees are cut and burned randomly and so they characterise shifting cultivation as ephemeral or 'pre-agricultural', as 'primitive' and as a stage to be progressed beyond. Shifting agriculture is none of these things. Stable shifting cultivation systems are highly variable, closely adapted to micro-environments and are carefully managed by farmers during both the cropping and fallow stages. Shifting cultivators may possess a highly developed knowledge and understanding of their local environments and of the crops and native plant species they exploit. Complex and highly adaptive land tenure systems sometimes exist under shifting cultivation. Introduced crops for food and as cash have been skillfully integrated into some shifting cultivation systems. Its disadvantages include the high initial cost, as manual labour is required.\n\nShifting cultivation was still being practised as a viable and stable form of agriculture in many parts of Europe and east into Siberia at the end of the 19th century and in some places well into the 20th century. In the Ruhr in the late 1860s a forest-field rotation system known as Reutbergwirtschaft was using a 16-year cycle of clearing, cropping and fallowing with trees to produce bark for tanneries, wood for charcoal and rye for flour (Darby 1956, 200). Swidden farming was practised in Siberia at least until the 1930s, using specially selected varieties of \"swidden-rye\" (Steensberg 1993, 98). In Eastern Europe and Northern Russia the main swidden crops were turnips, barley, flax, rye, wheat, oats, radishes and millet. Cropping periods were usually one year, but were extended to two or three years on very favourable soils. Fallow periods were between 20 and 40 years (Linnard 1970, 195). In Finland in 1949, Steensberg (1993, 111) observed the clearing and burning of a swidden 440 km north of Helsinki. Birch and pine trees had been cleared over a period of a year and the logs sold for cash. A fallow of alder (Alnus) was encouraged to improve soil conditions. After the burn, turnip was sown for sale and for cattle feed. Shifting cultivation was disappearing in this part of Finland because of a loss of agricultural labour to the industries of the towns. Steensberg (1993, 110-152) provides eye-witness descriptions of shifting cultivation being practised in Sweden in the 20th century, and in Estonia, Poland, the Caucasus, Serbia, Bosnia, Hungary, Switzerland, Austria and Germany in the 1930s to the 1950s.\n\nThat these agricultural practices survived from the Neolithic into the middle of the 20th century amidst the sweeping changes that occurred in Europe over that period, suggests they were adaptive and in themselves, were not massively destructive of the environments in which they were practiced. \nThe earliest written accounts of forest destruction in Southern Europe begin around 1000 BC in the histories of Homer, Thucydides and Plato and in Strabo's Geography. Forests were exploited for ship building, and urban development, the manufacture of casks, pitch and charcoal, as well as being cleared for agriculture. The intensification of trade and as a result of warfare, increased the demand for ships which were manufactured completely from forest products. Although goat herding is singled out as an important cause of environmental degradation, a more important cause of forest destruction was the practice in some places of granting ownership rights to those who clear felled forests and brought the land into permanent cultivation. Evidence that circumstances other than agriculture were the major causes for forest destruction was the recovery of tree cover in many parts of the Roman empire from 400 BC to around 500 AD following the collapse of Roman economy and industry. Darby observes that by 400 AD \"land that had once been tilled became derelict and overgrown\" and quotes Lactantius who wrote that in many places \"cultivated land became forest\" (Darby 1956, 186). The other major cause of forest destruction in the Mediterranean environment with its hot dry summers were wild fires that became more common following human interference in the forests.\n\nIn Central and Northern Europe the use of stone tools and fire in agriculture is well established in the palynological and archaeological record from the Neolithic. Here, just as in Southern Europe, the demands of more intensive agriculture and the invention of the plough, trading, mining and smelting, tanning, building and construction in the growing towns and constant warfare, including the demands of naval shipbuilding, were more important forces behind the destruction of the forests than was shifting cultivation.\n\nBy the Middle Ages in Europe, large areas of forest were being cleared and converted into arable land in association with the development of feudal tenurial practices. From the 16th to the 18th centuries, the demands of iron smelters for charcoal, increasing industrial developments and the discovery and expansion of colonial empires as well as incessant warfare that increased the demand for shipping to levels never previously reached, all combined to deforest Europe. With the loss of the forest, so shifting cultivation became restricted to the peripheral places of Europe, where permanent agriculture was uneconomic, transport costs constrained logging or terrain prevented the use of draught animals or tractors. It has disappeared from even these refuges since 1945, as agriculture has become increasingly capital intensive, rural areas have become depopulated and the remnant European forests themselves have been revalued economically and socially. It is for crop only not for livestock.\n\nA growing body of palynological evidence finds that simple human societies brought about extensive changes to their environments before the establishment of any sort of state, feudal or capitalist, and before the development of large scale mining, smelting or shipbuilding industries. In these societies agriculture was the driving force in the economy and shifting cultivation was the most common type of agriculture practiced. By examining the relationships between social and economic change and agricultural change in these societies, insights can be gained on contemporary social and economic change and global environment change, and the place of shifting cultivation in those relationship.\n\nAs early as 1930 questions about relationships between the rise and fall of the Mayan civilization of the Yucatán Peninsula and shifting cultivation were raised and continue to be debated today. Archaeological evidence suggests the development of Mayan society and economy began around 250 AD. A mere 700 years later it reached its apogee, by which time the population may have reached 2,000,000 people. There followed a precipitous decline that left the great cities and ceremonial centres vacant and overgrown with jungle vegetation. The causes of this decline are uncertain; but warfare and the exhaustion of agricultural land are commonly cited (Meggers 1954; Dumond 1961; Turner 1974). More recent work suggests the Maya may have, in suitable places, developed irrigation systems and more intensive agricultural practices (Humphries 1993).\n\nSimilar paths appear to have been followed by Polynesian settlers in New Zealand and the Pacific Islands, who within 500 years of their arrival around 1100 AD turned substantial areas from forest into scrub and fern and in the process caused the elimination of numerous species of birds and animals (Kirch and Hunt 1997). In the restricted environments of the Pacific islands, including Fiji and Hawaii, early extensive erosion and change of vegetation is presumed to have been caused by shifting cultivation on slopes. Soils washed from slopes were deposited in valley bottoms as a rich, swampy alluvium. These new environments were then exploited to develop intensive, irrigated fields. The change from shifting cultivation to intensive irrigated fields occurred in association with a rapid growth in population and the development of elaborate and highly stratified chiefdoms (Kirch 1984). In the larger, temperate latitude, islands of New Zealand the presumed course of events took a different path. There the stimulus for population growth was the hunting of large birds to extinction, during which time forests in drier areas were destroyed by burning, followed the development of intensive agriculture in favorable environments, based mainly on sweet potato (Ipomoea batatas) and a reliance on the gathering of two main wild plant species in less favorable environments. These changes, as in the smaller islands, were accompanied by population growth, the competition for the occupation of the best environments, complexity in social organization, and endemic warfare (Anderson 1997).\n\nThe record of humanly induced changes in environments is longer in New Guinea than in most places. Agricultural activities probably began 5,000 to 9,000 years ago. However, the most spectacular changes, in both societies and environments, are believed to have occurred in the central highlands of the island within the last 1,000 years, in association with the introduction of a crop new to New Guinea, the sweet potato (Golson 1982a; 1982b). One of the most striking signals of the relatively recent intensification of agriculture is the sudden increase in sedimentation rates in small lakes.\n\nThe root question posed by these and the numerous other examples that could be cited of simple societies that have intensified their agricultural systems in association with increases in population and social complexity is not whether or how shifting cultivation was responsible for the extensive changes to landscapes and environments. Rather it is why simple societies of shifting cultivators in the tropical forest of Yucatán, or the highlands of New Guinea, began to grow in numbers and to develop stratified and sometimes complex social hierarchies?\n\nAt first sight, the greatest stimulus to the intensification of a shifting cultivation system is a growth in population. If no other changes occur within the system, for each extra person to be fed from the system, a small extra amount of land must be cultivated. The total amount of land available is the land being presently cropped and all of the land in fallow. If the area occupied by the system is not expanded into previously unused land, then either the cropping period must be extended or the fallow period shortened.\n\nAt least two problems exist with the population growth hypothesis. First, population growth in most pre-industrial shifting cultivator societies has been shown to be very low over the long term. Second, no human societies are known where people work only to eat. People engage in social relations with each other and agricultural produce is used in the conduct of these relationships.\n\nThese relationships are the focus of two attempts to understand the nexus between human societies and their environments, one an explanation of a particular situation and the other a general exploration of the problem.\n\nIn a study of the Duna in the Southern Highlands of New Guinea, a group in the process of moving from shifting cultivation into permanent field agriculture post sweet potato, Modjeska (1982) argued for the development of two \"self amplifying feed back loops\" of ecological and social causation. The trigger to the changes were very slow population growth and the slow expansion of agriculture to meet the demands of this growth. This set in motion the first feedback loop, the \"use-value\" loop. As more forest was cleared there was a decline in wild food resources and protein produced from hunting, which was substituted for by an increase in domestic pig raising. An increase in domestic pigs required a further expansion in agriculture. The greater protein available from the larger number of pigs increased human fertility and survival rates and resulted in faster population growth.\n\nThe outcome of the operation of the two loops, one bringing about ecological change and the other social and economic change, is an expanding and intensifying agricultural system, the conversion of forest to grassland, a population growing at an increasing rate and expanding geographically and a society that is increasing in complexity and stratification.\n\nThe second attempt to explain the relationships between simple agricultural societies and their environments is that of Ellen (1982, 252–270). Ellen does not attempt to separate use-values from social production. He argues that almost all of the materials required by humans to live (with perhaps the exception of air) are obtained through social relations of production and that these relations proliferate and are modified in numerous ways. The values that humans attribute to items produced from the environment arise out of cultural arrangements and not from the objects themselves, a restatement of Carl Sauer's dictum that \"resources are cultural appraisals\". Humans frequently translate actual objects into culturally conceived forms, an example being the translation by the Duna of the pig into an item of compensation and redemption. As a result, two fundamental processes underlie the ecology of human social systems: First, the obtaining of materials from the environment and their alteration and circulation through social relations, and second, giving the material a value which will affect how important it is to obtain it, circulate it or alter it. Environmental pressures are thus mediated through social relations.\n\nTransitions in ecological systems and in social systems do not proceed at the same rate. The rate of phylogenetic change is determined mainly by natural selection and partly by human interference and adaptation, such as for example, the domestication of a wild species. Humans however have the ability to learn and to communicate their knowledge to each other and across generations. If most social systems have the tendency to increase in complexity they will, sooner or later, come into conflict with, or into \"contradiction\" (Friedman 1979, 1982) with their environments. What happens around the point of \"contradiction\" will determine the extent of the environmental degradation that will occur. Of particular importance is the ability of the society to change, to invent or to innovate technologically and sociologically, in order to overcome the \"contradiction\" without incurring continuing environmental degradation, or social disintegration.\n\nAn economic study of what occurs at the points of conflict with specific reference to shifting cultivation is that of Esther Boserup (1965). Boserup argues that low intensity farming, extensive shifting cultivation for example, has lower labor costs than more intensive farming systems. This assertion remains controversial. She also argues that given a choice, a human group will always choose the technique which has the lowest absolute labor cost rather than the highest yield. But at the point of conflict, yields will have become unsatisfactory. Boserup argues, contra Malthus, that rather than population always overwhelming resources, that humans will invent a new agricultural technique or adopt an existing innovation that will boost yields and that is adapted to the new environmental conditions created by the degradation which has occurred already, even though they will pay for the increases in higher labor costs. Examples of such changes are the adoption of new higher yielding crops, the exchanging of a digging stick for a hoe, or a hoe for a plough, or the development of irrigation systems. The controversy over Boserup's proposal is in part over whether intensive systems are more costly in labor terms, and whether humans will bring about change in their agricultural systems before environmental degradation forces them to.\n\nThe estimated rate of deforestation in Southeast Asia in 1990 was 34,000 km² per year (FAO 1990, quoted in Potter 1993). In Indonesia alone it was estimated 13,100 km² per year were being lost, 3,680 km² per year from Sumatra and 3,770 km² from Kalimantan, of which 1,440 km² were due to the fires of 1982 to 1983. Since those estimates were made huge fires have ravaged Indonesian forests during the 1997 to 1998 El Niño associated drought.\n\nShifting cultivation was assessed by the FAO to be one of the causes of deforestation while logging was not. The apparent discrimination against shifting cultivators caused a confrontation between FAO and environmental groups, who saw the FAO supporting commercial logging interests against the rights of indigenous people (Potter 1993, 108). Other independent studies of the problem note that despite lack of government control over forests and the dominance of a political elite in the logging industry, the causes of deforestation are more complex. The loggers have provided paid employment to former subsistence farmers. One of the outcomes of cash incomes has been rapid population growth among indigenous groups of former shifting cultivators that has placed pressure on their traditional long fallow farming systems. Many farmers have taken advantage of the improved road access to urban areas by planting cash crops, such as rubber or pepper as noted above. Increased cash incomes often are spent on chain saws, which have enabled larger areas to be cleared for cultivation. Fallow periods have been reduced and cropping periods extended. Serious poverty elsewhere in the country has brought thousands of land-hungry settlers into the cut-over forests along the logging roads. The settlers practice what appears to be shifting cultivation but which is in fact a one-cycle slash and burn followed by continuous cropping, with no intention to long fallow. Clearing of trees and the permanent cultivation of fragile soils in a tropical environment with little attempt to replace lost nutrients may cause rapid degradation of the fragile soils.\n\nThe loss of forest in Indonesia, Thailand, and the Philippines during the 1990s was preceded by major ecosystem disruptions in Vietnam, Laos and Cambodia in the 1970s and 1980s caused by warfare. Forests were sprayed with defoliants, thousands of rural forest dwelling people uproots from their homes and moved and roads driven into previously isolated areas. The loss of the tropical forests of Southeast Asia is the particular outcome of the general possible outcomes described by Ellen (see above) when small local ecological and social systems become part of larger system. When the previous relatively stable ecological relationships are destabilized, degradation can occur rapidly. Similar descriptions of the loss of forest and destruction of fragile ecosystems could be provided from the Amazon Basin, by large scale state sponsored colonization forest land (Becker 1995, 61) or from the Central Africa where what endemic armed conflict is destabilizing rural settlement and farming communities on a massive scale.\n\nIn the tropical developing world, shifting cultivation in its many diverse forms, remains a pervasive practice. Shifting cultivation was one of the very first forms of agriculture practiced by humans and its survival into the modern world suggests that it is a flexible and highly adaptive means of production. However, it is also a grossly misunderstood practice. Many casual observers cannot see past the clearing and burning of standing forest and do not perceive often ecologically stable cycles of cropping and fallowing. Nevertheless, shifting cultivation systems are particularly susceptible to rapid increases in population and to economic and social change in the larger world around them. The blame for the destruction of forest resources is often laid on shifting cultivators. But the forces bringing about the rapid loss of tropical forests at the end of the 20th century are the same forces that led to the destruction of the forests of Europe, urbanization, industrialization, increased affluence, populational growth and geographical expansion and the application the latest technology to extract ever more resources from the environment in pursuit of wealth and political power by competing groups. However we must know that those who practice Agriculture are at the receiving end of the social stratum.\n\nStudies of small, isolated and pre-capitalist groups and their relationships with their environments suggests that the roots of the contemporary problem lie deep in human behavioral patterns, for even in these simple societies, competition and conflict can be identified as the main force driving them into contradiction with their environments.\n\nSlash-and-char, as opposed to slash-and-burn, may create self-perpetuating soil fertility that supports sedentary agriculture, but the society so sustained may still be overturned, as above (\"see\" article at Terra preta).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11562093", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11562093", "title": "Six-Year Plan", "text": "Six-Year Plan\n\nSix-Year Plan (1950–1955) was the second - after the Three-Year Plan (1947–1949) - centralized plan of the People's Republic of Poland. It concentrated on increasing the heavy industry sector.\n\nBy 1950 the Polish government was dominated by Stalinist hardliners, such as Hilary Minc, and liberal economists responsible for creation of the Three-Year Plan were no longer influencing government policy. The Six-Year Plan, designed to bring the economy of Poland in line with the Soviet economy, concentrated on heavy industrialization, with projects such as Nowa Huta. The plan was accepted by the Sejm on July 21, 1950. Later on, it was modified several times, and never fully completed. \n\nPolish society paid a heavy price for badly thought-out and quick industrialization. Living standards were reduced, since investments in other fields, such as construction, were cut. In agriculture, the idea of collectivization was promoted, to the protests of Polish farmers. The plan was fashioned after similar Soviet plans, and was based on certain Soviet-style principles, such as central planning of economy, limiting the so-called Capitalist elements, and close cooperation with other Eastern Bloc nations. New urban districts were built in big cities, attracting residents of overpopulated villages. At the same time, however, the balance between supply and demand deepened, and shortages of basic products were common. As a result, rationing was re-introduced in the early 1950s. \n\nThe only real achievement of the Six-Year Plan was quick development of heavy industry. At the same time, however, other fields of Polish economy, such as services and food industry, remained underdeveloped, as all state funds were directed at construction of shipyards, steel plants, chemical plants and car factories. Among major investments of the plan are:\n\n"}
{"id": "52980173", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52980173", "title": "Social policy of Donald Trump", "text": "Social policy of Donald Trump\n\nThis is an article about the social policy of Donald Trump during his presidency.\n\nPresident Donald Trump describes himself as pro-life and generally opposes abortion with some exceptions: rape, incest, and circumstances endangering the life of the mother. He has said that he is committed to appointing justices who may overturn the ruling in \"Roe v. Wade\". Trump personally supports \"traditional marriage\" but said after the election that he considers the nationwide legality of same-sex marriage a \"settled\" issue with the \"Obergefell v. Hodges\" ruling. This appeared to contradict some of his campaign statements, where he said he would \"strongly consider\" appointing justices who may overturn this decision. Whereas candidate Donald Trump largely avoided commenting on LGBT issues, the Trump administration rolled back a number of LGBT protections during the president's first six months in office.\n\nTrump supports a broad interpretation of the Second Amendment and says he is opposed to gun control in general, although his views have shifted over time. Trump supports legalizing recreational marijuana & supports states that have legalized medical marijuana.\n\nTrump's views on abortion have changed significantly between 1999 when he was \"very\" pro-choice and would neither ban abortion nor \"partial-birth abortion\", and his 2016 presidential campaign where he repeatedly described himself as pro-life (more specifically \"pro-life with exceptions\"), suggested that women who have abortions should face some sort of punishment (a view he quickly retracted), and pledged to appoint pro-life justices to the Supreme Court.\n\nIn October 1999, Trump said, \"I am very pro-choice\" and \"I believe in choice.\" He said that he hated the \"concept of abortion,\" but would not ban abortion or the procedure sometimes called \"partial-birth abortion.\" Later that year, Trump gave interviews stating \"I'm totally pro-choice\" and \"I want to see the abortion issue removed from politics. I believe it is a personal decision that should be left to the women and their doctors.\"\n\nWhile campaigning for the presidency in 2016, Trump stated \"I'm pro-life and I've been pro-life a long time\" and acknowledged that he had \"evolved\" on the issue. CNN reported that Trump \"dodged questions testing the specificity of those views.\" In August 2015, Trump said that he supported a government shutdown over federal funding for Planned Parenthood (which receives federal funding for the health services it provides to 2.7 million people annually, but is barred by federal law from using federal funds for abortion-related procedures). In March 2016, Trump said that Planned Parenthood should not be funded \"as long as you have the abortion going on,\" but acknowledged that \"Planned Parenthood has done very good work for many, many -- for millions of women.\" Planned Parenthood said in a statement that \"Trump presidency would be a disaster for women\" and criticized Trump's claim that \"he'd be great for women while in the same breath pledging to block them from accessing care at Planned Parenthood.\"\n\nIn an interview later that month, Trump acknowledged that there must be \"some form\" of punishment for women if abortion were made illegal in the U.S. Trump issued a statement later that day reversing his position from earlier by saying, \"the doctor or any other person performing this illegal act upon a woman would be held legally responsible, not the woman.\" Trump has said that abortion should be legal in cases involving \"rape, incest or the life of the mother being at risk.\"\n\nIn May 2016, when asked if he would appoint Supreme Court justices who would overturn \"Roe v. Wade\", Trump stated: \"Well, they'll be pro-life. And we'll see about overturning, but I will appoint judges that will be pro-life.\" In the same interview, Trump stated of the pro-life cause: \"I will protect it, and the biggest way you can protect is through the Supreme Court.\" The Susan B. Anthony List, a pro-life feminist group, praised Trump's list of potential Supreme Court nominees as \"exceptionally strong,\" while the pro-choice group NARAL Pro-Choice America called the candidates on the list \"a woman's worst nightmare.\" Trump has also pledged to sign legislation from Congress banning abortion at the 20-week mark.\n\nIn his first interview following his designation as president-elect, Trump affirmed his pledge to appoint pro-life Supreme Court justices. He said that if \"Roe v. Wade\" were overturned, the issue would be returned to the states, and that if some states outlawed abortion, a woman would \"have to go to another state\" to obtain an abortion.\n\nIn January 24, days after being sworn in, Trump issued an executive order reinstating the Mexico City policy (also called the \"global gag rule\"). Under the policy, international non-governmental organizations that \"offer or promote abortions as part of their family planning services\" are barred from receiving funds from the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID).\n\nOn March 27, Trump revoked the 2014 Fair Pay and Safe Workplaces order then-President Barack Obama put in place to ensure that companies with federal contracts comply with 14 labor and civil rights laws.\n\nIn January 2018, Trump spoke at the March for Life in Washington D.C., becoming the first president to directly address the annual anti-abortion rally, albeit through satellite.\n\nOn May 3, 2018 he signed an executive order entitled, \"Establishment of a White House Faith and Opportunity Initiative\" that aims to prevent funding for abortion.\n\nTrump, a self-described Presbyterian who was described by CNN as \"unique among modern American presidents for his seeming lack of deep religious orientation\", has largely considered the support of Evangelical voters to be instrumental in him becoming President of the United States, 81% of whom voted for him. Trump attended Marble Collegiate Church, a congregation of the Reformed Church in America, for more than 50 years but is not an \"active member.\" He and Melania Trump married at Bethesda-by-the-Sea Episcopal Church.\n\nTrump has on several occasions suggested that Christians are being discriminated against, for instance, stating that \"Christianity is under tremendous siege.\" \nTrump has suggested that he is being audited by the IRS \"maybe because of the fact that I'm a strong Christian.\" He has suggested that he would have an easier time getting a ban on Christian immigrants passed than one on Muslims.\n\nHe has vowed to end the Johnson Amendment, an IRS rule that prohibits section 501(c) tax-exempt organizations from endorsing candidates or participating in partisan campaigns. He stated the rule undermines Christian influence in U.S. politics, adding \"we have more Christians than we have men or women in our country and we don't have a lobby because they're afraid to have a lobby because they don't want to lose their tax status... So I am going to work like hell to get rid of that prohibition and we're going to have the strongest Christian lobby and it's going to happen.\" In his February 2017 address at the National Prayer Breakfast, Trump stated: \"I will get rid of and totally destroy the Johnson Amendment.\"\n\nTrump has been critical of department stores that do not greet their customers with \"merry Christmas\", stating that things will change if he gets elected president: \"I'll tell you one thing: I get elected president, we're going to be saying 'merry Christmas' again. Just remember that.\"\n\nTrump has long advocated for capital punishment in the United States. In May 1989, shortly after the Central Park jogger case received widespread media attention, Trump purchased a full-page ad in four New York City newspapers with the title \"BRING BACK THE DEATH PENALTY!\" Five defendants (the \"Central Park Five\") were wrongfully convicted in the case and were subsequently exonerated. By October 2016, Trump still maintained that \"Central Park Five\" were guilty.\n\nIn December 2015, in a speech accepting the endorsement of the New England Police Benevolent Association, Trump said that \"One of the first things I do [if elected President] in terms of executive order if I win will be to sign a strong, strong statement that will go out to the country, out to the world, that ... anybody killing a police officer—death penalty. It's going to happen, O.K.?\" However, under the current U.S. legal system, these prosecutions usually take place in state court under state law, and the president has no authority over such cases. Furthermore, 19 states have abolished the death penalty, and mandatory death sentences are unconstitutional, as held by the Supreme Court in \"Woodson v. North Carolina\" (1976).\n\nTrump's views on drug policy have shifted dramatically over time.\n\nAt a luncheon hosted by the \"Miami Herald\" in April 1990, Trump told a crowd of 700 people that U.S. drug enforcement policy was \"a joke,\" and that: \"We're losing badly the war on drugs. You have to legalize drugs to win that war. You have to take the profit away from these drug czars.\"\n\nIn his campaign for the presidency in 2015 and 2016, however, Trump adopted \"drug warrior\" positions and has sought advice on the issue from William J. Bennett, who served as the U.S. first \"drug czar\" in the 1980s \"and has remained a proponent of harsh 1980s-style drug war tactics.\" Trump told Sean Hannity in June 2015 that he opposes marijuana legalization and that \"I feel strongly about that.\" Trump also claims to have personally never used controlled substances of any kind.\n\nTrump has voiced support for medical marijuana, saying that he is \"a hundred percent in favor\" because \"I know people that have serious problems... and... it really, really does help them.\" When asked about Colorado (where recreational use of marijuana is legal), Trump softened his previously expressed views and essentially said that states should be able to decide on whether marijuana for recreational purposes should be legal.\n\nIn October 2015, Trump stated that \"you have to be careful with\" paid family leave as it could impact keeping \"our country very competitive\". However, in several policy proposals which were created in part by his daughter Ivanka in September of that year, Trump guaranteed six weeks paid maternity leave to mothers who do not already receive leave from their employers in the first paid maternity leave plan from a Republican presidential nominee. However, Trump's proposals were criticized by opponents as hypocritical in light of Trump's previous comments on women, and for being sexist in assuming that women were their children's sole caregivers. Josh Levs in \"Time\" magazine wrote that \"Policies that only allow women time off end up hurting women by pushing women to stay home and men to stay at work, reinforcing our anachronistic Mad Men-era work cultures.\"\n\nTrump has called for police to arrest those who protest at his rallies, saying that fear of an \"arrest mark\" that would \"ruin the rest of their lives\" would be a deterrent and that then \"we're not going to have any more protesters, folks.\" Geoffrey R. Stone, a professor at the University of Chicago Law School, notes that opponents and disruptive individuals may be removed from Trump rallies consistent with the First Amendment, but opponents have a First Amendment right to protest Trump \"outside\" the venue. Stone writes that it is unclear whether it would be consistent with the First Amendment for Trump to \"order the removal of those who oppose his candidacy from his political rallies if he does not announce in advance that they are open only to his supporters,\" noting that the answer to this question depends not on the First Amendment, but on the nature of open invitations in the law of trespass.\n\nTrump has said that if elected, he would loosen defamation laws so that when journalists write \"purposely negative and horrible and false articles, we can sue them and win lots of money.\" The Associated Press reported that this proposal to weaken the First Amendment protections for the press is at odds with \"widely held conceptions of constitutional law.\" The Reporters Committee for Freedom of the Press and other First Amendment advocates condemned Trump's proposal, which would make it easier to win lawsuits accusing newspapers of libel.\n\nTrump has expressed support for adopting English-style defamation laws in the U.S.; under UK law, it is easier for plaintiffs to sue newspapers and other media outlets. In 2016, the American Bar Association (ABA)'s committee on media law created a report that was critical of Trump's support for expansive defamation laws and his use of libel suits in the past. The committee concluded that Trump was \"a 'libel bully' who had filed many meritless suits attacking his opponents and had never won in court.\" The ABA's leadership blocked the report from being issued; the organization did not contest the committee's conclusions, but expressed concern about the possibility of being sued by Trump.\n\nOn the campaign trail in 2015 and 2016, Trump has frequently \"railed against\" the press, referring to the media as \"the most dishonest people\" and \"absolute scum.\" The Trump campaign has barred reporters (from Politico, \"The New York Times\", \"The Des Moines Register\", \"The Huffington Post\", and Univision, among others) from its campaign events, \"often in the wake of critical coverage.\" In October 2016, NBC News reportedly held off on airing a video of Trump making lewd and disparaging remarks about women due to concerns that Trump would sue the network.\n\nAccording to the \"Chicago Tribune\", Trump has not addressed the gender pay gap in his 2016 presidential bid (as of July 2016). According to the Tribune, \"Trump's past statements on women in the workplace have included calling pregnancy 'an inconvenience' and telling a voter in New Hampshire last year that women will receive the same pay as men 'if they do as good a job.'\"\n\nRea Carey, the executive director of the National LGBTQ Task Force, has described Trump's public statements on LGBT issues as \"confusing and conflicting.\" During his campaign for the presidency, Trump did not emphasize the issue and at times gave ambiguous answers. Within the Republican Party, Trump was viewed as having a more accepting view of LGBT people. Trump said that he was a supporter of \"traditional marriage\" but that the decision on whether to allow same-sex couples to marry should be determined state by state. At one point in the campaign, Trump said that \"he would 'strongly consider' appointing Supreme Court justices who would overturn same-sex marriage.\" Later in the campaign, he held a rainbow flag onstage in Greeley, Colorado to appeal to his gay supporters. Soon after his election, Trump said that the law on same-sex marriage was settled \"and I'm fine with that.\"\n\nIn a February 2000 interview with \"The Advocate\", Trump said he supported amending the Civil Rights Act of 1964 to include the category of sexual orientation and supported federal hate crime legislation that would cover sexual orientation.\n\nTrump has offered qualified support for the First Amendment Defense Act, which aims to protect those who oppose same-sex marriage based on their religious beliefs from action by the federal government, such as revocation of tax-exempt status, grants, loans, benefits, or employment. Trump said, \"If Congress considers the First Amendment Defense Act a priority, then I will do all I can to make sure it comes to my desk for signatures and enactment.\"\n\nIn April 2015, when asked about the Indiana's Religious Freedom Restoration Act, Trump responded that Indiana Governor (and future running mate) Mike Pence \"didn't do a good job. He wasn't clear in what he said.\" Trump then asserted that religious freedom and nondiscrimination aren't \"mutually exclusive.\"\n\nIn April 2016, Trump criticized North Carolina's North Carolina House Bill 2, which eliminates all private employment and public accommodation anti-discrimination laws not covered by statewide law, and legislates that in government buildings, individuals may only use restrooms and changing facilities that correspond to the sex on their birth certificates, saying: \"North Carolina did something that was very strong and they're paying a big price. ... You leave it the way it is. There have been very few complaints the way it is. People go, they use the bathroom they feel is appropriate, there has been so little trouble, and the problem with what happened in North Carolina is the strife, and the economic punishment that they're taking.\" Trump stated: \"I fully understand if they [North Carolina] want to go through, but they are losing business and they are having a lot of people come out against.\" The bill is controversial because it prevents transgender people who do not or cannot alter their birth certificates from using the restroom consistent with their gender identity. Later that April, Trump took the position that states have the right to enact such legislation and that the federal government should not become involved. He did not express an opinion on whether the law was right or wrong. In July 2016, Trump again emphasized a states' rights approach regarding HB2, saying, \"The state, they know what's going on, they see what's happening and generally speaking I'm with the state on things like this. I've spoken with your governor, I've spoken with a lot of people and I'm going with the state.\"\n\nIn a February 2000 interview with \"The Advocate\", Trump stated in response to the murder of Matthew Shepard and James Byrd that he wanted a more \"tolerant society\" and he would \"absolutely\" support hate crime legislation on the basis of their race, ethnicity, and sexual orientation.\n\nIn an October 1999 appearance on \"Meet the Press\", Trump said gays openly serving in the military was \"not something that would disturb me.\" At a rally in October 2016, Candidate Trump called the open military service of transgender Americans a result of a \"political correct military\" and said that he would \"very strongly\" defer to the recommendations of top military officers on the issue of transgender military personnel.\n\nIn 2000, Trump stated \"he believes that marriage is between a man and a woman.\" During his 2016 campaign for the presidency, he said that he supported \"traditional marriage\" and opposed same-sex marriage.\n\nIn June 2015, when asked about the \"Obergefell v. Hodges\" ruling, he said: \"I would have preferred states, you know, making the decision and I let that be known. But they made the decision. ... So, at a certain point you have to be realistic about it.\" Later, in the run up to the Iowa caucuses on February 1, 2016, Trump stated that if elected he would strongly consider appointing Supreme Court justices that would overturn \"Obergefell\". When asked if gay couples should be able access the same benefits as married couples, Trump said that his \"attitude on it has not been fully formed.\" \"The Advocate\", an American LGBT-interest magazine, characterized Trump's Supreme Court picks as \"LGBT-unfriendly,\" noting that \"not all have ruled in LGBT rights cases, but those who have are largely unsympathetic, and some have the backing of anti-LGBT activists.\"\n\nIn November 2016, shortly after the presidential election, Trump told Lesley Stahl on \"60 Minutes\" that his personal view on same-sex marriage was \"irrelevant\" and that he was \"fine with\" same-sex marriage, stating that the issue was \"settled\" in the \"Obergefell\" decision.\n\nTrump is the first Republican presidential nominee to mention the LGBT community at a Republican National Convention acceptance speech, saying in his acceptance speech at the 2016 Republican National Convention: \"As your president, I will do everything in my power to protect our LGBTQ citizens from the violence and oppression of a hateful foreign ideology\"—a reference to fundamentalist Islam.\n\nAs a political candidate, Trump largely avoided issues related to lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender rights, even while many in his family — including daughter Ivanka Trump — have been vocal supporters of LGBT people. But since taking office, the Trump administration has rolled back a number of protections, including those for transgender schoolchildren.\n\nOn January 30, 2017, Donald Trump and the White House stated that they would keep in place a 2014 executive order from the Obama administration which created federal workplace protections for LGBT people, with the White House released a statement saying that the President was \"respectful and supportive of LGBTQ rights\" and noted that he was the first Republican nominee to raise the issue in his acceptance speech as the 2016 Republican National Convention. However, in March 2017, the Trump administration rolled back key components of the Obama administration's workplace protections for LGBT people. The Trump administration rescinded requirements that federal contractors prove that they are complying with the LGBT workplace protections, which makes it difficult to tell if a contractor had refrained from discriminatory practices against LGBT individuals. LGBT advocates have argued that this is a signal that the Trump administration will not enforce workplace violations against LGBT people.\n\nIn February 2017, Trump's Justice Department withdrew a motion that had previously been filed by the Justice Department, \"seeking to allow transgender students in public schools to use the restroom with which they identify.\" The move, which occurred within two days of Jeff Sessions becoming U.S. Attorney General, was condemned by the Human Rights Campaign, an LGBT rights advocacy group.\n\nAlso in February, the Trump administration kept U.S. diplomat Randy W. Berry in his position as the State Department's Special Envoy for the Human Rights of LGBTI Persons, a post created in 2015 under the Obama administration. This move surprised pro-LGBT rights groups such as GLAAD and was a defeat for Christian right groups such as the Family Research Council, which \"implored Trump to launch a major purge of pro-LGBT diplomats inside Foggy Bottom.\" But the position was vacant less than six months later. Berry was reassigned. The position remained vacant as of 2018.\n\nIn March 2017, the Trump administration rolled back efforts to collect data on LGBT Americans. The Health and Human Services removed a question about sexual orientation in a survey of the elderly. The U.S. Census Bureau, which had planned to ask about sexual orientation and gender identity in the 2020 Census and the American Community Survey, scrapped those plans in March 2017.\n\nOn July 26, 2017, Trump announced on Twitter that transgender people would not be allowed to serve in the military \"in any capacity\", saying that American forces could not afford the \"tremendous medical costs and disruption\" of transgender service members. However, a RAND study of 18 countries that allow transgender individuals to serve in the military found \"little or no impact on unit cohesion, operational effectiveness, or readiness.\" Also, according to the \"Scientific American\", studies have shown that the medical costs for transgender service members would be \"minimal\". Pentagon officials expressed dismay that Trump's tweets could open them up to lawsuits and the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff said that the policy on who is allowed to serve would not change until the White House sends the Defense Department new rules and the secretary of defense issues new guidelines. On August 25 Trump signed a memo prohibiting transgender individuals from joining the armed services unless the Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of Homeland Security recommend otherwise. The departments of Defense and Homeland Security are directed to determine what to do about currently serving transgender individuals.\n\nAlso on July 26, the Department of Justice argued in court that federal civil rights law does not ban employers from discriminating against employees based on sexual orientation. The Obama administration had decided that it did.\n\nThe policy change faced legal challenges. Following a challenge in the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia, on October 30, 2017 Judge Colleen Kollar-Kotelly blocked enforcement of the ban, writing that as far as could be seen, \"all of the reasons proffered by the president for excluding transgender individuals from the military in this case were not merely unsupported, but were actually contradicted by the studies, conclusions and judgment of the military itself\". In March 2018, Trump announced a new policy on transgender service members, namely a ban on those with a diagnosis of gender dysphoria, which would effectively be a ban on most transgender service members. The new policy was challenged in the U.S. District Court for the Western District of Washington. On April 13, 2018 Judge Marsha J. Pechman blocked enforcement of the policy, ruling that the administration's updated policy essentially repeated the same issues as its predecessor order from 2017, and that transgender service members (and transgender individuals as a class) were a protected class entitled to strict scrutiny of adverse laws (or at worst, a quasi-suspect class), and ordered that matter continue to a full trial hearing on the legality of the proposed policy.\n\nOn November 23rd 2018, the Trump-appointed officials removed the Office of Personnel Management guidance intended to protect transitioning employees against adverse actions.\n\nTrump signed a pledge in July 2016 that he would work to combat both legal pornography and illegal pornography, such as child pornography. In the pledge, put forth by the anti-pornography group Enough Is Enough, Trump promised to \"give serious consideration to appointing a Presidential Commission to examine the harmful public health impact of Internet pornography on youth, families and the American culture and the prevention of the sexual exploitation of children in the digital age.\"\n\nOn National Security Agency (NSA) surveillance, Trump says that he \"tends to err on the side of security\" over privacy. Trump supports bringing back now-expired provisions of the Patriot Act to allow for the NSA to collect and store bulk telephone metadata. Trump said: \"I assume that when I pick up my telephone, people are listening to my conversations anyway.\"\n\nIn February 2016, Trump urged his supporters to boycott Apple Inc. unless the company agrees to build a custom backdoor for the FBI to unlock the password-protected iPhone connected to one of the perpetrators of the 2015 San Bernardino shooting, a move that Apple argues would threaten the security and privacy of its users. Trump himself still uses his iPhone to send out tweets.\n\nDonald Trump is consistent in finding no fault on the part of law enforcement when it clashes with racial minorities and in dismissing contrary evidence. In April 2017, Trump was accused of being Islamophobic while presenting Executive Order 13769, which blocked people from seven Muslim-majority countries from entering the United States.\n\nTrump has criticized the Black Lives Matter movement and accused former President Obama of \"dividing America.\" Speaking to Bill O'Reilly during his presidential campaign, Trump said that he may direct his Attorney General to look into the Black Lives Matter movement for criminal charges. When asked if he believes there to be a racial divide in America, Trump answered, \"Sadly, there would seem to be...and it's probably not been much worse at any time.\" When asked if he believes police treat African Americans differently than whites, Trump answered, \"It could be.\" Trump describes the police killings of Alton Sterling and Philando Castile as \"tough to watch\" and criticized the \"terrible, disgusting performance\" by police. Trump said that he could relate to the systemic bias African Americans faced against whites, saying, \"even against me the system is rigged when I ran ... for president.\" When asked if he could understand the experience of being African American, Trump replied, \"I would like to say yes, but you really can't unless you are African American. You can't truly understand what's going on unless you are African American. I would like to say yes, however.\"\n\nOn November 19, 2015, a week after the November 2015 Paris attacks, when asked if he would implement a database system to track Muslims in the United States, Trump said: \"I would certainly implement that. Absolutely. There should be a lot of systems, beyond databases. We should have a lot of systems.\" On November 21, Trump clarified that he doesn't support any registry of Muslims in the US and said that his earlier supportive remarks for surveilling Muslims were due to efforts by news media to entrap him. He however said that he would order \"surveillance of certain mosques\" to combat \"Islamic extremism\", alluding to the New York Police Department's use of informants in mosques after the September 11 attacks. Trump also spoke in favor of a database on Syrian refugees without clarifying how it would be different from the records already kept by federal agencies. Trump's support for a database of American Muslims \"drew sharp rebukes from his Republican presidential rivals and disbelief from legal experts.\" Trump justified his proposals by repeatedly saying that he recalled \"thousands and thousands of people ... cheering\" in Jersey City, New Jersey, when the World Trade Center towers fell. PolitiFact noted that this statement was false and gave it a \"Pants on Fire\" rating. It reported that the rating was based on some debunked rumors and also that there were only eight people (suggested by unproven media reports) purported to be seen cheering, as opposed to Trump's claim of \"thousands and thousands\". Jersey City Mayor Steve Fulop called Trump's claim \"absurd\" and said that Trump \"has memory issues or willfully distorts the truth.\"\n\nIn June 2017, the Department of Homeland Security dropped a planned 400,000 dollar grant to \"Life After Hate\", a program which was intended to de-radicalize Neo-Nazis and stop white extremism. The change came following a review of priorities, begun during the Obama administration, with regards to a 10 million dollar DHS umbrella grant program for \"Countering Violent Extremism\". \n\nIn August 2017, Trump condemned violence \"on many sides\" after a car plowed into counter-protesters during a gathering of hundreds of white nationalists in Charlottesville, Virginia the previous day, on August 12. Trump did not expressly mention Neo-Nazis, white supremacists, the alt-right movement, or counter protesters in his remarks. Whereas Republican and Democratic elected officials condemned the violence and hatred of white nationalists, neo-Nazis and alt-right activists, \"The New York Times\" noted that Trump \"was the only national political figure to spread blame for the \"hatred, bigotry and violence\" that resulted in the death of one person to 'many sides. Two days later, Trump condemned \"the KKK, neo-Nazis, white supremacists, and other hate groups\". Then the next day, he returned to his initial comments, blaming \"both sides\". Trump came under criticism from world leaders and politicians, as well as a variety of religious groups and anti-hate organizations for his remarks, which were seen as muted and equivocal.\n\nIn a 1989 interview with Larry King, Trump stated: \"The problem with our society is the victim has absolutely no rights and the criminal has unbelievable rights\" and that \"maybe hate is what we need if we're gonna get something done.\"\n\nIn 2016, Trump decried the fact that Ahmad Khan Rahami, a U.S. citizen charged in connection with the bombings in New York and New Jersey, would be provided with medical treatment and the right to counsel, calling this \"sad.\"\n\nAt the second presidential debate, which took place in October 2016, Trump said that if he was \"in charge of the law of our country,\" rival presidential contender Hillary Clinton would \"be in jail.\"\nIn the same debate, Trump also pledged that if elected, he would direct his attorney general to appoint a special prosecutor to \"look into\" Clinton. Clinton campaign manager Robby Mook called the remark \"chilling\" and said: \"Trump thinks that the presidency is like some banana republic dictatorship where you can lock up your political opponents.\" The remark was viewed as part of \"a litany of statements [Trump] has made during the campaign that many legal specialists have portrayed as a threat to the rule of law.\" The remark was condemned by a number of prominent Republican lawyers, such as Paul K. Charlton, Marc Jimenez, and Peter Zeidenberg, as well as David B. Rivkin and Michael Chertoff. Trump campaign manager Kellyanne Conway said that the \"jail\" comment was merely \"a quip.\"\n\nLater that October, Trump spoke fondly of the \"Lock her up\" chants at his rally, saying \"Lock her up is right.\" He also said that Clinton's legal representatives \"have to go to jail\". However, in November, after winning the election, Trump told reporters from the \"New York Times\" that he would not recommend prosecution of Clinton, saying that it was \"just not something (he) feel(s) very strongly about\" and suggesting that Clinton had \"suffered greatly\". He repeated this stance in public at a rally in Michigan the following month, responding to \"Lock her up\" chants from the crowd by saying: \"That plays great before the election - now we don't care, right?\".\n\nIn August 2016, Trump said that he \"would be fine\" with trying U.S. citizens accused of terrorism in military tribunals at the Guantanamo Bay Naval Base at Guantánamo Bay, Cuba. Under current federal law (specifically, the Military Commissions Act of 2006), trying U.S. citizens at military commissions is illegal; only \"alien unlawful enemy combatants\" may be tried in such commissions.\n\nIn February 2016, Trump said that he approved of the use of waterboarding and \"a hell of a lot worse.\" He said that \"torture works\" and called waterboarding a \"minor form\" of torture. Speaking with Sean Hannity on Fox News on January 26, 2017, Trump termed \nwaterboarding \"just short of torture,\" and said, \"I will tell you, though, it works. And I just spoke to people who told me it worked, and that's what they do.\" However, he said that he would rely on the advice of his defense secretary, James Mattis and others and, \"If they don't wanna do, that's fine. If they do wanna do, then I will work for that end.\" \n\nTrump opposes same-day voter registration, supports voter identification laws, asserted that Obama won in 2012 due to voter fraud, has charged that the election system would be rigged against him in the 2016 race, and has equivocated on whether he would accept the outcome of the 2016 election.\n\nTrump has asserted that America's \"voting system is out of control,\" alleging that \"you have people, in my opinion, that are voting many, many times,\" even though the number of cases of voter fraud in the U.S. is minuscule. Trump opposes same-day voter registration, alleging that this allows non-citizens to vote in U.S. elections and that voting laws should prevent people from \"[sneaking] in through the cracks.\" PolitiFact ruled Trump's claim about voter fraud false, noting that according to experts, \"there is no additional risk of noncitizens casting ballots in states with same-day voter registration, nor is there any evidence that this occurs.\"\n\nWhile he has repeatedly charged during his candidacy that the election system is rigged against him, Trump's statements became bolder and more specific in August 2016. He alleged that the only way he would only lose Pennsylvania if \"cheating goes on\", and that voters will cast their ballots \"15 times\" for Clinton without voter ID laws. \"The Wall Street Journal\" notes that several voter ID laws have been struck down in several states recently, with courts ruling that they unfairly discriminate against minority voters, and that \"there is no evidence of widespread voter fraud occurring in recent U.S. elections.\" According to Dartmouth political scientist Brendan Nyhan, Trump's rhetoric \"threatens the norms of American elections and could provoke a damaging reaction among his supporters.\"\n\nIn the September 2016 presidential debate, when asked if he would honor the outcome of the election, Trump said that he \"absolutely\" would. Four days later, Trump appeared to have reconsidered his statement from the debate, saying \"We're going to have to see. We're going to see what happens. We're going to have to see.\" In early- and mid-October 2016, Trump repeatedly claimed that the election was \"rigged\" and alleged that the media coordinated with the Clinton campaign, citing Alec Baldwin's portrayal of him on \"Saturday Night Live\". In October 2016, after early voting and voting by mail had begun in many states, Trump claimed, without evidence, that \"\"The election is absolutely being rigged\" at \"many polling places.\" That same month, Trump asserted, also without evidence, that the federal government was allowing illegal immigrants to come into the U.S. so they can vote. \"PolitiFact\" found Trump's claim of \"large scale voter fraud\" false, giving it a \"Pants-on-fire\" rating.\n\nTrump has claimed that \"dead people voted for President Obama\" and that \"dead voters... helped get President Obama elected.\" and alleged that voting machines were \"switching\" votes for the Republican nominee, Mitt Romney, to votes for Obama. On election night 2012, Trump expressed skepticism about Obama's victory, saying, among other things, \"This election is a total sham and a travesty. We are not a democracy!\" Additionally, when it seemed like Mitt Romney may have gained the popular vote but lost the electoral college vote, Trump called the electoral college system \"a disaster for democracy\", calling for \"a revolution in this country\".\n\nSince his election in November 2016—in which he won the electoral college but received 2.8 million fewer votes nationally than Clinton—Trump has repeatedly insisted, without evidence, that he actually won the popular vote if one excludes \"3 to 5 million illegal votes\" cast for his opponent. This claim is false. After taking office, Trump said he would launch a major investigation into these unsubstantiated allegations, and appointing his Vice President, Mike Pence, to head a White House commission to do so. Trump eventually followed through with that promise, announcing the creation of a commission to investigate voter fraud via an executive order on May 11, 2017. On June 29, 2017, the vice-chairman of Trump's voter fraud commission, former Kansas Secretary of State Kris Kobach, instructed the secretaries of state for all 50 states to provide the commission with voter roll data, though most refused to provide some voter information, citing concerns of privacy. This prompted President Trump to remark on Twitter, \"Numerous states are refusing to give information to the very distinguished VOTER FRAUD PANEL. What are they trying to hide?\".\n\nIn 2013, Trump questioned the wisdom of allowing women to serve, linking gender-integrated forces with higher rates of sexual assault \"26,000 unreported sexual assaults in the military-only 238 convictions. What did these geniuses expect when they put men & women together?\" In 2014, Trump stated that it was \"bedlam\" to bring women into the army. In August 2015, Trump said he would support women in combat roles \"because they're really into it and some of them are really, really good.\"\n"}
{"id": "54309552", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54309552", "title": "Steve Allin", "text": "Steve Allin\n\nSteve Allin (born 1955) is an author, teacher and pioneer in the use of hemp in construction and director of the International Hemp Building Association.\n\nAllin begun using hemp and lime as a natural construction material in 1997 which led him to write and published Building with Hemp in 2005, the first published book on using hemp as a building system. He has contributed to The Green Building Bible and Local Sustainable Homes and has written articles for magazines Self-Build, Cannabis Culture, Construct Ireland, Energy Blitz, Hanf and New Observations Magazine. He founded the International Hemp Building Association in 2009, after hosting a symposium on the subject in Kenmare, Ireland.\n\nHe advocates the use of hemp as a construction material for it’s ecological production and low carbon footprint both as a material and the subsequent use, energy wise of the structure in a sustainable way and has stated.\n\nAllin introduced hemp building to the US after holding a course in Prescott, Wisconsin in 2012. In 2013 he introduced the system to Finland when he held a course in Turku and then in Sweden in Kristianstad. He also introduced hemp building to Nepal in 2015, demonstrating the system for part of a hospital in Janakpur and again in 2017 to Costa Rica, teaching a workshop in Flamingo, Guanacaste. He is currently involved in projects to rebuild with hemp in the post-earthquake areas of Haiti and Nepal and is a senior adviser at HempToday magazine.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "87231", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87231", "title": "Surveillance", "text": "Surveillance\n\nIn espionage and counterintelligence, surveillance ( or ) is the monitoring of behavior, activities, or other changing information for the purpose of influencing, managing, directing, or protecting people. This can include observation from a distance by means of electronic equipment (such as closed-circuit television (CCTV) cameras) or interception of electronically transmitted information (such as Internet traffic or phone calls). It can also include simple no- or relatively low-technology methods such as human intelligence agent and postal interception. The word \"\" comes from a French phrase for \"watching over\" (\"sur\" means \"from above\" and \"veiller\" means \"to watch\") and is in contrast to more recent developments such as sousveillance.\n\nSurveillance is used by governments for intelligence gathering, prevention of crime, the protection of a process, person, group or object, or the investigation of crime. It is also used by criminal organisations to plan and commit crimes, such as robbery and kidnapping, by businesses to gather intelligence, and by private investigators.\n\nSurveillance can be viewed as a violation of privacy, and as such is often opposed by various civil liberties groups and activists. Liberal democracies have laws which restrict domestic government and private use of surveillance, usually limiting it to circumstances where public safety is at risk. Authoritarian government seldom have any domestic restrictions, and international espionage is common among all types of countries.\n\nThe area of surveillance is increasingly a topic of academic study, including through research centers, books, and peer-reviewed academic journals. \"In the future, intelligence services might use the internet of things for identification, surveillance, monitoring, location tracking, and targeting for recruitment, or to gain access to networks or user credentials,\" Clapper said.\n\nThe vast majority of computer surveillance involves the monitoring of data and traffic on the Internet. In the United States for example, under the Communications Assistance For Law Enforcement Act, all phone calls and broadband Internet traffic (emails, web traffic, instant messaging, etc.) are required to be available for unimpeded real-time monitoring by federal law enforcement agencies.\n\nThere is far too much data on the Internet for human investigators to manually search through all of it. Therefore, automated Internet surveillance computers sift through the vast amount of intercepted Internet traffic to identify and report to human investigators the traffic that is considered interesting or suspicious. This process is regulated by targeting certain \"trigger\" words or phrases, visiting certain types of web sites, or communicating via email or online chat with suspicious individuals or groups. Billions of dollars per year are spent by agencies, such as the NSA, the FBI and the now-defunct Information Awareness Office, to develop, purchase, implement, and operate systems such as Carnivore, NarusInsight, and ECHELON to intercept and analyze all of this data to only extract the information which is useful to law enforcement and intelligence agencies.\n\nComputers can be a surveillance target because of the personal data stored on them. If someone is able to install software, such as the FBI's Magic Lantern and CIPAV, on a computer system, they can easily gain unauthorized access to this data. Such software could be installed physically or remotely. Another form of computer surveillance, known as van Eck phreaking, involves reading electromagnetic emanations from computing devices in order to extract data from them at distances of hundreds of meters. The NSA runs a database known as \"Pinwale\", which stores and indexes large numbers of emails of both American citizens and foreigners. Additionally, the NSA runs a program known as PRISM, which is a data mining system that gives the United States government direct access to information from technology companies. Through accessing this information, the government is able to obtain search history, emails, stored information, live chats, file transfers, and more. This program generated huge controversies in regards to surveillance and privacy, especially from U.S. citizens.\n\nThe official and unofficial tapping of telephone lines is widespread. In the United States for instance, the Communications Assistance For Law Enforcement Act (CALEA) requires that all telephone and VoIP communications be available for real-time wiretapping by Federal law enforcement and intelligence agencies. Two major telecommunications companies in the U.S.—AT&T Inc. and Verizon—have contracts with the FBI, requiring them to keep their phone call records easily searchable and accessible for Federal agencies, in return for $1.8 million per year. Between 2003 and 2005, the FBI sent out more than 140,000 \"National Security Letters\" ordering phone companies to hand over information about their customers' calling and Internet histories. About half of these letters requested information on U.S. citizens.\n\nHuman agents are not required to monitor most calls. Speech-to-text software creates machine-readable text from intercepted audio, which is then processed by automated call-analysis programs, such as those developed by agencies such as the Information Awareness Office, or companies such as Verint, and Narus, which search for certain words or phrases, to decide whether to dedicate a human agent to the call.\n\nLaw enforcement and intelligence services in the United Kingdom and the United States possess technology to activate the microphones in cell phones remotely, by accessing phones' diagnostic or maintenance features in order to listen to conversations that take place near the person who holds the phone.\n\nThe StingRay tracker is an example of one of these tools used to monitor cell phone usage in the United States and the United Kingdom. Originally developed for counterterrorism purposes by the military, they work by broadcasting powerful signals that cause nearby cell phones to transmit their IMSI number, just as they would to normal cell phone towers. Once the phone is connected to the device, there is no way for the user to know that they are being tracked. The operator of the stingray is able to extract information such as location, phone calls, and text messages, but it is widely believed that the capabilities of the StingRay extend much further. A lot of controversy surrounds the StingRay because of its powerful capabilities and the secrecy that surrounds it.\n\nMobile phones are also commonly used to collect location data. The geographical location of a mobile phone (and thus the person carrying it) can be determined easily even when the phone is not being used, using a technique known as multilateration to calculate the differences in time for a signal to travel from the cell phone to each of several cell towers near the owner of the phone. The legality of such techniques has been questioned in the United States, in particular whether a court warrant is required. Records for \"one\" carrier alone (Sprint), showed that in a given year federal law enforcement agencies requested customer location data 8 million times.\n\nIn response to customers' privacy concerns in the post Edward Snowden era, Apple's iPhone 6 has been designed to disrupt investigative wiretapping efforts. The phone encrypts e-mails, contacts, and photos with a code generated by a complex mathematical algorithm that is unique to an individual phone, and is inaccessible to Apple. The encryption feature on the iPhone 6 has drawn criticism from FBI director James B. Comey and other law enforcement officials since even lawful requests to access user content on the iPhone 6 will result in Apple supplying \"gibberish\" data that requires law enforcement personnel to either break the code themselves or to get the code from the phone's owner. Because the Snowden leaks demonstrated that American agencies can access phones anywhere in the world, privacy concerns in countries with growing markets for smart phones have intensified, providing a strong incentive for companies like Apple to address those concerns in order to secure their position in the global market.\n\nAlthough the CALEA requires telecommunication companies to build into their systems the ability to carry out a lawful wiretap, the law has not been updated to address the issue of smart phones and requests for access to e-mails and metadata. The Snowden leaks show that the NSA has been taking advantage of this ambiguity in the law by collecting metadata on \"at least hundreds of millions\" of \"incidental\" targets from around the world. The NSA uses an analytic tool known as CO-TRAVELER in order to track people whose movements intersect and to find any hidden connections with persons of interest.\n\nThe Snowden leaks have also revealed that the British Government Communications Headquarters (GCHQ) can access information collected by the NSA on American citizens. Once the data has been collected, the GCHQ can hold on to it for up to two years. The deadline can be extended with the permission of a \"senior UK official\".\n\nSurveillance cameras are video cameras used for the purpose of observing an area. They are often connected to a recording device or IP network, and may be watched by a security guard or law enforcement officer. Cameras and recording equipment used to be relatively expensive and required human personnel to monitor camera footage, but analysis of footage has been made easier by automated software that organizes digital video footage into a searchable database, and by video analysis software (such as VIRAT and HumanID). The amount of footage is also drastically reduced by motion sensors which only record when motion is detected. With cheaper production techniques, surveillance cameras are simple and inexpensive enough to be used in home security systems, and for everyday surveillance.\n\nThere are about 350 million surveillance cameras worldwide as of 2016. About 65% of these cameras are installed in Asia. The growth of CCTV has been slowing in recent years. In 2018, China was reported to have a huge surveillance network of over 170 million CCTV cameras with 400 million new cameras expected to be installed in the next three years, many of which use facial recognition technology.\n\nIn the United States, the Department of Homeland Security awards billions of dollars per year in Homeland Security grants for local, state, and federal agencies to install modern video surveillance equipment. For example, the city of Chicago, Illinois, recently used a $5.1 million Homeland Security grant to install an additional 250 surveillance cameras, and connect them to a centralized monitoring center, along with its preexisting network of over 2000 cameras, in a program known as Operation Virtual Shield. Speaking in 2009, Chicago Mayor Richard Daley announced that Chicago would have a surveillance camera on every street corner by the year 2016.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, the vast majority of video surveillance cameras are not operated by government bodies, but by private individuals or companies, especially to monitor the interiors of shops and businesses. According to 2011 Freedom of Information Act requests, the total number of local government operated CCTV cameras was around 52,000 over the entirety of the UK. The prevalence of video surveillance in the UK is often overstated due to unreliable estimates being requoted; for example one report in 2002 extrapolated from a very small sample to estimate the number of cameras in the UK at 4.2 million (of which 500,000 in Greater London). More reliable estimates put the number of private and local government operated cameras in the United Kingdom at around 1.85 million in 2011.\n\nIn the Netherlands, one example city where there are cameras is The Hague. There, cameras are placed in city districts in which the most illegal activity is concentrated. Examples are the red-light districts and the train stations.\n\nAs part of China's Golden Shield Project, several U.S. corporations, including IBM, General Electric, and Honeywell, have been working closely with the Chinese government to install millions of surveillance cameras throughout China, along with advanced video analytics and facial recognition software, which will identify and track individuals everywhere they go. They will be connected to a centralized database and monitoring station, which will, upon completion of the project, contain a picture of the face of every person in China: over 1.3 billion people. Lin Jiang Huai, the head of China's \"Information Security Technology\" office (which is in charge of the project), credits the surveillance systems in the United States and the U.K. as the inspiration for what he is doing with the Golden Shield Project.\nThe Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA) is funding a research project called Combat Zones That See that will link up cameras across a city to a centralized monitoring station, identify and track individuals and vehicles as they move through the city, and report \"suspicious\" activity (such as waving arms, looking side-to-side, standing in a group, etc.).\n\nAt Super Bowl XXXV in January 2001, police in Tampa, Florida, used Identix's facial recognition software, FaceIt, to scan the crowd for potential criminals and terrorists in attendance at the event (it found 19 people with pending arrest warrants).\n\nGovernments often initially claim that cameras are meant to be used for traffic control, but many of them end up using them for general surveillance. For example, Washington, D.C. had 5,000 \"traffic\" cameras installed under this premise, and then after they were all in place, networked them all together and then granted access to the Metropolitan Police Department, so they could perform \"day-to-day monitoring\".\n\nThe development of centralized networks of CCTV cameras watching public areas – linked to computer databases of people's pictures and identity (biometric data), able to track people's movements throughout the city, and identify whom they have been with – has been argued by some to present a risk to civil liberties. Trapwire is an example of such a network.\n\nOne common form of surveillance is to create maps of social networks based on data from social networking sites such as Facebook, MySpace, Twitter as well as from traffic analysis information from phone call records such as those in the NSA call database, and others. These social network \"maps\" are then data mined to extract useful information such as personal interests, friendships & affiliations, wants, beliefs, thoughts, and activities.\n\nMany U.S. government agencies such as the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA), the National Security Agency (NSA), and the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) are investing heavily in research involving social network analysis. The intelligence community believes that the biggest threat to U.S. power comes from decentralized, leaderless, geographically dispersed groups of terrorists, subversives, extremists, and dissidents. These types of threats are most easily countered by finding important nodes in the network, and removing them. To do this requires a detailed map of the network.\n\nJason Ethier of Northeastern University, in his study of modern social network analysis, said the following of the Scalable Social Network Analysis Program developed by the Information Awareness Office:\n\nAT&T developed a programming language called \"Hancock\", which is able to sift through enormous databases of phone call and Internet traffic records, such as the NSA call database, and extract \"communities of interest\"—groups of people who call each other regularly, or groups that regularly visit certain sites on the Internet. AT&T originally built the system to develop \"marketing leads\", but the FBI has regularly requested such information from phone companies such as AT&T without a warrant, and, after using the data, stores all information received in its own databases, regardless of whether or not the information was ever useful in an investigation.\n\nSome people believe that the use of social networking sites is a form of \"participatory surveillance\", where users of these sites are essentially performing surveillance on themselves, putting detailed personal information on public websites where it can be viewed by corporations and governments. In 2008, about 20% of employers reported using social networking sites to collect personal data on prospective or current employees.\n\nBiometric surveillance is a technology that measures and analyzes human physical and/or behavioral characteristics for authentication, identification, or screening purposes. Examples of physical characteristics include fingerprints, DNA, and facial patterns. Examples of mostly behavioral characteristics include gait (a person's manner of walking) or voice.\n\nFacial recognition is the use of the unique configuration of a person's facial features to accurately identify them, usually from surveillance video. Both the Department of Homeland Security and DARPA are heavily funding research into facial recognition systems. The Information Processing Technology Office ran a program known as Human Identification at a Distance which developed technologies that are capable of identifying a person at up to by their facial features.\n\nAnother form of behavioral biometrics, based on affective computing, involves computers recognizing a person's emotional state based on an analysis of their facial expressions, how fast they are talking, the tone and pitch of their voice, their posture, and other behavioral traits. This might be used for instance to see if a person's behavior is suspect (looking around furtively, \"tense\" or \"angry\" facial expressions, waving arms, etc.).\n\nA more recent development is DNA profiling, which looks at some of the major markers in the body's DNA to produce a match. The FBI is spending $1 billion to build a new biometric database, which will store DNA, facial recognition data, iris/retina (eye) data, fingerprints, palm prints, and other biometric data of people living in the United States. The computers running the database are contained in an underground facility about the size of two American football fields.\n\nThe Los Angeles Police Department is installing automated facial recognition and license plate recognition devices in its squad cars, and providing handheld face scanners, which officers will use to identify people while on patrol.\n\nFacial thermographs are in development, which allow machines to identify certain emotions in people such as fear or stress, by measuring the temperature generated by blood flow to different parts of the face. Law enforcement officers believe that this has potential for them to identify when a suspect is nervous, which might indicate that they are hiding something, lying, or worried about something.\n\nAerial surveillance is the gathering of surveillance, usually visual imagery or video, from an airborne vehicle—such as an unmanned aerial vehicle, helicopter, or spy plane. Military surveillance aircraft use a range of sensors (e.g. radar) to monitor the battlefield.\n\nDigital imaging technology, miniaturized computers, and numerous other technological advances over the past decade have contributed to rapid advances in aerial surveillance hardware such as micro-aerial vehicles, forward-looking infrared, and high-resolution imagery capable of identifying objects at extremely long distances. For instance, the MQ-9 Reaper, a U.S. drone plane used for domestic operations by the Department of Homeland Security, carries cameras that are capable of identifying an object the size of a milk carton from altitudes of 60,000 feet, and has forward-looking infrared devices that can detect the heat from a human body at distances of up to 60 kilometers. In an earlier instance of commercial aerial surveillance, the Killington Mountain ski resort hired 'eye in the sky' aerial photography of its competitors' parking lots to judge the success of its marketing initiatives as it developed starting in the 1950s.\n\nThe United States Department of Homeland Security is in the process of testing UAVs to patrol the skies over the United States for the purposes of critical infrastructure protection, border patrol, \"transit monitoring\", and general surveillance of the U.S. population. Miami-Dade police department ran tests with a vertical take-off and landing UAV from Honeywell, which is planned to be used in SWAT operations. Houston's police department has been testing fixed-wing UAVs for use in \"traffic control\".\n\nThe United Kingdom, as well, is working on plans to build up a fleet of surveillance UAVs ranging from micro-aerial vehicles to full-size drones, to be used by police forces throughout the U.K.\n\nIn addition to their surveillance capabilities, MAVs are capable of carrying tasers for \"crowd control\", or weapons for killing enemy combatants.\n\nPrograms such as the Heterogeneous Aerial Reconnaissance Team program developed by DARPA have automated much of the aerial surveillance process. They have developed systems consisting of large teams drone planes that pilot themselves, automatically decide who is \"suspicious\" and how to go about monitoring them, coordinate their activities with other drones nearby, and notify human operators if something suspicious is occurring. This greatly increases the amount of area that can be continuously monitored, while reducing the number of human operators required. Thus a swarm of automated, self-directing drones can automatically patrol a city and track suspicious individuals, reporting their activities back to a centralized monitoring station.\nIn addition, researchers also investigate possibilities of autonomous surveillance by large groups of micro aerial vehicles stabilized by decentralized bio-inspired swarming rules.\n\nData mining is the application of statistical techniques and programmatic algorithms to discover previously unnoticed relationships within the data. Data profiling in this context is the process of assembling information about a particular individual or group in order to generate a profile — that is, a picture of their patterns and behavior. Data profiling can be an extremely powerful tool for psychological and social network analysis. A skilled analyst can discover facts about a person that they might not even be consciously aware of themselves.\n\nEconomic (such as credit card purchases) and social (such as telephone calls and emails) transactions in modern society create large amounts of stored data and records. In the past, this data was documented in paper records, leaving a \"paper trail\", or was simply not documented at all. Correlation of paper-based records was a laborious process—it required human intelligence operators to manually dig through documents, which was time-consuming and incomplete, at best.\n\nBut today many of these records are electronic, resulting in an \"electronic trail\". Every use of a bank machine, payment by credit card, use of a phone card, call from home, checked out library book, rented video, or otherwise complete recorded transaction generates an electronic record. Public records—such as birth, court, tax and other records—are increasily being digitized and made available online. In addition, due to laws like CALEA, web traffic and online purchases are also available for profiling. Electronic record-keeping makes data easily collectable, storable, and accessible—so that high-volume, efficient aggregation and analysis is possible at significantly lower costs.\n\nInformation relating to many of these individual transactions is often easily available because it is generally not guarded in isolation, since the information, such as the title of a movie a person has rented, might not seem sensitive. However, when many such transactions are aggregated they can be used to assemble a detailed profile revealing the actions, habits, beliefs, locations frequented, social connections, and preferences of the individual. This profile is then used, by programs such as ADVISE and TALON, to determine whether the person is a military, criminal, or political threat.\n\nIn addition to its own aggregation and profiling tools, the government is able to access information from third parties — for example, banks, credit companies or employers, etc. — by requesting access informally, by compelling access through the use of subpoenas or other procedures, or by purchasing data from commercial data aggregators or data brokers. The United States has spent $370 million on its 43 planned fusion centers, which are national network of surveillance centers that are located in over 30 states. The centers will collect and analyze vast amounts of data on U.S. citizens. It will get this data by consolidating personal information from sources such as state driver's licensing agencies, hospital records, criminal records, school records, credit bureaus, banks, etc. – and placing this information in a centralized database that can be accessed from all of the centers, as well as other federal law enforcement and intelligence agencies.\n\nUnder \"United States v. Miller\" (1976), data held by third parties is generally not subject to Fourth Amendment warrant requirements.\n\nCorporate surveillance is the monitoring of a person or group's behavior by a corporation. The data collected is most often used for marketing purposes or sold to other corporations, but is also regularly shared with government agencies. It can be used as a form of business intelligence, which enables the corporation to better tailor their products and/or services to be desirable by their customers. Although there is a common belief that monitoring can increase productivity, it can also create consequences such as increasing chances of deviant behavior and creating punishments that are not equitable to their actions. Additionally, monitoring can cause resistance and backlash because it insinuates an employer’s suspicion and lack of trust.\n\nData collected on individuals and groups can be sold to other corporations, so that they can use it for the aforementioned purpose. It can be used for direct marketing purposes, such as targeted advertisements on Google and Yahoo. These ads are tailored to the individual user of the search engine by analyzing their search history and emails (if they use free webmail services), which is kept in a database.\n\nFor instance, Google, the world's most popular search engine, stores identifying information for each web search. An IP address and the search phrase used are stored in a database for up to 18 months. Google also scans the content of emails of users of its Gmail webmail service, in order to create targeted advertising based on what people are talking about in their personal email correspondences. Google is, by far, the largest Internet advertising agency. Their revenue model is based on receiving payments from advertisers for each page-visit resulting from a visitor clicking on a Google AdWords ad, hosted either on a Google service or a third-party website. Millions of sites place Google's advertising banners and links on their websites, in order to share this profit from visitors who click on the ads. Each page containing Google advertisements adds, reads, and modifies \"cookies\" on each visitor's computer. These cookies track the user across all of these sites, and gather information about their web surfing habits, keeping track of which sites they visit, and what they do when they are on these sites. This information, along with the information from their email accounts, and search engine histories, is stored by Google to use for building a profile of the user to deliver better-targeted advertising.\n\nAccording to the American Management Association and the ePolicy Institute that undertake an annual quantitative survey about electronic monitoring and surveillance with approximately 300 U.S. companies, \"more than one fourth of employers have fired workers for misusing e-mail and nearly one third have fired employees for misusing the Internet\". More than 40% of the companies monitor e-mail traffic of their workers, and 66% of corporations monitor Internet connections. In addition, most companies use software to block non-work related websites such as sexual or pornographic sites, game sites, social networking sites, entertainment sites, shopping sites, and sport sites. The American Management Association and the ePolicy Institute also stress that companies \"tracking content, keystrokes, and time spent at the keyboard ... store and review computer files ... monitor the blogosphere to see what is being written about the company, and ... monitor social networking sites\". Furthermore, about 30% of the companies had also fired employees for non-work related email and Internet usage such as \"inappropriate or offensive language\" and \"viewing, downloading, or uploading inappropriate/offensive content\".\n\nThe United States government often gains access to these databases, either by producing a warrant for it, or by simply asking. The Department of Homeland Security has openly stated that it uses data collected from consumer credit and direct marketing agencies—such as Google—for augmenting the profiles of individuals whom it is monitoring. The FBI, Department of Homeland Security, and other intelligence agencies have formed an \"information-sharing\" partnership with over 34,000 corporations as part of their Infragard program.\n\nThe U.S. Federal government has gathered information from grocery store \"discount card\" programs, which track customers' shopping patterns and store them in databases, in order to look for \"terrorists\" by analyzing shoppers' buying patterns.\n\nOrganizations that have enemies who wish to gather information about the groups' members or activities face the issue of infiltration.\n\nIn addition to operatives' infiltrating an organization, the surveilling party may exert pressure on certain members of the target organization to act as informants (i.e., to disclose the information they hold on the organization and its members).\n\nFielding operatives is very expensive, and for governments with wide-reaching electronic surveillance tools at their disposal the information recovered from operatives can often be obtained from less problematic forms of surveillance such as those mentioned above. Nevertheless, human infiltrators are still common today. For instance, in 2007 documents surfaced showing that the FBI was planning to field a total of 15,000 undercover agents and informants in response to an anti-terrorism directive sent out by George W. Bush in 2004 that ordered intelligence and law enforcement agencies to increase their HUMINT capabilities.\n\nOn May 25, 2007 the U.S. Director of National Intelligence Michael McConnell authorized the National Applications Office (NAO) of the Department of Homeland Security to allow local, state, and domestic Federal agencies to access imagery from military intelligence Reconnaissance satellites and Reconnaissance aircraft sensors which can now be used to observe the activities of U.S. citizens. The satellites and aircraft sensors will be able to penetrate cloud cover, detect chemical traces, and identify objects in buildings and \"underground bunkers\", and will provide real-time video at much higher resolutions than the still-images produced by programs such as Google Earth.\n\nOne of the simplest forms of identification is the carrying of credentials. Some nations have an identity card system to aid identification, whilst others are considering it but face public opposition. Other documents, such as passports, driver's licenses, library cards, banking or credit cards are also used to verify identity.\n\nIf the form of the identity card is \"machine-readable\", usually using an encoded magnetic stripe or identification number (such as a Social Security number), it corroborates the subject's identifying data. In this case it may create an electronic trail when it is checked and scanned, which can be used in profiling, as mentioned above.\n\nRadio Frequency Identification (RFID) tagging is the use of very small electronic devices (called \"RFID tags\") which are applied to or incorporated into a product, animal, or person for the purpose of identification and tracking using radio waves. The tags can be read from several meters away. They are extremely inexpensive, costing a few cents per piece, so they can be inserted into many types of everyday products without significantly increasing the price, and can be used to track and identify these objects for a variety of purposes.\n\nSome companies appear to be \"tagging\" their workers by incorporating RFID tags in employee ID badges. Workers in U.K. considered strike action in protest of having themselves tagged; they felt that it was dehumanizing to have all of their movements tracked with RFID chips. Some critics have expressed fears that people will soon be tracked and scanned everywhere they go. On the other hand, RFID tags in newborn baby ID bracelets put on by hospitals have foiled kidnappings.\nVerichip is an RFID device produced by a company called Applied Digital Solutions (ADS). Verichip is slightly larger than a grain of rice, and is injected under the skin. The injection reportedly feels similar to receiving a shot. The chip is encased in glass, and stores a \"VeriChip Subscriber Number\" which the scanner uses to access their personal information, via the Internet, from Verichip Inc.'s database, the \"Global VeriChip Subscriber Registry\". Thousands of people have already had them inserted. In Mexico, for example, 160 workers at the Attorney General's office were required to have the chip injected for identity verification and access control purposes.\n\nIn a 2003 editorial, CNET News.com's chief political correspondent, Declan McCullagh, speculated that, soon, every object that is purchased, and perhaps ID cards, will have RFID devices in them, which would respond with information about people as they walk past scanners (what type of phone they have, what type of shoes they have on, which books they are carrying, what credit cards or membership cards they have, etc.). This information could be used for identification, tracking, or targeted marketing. , this has largely not come to pass.\n\nIn the U.S., police have planted hidden GPS tracking devices in people's vehicles to monitor their movements, without a warrant. In early 2009, they were arguing in court that they have the right to do this.\n\nSeveral cities are running pilot projects to require parolees to wear GPS devices to track their movements when they get out of prison.\n\nMobile phones are also commonly used to collect geolocation data. The geographical location of a mobile phone (and thus the person carrying it) can be determined easily (whether it is being used or not), using a technique known multilateration to calculate the differences in time for a signal to travel from the cell phone to each of several cell towers near the owner of the phone. Dr. Victor Kappeler of Eastern Kentucky University indicates that police surveillance is a strong concern, stating the following statistics from 2013:\n\nA comparatively new off-the-shelf surveillance device is an IMSI-catcher, a telephone eavesdropping device used to intercept mobile phone traffic and track the movement of mobile phone users. Essentially a \"fake\" mobile tower acting between the target mobile phone and the service provider's real towers, it is considered a man-in-the-middle (MITM) attack. IMSI-catchers are used in some countries by law enforcement and intelligence agencies, but their use has raised significant civil liberty and privacy concerns and is strictly regulated in some countries.\n\nA human microchip implant is an identifying integrated circuit device or RFID transponder encased in silicate glass and implanted in the body of a human being. A subdermal implant typically contains a unique ID number that can be linked to information contained in an external database, such as personal identification, medical history, medications, allergies, and contact information.\n\nSeveral types of microchips have been developed in order to control and monitor certain types of people, such as criminals, political figures and spies, a \"killer\" tracking chip patent was filed at the German Patent and Trademark Office (DPMA) around May 2009.\n\nCovert listening devices and video devices, or \"bugs\", are hidden electronic devices which are used to capture, record, and/or transmit data to a receiving party such as a law enforcement agency.\n\nThe U.S. has run numerous domestic intelligence operations, such as COINTELPRO, which have bugged the homes, offices, and vehicles of thousands of U.S. citizens, usually political activists, subversives, and criminals.\n\nLaw enforcement and intelligence services in the U.K. and the United States possess technology to remotely activate the microphones in cell phones, by accessing the phone's diagnostic/maintenance features, in order to listen to conversations that take place nearby the person who holds the phone.\n\nAs more people use faxes and e-mail the significance of surveilling the postal system is decreasing, in favor of Internet and telephone surveillance. But interception of post is still an available option for law enforcement and intelligence agencies, in certain circumstances. This is not a common practice, however, and entities like the US Army require high levels of approval to conduct.\n\nThe U.S. Central Intelligence Agency and Federal Bureau of Investigation have performed twelve separate mail-opening campaigns targeted towards U.S. citizens. In one of these programs, more than 215,000 communications were intercepted, opened, and photographed.\n\nA stakeout is the coordinated surveillance of a location or person. Stakeouts are generally performed covertly and for the purpose of gathering evidence related to criminal activity. The term derives from the practice by land surveyors of using survey stakes to measure out an area before the main building project is commenced.\n\nThe management of wildlife populations often requires surveillance. This includes, for example surveillance of (1) Invasive species location and abundance for more effective management, (2) illegal fishers and poachers to reduce harvest and overexploitation of natural resources, (3) the population abundances of endangered species to decrease the risk of extinction, and (4) wildlife diseases that can damange crops, agriculture and natural populations.\n\nSupporters of surveillance systems believe that these tools can help protect society from terrorists and criminals. They argue that surveillance can reduce crime by three means: by deterrence, by observation, and by reconstruction. Surveillance can deter by increasing the chance of being caught, and by revealing the modus operandi. This requires a minimal level of invasiveness.\n\nAnother method on how surveillance can be used to fight criminal activity is by linking the information stream obtained from them to a recognition system (for instance, a camera system that has its feed run through a facial recognition system). This can for instance auto-recognize fugitives and direct police to their location.\n\nA distinction here has to be made however on the type of surveillance employed. Some people that say support video surveillance in city streets may not support indiscriminate telephone taps and vice versa. Besides the types, the way in how this surveillance is done also matters a lot; i.e. indiscriminate telephone taps are supported by much fewer people than say telephone taps only done to people suspected of engaging in illegal activities.\n\nSurveillance can also be used to give human operatives a tactical advantage through improved situational awareness, or through the use of automated processes, i.e. video analytics. Surveillance can help reconstruct an incident and prove guilt through the availability of footage for forensics experts. Surveillance can also influence subjective security if surveillance resources are visible or if the consequences of surveillance can be felt.\n\nSome of the surveillance systems (such as the camera system that has its feed run through a facial recognition system mentioned above) can also have other uses besides countering criminal activity. For instance, it can help on retrieving runaway children, abducted or missing adults and mentally disabled people. \nOther supporters simply believe that there is nothing that can be done about the loss of privacy, and that people must become accustomed to having no privacy. As Sun Microsystems CEO Scott McNealy said: \"You have zero privacy anyway. Get over it.\"\n\nAnother common argument is: \"If you aren't doing something wrong then you don't have anything to fear.\" Which follows that if one is engaging in unlawful activities, in which case they do not have a legitimate justification for their privacy. However, if they are following the law the surveillance would not affect them.\n\nWith the advent of programs such as the Total Information Awareness program and ADVISE, technologies such as high speed surveillance computers and biometrics software, and laws such as the Communications Assistance for Law Enforcement Act, governments now possess an unprecedented ability to monitor the activities of their subjects. Many civil rights and privacy groups, such as the Electronic Frontier Foundation and American Civil Liberties Union, have expressed concern that by allowing continual increases in government surveillance of citizens we will end up in a mass surveillance society, with extremely limited, or non-existent political and/or personal freedoms. Fears such as this have led to numerous lawsuits such as \"Hepting v. AT&T\".\n\nSome critics state that the claim made by supporters should be modified to read: \"As long as we do what we're told, we have nothing to fear.\". For instance, a person who is part of a political group which opposes the policies of the national government, might not want the government to know their names and what they have been reading, so that the government cannot easily subvert their organization, arrest, or kill them. Other critics state that while a person might not have anything to hide right now, the government might later implement policies that they do wish to oppose, and that opposition might then be impossible due to mass surveillance enabling the government to identify and remove political threats. Further, other critics point to the fact that most people \"do\" have things to hide. For example, if a person is looking for a new job, they might not want their current employer to know this. Also if an employer wishes total privacy to watch over their own employee and secure their financial information it may become impossible, and they may not wish to hire those under surveillance. The most concern of detriment is securing the lives of those who live under total surveillance willingly, educating the public to those under peaceful watch while identifying terrorist and those who use the same surveillance systems and mechanisms in opposition to peace, against civilians, and to disclose lives removed from the laws of the land.\n\nIn addition, a significant risk of private data collection stems from the fact that this risk is too much unknown to be readily assessed today. Storage is cheap enough to have data stored forever, and the models using which it will be analyzed in a decade from now cannot reasonably be foreseen.\n\nIn December 2017, the Government of China took steps to oppose widespread surveillance by security-company cameras, webcams, and IP Cameras after tens-of-thousands were made accessible for internet viewing by IT company Qihoo\n\nPrograms such as the Total Information Awareness program, and laws such as the Communications Assistance For Law Enforcement Act have led many groups to fear that society is moving towards a state of mass surveillance with severely limited personal, social, political freedoms, where dissenting individuals or groups will be strategically removed in COINTELPRO-like purges.\n\nKate Martin, of the Center For National Security Studies said of the use of military spy satellites being used to monitor the activities of U.S. citizens: \"They are laying the bricks one at a time for a police state.\"\n\nSome point to the blurring of lines between public and private places, and the privatization of places traditionally seen as public (such as shopping malls and industrial parks) as illustrating the increasing legality of collecting personal information. Traveling through many public places such as government offices is hardly optional for most people, yet consumers have little choice but to submit to companies' surveillance practices. Surveillance techniques are not created equal; among the many biometric identification technologies, for instance, face recognition requires the least cooperation. Unlike automatic fingerprint reading, which requires an individual to press a finger against a machine, this technique is subtle and requires little to no consent.\n\nSome critics, such as Michel Foucault, believe that in addition to its obvious function of identifying and capturing individuals who are committing undesirable acts, surveillance also functions to create in everyone a feeling of always being watched, so that they become self-policing. This allows the State to control the populace without having to resort to physical force, which is expensive and otherwise problematic.\n\nThe concept of panopticism is a means of indirect control over a large populace through the uncertainty of surveillance. Michel Foucault analyzed the architecture of the prison panopticon, and realized that its success was not just in its ability to monitor but also its ability to not monitor without anyone knowing. \nCritics such as Derrick Jensen and George Draffan, argue that panopticism in the United States began in World War I when the issuing of passports became important for the tracking of citizens and possibly enemies of the state. Such surveillance continues today through government agencies in the form of tracking internet usage and library usage.\n\nWith the development of digital technology, individuals have become increasingly perceptible to one another, as surveillance becomes virtual. Online surveillance is the utilization of the internet to observe one's activity. Corporations, citizens, and governments participate in tracking others' behaviours for motivations that arise out of business relations, to curiosity, to legality. In her book \"Superconnected\", Chayko differentiates between two types of surveillance: vertical and horizontal. Vertical surveillance occurs when there is a dominant force, such as the government that is attempting to control or regulate the actions of a given society. Such powerful authorities often justify their incursions as a means to protect society from threats of violence or terrorism. Some individuals question when this becomes an infringement on civil rights.\n\nHorizontal diverges from vertical surveillance as the tracking shifts from an authoritative source to an everyday figure, such as a friend, coworker, or stranger that is interested in one's mundane activities. Individuals leave traces of information when they are online that reveal their interests and desires of which others observe. While this can allow people to become interconnected and develop social connections online, it can also increase potential risk to harm, such as cyberbullying or censoring/stalking by strangers, reducing privacy.\n\nMichel Foucault has expanded literature on discipline and power structures within society, specifically by developing Jeremy Bentham's notion of the panopticon. This metaphor has been used to illustrate the influence of surveillance on the individual, in addition to society as a collective. The panopticon is a circular prison design in which prison guards are located within the center of the facility, monitoring the prisoners who are invisible to one another. Although the inmates are not consistently observed, they are nevertheless obliged to abide by the rules due to the perception that they are under surveillance. This is similar to the contemporary prevalence of undercover police and highway trackers. An example of video surveillance is called closed-circuit television (CCTV), which are used to reduce crime and increase public safety. Regulation is maintained both through vertical and self-surveillance.\n\nNumerous civil rights groups and privacy groups oppose surveillance as a violation of people's right to privacy. Such groups include: Electronic Privacy Information Center, Electronic Frontier Foundation, American Civil Liberties Union\n\nThere have been several lawsuits such as Hepting v. AT&T and EPIC v. Department of Justice by groups or individuals, opposing certain surveillance activities.\n\nLegislative proceedings such as those that took place during the Church Committee, which investigated domestic intelligence programs such as COINTELPRO, have also weighed the pros and cons of surveillance.\n\n\nPeople vs. Diaz (2011) was a court case in the realm of cell phone privacy, even though the decision was later overturned. In this case, Gregory Diaz was arrested during a sting operation for attempting to sell ecstasy. During his arrest, police searched Diaz's phone and found more incriminating evidence including SMS text messages and photographs depicting illicit activities. During his trial, Diaz attempted to have the information from his cell phone removed from evidence, but the courts deemed it as lawful and Diaz's appeal was denied on the California State Court level and, later, the Supreme Court level. Just three short years after, this decision was overturned in the case Riley vs. California (2014).\n\nRiley vs. California (2014) was an extremely vital Supreme Court case in which a man was arrested for his involvement in a drive-by shooting. A few days after the shooting the police made an arrest of the suspect (Riley), and, during the arrest, the police searched him. However, this search was not only of Riley's person, but also the police opened and searched his cell phone, finding pictures of other weapons, drugs, and of Riley showing gang signs. In court, the question arose whether searching the phone was lawful or if the search was protected by the 4th amendment of the constitution. The decision held that the search of Riley's cell phone during the arrest was illegal, and that it was protected by the 4th Amendment.\n\nCountersurveillance is the practice of avoiding surveillance or making surveillance difficult. Developments in the late twentieth century have caused counter surveillance to dramatically grow in both scope and complexity, such as the Internet, increasing prevalence of electronic security systems, high-altitude (and possibly armed) UAVs, and large corporate and government computer databases.\n\nInverse surveillance is the practice of the reversal of surveillance on other individuals or groups (e.g., citizens photographing police). Well-known examples are George Holliday's recording of the Rodney King beating and the organization Copwatch, which attempts to monitor police officers to prevent police brutality. Counter-surveillance can be also used in applications to prevent corporate spying, or to track other criminals by certain criminal entities. It can also be used to deter stalking methods used by various entities and organizations.\n\n\"Sousveillance\" is inverse surveillance, involving the recording by private individuals, rather than government or corporate entities.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39635308", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39635308", "title": "Susan Strange Award", "text": "Susan Strange Award\n\nThe Susan Strange Award, named after the renowned Susan Strange, was established in 1998 to reward innovative thinkers in the field of international studies.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46271298", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46271298", "title": "Talkspace", "text": "Talkspace\n\nTalkspace is an online and mobile therapy company based in New York City. It was founded by Oren and Roni Frank in 2012. Talkspace users have access to licensed therapists through the website or mobile app on iOS and Android.\n\nTalkspace is advised by Irvin D. Yalom, Professor Emeritus of Psychiatry at Stanford University, and Dr. Andrew Sekel, Ph.D. Linda Sacco, LCSW, Ph.D, was hired on in 2016 as the Vice President of Behavioral Health. In 2018, Talkspace hired Neil Leibowitz, MD, JD, as its Chief Medical Officer.\n\nTalkspace was founded in 2012 by Oren and Roni Frank. Prior to cofounding Talkspace, Roni Frank worked as a software developer.\n\nThe company was conceived after a transformative experience in couples therapy that saved their marriage. The results of psychotherapy were so meaningful for Roni Frank that, wanting to share it with others, she chose to pursue a master’s degree in psychoanalysis and psychotherapy.\n\nTalkspace began as a group therapy platform, but has evolved to a company offering online psychotherapy from licensed therapists. Talkspace introduced Unlimited Messaging Therapy in 2014, providing users unlimited text messaging with a therapist on the Talkspace website or mobile app. Clients and therapists can also send audio and video messages on the platform.\n\nIn February 2015, the therapy platform was expanded to include couples therapy, and in September 2015 Talkspace launched “Social Media Dependency Therapy,” a 12-week program that addresses mental health issues related to social media use. As of July 2016, users and licensed therapists can use real-time voice and video calls during therapy sessions for its \"Unlimited Messaging Therapy\"™ and \"LiveTalk Online Therapy\"™ programs. Talkspace's \"Live Video\" programs are powered by Agora.io, a provider of HIPAA compliant video services.\n\nTalkspace provides psychotherapy via smartphone, tablet, or desktop where anyone (over the age of 18) can get help from a licensed therapist without traveling to a brick and mortar office for care. The app is available on iPhone and Android. Based on initial information provided, clients are paired with a psychotherapist by an intake specialist or can select one from several suggested by a matching algorithm. Therapeutic approaches offered by therapists include Cognitive Behavioral Therapy (CBT) and other evidence-based treatment options. Talkspace has grown to include over 500,000 clients. The platform includes over 1,000 therapists.\n\nThe platform works via unlimited texting where therapists respond once or twice per day, depending on the plan, and conversations are seamless across devices. The platform uses banking-grade encryption to maintain client confidentiality and protect privacy. The same privacy rules governing clients’ confidentiality and protection exist as in brick and mortar therapy. All therapists are licensed and screening involves background-checks, technical training, and clinical interviews.\n\nSimilar to brick and mortar therapy, clients work with their therapist in a structured environment to set goals and work through mental health and life challenges. Goals are continually assessed and clients play an active role in their therapeutic journey by providing feedback to their therapist.\n\nTalkspace is a monthly subscriptions service with several tiered options for therapy and online counseling, all of which are significantly less expensive than equivalent in-person therapy.\n\nTalkspace is also HIPAA BAA compliant. It was audited to determine if the quality, design, and operating effectiveness of the controls put in place to meet the requirements of the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) and HITECH.\n\nTalkspace has been noted for serving individuals and providing increased access to those with mobility issues as well as those who are non-verbal, and to those with young children. Additionally, Talkspace has been noted for providing care to those in rural areas, and for those with mental health issues when traveling or spending time abroad.\n\nThe reaction to Talkspace has been positive including users stating that, \"Our text and video conversations were much-needed mental-health pit stops—a convenient, constructive alternative to Valium.\" Another user has stated that, “I’m feeling my anxiety start to settle down in a way that it hasn’t in years — probably since I was last in therapy. I’m also feeling a new sense of hope about my life, and that the things that were festering inside of me — the worries that were starting to creep into all aspects of my life again — are finally going to be addressed again.”\n\nIn addition to reporting on a nationwide uptick in demand for psychotherapy, Talkspace saw requests for therapy appointments triple in the wake of the 2016 election, with increases seen across demographic groups, but were particularly high for minorities. According to a study conducted in partnership with HealthMap researchers at Boston Children’s Hospital, a quarter of Talkspace users polled reported feeling “very stressed.”\n"}
{"id": "17144098", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17144098", "title": "The Dream and Lie of Franco", "text": "The Dream and Lie of Franco\n\nThe Dream and Lie of Franco is a series of two sheets of prints, comprising 18 individual images, and an accompanying prose poem, by Pablo Picasso produced in 1937. The sheets each contain nine images arranged in a 3x3 grid. The first 14, in etching and aquatint, are dated 8 January 1937. The remaining four images were added to the second printing plate later, without use of aquatint, and dated June 7, 1937.\n\n\"The Dream and Lie of Franco\" is significant as Picasso's first overtly political work and prefigures his iconic political painting \"Guernica\". The etchings satirise Spanish Generalísimo Francisco Franco's claim to represent and defend conservative Spanish culture and values by showing him in various ridiculous guises destroying Spain and its culture while the poem denounces \"evil-omened polyps\". Three of the four images added in June 1937 are directly related to studies for \"Guernica\".\n\nThe individual images were originally intended to be published as postcards to raise funds for the Spanish Republican government, and sold at the Spanish Pavilion of the 1937 World's Fair, although it is unclear whether any prints were made or sold in postcard format.\n\nIn his review of the etchings for \"The Spectator\" in October 1937, art historian (and member of the Cambridge Five spy-ring) Anthony Blunt complained that the work could not \"reach more than the limited coterie of aesthetes\". Critic and author John Golding on the other hand, claimed that \"more than any other work by Picasso \"Dream and Lie of Franco\" breaks down, as the Surrealists so passionately longed to, distinctions between thought, writing and visual imagery.\"\n\nThe images form a sequence like those in a comic book and have a loose narrative:\nFranco's form changes from panel to panel. The Spanish dictator's appearance has been likened by various writers to a \"jackbooted phallus\", \"an evil-omened polyp\" and \"a grotesque homunculus with a head like a gesticulating and tuberous sweet potato\".\n\n\nAdditions to the second plate (including studies for \"Guernica\"):\n\nSchuldiner, Michael. \"Narrative Markers in Pablo Picasso's Tragicomic Strip, The Dream and Lie of Franco.\" \"European Comic Art,\n\" 9.3 (Autumn 2016), 6-26.\n"}
{"id": "17264570", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17264570", "title": "Third World Socialism", "text": "Third World Socialism\n\nThird World socialism was a variant of socialism proponed by Kwame Nkrumah, Modibo Keïta, Ahmed Sékou Touré, Fidel Castro, Julius Nyerere, Salah al-Din al-Bitar, Michel Aflaq, Gamal Abdel Nasser, Juan Perón, Jawaharlal Nehru, Sukarno, David Ben-Gurion, Muammar Gaddafi, Zulfikar Ali Bhutto, Buddhadasa, Walter Lini and other such socialist leaders of the Third World who saw a non-Soviet version of socialism as the answer to a strong and developed nation. It could be argued that the new \"turn to the left\" leadership in Latin America (see socialism of the 21st century), with its anti-Americanism, connection with less developed Eastern Europe, sense of undeveloped countries/developing countries unity and pro-Arabism/pro-Islamism, is a new kind of Third World socialism. It may be described as an ideologically specific form of Third-Worldism and it is made up of African socialism, Arab socialism, Nasserism, Peronism, Nehruism, Labor Zionism, Islamic socialism, Buddhist socialism and Melanesian socialism.\n\nThe leaders of African socialism were Julius Nyerere, first president of Tanzania after the independence, who coined the concept of Ujamaa and collectivized the land, Kwame Nkrumah, first president of Ghana, who was one of the fathers of the Non-Aligned Movement, praised state planning policies like Five-Year Plans and an agency for the regulation of cocoa exports; and in several political speeches and writings developed his theory of an \"African socialism\", Modibo Keita, father of Mali; and Ahmed Sekou Touré, father of Guinea.\n\nThe main figures of Arab socialism are Gamal Abdel Nasser, first president of Egypt, who nationalized the Suez Canal, and the Ba'ath Party, founded in Syria by Michel Aflaq, which gained popularity in the whole Arab world and reached the government in Syria (until present) and Iraq (until 2003).\n\nIran experienced a short Third World socialism period at the zenith of the Tudeh Party after the abdication of Reza Shah and his replacement by his son, Mohammad Reza Pahlavi (though the party never rose to power). After failing to reach power, this form of third world socialism was replaced by Mosaddegh's populist, non-aligned Iranian nationalism of the National Front party as the main anti-monarchy force in Iran, reaching power (1949–1953), and it remained with that strength even in opposition (after the overthrowning of Mossadegh) until the rise of Islamism and the Iranian Revolution. The Tudehs have moved towards basic socialist communism since then.\n\nKemalism can very arguably be added to the list, as it happeared before the notion of Third World was created in post-World War II, it added populism to the equation (something not all Third World socialists did; Nasser and Nkrumah, for example, did) and Turkey is more developed than the typical notion of a Third World country, but as it was used as a model of government after the Turkish War of Independence to rebuild Turkey and recover it from the underdevelopment of the Ottoman Empire, creating a strong nation in face of the prospect of European colonialism, it can be considered as reaching the templates of a Third World socialism movement. From the 1960s onwards, Third World socialist and Third Worldist thought influenced left-Kemalism.\n\nThe Kemalist experiment, Fabian socialism (and social democracy in general) and the main Third World communist regime, the People's Republic of China, were big influences on the movement. Despite being inspired by social democracy, most of this regimes were affected in one time or the other by strongmen or big man leaders or one-party systems. In any case, most Third World socialist regimes are followers of social democratic reformism (normally state-guided), preferring it to revolution, though some adopted a kind of permanent revolution stance on the social progress to a socialist society.\n\nMany Latin American thinkers argued that the United States used Latin American countries as \"peripheral economies\" at the expense of Latin American social and economic development, which many saw as an extension of neo-colonialism and neo-imperialism. This shift in thinking led to a surge of dialogue related to how Latin America could assert its social and economic independence from the United States. Many scholars argued that a shift to socialism could help liberate Latin America from this conflict.\n\nThe New Left emerged in Latin America, a group which sought to go beyond existing Marxist–Leninist efforts at achieving economic equality and democracy to include social reform and address issues unique to Latin America such as racial and ethnic equality, indigenous rights and environmental issues. Notable New Left movements in Latin America include the Cuban Revolution of 1959, the victory of the Sandinista revolution in Nicaragua of 1979, the (Worker's Party) government in Porto Alegre of 1990, among others.\n\nBecause of its close proximity and strong historical connection to the United States, Cuba served an integral role in spreading socialism to the rest of Latin America. Che Guevara described Cuba as \"a guiding light\" to Latin American countries caught in conflict between imperialism and socialism. In Guevara's speech \"On Revolutionary Medicine\", he recounts his travels through Latin America and the misery, hunger and disease he witnessed and explained how a shift to socialism could help alleviate these struggles. As part of the New Left, Fidel Castro and Che Guevara implemented leftist politics in Cuba while incorporating policies aimed at addressing social issues. Cuban officials intended for Cuba to spur similar leftist revolutions in the rest of Latin America, what he saw as a common \"liberation struggle\", in countries like Venezuela, Bolivia and Nicaragua.\n\nIn the case of Juan Perón, elected president of Argentina on three times, the Third World socialist stance was a more radical variation of populism which aligned itself with the Third World and the Non-Aligned Movement (what Perón called \"the Third Position\"), with a significant state intervention for development, such as five-year plans, the nationalization of railways, ports and banks, the creation of an agency to regulate grain exports (the IAPI) and the establishment of a modern welfare state. Despite his progressive policies, Perón did not define himself or his doctrine as \"socialist\" during his first presidencies (1946–1952 and 1952–1955), but he did later during his exile and during his third presidency (1973–1974) when he coined the term \"national socialism\", sort of an Argentine way to socialism, which he described as a social democracy mainly modeled after the \"Swedish model\" and also inspired by other Non-Aligned, Third World socialist models such as Nasser, Christian socialism and the corporatist policies of European 1920s, 1930s and 1940s fascism.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3602898", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3602898", "title": "Vice President of the Republic of China", "text": "Vice President of the Republic of China\n\nThe Vice President of Taiwan , officially the Vice President of the Republic of China(), is the second-highest executive official of Taiwan. Since 1996, the President and the Vice President are elected together by direct plurality voting to a four-year term. Chen Chien-jen is the current Vice President of the Republic of China.\n\nOriginally established in Nanking, the ROC government , along with its presidency, relocated to Taiwan after losing the Chinese Civil War in 1949.\n\nUnder Article 49 the Constitution of the Republic of China, in case the office of the President should become vacant, the Vice President shall succeed until the expiration of the original presidential term. In case the office of both the President and the Vice President should become vacant, the President of the Executive Yuan shall act for the President. In case the President should be unable to attend to office due to any cause, the Vice President shall act for the President. In case both the President and the Vice President should be unable to attend to office, the President of the Executive Yuan shall act for the President. After the Vice President succeeds as president, the office of Vice President remains vacant for the remainder of the term.\n\nAside from succeeding the president in the case of death, resignation, or impeachment of the president, and acting as president in the event the president becomes incapacitated, the vice president holds little formal power in the government.\n\nUntil 1996, the vice president was elected by the National Assembly of the Republic of China. Beginning in the 1996 election, the vice president has been elected through a direct popular vote of citizens with household registration in the \"Free Area of the Republic of China\" on the same ticket as the president.\n\nTwo vice presidents have succeeded to the president upon the death of the president. Yen Chia-kan became president in 1975 upon the death of President Chiang Kai-shek and Lee Teng-hui became president in 1988 upon the death of President Chiang Ching-kuo. Yen stepped down as president three years later in favor of Chiang Ching-kuo\n\nAnother, Li Tsung-jen, formally acted as president from 21 January 1949 to 1 March 1950. President Chiang Kai-shek had resigned amid heavy losses during the Chinese Civil War, but was unclear on whether he was resigning permanently, or simply wished to step down temporarily. Chiang remained as Director-General of the Kuomintang and continued to give orders to the army as if he were in control. Amid this power struggle, Li left for medical treatment in the United States in November 1949 following the fall of the temporary capital of Chongqing to capital forces where he was accepted as a foreign head of state. Chiang retreated to Chengdu and finally moved the government to Taiwan in December 1949, acting as the de facto leader until formally \"resuming\" his duties in the next March. Li would nominally remain as vice president \"in absentia\" until 1954 until being impeached by the Control Yuan for \"failure to carry out duties due to illegal conduct.\"\n\nDue to the relative lack of formal power of the position, it has been coupled in the past with the office of the premier of the Republic of China. Vice presidents Chen Cheng, Yen Chia-kan, and Lien Chan all served as premier concurrently as vice president during part of their terms, and vice president Annette Lu has at times been mentioned as a possible candidate for premiership.\n\nStandard of the Vice President of the Republic of China was instituted in \"Act of Ensign of the Republic of China Navy\". The insignia was abolished with invalidation of the act on 3 January 1986.\n\n"}
{"id": "50584120", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50584120", "title": "Vote counting in the Philippines", "text": "Vote counting in the Philippines\n\nIn the Philippines, votes are counted electronically since 2010. Starting with the 2010 general elections voters have to shade an oval preceding the candidate's name on their paper ballot, and have their ballot registered with an Optical mark recognition (OMR) machine. While the machine prints a voting receipt, it collects the vote count electronically to be eventually transmitted to the Municipal Board of Canvassers.\n\nFollowing massive problems with the machines in the 2010 and 2013 elections, the Philippine Commission on Elections leased 94,000 new OMR machines from London-based company Smartmatic, while the old ones would be refurbished for the 2019 elections. The deployment of 92,509 vote counting machines constituted the largest of its kind worldwide, as other countries using technology to automate voting, such as Brazil and India employ electronic voting systems instead of digitizing of voter-marked ballots.\n\nThe Philippines began using technology to streamline vote counting in 2010. The introduction of semi-automatic ballot-counting technology used in the general election however suffered from a number of technical and procedural problems. Civil society group CenPEG and minor party All Filipino Democratic Movement (KAAKBAY), amongst others, questioned the constitutionality of the election and its safety against electoral fraud or cheating.\n\nIn spite of the problems experienced with counting machines in 2010, the same technology was used in the subsequent 2013 mid-term election where approximately 760 million votes were cast by some 50 million voters. This time, a quarter of all machines experienced problems in transmitting the results. According to poll watchdog AES Watch, up to 8.6 million votes had been affected, or possibly disenfranchised, significantly contributing to AES Watch's assessment of the 2013 elections being \"a technology and political disaster,\" and fueling speculations of \"vote rigging.\"\n\nFor the 2016 general elections, the Commission on Elections leased 94,000 new Optical mark recognition (OMR) machines from London-based electronic voting technology company Smartmatic, while the old ones would be refurbished for the 2019 elections, in a contract totalling 7.9 billion pesos.\n\nThe Commission unanimously voted to disallow the issuance of voting receipt to voters, although they allowed on-screen verification for 15 seconds. It also shelved its original plans for conduct the balloting in shopping malls, while allowing some limited replacement ballots for voters whose original ballot is rejected by the vote counting machine.\n\nIn April 2015, the Supreme Court of the Philippines had invalidated the 300 million-peso contract between the Commission on Elections and Smartmatic-TIM for diagnostics and repair of the 80,000 Precinct Count Optical Scan (PCOS) machines in April 2015, ruling that the commission \"failed to justify its resort to direct contracting.\"\n\nRestarting the process, in June 2015, the commission conducted a mock election using a \"hybrid\" system of manual counting and electronic transmission of results. Former elections commissioner Gus Lagman argued in favor of the hybrid system, referring to its reliability against manipulation, as opposed to full automation, and the lower price. Senator Francis Escudero disapproved of the use of the hybrid system, saying \"it brings back memories of the Hello Garci controversy\".\n\nOnly a few days later, the Commission informed the House of Representatives Committee on Suffrage and Electoral Reforms that they had decided not to use the hybrid system. They also limited their options to either refurbishing 80,000 counting machines and leasing 23,000 more, or leasing all machines. In the meantime, the Commission had overturned its self-imposed disqualification of Smartmatic from bidding on counting machines. On a committee hearing held in late July, Elections chairman Andres D. Bautista told lawmakers that the commission had decided to award Smartmatic-TIM a 1.7 billion peso contract to lease 23,000 OMR counting machines. Days later, the commission declared the bidding for the refurbishment of 80,000 machines a failure, after two of the three bidders backed out, stating the project would be unfeasible at the commission's tight schedule, while the third bidder was disqualified.\n\nOn August 13, the commission agreed to lease 94,000 new OMR machines from Smartmatic, while the old machines used in 2010 and 2013 would be refurbished for the 2019 elections, in a contract totalling 7.9 billion pesos. Smartmatic also won a 500 million pesos contract for electronic results transmission services.\n\nHaving received military intelligence reports in July that China might sabotage the elections, in September 2015 the commission sought the production of the voting machines be transferred from China to Taiwan. While manufacturer Smartmatic acquiesced to the request, China denied any sabotage plans, calling it \"sheer fabrication.\"\n\nThe commission partnered with De La Salle University to conduct the source code review, that was said to be more comprehensive than the 2010 and 2013 reviews, which were done just a month and four days ahead of the election, respectively.\n\nThe warehouse of the voting machines and the paper bins was moved to the warehouse of bus company Jam Liner in Sta. Rosa, Laguna. The commission paid 69 million pesos for renting the warehouse.\n"}
{"id": "38367835", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38367835", "title": "Witch trials in early modern Scotland", "text": "Witch trials in early modern Scotland\n\nWitch trials in early modern Scotland were the judicial proceedings in Scotland between the early sixteenth century and the mid-eighteenth century concerned with crimes of witchcraft. In the late middle age there were a handful of prosecutions for harm done through witchcraft, but the passing of the Witchcraft Act 1563 made witchcraft, or consulting with witches, capital crimes. The first major series of trials under the new act were the North Berwick witch trials, beginning in 1589, in which King James VI played a major part as \"victim\" and investigator. He became interested in witchcraft and published a defence of witch-hunting in the \"Daemonologie\" in 1597, but he appears to have become increasingly sceptical and eventually took steps to limit prosecutions.\n\nAn estimated 4,000 to 6,000 people, mostly from the Scottish Lowlands, were tried for witchcraft in this period, a much higher rate than for neighbouring England. There were major series of trials in 1590–91, 1597, 1628–31, 1649–50 and 1661–62. Seventy-five per cent of the accused were women. Modern estimates indicate that more than 1,500 persons were executed; most were strangled and then burned. The hunts subsided under English occupation after the Civil Wars during the period of the Commonwealth led by Oliver Cromwell in the 1650s, but returned after the Restoration in 1660, causing some alarm and leading to the Privy Council of Scotland limiting arrests, prosecutions and torture. There was also growing scepticism in the later seventeenth century, while some of the factors that may have contributed to the trials, such as economic distress, subsided. Although there were occasional local outbreaks of witch-hunting, the last recorded executions were in 1706 and the last trial in 1727. The Scottish and English parliaments merged in 1707, and the unified British parliament repealed the 1563 Act in 1736.\n\nMany causes have been suggested for the hunts, including economic distress, changing attitudes to women, the rise of a \"godly state\", the inquisitorial Scottish judicial system, the widespread use of judicial torture, the role of the local kirk, decentralised justice and the prevalence of the idea of the diabolic pact. The proliferation of partial explanations for the witch-hunt has led some historians to proffer the concept of \"associated circumstances\", rather than one single significant cause.\n\nFor late Medieval Scotland there is evidence of occasional prosecutions of individuals for causing harm through witchcraft. High-profile political cases included the action against John Stewart, Earl of Mar for allegedly using sorcery against his brother King James III in 1479. Evidence of these political cases indicates that they were becoming rarer in the first half of the sixteenth century however. Popular belief in magic was widespread in the Middle Ages, but theologians had been generally sceptical, and lawyers only interested in prosecuting cases in which harm from magic was evident. From the late sixteenth century attitudes began to change, and witches were seen as deriving powers from the Devil, with the result that witchcraft was seen as a form of heresy. These ideas were widely accepted by both Catholics and Protestants in the sixteenth century. In the aftermath of the initial Reformation settlement of 1560, Parliament passed the Witchcraft Act 1563, one of a series of laws underpinning Biblical laws and similar to that passed in England a year earlier, which made the practice of witchcraft itself, and consulting with witches, capital crimes. The first witch-hunt under the act was in the east of the country in 1568–69 in Angus and the Mearns, where there were unsuccessful attempts to introduce elements of the diabolic pact and the hunt collapsed.\n\nJames VI's visit to Denmark in 1589, where witch-hunts were already common, may have encouraged an interest in the study of witchcraft, and he came to see the storms he encountered on his voyage as the result of magic. After his return to Scotland, he attended the North Berwick witch trials, the first major persecution of witches in Scotland under the 1563 Act and the first known to successfully involve the diabolic pact. Several people, most notably Agnes Sampson and the schoolmaster John Fian, were convicted of using witchcraft to send storms against James' ship. James became obsessed with the threat posed by witches. He subsequently believed that a nobleman, Francis Stewart, 5th Earl of Bothwell, was a witch, and after the latter fled in fear of his life, he was outlawed as a traitor. The king subsequently set up royal commissions to hunt down witches in his realm, recommending torture in dealing with suspects. James is known to have personally supervised the torture of women accused of being witches. Inspired by his personal involvement, in 1597 he wrote the \"Daemonologie\", a tract that opposed the practice of witchcraft and which provided background material for Shakespeare's \"Tragedy of Macbeth\", which contains probably the most famous literary depiction of Scottish witches.\n\nJames imported continental explanations of witchcraft. In the view of Thomas Lolis, James I's goal was to divert suspicion away from male homosociality among the elite, and focus fear on female communities and large gatherings of women. He thought they threatened his political power so he laid the foundation for witchcraft and occultism policies, especially in Scotland. The point was that a widespread belief in the conspiracy of witches and a witches' Sabbath with the devil deprived women of political influence. Occult power was supposedly a womanly trait because women were weaker and more susceptible to the devil. However, after the publication of \"Daemonologie\" his views became more sceptical, and in the same year he revoked the standing commissions on witchcraft, limiting prosecutions by the central courts.\n\nDespite the fact that Scotland probably had about one quarter of the population of England, it had three times the number of witchcraft prosecutions, at an estimated 4,000 to 6,000 over the entire period. This was about four times the European average. The overwhelming majority were in the Lowlands, where the Kirk had more control, despite the evidence that basic magical beliefs were very widespread in the Highlands. Persecution of witchcraft in Orkney differed from the mainland with most trials taking place before 1650. Large series of trials included those in 1590–91 and the Great Scottish Witch Hunt of 1597, which took place across Scotland from March to October. At least 400 people were put on trial for various forms of diabolism. The exact number of those executed as a result of these trials is unknown, but is believed to be about 200. Later major trials included hunts in 1628–31 and 1649–50. Probably the most intense witch-hunt was in 1661–62, which involved some 664 named witches in four counties.\nMost of the accused, some 75 per cent, were women. Modern estimates indicate that over 1,500 persons were executed. Most of these were older women, with some younger women and men accused because they were related to an accused witch, usually as daughters and husbands. Some men were accused because they were folk healers, who were felt to have misused their powers, although folk healers as a group were not targeted. Most were not vagrants or beggars, but settled members of their communities. Most had built a reputation for witchcraft over years, which resulted in prosecution when a \"victim\" suffered ill fortune, particularly after a curse had been issued. The use of curses by some women as a means of acquiring social power may have made this process more likely to occur.\n\nAlmost all witchcraft prosecutions took place in secular courts under the provisions of the 1563 Act. In 1649 the religiously radical Covenanter regime passed a new witchcraft act that ratified the existing act and extended it to deal with consulters of \"Devils and familiar spirits\", who would now be punished with death. There were three main types of court in which accused witches could be tried. First was the Court of Justiciary in Edinburgh, which took cases from all over Scotland, with a heavy bias to the local region. Next were the circuit courts, presided over by judges from the central courts and held in the various shires of the country. Finally, there were a series of \"ad hoc\" local courts, held under commissions by the Privy Council or Parliament and staffed by local landholders and gentlemen to try witches in the places where they were accused. Based on known outcomes, the execution rates for the local courts was much higher than the courts run by professional lawyers, with the local courts executing some 90 per cent of the accused, the Judiciary Court 55 per cent, but the circuit courts only 16 per cent. After the revocation of the standing commissions in 1597, the pursuit of witchcraft was largely taken over by kirk sessions, disciplinary committees run by the parish elite, and was often used to attack \"superstitious\" and Catholic practices. The central courts only launched a trial when the Privy Council issued a commission, although the council did not have full control over prosecutions in the Court of Judiciary.\n\nScottish witchcraft trials were notable for their use of pricking, in which a suspect's skin was pierced with needles, pins and bodkins as it was believed that they would possess a Devil's mark through which they could not feel pain. Professional prickers included John Kincaid and John Dick, whose actions helped set off the outbreak of witch-hunting in 1661–62, and whose exposure as frauds, and subsequent imprisonment, helped end the trials. Judicial torture was used in some high-profile cases, like that of John Fine, one of the witches accused of plotting the death of the king in 1590, whose feet were crushed in a shin press, known as the boots. However, these cases were relatively rare. Confessions, considered the best evidence for conviction, were more usually extracted by \"waking\" the witch, keeping the suspect sleep deprived. After about three days individuals tend to hallucinate, and this provided some exotic detail in witchcraft trials. In Scotland, convicted witches were usually strangled at the stake before having their bodies burned, although there are instances where they were burned alive.\n\nThe belief that witches could cause harm was common among all social groups in early modern Scotland. In 1701 in Anstruther, Elizabeth Dick had been turned away from the local mill when begging. She cursed the mill and several witnesses testified that the grain in the mill turned red. Only when one of the people who had refused her help ran after her and gave her alms did she bless the mill and everything returned to normal. About half of accused witches had already gained a reputation for causing harm over a long period of time. The fact that only four per cent of recorded accused witches were involved in folk healing seems to indicate that healing skills were largely seen as different from witchcraft. The Aberdeenshire trials of 1596 reveal that spells could be purchased from folk magicians for success at fishing, to ensure a happy marriage, to prolong life and to affect the weather, but harmful spells were considered witchcraft. Many accusations included sexual fears. Margaret Bain, a midwife, it was claimed, could transfer the pains of childbirth to a woman's husband and Helen Gray cast a spell on a man that gave him a permanent erection. Witches and other sorts of folk magicians could also carry out divinations. These included by reading the marks on the shoulder blade of a slaughtered animal, measuring a person's sleeve or waist to see if they were suffering from a fever, or being able to find answers based on which way a sieve suspended from scissors or shears swung, as Margaret Mungo was accused of doing before the kirk session of Dingwall in 1649.\n\nIt has often been stated that Scottish witchcraft was particularly concerned with the demonic pact. In the high court, Katherine Sands, who was one of four women accused of witchcraft at Culross in 1675, admitted to renouncing her baptism, receiving the Devil's mark and having sex with the Devil, but in local trials these demonic elements were rarer. Stuart MacDonald notes that in trials from Fife the Devil was a relatively insignificant and indistinct figure and that a number of instances of covens meeting look like fairy revels, where the dancing fairies traditionally disappeared when a human broke the ring, rather than satanic gatherings. Fairies were an important part of magical beliefs in Scotland. Isobel Gowdie, the young wife of a cottar from near Auldearn, who was tried for witchcraft in 1662, left four depositions, gained without torture, that provide one of the most detailed insights into magical beliefs in Britain. She stated that her coven met on nearby Downie Hill, that they could transform themselves into hares and that she had been entertained by the Queen of the Fairies in her home under the hill. J. A. MacCulloch argued that there was a \"mingling of beliefs\" in Scotland, between popular belief in fairies and elite Christian ideas of demonic action.\n\nIn the seventeenth century there was growing scepticism about the reality of witchcraft among the educated elite. Scotland was defeated in the Civil Wars by the forces of the English parliament led by Oliver Cromwell and occupied. In 1652 Scotland was declared part of a Commonwealth with England and Ireland and the Privy Council and courts ceased to exist. The English judges who replaced them were hostile to the use of torture and often sceptical of the evidence it produced, resulting in a decline in prosecutions. In an attempt to gain support among the landholding orders, Sheriff's courts were re-established and Justices of the Peace returned in 1656. The result was a wave of witchcraft cases, with 102 in the period 1657–59. The limitations on prosecutions were fully reversed with the Restoration of the monarchy in 1660, and there was a flood of over 600 cases that alarmed the restored Privy Council, leading it to insist on the necessity of its commission for an arrest or prosecution, and banning judicial torture.\nProsecutions began to decline as trials were more tightly controlled by the judiciary and government, torture was more sparingly used and standards of evidence were raised. The exposure of prickers as frauds in 1662 removed a major form of evidence. The Lord Advocate George Mackenzie made efforts to make prosecutions ineffective. There may also have been a growing popular scepticism, and, with relative peace and stability, the economic and social tensions that may have contributed to accusations were reduced, although there were occasional local outbreaks, like those in East Lothian in 1678 and in Paisley in 1697. The last executions in the records of the central courts were in 1706. The last trial was held in the court of a sheriff-depute at Dornoch in 1727, and was of questionable legality. The British parliament repealed the 1563 Act in 1736, making the legal pursuit of witches impossible. Nevertheless, basic magical beliefs persisted, particularly in the Highlands and Islands.\n\nVarious reasons for the Scottish witch-hunt, and its more intense nature than that in England, have been advanced by historians. Older theories, that there was a widespread pagan cult that was persecuted in this period and that the witch-hunts were the result of a rising medical profession eliminating folk healers, have been discredited among professional historians. Most of the major periods of prosecution coincided with periods of intense economic distress, and some accusations may have followed the withdrawal of charity from marginal figures, particularly the single women that made up many of the accused. The reformed Kirk that emerged from 1560 was heavily influenced by Calvinism and Presbyterianism, and may have perceived women as more of a moral threat. As a result the witch-hunt in Scotland has been seen as a means of controlling women. Christina Larner suggested that the outbreak of the hunt in the mid-sixteenth century was tied to the rise of a \"godly state\", where the reformed Kirk was closely linked to an increasingly intrusive Scottish crown and legal system.\n\nIt has been suggested that the intensity of Scottish witch-hunting was due to an inquisitorial judicial system and the widespread use of judicial torture. However, Brian P. Levack argues that the Scottish system was only partly inquisitorial and that use of judicial torture was extremely limited, similar to the situation in England. A relatively high level of acquittal in Scottish trials may have been due to the employment of defence lawyers in Scottish courts, a benefit not given accused witches in England. The close involvement of the Scottish Kirk in trials and the decentralised nature of Scottish courts, where local magistrates heard many cases (in contrast to England where most were before a small number of circuit judges), may have contributed to higher rates of prosecution. The diabolic pact is often stated as a major difference between Scottish and English witchcraft cases, but Stuart Maxwell argues that the iconography of Satan may be an imposition of central government beliefs on local traditions, particularly those concerned with fairies, which were more persistent in Scotland than in England. The proliferation of partial explanations for the witch-hunt has led some historians to proffer the concept of \"associated circumstances\", rather than one single significant cause.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12170583", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12170583", "title": "World Bank high-income economy", "text": "World Bank high-income economy\n\nA high-income economy is defined by the World Bank as a country with a gross national income per capita US$12,056 or more in 2017, calculated using the Atlas method. While the term \"high-income\" is often used interchangeably with \"First World\" and \"developed country\", the technical definitions of these terms differ. The term \"first world\" commonly refers to countries that aligned themselves with the U.S. and NATO during the Cold War. Several institutions, such as the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) or International Monetary Fund (IMF), take factors other than high per capita income into account when classifying countries as \"developed\" or \"advanced economies\". According to the United Nations, for example, some high-income countries may also be developing countries. The GCC countries, for example, are classified as developing high-income countries. Thus, a high-income country may be classified as either developed or developing. Although the Holy See is a sovereign state, it is not classified by the World Bank under this definition.\n\nAccording to the World Bank the following 81 countries (including territories) are classified as \"high-income economies\". In brackets the year(s) during which they held such classification.\nAs of the 2019 fiscal year, high-income economies are those that had a GNI per capita of $12,056 or more—in 2017.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nIn parenthesis the year(s) during which they held such classification.\n\n\n\nThe high-income threshold was originally set in 1989 at US$6,000 in 1987 prices. Thresholds for subsequent years were adjusted taking into account the average inflation in the G-5 countries (the United States, the United Kingdom, Japan, Germany and France), and from 2001, that of Japan, the United Kingdom, the United States and the eurozone. Thus, the thresholds remain constant in real terms over time. To ensure no country falls right on the threshold, country data are rounded to the nearest 10 and income thresholds are rounded to the nearest 5.\n\nThe following table shows the high-income threshold from 1987 onwards. Countries with a GNI per capita (calculated using the Atlas method) above this threshold are classified by the World Bank as \"high-income economies\".\n\n"}
