{"id": "41085737", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41085737", "title": "Amie Thomasson", "text": "Amie Thomasson\n\nAmie Lynn Thomasson (born July 4, 1968) is an American philosopher, currently Professor of Philosophy at Dartmouth College. Thomasson specializes in metaphysics, philosophy of mind, phenomenology and the philosophy of art. She is the author of \"Fiction and Metaphysics\" (1999), \"Ordinary Objects\" (2007), and \"Ontology Made Easy\" (2015).\n\nThomasson was a visiting student at Brasenose College, Oxford (1987–1988) before obtaining her BA from Duke University in 1989, her MA in philosophy from the University of California, Irvine (UCI) in 1992 and her PhD in 1995, also from UCI. While at UCI, she studied primarily under David Woodruff Smith. She then worked as a teaching assistant at UCI (1992–1995), a visiting instructor at the University of Salzburg, Austria (1993), assistant professor of philosophy at Texas Tech University (1995–2000), and research assistant professor at the University of Hong Kong (1998–2000). In 2000 she joined the University of Miami as an assistant, then associate and ultimately, full professor. She joined the faculty at Dartmouth College in July 2017. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "37865285", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37865285", "title": "An Introduction to the Philosophy of Religion", "text": "An Introduction to the Philosophy of Religion\n\nAn Introduction to the Philosophy of Religion is an 1880 book by the theologian John Caird.\n\nThe philosopher Mark D. Jordan, writing in \"The Oxford Companion to Philosophy\" (1995), stated that \"An Introduction to the Philosophy of Religion\" helped popularized the term \"philosophy of religion\" in English.\n"}
{"id": "42691", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42691", "title": "André Malraux", "text": "André Malraux\n\nGeorges André Malraux DSO (; 3 November 1901 – 23 November 1976) was a French novelist, art theorist and Minister of Cultural Affairs. Malraux's novel \"La Condition Humaine\" (Man's Fate) (1933) won the Prix Goncourt. He was appointed by President Charles de Gaulle as Minister of Information (1945–46) and subsequently as France's first Minister of Cultural Affairs during de Gaulle's presidency (1959–69).\n\nMalraux was born in Paris in 1901, the son of Fernand-Georges Malraux (1875-1930) and Berthe Félicie Lamy (1877-1932). His parents separated in 1905 and eventually divorced. There are suggestions that Malraux's paternal grandfather committed suicide in 1909.\n\nMalraux was raised by his mother, maternal aunt Marie Lamy and maternal grandmother, Adrienne Lamy (née Romagna), who had a grocery store in the small town of Bondy. His father, a stockbroker, committed suicide in 1930 after the international crash of the stock market and onset of the Great Depression. From his childhood, associates noticed that André had marked nervousness and motor and vocal tics. The recent biographer Olivier Todd, who published a book on Malraux in 2005, suggests that he had Tourette's syndrome, although that has not been confirmed. Either way, most critics have not seen this as a significant factor in Malraux's life or literary works.\n\nThe young Malraux left formal education early, but he followed his curiosity through the booksellers and museums in Paris, and explored its rich libraries as well.\n\nMalraux's first published work, an article entitled \"The Origins of Cubist Poetry\", appeared in the magazine \"Action\" in 1920. This was followed in 1921 by three semi-surrealist tales, one of which, \"Paper Moons\", was illustrated by Fernand Léger. Malraux also frequented the Parisian artistic and literary milieux of the period, meeting figures such as Demetrios Galanis, Max Jacob, François Mauriac, Guy de Pourtalès, André Salmon, Jean Cocteau, Raymond Radiguet, Florent Fels, Pascal Pia, Marcel Arland, Edmond Jaloux, and Pierre Mac Orlan. In 1922, Malraux married Clara Goldschmidt. Malraux and his first wife separated in 1938 but didn't divorce until 1947. His daughter from this marriage, Florence (b. 1933), married the filmmaker Alain Resnais. By the age of twenty, Malraux was reading the work of the German philosopher Friedrich Nietzsche who was to remain a major influence on him for the rest of his life. Malraux was especially impressed with Nietzsche's theory of a world in continuous turmoil and his statement \"that the individual himself is still the most recent creation\" who was completely responsible for all of his actions. Most of all, Malraux embraced Nietzsche's theory of the \"Übermensch\", the heroic, exalted man who would create great works of art and whose will would allow him to triumph over anything.\n\nThe British Colonel T. E. Lawrence, aka \"Lawrence of Arabia\", holds a sinister reputation in France as the man who was supposedly responsible for France's troubles in Syria in the 1920s. An exception was Malraux who regarded Lawrence as a role model, the intellectual-cum-man of action and the romantic, enigmatic hero. Malraux often admitted to having a \"certain fascination\" with Lawrence, and it has been suggested that Malraux's sudden decision to abandon the Surrealist literary scene in Paris for adventure in the Far East was prompted by a desire to emulate Lawrence who began his career as an archaeologist in the Ottoman Empire excavating the ruins of the ancient city of Carchemish in the \"vilayet\" of Aleppo in what is now modern Syria. As Lawrence had first made his reputation in the Near East digging up the ruins of an ancient civilization, it was only natural that Malraux should go to the Far East to likewise make his reputation in Asia digging up ancient ruins. Lawrence considered himself a writer first and foremost while also presenting himself as a man of action, the \"Nietzschean\" hero who triumphs over both the environment and men through the force of his will, a persona that Malraux consciously imitated. Malraux often wrote about Lawrence, whom he described admiringly as a man with a need for \"the absolute\", for whom no compromises were possible and for whom going all the way was the only way. Along the same lines, Malraux argued that Lawrence should not be remembered mainly as a guerrilla leader in the Arab Revolt and the British liaison officer with the Emir Faisal, but rather as a romantic, lyrical writer as writing was Lawrence's first passion, which also described Malraux very well. Although Malraux courted fame through his novels, poems and essays on art in combination with his adventures and political activism, he was an intensely shy and private man who kept to himself, maintaining a distance between himself and others. Malraux's reticence led his first wife Clara to later say she barely knew him during their marriage.\n\nIn 1923, aged 22, Malraux and Clara left for the French Protectorate of Cambodia. Angkor Wat is a huge 12th century Hindu temple situated in the old capital of the Khmer empire. Angkor (Yasodharapura) was \"the world's largest urban settlement\" in the 11th and 12th centuries supported by an elaborate network of canals and roads across mainland Southeast Asia before decaying and falling into the jungle. The rediscovery of the ruins of Angkor Wat (the Khmers had never fully abandoned the temples of Angkor) in the jungle by the French explorer Henri Mouhot in 1861 had given Cambodia a romantic reputation in France, as the home of the vast, mysterious ruins of the Khmer empire. Upon reaching Cambodia, Malraux, Clara and friend Louis Chevasson undertook an expedition into unexplored areas of the former imperial settlements in search of hidden temples, hoping to find artifacts and items that could be sold to art collectors and museums. At about the same time archaeologists, with the approval of the French government, were removing large numbers of items from Angkor - many of which are now housed in the Guimet Museum in Paris. On his return, Malraux was arrested and charged by French colonial authorities for removing a \"bas-relief\" from the exquisite \"Banteay Srei\" temple. Malraux, who believed he had acted within the law as it then stood, contested the charges but was unsuccessful.\n\nMalraux's experiences in Indochina led him to become highly critical of the French colonial authorities there. In 1925, with Paul Monin, a progressive lawyer, he helped to organize the Young Annam League and founded a newspaper \"L'Indochine\" to champion Vietnamese independence. After falling afoul of the French authorities, Malraux claimed to have crossed over to China where he was involved with the Kuomintang and their then allies, the Chinese Communists in their struggle against the warlords in the Great Northern Expedition before they turned on each other in 1927, which marked the beginning of the Chinese Civil War that was to last on and off until 1949. In fact, Malraux did not first visit China until 1931 and he did not see the bloody suppression of the Chinese Communists by the Kuomintang in 1927 first-hand as he often implied that he did, although he did do much reading on the subject.\n\nOn his return to France, Malraux published \"The Temptation of the West\" (1926). The work was in the form of an exchange of letters between a Westerner and an Asian, comparing aspects of the two cultures. This was followed by his first novel \"The Conquerors\" (1928), and then by \"The Royal Way\" (1930) which reflected some of his Cambodian experiences. The American literary critic Dennis Roak described \"Les Conquérants\" as influenced by \"The Seven Pillars of Wisdom\" as it was narrated in the present tense \"...with its staccato snatches of dialogue and the images of sound and sight, light and darkness, which create a compellingly haunting atmosphere.\" \"Les Conquérants\" was set in the summer of 1925 against the backdrop of the general strike called by the Chinese Communist Party (CCP) and Kuomintang in Hong Kong and Canton, the novel concerns political intrigue amongst the \"anti-imperialist\" camp. The novel is narrated by an unnamed Frenchman who travels from Saigon to Hong Kong to Canton to meet an old friend named Garine who is a professional revolutionary working with Mikhail Borodin, who in real life was the Comintern's principle agent in China. The Kuomintang are depicted rather unflatteringly as conservative Chinese nationalists uninterested in social reform, another faction is led by Hong, a Chinese assassin committed to revolutionary violence for the sake of violence, and only the Communists are portrayed relatively favorably. Much of the dramatic tension between the novel concerns a three-way struggle between the hero, Garine and Borodin who is only interested in using the revolution in China to achieve Soviet foreign policy goals. The fact that the European characters are considerably better drawn than the Asian characters reflected Malraux's understanding of China at the time more of an exotic place where Europeans played out their own dramas rather than a place to be understood in its own right. Initially, Malraux's writings on Asia reflected the influence of \"Orientalism\" presenting the Far East as strange, exotic, decadent, mysterious, sensuous and violent, but Malraux's picture of China grew somewhat more humanized and understanding as Malraux disregarded his Orientalist and Eurocentric viewpoint in favor of one that presented the Chinese as fellow human beings.\n\nThe second of Malraux's Asian novels was the semi-autobiographical \"La Voie Royale\" which relates the adventures of a Frenchman Claude Vannec who together with his Danish friend Perken head down the royal road of the title into the jungle of Cambodia with the intention of stealing bas-relief sculptures from the ruins of Hindu temples. After many perilous adventures, Vannec and Perken are captured by hostile tribesmen and find an old friend of Perken's Grabot who has already been captured for some time. Grabot, a deserter from the French Foreign Legion has been reduced to nothing as his captors have blinded him and left him tied to a stake starving, a stark picture of human degradation. The three Europeans escape, but Perken is wounded and dies of an infection. Through ostensibly an adventure novel, \"La Voie Royale\" is in fact a philosophical novel concerned with existential questions about the meaning of life. The book was a failure at the time as the publishers marketed it as a stirring adventure story set in far-off, exotic Cambodia which confused many readers who instead found a novel pondering deep philosophical questions.\n\nIn his Asian novels, Malraux used Asia as a stick to beat Europe with, as he argued that after World War I, the ideal of progress, of a Europe getting better and better for the general advancement of humanity was dead. As such, Malraux now argued that European civilization was faced with a \"Nietzschean\" void, a twilight world without God or progress, in which the old values had proven worthless and a sense of spirituality that had once existed was gone. An agnostic, but an intensely spiritual man, Malraux maintained what was needed was an \"aesthetic spirituality\" in which love of art and civilization would allow one to appreciate \"le sacré\" in life, a sensibility that was both tragic and awe-inspiring as one surveyed all of the cultural treasures of the world, a mystical sense of humanity's place in a universe that was as astonishingly beautiful as it was mysterious. Malraux argued that as death is inevitable and in a world devoid of meaning, which thus was \"absurd\", only art could offer meaning in an \"absurd\" world. Malraux argued that art transcended time as art allowed one to connect with the past, and the very act of appreciating art was itself an act of art as the love of art was part of a continuation of endless artistic metamorphosis that constantly creating something new. Malraux argued that as different types of art went in and out of style, the revival of a style was a metamorphosis as art could never be appreciated in exactly the same way as it was in the past. As art was timeless, it conquered time and death as artworks lived on after the death of the artist. The American literary critic Jean-Pierre Hérubel wrote that Malraux never entirely worked out a coherent philosophy as his mystical \"Weltanschauung\" (world view) was based more upon emotion than logic. In Malraux's viewpoint, of all the professions, the artist was the most important as artists were the explorers and voyagers of the human spirit as artistic creation was the highest form of human achievement for only art could illustrate humanity's relationship with the universe as Malraux wrote \"there is something far greater than history and it is the persistence of genius\". Hérubel argued that it is fruitless to attempt to criticize Malraux for his lack of methodological consistency as Malraux cultivated a poetical sensibility, a certain lyrical style that appealed more to the heart than to the brain. Malraux was a proud Frenchman, but he also saw himself as a citizen of the world, a man who loved the cultural achievements of all of the civilizations across the globe. At the same time, Malraux criticized those intellectuals who wanted to retreat into the ivory tower, instead arguing that it was the duty of intellectuals to participate and fight (both metaphorically and literally) in the great political causes of the day, that the only truly great causes were the ones that one was willing to die for.\n\nIn 1933 Malraux published \"Man's Fate\" (\"La Condition Humaine\"), a novel about the 1927 failed Communist rebellion in Shanghai. Despite Malraux's attempts to present his Chinese characters as more three dimensional and developed than he did in \"Les Conquérants\" , his biographer Oliver Todd wrote he could not \"quite break clear of a conventional idea of China with coolies, bamboo shoots, opium smokers, destitutes, and prostitutes\", which were the standard French stereotypes of China at the time. The work was awarded the 1933 Prix Goncourt. After the breakdown of his marriage with Clara, Malraux lived with journalist and novelist Josette Clotis, starting in 1933. Malraux and Josette had two sons: Pierre-Gauthier (1940–1961) and Vincent (1943–1961). During 1944, while Malraux was fighting in Alsace, Josette died, aged 34, when she slipped while boarding a train. His two sons died together in 1961 in an automobile accident.\n\nOn 22 February 1934, Malraux together with Édouard Corniglion-Molinier embarked on a much publicized expedition to find the lost capital of the Queen of Sheba mentioned in the Old Testament. Saudi Arabia and Yemen were both remote, dangerous places that few Westerners visited at the time, and what made the expedition especially dangerous was while Malraux was searching for the lost cities of Sheba, King Ibn Saud of Saudi Arabia invaded Yemen, and the ensuing Saudi–Yemeni war greatly complicated Malraux's search. After several weeks of flying over the deserts in Saudi Arabia and Yemen, Malraux returned to France to announce that ruins he found up in the mountains of Yemen were the capital of the Queen of Sheba. Through Malraux's claim is not generally accepted by archeologists, the expedition bolstered Malraux's fame and provided the material for several of his later essays.\n\nDuring the 1930s, Malraux was active in the anti-fascist Popular Front in France. At the beginning of the Spanish Civil War he joined the Republican forces in Spain, serving in and helping to organize the small Spanish Republican Air Force. Curtis Cate, one of his biographers, writes that Malraux was slightly wounded twice during efforts to stop the Battle of Madrid in 1936 as the Spanish Nationalists attempted to take Madrid, but the historian Hugh Thomas argues otherwise.\n\nThe French government sent aircraft to Republican forces in Spain, but they were obsolete by the standards of 1936. They were mainly Potez 540 bombers and Dewoitine D.372 fighters. The slow Potez 540 rarely survived three months of air missions, flying at 160 knots against enemy fighters flying at more than 250 knots. Few of the fighters proved to be airworthy, and they were delivered intentionally without guns or gunsights. The Ministry of Defense of France had feared that modern types of planes would easily be captured by the German Condor Legion fighting with General Francisco Franco, and the lesser models were a way of maintaining official \"neutrality\". The planes were surpassed by more modern types introduced by the end of 1936 on both sides.\n\nThe Republic circulated photos of Malraux standing next to some Potez 540 bombers suggesting that France was on their side, at a time when France and the United Kingdom had declared official neutrality. But Malraux's commitment to the Republicans was personal, like that of many other foreign volunteers, and there was never any suggestion that he was there at the behest of the French Government. Malraux himself was not a pilot, and never claimed to be one, but his leadership qualities seem to have been recognized because he was made Squadron Leader of the 'España' squadron. Acutely aware of the Republicans' inferior armaments, of which outdated aircraft were just one example, he toured the United States to raise funds for the cause. In 1938 he published \"L'Espoir\" (Man's Hope), a novel influenced by his Spanish war experiences.\n\nMalraux's participation in major historical events such as the Spanish Civil War inevitably brought him determined adversaries as well as strong supporters, and the resulting polarization of opinion has colored, and rendered questionable, much that has been written about his life. Fellow combatants praised Malraux's leadership and sense of camaraderie While André Marty of the Comintern called him as an \"adventurer\" for his high profile and demands on the Spanish Republican government. The British historian Antony Beevor also claims that \"Malraux stands out, not just because he was a mythomaniac in his claims of martial heroism – in Spain and later in the French Resistance – but because he cynically exploited the opportunity for intellectual heroism in the legend of the Spanish Republic.\" Both these claims are highly questionable. Malraux's only work about the Spanish Revolution was a novel – in which he does not figure at all. His later works occasionally describe episodes during the Resistance but in none of them does he make anything resembling \"claims of martial heroism\". Indeed, in one episode, he portrays himself in a somewhat unflattering light.\n\nIn any case, Malraux's participation in events such as the Spanish Civil War has tended to distract attention from his important literary achievement. Malraux saw himself first and foremost as a writer and thinker (and not a \"man of action\" as biographers so often portray him) but his extremely eventful life – a far cry from the stereotype of the French intellectual confined to his study or a Left Bank café – has tended to obscure this fact. As a result, his literary works, including his important works on the theory of art, have received less attention than one might expect, especially in Anglophone countries.\n\nAt the beginning of the Second World War, Malraux joined the French Army. He was captured in 1940 during the Battle of France but escaped and later joined the French Resistance. In 1944, he was captured by the Gestapo. He later commanded the Brigade Alsace-Lorraine in defence of Strasbourg and in the attack on Stuttgart.\n\nOtto Abetz was the German Ambassador, and produced a series of \"black lists\" of authors forbidden to be read, circulated or sold in Nazi occupied France. These included anything written by a Jew, a communist, an Anglo-Saxon or anyone else who was anti-Germanic or anti-fascist. Louis Aragon and André Malraux were both on these \"Otto Lists\" of forbidden authors.\n\nAfter the war, Malraux was awarded the \"Médaille de la Résistance\" and the Croix de guerre. The British awarded him the Distinguished Service Order, for his work with British liaison officers in Corrèze, Dordogne and Lot. After Dordogne was liberated, Malraux led a battalion of former resistance fighters to Alsace-Lorraine, where they fought alongside the First Army.\n\nDuring the war, he worked on his last novel, \"The Struggle with the Angel\", the title drawn from the story of the Biblical Jacob. The manuscript was destroyed by the Gestapo after his capture in 1944. A surviving first section, titled \"The Walnut Trees of Altenburg\", was published after the war.\n\nShortly after the war, General Charles de Gaulle appointed Malraux as his Minister for Information (1945–1946). Soon after, he completed his first book on art, \"The Psychology of Art\", published in three volumes (1947–1949). The work was subsequently revised and republished in one volume as \"The Voices of Silence\" (\"Les Voix du Silence\"), the first part of which has been published separately as \"The Museum without Walls\". Other important works on the theory of art were to follow. These included the three-volume \"Metamorphosis of the Gods\" and \"Precarious Man and Literature\", the latter published posthumously in 1977. In 1948, Malraux married a second time, to Marie-Madeleine Lioux, a concert pianist and the widow of his half-brother, Roland Malraux. They separated in 1966. Subsequently, Malraux lived with Louise de Vilmorin in the Vilmorin family château at Verrières-le-Buisson, Essonne, a suburb southwest of Paris. Vilmorin was best known as a writer of delicate but mordant tales, often set in aristocratic or artistic milieu. Her most famous novel was \"Madame de...\", published in 1951, which was adapted into the celebrated film \"The Earrings of Madame de…\" (1953), directed by Max Ophüls and starring Charles Boyer, Danielle Darrieux and Vittorio de Sica. Vilmorin's other works included \"Juliette\", \"La lettre dans un taxi\", \"Les belles amours\", \"Saintes-Unefois\", and \"Intimités\". Her letters to Jean Cocteau were published after the death of both correspondents. After Louise's death, Malraux spent his final years with her relative, Sophie de Vilmorin.\n\nIn 1957, Malraux published the first volume of his trilogy on art entitled \"The Metamorphosis of the Gods\". The second two volumes (not yet translated into English) were published shortly before he died in 1976. They are entitled \"L'Irréel\" and \"L'Intemporel\" and discuss artistic developments from the Renaissance to modern times. Malraux also initiated the series \"Arts of Mankind\", an ambitious survey of world art that generated more than thirty large, illustrated volumes.\n\nWhen de Gaulle returned to the French presidency in 1958, Malraux became France's first Minister of Cultural Affairs, a post he held from 1958 to 1969. On 7 February 1962, Malraux was the target of assassination attempt by the \"Organisation armée secrète\" (OAS) who set off a bomb to his apartment building that failed to kill its intended target, but did leave a four-year girl living in the adjoining apartment blinded by the shrapnel. Ironically, Malraux was a lukewarm supporter of de Gaulle's decision to grant independence to Algeria, but the OAS was not aware of this, and had decided to assassinate Malraux as a high-profile minister.\n\nAmong many initiatives, Malraux launched an innovative (and subsequently widely imitated) program to clean the blackened façades of notable French buildings, revealing the natural stone underneath. He also created a number of \"maisons de la culture\" in provincial cities and worked to preserve France's national heritage by promoting industrial archaeology. An intellectual who took the arts very seriously, Malraux saw his mission as Culture Minister to preserve France's heritage and to improve the cultural levels of the masses. Malraux's efforts to promote French culture mostly concerned renewing old or building new libraries, art galleries, museums, theatres, opera houses, and \"maisons de la culture\" (centres built in provincial cities that were a mixture of a library, art gallery and theatre). Film, television and music took less of Malraux's time, and the changing demographics caused by immigration from the Third World stymied his efforts to promote French high culture, as many immigrants from Muslim and African nations did not find French high culture that compelling. A passionate bibliophile, Malraux built up a huge collections of books both as a cultural minister for the nation and as a man for himself.\n\nMalraux was an outspoken supporter of the Bangladesh liberation movement during the 1971 Pakistani Civil War and despite his age seriously considered joining the struggle. When Indira Gandhi came to Paris in November 1971, there was extensive discussion between them about the situation in Bangladesh.\n\nDuring this post-war period, Malraux published a series of semi-autobiographical works, the first entitled \"Antimémoires\" (1967). A later volume in the series, \"Lazarus\", is a reflection on death occasioned by his experiences during a serious illness. \"La Tête d'obsidienne\" (1974) (translated as \"Picasso's Mask\") concerns Picasso, and visual art more generally. In his last book, published posthumously in 1977, \"L'Homme précaire et la littérature\", Malraux propounded the theory that there was a \"bibliothèque imaginaire\" where writers created works that influenced subsequent writers much as painters learned their craft by studying the old masters; once they have understood the work of the old masters, writers would sally forth with the knowledge gained to create new works that added to the growing and never-ending \"bibliothèque imaginaire\". An elitist who appreciated what he saw as the high culture of all the nations of the world, Malraux was especially interested in art history and archaeology, and saw his duty as a writer to share what he knew with ordinary people. An aesthete, Malraux believed that art was spiritually enriching and necessary for humanity.\n\nMalraux died in Créteil, near Paris, on 23 November 1976. He was buried in the Verrières-le-Buisson (Essonne) cemetery. In recognition of his contributions to French culture, his ashes were moved to the Panthéon in Paris during 1996, on the twentieth anniversary of his death.\n\n\nThere is now a large and steadily growing body of critical commentary on Malraux's literary \"œuvre\", including his very extensive writings on art. Unfortunately, some of his works, including the last two volumes of \"The Metamorphosis of the Gods\" (\"L'Irréel\" and \"L'Intemporel\") are not yet available in English translation. Malraux's works on the theory of art contain a revolutionary approach to art that challenges the Enlightenment tradition that treats art simply as a source of \"aesthetic pleasure\". However, as French writer André Brincourt has commented, Malraux's books on art have been \"skimmed a lot but very little read\" (this is especially true in Anglophone countries) and the radical implications of his thinking are often missed. A particularly important aspect of Malraux's thinking about art is his explanation of the capacity of art to transcend time. In contrast to the traditional notion that art endures because it is timeless (\"eternal\"), Malraux argues that art lives on through metamorphosis – a process of resuscitation (where the work had fallen into obscurity) and transformation in meaning.\n\n\n\nFor a more complete bibliography, see site littéraire André Malraux.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42765315", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42765315", "title": "Ann Heberlein", "text": "Ann Heberlein\n\nAnn Helen Heberlein (née Holmström; 22 June 1970) is a Swedish academic and author, who writes extensively on theology and ethics. She is best known for her autobiographical account of life with bipolar disorder, \"Jag vill inte dö, jag vill bara inte leva\" (2008; \"I don't want to die, I just don't want to live\").\n\nShe is running for parliament in the 2018 general election as a Moderate Party representative.\n\nHeberlein defended her dissertation \"Kränkningar och förlåtelse\" (\"Abuses and forgiveness\") at Lund University in 2005. The thesis was about guilt, shame, moral responsibility, abuses and forgiveness for the dissertation.\n\nIn January 2007, she began teaching practical philosophy at Stockholm University, while working on a project about the criminal justice system. Since 2009, Heberlein has worked at Lund University.\n\nShe wrote \"Den sexuella människan\" in 2004, and contributed to \"Systematisk teologi\" (Martinsson, Sigurdson & Svenungsson, 2007). In 2008, Heberlein published the book \"Det var inte mitt fel! Om konsten att ta ansvar\".\n\nHeberlein is also an author and columnist for the newspapers \"Sydsvenskan\" and \"Dagens Nyheter\", and has also previously written columns for \"Expressen\" and \"Axess\". She also has a column in the Christian paper \"Kyrkans tidning\". She is also a regular at Sveriges Radio's P1 with her own radio show \"Tankar för dagen\". In the summer of 2009, Heberlein was one of the celebrity speakers at the P1 radio show \"Sommarpratarna\".\n\nIn 2008, Heberlein published \"Jag vill inte dö, jag vill bara inte leva\", an autobiographical book about her life with suicidal thoughts and severe anxiety and bipolar disorder, which brought her nationwide attention. In 2012 her book became a play at Kungliga Dramatiska Teatern in Stockholm.\n\nOn 24 May 2016, Heberlein resigned from \"Sydsvenskan\" after claiming that culture editor Rakel Chukri had forbidden her from writing critically about immigration or Islam on her private Facebook page. Chukri denied having made such a request in an interview.\n\nOn 26 January 2018 Kickstarter banned Heberlain's crowdfunding for the book \"Rape and Culture – A survey of group violence in Sweden 2012-2017” which became news in mainstream-media in Sweden. On 30 January 2018 Heberlein reports she has managed to attract a bit over 1 Msek through crowdfunding from approximate 5000 backers through other channels.\n\n"}
{"id": "525901", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=525901", "title": "Antanas Mockus", "text": "Antanas Mockus\n\nAurelijus Rūtenis Antanas Mockus Šivickas (born 25 March 1952) is a Colombian mathematician, philosopher, and politician. He has a master's degree in philosophy from the Colombian University, Universidad Nacional de Colombia, and a Honoris Causa PhD from L’université de Paris.\n\nHe is the son of Lithuanian immigrants. He left office as the president of the National University of Colombia in Bogotá in 1993, and later that year ran a successful campaign for mayor. He proceeded to preside over Bogotá as mayor for two (non-consecutive) terms, during which he became known for springing surprising and humorous initiatives upon the city's inhabitants. These tended to involve grand gestures, including local artists or personal appearances by the mayor himself—taking a shower in a commercial about conserving water, or walking the streets dressed in spandex and a cape as Supercitizen. On 4 March 2010, he was elected in a public consultation as the Colombian Green Party candidate for the presidential election in 2010.\n\nOn 4 April 2010, Antanas Mockus chose Sergio Fajardo, former mayor of Medellín, as his vice-presidential running mate. On 9 April 2010 he announced that he had been diagnosed with Parkinson's disease. He told La W radio: \"The prediction is that this will not affect my mental activities. I think it is absolutely fitting to tell the people about the diagnosis and about the prognosis—which is 12 years or more of normal life thanks to medication.\" Mockus finished second in the polling, leading to a runoff election with Juan Manuel Santos, which Santos won. Mockus resigned from the Green Party in June 2011 because he opposed its Bogotá mayoral candidate being supported by former right-wing President Álvaro Uribe.\n\nHe will become Senator of the Republic of Colombia in July 2018, after being the second candidate with the most votes in the legislative elections held on March 11, 2018. He is also the president of the Corporación Visionarios por Colombia (Corpovisionarios), center of thought and non-profit action that investigates, advises, designs and implements actions to achieve voluntary changes in collective behavior.\n\nMockus was born in Bogotá. He holds a 1972 Bachelor of Arts degree in mathematics from the University of Burgundy in Dijon, France and a 1988 Master of Arts degree in philosophy from the National University of Colombia. He has been a professor and researcher at the university since 1975 and has served as its vice president (1988–1991) and president (1991–1993). As its president, he contributed to the formulation of the Colombian Constitution of 1991, focusing on educational issues. In a notable 1993 incident, when confronted with a disruptive group of students, he mooned them. He later explained his action by saying \"Innovative behavior can be useful when you run out of words\", and linked it to philosopher Pierre Bourdieu's concept of \"symbolic violence.\" He resigned as University president during the aftermath but gained a higher public profile that benefited his subsequent run for the mayorship.\n\nIn 1995 he was elected Mayor of Bogotá. Under Mockus's leadership, Bogotá saw improvements such as: water usage dropped 40%, 7000 community security groups were formed and the homicide rate fell 70%, traffic fatalities dropped by over 50%, drinking water was provided to all homes (up from 79% in 1993), and sewerage was provided to 95% of homes (up from 71%). When he asked residents to pay a voluntary extra 10% in taxes, 63,000 people did so. His market-oriented social policies were much less successful. Poverty and unemployment levels were high throughout his tenures and continue to be a pressing issue in Bogotá's social life.\nFamous initiatives included hiring 420 mimes to make fun of traffic violators, because he believed Colombians were more afraid of being ridiculed than fined. He also put in place one \"Night Without Men\", on which the city's men were asked to stay home for an evening to look after the house and the children while the women went out. The city sponsored free open-air concerts, bars offered women-only specials, Ciclovia and the city's women police were in charge of keeping the peace. Amassing political support mainly from Bogotá's middle and upper classes, he has been much less successful attracting voters in the national level.\n\nDuring Mockus' unsuccessful presidential bid in 1998, Enrique Peñalosa replaced him as mayor. Peñalosa worked in a similar way instituting popular new bike paths and bus systems. When Mockus ran again for the 2001 mayorship, he held a ceremony in a public fountain \"to ask forgiveness for leaving the mayor's office in an unsuccessful bid for the presidency.\" The impact of Mockus and Peñalosa on the development of Bogotá is described in a documentary film released in October 2009 with the title CITIES ON SPEED – Bogotá Change.\n\nIn 2003 Mockus stepped down as mayor, to be replaced by Luis Eduardo Garzón, and took a year's sabbatical, traveling and speaking around the world. He planned to return to teaching at National University of Colombia the following year, although he said he was \"considering the possibility of launching a presidential campaign\". After spending two weeks as a visiting fellow at the Harvard's Kennedy School of Government in the United States in 2004, \"to share lessons about civic engagement with students and faculty\", Mockus returned to Harvard as a Visiting Professor of Romance Languages and Literatures to teach two Spanish classes during the Fall 2004–2005 semester. In November, Mockus made a special trip to the University of Virginia to speak about the use of positive social mechanisms in relation to his tenure as the mayor of Bogotá.\n\nIn 2004 Lithuanian worldwide daily \"Draugas\" chose Mockus as \"Lithuanian of the Year\". In October 2004 he visited the Lithuanian community in Chicago, Illinois, which is the biggest Lithuanian community outside the Republic of Lithuania, and delivered a speech in his native Lithuanian language. He is currently the President of Corpovisionarios, an organization that consults to cities about addressing their problems through the same policy methodology that was so successful during his terms as Mayor of Bogotá.\n\nIn between his two terms as mayor, Mockus ran an unsuccessful 1998 bid for the presidency, first in his own name and later as Noemí Sanín Posada's running mate. Mockus ran in the 2006 presidential election as a member of the Indigenous Social Alliance Movement. He finished fourth in the election, attracting 1.24% of the vote.\n\nIn August 2009, Mockus and two other past mayors of Bogotá (Enrique Peñalosa and Luis Eduardo Garzón) joined a new political movement, Colombian Green Party and decided that one of them would run for office in the 2010 Colombian presidential elections. Mockus, Peñalosa and Garzón embarked on an innovative campaign, in which they acknowledged and honored each other's qualifications and preparedness for the job, and telling people to choose whomever they liked best. Through a popular consultation carried on 14 March 2010, which he won by a large margin, Mockus became the Colombian Green Party presidential candidate.\nOn 4 April 2010, Antanas Mockus chose Medellín's former mayor Sergio Fajardo as his running mate, unifying two groups at the center of the political spectrum. Mockus finished second in the first round of voting, with 21.5% of the vote, qualifying him to participate in a runoff election with Juan Manuel Santos, which Mockus lost decisively with 27.5% of the vote.\n\nAntanas Mockus left the Green Party in 2011.\n\n"}
{"id": "683680", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=683680", "title": "Ariel Durant", "text": "Ariel Durant\n\nAriel Durant (; 10 May 1898 – 25 October 1981) was a Russian-born American researcher and writer and the coauthor of \"The Story of Civilization\" with her husband Will Durant.\n\nBorn in Proskurov, Russian Empire (now Khmelnytskyi, Ukraine) as Chaya (Ida) Kaufman to Jewish parents Ethel Appel Kaufman and Joseph Kaufman. The family emigrated in 1900, lived for several months in London 1900-01 en route to the United States, where they arrived in 1901. She had three older sisters, Sarah, Mary, and Flora, and three older brothers, Harry, Maurice, and Michael. Flora became Ariel's companion and sometime assistant, and moved with the Durants to California.\n\nShe met her future husband when she was a student at Ferrer Modern School in New York City. He was then a teacher at the school, but resigned his post to marry Ariel, who was 15 at the time of the wedding, on October 31, 1913. The wedding took place at New York's City Hall, to which she roller-skated from her family's home in Harlem. The couple had one daughter, Ethel Benvenuta, and adopted a son, Louis.\n\nThe Durants were awarded the Pulitzer Prize for General Nonfiction in 1968 for \"Rousseau and Revolution\", the tenth volume of \"The Story of Civilization\". In 1977 they were presented with the Presidential Medal of Freedom by Gerald Ford, and Ariel was named \"Woman of the Year\" by the city of Los Angeles.\n\nThe Durants wrote a 420-page joint autobiography, published by Simon & Schuster in 1978 (\"A Dual Autobiography\"; later ).\n\nThe Durants died within two weeks of each other in 1981 and are buried at the Westwood Village Memorial Park Cemetery in Los Angeles, California. Ariel told Ethel's daughter, Monica Mehill, that it was their differences that made them grow.\n\n"}
{"id": "42679984", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42679984", "title": "Beyond Selflessness: Reading Nietzsche's Genealogy", "text": "Beyond Selflessness: Reading Nietzsche's Genealogy\n\nBeyond Selflessness: Reading Nietzsche's Genealogy is a philosophical examination of the work of Friedrich Nietzsche in \"On the Genealogy of Morality\" (1887). The monograph was released by Christopher Janaway in 2007 as part of his series examining the work of Nietzsche.\n\nPaul Bishop believed Janaway dealt well with the Nazism roots present in Nietzsche's philosophy, although this as a premise to his work is often debated. Paul Katsafanas believed that: 'It is an exceptionally clear work, full of valuable insights, helpful reconstructions of arguments, and intriguing readings of some of Nietzsche’s most important claims.' Katsafanas did raise some issues on the intrinsic details of Janaway's claims, including the tension between self-affirmation and self-satisfaction, although concluded: 'Although I have expressed concerns about the details of some of Janaway’s arguments, the book as a whole is exceptionally rewarding'.\n"}
{"id": "50034324", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50034324", "title": "Chantal Delsol", "text": "Chantal Delsol\n\nChantal Delsol (\"a.k.a.:\"Chantal Millon-Delsol), born 16 April 1947 in Paris, is a French philosopher, political historian and novelist. Founder of the Hannah Arendt research institute founded in 1993. She is openly Catholic, and a disciple of Julien Freund and Pierre Boutang, describes herself as a \"liberal-conservative\".\n\nChantal Delsol main political ideas are liberalism, federalism, as well as the principle of subsidiarity based on the idea of singularity.\n\nChantal Delsol was born to a right wing catholic Parisian family she is the daughter of biologist Michel Delsol. Delsol studied under liberal-conservative Julien Freund, disciple of Max Weber, under whom she wrote her doctoral thesis in 1982.\n\nDocteur ès lettres (i.e. doctor of literature), she is currently a professor at université de Marne-la-Vallée, where she directs the centre for European studies, known as the Hannah Arendt Institute, which she founded in 1993.\n\nChantal Delsol is a fervent partisan of federalism, an ideal she has claimed draws its roots from Catholicism and from the baroque culture of Germanic countries. She believes it to be an innovative system, bearer of hope. Therefore, she is against the idea of the Nation-State of Bodin, which she believes stalls geopolitical actions. In contrast with a federation, which is an indeterminate contract, layered with a great degree of flexibility, which allows a more fluid and open State. Federations are based on the common goal of peace and prosperity.\n\nShe considers the current European Union to not be a true federation. Due to its lack of political unity in the EU, the only unity is an administrative unity, which Delsol has described as technocratic. For example, Europe lacks a common policy in terms of defence and foreign affairs.\n\nFor Delsol, subsidiarity is a principle of organisation of society: allowing for the separation of powers to different authorities.\nAn authority responsible for a group is required to guaranty the existence of the object of the group. The authority is only required to help the group overcome its weaknesses, no more no less.\n\nIn her book titled \"La nature du populisme ou les figures de l’idiot !\", Chantal Delsol examines the stakes of contemporary populism, i.e.the current ressurgence of interest in the concept as well as the need to reevaluate our place in the contemporary world. To Delsol populism appear to be the greatest danger to democracy, on the other hand, it reveals the flaws of western democracies owing to their ideas of universalism.\n"}
{"id": "7935893", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7935893", "title": "Council of Islamic Ideology", "text": "Council of Islamic Ideology\n\nCouncil of Islamic Ideology () is a constitutional body of Pakistan, responsible for giving legal advice on Islamic issues to the government and the Parliament. The body was founded in 1962 under the government of Ayub Khan.\n\nThe council has the following functions:\n\nHowever, the Government can make a law before advice is furnished by the council. The council is also responsible for submitting an annual interim report, which is discussed in the Parliament and \"Provincial Assemblies\" within six months of its receipt. Recently, the Council was strongly criticized in many traditionalist quarters for its recommendations on the procedure for khula. (See also Talaq (conflict)).\n\nThe council was then known as Advisory Council of Islamic Ideology. Its first nine members were:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1077353", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1077353", "title": "Curiosity", "text": "Curiosity\n\nCuriosity (from Latin \"cūriōsitās\", from \"cūriōsus\" \"careful, diligent, curious\", akin to \"cura\" \"care\") is a quality related to inquisitive thinking such as exploration, investigation, and learning, evident by observation in humans and other animals. Curiosity is heavily associated with all aspects of human development, in which derives the process of learning and desire to acquire knowledge and skill.\n\nThe term \"curiosity\" can also be used to denote the behavior or emotion of being curious, in regard to the desire to gain knowledge or information. Curiosity as a behavior and emotion is attributed over millennia as the driving force behind not only human development, but developments in science, language, and industry.\n\nCuriosity can be seen as an innate quality of many different species. It is common to human beings at all ages from infancy through adulthood, and is easy to observe in many other animal species; these include apes, cats, and rodents. Early definitions cite curiosity as a motivated desire for information. This motivational desire has been said to stem from a passion or an appetite for knowledge, information, and understanding.\n\nThese traditional ideas of curiosity have recently expanded to look at the difference between \"curiosity as the innate exploratory behavior\" that is present in all animals and \"curiosity as the desire for knowledge\" that is specifically attributed to humans.\n\nLike other desires and need states that take on an appetitive quality (e.g. food), curiosity is linked with exploratory behavior and experiences of reward. Curiosity can be described as positive emotions and acquiring knowledge; when one's curiosity has been aroused it is considered inherently rewarding and pleasurable. Discovering new information may also be rewarding because it can help reduce undesirable states of uncertainty rather than stimulating interest. Theories have arisen in attempts to further understand this need to rectify states of uncertainty and the desire to participate in pleasurable experiences of exploratory behaviors.\n\nCuriosity-drive theory relates to the undesirable experiences of \"uncertainty\". The reduction of these unpleasant feelings, in turn, is rewarding. This theory suggests that people desire coherence and understanding in their thought processes. When this coherence is disrupted by something that is unfamiliar, uncertain, or ambiguous, it is curiosity-drive that attempts to gather information and knowledge of the unfamiliar to restore coherent thought processes. Through this theory, the general concept dictates that curiosity is developed strictly out of the desire to make sense of unfamiliar aspects of one's environment through interaction of exploratory behaviors. Once understanding of the unfamiliar has been achieved and coherence has been restored, these behaviors and desires will subside.\n\nSubsets of curiosity-drive theory differ on whether curiosity is a primary or secondary drive and if this curiosity-drive is originated due to one's need to make sense of and regulate their environment or if it is caused by an external stimulus. Causes can range from basic needs that need to be satisfied (e.g. hunger, thirst) to needs in fear induced situations. Each of these subset theories state that whether the need is primary or secondary curiosity is developed from experiences that create a sensation of uncertainty or perceived unpleasantness. Curiosity then acts as a means in which to dispel this uncertainty. By exhibiting curious and exploratory behavior, one is able to gain knowledge of the unfamiliar and thus reduce the state of uncertainty or unpleasantness. This theory, however, does not address the idea that curiosity can often be displayed even in the absence of new or unfamiliar situations. This type of exploratory behavior is common in many species. Take the example of a human toddler who, if bored in his current situation devoid of arousing stimuli, will walk about until something interesting is found. The observation of curiosity even in the absence of novel stimuli pinpoints one of the major shortcomings in the curiosity-drive model.\n\nOptimal-arousal theory developed out of the need to explain the desire for some to seek out opportunities to engage in exploratory behaviors without the presence of uncertain or ambiguous situations. Optimal-arousal theory attempts to explain this aspect of curiosity by suggesting that one can be motivated to maintain a pleasurable sense of arousal through these exploratory behaviors.\n\nThe concept of optimal-arousal of curiosity suggests that the desire is to maintain an optimal level of arousal. If the stimulus is too intensely arousing, a \"back-away\" type behavior is engaged. In contrast, if the environment is boring and lacks excitement, exploratory behavior will be engaged until something optimally arousing is encountered. In essence, there is an intrinsic motivation to search for a perfect balance of arousal states. This idea attempts to address the observed behaviors of curiosity even in the absence of uncertain or unfamiliar situations. While optimal-arousal theory addresses some discrepancies within curiosity-drive theory, there seems to be a distinctive counter-intuitiveness about their designs. For example, if there is an ideal state of curiosity that should be maintained, then gaining new knowledge to eliminate that state of curiosity would be counter-productive.\n\nTaking into account the shortcomings of both curiosity-drive and optimal-arousal theories, attempts have been made to integrate neurobiological aspects of reward, wanting, and pleasure into a more comprehensive theory for curiosity. Research suggests that the act of wanting and desiring new information directly involves mesolimbic pathways of the brain that directly account for dopamine activation. The use of these pathways and dopamine activation may account for the assigning of value to new information and then interpreting as reward. This aspect of neurobiology can accompany curiosity-drive theory in motivating exploratory behavior.\n\nAlthough the phenomenon of curiosity is widely regarded, its root causes are relatively unknown beyond theory. However, recent studies have provided some insight into the neurological mechanisms that make up what is known as the reward pathway which may impact characteristics associated with curiosity, such as learning, memory, and motivation. Due to the complex nature of curiosity, research that focuses on specific neural processes with these characteristics can help create a better understanding the phenomenon of curiosity as a whole. The following are characteristics of curiosity and their links to neural aspects that can be thought of as essential in creating exploratory behaviors:\n\nThe drive to learn new information or perform some action is often initiated by the anticipation of reward. In this way, the concepts of motivation and reward are naturally tied to the notion of curiosity.\n\nThis idea of reward is defined as the positive reinforcement of an action that encourages a particular behavior by using the emotional sensations of relief, pleasure, and satisfaction that correlate with happiness. Many areas in the brain are used to process reward and come together to form what is called the reward pathway. In this pathway many neurotransmitters play a role in the activation of the reward sensation- including dopamine, serotonin and opioid chemicals.\n\nDopamine is linked to the process of curiosity, as it is responsible for assigning and retaining reward values of information gained. Research suggests higher amounts of dopamine is released when the reward is unknown and the stimulus is unfamiliar, compared to activation of dopamine when stimulus is familiar.\n\nThe nucleus accumbens is a formation of neurons and is important in reward pathway activation. As previously mentioned, the reward pathway is an integral part in the induction of curiosity. The release of dopamine in investigating response to novel or exciting stimuli. The fast dopamine release observed during childhood and adolescence is important in development, as curiosity and exploratory behavior are the largest facilitators of learning during early years.\n\nIn addition, the sensation pleasure of \"liking\" can occur when opioids are released by nucleus accumbens. This helps someone evaluate the unfamiliar situation or environment and attach value to the novel object. These processes of both wanting and liking play a role in activating the reward system of the brain, and perhaps in the stimulation of curious or information-seeking tendencies as well.\n\nThe caudate nucleus, is a region of the brain that is highly responsive to dopamine. The caudate nucleus is another component of the reward pathway. Research has suggested the role of the caudate nucleus anticipates the possibility of and is in anticipation of reward of exploratory behavior and gathered information, thus contributing to factors of curiosity.\n\nRegions of the anterior cortices correspond to both conflict and arousal and, as such, seem to reinforce certain exploratory models of curiosity.\n\nCortisol is a chemical known for its role in stress regulation. However, cortisol may also be associated with curious or exploratory behavior. Findings in recent studies suggesting the role of cortisol with curiosity support the idea of optimal arousal theory. It is suggested the release of a small amount cortisol causing stress encourages curious behavior, while too much stress can initiate a \"back away\" response.\n\nAttention is important to the understanding of curiosity because it directly correlates with one's abilities to selectively focus and concentrate on particular stimuli in the surrounding environment. As there are limited cognitive and sensory resources to understand and evaluate various stimuli, attention allows the brain to better focus on what it perceives to be the most important or relevant of these stimuli. Individuals tend to focus their energies on stimuli that are particularly stimulating or engaging. Indicating that the more attention a stimulus garners, the more frequent one's energy and focus will be directed towards that stimulus. This idea suggests an individual will focus their attention on new or unfamiliar stimuli in an effort to better understand or make sense of the unknown over the more familiar or repetitive stimuli. Creating the idea that curiosity demands attention.\n\nThe striatum, is a part of the brain which coordinates motivation with body movement. It would seem natural that the striatum plays a role in attention and reward anticipation, both of which are important in the provocation of curiosity.\n\nThe precuneus is a region of the brain that is involved in attention, episodic memory, and visuospatial processing. There has been a correlation found between the amount of grey matter in the precuneus and levels of curious and exploratory behaviors; suggesting that the precuneus density has an influence on levels of curiosity.\n\nMemory plays an important role in the understanding of curiosity. If curiosity is the desire to seek out and understand unfamiliar or novel stimuli, one's memory is important in determining if the stimuli is indeed unfamiliar.\n\nMemory is the process by which the brain can store and access information. In order to determine if the stimulus is novel, an individual must remember if the stimulus has been encountered before. Thus, memory plays an integral role in dictating the level of novelty or unfamiliarity, and the level of need for curiosity.\n\nIt can also be suggested that curiosity can affect memory. As previously mentioned, stimuli that are novel tend to capture more of our attention. Additionally, novel stimuli usually have a reward value associated with them, the anticipated reward of what learning that new information may bring. With stronger associations and more attention devoted to a stimulus, it is probable that the memory formed from that stimulus will be longer lasting and easier to recall, both of which facilitate better learning.\n\nThe hippocampus is important in memory formation and recall and therefore instrumental in determining the novelty of various stimuli. Research suggests the hippocampus is involved in generating the underlying motivation to explore for the purpose of learning.\n\nThe parahippocampal gyrus (PHG), the area of grey matter surrounding the hippocampus, has recently been implicated in the process of curiosity. This finding suggests that the PHG may be involved in the amplification of curiosity more so than the primary induction of curiosity.\n\nThe amygdala, often is associated with emotional processing, particularly for the emotion of fear, as well as memory. It is suggested the amygdala is important in processing emotional reactions towards novel or unexpected stimuli and the induction of exploratory behavior. This implies a potential connection between curiosity levels and the amygdala. However, more research is needed on direct correlation.\n\nPiaget is considered to be the most influential child researcher. He argued that babies and children are constantly trying to make sense of their reality and that it contributed to their intellectual development. According to Piaget, children develop hypotheses, conduct experiments and then reassess their hypotheses depending on what they observe. Piaget was the first to closely document children's actions and interpret them as consistent, calculated effort to test and learn about their environment.\n\nThere is no universally accepted definition for curiosity in children. Most research on curiosity has been focused on adults and which typically used self-report measures are inappropriate and inapplicable for studying children. Curiosity is mostly thought of as attributable to a mature person and is characterized in young children as a fledgling feature of their outlook on the world.\n\nExploratory behaviour is commonly observed in children and is associated with their curiosity development. Several studies look at children's curiosity by simply observing their interaction with novel and familiar toys.\nThere has been evidence found of a relationship between the anxiety children might feel and their curiosity. One study found that object curiosity in 11-year-olds was negatively related to psychological maladjusted so children who exhibit more anxiety in classroom settings engaged in less curious behaviour. It has also been suggested that certain aspects of classroom learning is dependent on curiosity which can be affected by students' anxiety .\n\nOther measures of childhood curiosity have used exploratory behaviour as a basis but differing on how which parts of this behaviour is best to focus on. Some studies have examined children's preference for complexity/the unknown as a basis for their curiosity measure; others have relied on novelty preference as their basis.\n\nResearchers have also looked at the relationship between a child's reaction to surprise and curiosity. It has been suggested that children are further motivated to learn when dealing with uncertainty. It is argued that their reactions to not having their expectations met would fuel their curiosity more than the introduction of a novel or complex object would.\n\nThere is a widely held belief that children's curiosity becomes discouraged throughout the process of formal education: \"Children are born scientists. From the first ball they send flying to the ant they watch carry a crumb, children use science's tools—enthusiasm, hypotheses, tests, conclusions—to uncover the world's mysteries. But somehow students seem to lose what once came naturally.\" \n\nSir Ken Robinson discusses a similar phenomenon in his TED Talk titled \"Do schools kill creativity?\" When curiosity in young people leads to knowledge-gathering it is widely seen as a positive. However curiosity according to some researchers is also at times seen as dangerous, for instance when concerns arise around opposite-sex siblings sharing a room, etc.\n\nDifferent neurodegenerative diseases or other psychological disorders can affect various characteristics of curiosity, for instance Alzheimer's disease's effects on memory or depression on motivation and reward. Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a neurodegenerative disease that directly affects the capability and capacity for memory. Depression is a mood disorder that is characterized by a lack of interest in one's environment and feelings of sadness or hopelessness. \nA lack of curiosity for novel stimuli might also be used as a potential predictor for these and other illnesses.\n\nA morbid curiosity exemplifies an aspect of curiosity that can be seen as focused on objects of death, violence, or any other event that may cause harm physically or emotionally.\n\nThe idea of morbid curiosity typically is described as having an addictive quality. This addictive aspect of the need to understand or make sense of topics that surround harm, violence or death can be attributed to the idea of one's need to relate unusual and often difficult circumstances to a primary emotion or experience of their own, described as meta-emotions.\n\nUnderstanding these difficult circumstances dates back to Aristotle in his \"Poetics\", stating \"enjoy contemplating the most precise images of things whose sight is painful to us\".\n\nThere are two distinct classifications of types of curiosity: state and trait curiosity. Both of these types determine whether curiosity comes from within or outside of a person. State curiosity is external such as wondering why things happen for the sake of just curiousness, for example, wondering why most stores open at 8 a.m. This type of curiosity tends to be the most relatable for people on a day-to-day basis since state curiosity relates to high levels of reward. On the other hand, trait curiosity relates to people who are interested in learning. Generally, it could be trying out a new sport or food, or traveling to a new unknown place. One can look at curiosity as the urge that draws people out of their comfort zones and fears as the agent that keeps them within those zones.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42106597", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42106597", "title": "Eduardo Barrio", "text": "Eduardo Barrio\n\nEduardo Barrio is an Argentine logician. Since 2005 he is professor of logic at University of Buenos Aires and researcher at CONICET. He is also editor-in-chief of the collection \"Enciclopedia Lógica\", published by EUDEBA, which includes the first Spanish translation of the L. T. F. Gamut's work \"Logic, Language, and Meaning\".\nBesides, he was co-director—along with Volker Halbach—of a collaborative research group called \"Truth, Open-endedness and Inexpressibility\". Established in both Oxford and Buenos Aires, the scheduled meetings took place in those cities during a short period between 2012–2013. \nIn 2010 he was visiting professor at MIT.\n\nHe was co-founder of the GAF, acronym for \"Grupo de Acción Filosófica\" (English: Philosophical Action Group). In words of Barrio himself, the creation of the group was due to \nthe absence of a real Argentine philosophical community. He describes this group as a \"micro-community of people that have common interests and try to produce philosophical works\".\nGAF is a very prolific organization, covering a wide range of philosophical disciplines (or sub-disciplines) such as logic, epistemology, metaphysics, and philosophy of language.\n\nBarrio, E. (1998) La verdad desestructurada. Buenos Aires: EUDEBA.\n"}
{"id": "113135", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=113135", "title": "Elliot N. Dorff", "text": "Elliot N. Dorff\n\nElliot N. Dorff (born 24 June 1943) is an American Conservative rabbi. He is a Visiting Professor of Law at UCLA School of Law and Distinguished Professor of Jewish theology at the American Jewish University (formerly the University of Judaism) in California (where he is also Rector), author and a bio-ethicist.\n\nDorff is an expert in the philosophy of Conservative Judaism, Bioethics, and acknowledged within the Conservative community as an expert decisor of Jewish law. Dorff was ordained as a rabbi from the Jewish Theological Seminary of America in 1970. He earned a Ph.D in philosophy from Columbia University in 1971. He has been awarded four honorary doctoral degrees -- from the Jewish Theological Seminary, Gratz College, Hebrew Union College, and American Jewish University -- and he was awarded a Lifetime Achievement Award by the \"Journal of Law and Religion.\"\n\nDorff is the chairman of the Rabbinical Assembly's Committee on Jewish Law and Standards, and has written many responsa (opinion papers and legal rulings) on various aspects of Jewish law and philosophy. (There is a separate article on Conservative responsa.)\n\nAmong other topics, Dorff is interested in Jewish philosophy. Epistemology is the branch of philosophy that addresses questions such as: \"What is knowledge?\", \"How is knowledge acquired?\", and \"How do we know what we know?\" In addressing this subject the first issue to note is that the terms \"knowledge\" and \"belief\" are often used interchangeably by religious believers, but technically these are very distinct terms.\n\nAs a philosopher, Dorff asks about the difference between belief and knowledge. Given the philosophical definition that knowledge differs from belief (knowledge is often defined as a \"justified, true belief\"), Dorff's works explicitly analyze epistemological questions. His philosophy of religion, as illustrated especially in his book \"Knowing God: Jewish Journeys to the Unknowable\", stems from the analytic tradition in philosophy, with careful attention to the grounds of justified belief. He claims, however, that the Jewish tradition did not base its belief in God primarily on intellectual activity because Judaism is theistic, believing in a personal God: just as we do not come to know people through creating proofs of their existence, so too that has not been the primary way in which Jews have come to know God. Instead, to know people we talk with them and do things with them, and the same is true for how we come to know God: We talk to God through prayer; God talks to us through revelation; we do things with God through following God's commandments; and God does things with us by acting in history. In Knowing God there is a chapter on each of those aspects of the interaction that gives us knowledge of God.\n\nIn his book \"Conservative Judaism: Our Ancestors to Our Descendants\", Dorff creates and then explains a chart of various views of revelation and Jewish law, including the mainstream Orthodox approach, four Conservative approaches, and the Reform approach. In it he describes himself as \"Conservative III,\" according to which revelation holds no content in of itself; rather, God inspired people with His presence by coming into contact with them. In this view the Bible is a human response to our ancestors' encounters with God, and revelation continues each time we study and reinterpret Jewish classical texts.\n\nIn the spring of 1993, Dorff served on the ethics committee of Hillary Clinton's Health Care Task Force, and in March 1997 and May 1999, he, along with other rabbis, testified on behalf of the Jewish tradition on the subjects of human cloning and stem cell research before the President Clinton's National Bioethics Advisory Commission. In 1999-2000, he served on the U.S. Surgeon General's Task Force to create a Call to Action for responsible sexual behavior to reduce the spread of sexually transmitted diseases, and between 2000-2002 he served on the National Human Resources Protections Advisory Commission, charged with reviewing and revising the federal guidelines on research on human beings. He is now on the California Ethics Advisory Commission for embryonic stem cell research done within the state.\n\nDorff is a fellow of the Hastings Center, a preeminent research institution dedicated to the examination of issues in bioethics. His book on Jewish medical ethics is \"Matters of Life and Death: A Jewish Approach to Modern Medical Ethics\".\n\nDorff has co-edited two anthologies with religion professor [Louis E. Newman]], formerly of \nCarleton College and now of Stanford University -- namely, \"Contemporary Jewish Ethics and Morality: A Reader\" and \"Contemporary Jewish Theology: A Reader\", both published by Oxford University Press. In addition, he has written books on social ethics (\"To Do the Right and the Good\", and \"The Way into Tikkun Olam [Repairing the World\"]) and personal ethics (\"Love Your Neighbor and Yourself\"). His books on social ethics include chapters on interfaith relations, pluralism within the Jewish community, poverty, justice, war, and communal forgiveness. His book on personal ethics includes chapters on privacy, sexual ethics, family violence, how we talk to and about each other, parents and children, and hope. He has also co-edited with Emory University Professor Jonathan Crane \"The Oxford Handbook on Jewish Ethics and Morality\"\n\nIn addition to these chapters on specific areas of ethics, Dorff has written extensively on issues in ethical theory—in particular, the relationships between religion and ethics and between Jewish law and ethics. These can be found in the first chapters and the appendicies of the books mentioned above as well as in his book on Jewish law, described below.\n\nDorff is a rare example of someone who has written about the theory of Jewish law and has also written rabbinic rulings (teshuvot) on a number of issues in Jewish law. In his book \"The Unfolding Tradition\", he describes and analyzes fifteen theories of Jewish law within the Conservative Movement with comparisons to theories on the right in Orthodoxy and on the left in Reform Judaism and yet further left. He articulates his own theory of Jewish law as a living, organic system in his book \"For the Love of God and People: A Philosophy of Jewish Law\". In addition to describing how he understands Jewish law as being like a human being with a body (=the body of Jewish law, the corpus juris) and soul (=the Covenant between God and the Jewish People), he has specific chapters on the interaction between Jewish law and morality, theology, and custom, followed by some comparisons to the right and left of his approach and some specific examples of his own rabbinic rulings that illustrate his theory.\n\nIn Los Angeles, Dorff is a member of the \"Board of Jewish Family Service\" and has served as its president (2004–2006). From 2008 to 2016 he was a member of the Board of the Los Angeles Jewish Federation Council, co-chairing its task force on Serving the Vulnerable. Since the 1980s he has been a member of the Ethics Committees of UCLA Medical Center and the Jewish Homes for the Aging. He is co-chairman of the \"Priest-Rabbi Dialogue\" sponsored by the Los Angeles Archdiocese and the Board of Rabbis of Southern California, and he is the former Treasurer and President and current Board member of the Academy of Judaic, Christian, and Islamic Studies. He has been Secretary of the Board of the Faithtrust Institute, dedicated to stopping violence against women and children. He is a past president of three academic societies: The Jewish Law Association, The Jewish Philosophical Association, and the Society for Jewish Ethics and Honorary President of the Jewish Law Association between 2012 and 2016.\n\nRabbi Dorff has published thirteen books and over 200 articles on Jewish thought, law, and ethics, and he has edited or co-edited another fourteen books on those topics. His books relevant to Jewish law include: A Living Tree: The Roots and Growth of Jewish Law (with Arthur Rosett); The Unfolding Tradition: Philosophies of Jewish Law (2005; second edition, 2011); and For the Love of God and People: A Philosophy of Jewish Law (2007). In addition he has written about 20 rabbinic rulings for the Conservative Movement's Committee on Jewish Law and Standards on such subjects as \"Donations of Ill-Gotten Gain,\" \"Violent and Defamatory Video Games,\" and “Providing References for Schools or Jobs,” as well as many topics in medical ethics.\n\nOn December 6, 2006, the law committee accepted a paper by Rabbis Elliot Dorff, Daniel Nevins and Avram Reisner on same-sex marriage and ordination of homosexual rabbis, while it upheld the biblical prohibition on male intercourse.\nIn addition, Dorff has written responsa adopted by the Conservative Movement's Committee on Jewish Law and Standards on these and other topics: end-of-life medical issues; artificial insemination, egg donation, and adoption; assisted suicide; donations of ill-gotten gain; and violent or defamatory video games. They can be found at the Rabbinical Assembly website, www.rabbinicalassembly.org under the link \"Contemporary Halakhah.\"\n\n\nFor his responsa:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26808070", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26808070", "title": "Essential Teachings", "text": "Essential Teachings\n\nEssential Teachings is a book by the 14th Dalai Lama. It is a translation of a series of talks first delivered in India. These talks took place in 1974, but this is the first English translation. The talks were in Tibetan, and published under the title Enseignements essentiels in 1974 and again in 1987 with the title L'Enseignement du Dalai-Lama The French translations were closely followed, but the glossary was expanded in the English version. \n\nThe book is structured into 37 short exercises or \"Practices\" and includes a short glossary of 60+ terms.\n\n"}
{"id": "37883452", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37883452", "title": "Ethics of organ transplantation", "text": "Ethics of organ transplantation\n\nIn bioethics, ethics of organ transplantation refers to the ethical concerns on organ transplantation procedures . Both the source and method of obtaining the organ to transplant are major ethical issues to consider, as well as the notion of distributive justice.\n\nOrgan harvesting from live people is one of the most frequently discussed debate topic in organ transplantation. The World Health Organization argues that transplantation promote health, but the notion of “transplantation tourism” has the potential to violate human rights or exploit the poor, to have unintended health consequences, and to provide unequal access to services, all of which ultimately may cause harm. Thus WHO called to ban compensated organ transplanting and asked member states to protect the most vulnerable from transplant tourism and organ trade. However, as disincentives becomes a must, adding incentives back, such as improving life condition for organ donors after donation, becomes difficult.\n\nRegardless of the “gift of life”, in the context of developing countries, this might be coercive. The practice of coercion could be considered exploitative of the poor population, violating basic human rights according to Articles 3 and 4 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. For example, in the history of major transplant countries, organs from executed prisoners are used to develop their techniques. This practice was condemned by bioethicists and was gradually abandoned and replaced by donation systems\n\nThere is also a powerful opposing view, that trade in organs, if properly and effectively regulated to ensure that the seller is fully informed of all the consequences of donation, is a mutually beneficial transaction between two consenting adults, and that prohibiting it would itself be a violation of Articles 3 and 29 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.\n\nEven within developed countries there is concern that enthusiasm for increasing the supply of organs may trample on respect for the right to life. The question is made even more complicated by the fact that the \"irreversibly\" criterion for legal death cannot be adequately defined and can easily change with changing technology. As controversies on the boundary of life and death grow, the debate on when to end end-of-life care and start organ harvesting ensures.\n\nControversies also raise on how to assume consent of organ donation for dead people. In practice most countries, have legislation allowing for implied consent, asking people to opt out of organ donation instead of opt in, but allow family refusals.\n\nThere are fewer debates on animal sources, as historically laboratory animals have been used to develop organ transplantation technologies for prolonging human life, such as using animal organs in xenotransplantation on human. Nevertheless, animal rights activists have objections on what they see as animal abuse such as organ harvesting in bear farms, and religious groups object what they see as consumption of dirty animals.\n\nOrgans from artificial origin like stem cells, is a prospect that researchers hope to use one day. However many of such researches are crictised based on the use of human embryo.\n\nThe shortage of organ donors and the growing waiting list of patients leads to many social issues, such as distribution. In 1994, E. H. Kluge objects the equal access principle based on his argument that people whose need are uncontrollable should be preferred over people who choose a poor lifestyle The donor matching which is supposed to maximize the number of life-years gained is also subject to debate, as people value their organ and the rest of their lives differently. In practice, organ and tissue banks often choose patients in a way that maximize their revenue, those “altruistic” clinics may not have the necessary income to fund research and development to improve quality and availability of care\n\n"}
{"id": "17687", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17687", "title": "False dilemma", "text": "False dilemma\n\nA false dilemma is a type of informal fallacy in which something is falsely claimed to be an \"either/or\" situation, when in fact there is at least one additional option.\n\nA false dilemma can arise intentionally, when a fallacy is used in an attempt to force a choice or outcome. The opposite of this fallacy is false compromise. For example, what is described as the \"TINA factor\" in elections is often in reality a false dilemma, as there are about 3 to 25 electoral candidates for most electoral seats.\n\nThe false dilemma fallacy can also arise simply by accidental omission of additional options rather than by deliberate deception. For example, \"Stacey spoke out against capitalism, therefore she must be a communist\" (she may be neither capitalist nor communist). \"Roger opposed an atheist argument against Christianity, so he must be a Christian\" (When it's assumed the opposition by itself means he's a Christian). Roger might be an atheist who disagrees with the logic of some particular argument against Christianity. Additionally, it can be the result of habitual tendency, whatever the cause, to view the world with limited sets of options.\n\nSome philosophers and scholars believe that \"unless a distinction can be made rigorous and precise it isn't really a distinction\". An exception is analytic philosopher John Searle, who called it an incorrect assumption that produces false dichotomies. Searle insists that \"it is a condition of the adequacy of a precise theory of an indeterminate phenomenon that it should precisely characterize that phenomenon as indeterminate; and a distinction is no less a distinction for allowing for a family of related, marginal, diverging cases.\" Similarly, when two options are presented, they often are, although not always, two extreme points on some spectrum of possibilities; this may lend credence to the larger argument by giving the impression that the options are mutually exclusive of each other, even though they need not be. Furthermore, the options in false dichotomies typically are presented as being collectively exhaustive, in which case the fallacy may be overcome, or at least weakened, by considering other possibilities, or perhaps by considering a whole spectrum of possibilities, as in fuzzy logic.\n\nCommon phrases expressing similar or synonymous concepts include:\n\n\nThe presentation of a \"false choice\" often reflects a deliberate attempt to eliminate several options that may occupy the middle ground on an issue. A common argument against noise pollution laws involves a false choice. It might be argued that in New York City noise should not be regulated, because if it were, the city would drastically change in a negative way. This argument assumes that, for example, a bar must be shut down to prevent disturbing levels of noise emanating from it after midnight. This ignores the fact that the bar could simply lower its noise levels, or install soundproofing structural elements to keep the noise from excessively transmitting onto others' properties.\n\nIn psychology, a phenomenon related to the false dilemma is black-and-white thinking. There are people who routinely engage in black-and-white thinking, an example of which is someone who categorizes other people as all good or all bad.\n\n"}
{"id": "38840044", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38840044", "title": "Family of Secrets", "text": "Family of Secrets\n\nFamily of Secrets is a book by Russ Baker. Published by Bloomsbury Press in 2008, the book describes alleged connections between the Bush family with the Central Intelligence Agency. The book asserts that President George H.W. Bush was linked to the Watergate scandal and the assassination of John F. Kennedy.\n\nBaker was drawn to John F. Kennedy assassination conspiracy theories after discovering a report that George H. W. Bush could not remember where he was on November 22, 1963.\n\nIn the book he levels various charges of corruption at the Bush family, whom he ties into the entry of the United States into World War II, the formation of the CIA, the assassination of John F. Kennedy and the Watergate scandal.\n\nAccording to Baker, the first President Bush became an intelligence agent in his teenage years and was later at the center of a plot to assassinate Kennedy that included his father, Prescott Bush, Vice President Lyndon B. Johnson, CIA Director Allen Dulles, Cuban and Russian exiles and emigrants, and various Texas oilmen. He also names Bob Woodward of \"The Washington Post\" as an intelligence agent who conspired with John Dean to remove President Richard Nixon from office for opposing the oil depletion allowance.\n\nThe book observes that when George H.W. Bush was at Phillips Academy his roommate was the nephew of George de Mohrenschildt, and that in later years, Bush and De Mohrenschildt fraternized in Dallas. In 1962, de Mohrenschildt befriended Lee Harvey Oswald. Baker also makes a connection between the Bushes and the Watergate scandal. He describes Watergate \"not as a ham-handed act of political espionage but as a carefully orchestrated farce designed to take down President Richard Nixon.\n\nThe book received scathing reviews.\n\nIn the \"Washington Post\", reviewer Jamie Malanowski said that \"by trying to explain everything, to create a unified field theory of American tragedy that has the Bushes as the key actors and beneficiaries, Baker exceeds his grasp.\" He said that \"Baker is not content merely to raise uncomfortable questions; he has latched onto the Grand Theory of Bushativity, and he insists on pressing his case with evidence that will not bear the weight.\"\n\nMalanowski said that every time Baker \"reaches a gap in someone's means or motivation, he hops, skips and jumps across it as nimbly as a mountain goat. Such words as 'appears,' 'apparently,' 'likely,' 'seems,' 'seemingly' and 'in all likelihood' appear at many crucial junctures; there are more crutches in these pages than in the grotto at Lourdes.\"\n\n\"Time\" magazine reviewer Lev Grossman called Baker \"prodigiously industrious\" but said the effort to frame Watergate as an effort to take down Nixon was \"far-fetched.\"\n\nIn a \"Los Angeles Times\" review, Tim Rutten, a former media critic for the newspaper, excoriated the book as an example of paranoid literature described by Richard Hofstadter. He said that \"if the paranoid style can be said to have a canon, his preposterous new book. . . surely deserves a place among its classics.\" Rutten called the book a \"dispiriting tome\" and said that the Kennedy assassination conspiracy, as recounted in the book, had \"about as many people involved in the plot as there were on Omaha Beach.\" He said that \"what makes Baker's book singularly offensive is the way he recklessly impugns, in the most disgusting possible way, the reputations not simply of men and women now dead, but of the living.\" Rutten said that the elder Bush is probably \"libel proof\" but \"using the tissue of innuendo, illogical inference, circumstance and guilt by tenuous association -- as Baker does in this book -- to indict rhetorically anyone, let alone a former chief executive, of an infamous murder is a reprehensible calumny.\"\n\nJane Hamsher of Firedoglake said that “[w]hether Baker ends up convincing you or not, reading this book should make you question much of what you know about the last half century of US history”.\n\nInvestigative journalist Tim Weiner, winner of the Pulitzer Prize and author of CIA and FBI histories, said the book is “a carnival of conspiracy theory.\" He told \"Boston\" magazine in 2015 that Baker is \"driven by the search for truth that drives reporters everywhere, but conspiracy theory in which there’s a giant octopus that connects disparate events and provides a unified field theory explanation of otherwise disparate events is not either journalism or history.”\n\n"}
{"id": "51034223", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51034223", "title": "Free software in India", "text": "Free software in India\n\nThe history of Free Software in India can be seen from three different perspectives - the growth of Free Software usage, the growth of Free Software communities, the adoption of Free Software policies by the governments. India was quite late to the free software scene with adoption and penetration growing towards the end of 1990's with the formation of pockets of Free Software communities spread across the country. The communities were typically centered around educational institutions or free software supporting organizations.\n\nCommunities primarily revolved around support mailing lists. Some of the largest and earliest communities were those based out of Chennai, Delhi, Kochi, Mumbai, Pune, and Trivandrum. Free Software Foundation of India, was formed in 2001 to promote the use and development of free software in India.\n\nSome of the state governments, notably Kerala and Tamil Nadu created policies on the use of Free Software in state level organizations and launched ambitions projects like IT@School, Elcot OpenSuse migration. The government of India rolled out a policy to adopt Open standards and promote open source and open technologies in 2015.\n\nFree Software was almost synonymous with GNU/Linux and associated software in the past. However, with the gaining popularity of Free Software applications like Firefox or operating systems like Android it has become quite difficult to quantify the user base for Free Software. If we look at the usage of GNU/Linux operating systems in desktop computers in India we can see that the market share has increased to 1.8% in July 2016. A report of similar data in 2011 had shown that India was one of the top 20 users of GNU/Linux desktops globally.\n\nIn 2012, the government of India released 'National Information Technology Policy 2012', where one of the stated objectives was \"to adopt Open standards and promote open source and open technologies\". In continuation to this, the 'Policy on Adoption of Open Source Software for Government of India' was released in 2014. This policy states that \"Government of India shall endeavour to adopt Open Source Software in all e-Governance systems implemented by various Government organizations, as a preferred option in comparison to Closed Source Software (CSS). The Open Source Software shall have the following characteristics:\"\"3.1 The source code shall be available for the community / adopter / end user to study and modify the software and to redistribute copies of either the original or modified software.\"\"3.2 Source code shall be free from any royalty.\"Although the policy only talks about open source software and not free software per se, the conditions requiring that the source be available for modifications and redistributions aligns with the licensing requirements of Free and Open Source Software and thereby is expected to give a big boost to the adoption of free and open-source software in the government organizations in India. The state governments in the different states of India are expected to come up with their own versions of this policy around open source adoption for implementation at the state government levels.\n\nIn 2007, government of Kerala released its ICT policy where one of its objectives was to mandate appropriate use of Free Software in all ICT initiatives.\"The Government realizes that Free Software presents a unique opportunity in building a truly egalitarian knowledge society. The Government will take all efforts to develop Free Software and Free Knowledge and shall encourage and mandate the appropriate use of Free Software in all ICT initiatives.\"The state of Kerala has a rich history of free software activism which had resulted in several internationally visible free software initiatives as well as the IT policy that is biased towards free software.\n\nIn 2001, the Government of Kerala decided to launch an initiative called the IT@School Project which aimed at creating a Free Software-based IT training program for students in public schools. A custom GNU/LInux distribution called the IT@School Linux was rolled out across 12000 public schools in the state as part of this program.\n\nIn 2008, the Kerala State Electricity Board moved their billing solution to the free software platform \"Oruma\" developed by its internal team with the support of the Free Software community in Kerala\n\nBharat Operating System Solutions (BOSS) is a GNU/Linux distribution developed by the National Resource Centre for Free/Open Source Software (NRCFOSS) of India.\n\nIn 2007, ELCOT, migrated 30,000 systems in government establishments and schools in Tamil Nadu to OpenSUSE.\n\nFree software in Kerala\n"}
{"id": "191300", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=191300", "title": "Glossary of Buddhism", "text": "Glossary of Buddhism\n\nSome Buddhist terms and concepts lack direct translations into English that cover the breadth of the original term. Below are given a number of important Buddhist terms, short definitions, and the languages in which they appear. In this list, an attempt has been made to organize terms by their original form and give translations and synonyms in other languages along with the definition.\n\nLanguages and traditions dealt with here:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3364638", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3364638", "title": "Green-beard effect", "text": "Green-beard effect\n\nThe green-beard effect is a thought experiment used in evolutionary biology to explain selective altruism among individuals of a species. Altruistic behaviour is paradoxical when viewed in the light of old ideas of evolutionary theory that emphasised the role of competition. The evolution of altruism is better explained through the gene-centered view of evolution, which emphasizes an interpretation of natural selection from the point of view of the gene which acts as an agent that has the metaphorical \"selfish goal\" of maximizing its own propagation. A gene for (behavioral) selective altruism can be favored by (natural) selection if the altruism is primarily directed at other individuals who share the gene. Since genes are invisible, such an effect requires perceptible markers for altruistic behaviour to occur.\n\nA green-beard effect occurs when an allele, or a set of linked alleles, produce three expressed (or phenotypic) effects: \n\nThe carrier of the gene (or a specific allele) is essentially recognizing copies of the same gene (or a specific allele) in other individuals. Whereas kin selection involves altruism to related individuals who share genes in a non-specific way, green-beard alleles promote altruism toward individuals who share a gene that is expressed by a specific phenotypic trait. Some authors also note that the green-beard effects can include \"spite\" for individuals lacking the \"green-beard\" gene. This can have the effect of delineating a subset of organisms within a population that is characterized by members who show greater cooperation toward each other, this forming a \"clique\" that can be advantageous to its members who are not necessarily kin.\n\nGreen-beard effect could increase altruism on green-beard phenotypes and therefore its presence in a population even if genes assist in the increase of genes that are not exact copies; all that is required is that they express the three required characteristics. Green-beard alleles are vulnerable to mutations that produce the perceptible trait without the helping behaviour.\n\nThe idea of a green-beard allele was proposed by William D. Hamilton in his articles of 1964, and got the name from the example used by Richard Dawkins (\"I have a green beard and I will be altruistic to anyone else with green beard\") in \"The Selfish Gene\" (1976).\n\nEvolutionary biologists have debated the potential validity of green-beard genes, suggesting that it would be extraordinarily rare for a single or even a set of linked genes to produce three complex phenotypic effects. This criticism has led some to believe that they simply cannot exist or that they only can be present in less complex organisms, such as microorganisms. Several discoveries within the past ten years have illuminated the validity of this critique.\n\nThe concept remained a merely theoretical possibility under Dawkins' selfish gene model until 1998, when a green-beard allele was first found in nature, in the red imported fire ant (\"Solenopsis invicta\"). Polygyne colony queens are heterozygous (Bb) at the Gp-9 gene locus. Their worker offspring can have both heterozygous (Bb) and homozygous (BB) genotypes. The investigators discovered that homozygous dominant (BB) queens, which in the wild form produce monogyne rather than polygyne colonies, are specifically killed when introduced into polygyne colonies, most often by heterozygous (Bb) and not homozygous (BB) workers. They concluded that the allele Gp-9 is linked to a greenbeard allele which induces workers bearing this allele to kill all queens that do not have it. A final conclusion notes that the workers are able to distinguish BB queens from Bb queens based on an odor cue.\n\nThe gene csA in the slime mould \"Dictyostelium discoideum\", discovered in 2003, codes for a cell adhesion protein which binds to gp80 proteins on other cells, allowing multicellular fruiting body formation on soil. Mixtures of csA knockout cells with wild-type cells yield spores, \"born\" from the fruiting bodies, which are 82% wild-type (WT). This is because the wild-type cells are better at adhering and more effectively combine into aggregates; knockout (KO) cells are left behind. On more adhesive but less natural substances, KO cells can adhere; WT cells, still better at adhering, sort preferentially into the stalk.\n\nIn 2006, green beard-like recognition was seen in the cooperative behavior among color morphs in side-blotched lizards, although the traits appear to be encoded by multiple loci across the genome.\n\nA more recent example, found in 2008, is a gene that makes brewer's yeast clump together in response to a toxin such as alcohol. By investigating flocculation, a type of self-adherence generally present in asexual aggregations, Smukalla \"et al.\" showed that \"S. cerevisiae\" is a model for cooperative behavior evolution. When this yeast expresses FLO1 in the laboratory, flocculation is restored. Flocculation is apparently protective for the FLO1+ cells, which are shielded from certain stresses (ethanol, for example). In addition FLO1+ cells preferentially adhere to each other. The authors therefore conclude that flocculation is driven by this greenbeard allele.\n\nA mammalian example appears to be the reproductive strategy of the wood mouse, which shows cooperation among spermatozoa. Single sperms hook in each other to form sperm-trains, which are able to move faster together than single sperm would do.\n\nIt has been suggested that speciation could be possible through the manifestation of a green-beard effect.\n\nIt has also been pointed out that both the biological and cultural aspects of language are bestowed with green beard recognition systems, thus providing insights into the evolution of language.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36625796", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36625796", "title": "Henry of Oyta", "text": "Henry of Oyta\n\nHenry of Oyta () (c.1330 – 1397) was a German theologian and nominalist philosopher.\n\nHe was born at Friesoythe in Lower Saxony. \nHenry graduated M.A. at the University of Prague in 1355. He was then rector of a school in Erfurt, and returned to Prague in 1366. In the course of a long-running dispute, Adalbert Ranconis accused him of heresy in 1369–70. He began teaching at the University of Paris in 1377. For reasons connected with the Western Schism, he left Paris in 1381; he then taught at Prague, 1381 to 1381, lecturing there on the Psalms and Gospel of John. He was at the University of Vienna 1384? to 1390; he drew up the statutes there in 1389, with Henry of Langenstein.\n\n\n\nAround 1374 he abridged the \"Sentences\" commentary of Adam Wodeham.\n\n\"\" (in German)\n\n\"Heinrich Totting von Oyta\" (in German)\n"}
{"id": "16384237", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16384237", "title": "Hildebrand Gregori", "text": "Hildebrand Gregori\n\nVenerable Hildebrand Gregori, O.S.B. Silv., (8 May 1894 – 12 November 1985), was an Italian Benedictine monk, who served as the Abbot General of the Sylvestrine congregation of the Order. He was instrumental in the cae of the many orphans left in the City of Rome after the destruction of World War II. The cause for his beatification has been accepted by the Holy See, due to which he is honored as Venerable.\n\nHe was born Alfredo Gregori in Poggio Ginolfo, part of the town of Carsoli in the Province of L'Aquila. As a young man, Gregori was called to enter monastic life, joining the Sylvestrines, a branch of the Benedictines. He was later elected Abbot General of the congregation, and as such was based at the monastery of Santo Stefano del Cacco in Rome, General Motherhouse of the Order.\n\nThe abbot was moved at the plight of the many orphans and street children he saw in Rome during World War II. He began to take the young boys into his own monastery to help them, and in 1942 he founded the Monastero San Vincenzo at Bassano Romano where a small community of monks cared for the boys. He envisioned, though, a community of Religious Sisters who would undertake this task.\n\nIn 1950, Gregori formed the Prayerful Sodality, which in 1977 became the Benedictine Sisters of the Reparation of the Holy Face. He directed his spiritual daughters to the \"charism of reparation,\" understood as an act of love against the \"sin of social injustice\", in reference to the Holy Face of Jesus. Currently the Sisters have 14 communities in Italy, one in Poland, one in Romania, two in India, and one in the Democratic Republic of the Congo.\n\nOn September 27, 2000 the 50th anniversary of the religious congregation he had founded, Gregori was honored by an official letter from Pope John Paul II to Cardinal Fiorenzo Angelini.\n\nGregori died at his monastery in 1985.\n\nIn 2007, the 15-year diocesan phase in the process of his beatification was completed and on that occasion, Cardinal Camillo Ruini, Vicar General of the Diocese of Rome, called him \"a contemplative monk and untiring apostle in responding to the needs of his time\". He was then declared Venerable by Pope John Paul II.\n"}
{"id": "8201921", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8201921", "title": "Ietsism", "text": "Ietsism\n\nIetsism ( () – \"somethingism\") is an unspecified belief in an undetermined transcendent reality. It is a Dutch term for a range of beliefs held by people who, on the one hand, inwardly suspect – or indeed believe – that \"there must be something undefined beyond the mundane and that which can be known or can be proven\", but on the other hand do not necessarily accept or subscribe to the established belief system, dogma or view of the nature of a deity offered by any particular religion. Some of the English language related terms are agnostic theism (though very many ietsists do not believe in one or more gods and are thus atheists), eclecticism, deism and spiritual but not religious. \nIetsists might call themselves Christian or followers of an other religion based on cultural identification with that religion, without believing in the dogmas of that particular religion.\n\nThe name derives from the Dutch equivalent of the question: \"Do you believe in the conventional 'Christian' God?\", a typical \"ietsist\" answer being \"No, but there must be something\", \"something\" being \"iets\" in Dutch.\n\nThe atheist political columnist and molecular biologist Ronald Plasterk (who later served as the Dutch Minister of Education, Culture and Science and Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations) published a piece in 1997 in the magazine \"Intermediar\" in which he used the word. The term became widely known in the Netherlands after Plasterk used it in a feature for the television programme \"Buitenhof\". In October 2005, the word \"ietsisme\" was included in the 14th edition of the Dutch Language Dictionary \"Dikke Van Dale\".\n\nAround the year 2012, the word began to circulate among English speakers as a loanword. More recently, the word \"ietsers\" (\"somethingers\") has emerged in the Netherlands to describe people of this viewpoint, but this has not yet been borrowed into English.\n\nThe term \"ietsism\" is becoming more widely used in Europe, as opposed to the phrase 'spiritual but not religious' which prevails in North America. The word occurs inter alia in Dutch (\"ietsisme\"), German (\"Ietsismus\"), Russian (\"итсизм\"), Czech (\"něcismus\"), West Frisian (\"eatisme\"), Ukrainian (\"ітсизм\") and Belarusian (\"іцызм\").\n\nIetsism may roughly be described as a belief in an end-in-itself or similar concept, without further assumption as to exactly what object or objects have such a property, like intrinsic aliquidism without further specification. Other aliquidistic lifestances include the acceptance of \"there is something – that is, some meaning of life, something that is an end-in-itself or something more to existence – and it is...\", assuming various objects or truths, while ietsism, on the other hand simply accepts \"there is something\", without further specification, detailing or assumption.\n\nIn contrast to traditional agnostics who often hold a skeptical view about gods or other metaphysical entities (i.e. “We can't or don't know for sure that there is a God\"), “ietsists” take a viewpoint along the lines of, “And yet it \"feels\" like there is something out there...\" It is a form of religious liberalism or non-denominationalism. Ietsism may also be described as the minimal counterpart of nihilism, since it accepts that there is something, but yet, assumes as little further as possible without any more substantial evidence. \n\nWithin ietsism beliefs are very diverse but all have in common that they are not classifiable under a traditional religion. Often concepts from different religions, folk beliefs, superstitions or ideologies are combined, but the ietsist does not feel he/she belongs to or believes in the dogmas of any particular religion. There is usually not a personal god who actively intervenes in the believer's life and an ietsist can be an atheist at the same time. Some ietsists believe in an undetermined higher power or one of more specific theistic entities, others only in spiritual energies, souls or some form of afterlife. Ietsism often coincides with a belief in pseudoscience or paranormal phenomena such as acupuncture, angels, animistic deities and creatures, astrology, aura reading, chakras, clairvoyance, deities, elves, energy medicine, esoteric energy, ghosts, healing gemstones, homeopathy, karma or osteopathy. \n\nIetsism also shares many attributes with similar viewpoints such as Deism and the so-called 'God of the Gaps', whose origins lie more in questions about the nature and origin of the physical universe. It could be said that ietsism is 'Deism for the spiritually-inclined'.\n\nAs the ietsist will not have found any of the 'pre-packaged' gods offered by traditional religions satisfactory, each ietsist's conception of spirituality will be different. This can range from the Judeo/Christian/Islamic concept of God as a force / intelligence that exists outside the world, to a position similar to the Buddhist \"world view\", with collective spiritual power existing within the world. Other ietsists will take a truly agnostic viewpoint – that the actual nature of God is totally unknown or unknowable.\n\nAn opinion poll conducted by the Dutch daily newspaper \"Trouw\" in October 2004 indicated that some 40% of its readership felt broadly this way, and other Northern European countries would probably get similar rates. From a December 2014 survey by the VU University Amsterdam, it was concluded that the Dutch population has 27% ietsists, 31% agnostics, 25% atheists and 17% theists.\n\nAs ietsists cannot be neatly classified as religious or nonreligious, ietsism is somewhat notorious for mucking up statistics on religious demographics. Hence labeling ietsists as either religious or nonreligious will tilt the demographic balance for those countries to either predominantly religious or predominantly nonreligious.\n"}
{"id": "310864", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=310864", "title": "Intertwingularity", "text": "Intertwingularity\n\nIntertwingularity is a term coined by Ted Nelson to express the complexity of interrelations in human knowledge.\n\nNelson wrote in \"Computer Lib/Dream Machines\" : \"EVERYTHING IS DEEPLY INTERTWINGLED. In an important sense there are no \"subjects\" at all; there is only all knowledge, since the cross-connections among the myriad topics of this world simply cannot be divided up neatly.\"\n\nHe added the following comment in the revised edition : \"Hierarchical and sequential structures, especially popular since Gutenberg, are usually forced and artificial. Intertwingularity is not generally acknowledged—people keep pretending they can make things hierarchical, categorizable and sequential when they can't.\"\n\nIntertwingularity is related to Nelson's coining of the term hypertext, partially inspired by \"As We May Think\" (1945) by Vannevar Bush.\n\nPeter Morville, an influential figure in information architecture, discusses intertwingularity in some of his books. In \"Ambient Findability: What We Find Changes Who We Become\" (2005), Morville uses the concept of intertwingularity to describe the experience of using hypertext on the web and starting to use computers embedded in everyday objects, termed ubiquitous computing. In 2014 he published a book called \"Intertwingled: Information Changes Everything\" about the intertwingularity of the universe, crediting Nelson with the word. \n\nDavid Weinberger wrote about intertwingularity in \"Everything Is Miscellaneous: The Power of the New Digital Disorder\" in 2008, explaining that providing unique identifiers for items helps enable intertwingularity.\n\nThe concept of intertwingularity was celebrated at the \"Intertwingled: The Work and Influence of Ted Nelson\" conference on April 14, 2014 at Chapman University. The organizers published a book called \"Intertwingled: The Work and Influence of Ted Nelson\" in 2015, with articles about Nelson's work and legacy. One of the organizers of the conference and editors of the book, Douglas Dechow, said \"In the 1960s, he saw a world of networked, interlinked – intertwingled, if you will – documents where all of the world’s knowledge is able to interact and intermingle...He was the first, or among the first, people to have that idea.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "699712", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=699712", "title": "Introduction to Objectivist Epistemology", "text": "Introduction to Objectivist Epistemology\n\nIntroduction to Objectivist Epistemology is a work of philosophy by Ayn Rand (with an additional article by Leonard Peikoff). Rand considered it her most important philosophical writing. First published in installments in Rand's journal, \"The Objectivist\", July 1966 through February 1967, the work presents Rand's proposed solution to the historic problem of universals, describes how the theory can be extended to complex cases, and outlines how it applies to other issues in the theory of knowledge.\n\nRand bases her solution to the problem of universals on a quasi-mathematical analysis of similarity. Rejecting the common view that similarity is unanalyzable, she defines similarity as: \"the relationship between two or more existents which possess the same characteristic(s), but in different measure or degree.\"\n\nThe grasp of similarity, she holds, requires a contrast between the two or more similar items and a third item that differs from them, but differs along the same scale of measurement (which she termed a \"Conceptual Common Denominator\"). Thus two shades of blue, to be perceived as similar must be contrasted with something differing greatly in hue from both—e.g., a shade of red.\n\nAccordingly, Rand defines \"concept\" as: a \"mental integration of two or more units possessing the same distinguishing characteristic(s) with their particular measurements omitted.\"\n\nThe monograph includes chapters outlining the Objectivist theory of how higher-order concepts are formed (\"Abstraction from Abstraction\"), how measurement applies to phenomena of consciousness, the nature and cognitive significance of definitions (including a defense of essence as being \"epistemological\" not \"metaphysical\"), a theory of axiomatic \"concepts\", not axiomatic propositions, as being the base of conceptual cognition, the introduction of a \"principle of unit economy\" as crucial for judging and justifying and conceptual-level content, and a call for the wholesale rejection of the Kantian turn in philosophy, seeing Kant as falsely opposing the identity of consciousness to its cognitive validity—i.e., to its \"being\" conscious.\n\n\" ... the attack on man's consciousness and particularly on his conceptual faculty has rested on the unchallenged premise that any knowledge acquired by a \"process\" of consciousness is necessarily subjective and cannot correspond to the facts of reality, since it is \"'processed\" knowledge.' . . .\n\n\"All knowledge \"is\" processed knowledge--whether on the sensory, perceptual or conceptual level. An \"unprocessed\" knowledge would be a knowledge acquired without means of cognition. Consciousness (as I said in the first sentence of this work) is not a passive state, but an active process.\"\n\nAn additional essay by Peikoff, based on Rand's theory and edited by her, criticizes the analytic–synthetic distinction, arguing that it stems from a wrong theory of what is included in the meaning of a concept. A concept, Rand and Peikoff maintain, includes \"all\" the characteristics possessed by the referents, not just the defining characteristics.\n\nThe 1990 edition of \"Introduction to Objectivist Epistemology\" includes 200 pages of discussion between Rand and philosophy professionals, culled from tape recordings of the five \"Workshops in Objectivist Epistemology\" that Rand conducted in late 1969 through early 1970. The most active among those questioning Rand on the meaning and implication of her theory were John O. Nelson, George Walsh, Leonard Peikoff, Allan Gotthelf, and Harry Binswanger. About a dozen others participated to a lesser degree.\n\nRand's title essay was originally serialized in \"The Objectivist\" from July 1966 to February 1967, then reprinted by the Nathaniel Branden Institute later in 1967 as a booklet. Peikoff's essay was first published in \"The Objectivist\" in its May 1967 to September 1967 issues. The combined book was published by New American Library in 1979. The same publisher also put out the revised edition, co-edited by Peikoff and Harry Binswanger, in 1990.\n\nBoth the original and revised editions of the book received relatively little attention from reviewers, although there was a review in the journal \"Teaching Philosophy\".\nThe work has received extensive, in-depth exposition and development in: \"A Companion to Ayn Rand\" (Blackwell Companions to Philosophy) Wiley-Blackwell: 2016, Gotthelf and Salmieri (ed.), \"Concepts and Their Role in Knowledge: Reflections on Objectivist Epistemology\" (Ayn Rand Society Philosophical Studies), and \"How We Know: Epistemology on an Objectivist Foundation\" (Binswanger, TOF Publications: 2014).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "294037", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=294037", "title": "Johann Gottfried Herder", "text": "Johann Gottfried Herder\n\nJohann Gottfried (after 1802, von) Herder (; ; 25 August 174418 December 1803) was a German philosopher, theologian, poet, and literary critic. He is associated with the periods of Enlightenment, \"Sturm und Drang\", and Weimar Classicism.\n\nBorn in Mohrungen (now Morąg, Poland) in Kingdom of Prussia (in former Ducal Prussia), Herder grew up in a poor household, educating himself from his father's Bible and songbook. In 1762, as a youth of 17, he enrolled at the University of Königsberg, about 60 miles (100 km) north of Mohrungen, where he became a student of Immanuel Kant. At the same time, Herder became an intellectual protégé of Johann Georg Hamann, a Königsberg philosopher who disputed the claims of pure secular reason.\n\nHamann's influence led Herder to confess to his wife later in life that \"I have too little reason and too much idiosyncrasy\", yet Herder can justly claim to have founded a new school of German political thought. Although himself an unsociable person, Herder influenced his contemporaries greatly. One friend wrote to him in 1785, hailing his works as \"inspired by God.\" A varied field of theorists were later to find inspiration in Herder's tantalisingly incomplete ideas.\n\nIn 1764, now a clergyman, Herder went to Riga to teach. It was during this period that he produced his first major works, which were literary criticism.\n\nIn 1769 Herder traveled by ship to the French port of Nantes and continued on to Paris. This resulted in both an account of his travels as well as a shift of his own self-conception as an author.\n\nBy 1770 Herder went to Strasbourg, where he met the young Goethe. This event proved to be a key juncture in the history of German literature, as Goethe was inspired by Herder's literary criticism to develop his own style. This can be seen as the beginning of the \"Sturm und Drang\" movement. In 1771 Herder took a position as head pastor and court preacher at Bückeburg under Count Wilhelm von Schaumburg-Lippe.\n\nBy the mid-1770s, Goethe was a well-known author, and used his influence at the court of Weimar to secure Herder a position as General Superintendent. Herder moved there in 1776, where his outlook shifted again towards classicism.\n\nTowards the end of his career, Herder endorsed the French Revolution, which earned him the enmity of many of his colleagues. At the same time, he and Goethe experienced a personal split. Another reason for his isolation in later years was due to his unpopular attacks on Kantian philosophy.\n\nIn 1802 Herder was ennobled by the Elector-Prince of Bavaria, which added the prefix \"von\" to his last name. He died in Weimar in 1803 at age 59.\n\nIn 1772 Herder published \"Treatise on the Origin of Language\" and went further in this promotion of language than his earlier injunction to \"spew out the ugly slime of the Seine. Speak German, O You German\". Herder now had established the foundations of comparative philology within the new currents of political outlook.\n\nThroughout this period, he continued to elaborate his own unique theory of aesthetics in works such as the above, while Goethe produced works like \"The Sorrows of Young Werther\"the Sturm und Drang movement was born.\n\nHerder wrote an important essay on Shakespeare and \"Auszug aus einem Briefwechsel über Ossian und die Lieder alter Völker\" (Extract from a correspondence about Ossian and the Songs of Ancient Peoples) published in 1773 in a manifesto along with contributions by Goethe and Justus Möser. Herder wrote that \"A poet is the creator of the nation around him, he gives them a world to see and has their souls in his hand to lead them to that world.\" To him such poetry had its greatest purity and power in nations before they became civilised, as shown in the Old Testament, the Edda, and Homer, and he tried to find such virtues in ancient German folk songs and Norse poetry and mythology.\n\nAfter becoming General Superintendent in 1776, Herder's philosophy shifted again towards classicism, and he produced works such as his unfinished \"Outline of a Philosophical History of Humanity\" which largely originated the school of historical thought. Herder's philosophy was of a deeply subjective turn, stressing influence by physical and historical circumstance upon human development, stressing that \"one must go into the age, into the region, into the whole history, and feel one's way into everything\". The historian should be the \"regenerated contemporary\" of the past, and history a science as \"instrument of the most genuine patriotic spirit\".\n\nHerder gave Germans new pride in their origins, modifying that dominance of regard allotted to Greek art (\"Greek revival\") extolled among others by Johann Joachim Winckelmann and Gotthold Ephraim Lessing. He remarked that he would have wished to be born in the Middle Ages and mused whether \"the times of the Swabian emperors\" did not \"deserve to be set forth in their true light in accordance with the German mode of thought?\". Herder equated the German with the Gothic and favoured Dürer and everything Gothic. As with the sphere of art, equally he proclaimed a national message within the sphere of language. He topped the line of German authors emanating from Martin Opitz, who had written his \"Aristarchus, sive de contemptu linguae Teutonicae\" in Latin in 1617, urging Germans to glory in their hitherto despised language. Herder's extensive collections of folk-poetry began a great craze in Germany for that neglected topic.\n\nHerder was one of the first to argue that language contributes to shaping the frameworks and the patterns with which each linguistic community thinks and feels. For Herder, language is 'the organ of thought'. This has often been misinterpreted, however. Neither Herder nor the great philosopher of language, Wilhelm von Humboldt, argue that language determines thought. Language is both the means and the expression of man's creative capacity to think together with others. And in this sense, when Humboldt argues that all thinking is thinking in language, he is perpetuating the Herder tradition. But for both thinkers, culture, language, thinking, feeling, and above all the literature of individuals and the people's folk traditions are expressions of free-spirited groups and individuals expressing themselves in space and time. \nTwo centuries later, these ideas continue to stimulate thinkers, linguists and anthropologists, and they have often been considered central to the Sapir–Whorf hypothesis, and the American linguistic anthropology tradition inspired by Boas, and more recently, Dell Hymes. \nHerder's focus upon language and cultural traditions as the ties that create a \"nation\" extended to include folklore, dance, music and art, and inspired Jacob and Wilhelm Grimm in their collection of German folk tales. Arguably, the greatest inheritor of Herder's linguistic philosophy was Wilhelm von Humboldt. Humboldt's great contribution lay in developing Herder's idea that language is \"the organ of thought\" into his own belief that languages were specific worldviews (\"Weltansichten\"), as Jürgen Trabant argues in the Wilhelm von Humboldt lectures on the Rouen Ethnolinguistics Project website.\n\nHerder attached exceptional importance to the concept of nationality and of patriotism\"he that has lost his patriotic spirit has lost himself and the whole worlds about himself\", whilst teaching that \"in a certain sense every human perfection is national\". Herder carried folk theory to an extreme by maintaining that \"there is only one class in the state, the \"Volk\", (not the rabble), and the king belongs to this class as well as the peasant\". Explanation that the \"Volk\" was not the rabble was a novel conception in this era, and with Herder can be seen the emergence of \"the people\" as the basis for the emergence of a classless but hierarchical national body.\n\nThe nation, however, was individual and separate, distinguished, to Herder, by climate, education, foreign intercourse, tradition and heredity. Providence he praised for having \"wonderfully separated nationalities not only by woods and mountains, seas and deserts, rivers and climates, but more particularly by languages, inclinations and characters\". Herder praised the tribal outlook writing that \"the savage who loves himself, his wife and child with quiet joy and glows with limited activity of his tribe as for his own life is in my opinion a more real being than that cultivated shadow who is enraptured with the shadow of the whole species\", isolated since \"each nationality contains its centre of happiness within itself, as a bullet the centre of gravity\". With no need for comparison since \"every nation bears in itself the standard of its perfection, totally independent of all comparison with that of others\" for \"do not nationalities differ in everything, in poetry, in appearance, in tastes, in usages, customs and languages? Must not religion which partakes of these also differ among the nationalities?\"\n\nFollowing a trip to Ukraine, Herder wrote a prediction in his diary (\"Journal meiner Reise im Jahre 1769\") that Slavic nations would one day be the real power in Europe, as the western Europeans would reject Christianity and rot away, while the eastern European nations would stick to their religion and their idealism, and would this way become the power in Europe. More specifically, he praised Ukraine's \"beautiful skies, blithe temperament, musical talent, bountiful soil, etc. [...] someday will awaken there a cultured nation whose influence will spread [...] throughout the world.\" One of his related predictions was that the Hungarian nation would disappear and become assimilated by surrounding Slavic peoples; this prophecy caused considerable uproar in Hungary and is widely cited to this day.\n\nThis question was further developed by Herder's lament that Martin Luther did not establish a national church, and his doubt whether Germany did not buy Christianity at too high a price, that of true nationality. Herder's patriotism bordered at times upon national pantheism, demanding of territorial unity as \"He is deserving of glory and gratitude who seeks to promote the unity of the territories of Germany through writings, manufacture, and institutions\" and sounding an even deeper call:\n\nIn his \"Ideas upon Philosophy and the History of Mankind\" he wrote: \"Compare England with Germany: the English are Germans, and even in the latest times the Germans have led the way for the English in the greatest things.\"\n\nHerder, who hated absolutism and Prussian nationalism, but who was imbued with the spirit of the whole German \"Volk\", yet as a historical theorist turned away from the ideas of the eighteenth century. Seeking to reconcile his thought with this earlier age, Herder sought to harmonize his conception of sentiment with reasoning, whereby all knowledge is implicit in the soul; the most elementary stage is the sensuous and intuitive perception which by development can become self-conscious and rational. To Herder, this development is the harmonizing of primitive and derivative truth, of experience and intelligence, feeling and reasoning.\n\nHerder is the first in a long line of Germans preoccupied with this harmony. This search is itself the key to the understanding of many German theories of the time; however Herder understood and feared the extremes to which his folk-theory could tend, and so issued specific warnings. He argued that Jews in Germany should enjoy the full rights and obligations of Germans, and that the non-Jews of the world owed a debt to Jews for centuries of abuse, and that this debt could be discharged only by actively assisting those Jews who wished to do so to regain political sovereignty in their ancient homeland of Israel. Herder refused to adhere to a rigid racial theory, writing that \"notwithstanding the varieties of the human form, there is but one and the same species of man throughout the whole earth\".\n\nHe also announced that \"national glory is a deceiving seducer. When it reaches a certain height, it clasps the head with an iron band. The enclosed sees nothing in the mist but his own picture; he is susceptible to no foreign impressions.\"\n\nThe passage of time was to demonstrate that while many Germans were to find influence in Herder's convictions and influence, fewer were to note his qualifying stipulations.\n\nHerder had emphasised that his conception of the nation encouraged democracy and the free self-expression of a people's identity. He proclaimed support for the French Revolution, a position which did not endear him to royalty. He also differed with Kant's philosophy for not placing reasoning within the context of language. Herder did not think that reason itself could be criticized, as it did not exist except as the process of reasoning. This process was dependent on language. He also turned away from the Sturm und Drang movement to go back to the poems of Shakespeare and Homer.\n\nTo promote his concept of the \"Volk\", he published letters and collected folk songs. These latter were published in 1773 as \"Voices of the Peoples in Their Songs\" (\"Stimmen der Völker in ihren Liedern\"). The poets Achim von Arnim and Clemens von Brentano later used \"Stimmen der Völker\" as samples for \"The Boy's Magic Horn\" (\"Des Knaben Wunderhorn\").\n\nHerder also fostered the ideal of a person's individuality. Although he had from an early period championed the individuality of cultures – for example, in his \"This Too a Philosophy of History for the Formation of Humanity\" (1774), he also championed the individuality of \"persons\" within a culture; for example, in his \"On Thomas Abbt's Writings\" (1768) and \"On the Cognition and Sensation of the Human Soul\" (1778).\n\nIn \"On Thomas Abbt's Writings\", Herder stated that \"a human soul is an\nindividual in the realm of minds: it senses in accordance with an individual formation, and thinks in accordance with the strength of its mental organs. ... My long allegory has succeeded if it achieves the representation of the mind of a human being as an individual phenomenon, as a rarity which deserves to occupy our eyes.\"\n\nHerder has been described as a proto-evolutionary thinker by some science historians, although this has been disputed by others. Concerning the history of life on earth, Herder proposed naturalistic and metaphysical (religious) ideas, that are difficult to distinguish and interpret. He was known for proposing a Great chain of being.\n\nIn his book \"From the Greeks to Darwin\", Henry Fairfield Osborn wrote that \"in a general way he upholds the doctrine of the transformation of the lower and higher forms of life, of a continuous transformation from lower to higher types, and of the law of Perfectibility.\" However, biographer Wulf Köpke disagreed noting that \"biological evolution from animals to the human species was outside of his thinking, which was still influenced by the idea of divine creation.\"\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7583340", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7583340", "title": "Journalist's Creed", "text": "Journalist's Creed\n\nThe Journalist's Creed is a personal affirmation of journalism ethics written by Walter Williams in 1914. The creed has been published in more than 100 languages, and a bronze plaque of The Journalist's Creed hangs at the National Press Club in Washington, D.C. Williams was the founding dean of the Missouri School of Journalism.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27897131", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27897131", "title": "Knut Erik Tranøy", "text": "Knut Erik Tranøy\n\nKnut Erik Tranøy (December 10, 1918 – March 19, 2012) was a Norwegian philosopher. \n\nDuring World War II Tranøy, along with 700 other Norwegian students, was deported to the Buchenwald concentration camp in Germany. He was appointed professor at the University of Bergen from 1959, and at the University of Oslo from 1978. His main contributions have been in fields of ethics, particularly in medicine and science. He is a member of the Norwegian Academy of Science and Letters from 1979. He was decorated as Knight, First Class of the Royal Norwegian Order of St. Olav in 2002.\n\nHe resided at Fossum terrasse.\n\n"}
{"id": "3908174", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3908174", "title": "Lovers' lane", "text": "Lovers' lane\n\nA lovers' lane is a secluded area where people kiss, make out, or sometimes engage in sexual activity. These areas range from parking lots in secluded rural areas to places with extraordinary views of a cityscape or other feature.\n\n\"Lovers' lanes\" are typically found in cultures built around the automobile—lovers often make out in a car or van for privacy.\n\nLovers' lanes have existed for centuries, sometimes as places for secret meetings with a loved one or as a euphemism for red-light districts and other areas of prostitution.\n\nThe Oxford English Dictionary records use of the phrase \"lovers' lane\" from 1853.\n\nThere are several streets called \"Lovers Lane\", including those at Oriskany, New York; Whitmire, South Carolina; Manitou Springs, Colorado; Baton Rouge, Louisiana; Kersey, Pennsylvania; Boonville, New York; Greenfield, Massachusetts; Southborough, Massachusetts; Northfield, Vermont; Riverton, Utah; Steubenville, Ohio; Bowling Green, Kentucky; Portage, Michigan; Excelsior Springs, Missouri; Springfield, Missouri; Charlestown, New Hampshire; Sugar Hill, New Hampshire; Princeton, New Jersey; Slatington, Pennsylvania; Adliya, Bahrain; Dallas, Texas; Texarkana, Texas; Ravenna Township, Portage County, Ohio; Visalia, California; El Segundo, California, Milwaukee, Wisconsin; Ancaster, Ontario, Canada; Newark-on-Trent; Ludham (both in England) and Thurso, Scotland.\n\n\nThe bowdlerised version \"Love Lane\" is sometimes seen. Jowett Walk, Oxford, once had this name.\n\nIn 1963, a lovers' lane site at Fuller's Bridge, Sydney became notorious as the location of the bodies of CSIRO scientist Dr. Gilbert Stanley Bogle and Mrs. Margaret Olive Chandler, the wife of one of his colleagues. The cause of death, while indicative of poisoning, couldn't be definitively determined, and apart from Mrs. Chandler's husband, Geoffrey, who was considered the prime suspect by the New South Wales Police, no one to-date has been charged. The Bogle-Chandler case has baffled law enforcement and forensic experts up to present day.\n\nSeveral of the Zodiac Killer's victims were murdered in lovers' lanes in northern California.\n\nSeveral attacks perpetrated by the Son of Sam serial killer also took place in such settings.\n\nTwo Mercer University students were killed by Andy Cook at a lovers' lane location in Georgia on January 2, 1995.\n\n"}
{"id": "37541315", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37541315", "title": "M. M. McCabe", "text": "M. M. McCabe\n\nMary Margaret Anne McCabe, FBA (born 18 December 1948), known as M. M. McCabe, is emerita professor of ancient philosophy at King's College London. She has authored a number of books on Plato and published work on other ancient philosophers, including the pre-Socratics, Socrates and Aristotle.\n\nMcCabe was educated at Oxford High School for Girls, and then studied at Newnham College, University of Cambridge, taking her BA In 1970 and PhD in 1977 in Classics. Her doctoral thesis, 'Plato's theory of punishment and its antecedents', formed the basis of her first book, \"Plato on Punishment,\" published in 1981.\n\nFrom 1981 to 1990 McCabe was Fellow in Classics at New Hall, University of Cambridge. She joined King's College London in 1990 and retired from her chair in Ancient Philosophy in 2014. She is now Keeling Scholar and Honorary Professor in Philosophy at University College London, and a Bye-Fellow of Newnham College, Cambridge.\n\nIn 2017 McCabe gave the Sather Lectures at the University of California, Berkeley, on the subject of 'Seeing and Saying: Plato on Virtue and Knowledge'.\n\nMcCabe was president of the British Philosophical Association from 2009-12, and president of the Mind Association in 2016-7.\n\nIn July 2017, McCabe was elected a Fellow of the British Academy (FBA), the United Kingdom's national academy for the humanities and social sciences.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7475252", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7475252", "title": "Maria Kannon Zen Center", "text": "Maria Kannon Zen Center\n\nMaria Kannon Zen Center (MKZC) is a non-profit practice center in the Sanbo Kyodan tradition of Zen Buddhism, located in Dallas, Texas and founded in 1991 by the guiding teacher Ruben Habito (a Dharma heir of Yamada Koun). MKZC derives its name by combining the names of the Virgin Mary of Christianity and Kannon bodhisattva of Buddhism. It is actually the name of a figurine revered in Japan during Christian persecution there. Many of the MKZC members are individuals who consider themselves Christian, with Habito himself being a practicing Catholic and former Jesuit priest. MKZC is listed with the American Zen Teachers Association.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5912092", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5912092", "title": "Ogyū Sorai", "text": "Ogyū Sorai\n\nSorai was born the second son of a samurai who served as the personal physician of Tokugawa Tsunayoshi, who would become the fifth shōgun. Sorai studied the Zhu Xi version of Song Confucianism, and by 1690 he became a private teacher of Chinese classics. He went into the service of Yanagisawa Yoshiyasu, a senior councillor to Tsunayoshi, in 1696. He left in 1709 after the death of Tsunayoshi and would turn away from the teachings of Zhu Xi to develop his own philosophy and school. He is credited with the creation of kō shōgi, an unusual form of chess.\n\nSorai would write several influential works. In them he identified two fundamental weaknesses in the philosophy of Song Confucianism. The first was in the bakufu-domain system, which by the eighteenth century was in trouble. As a result, he doubted whether the reliance on finding an individual's ethical good was sufficient. As such he argued that the political crisis of the time required more than perfecting moral character. Moreover, he saw the ancient Chinese sage-kings as concerned not only with morality but also with government itself. His second disagreement with Song Confucianism was that he felt putting too much emphasis on morality repressed human nature, which was based on human emotion.\n\nHowever, these weaknesses he felt stemmed not from a deficiency in Confucianism itself, but rather from a misreading of classic works of the Four Books and the Five Classics by Song Confucianists, which he insisted \"did not know the old words.\" Sorai went back to the ancient works for more reliable knowledge, stating \"The ultimate form of scholarly knowledge is history.\" To him, these historical works were the ultimate source, even for an ever-changing present. Sorai thought that study of philosophy began with the study of language. In this he was highly influenced by the Ancient Rhetoric school of the Ming period, which was a neoclassical movement that saw the Qin and Han periods as the model for prose, and the Tang period for poetry. The Sorai school introduced \"Selections of Tang Poetry\", a work thought to have been edited by Li Panlong (李攀竜 1514-70), a founder of the Ancient Rhetoric school, to Japan, where it became very popular. As a result, his school is today sometimes also known as the Ancient Rhetoric (\"kobunji\" 古文辞) school. However it differed in that he saw it mostly as a means of accessing the Five Classics. He would also accuse other Confucianists in Japan, such as Hayashi Razan, of relying too heavily on Song sources such as Zhu Xi.\n\nSorai further differed from the Song Confucian viewpoints in other aspects. One was that the \"Way\" was not a predetermined principle of the universe, but rather an establishment of men, of the ancient sages who described it in the Confucianist classic works. These works provided for the Way, which was divided by rites (\"rei\" 礼) and music (\"gaku\" 楽). The former gave social order, while the latter was inspiration for the heart. In this it directly allowed for the flow of human emotions, something denied by the moralist philosophy of Song Confucianism. Sorai argued for the opposite, allowing one to be enriched through music and poetry. As a result of his teachings in putting emphasis on literature as a fundamental form of human expression, Chinese writing would begin to thrive in Japan, becoming an accepted artistic pursuit. His school would thus produce several such great writers of Chinese composition at that time.\n\nSorai was furthermore a supporter of the samurai class. Institutions that were once under great leadership will later decline and more able men will be less likely to come to power. The samurai, he felt, were best able to overcome this through a system of rewards and punishment. He also saw problems with the merchant class at the time, which he accused of conspiring to fix prices. He was not, however, a great supporter of the lower classes. He argued, \"What possible value can there be for the common people to overreach their proper station in life and study such books [as the Confucian classics]?\"\n\nSome later scholars criticised his work and found his teaching to be impractical. Goi Ranshū believed that Sorai was motivated to surpass Itō Jinsai, another Confucianist who had influenced him a great deal, and that Sorai took his arguments to the level of abursdity for this reason. Had any of his teachings actually been implemented, Goi felt it would have caused extensive damage to moral philosophy. Another later scholar critical of Ogyū's teachings was Nakai Chikuzan, who was also familiar with Goi's opposition to Ogyū Sorai. Goi wrote his opposition to Sorai in his essay \"Hi-Butsu hen\", which was written in the 1730s, but not published until 1766 having been edited by Chikuzan and his brother. Nakai later wrote his own, highly emotional, rebuttal to Ogyū's beliefs in his work \"Hi-Chō\" (1785), wherein he rejected the idea that individuals could not better themselves through moral choices. Moreover, he claimed individuals were able judge whether external ideas and actions as true or just. Denial of these morals, he felt, would leave only \"rites and rules\" to be followed.\n\n\"Master Sorai's Teachings\" is a record of his teaching and exchanges with his students. The text was edited by his own students and contained their questions followed by his answers to them. The work was not released until 1724, but is thought to have actually taken place around 1720. In it he reinforces that literature is not so much intended for the purposes of instruction in morality or governance, but rather it simply allows for the flow of human emotions. From this, answers on the former topics may be found, he argued. While Ogyu sought to redefine the sources of Tokugawa legitimacy, his purpose was clearly to strengthen the authority of the Tokugawa shogunate.\n\n\nHe has also been credited for the invention of ko shogi, a large shogi variant, dated to before 1694.\n\n"}
{"id": "28221925", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28221925", "title": "Paul Crowther", "text": "Paul Crowther\n\nPaul Crowther (; born 24 August 1953), is a professor of philosophy and author specialising in the fields of aesthetics, metaphysics, and visual culture. He has written nine books in the field of History of Art and Philosophy. He was born in Leeds, West Riding of Yorkshire, England, and he was raised in the Belle Isle estate, Hunslet, and Middleton areas of south Leeds. He began taking an interest in art and philosophy at the age of 16. He is a proponent of an approach to aesthetics he dubbed \"post-analytic phenomenology\".\n\nCrowther initially enrolled at the University of Manchester to study history and politics. He subsequently migrated to the University of Leeds where he took a joint honours degree in Philosophy and the History of Art. He was a graduate student at the University of York and also holds a teaching certificate in Classical Studies. He obtained his doctorate in philosophy from the University of Oxford. Crowther is a former fellow of Corpus Christi College, Oxford where he was a lecturer at the Department of the History of Art and Reader in the History Faculty. He has also taught at the University of St Andrew's (Fife, Scotland), the University of Central Lancashire, and Jacobs University Bremen. At present, Crowther holds the post of Chair of Philosophy at the National University of Ireland, Galway.\n\nCrowther's interests and expertise are in the fields of visual aesthetics, phenomenology, and Kant. Works by him on the philosophy of visual art have been translated into Chinese, Korean, German, and Serbian, amongst other languages.\n\nIn 2014, Crowther — together with Slovenian artist Mojca Oblak, and assistance from the Ministry of Culture of Slovenia and the Moore Institute in Galway, Ireland — organized an exhibition of Victorian art entitled \"Awakening Beauty\" at the National Gallery in Ljubljana, Slovenia.\n\n"}
{"id": "6931929", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6931929", "title": "Pranava yoga", "text": "Pranava yoga\n\nPranava yoga is meditation on the sacred mantra Om, as outlined in the Upanishads, the \"Bhagavad Gita\", and the \"Yoga Sutras of Patanjali\". It is also called \"Aum yoga\" and \"Aum yoga meditation\". It is, simply put, fixing the mind on the sound of the mantra “Aum” – the sacred syllable that both symbolizes and embodies Brahman, the Absolute Reality – as the mantra is constantly repeated in unison with the breath. The purpose of pranava yoga is to become free from suffering and limitation.\n\nThe purpose is well stated in the Upanishads: “What world does he who meditates on Aum until the end of his life, win by That? If he meditates on the Supreme Being with the syllable Aum, he becomes one with the Light, he is led to the world of Brahman [the Absolute Being] Who is higher than the highest life, That Which is tranquil, unaging, immortal, fearless, and supreme.” – Prashna Upanishad 5:1,5,7\n\nAum, according to Hindu philosophy, is the primordial sound from which the whole universe was created. Aum, also called the Pranava, is the original Word of Power, and is recited as a mantra. A mantra is a series of verbal sounds having inherent sound-power that can produce a particular physical or psychological effect, not just something that has an assigned intellectual meaning. The word mantra derives from the Sanskrit expression ‘\"mananaath thraayathe\"’ which loosely means “a transforming thought”; literally, “that which, when thought, carries one across [the worldly ocean of sorrow]”. The power of a mantra lies in its ability to produce an objective, perceptible change in the yogi who repeats it correctly.\n\nIn the yoga tradition, Aum is the most sacred of holy words, the supreme mantra. Aum is also called the Pranava, a Sanskrit word which means both controller of life force (prana) and life-giver (infuser of prana). “That which causes all the pranas to prostrate themselves before and get merged in the Paramatman, so as to attain identity with Him, is for that reason known as the Pranava.” – Atharvashikha Upanishad 1:10a. Aum is called the Shabda Brahman – God as Sound/Vibration. According to yoga theory, the universe has emanated from this primal movement in God. By following the thread of Aum back in meditation to more and more subtle levels of awareness, the yogi regains union with Brahman.\n\nThe Upanishads (both the major and minor) are full of references to Aum and meditation on Aum. Below is a small sampling:\n\n\nSpeaking from the perspective of the Infinite Being, enumerating his major manifestation-embodiments, Krishna says: \"I am the syllable Om.\"(Gita 7:8) He also says the same thing in 9:17 (\"I am...the sacred monosyllable\") and 10:25 (\"Among words I am the monosyllable Om\").\n\nWhat to \"do\" with aum is then outlined by Krishna: \"Engaged in the practice of concentration... uttering the monosyllable Om--the Brahman--remembering Me always, he...attains to the supreme goal. I am easily attainable by that ever-steadfast Yogi who constantly and daily remembers Me.\"– \"Bhagavad Gita\" 6:13; 8:12-14\n\nPatanjali’s Yoga Sutras, the most ancient and authoritative text on Yoga, outlines the purpose and process of yoga as follows:\n\n\"Ishwara [God] is a particular Purusha [Spirit, Person] Who is untouched by the afflictions of life, actions, and the results and impressions produced by these actions. In Him is the highest limit of omniscience. 36 Being unconditioned by time He is teacher even of the ancients. His designator [vachaka] is the Pranava [Om]. 37 Its japa [constant repetition] and bhavanam is the way [or: should be done]. From it result [come] the disappearance of obstacles and the turning inward of consciousness. Disease, languor, doubt, carelessness, laziness, worldly-mindedness, delusion, non-achievement of a stage, instability, these cause the distraction of the mind and they are the obstacles. [Mental] pain, despair, nervousness, and agitation are the symptoms of a distracted condition of mind. For removing these obstacles [there should be] the constant practice of the one principle [the japa and bhavanam of Om].\" – \"Yoga Sutras of Patanjali\" 1:24-32\n\nAum meditation is part of Kriya Yoga teachings. In addition to chanting the sound of aum, this meditation involves inhaling and exhaling while chanting aum in a very specific mudra.\n\n“[Remembrance of the Pranava] must become so automatic that you cannot breathe without remembering It.”\n\n“Om is the root of all sounds. Every other sound is contained in That, and It is used to take one beyond all sound.”\n\n“OM is the mantra, the expressive sound-symbol of the Brahman Consciousness in its four domains from the Turiya to the external or material plane. The function of a mantra is to create vibrations in the inner consciousness that will prepare it for the realisation of what the mantra symbolises and is supposed indeed to carry within itself. The mantra OM should therefore lead towards the opening of the consciousness to the sight and feeling of the One Consciousness in all material things, in the inner being and in the supraphysical worlds, in the causal plane above now superconscient to us and, finally, the supreme liberated transcendence above all cosmic existence. The last is usually the main preoccupation with those who use the mantra.” \"Letters on Yoga\", Vol. II, p. 745-46\n\n“If you are a serious student of Vedic mantras, you will chant Om because Vedic mantras begin with Om. Om, or the Omkara, is Krishna. Many people are fond of chanting Omkara. That is also nice, because Omkara is Krishna. If we simply remember, ‘This Omkara is Krishna,’ then we become perfect, because the goal is to become Krishna conscious. So you can become Krishna conscious while chanting Om.”\n\n“Om is the highest Name of God, and comprises many other Names of God. It should be borne in mind that Om is the Name of God exclusively–and of no other object material or spiritual–while the others are but descriptive titles and not exactly proper names.”\n\n“This is the Ultimate Word: but can any express its marvellous savor? He who has savored it once, he knows what joy it can give. Kabir says: Knowing it, the ignorant man becomes wise, and the wise man becomes speechless and silent.”\n\n“Constant japa of the Pranava, Omkar, Which is self-revealing, and constant focus on It as the form of Ishvara, and dedicating all actions to It as if you are not the doer yourself; is Kriya Yoga.”\n\n“Following the path of discrimination, let the pure mind be firmly fixed in Om.”\n\n“‘What will you gain’, some sages ask, ‘by merely hearing this sound?’ You hear the roar of the ocean from a distance. By following the roar you can reach the ocean. As long as there is the roar, there must also be the ocean. By following the trail of Om you attain Brahman, of which the Word is the symbol. That Brahman has been described by the Vedas as the ultimate goal.”\n\n“The purport of prescribing meditation on the Pranava is this. The Pranava is Omkara…the advaita-mantra which is the essence of all mantras…. In order to get at this true significance, one should meditate on the Pranava. …The fruition of this process is samadhi which yields release [moksha], which is the state of unsurpassable bliss.”\n\nIn the book \"Om Chanting and Meditation\":\n\nyoga charya chandrasekhar\nThe founder of pranava yoga center first started in Nellore town of andhra pradesh on 1996 and later on it was shifted to Hyderabad of Andhra pradesh and followed by his western disples. Activitists who spread pranava yoga to westerns\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4935061", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4935061", "title": "Pre-existing duty rule", "text": "Pre-existing duty rule\n\nThe pre-existing duty rule is an aspect of consideration within the law of contract. Originating in England (the world's quintessential common law jurisdiction) the concept of consideration has been adopted by other jurisdictions, including the US.\n\nIn essence, this rule declares that performance of a pre-existing duty does not amount to good consideration to support a valid contract; but there are exceptions to the rule.\n\nEnglish law recognises bargains supported by consideration, not bare promises. However, only simple contracts need consideration to be enforceable; special contracts do not require consideration. \n\n\"Currie v Misa\" (1875) declares that consideration may comprise any of these positive and negative matters: \nThe leading case is \"Stilk v Myrick\" (1809), where a captain promised 8 crew the wages of 2 deserters provided the remainers completed the voyage. The shipowner refused to honour the agreement; the court deemed the 8 crew were unable to enforce the deal as they had an existing obligation to sail the ship and meet \"ordinary foreseeable emergencies\".\n\nHowever, in two cases the courts held that a claimant provides good consideration provided they act \"above and beyond\" their contractual obligation:\n\nThe rule may be affected by issues of public policy, as in:\n\"Collins v Godefroy\" (1831) , \"England v Davidson\" (1840) and \"Williams v Williams\" [1957] \n\nThe court may also be happy to enforce an agreement provided that is gives benefit:\n\nAny contracting party cannot who wished to amend the agreement must provide new consideration. This situatiation typically usually arises in any of three different ways:\n\nIf one party has performed their part of the contract, but the other party refuses to pay unless the amount owed is reduced, the full amount remains payable: \"Pinnel's Case\" (1602). Any attempt to use promissory estoppel will fail if the debtor behaves inequitably: \"D&C Builders v Rees\"[1966]\n\nOne party refuses to perform her side of the contract unless a larger sum of money is paid. For example, Christine agrees to sell Julian a set of textbooks for $300. Julian wires $300 to his friend Jake, who is charged with picking up the textbooks and delivering the $300. After the money has been wired and delivery arrangements have been made, Christine calls Julian and states that she has changed the price to $350 and will not deliver the books to Jake unless Julian promises to pay an additional $50. The rule will apply so Julian could agree to pay the extra money but then not do so when the books are delivered. (If Julian actually paid the extra money, he could sue later under \"duress\" to recover the $50.)\n\nThe party seeking payment already has a public duty to perform the act. For example, a government employee polygraph expert might ask a criminal about an unrelated crime during the administration of a polygraph. If the criminal admits to the crime and the employee then seeks a reward for identifying the perpetrator, he would not be entitled to it under the legal duty rule because he already has a public duty to find out about crimes.\n\nThe legal duty rule does not apply if the parties mutually agree to change the terms of the contract. For example, the homeowner and contractor could agree to modify their contract to include a new window for the bathroom at an additional cost of $1000. Alternatively, the parties could agree not to perform part of the contract for a $500 reduction in the price. Both modifications to the original contract would be enforceable because there was consideration for each. The legal duty rule protects one party when the other is trying to unilaterally change the terms of the agreement.\n\nThere are ways around the legal duty rule, such as mutual rescission of the existing contract with a clear indication of such rescission (literally tearing up the old contract). Also, in some states, parties may renegotiate contracts to include additional benefits if, for example, the party performs unexpected or additional duties, the parties assent in good faith, or a new contract is agreed.\n\nIf contractual parties owe each other existing contractual obligations but a third party offers a promise contingent upon performance of the contract, that promise has sufficient consideration.\n\nConsideration will be found if a party promises to perform where there are unforeseen and/or unforeseeable circumstances sufficient to discharge the party from the obligation if any new or different consideration is promised (earlier payment or payment in stock), the promise is to ratify a voidable obligation (such as to go through despite fraud), the preexisting duty is owed to another person, and there is an honest dispute as to the duty.\n\nAlso, under the Uniform Commercial Code, modifications may be made free of the Common Law legal duty rule even without consideration provided that the modification is made in good faith. See UCC § 2-209. However, the Statute of Frauds must be complied with. Thus, a written contract is necessary if the contract as modified comes within the scope of that statute. For purposes of the UCC, a contract must be in writing if it is for the sale of goods where the price exceeds $500. UCC § 2-201.\n\nThe pre-existing duty rule has been abrogated under the \"Restatement, Second of Contracts § 89\", which does not require independent consideration if the parties mutually and voluntarily agree to the modification (see \"Angel v. Murray\" for an early application of the Restatement). The restatement, however, will not always be followed, as evidenced by the decision in \"Labriola v. Pollard Group, Inc.\".\n\nThe pre-existing duty rule plays a part in salvage which is a \"voluntary successful service to save maritime property in danger at sea\". The service must be \"voluntary\", which in this context means that the salvor must not have an existing duty towards the ship. Generally, a ship's crew cannot claim salvage unless (i) they have been ordered to abandon ship (so that their contract of employment has ended), \"The San Demetrio\" (1941); or (ii) the crew act over and beyond their normal duty to look after the safety of the ship, \"The Beaver\" (1800).\n\n"}
{"id": "34017095", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34017095", "title": "Privacy for research participants", "text": "Privacy for research participants\n\nPrivacy for research participants is a concept in research ethics which states that a person in human subject research has a right to privacy when participating in research. Some examples of typical scenarios are that a surveyor doing social research conducts an interview where the research participant is a respondent, or when a researcher for a clinical trial asks for a blood sample from a participant to see if there is a relationship between something which can be measured in blood and a person's health. In both cases, the ideal outcome is that any participant can join the study and neither the researcher nor the study design nor the publication of the study results would ever identify any participant in the study.\n\nPeople decide to participate in research for any number of different reasons, such as a personal interest, a desire to promote research which benefits their community, or for other reasons. Various guidelines for human subject research protect study participants who choose to participate in research, and the international consensus is that the rights of people who participate in studies are best protected when the study participant can trust that researchers will not connect the identities of study participants with their input into the study.\n\nMany study participants have experienced problems when their privacy was not upheld after participating in research. Sometimes privacy is not kept because of insufficient study protection, but also sometimes it is because of unanticipated problems with the study design which inadvertently compromise privacy. The privacy of research participants is typically protected by the research organizer, but the institutional review board is a designated overseer which monitors the organizer to provide protection to study participants.\n\nResearchers publish data that they get from participants. To preserve participants' privacy, the data goes through a process to de-identify it. The goal of such a process would be to remove protected health information which could be used to connect a study participant to their contribution to a research project so that the participants will not suffer from data re-identification.\n\nA privacy attack is the exploitation of an opportunity for someone to identify a study participant based on public research data. The way that this might work is that researchers collect data, including confidential identifying data, from study participants. This produces an identified dataset. Before the data is sent for research processing, it is \"de-identified\", which means that personally identifying data is removed from the dataset. Ideally, this means that the dataset alone could not be used to identify a participant.\n\nIn some cases, the researchers simply misjudge the information in a de-identified dataset and actually it is identifying, or perhaps the advent of new technology makes the data identifying. In other cases, the published de-identified data can be cross-referenced with other data sets, and by finding matches between an identified dataset and the de-identified data set, participants in the de-identified set may be revealed.\n\nThe ideal situation from the research perspective is the free sharing of data. Since privacy for research participants is a priority, though, various proposals for protecting participants have been made for different purposes. Replacing the real data with synthetic data allows the researchers to show data which gives a conclusion equivalent to the one drawn by the researchers, but the data may have problems such as being unfit for repurposing for other research. Other strategies include \"noise addition\" by making random value changes or \"data swapping\" by exchanging values across entries. Still another approach is to separate the identifiable variables in the data from the rest, aggregate the identifiable variables and reattach them with the rest of the data. This principle has been used successfully in creating maps of diabetes in Australia and the United Kingdom using confidential General Practice clinic data.\n\nA biobank is a place where human biological specimens are kept for research, and often where genomics data is paired with phenotype data and personally-identifying data. For many reasons, biobank research has created new controversies, perspectives, and challenges for satisfying the rights of student participants and the needs of the researchers to access resources for their work.\n\nOne problem is that if even a small percentage of genetic information is available, that information can be used to uniquely identify the individual from which it came. Studies have shown that a determination of whether an individual participated in a study can be made even from reporting of aggregate data.\n\nWhen research participants have their identities revealed they may have problems. Concerns include facing genetic discrimination from an insurance company or employer. Respondents in the United States have expressed a desire to have their research data to be restricted from access by law enforcement agencies and would want to prevent a connection between study participation and legal consequences of the same. Another fear study participants have is about the research revealing private personal practices which a person may not want to discuss, such as a medical history which includes a sexually transmitted disease, substance abuse, psychiatric treatment, or an elective abortion. In the case of genomic studies on families, genetic screening may reveal that paternity is different from what had been supposed. For no particular reason, some people may find that if their private information becomes disclosed because of research participation, they may feel invaded and find the entire system distasteful. An Australian study investigating the violence, bullying, and harassment towards LGBTIQ people revealed that some of the participants, who were all members of the LGBTIQ community, had been subjected to levels of violence that would constitute a crime. However, the participants were reluctant to report their victimization to the police. This meant that the researchers were placed in a position where they could report a crime to the police. However, ethical practices meant that they were obliged to respect the privacy and wishes of the participants and so they could not do so.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27776887", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27776887", "title": "Robert Blanché", "text": "Robert Blanché\n\nRobert Blanché (1898–1975) was an associate professor of philosophy at the University of Toulouse. He wrote many books addressing the philosophy of mathematics.\n\nRobert Blanché died in 1975. Nine years before, in 1966, he published with Vrin: \"Structures intellectuelles\". Therein, he deals with the logical hexagon. Whereas the logical square or square of Apuleius represents four values: A,E,I,O , the logical hexagon represents six, that is to say, not only A,E,I,O but also two new values: Y and U. It is advisable to read the article: logical hexagon as well what concerns Indian logic.\n\nIn \"La Logique et son histoire d' Aristote à Russell\", published with Armand Colin in 1970, Robert Blanché, the author of Structures intellectuelles ( rin, 1966) mentions that Józef Maria Bocheński speaks of a sort of Indian logical triangle to be compared with the square of Aristotle (or square of Apuleius), in other words with the square of opposition.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38619533", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38619533", "title": "Ruwen Ogien", "text": "Ruwen Ogien\n\nRuwen Ogien (24 December, year unknown – 4 May 2017) was a contemporary French philosopher. He was a researcher (directeur de recherche) at the French National Centre for Scientific Research. His work focuses on moral philosophy and the philosophy of social science. He was the brother of Albert Ogien a sociologist.\n\nOgien was educated in Brussels, Tel Aviv, University of Cambridge, Paris, Columbia University and Montreal.\n\nTrained in social anthropology, he wrote extensively on poverty and immigration. His thesis in philosophy, under the direction of Jacques Bouveresse, was published under the title \"The Weakness of the Will\". His last areas of research are moral philosophy and the philosophy of social sciences. He was also interested in the philosophy of action, the notion of practical reason as well as practical irrationality. His other work was focused on the question of emotions, including hatred and shame.\n\nHe was working to develop an ethical theory he called \"minimal ethics.\" This is an ethical anti-paternalistic theory which would give reason to minimize the areas of intervention of what he calls, following John Stuart Mill, the \"moral police\". Minimal ethics arose initially in the form of three principles:\n\n\nSubsequently, Ogien tried to reduce it to one: \"Do not harm others, nothing more\" following this reasoning:\n\n\nFinally, what Ogien called \"minimal ethics\" is an ethic that excludes moral duties to oneself and positive paternalistic duties towards others. It tends to be reduced to one principle of not harming others. In accordance with this general conception of ethics, it supports the freedom to do what one wants from his own life as long as we do not harm others, which implies that the decriminalization of drug use, all forms of sexual relations between consenting adults, and active assistance to die for those who make the request. A special issue of the \"Journal of Theology and Philosophy\" was devoted to minimal ethics.\n\nOgien tried to relate ethics with similarly 'minimal' work on the moral development of children and the variability of moral systems in a book published in September 2011: The influence of the smell of croissants on human kindness and other matters of experimental moral philosophy.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "234796", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=234796", "title": "Sadness", "text": "Sadness\n\nSadness is an emotional pain associated with, or characterized by, feelings of disadvantage, loss, despair, grief, helplessness, disappointment and sorrow. An individual experiencing sadness may become quiet or lethargic, and withdraw themselves from others. An example of severe sadness is depression, a mood which can be brought on by major depressive disorder or persistent depressive disorder. Crying can be an indication of sadness.\n\nSadness is one of the \"six basic emotions\" described by Paul Ekman, along with happiness, anger, surprise, fear, and disgust.\n\nSadness is a common experience in childhood. Some families may have a (conscious or unconscious) rule that sadness is \"not allowed\", but Robin Skynner has suggested that this may cause problems, arguing that with sadness \"screened off\", people can become shallow and manic. Pediatrician T. Berry Brazelton suggests that acknowledging sadness can make it easier for families to address more serious emotional problems.\n\nSadness is part of the normal process of the child separating from an early symbiosis with the mother and becoming more independent. Every time a child separates a little more, he or she will have to cope with a small loss. If the mother cannot allow the minor distress involved, the child may never learn how to deal with sadness by themselves. Brazelton argues that too much cheering a child up devalues the emotion of sadness for them; and Selma Fraiberg suggests that it is important to respect a child's right to experience a loss fully and deeply.\n\nMargaret Mahler also saw the ability to feel sadness as an emotional achievement, as opposed for example to warding it off through restless hyperactivity. D. W. Winnicott similarly saw in sad crying the psychological root of valuable musical experiences in later life.\n\nAccording to the \"American Journal of Psychiatry\", sadness has been found to be associated with \"increases in bilateral activity within the vicinity of the middle and posterior temporal cortex, lateral cerebellum, cerebellar vermis, midbrain, putamen, and caudate.\" Jose V. Pardo has his M.D and Ph.D and leads a research program in cognitive neuroscience. Using positron emission tomography (PET) Pardo and his colleagues were able to provoke sadness among seven normal men and women by asking them to think about sad things. They observed increased brain activity in the bilateral inferior and orbitofrontal cortex. In a study that induced sadness in subjects by showing emotional film clips, the feeling was correlated with significant increases in regional brain activity, especially in the prefrontal cortex, in the region called Brodmann's area 9, and the thalamus. A significant increase in activity was also observed in the bilateral anterior temporal structures.\n\nPeople deal with sadness in different ways, and it is an important emotion because it helps to motivate people to deal with their situation. Some coping mechanisms include: getting social support and/or spending time with a pet, creating a list, or engaging in some activity to express sadness. Some individuals, when feeling sad, may exclude themselves from a social setting, so as to take the time to recover from the feeling.\n\nWhile being one of the moods people most want to shake, sadness can sometimes be perpetuated by the very coping strategies chosen, such as ruminating, \"drowning one's sorrows\", or permanently isolating oneself. As alternative ways of coping with sadness to the above, cognitive behavioral therapy suggests instead either challenging one's negative thoughts, or scheduling some positive event as a distraction.\n\nBeing attentive to, and patient with, one's sadness may also be a way for people to learn through solitude; while emotional support to help people stay with their sadness can be further helpful. Such an approach is fueled by the underlying belief that loss (when felt wholeheartedly) can lead to a new sense of aliveness, and to a re-engagement with the outside world.\n\nPupil size may be an indicator of sadness. A sad facial expression with small pupils is judged to be more intensely sad as the pupil size decreases. A person's own pupil size also mirrors this and becomes smaller when viewing sad faces with small pupils. No parallel effect exists when people look at neutral, happy or angry expressions. The greater degree to which a person's pupils mirror another predicts a person's greater score on empathy. However, in disorders such as autism and psychopathy facial expressions that represent sadness may be subtle, which may show a need for a more non-linguistic situation to affect their level of empathy.\n\nAccording to Swati Johar, sadness is an emotion \"identified by current speech dialogue and processing systems\". Root mean square (RMS) energy, inter-word silence and speaking rate were noted as useful measurements in distinguishing sadness from other emotions. It's communicated mostly by lowering the mean and variability of the fundamental frequency (\"f\"), besides being associated with lower vocal intensity, and with decreases in \"f\" over time. Johar argues that, \"when someone is sad, slow, low pitched speech with weak high audio frequency energy is produced\". Likewise, \"low energy state of sadness attributes to slow tempo, lower speech rate and mean pitch\".\n\nSadness is, as stated by Klaus Scherer, one of the \"best-recognized emotions in the [human] voice\", although it's \"generally somewhat lower than that of facial expression\". In a study by Scherer, it was found that in Western countries sadness had 79% of accuracy for facial recognition and 71% for vocal, while in Non-Western countries the results were of 74% and 58%, respectively.\n\nDuring the Renaissance, Edmund Spenser in \"The Faerie Queene\" endorsed sadness as a marker of spiritual commitment.\n\nIn \"The Lord of the Rings\", sadness is distinguished from unhappiness, to exemplify J. R. R. Tolkien's preference for a sad, but settled determination, as opposed to what he saw as the shallower temptations of either despair or hope.\n\nJulia Kristeva considered that \"a diversification of moods, variety in sadness, refinement in sorrow or mourning are the imprint of a humanity that is surely not triumphant but subtle, ready to fight and creative\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1932032", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1932032", "title": "Savikalpa", "text": "Savikalpa\n\nIn the \"Yoga Sutras of Patanjali\", savikalpa samadhi (Sanskrit: ), also called \"Samprajnata Samadhi\" and \"Sabija Samadhi\", is meditation with support of an object.\n\n\"Savikalpa samadhi\" is associated with deliberation, reflection, bliss, and I-am-ness. Deliberation and reflection form the basis of the various types of \"savikalpa\":\n\nAccording to Paramahansa Yogananda, in this state one lets go of the ego and becomes aware of Spirit beyond creation. The soul is then able to absorb the fire of Spirit-Wisdom that \"roasts\" or destroys the seeds of body-bound inclinations. The soul as the meditator, its state of meditation, and the Spirit as the object of meditation all become one. The separate wave of the soul meditating in the ocean of Spirit becomes merged with the Spirit. The soul does not lose its identity, but only expands into Spirit. In savikalpa samadhi the mind is conscious only of the Spirit within; it is not conscious of the exterior world. The body is in a trancelike state, but the consciousness is fully perceptive of its blissful experience within.\n\nAccording to Jianxin Li \"Samprajnata Samadhi\" may be compared to the Rupajhana of Buddhism. This interpretation may conflict with Gombrich and Wynne, according to whom the first and second \"jhana\" represent concentration, whereas the third and fourth \"jhana\" combine concentration with mindfulness. According to Eddie Crangle, the first \"jhana\" resembles Patanjali's \"Samprajnata Samadhi\", which both share the application of \"vitarka\" and \"vicara\". \n\nApollo 14 astronaut Edgar Mitchell, founder of the Institute of Noetic Sciences, has compared the experience of seeing the earth from space, also known as the overview effect, to savikalpa samadhi.\n\n"}
{"id": "601240", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=601240", "title": "Semantic theory of truth", "text": "Semantic theory of truth\n\nA semantic theory of truth is a theory of truth in the philosophy of language which holds that truth is a property of sentences.\n\nThe semantic conception of truth, which is related in different ways to both the correspondence and deflationary conceptions, is due to work published by Polish logician Alfred Tarski in the 1930s. Tarski, in \"On the Concept of Truth in Formal Languages\", attempted to formulate a new theory of truth in order to resolve the liar paradox. In the course of this he made several metamathematical discoveries, most notably Tarski's undefinability theorem using the same formal technique as Kurt Gödel used in his incompleteness theorems. Roughly, this states that a truth-predicate satisfying convention-T for the sentences of a given language cannot be defined \"within\" that language.\n\nTo formulate linguistic theories without semantic paradoxes such as the liar paradox, it is generally necessary to distinguish the language that one is talking about (the \"object language\") from the language that one is using to do the talking (the \"metalanguage\"). In the following, quoted text is use of the object language, while unquoted text is use of the metalanguage; a quoted sentence (such as \"\"P\") is always the metalanguage's \"name\" for a sentence, such that this name is simply the sentence \"P\" rendered in the object language. In this way, the metalanguage can be used to talk about the object language; Tarski's theory of truth (Alfred Tarski 1935) demanded that the object language be contained in the metalanguage.\nTarski's material adequacy condition, also known as Convention T, holds that any viable theory of truth must entail, for every sentence \"P\"\", a sentence of the following form (known as \"form (T)\"):\n\n(1) \"P\" is true if, and only if, P.\n\nFor example,\n\n(2) 'snow is white' is true if and only if snow is white.\n\nThese sentences (1 and 2, etc.) have come to be called the \"T-sentences\". The reason they look trivial is that the object language and the metalanguage are both English; here is an example where the object language is German and the metalanguage is English:\n\n(3) 'Schnee ist weiß' is true if and only if snow is white.\n\nIt is important to note that as Tarski originally formulated it, this theory applies only to formal languages. He gave a number of reasons for not extending his theory to natural languages, including the problem that there is no systematic way of deciding whether a given sentence of a natural language is well-formed, and that a natural language is \"closed\" (that is, it can describe the semantic characteristics of its own elements). But Tarski's approach was extended by Davidson into an approach to theories of \"meaning\" for natural languages, which involves treating \"truth\" as a primitive, rather than a defined, concept. (See truth-conditional semantics.)\n\nTarski developed the theory to give an inductive definition of truth as follows.\n\nFor a language \"L\" containing ¬ (\"not\"), ∧ (\"and\"), ∨ (\"or\"), ∀ (\"for all\"), and ∃ (\"there exists\"), Tarski's inductive definition of truth looks like this:\n\n\nThese explain how the truth conditions of \"complex\" sentences (built up from connectives and quantifiers) can be reduced to the truth conditions of their constituents. The simplest constituents are atomic sentences. A contemporary semantic definition of truth would define truth for the atomic sentences as follows:\n\n\nTarski himself defined truth for atomic sentences in a variant way that does not use any technical terms from semantics, such as the \"expressed by\" above. This is because he wanted to define these semantic terms in terms of truth, so it would be circular were he to use one of them in the definition of truth itself. Tarski's semantic conception of truth plays an important role in modern logic and also in much contemporary philosophy of language. It is a rather controversial matter whether Tarski's semantic theory should be counted either as a correspondence theory or as a deflationary theory.\n\nKripke's theory of truth (Saul Kripke 1975) is based on partial logic (a logic of partially defined truth predicates instead of Tarski's logic of totally defined truth predicates) with the strong Kleene evaluation scheme.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23862598", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23862598", "title": "Shattari", "text": "Shattari\n\nThe Shattariyya are members of a Sufi mystical order (tariqah) that originated in Persia in the fifteenth century C.E. and formally developed, completed and codified in India. Later secondary branches were taken to Hejaz and Indonesia. The word Shattar, which means \"lightning-quick\",\"speed\",\"rapidity\", or \"fast-goer\" indicates a system of spiritual practices that lead quickly to a state of \"completion\", however the name derives from its founder, Sheikh Sirajuddin Abdullah Shattar (d. 1406 CE).\n\nUnlike other Sufis the Shattariyya do not subscribe to the concept of fana (annihilation of the ego). \"With the sect of Shattaris, the \"Salik\" (seeker, aspirant) descends, of himself, in his own knowledge - there is no annihilation of self with them\".\n\nIdries Shah, writing in \"The Sufis\", states that the Shattari technique or \"the Rapidness\" originated with the Naqshbandi Sufi Order. Many of the later Shattaris, especially those of Medina, were initiated into the Naqshbandiyya, and among the Mazhariyya branch of the Naqshbandiyya the shaikhs were also authorised to initiate into the Shattariya and other turuq.\nTrue to its name shattari mode is the quickest. On entering shattari path the master (Pir) lifts the disciple (Mureed) from the base Maaqam (station) of Shariyat and promotes him to Tariqat in one go. Then depending upon capacity of each disciple, he is carefully guided and made to progress through advanced stages of Haqiqat and Maarifat.\n\nShattaris claim to hold the key to the secret meaning and mysteries of the Qur'an and possess the veiled knowledge of `Hurf-e-Muqattiyat’ (The secret alphabets). It is prohibited to disclose this knowledge publicly as this is `Baar-e-Amaanat’ (a trusted confidential deposit) of Sher-e-Khuda Maula Mushkil kusha Ali and Muhammad. Any breach of trust and misuse of this knowledge is the greatest of all sins (Gunaah-e-Kabira).\n\nThe spiritual lineage of this order is a chain of transmission (\"silsila\") said to pass from Muhammad through Bayazid Bastami (753-845 CE). The Shattari order is thus a branch of the Tayfuri Khanwada. It was reputedly founded by Sheikh Sirajuddin Abdullah Shattar (d. 1406 CE), great grandson (fifth generation) of Sheikh Shihabuddin Suhrawardi. (Founder of Suharwardiya Khaanwad). He was seventh lineage disciple to Bayazid Bustami and was honored with Khilafat (Spiritual Deputyhood) from all of the 14 Sufi Tayfuriya orders (Khanwaads or Gharaanaas). Shattar was deputized and given the honorific \"Shattar\" by his teacher Sheikh Muhammad Taifur in recognition of the austerities he faced in achieving this station (maqam).\n\nOriginating in Persia, the order and its teachings were later brought to India by Sheikh Abdullah Shattar. According to Idries Shah, Shattar made India his home in the fifteenth century . He used to judge disciples even with their eating habits and would extend his teachings only to those who did proper justice to the food. Dressed in royal robes he used to travel on streets beating drums and openly invite people to witness God in his presence, wandering from one monastery to another, and made known the method. His procedure was to approach the chief of a Sufi group and say, 'Teach me your method, share it with me. If you will not, I invite you to share mine.'\"\n\nKhilafat was further passed on to Abul Fatah Hidayatullah Sarmast (d 1538) (12th Shawwal 944 hijri) His shrine is located in a small village near Vaishali, Hajipur, around 20 kilometers from Patna, Bihar. India. This Village is situated on the banks of Ganga River. He was third son of Allauddin Kaazan Shattari. Famous Mughal Emperor Humayun was a dedicated follower of Abul Fatah Hidayatullah Sarmast and took his advice on worldly, political and spiritual issues.\n\nA future successor was Wajihuddin Alvi (d. 1018 AH / 1609 CE), also known with the title 'Haider Ali Saani’. He was born in Champaner, an ancient city of Eastern Gujarat. He latter moved to Ahmedabad where he received and latter imparted knowledge in Islamic studies. He became a prominent scholar of his times and became a Mufti. Royals of that time came to him for opinion on complex religious issues. Fatwa of Mohammed Ghaus Gwaliori was also referred to him by Mughal ruler of that time, Sultan Mehmud. He lived a simple life and always kept humble profile. He used to share whatever came to him with the poor and the needy. He was buried at Wajihuddin's Tomb, built by one of his follower, Syed Murtuza Khan Bukhari, in Khanpur, Ahmedabad. He was a great saint who wrote many books and founded an educational institution (\"madrasa\").\n\nOne of the order's distinguished masters was the 16th century Sufi, Shah Muhammad Ghawth (d. 1562/3 C.E.)(14th Ramadan 970 hijri). Hereditarily, he belonged to the noble family and was direct descendant of Imam Ali through the poet Attar. He was a son of Sayyid Hazir al-din (misspelled Khatir al-Din) Bayazid son of Classical Sufi poet Fariduddin Attar son of Sima Wasil son of Ahmad al-Sadiq son Najibuddin Taqiyuddin son of Nur Allah Abu Bakr al-Ajli son of Ismail son of Ja'far al-Sadiq son of Muhammad al-Baqir son of Zayn al-Abidin son of Husayn son of Ali ibn Abi Talib.\nGreatness and fame of the Shattari order reached new height during the era of Shah Sultan Haji Hameed Mohammed Ghouse/Gwauth Gwaliori Shattari . Shah Ghawth developed the Shattariyya more fully into a \"distinctive order\"; and also taught the Mughal Emperor Humayun, He wrote the book \"Jawahir-i khams,\" (The Five Jewels). The influence of the Shattari Order grew strong during Ghawth's leadership and spread through South Asia.\n\nRoyals like Babur, Humayun, and Akbar held him in very high esteem. He was a pioneer in adapting ancient Indian yogic practices and meditative techniques in folds of Sufism and was instrumental in promoting secular values in lives of royals and commoners around him. He authored many books such as Jawahar-e-Khamsa, Bahrul Hayat, Aurad-e-Ghosia, Risala-e-Mehraajiya, Jamaya, Kabid Makhajan, Kanjul Vahida, etc. His other scholarly works includes a hand written `Koran’ (translated in Persian language) which is over 400 years old and has been passed down through generations (Currently the same is in the custody of Khalifaa va Sajjada Sufi Saeed Ali Shah, Mumbai). He earned extraordinary spiritual revelations and meditative powers spending 13 years in solitude of forest (jungle of chinaar) and devoted all his life in quest of the ultimate truth, in deep meditation and continues remembrance of GOD.\nHis famous claim of experiencing the mystical journey `mehraaj’ thrice brought him trouble from extremist Islamic fronts to which he remained immune. Angered with this, Prominent and learned mufti of that time Shah Wajihuudin Gujrati (Ahmedabad) came to issue fatwah against this claim but after witnessing his spiritual station (maqaam), surrendered and become a worthy disciple of Mohammed Ghouse Gwaliori. Ghawth, an unparallaled mystic philosopher and a supremely accomplished music maestro, became the tutor of the Mughal emperor Akbar's favorite and legendary musician, Tansen as well. Although Tansen was a Hindu by birth, Shah Ghawth adopted him as an orphan and tutored him in both Sufism and music, appointing him as one of the Khalifa (spiritual deputy) of Mohammed Ghouse. Tansen was buried in Ghawth's tomb complex.\n\nGhouse's magnificent tomb in Gwalior is a well-known tourist attraction, regarded as an excellent example of Mughal Architecture, dating from c.1565,is the most famous Sufi monument in Gwalior, renowned for its beautiful perforated stone screen (jalis), which forms around the verandah surrounding the tomb’s central chamber. Each Jali is designed in unique beautiful pattern. The tomb is square stone building with a large central dome, which was originally covered with blue tiles, and hexagonal corner towers crowned by chhatris(Pavilions).\n\nDue to some unforeseen reasons, the Maqbara was closed from 1947 to 1965. Sayyed Sufi Mohammed Shah Husaini Qadri Shattari Hashmi (Father of present Sajjadanashin - Sufi Saeed Ali Shah) got spiritual orders from Mohammed Ghouse to reopen the Maqbara. In 1965, he along with some of his beloved Khalifa Sufi Hidayatullah Shah and some followers travelled to Gwalior and with the help of Shah Saheb ( Khadim ) reopened, cleaned the Maqbara and started the tradition of annual Urs (14th Ramazan). On this occasion, a White Cotton cloth (called Lattha in local languages) on which Sandalwood paste is applied by all the followers, also known as \"Gillaf\" is offered. This tradition has been going on for last many years by then Sufi Hidayatullah Shah and now his Khalifa Sufi Saeed Ali Shah.\n\nIn 1972, a damaged marble grill of Taveez was renovated by Sufi Hidaytullah Shah along with his Khalifa's(Sufi Saeed Ali Shah & Sufi Shafi Ali Shah). The stones & the skilled labours were called in from Agra & Jaipur. This work went on for 6 months with the approval from ASI officer Mr. Dixit.\n\nSufi Mohammed Saeed Ali Shah was Born on 5 May 1942 in Bombay, he is the son of Mohammed Shah Husaini Kadri Shattari. (A renowned Shattari Saint – discussed in above passages). He graduated in science (B. Sc) from Jai Hind College in 1965 with distinction. He was extremely hard working since childhood. His hard work and honesty rewarded him with extremely successful career. He got married in 1969. He became murid of Sufi Hidayatullah Shah Husiani in 1969 at Gwalior inside the dargah of Mohammed Ghouse Gwaliori. He was blessed with Khilafat in 1975 and was crowned as Sajjada nashin in 1981. He resigned from the job and devoted all his energies towards the welfare of Shattari Silsila.\n\nHe remained a torch bearer of Shattari lineage ever since the responsibility of Khilafat and Sajjadagi was bestowed upon him by Sufi Hidayatullah Kadri Shattari who loved him more than his own children. For more than 40 years he gave selfless service and has completely offered his being to the cause of Shattari Silsila. His contribution to this Silsila has been all round including financial, spiritual, ethical and social support. Sufi Gafoor Shah Dargah trust was formed by him in 1988 and introduced Sufi Shattari Jamaat in 2003. He left for heavenly abode in the year 2017 and his resting place has been built in Pune - India.\n\nThis primary Shattari Lineage is presently headed and guided by Khalifa va Sajjada Sufi Raees Ali Shah who also happens to be the 18th Khalifa in line (if counted from Mohammed Ghouse). He is grandson of Sufi Hidayatullah Husaini and Khalifa of Sufi Mohammed Saeed Ali Shah also known with the title`Sufi Saheb’ by many of his followers.\n\nIn the late sixteenth/early seventeenth century C.E.the secondary branch of Shattariyya was introduced to Medina by Sibghatallah ibn Ryuhallah al-Sindi al-Barwaji (d.1606 C.E.), a Naqshbandi shaykh. His disciple Abu'l-Mawahib al-Shinnawi (d. 1619) continued the order there. The Shattaris went on to play an important role in Medina through the seventeenth century C.E. under Ahmad al-Qushashi, al Shinnawi's successor, and then Ibrahim Kurani (d. 1689 C.E.) who was also initiated into other orders including the Naqshbandiyya, Qadiriyya and Chishtiyya. Kurani's disciple Abd al Ra'uf Singkel was authorised by him to introduce the Shattariyya to Indonesia. The Shattariyya became popular in Aceh and Jawa, particularly in Pamijahan and Cirebon (where it became closely associated with the court).\n\nIbrahim Kurani's son, Muhammad Abu'l Tahir Kurani (d.1733 C.E.) inherited his father's position as head of the Medina Shattariyya as well as the role of teacher in the Prophet's mosque and Shafi'i mufti in the city. Among his students was the great Indian Naqshbandi reformer Shah Waliullah Dihlawi (d.1763 C.E.). Abu'l Tahir initiated Shah Waliullah into the Naqshbandiyya in Medina. He also initiated him into the Shadhiliyya, Shattariyya, Suhrawardiyya and Kubrawiyya.\n\nThe Shattariyya subscribed to six fundamental principles:\n\n\"(i)\" One should not believe in self-negation but adhere to self-affirmation.\n\n\"(ii)\" Contemplation is a waste of time.\n\n\"(iii)\" Self-effacement is a wrong idea: one must say nothing except \"I am I.\" Unity is to understand One, see One, say One and to hear One. A Sufi of this order must say \"I am one\" and \"There is no partner with me.\"\n\n\"(iv)\" There is no need to oppose to the ego (\"nafs\") or of \"mujaheda\" (struggle, participation in \"jihad\" with oneself).\n\n\"(v)\" There is no such state as annihilation (\"fana\") since this would require two personalities, one wishing for annihilation and the other in whom annihilation takes place, which is dualism and not unity.\n\n\"(vi)\" One should not abstain from eating certain foods but instead should consider one's ego, its attributes and actions as identical with those of the Universal Ego. The animal soul is not an obstacle for reaching God.\n\nThe Shattariyya held to the principle of \"wahdat al-wujud\" (Unity of Existence) expounded by Ibn Arabi. Abu'l Mawahib al Shinnawi was an outspoken adherent of this doctrine. And Shinnawi's successor, Ahmad al-Qushashi was described by the contemporary Damascene scholar Muhammad Amin al Muhibbi as \"The Imam of those who expound the unity of existence\".\n\n`Irfan’ or secret wisdom of Shattari order is transmitted `Sina ba Sina’ heart to heart from the `pir’ (master) to deserving `Mureeds’ (disciples). Genuine Shattaris are the custodians of this esoteric and mystical treasure including `Zaat e Mohammedi’ `Hurf e Muqateat’ `Kalima’ and genuine hidden understanding to Quran. Due to matured and controversial nature of the matter it is disclosed to selective few people of understanding who have the appetite and the capacity to digest this advanced philosophy of truth. This knowledge is forbidden to the masses and novice by Ali Maula Mushkil Kusha.\n\nSome aspects of Shattari teaching sought to utilize parts of Nath Yoga and other forms of yogic mystical practice to give rise to highly sophiscated, distinct and intense 'mystical' Sufi method of India (a trait shared by Naqshbandi, Sarwar Qadiri, Suhrawardi, Shadhlli and Chisti orders and many other which were based in Indian ) as comparaed to usual and less intense 'jurist' Sufi methods or orders of Iraq, Arabia, Turkey and northern Africa. Sheikh Baha' al-Din Shattari (d. 1515 C.E.) incorporated Indian spiritual practices into his \"Risala-i Shattariyya\" (The Shattari Treatise). Later \"The Pool of Nectar\" (traced by Carl Ernst to the Hindu \"Amrtakunda\"), was translated into Persian by Muhammad Ghawth. This translation was a systematic account of yogic mantras and visualization practices, assimilated and incorporated into the conceptual structure of Sufi tradition, and included an account of the chakras together with the practices required to activate them, with Sufi wazifas substituted for the traditional yogic mantras.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29457137", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29457137", "title": "Stars proposed in religion", "text": "Stars proposed in religion\n\nStars proposed in religion are a subset of the relationship between religion and astronomy.\n\nThese may include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6898399", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6898399", "title": "Svādhyāya", "text": "Svādhyāya\n\nSvādhyāya is a compound Sanskrit word composed of svā (स्वा) + adhyāya (अध्याय). Adhyāya means \"a lesson, lecture, chapter; reading\". Svā means \"own, one's own, self, the human soul\". Therefore, Svādhyāya literally means \"one's own reading, lesson\".\n\nSvādhyāya is also a compound Sanskrit word composed of svā (स्वा) + dhyāya (ध्याय). Dhyāya means \"meditating on\". The root of Adhyāya and Dhyāya is “Dhyai” (ध्यै) which means “meditate, contemplate, think of”. The term Svādhyāya therefore, also connotes “contemplation, meditation, reflection of one self”, or simply “to study one’s own self”.\n\nThe term \"Svadhyaya\" has other meanings. In the \"Smritis\", it refers to the historical practice of self-reciting Vedas to ensure it is memorized and faithfully transmitted, without writing, by the word of mouth, to the next generation. In various schools of Hinduism, particularly \"Yoga\", \"Svadhyaya\" is also a \"niyama\", a virtuous behavior. As a virtue, it means \"study of self\", \"self-reflection\", \"introspection, observation of self\".\n\nTaittiriya Upanishad’s hymn 1.9.1 emphasizes the central importance of \"Svadhyaya\" in one’s pursuit of Reality (Ṛta), Truth (Satya), Self-restraint (Damah), Perseverance (Tapas), Tranquility and Inner Peace (Samas), Relationships with others, family, guests (Praja, Prajana, Manush, Atithi) and all Rituals (Agnaya, Agnihotram).\n\nTaittiriya Upanishad, however, adds in verse 1.9.1, that along with the virtue of ' process of learning, one must teach and share (\"pravacana\") what one learns. This is expressed by the phrase \"'\", translated as \"and learning and teaching\" by Gambhīrānanda\n\nIn verse 1.11.1, the final chapter in the education of a student, the Taittiriya Upanishad reminds,\nOne of the earliest mention of Svādhyāya is found in Taittiriya Aranyaka 2.15: \"\" (\"svādhyāya must be practiced\"). Śatpath Brāhmana also repeats it. Chandogya Upanishad verse 4.16.1-2 recommends both silent (\"mānas\") and vocal (\"vāchika\") types of svādhyāya.\n\nPatanjali's \"Yogasutra\", in verse II.44, recommends \"Svadhyaya\" as follows\n\nVishnu Smriti's verse 22.92, states that \"human body is cleansed by water, the mind is cleansed by truth, the soul by self-study and meditation, while understanding is cleansed by knowledge\".\n\nVasistha Dharmasastra verses 27.1 through 27.7 states that \"Svadhyaya\" helps an individual understand and overcome his past. Apastamba Dharmasutra 1.4.12.1 states \"Svadhyaya\" is a form of \"Tapas\". This view is shared by Baudhayana Dharmasastra in verses 4.1.29 to 4.1.30, which adds that ‘‘svadhyaya is a means of getting past one’s past mistakes and any guilt”. Baudhayana Dharmasastra describes ‘‘Svadhyaya’’, in verse 2.6.11, as the path to Brahman (Highest Reality, Universal Spirit, Eternal Self).\n\nAs a tool for memorization, ' had a unique meaning for Vedic scholars as the principal tool for the oral preservation of the Vedas in their original form for millennia. When used as a formal part of scriptural study, ' involves repeated recitations of scripture for purposes of mastering the mantras with their accurate pronunciation.\n\nThe Vedas had not been committed to writing in ancient times. Almost all printed editions depend on the late manuscripts that are hardly older than 500 years, not on the still-extant and superior oral tradition. Monier Monier-Williams defines \"śruti\" as \"sacred knowledge orally transmitted by the from generation to generations, the Veda\". Michael Witzel explains this oral tradition as follows:\nThe Vedic texts were orally composed and transmitted, without the use of script, in an unbroken line of transmission from teacher to student that was formalized early on. This ensured an impeccable textual transmission superior to the classical texts of other cultures; it is, in fact, something like a \"tape-recording\"... Not just the actual words, but even the long-lost musical (tonal) accent (as in old Greek or in Japanese) has been preserved up to the present.\"\nThe commentator Sāyana discusses this term in the introduction of his commentary on the ', in which he says that ' enables Vedic rituals (yājnika karmakānda) to take place.\n\nMadhva, the dualistic Vaishnava philosopher, defined philosophy as the three-stage process of understanding ('), reflection ('), and application ('), expressing itself in two forms: study (') and teaching (\"). Of these two, Madhva considered teaching to be the highest aspect of discipline leading to . Mādhavāchārya's views on svādhyāya are to be found in chapter 15 of Sarva-Darśana-Sangraha (cf. references).\n\nThe \"Taittirīya Upanishad\", which belongs to the \"Yajur Veda\", is still popular among those who learn Vedic chanting. Recitation of mantras (Japa) is an integral part of Bhakti Yoga, and in this tradition of Hinduism, it is sometimes called \"Japa Yoga\".\n\nThere are certain days on which ' were prohibited, these were called ', after which \"\" must be resumed on the following day ; therefore the day of resumption is also called .\n\nSvādhyāya is one of the three key elements in the practice of yoga as defined in the \"Yoga Sutras of Patanjali\", appearing in the opening verse of Book two on spiritual practice and elaborated upon in two other verses. Patanjali mentions a second time as one of the five recommended observances (\"niyamas\"), along with purity, contentment, austerity, and self-surrender. The five \"niyamas\", together with the five abstentions (\"yamas\"), have been described as \"'the ten commandments' of the .\"\n\nThe practice of Svadhyaya as a Niyama is perfected in many forms. One form of Svadhyaya is mantra meditation, where certain sound constructs pregnant with meaning are recited, anchoring the mind to one thought. This practice helps draw the mind away from outward-going tendencies, silencing the crowding of thoughts, and ultimately towards inward feeling of resonance. It can alternately be any music, sermon, chant, inspirational book that absorbs the person to a state of absorption, trance, unifying oneness.\n\nSvadhyaya is practiced as a self-reflection process, where one silently meditates, in Asana, on one’s own behaviors, motivations and plans. Svadhyaya is, in a sense, for one’s spirit and mind a process equivalent to watching one’s body in a non-distorting mirror. This self-study, in Yoga, is not merely contemplation of one’s own motives and behaviors, but also of one’s circumstances and the environment one is in, assessing where one is in one’s life, what is one’s life direction, if and how desirable changes may lead to a more fulfilling Self.\n\n"}
{"id": "32518176", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32518176", "title": "Taal (instrument)", "text": "Taal (instrument)\n\nThe taal (; , Gini ), manjira (also spelled manjīrā or manjeera), jalra, or gini is a pair of clash cymbals, which make high-pitched percussion sounds. In its simplest form, it consists of a pair of small hand cymbals. The word taal comes from the Sanskrit word \"Tālà\", literally means a clap. It is a part of Indian music and culture, used in various traditional customs e.g. Bihu music, Harinaam etc.It is a type of Ghana vadya. \n\nIn Hindu religious contexts it is known as karatalas (, IAST: ), pronounced \"karataala\", (literally beat-\"tala\" hand -kara), typically used to accompany devotional music such as bhajan and kirtan. They are commonly used by Hare Krishna devotees when performing harinam, but are ubiquitous to all Hindu devotional music.\n\nThe clash cymbal, taal is made of bell metals i.e. bronze, brass, copper, zinc etc. Each cymbal is connected with a cord which passes through hole in its center. The pitch of different types of taal vary according to their size, weight and the materials used. A player can also adjust the timbre by varying the point of contact while playing.\n\nManjiras are usually made of bronze, brass, copper, or zinc. The name manjira or khartal can also refer to a similar instrument made of a wooden frame with rows of cymbals inside.\n\nThere are many types of Taal, categorised by size, weight and appearance. \n\nManjiras are commonly played in folk and devotional music. They are played in various religious events and ceremonies in India and especially in bhajans. Manjiras are ancient musical instruments. Manjiras can be seen in many ancient temple pictures.\n\nManjiras have a significant importance in Gujarati and Marathi folk music. In Maharashtra they are known as Taal (टाळ). Initially Manjiras were played in aarti. In Gujarat and Maharashtra, manjiras hold great importance and are played in bhajan, santvani and dayro.\n\n\nGadam\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29889514", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29889514", "title": "The Bible and violence", "text": "The Bible and violence\n\nThe Hebrew Bible and the New Testament contain many passages outlining approaches to, and descriptions of, violent activities, centering on the ancient nation of Israel and their involvement with Gentile nations. They also provide civil guidelines on the subject of violent activity as it pertains to individuals within the nation, distinguishing individualistic from nationalistic actions.\n\nThese texts contain narratives, poetry, and instruction describing, commanding, or condemning violent actions by God, individuals, groups, and governments. These actions include war, human and animal sacrifice, murder, rape, stoning, sexism, slavery, criminal punishment, and violent language. The texts have a history of interpretation within the Abrahamic religions and Western culture that includes justification for acts of violence as well as structural violence, and have also been used in opposition to violence.\n\n\"Hamas\", meaning violence or wrong, is the Hebrew Bible's primary term for violence and is first used in Genesis 6:11: \"the earth was corrupt in God's sight, and the earth was filled with \"violence\" (hamas).\" It occurs sixty times in the Hebrew Bible, is almost always used to identify physical violence (Gen.49:5; Judges 9:24), and is used to describe human, not divine, violence. \"Sometimes the word refers to extreme wickedness (Isaiah 53:8; 59:6) where physical violence may or may not be [involved].\" As a result, \"hamas\" may also refer to verbal, or even ethical violence. \"The term Hamas sometimes appears as a cry to God in the face of injustice (Jer. 6:7).\" Exodus 23:1 and Deut. 19:16 characterize a false witness as ʿēd ḥāmas (a “violent witness”). The notion that a false witness threatens life and well-being appears in fuller form in the Psalter.\" \nWithin the Pentateuch the terms \"gazal\" (rob) and \"asaq\" (oppress) are frequently used in combination to describe the human violence of taking/robbing/plundering as oppression of the poor which may or may not include physical, verbal or other types of harm. They are also used both separately and in combination throughout the remainder of the Hebrew Bible describing robbing the poor (Isaiah 3:14, 10:2; Jeremiah 22:3; Micah 2:2, 3:2; Malachi 1:3), withholding the wages of a hired person (cf. Deuteronomy 24:14), political oppression (Hosea 12:7), charging oppressive interest (Ezekiel 22:12), and oppressing the outsider in their midst (Ezekiel 22:7) as acts of violence.\n\n\"The Hebrew \"verb\" ḥāram connotes [complete annihilation] (New Revised Standard Version, “utterly destroy”; Deut. 7:2); the noun that derives from it ḥērem is sometimes translated as \"the ban\" and denotes the separation, exclusion and dedication of persons or objects to God which may be set apart for destruction (Deuteronomy 7:26; Leviticus 27:28-29). Historian Susan Niditch says \"the root h-r-m links together several biblical non-war and war usages of the term ... under the heading of \"sacrifice\".\" Early use of the term indicates the Israelites were not allowed to touch, possess, or redeem these \"devoted things\". However, later use of the term, such as in Numbers 18:14-17 and Deuteronomy 7, indicates items and first born children set aside as \"herem\" were to be redeemed by the Priests. Hebrew scholar Baruch A. Levine says Exodus 33:5-16 is an example of early Hebrew ideology while noting Deut.7:1-11 contains much the same ideology with the addition of the ban (see also Exodus 20:19,20). Levine concludes this is one of several indications, including extra-biblical evidence, that \"herem\" was a later addition to Hebrew thought. Levine says this is indicative that Israel was still, as late as Deuteronomy, making ideological adjustments to having imported the foreign practice of \"herem\" from its source in the surrounding Near Eastern nations.\"\n\nOver half the occurrences of the verb and noun for the root \"ḥ-r-m\" are concerned with the destruction of nations in war, but other terms associated with what Old Testament scholar Eric Siebert describes as \"divine violence\" may or may not include war. Siebert says divine violence is \"violence God is said to have perpetrated, caused, or sanctioned.\" Specifically, this includes (1) violence God commits without using human agents (e.g., sending down fire on Sodom and Gomorrah); (2) violence God commissions, typically unbeknownst to those being commissioned (e.g., using Babylon to punish Judah for their sins); and (3) violence God commands directly (e.g., ordering Israelites to wipe out Canaanites).\" For example, concerning those who worship idols, Deuteronomy 7:16 uses \"akal\" (\"consume\") when saying \"You must \"destroy\" (consume) all the peoples the Lord your God gives over to you…\". Deuteronomy 7:24, on the other hand, uses \"abad\" when saying \"you shall make their name \"perish\" from under heaven…\" while Deuteronomy 20:10-18 says \"…you shall not leave alive anything that breathes. But you shall utterly destroy (\"ha-harem taharimem\") them, the Hittite and the Amorite, the Canaanite and the Perizzite, the Hivite and the Jebusite, as the Lord your God has commanded you…\". \"Amos 1:3–2:3 uses akal to indict Israel’s neighbors for various acts of cruelty during war (e.g., the Ammonites “ripped open pregnant women in Gilead in order to enlarge their territory”; 1:13) and uses those war crimes of surrounding peoples to draw a parallel with Israel’s mistreatment of the poor, thus elevating economic injustice to the level of war crimes.\" (2:6–8).\n\nOther terms are: \"ṣamat\" (put an end to, exterminate...annihilate); \"shamad\" (destroy, exterminate); \"nakah\" (to strike fatally, kill, in manslaughter, murder...as retaliation ...in warfare, conquest...combat...attack, rout); \"aqar\" (pluck up, often in the violent sense); \"qatsah\" (to cut off, in a destructive sense); \"shabat\" (with zeker can refer to one's \"memory\" being \"blotted out\" but in another idiom it means to \"be blotted out...from...[the] earth\" to \"be exterminated, be destroyed, perish\"; and \"kalah\" (kalah in Qal can mean \"be finished, be destroyed).\n\nWhen Adam and Eve disobey God, he curses them and banishes them from the Garden of Eden (Genesis 3). In Genesis 4:1-18 Cain, the first born man, murders his brother Abel. God curses Cain for this, and also grants him protection from danger.\n\nIn the Genesis flood narrative (Genesis 6-9), God sees that \"wickedness of man was great\" and decides to exterminate mankind and all animals, saving only Noah and those he brought with him on the Ark. After the Flood, God promises to never again destroy all life by a flood.\n\nIn Genesis 18-19 God resolves to destroy the cities Sodom and Gomorrah, \"because their sin is very grievous\". God promises Abraham that he will spare Sodom if as few as 10 righteous people can be found there. The cities are destroyed, but angels save Abraham's nephew Lot and most of his family from the destruction.\nGod tests Abraham by demanding that he sacrifice Isaac, his son (Genesis 22). As Abraham is about to lay the knife upon his son, God restrains him, promising him numberless descendants.\n\nIsaac's son Jacob conspires to gain his elder brother Esau's birthright, but the brothers ultimately reconcile (Genesis 25-33). In Genesis 32:22-32, Jacob meets and wrestles with someone, a man, angel or God, who blesses him and gives him the name Israel.\n\nJoseph (Genesis 37-50), Jacob's favorite son, is sold into slavery in Egypt by his jealous brothers. Joseph prospers after hardship, with God's guidance, and saves his family from starvation.\n\nA new pharaoh (Exodus 1) sees that the Israelites in Egypt have become many and fears they might aid Egypt's enemies. The Egyptians make the Israelites \"serve with rigour\" and their lives become \"bitter with hard service\". Pharaoh orders two Hebrew midwives, Shiphrah and Puah, to kill the newborn sons of Hebrew women, but they disobey him. Pharaoh then orders his people to drown these children.\n\nMoses, a Hebrew raised by Pharaoh's daughter, one day encounters an Egyptian beating a Hebrew. He slays the Egyptian and flees Egypt. God hears the plight of the Israelites and sends Moses back to Egypt to bring them out of that land to Canaan. At one point during the journey back, God intends to kill Moses, but he is saved by his wife Zipporah (Exodus 2-4).\n\nMoses asks Pharaoh to release the Israelites, but Pharaoh responds by demanding more work from them. Moses repeats his request several times as the Plagues of Egypt afflict the Egyptians, but God makes Pharaoh refuse until the tenth plague, when God kills all firstborn people and cattle in Egypt, apart from those of the Israelites, who are . The Israelites are allowed to leave, but God again changes Pharaoh's mind, and an army is sent after them. God saves them from the army by drowning it in the Red Sea.\n\nAt Mount Sinai, God gives the Israelites the Ten Commandments and the Covenant Code (Exodus 20-23). These laws include thou shalt not kill, eye for an eye and laws about slavery and other things. Capital punishment is prescribed for some crimes. Animal sacrifice in the form of burnt offerings is mentioned, and it is prescribed that an ox that kills a person is to be stoned. The Code states that \"And a stranger shalt thou not wrong, neither shalt thou oppress him; for ye were strangers in the land of Egypt.\" and \"Ye shall not afflict any widow, or fatherless child.\" The Israelites promise to follow these laws (Exodus 24:3).\n\nThe Israelites break their promise by worshiping the Golden Calf. God is angered by this and intends to \"consume them\", but Moses persuades him not to do so. Moses is also angered, and he breaks two stone tablets with God's writing. On Moses' command, the Levites kill about three thousand people (Exodus 32).\n\nGod has Moses make new stone tablets, and gives Moses the Ritual Decalogue, which states in part \"Take heed to thyself, lest thou make a covenant with the inhabitants of the land whither thou goest, lest they be for a snare in the midst of thee. But ye shall break down their altars, and dash in pieces their pillars, and ye shall cut down their Asherim\" (Exodus 34).\n\nThe Book of Leviticus sets out detailed rules for animal sacrifice. The Holiness code, Leviticus 17-26, sets out a list of prohibitions, and the punishments for breaking them. Punishments include execution, sometimes by stoning or burning.\n\nGod orders Moses to count \"all that are able to go forth to war in Israel\" (Numbers 1). God hears the people \"speaking evil\" and punishes them with fire. Moses prays, and the fire abates. God is again angered and sends \"a great plague\" (Numbers 11). God hears Miriam and Aaron speak against Moses, and punishes Miriam with leprosy. Moses asks God to heal her which he does (Numbers 12).\n\nThe Israelites reach the border of Canaan, but due to reports from spies they refuse to enter, and wish to return to Egypt. God is angered, and tells Moses \"I will smite them with the pestilence, and destroy them, and will make of thee a nation greater and mightier than they.\" Moses persuades him not to, but God declares that the Israelites will now wander the wilderness for forty years before they can enter Canaan. They are attacked by Amalekites and Canaanites (Numbers 13-14). In Numbers 15, a man is found working on the Sabbath. God orders him to be killed and he is stoned.\n\nKorah and a group of men rebel against Moses and Aaron. God destroys them (Numbers 16). The Isralites \"murmur\" about this, and God punishes them with a plague (Numbers 16). At Hormah, a Canaanite king fights the Israelites, and the Israelites promise God that if he gives them victory over this people, they will destroy their cities. He does and they do. The Israelites speak against God and Moses, and God sends venomous snakes that kill many of them. Moses prays for the people, and God helps them (Numbers 21).\n\nThe Israelites conquer the cities of Sihon, king of the Amorites, and they \"smote him, and his sons, and all his people, until there was none left him remaining; and they possessed his land.\" (Numbers 21). When the diviner Balaam beats his donkey, it speaks. Balaam later prophesise on the future of the Israelite's enemies (Numbers 22-24).\n\nSome Israelites commit harlotry with women in Moab, and sacrifice to their gods. God is angered, orders executions and sends a plague, but \"the main guilt is Midian's and on Midian fell the vengeance\" (Numbers 25 and 31).\n\nGod orders Moses to \"Harass the Midianites, and smite them\", and to again count \"all that are able to go forth to war in Israel\" (Numbers 25-26). The Isralites war against Midian, and \"slew every male\". They take captive the women and children, and take all cattle, flocks and goods as loot, and burn all cities and camps. When they return to Moses, he is angered, and commands \"Now therefore kill every male among the little ones, and kill every woman that hath known man by lying with him. But all the women children, that have not known man by lying with him, keep alive for yourselves\" (Numbers 31).\n\nGod tells Moses \"Speak unto the children of Israel, and say unto them: When ye pass over the Jordan into the land of Canaan, then ye shall drive out all the inhabitants of the land from before you, and destroy all their figured stones, and destroy all their molten images, and demolish all their high places. And ye shall drive out the inhabitants of the land, and dwell therein; for unto you have I given the land to possess it.\" and \"But if ye will not drive out the inhabitants of the land from before you, then shall those that ye let remain of them be as thorns in your eyes, and as pricks in your sides, and they shall harass you in the land wherein ye dwell. And it shall come to pass, that as I thought to do unto them, so will I do unto you\" (Numbers 33).\n\nDeuteronomy begins with a review of previous stories, including a battle between the Israelites and the Amorites (Deuteronomy 1:41-44), and the destruction of Rephaim by the Ammonites with Yahweh's help (2:21), along with similar other displacements. Deuteronomy 2:31-37 records the complete extermination of the people ruled by Sihon king of Heshbon. Similar treatment, at Yahweh's command, was given to the people under Og king of Bashan. Moses also recounts how God destroyed the followers of Baal-Peor, and threatens to destroy the Israelites if they return to idolatry. Similar threats of destruction for disobedience, or idolatry more specifically, can be found in Deuteronomy 6, 8, 11. On the other hand, God promises that if his people obey him he will give them victory in fighting their enemies in Deuteronomy 6, 11.\n\nDeuteronomy provides legislation to protect perpetrators of unintentional homicide from revenge killings (4, 19). The Ten Commandments prohibit murder (5:17). Deuteronomy 7 orders the complete annihilation of the indigenous inhabitants of Canaan, and God promises in exchange for obedience to bring diseases on the enemies of Israel. Chapter 9 records an incident in which Yahweh was angry and intended to destroy the Israelites, but was dissuaded by Moses. Deuteronomy 12 records Yahweh's displeasure at the practice of burning sons and daughters as offerings to deities. Deuteronomy 13 insists that those who advocate the worship of other deities must be killed, and that a town that worships other deities must be entirely exterminated, including its livestock. Deuteronomy 14 forbids self-mutilation. Deuteronomy 17 punishes anyone who worships any deity or feature of the natural world with stoning to death, and likewise imposes the death penalty on anyone who disobeys the judicial decision of a priest.\n\nDeuteronomy 19 imposes the death penalty for premeditated murder, establishes cities of refuge, and also imposes the \"lex talionis\": \"life for life, eye for eye, tooth for tooth, hand for hand, foot for foot\" limiting vengeance (verse 21, NRSV). Deuteronomy 20 regulates warfare, allowing for various exemptions from military service, and mandating that a city which Israel fights (outside of Canaan) should have all of its males slaughtered, with women taken as spoils of war. The Canaanites, on the other hand, are to be completely exterminated (20) exempting only the fruit trees. Deuteronomy 21 commands the use of sacrifices to atone for blood in cases where a murderer cannot be identified, and mandates a month-long period of mourning before an Israelite warrior can have sexual relations with a female captive. It also mandates the stoning to death of rebellious children. Deuteronomy 22 orders the killing of women who cannot prove that they were virgins on their wedding night, and of both the man and woman when a man sleeps with another man's wife. It also mandates the death penalty for a man who has sexual relations with a betrothed virgin, and of the virgin if she does not cry out for help when raped.\n\nDeuteronomy 24 imposes the death penalty for the kidnapping of a fellow Israelite, and forbids putting parents to death for crimes committed by their children, and vice versa. Deuteronomy 25 allows for judges to have people punished in legal disputes by flogging, but limits the number of strikes to forty. \"If men get into a fight with one another, and the wife of one intervenes to rescue her husband from the grip of his opponent by reaching out and seizing his genitals, you shall cut off her hand; show no pity\" (25:11-12). This chapter also urges the extermination of the Amalekites (verses 17-19). Deuteronomy 28 contains blessing and curses: blessing, including the defeat of Israel's enemies, if Israel obeys; and curses if Israel disobeys. These curses include disease, famine, defeat and death in warfare, insanity, abuse and robbery, enslavement, and cannibalism due to extreme hunger. Similar threats appear in the following chapter (29) and in Deuteronomy 32.\n\nGod commands Joshua to take possession of Canaan (Joshua 1). The Jericho-woman Rahab aids two Israelite spies, and she and her family are promised to be spared in the coming conquest. The Israelites enter Canaan, carrying with them the Ark of the Covenant. Joshua conquers the city of Jericho. The city is burned, and apart from Rahab´s family, every person, ox, sheep and donkey is killed (Joshua 6). Joshua attempts to capture the city of Ai, but fails (Joshua 7). A second attempt, advised by God, succeeds. The city is set on fire and all the inhabitants are killed (Joshua 8).\n\nSeveral kings ally together to fight the Israelites. The people of Gibeon, learning of the city's destruction, tricks the Israelites into a peace-treaty. When Joshua learns of the trickery, he curses the Gibeonites (Joshua 9). When the king of Jerusalem hears of the treaty, he and several other kings attack Gibeon, who then call on Joshua for help. God attacks Joshua's enemies with hailstones, the Israelites are victorious, and the enemy kings are captured. Joshua goes on to conquer more cities but never completes the conquest (Joshua 10).\n\nMore kings gather to fight the Israelites. The Israelites defeat and kill them all. Joshua 11 commands the hamstringing of horses.\n\nJoshua finishes most of the conquest of Canaan, with the exception of Gibeon and possibly some Canaanites and Amelakites: \"For it was of the LORD to harden their hearts, to come against Israel in battle, that they might be utterly destroyed, that they might have no favour, but that they might be destroyed, as the LORD commanded Moses.\" \"And the land had rest from war\" (Joshua 11).\n\nThe tribe of Manasseh is given cities with Canaanites they can´t drive out, but Joshua tells them that they will be able to (Joshua 17).\n\nIn Joshua 20, God tells Joshua to assign Cities of Refuge, so that \"the manslayer that killeth any person through error and unawares may flee thither; and they shall be unto you for a refuge from the avenger of blood.\"\n\nThe Book of Judges contains a number of violent incidents. There is a graphic description of the assassination of the Moabite King Eglon, who defecates while rolls of his fat suck in the blade used to kill him (Judges 3:22). Later on, Jael hammers a tent peg into an enemy commander's head while he slept after fleeing from a battle (Judges 4:21). During a time of conflict with Ammon, Jephthah makes a vow to God that he will sacrifice whatever comes first out of the house and ends up sacrificing his own daughter (Judge 11). Towards the end of the book, an unnamed Levite's concubine is raped, and dies shortly afterwards. The Levite dismembers her, and has parts of her body distributed across Israel to inform people about what happened (Judges 19:29). This triggers a civil war between the Benjamites and the Israelites that kills thousands of people.\n\nIn the Books of Samuel, The Israelites war with the Philistines and are defeated at the Battle of Aphek. The Philistines capture the Ark of the Covenant, but God makes his displeasure known, and they later return it. The ark arrives at Beth-shemesh, where God slays fifty thousand men for gazing upon it (1 Samuel 6). Samuel urges Israel's people to \"put away the foreign gods\" and serve only God, which they do. The Philistines attack and are defeated at Mizpah.\n\nSaul is made king of Israel and wars with many enemies. Samuel commands Saul \"Now go and smite Amalek, and utterly destroy all that they have, and spare them not; but slay both man and woman, infant and suckling, ox and sheep, camel and ass\" (1 Samuel 15:3). Saul does not fully obey, which angers God and Samuel. Samuel kills the captured Agag, king of the Amalekites. \n\nDavid, anointed king in secret (1 Samuel 16), comes into Saul's service and \"loved him greatly\". The Philistines attack Israel, David slays their champion Goliath, and they flee. David becomes popular, witch makes Saul fear him and plot his death. David and Saul's daughter Michal wish to marry, and Saul asks for a dowry of one hundred foreskins of the Philistines. David delivers two hundred, and becomes the king's son-in-law (1 Samuel 18). Saul again wishes David dead, but they are reconciled by Saul's son Jonathan.\n\nWar comes again, David is victorious. Saul again wants to kill David, and he flees with help from his wife. Saul searches for him and slays the inhabitants of the city Nob for aiding David (1 Samuel 22). David defeats the Philistines at Keilah, then flees the city pursued by Saul (1 Samuel 22). David and Saul reconcile. David seeks refuge with Achish, king of Gath, and claims he is raiding Judah but is actually raiding and killing in other places (1 Samuel 27). The Philistines begins a war against Saul. David's wives Ahinoam and Abigail are taken in a raid on Ziklag, but he rescue them (1 Samuel 30). The men of Israel flee before the Philistines, and three of Saul's sons are slain. Saul asks his armour-bearer to kill him, but is refused, so he takes his own life. The armour-bearer also takes his own life. Saul's body is beheaded and fastened to a city-wall by the victorious Philistines, but it is retaken by inhabitants of Jabesh-Gilead (1 Samuel 30).\n\nA man tells David of Saul's death and that he himself killed Saul. David has him killed (2 Samuel 1). A long war starts between David and Saul's son Ish-bosheth (2 Samuel 3). David demands and is granted the return of his first wife Michal, despite the public grief of her new husband Palti. Two men assassinate Ish-bosheth, and David has them killed (2 Samuel 4). David wars victoriously with the Philistines. While transporting the Ark of the Covenant to Jerusalem, a man called Uzzah carelessly touches it and is killed by God (2 Samuel 6).\n\nDavid defeats and plunder several enemies, and \"executed justice and righteousness unto all his people.\" (2 Samuel 8). The children of Ammon mistreat David's emissaries, and is defeated by his army (2 Samuel 10).\n\nIn order to make Bathsheba his wife, David successfully plots the death of her husband. This displeases God, and David is told that \"the sword shall never depart from thy house.\" God kills David's and Bathsheba's child, that was conceived during her previous marriage. She then gives birth to Solomon. David conquers and plunders the city Rabbah (2 Samuel 11-12).\n\nDavid's son Amnon rapes his half-sister Tamar. Absalom, her full brother, in return has him killed (2 Samuel 13). Absalom conspires and revolts against David. Absalom is finally defeated and dies in the Battle of the Wood of Ephraim, and David mourns him (2 Samuel 15-19). Sheba son of Bichri revolts, but is ultimately beheaded (2 Samuel 20).\n\nIn 2 Samuel 21, David has seven of Sauls sons and grandsons killed, including \"the five sons of Michal the daughter of Saul\", though he spares Sauls grandson Mephibosheth. More wars take place. 2 Samuel 23 names and praises several of David's warriors.\n\nCharacters like Phinehas (Num. 25), Elijah (1 kg. 18:39–40; 2 kg. 1), and Elisha (2 kg. 2:23–25; 9) killed, ordered killing, participated in killing and foretold killing in the name of God. Elijah called down fire from Heaven to consume the sacrifice, then followed this display of God's power by catching and personally killing all the prophets of Baal; he twice called the fire down from heaven to consume the Captain and the fifty men with him sent by the King (2 Kings 1:10); Elisha called bears from the woods to maul the 42 \"youths\" who mocked him, and visited leprosy on Gehazi his deceitful servant, (2 Kings 5:27); Amos pronounces judgment on the nations including Israel offering a vision of Divine judgment that includes a swarm of locusts and divine fire; Ezekiel said, \"The word of the Lord came to me\" repeatedly pronouncing violent judgment against the nations and Israel,</ref> and a feminist interpretation of the book of Nahum speaks of the \"rape\" of Ninevah, the book's \"fascination with war, and the glee with which it calls for revenge.\"\n\nAs a response to the violence of the wicked, numerous psalms call on God to bring vengeance on one's personal enemies, for example Ps. 109 calls for vengeance on the entire family as \"payment\" to the Psalmist's accusers beginning with his children , including his wife and all his ancestors . Psalm 137 speaks against Babylon and expresses a desire to dash \"their infants against the rocks\".\n\nIn the Gospel of Matthew, Herod the Great is described as ordering the execution of all young male children in the vicinity of Bethlehem.\n\nThere are sayings of Jesus where he states that he comes to bring fire or a sword. The cleansing of the Temple is a direct violent action by Jesus. There are also sayings of Jesus that oppose violence, such as Turning the other cheek and the passage about Jesus and the woman taken in adultery.\n\nThe earliest detailed accounts of the death of Jesus are contained in the four canonical gospels. There are other, more implicit references in the New Testament epistles. In the synoptic gospels, Jesus predicts his death in three separate episodes. All four Gospels conclude with an extended narrative of Jesus' arrest, initial trial at the Sandhedrin and final trial at Pilate's court, where Jesus is flogged, condemned to death, forced to carry his cross through Jerusalem, and then crucified, buried, with accounts of resurrection following. His death is described as a sacrifice in the Gospels and other books of the New Testament. In each Gospel these five events in the life of Jesus are treated with more intense detail than any other portion of that Gospel's narrative. Scholars note that the reader receives an almost hour-by-hour account of what is happening.\nThe Book of Revelation is full of imagery of war, genocide, and destruction. It describes the Apocalypse, the last judgment of all the nations and people by God, which includes plagues, war, and economic collapse. Some other books of the Gospels also use apocalyptic language and forms. Scholars define this as language that \"views the future as a time when divine saving and judging activity will deliver God's people out of the present evil order into a new order...This transformation will be cataclysmic and cosmic.\"\n\nWhenever Jesus calls people to a new vision in light of God's impending kingdom, judgment, or a future resurrection, he is using apocalyptic speech. For example, Jesus uses apocalyptic speech in Matthew 10:15 when he says \"it will be more bearable for Sodom and Gomorrah on the day of judgment than for that town,\" and in Mark 14:62, where he alludes to the book of Daniel with himself in the future \"sitting at the right hand of God.\" Bailey and Vander Broek go on to say, \"In the material about John the Baptizer there also appear apocalyptic images: 'the wrath to come' (Luke 3:7); 'the axe ... lying at the root of the tree' (Luke 3:9); the Coming One with 'winnowing fork ... in His hand' (Luke 3:17); and chaff burning with 'unquenchable fire' (Luke 3:17).\"\n\nCharles B. Strozier, psychoanalyst historian says: \"The most troubling dimension of 'endism' is its relation to violence. ... fundamentalists generally believe... transformation can only be accomplished violently, and that the move from our time into the next requires mass death and destruction when '...this earth will be purged in the fires of God's anger, that Jesus will return, and that a new heaven and a new earth will be reborn'\". The Book of Revelation has been used to justify violence and has served as an inspiration of revolutionary movements.\n\nTexts of violence have produced a wide variety of theological responses.\n\nAs part of the many reflections on religious violence inspired by the Abrahamic religions that followed 9/11, John J. Collins wrote a short book called \"Does the Bible Justify Violence?\". In the book he reviews the passages in the Bible describing violence done by God, commanded or promised by God, and done by people, as well as how these texts have been used by religious people and governments throughout history. For example, he discusses The Exodus and the conquest of the Canaanites in the subsequent Book of Joshua, as two sides of the same coin; the Exodus story has inspired hope for millennia as well as civil rights movements; at the same time people identifying with the liberated Israel supported by God have cited the conquest to justify actions ranging from genocide of indigenous peoples to Apartheid. Collins concludes that the Bible speaks in many voices and answers his question as follows: \"...historically people have appealed to the Bible precisely because of its presumed divine authority, which gives an aura of certitude to any position it can be shown to support -- in the phrase of Hannah Arendt, 'God-like certainty that stops all discussion.' And here, I would suggest, is the most basic connection between the Bible and violence, more basic than any command or teaching it contains...The Bible has contributed to violence in the world precisely because it has been taken to confer a degree of certitude that transcends human discussion and argumentation.\" Collins, writing as a Christian scholar, also notes: \"It is not unusual for Christian interpreters to claim that 'the Biblical witness to the innocent victims and the God of victims demystifies and demythologizes this sacred social order' in which violence is grounded. Such a selective reading, privileging the death of Jesus or the suffering servant, is certainly possible and even commendable, but it does not negate the force of the biblical endorsements of violence that we have been considering. The full canonical shape of the Christian Bible, for what it is worth, still concludes with the judgement scene in Revelation, in which the Lamb that was slain returns as the heavenly warrior with a sword for striking down the nations.\"\n\nRegina Schwartz is among those who seek to reimagine Christianity and the Christian biblical canon in ways that reduce violence which she describes as arising from the ancient Israelite invention of monotheism and some of the ways that the ancient Israelites conceived of themselves in relation to that one god and to other peoples, which Christians inherited. She wrote: \"The Other against whom Israel's identity is forged is abhorred, abject, impure, and in the \"Old Testament,\" vast numbers of them are obliterated, while in the \"New Testament,\" vast numbers are colonized (converted). The tying of identity to rejection runs counter to much of the drive that could be found elsewhere, both in the Bible and throughout religious myth and ritual, to forge identity through analogy, even identification...Among all the rich variety, I would categorize two broad understandings of identity in the Bible: one grounded in Negation (or scarcity) and the other in Multiplicity (or plenitude). Near the end of her book, she wrote: \"My re-vision would produce an alternative Bible that subverts the dominant vision of violence and scarcity with an ideal of plenitude and its corollary ethical imperative of generosity. It would be a Bible embracing multiplicity instead of monotheism.\"\n\nStephen Geller notes that both the Deuteronomist and the Priestly authors working in the Axial Age were re-evaluating and reformulating their traditions, like their neighbors were, using the literary means available to them. The Deuteronomists expressed their new notions of the transcendence and power of God by means of ideas and associated laws around unity—the one-ness of God, worshipped at the one temple in Jerusalem, by one people, kept distinct from the rest of world just as God is; zealously and violently so. Likewise the Priestly author adapted the myths and rituals of the ANE and the specific traditions of the ancient Israelites to forge different meanings for blood sacrifice than their neighbors had, specifically in the elaborate and precarious rituals on the Day of Atonement when the High Priest had to enter the Holy of Holies and the presence of God; in their work the Priestly authors also attempted to express the transcendence and unity of God who is yet in a relationship with humanity with all its variable sinfulness. In Geller's reading the blood is not magical nor is the animal just a substitute for a human sacrifice; instead blood is at once an expression of the violence of the fallen world where people kill in order to eat (unlike Eden) and the blood itself becomes a means for redemption; it is forbidden to be eaten, as a sign of restraint and recognition, and is instead offered to God, and in that action the relationship between fallen humanity and God is restored. The Priestly authors underline the importance of all this by recalling the mortal danger faced by the High Priests, through the telling of the deaths of Nadab and Abihu when God refused their \"strange offering\" and consumed them with fire. One result of this reformulating work, is a God with aspects of terrifying and powerful otherness; as Annie Dillard wrote in Pilgrim at Tinker Creek: \"Does anyone have the foggiest idea what sort of power we so blithely invoke? Or, as I suspect, does no one believe a word of it? The churches are children playing on the floor with their chemistry sets, mixing up a batch of TNT to kill a Sunday morning. It is madness to wear ladies’ straw hats and velvet hats to church; we should all be wearing crash helmets. Ushers should issue life preservers and signal flares; they should lash us to our pews. For the sleeping god may wake someday and take offense, or the waking god may draw us out to where we can never return.\"\n\nEvan Fales, Professor of Philosophy, calls the doctrine of substitutionary atonement that some Christians use to understand the crucifixion of Jesus, \"psychologically pernicious\" and \"morally indefensible\". Fales founds his argument on John Locke’s statement that revelation must conform to our understanding. Philosopher and Professor Alvin Plantinga says this rests upon seeing God as a kind of specially talented human being.\n\nHistorian Philip Jenkins (quoting Phyllis Trible) says the Bible is filled with \"texts of terror\" but he also asserts these texts are not to be taken literally. Jenkins says eighth century BCE historians added them to embellish their ancestral history and get readers' attention.\n\nOld Testament scholar Ellen Davis is concerned by what she calls a \"shallow reading\" of Scripture, particularly of 'Old Testament' texts concerning violence, which she defines as a \"reading of what we think we already know instead of an attempt to dig deeper for new insights and revelations.\" She says these difficult texts typically have internal correctives that support an educative reading.\n\nDiscussions of bible and violence often lead to discussions of the theodicy - the question of how evil can persist in the world if God is all-powerful, all-knowing, and good.\n\nPhilosopher Eleonore Stump says the larger context of God permitting suffering for good purposes in a world where evil is real allows for such events as the killing of those intending evil and God to still be seen as good.\n\nJon Levenson resolves the problem of evil by describing God's power not as static, but as unfolding in time: \"the operative dichotomy, thus, is not that between limitation and omnipotence, but that which lies between omnipotence as a static attribute and omnipotence as a dramatic enactment: the absolute power of God realizing itself achievement and relationship. What the biblical theology of dramatic omnipotence shares with the theology of a limited God is a frank recognition of God's setbacks, in contrast to the classic theodicies with their exaggerated commitment to divine impassibility and their tendency to describe imperfection solely to human free will, the recalcitrance of matter, or the like.\"\n\nIn 1895 Hermann Gunkel observed that most Ancient Near Eastern (ANE) creation stories contain a theogony depicting a god doing combat with other gods thus including violence in the founding of their cultures. For example, in the Babylonian creation epic Enuma Elish, the first step of creation has Marduk fighting and killing Tiamat, a chaos monster, to establish order. Kenneth A. Mathews says, \"It has been typical of scholarship since Gunkel's \"Schöfung und Chaos\" (1895) to interpret Genesis 1's subjugation of 'the deep' and division of the 'waters' as a remnant of the battle motif between Marduk and watery Tiamat, which was taken up by the Hebrew author and demythologized, [but] most contemporary scholars now see the association of the Hebrew tehôm ('deep,' 1:2) with Tiamat as superficial.\" \"The fact [the Genesis creation account] was likely part of the last stages of the creation of the Pentateuch may indicate that the portrait of God in Gen. 1:1–2:4a was normative for those who gave the Old Testament canon its present shape. Hence, it seems that the account of God creating without violence in Gen. 1:1–2:4a “now serves as the overture to the entire Bible, dramatically relativizing the other cosmologies.\" \n\nCanaanite creation stories like the \"Enuma Elish\" use very physical terms such as \"tore open,\" \"slit,\" \"threw down,\" \"smashed,\" and \"severed\" whereas in the Hebrew Bible, Leviathan is not so much defeated as domesticated. Theologian Christopher Hays says Hebrew stories use a term for dividing (bâdal; separate, make distinct) that is an abstract concept more reminiscent of a Mesopotamian tradition using non-violence at creation. Most modern scholars agree that \"Gen. 1:1–2:4a narrates a story of God creating without violence or combat. In [the Genesis] account, the elements do not represent rival deities, and the story declares the creation “good” (Gen. 1:10, 12, 18, 21, 25, 31). What is more, in Gen. 1:1–2:4a the elements participate in the process of ordering at God’s invitation (Gen. 1:9, 11, 20).” Old Testament scholar Walter Brueggemann says \"God's characteristic action is to \"speak\"... God \"calls the world into being\"... \"The way of God with his world is the way of language.\"\n\nThese stories in Genesis are not the only stories about creation in the Bible. In Proverbs 8, for example one reads of personified \"Wisdom\" being present and participant in creation. There is also what is called the \"agon\" (meaning struggle or combat) model of creation in and in which God has victory in battle over the monsters of the sea. Historian theologian Christopher Hays says, there is similarity to the Canaanite myths in these Hebrew verses. However, he also says the differences are more pronounced than the similarities. Hays says \"Enuma Elish\" and Memphite theology are focused on a certain locale, where Genesis one does not mention a location (Isaiah 66:1); as has been noted, there is no theogeny in Genesis; and in the Canaanite stories the creators are glorified by being identified with other known deities whereas in Genesis, YHWH is glorified by the denial of other deities.\n\nThe intent of Genesis 1:1-2n concerning \"creation from nothing\" is disputed. Jon Levenson, writing Jewish biblical theology, asserts the creation stories in Genesis are not \"ex nihilo\", but rather a generation of order out of chaos, similar to other ANE creation myths; the order allows life to flourish and holds back chaos which brings violence and destruction, which has never been obliterated and is always breaking back in. He finds that the writers of the Hebrew Bible referred to God's actions at creation as a statement of faith in a God who could protect and maintain them, or who could also step back and allow chaos to rush back in, as God did with the Flood. He finds that the writers of the Hebrew Bible also held up God's actions at creation as a challenge for God to act, and a challenge for themselves to work in covenant with God in the ongoing work of generating and maintaining order. In this, the Bible story is dissimilar to the both the Memphite story and the Babylonian in that the Hebrew Bible says the divine gift of working with God in creation is limited to humankind, meaning, for the Hebrews, humans alone are part of God's being. This sense of honoring or empowering humankind is not in any of the Mesopotamian or Canaanite myths.\n\nWarfare represents a special category of biblical violence and is a topic the Bible addresses, directly and indirectly, in four ways: there are verses that support pacifism, and verses that support non-resistance; 4th century theologian Augustine found the basis of just war in the Bible, and preventive war which is sometimes called crusade has also been supported using Bible texts. Susan Niditch explores the range of war ideologies in ancient Near Eastern culture saying, \"...To understand attitudes toward war in the Hebrew Bible is thus to gain a handle on war in general...\" In the Hebrew Bible warfare includes the Amalekites, Canaanites, Moabites, and the record in Exodus, Deuteronomy, Joshua, and both books of Kings.\n\nIn the Bible God commands the Israelites to conquer the Promised Land, placing city after city \"under the ban\" -which meant every man, woman and child was supposed to be slaughtered at the point of the sword. For example, in Deuteronomy 20:16-18 God orders the Israelites to \"not leave alive anything that breathes… completely destroy them …\", thus leading many scholars to characterize these as commands to commit genocide. Other examples include the story of the Amalekites (Numbers 13,14), the story of the Midianites (Numbers 25,26), and the battle of Jericho (Joshua 1-6). Starting in Joshua 9, after the conquest of Ai, the battles are described as defending against attacks from Canaanite kings.\n\nHans Van Wees says the conquest campaigns are largely fictional. In the archaeological community, the Battle of Jericho has been thoroughly studied, and the consensus of modern scholars is the battles described in the Book of Joshua are not realistic, are not supported by the archeological record, and are not consistent with other texts in the Bible; for example, the Book of Joshua describes the extermination of the Canaanite tribes, yet at a later time Judges 1:1-2:5 suggests that the extermination was not complete.\n\nHistorian Paul Copan and philosopher Matthew Flannagan say the violent texts of \"ḥerem\" warfare are \"hagiographic hyperbole\", a kind of historical writing found in the Book of Joshua and other Near Eastern works of the same era and are not intended to be literal, contain hyperbole, formulaic language, and literary expressions for rhetorical effect—like when sports teams use the language of “totally slaughtering” their opponents. John Gammie concurs, saying the Bible verses about \"utterly destroying\" the enemy are more about pure religious devotion than an actual record of killing people. Gammie references Deuteronomy 7:2-5 in which Moses presents \"ḥerem\" as a precondition for Israel to occupy the land with two stipulations: one is a statement against intermarriage (vv. 3–4), and the other concerns the destruction of the sacred objects of the residents of Canaan (v. 5) but neither involves killing.\n\nC. L. Crouch compares the two kingdoms of Israel and Judah to Assyria, saying their similarities in cosmology and ideology gave them similar ethical outlooks on war. Both Crouch and Lauren Monroe, professor of Near Eastern studies at Cornell, agree this means the \"ḥerem\" type of total war was not strictly an Israelite practice but was a common approach to war for many Near Eastern people of the Bronze and Iron Ages. For example, the Mesha Stele says that King Mesha of Moab fought in the name of his god Chemosh and that he subjected his enemies to \"ḥerem\".\n\nViolence against women appears throughout the Old Testament. Many have attributed this to a patriarchal society, while some scholars say the problem stems from the larger context of a male dominated culture. Women are treated in differing ways in the Bible. For example, the Book of Judges includes the judge Deborah, who was honored, as well as two of the most egregious examples in the Bible of violence against women: Jephthah’s daughter (Judg. 11:29–40) and the Levite’s concubine (Judg. 19).\n\nScholar author Phyllis Trible looks at these instances from the perspective of the victim making their pathos palpable, underlying their human reality, and the tragedy of their stories. Some feminist critiques of Judges say the Bible gives tacit approval to violence against women by not speaking out against these acts.\n\nO'Connor says women in the Old Testament generally serve as points of reference for the larger story, yet Judges abounds with stories where women play the main role. O'Connor explains the significance of this, saying: \"The period between the death of Joshua and the anointing of Saul...was a period of uncertainty and danger... lack of human leadership is viewed as disastrous, for when \"every one does what is right in their own eyes, the results are awful\" and that is illustrated by the violent acts against women recorded in Judges.\n\nBeginning with the larger context and tracing the decline of Israel by following the deteriorating status of women and the violence done to them, which progresses from the promise of life in the land to chaos and violence, the effects of the absence of authority such as a king (Judges 21:25) is reflected in the violence against women that occurs when government fails and social upheaval occurs.\n\nThe term for peace in the Hebrew Bible is SH-L-M. It is used to describe prophetic vision of ideal conditions, and theologians have built on passages referencing it to advocate for various forms of social justice.\n\nThe ancient Israelites did not worship the dead, sacrifice to them, or hope to reunite with them in an afterlife; a concept of hell as a place of punishment in the afterlife arose in Second Temple Judaism and was further developed in the Christian tradition; Judaism subsequently moved away from this notion. There are Hebrew Bible verses indicating early Jewish thought did contain some belief in an afterlife. For example Isaiah 26:14 which is part of Proto-Isaiah (chapters 1–39), containing the words of Isaiah who lived in the Kingdom of Judah during the reigns of four kings from the mid to late 8th century BCE speaks of \"the dead who live no more\" as being \"punished and destroyed\". And Daniel 12:2,3 which is generally believed to date to the second century BCE asserts, \"Many of those who sleep in the dust of the ground will awake, these to everlasting life, but the others to disgrace and everlasting contempt.\" More evidence comes from Maccabees, written in the second century BCE, and by the first century CE, friction between the Sadducees and the Pharisees over this issue is documented by both the New Testament writers and Josephus giving evidence of its presence in Jewish thought.\n\nThe word Sheol appears 65 times in the Hebrew Bible and the term \"Tartaros\" appears frequently in Jewish apocalyptic literature where it refers to a place where the wicked are punished. In the New Testament there are three words translated \"Hell\": the Greek word \"hades,\" which is a general equivalent of the Hebrew \"Sheol,\" is used to identify the temporary place of the unsaved after death but is not used in relationship to the lake of fire or eternal punishment; \"gehenna\" is uniformly translated Hell and refers to eternal punishment; and one occurrence of \"tartaros\" appears in 2 Peter 2:4 and is considered equivalent to \"gehenna\". All the references to \"gehenna\" (except James 3:6) are spoken by Jesus himself. A literal interpretation involves violence. Jesus also taught punishment in Hell would be by degrees (an idea Dante later developed) with one servant receiving a lighter beating than others, hypocrites receiving more condemnation than others, and so on.\n\nAccording to a statement by the publisher of \"Four Views on Hell\", Zondervan, \"probably the most disturbing concept in Christian tradition is the prospect that one day vast numbers of people will be consigned to Hell.\"\n\nC.S.Lewis argued that people choose Hell rather than repent and submit to God. Miroslav Wolf argues that the doctrine of final judgment provides a necessary restraint on human violence. Tim Keller says it is right to be angry when someone brings injustice or violence to those we love and therefore a loving God can be filled with wrath because of love, not in spite of it. Oliver O'Donovan argues that without the judgment of God we would never see the love in redemption.\n\nAs the early Christian Church began to distinguish itself from Judaism, the \"Old Testament\" and a portrayal of God in it as violent and unforgiving were sometimes contrasted rhetorically with certain teachings of Jesus to portray an image of God as more loving and forgiving, which was framed as a new image.\n\nMarcion of Sinope, in the early second century, developed an early Christian dualist belief system that understood the god of the Old Testament and creator of the material universe, who he called the Demiurge, as an altogether different being than the God about whom Jesus spoke. Marcion considered Jesus' universal God of compassion and love, who looks upon humanity with benevolence and mercy, incompatible with Old Testament depictions of divinely ordained violence. Accordingly, he did not regard the Hebrew scriptures as part of his scriptural canon. Marcion's teaching was repudiated by Tertullian in five treatises titled \"Against Marcion\" and Marcion was ultimately excommunicated by the Church.\n\nSupersessionist Christians have continued to focus on violence in the Hebrew Bible while ignoring or giving little attention to violence in the New Testament.\n\nJože Krašovec described the ancient near eastern (ANE) context in which the stories and text of the Hebrew Bible originated, in which gods were identified with peoples, and the flourishing or destruction of a people were a reflection of the power of its god or gods; while the ancient Israelites conceived of its deity as one person in contrast to the polytheistic conception of its neighbors, it remained like other ANE peoples in considering itself as a whole in relationship with its god. From this foundation arose notions of flourishing of the nation as a whole, as well as collective punishment of the ancient Israelites and their enemies.\n\nScholar Nur Masalha writes that the \"genocide\" of the extermination commandments has been \"kept before subsequent generations\" and served as inspirational examples of divine support for slaughtering enemies.\n\nArthur Grenke quotes historian, author and scholar David Stannard: \"Discussing the influence of Christian beliefs on the destruction of the Native peoples in the Americas, Stannard argues that while the New Testament view of war is ambiguous, there is little such ambiguity in the Old Testament. He points to sections in Deuteronomy in which the Israelite God, Yahweh, commanded that the Israelites utterly destroy idolaters whose land they sought to reserve for the worship of their deity (Deut 7:2, 16, and 20:16–17). ... According to Stannard, this view of war contributed to the ... destruction of the Native peoples in the Americas. It was this view that also led to the destruction of European Jewry. Accordingly, it is important to look at this particular segment of the Old Testament: it not only describes a situation where a group undertakes to totally destroy other groups, but it also had a major influence on shaping thought and belief systems that permitted, and even inspired, genocide.\n\nSociologists Frank Robert Chalk and Kurt Jonassohn question \"the applicability of the term [genocide] to earlier periods of history, and the judgmental and moral loadings that have become associated with it.\" Since most societies of the past endured and practiced genocide, it was accepted as \"being in the nature of life\" because of the \"coarseness and brutality\" of life. Chalk and Jonassohn say the Old Testament contains cases they would consider genocide (if they were factual) because of women and children being killed even though it was war and casualties in war are excluded from the definition of genocide. They also say: \"The evidence for genocide in antiquity is circumstantial, inferential, and ambiguous, and it comes to us exclusively from the perpetrators.\"\n\nHistorian and author William T. Cavanaugh says every society throughout history has contained both hawks and doves. Cavanaugh and John Gammie say laws like those in Deuteronomy probably reflect Israel's internal struggle over such differing views of how to wage war.\n\nArie Versluis says, \"...indigenous populations have also appealed to the command (in Deut.7) in order to expel their colonizers. This is shown by the example of Te Kooti...in the nineteenth century who viewed the Maori as the Israelites and the colonizers as the Canaanites.\"\n\nScholar Leonard B. Glick states that Jewish fundamentalists in Israel, such as Shlomo Aviner, consider the Palestinians to be like biblical Canaanites, and that some fundamentalist leaders suggest that they \"must be prepared to destroy\" the Palestinians if the Palestinians do not leave the land. Several scholars draw similar conclusions.\n\nRené Girard, historian, literary critic, and philosopher of social science says that, \"desire is mimetic (i.e. all of our desires are borrowed from other people), that all conflict originates in mimetic desire (mimetic rivalry), that the scapegoat mechanism is the origin of sacrifice and the foundation of human culture, and religion was necessary in human evolution to control the violence that can come from mimetic rivalry, and that the Bible reveals these ideas and denounces the scapegoat mechanism.\".\n\nPhilosopher, sociologist, theologian and author Jacques Ellul says: \"I believe that the biblical teaching is clear. It always contests political power. It incites to \"counterpower,\" to \"positive\" criticism, to an irreducible dialogue (like that between king and prophet in Israel), to antistatism, to a decentralizing of the relation, to an extreme relativizing of everything political, to an anti-ideology, to a questioning of all that claims either power or dominion (in other words, of all things political)...Throughout the Old Testament we see God choosing what is weak and humble to represent him (the stammering Moses, the infant Samuel, Saul from an insignificant family, David confronting Goliath, etc.). Paul tells us that God chooses the weak things of the world to confound the mighty...\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1938715", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1938715", "title": "Tractatus Logico-Philosophicus (6.5)", "text": "Tractatus Logico-Philosophicus (6.5)\n\nIn the \"Tractatus Logico-Philosophicus\" of Ludwig Wittgenstein, Proposition 6.5 seeks to ground his philosophy of action (Proposition 7: \"Whereof one cannot speak, thereof one must be silent\").\n\n\nAlthough the historical significance of \"Tractatus\" is for its influence on the philosophers of logical empiricism, by providing them with a framework for a philosophy of science, and hence engineering, Wittgenstein actually wrote it as a work on ethics. See his propositions 6.4 onward.\n\nBut his motivation for writing, and the style of presentation, follow Frege and Russell, below.\n\n\nThese famous propositions, starting from 1, and ending at 7, are striking for their simplicity and ambition.\n\nProposition 6.5 (and its consequence) can not be understood until one realizes that Wittgenstein was a son of a family at the apex of Viennese culture, the capital of an empire (now vanished). In today's terms, the answer 6.5 is that from a man who some might view as possessed of the highest intellect, moral discrimination, and worldly wealth. He literally could do anything he wished. But his father, Karl, thought him untalented, in comparison to the rest of the family, which included musicians, and artists. He was schooled at home until age 14 (he later imposed his ideals on his hapless students after he had completed \"Tractatus\", and had undertaken training as a schoolteacher (1920)). He was assigned to study engineering and undertook the curriculum of a mechanical engineer at Berlin Technische Hochschule (1906).\n\nHe later attended the University of Manchester in England as a doctoral student in aeronautical engineering (1908). Thus Wittgenstein undertook the study of the foundation of mathematics, when he began to design jet propellers. But he refused to accept the propositions he encountered and brought his questions to Frege, who had undertaken a program to base mathematics on logic (1878). Frege, unable to counter his questions, referred him to Russell. Russell, by this time, had completed a work on Frege's program (1903), and was collaborating with Whitehead on \"Principia Mathematica\". He duly appeared at Cambridge (1911), where Russell assigned him a tutor, K.E. Johnson, for logic. After one hour, Johnson reported that Wittgenstein was teaching \"him\". But Russell had discovered some antinomies in logic, seriously calling into question Frege's program. Frege's program for logic as the basis of mathematics was now in shambles. Wittgenstein thus retired to Norway to work out his ideas (1913), and perhaps rescue Frege's program. This was the basis for his Tractatus.\n\nWhile in Norway, his father Karl died (1913), leaving him heir to a fortune, which he attempted to give away (much of it to his surviving siblings, on the condition that they not give any back to him). By 1914, the Austro-Hungarian Empire was at war with Russell's British Empire, and Wittgenstein volunteered to fight for the Empire of Habsburg Vienna.\n\nWhile a soldier, before the serious fighting, he found a magazine article about a lawsuit involving a baby carriage and a truck. The court case re-enacted the incident with models. It was this event which made him realize that the subject of this process could be described by pictures as well as in words—the genesis of his \"picture theory of language\" (Tractatus 2.*). But this idea was already endemic in Viennese thought.\n\n\nIn this case, the elementary propositions, say \"a\". stand for ordinary sentences in ordinary language. They are not meant to be further analyzed, but are taken as givens.\n\nWittgenstein thus gives a notation which expresses an inductive form.\n\nIn this notation, ξ expresses the set of the arguments of truth function ξ, and N( ξ ) is the power set of ξ.\n\n\nThe conservation laws of physics stand as a statement of belief, in contrast with the \"a priori\" character of the logical form in 6.\n\nHistorically, the statements from 6.4 onward were ignored by the Vienna Circle and the other proponents of logical empiricism, as they simply did not know what to make of them. Wittgenstein was not present to bolster his case, as he was a schoolteacher and gardener at the moment that Tractatus was published. Afterward, he did not help his case by reciting the pacifist poems of Rabindranath Tagore to them, in place of analytic discussion. Indeed, 6.41 below seems to have a different character from the chain of thought stated above.\n\n\nBut 6.41 needs to be re-examined in this chain of justification.\nStatement 6.41 appears to be an appeal; the word \"must\" shows up in striking contrast to the rest of Tractatus, which consist of declarative statements. His usual economy in words is replaced by repetition. 6.41 is revisited below.\n\nWittgenstein himself was an exemplar of 7, by \"acting\" instead of \"speaking\", an ethical position. What actually impelled Wittgenstein, according to Janik and Toulmin, was the role models of a few men like Fritz Mauthner, as Wittgenstein himself set out to live the example of 7, as an engineer, a soldier, a schoolteacher, an architect, a gardener, a professor, a hospital orderly. As a professor, he attempted to follow up on \"Tractatus\", with his posthumous \"Philosophical Investigations\".\n\nThere is an ominous side-note to this action; at the same time that this Viennese was living his ideals, the forces of fascism were also acting to destroy the existing world order. These forces appeared not to be based on existing ethical principles, but on rather different ones based solely on might; the poetry of Rabindranath Tagore meant nothing to them, either.\n\nBecause 6.41 is different in character from the other propositions, a review is appropriate. Here we use the machinery of deontic modal logic, with the following conventions, but tag 6.41's statements with the type of statement:\n\n6.41 is an example of deontic modal logic. Wittgenstein is making statements of necessity of ethical action, rather than basing actions on contingent or accidental results, which he equates with the world. The doubling of the phrase \"no value\" is an indication that the statements are being made for different modalities.\n\n"}
{"id": "21087522", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21087522", "title": "Transformation of text", "text": "Transformation of text\n\nTransformations of text are strategies to perform geometric transformations on text (reversals, rotations, etc.), particularly in systems that do not natively support transformation, such as HTML, seven-segment displays and plain text.\n\nMany systems, such as HTML, seven-segment displays and plain text, do not support transformation of text. In the case of HTML, this limitation in display may eventually be addressed through standard cascading style sheets (CSS), since proposed specifications for CSS3 include rotation for block elements. In the meantime, several ways of producing the visual effects of text transformations have come into use.\n\nThe most common of these transformations are rotation and reflection.\n\nUnicode supports a variety of characters that resemble transformed characters, primarily for various forms of phonetic transcription. Each of these character names indicates what kind of transformation the characters have undergone:\n\n\nStrategies can be used to render words upside down in languages such as HTML that do not permit rotation of text; using Unicode characters (especially those in the IPA), a very close approximation of upside-down text (also called flip text) can be achieved. The letters s, x, z and o are rotationally symmetrical, while pairs such as b/q, d/p and n/u are rotations of each other. The rest of the letters have been encoded into the Unicode IPA section, generating a complete set of upside-down lowercase letters. With the addition of the Fraser alphabet to the Unicode standard in version 5.2, full (or at least near-full) support for upside-down capital letters is now available. Number support is incomplete; four numbers are universally strobogrammatic (0, 8, and 6/9), and the upside-down versions of numbers 2 and 3 have been provisionally assigned Unicode points for use in dozenal notation; however, other numbers still are not supported. Punctuation (by use of such characters as the interpunct and the inverted question mark and exclamation point) is mostly covered. Several Internet utilities exist for the transformation of regular text to (and sometimes from) upside-down text; each has its own slightly different algorithm for letters not precisely or well covered. A list of converters and algorithms can be found at the list below.\n\nA similar process is USD encoding, which uses characters entirely within the ASCII character set. Because it is almost entirely alphanumeric, it is far more compatible with other programs that do not support Unicode, and more readily typed by hand. However, the text created by using USD encoding is far less legible, and in fact more closely resembles Leet. Another problem is that because not all letters fit well, the USD algorithms cannot be a complete involution (i.e., completely convertible back and forth) and contain a complete set of letters at the same time. For instance, the Albartus USD algorithm example seen in the \"Examples\" section below has k, T, t, and R still in their upright positions. Another issue with USD encoding is the use of italic type. The letter \"a\" will, in most typefaces using italic fonts, render it as a \"one-story\" Latin alpha, thus causing problems with any word using that letter as a lowercase \"e.\" Oblique type does not have this problem.\n\nBelow is a conversion table that can be used to transform lowercase, uppercase numeric and punctuation output. These characters require unicode version 8.0 minimum (in particular the ᘔ and Ɛ from the duodecimal block).\n\nSideways text presents a unique problem. Though it is likely the most practical (as opposed to artistic) form of text transformation, it is the least supported and is the most difficult to implement. Unlike rotating text 180 degrees, the number of sideways characters falls far short of what would be needed for most purposes, and because text is rendered horizontally, it would be very difficult to render beyond one line of vertical text in a well-aligned manner without columns, especially in proportional fonts (furthermore, each character would require a line break after it). The process of using alternate characters for sideways text is further complicated by the fact that most fonts space letters further apart vertically (to accommodate underlining and overlining) than horizontally, and that most fonts are taller than they are wider, making simulated sideways text look significantly more awkward.\n\nInternet Explorer has a CSS property that will rotate normally entered text 90 degrees clockwise:\n\nHowever, no other major browsers (Mozilla Firefox, Opera nor WebKit based browsers) support this writing-mode property. However, all major standards-compliant browsers now support CSS3 rotation for block elements, which makes the visual rotation of HTML text available.\n\nThe most common way around these problems is to use images of text, which can then be rotated and transformed in an image editor at will, and to represent the text in those images with the alt attribute so that search engines and text-only browsers can read it properly. The use of ANSI art and box-drawing characters to manually draw sideways text has the advantage of being copiable and pastable (whereas images are not in most plain text situations), but generally creates large characters.\n\nThough less widespread, text can also be reversed to be a mirror image of itself. Letters A, H, I, M, O/o, T, U, V/v, W/w, X/x, Y, and in some fonts i and l are symmetrical in the y-axis; the pairs of b/d and p/q transform to each other. The letters И, Я, and \"г\" from Cyrillic, among other sources, are among the numerous characters that can be used to further generate this effect. Reversed text can use capital letters mixed with lowercase, as opposed to the strict lowercase used by upside-down transformation (upside-down lowercase and capital letters do not generally align as they would upright, though reversed letters do).\n\nX-axis symmetry is visible in the letters B, C, D, E, H, I, K, O, X, and in some fonts a and l, as well as in the pairs of a/g, b/p, d/q, e/G, and f/t. Expanding to Cyrillic and Greek produces more symmetries, such as Λ/V and Γ/L.\n\nThe Fixedsys Excelsior typeface includes a complete set of reversed characters like this in its Private Use Area. However, online utilities to create mirrored text are not readily available, and most sites that claim to \"mirror text\" or \"reverse text\" in fact only change the order of the letters and do not actually flip the letters themselves.\n\nThrough the use of Unicode's small capitals and subscript and superscript phonetic modifiers, text can be created that is smaller than the inline text. This is generally only necessary for applications that only support one-size plain text, since HTML and CSS support different text sizes.\n\n\n\nExample of reversed text reflected along a y-axis:\n\nPoet Darius Bacon has written two examples of palindromic poetry that reads the same upside-down as it does upside right.\n"}
{"id": "49662116", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49662116", "title": "Trudy Govier", "text": "Trudy Govier\n\nTrudy Rose Govier (born August 3, 1944) is a Canadian philosopher known for her work in informal logic and argumentation. She is the author of the influential text \"A Practical Study of Argument\". She has also been a frequent commentator in Canadian media on issues related to violence and conflict resolution.\n\nGovier received her PhD in philosophy from the University of Waterloo in 1971. She has taught philosophy at Trent University, Simon Fraser University, the University of Amsterdam, the University of Calgary, the University of Lethbridge, and the University of Winnipeg. Much of Govier's work has surrounded practical argument, focusing on issues of trust, forgiveness, and reconciliation. She has been a distinguished visiting researcher with the Centre for Research in Reasoning, Argumentation, and Rhetoric at the University of Windsor. She retired from teaching in 2012.\n\nThe nature of Govier's approach to argumentation has prompted her to engage practically with social issues outside of academia. She is a founding member of the Calgary chapter of the peace activist organization Project Ploughshares and has been involved in labour advocacy.\n\n"}
{"id": "36189079", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36189079", "title": "Xin (concept)", "text": "Xin (concept)\n\nIn Chinese philosophy, xin can refer to one's \"disposition\" or \"feelings\" (), or to one's confidence or trust in something or someone (). Literally, \"xin\" (心) refers to the physical heart, though it is sometimes translated as \"mind\" as the ancient Chinese believed the heart was the center of human cognition. For this reason, it is also sometimes translated as \"heart-mind\". It has a connotation of intention, yet can be used to refer to long-term goals. Xunzi, an important early Confucian thinker, considered \"xin\" (心) to be cultivated during one's life, in contrast to innate qualities of \"xing\" (), or human nature.\n\nA Daoist view, specifically from the philosopher Zhuangzi, understands \"xin\" (心) as being socialized, with environmental pressures influencing personal intentions, sometimes in such a way that can provoke disagreements and conflict. While a Confucian might take heart that \"xin\" (心) may be cultivated in order to develop \"de\", or moral virtue, Zhuangzi considered this socialization as detrimental to one's personal nature, somewhat along the lines of the later French philosopher, Jean-Jacques Rousseau. However, unlike Rousseau, René Descartes and many other Enlightenment-era European philosophers following the classical example of Plato, emotion and reason were not considered separate entities, but rather as coextensive; \"xin\" (心) itself is a concept that is as much cognitive as emotional.\n\n"}
