{"id": "19474185", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19474185", "title": "229 West 43rd Street", "text": "229 West 43rd Street\n\n229 West 43rd Street, formerly known as The New York Times Building, is an 18-story () office building, located at 229 West 43rd Street between Seventh and Eighth Avenue near Times Square in Manhattan, a borough of New York City. It was the headquarters of \"The New York Times\" newspaper from 1913 through 2007.\n\nThe building was built in three stages between 1912 and 1937. It was originally designed by Mortimer J. Fox, of the firm Buchman & Fox, and called the New York Times Annex because it was designed to supplement the One Times Square Times Tower, built in 1905 at Broadway and 42nd Street (which gives Times Square its name). In 1922, the Ludlow & Peabody firm designed a extension on the west side as well as a five-story setback attic level in the style of the French Renaissance, including the Mansard roofs. From 1930 to 1932, architect Albert Kahn designed a further expansion to the west including a second lobby and roof-top studio. Further expansions included a 12-story New York Times North building adjoining it to the north on 44th Street.\n\nThe New York Times Company sold the building in 2004 to Tishman Speyer Properties for $175 million. Tishman sold it to Africa Israel Investments in 2007 for $525 million. , Africa Israel was in the midst of a $175 million renovation including adding a new sign on the top and replacing a digital clock in place since 1962 with an analog version. Africa Israel officially calls it \"The Times Square Building\".\n\nIn 2015, Jared Kushner purchased $295 million worth of space in the former New York Times Building on 43rd Street near from Lev Avnerovich Leviev's firms Africa Israel Investments and Five Mile Capital. Later, in October 2016, Kushner used this space as a basis for a $285 million loan from Deutsche Bank. These deals attracted special counsel Robert Mueller's attention as possible ties between Trump family real estate deals and Russian money interests while he is investigating alleged Russian interference in the 2016 United States elections.\n\nFrom 2009-2016, the basement housed Discovery TSX.. National Geographic Encounter: Ocean Odyssey, operated by Times Square Attractions Live opened in that space in 2017. Since April 2013, the 5th floor has housed MongoDB Inc. (formerly 10gen), a database company. Some of the 6th and 7th floors is Snapchat, as well the entire 15th and 16th (top) floors and the 16th floor 673 sq ft tower. Yahoo! is on the 9th, 10th, 11th, 12th and 14th floors. In December 2017, Complex Networks subleased 80,000 square feet of space from Yahoo. PubMatic and the Worth Global Style Network are on the 7th floor. AlphaSights is on the 4th floor. As of June, 2016, Engine Group is on the 8th floor, including ORC International, Deep Focus and Moment Studio. Snap Inc. currently rents 25% of the building. The bottom two floors are owned by Kushner Companies. Bowlmor Lanes opened some lanes in the building.\n\n"}
{"id": "21322809", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21322809", "title": "Ahti Heinla", "text": "Ahti Heinla\n\nAhti Heinla (born 2 May 1972) is an Estonian programmer and entrepreneur. He is one of the developers of Skype.\n\nHe was also an organizer of Let's Do It 2008, a civic action with 50,000 volunteers participating in cleaning up the countryside of Estonia in one day.\n\nHe was a recipient of the 2008 Estonian Volunteer of the Year national award.\n\nHe has been a member of the board at the nature protection NGO Estonian Fund for Nature since 2006.\n\nHeinla speaks Estonian, English and Spanish.\n\nIn 2013 and 2014 he participated on NASA Centennial Challenge as team leader for Team Kuukulgur.\n\nHeinla and Janus Friis founded Starship Technologies in 2014, to develop small self-driving delivery robots. He serves as CEO and CTO in it.\n\n"}
{"id": "53461552", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53461552", "title": "Alexey Komissarov", "text": "Alexey Komissarov\n\nAlexey G. Komissarov () (born October 20, 1969, Moscow, Russia.) – Russian entrepreneur, Vice-Rector of the Russian Presidential Academy of National Economy and Public Administration (RANEPA) and the Director of the Graduate School of Public Administration at the RANEPA, ex-Minister of the Government of Moscow.\n\nIn 1994 graduated the with maintenance and vehicles repair engineering degree. Thеn in 2003 he received an MBA from Kingston University, United Kingdom. In 2009–2010 studied at the London Institute of Directors (IoD) for the Chartered Director Program.\n\nIn 1993 Komissarov founded \"Car-repair system\", company, specializing in the computerized selection of automotive paints\n\nIn 2008 became the winner of the project \"Personnel reserve – Professional team of the country\", and was included in the government reserve project from Moscow.\n\nSince 2009 – teaches a set of lectures on Entrepreneurship in Kingston University and the Academy of National Economy as a part of joint MBA program under Government of the Russian Federation.\n\n2010 – opened a paint factory in Tver that uses modern innovative technology production of high quality automotive and industrial paints,\n\nIn May 2010 – founded (together with Vladimir Mau) and headed the (Business incubator) at the Academy of National Economy –.\nMember of the independent directors Association (IDA) and the National Association of Business Angels (SBAR). He was an active angel investor with investments in at least ten start-ups.\n\nOn November 25, 2010, Komissarov won Entrepreneur of the Year 2010\" in the Industrial production category at \"Ernst & Young\" Russian stage international competition.\n\nOn February 7, 2011, became head of the Department of \"Small and Medium Business support and development\" in the Moscow city Government..\n2011, June, – Department for Small and Medium Business support and development merged with Department of Science and Industrial Policy, Alexey Komissarov appointed as a Head of the Joint Department of Science, Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship of Moscow city, Russia.\n\n2012 – took part in drafting the law for \"Scientific, technical and innovative activity in Moscow city.\" Moscow City Duma adopted it as a Moscow city law on June 6, 2012. This law established support by the State for science, technology and innovation. This law stands for the creation of techno parks and techno polis system.\n\n2013 – received Kingston University (UK) degree of honorary Doctorate for his outstanding contribution to the development of entrepreneur's movement.\n\nOn September 17, 2013 was appointed as Minister in the Government of Moscow,\n\nIn September 2014 became an adviser to Sergey Sobyanin, Moscow city Mayor.(resigned as head of the Department of Science, Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship of Moscow city).\n\nIn March 2015 – appointed as the head the Department of Entrepreneurial Leadership at Moscow \"Skolkovo\" Management School.\nIn this position, Alexey Komissarov provides interaction of all elements of the Business School ecosystem; business community and its members; alumni organizations, such as Club of investors and Association of mentors of Skolkovo Business school.\n\nOn March 18, 2015 – Director of the Industrial Development Fund. Fund was established after reorganization of the Russian Foundation for Technological Development. There were more than 800 applications submitted for this competition.\n\nOn June 3, 2015 – became an independent director in the board of directors at JSC \"GLONASS\". Before this, in early 2015 he was seriously considered by experts, as one of the main contenders to be the head of JSC \"GLONASS\".\n\nApril 6, 2017 - appointed Vice-Rector of the Russian Presidential Academy of National Economy and Public Administration (RANEPA) and the Director of the Graduate School of Public Administration at the RANEPA \n\nActively participate in the work of public associations and various expert groups under state agencies\n\n\nHe participated in Russian and European motorcycle championships. Teamed up with Alexander Kuznetsov, Alexey Komissarov took first place in the Endurance Cup of Russia in 2008.\nIn March 2015, he took part in one of the 20 most extreme races of the world – Baikal Ice Marathon (42 km on the ice of lake Baikal in Siberia from one bank to another) and finished second in his age category.\nNow he is doing Triathlon, in 2016 finished two IronMan races (in South Africa and Spain)\nHe enjoys motorbike racing, photography, diving, swimming, pentathlon, skiing and boxing\n\nHe is married and has three daughters.\n"}
{"id": "50920328", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50920328", "title": "Arthur Tugade", "text": "Arthur Tugade\n\nArthur \"Art\" Planta Tugade (born January 9, 1946) is a Filipino businessman and lawyer from Cagayan. He is the current Secretary of the Department of Transportation after being appointed by President Rodrigo Duterte to replace Joseph Emilio Abaya. He previously held the position of President and Chief Executive Officer of Clark Development Corporation, an attached agency of the government-owned Bases Conversion and Development Authority under President Benigno Aquino III.\n\nTugade was born on January 9, 1946 to poor parents from Claveria, Cagayan, Francisco Tugade and Lucefina Planta. His parents were both employed at the Public Works Department and he was in elementary school when they moved to Sampaloc, Manila. \n\nTugade attended law school at the San Beda College of Law where he was classmates with President Rodrigo Duterte. He graduated \"magna cum laude\" in 1971. He completed his post-graduate studies at the National University of Singapore under the NUS-Stanford Executive Program in 1985.\n\nTugade engaged in private law practice before joining government service. He was a partner at Bengzon, Verano, Tugade and Escolin Law Office. He also pursued a career in global logistics, information technology, tourism and consumer products business serving as chairman and president of several firms, including Transnational Diversified Group, Yusen Air and Sea Services, TDG Asia Corporation, Harmony Organic Farms, and Easycall Communications.\n\nTugade founded Perry's Realty, named after his son who died from asthma attack at age 12. The company grew to become Perry's Holding Corporation which employs more than 350 employees in 10 corporations of the Perry's Group of Companies which include Transglobal Equipment Leasing, Perry's Technology, ATP Travel, Perryome, Transglobal Trucking and Transglobal Consolidators, Inc.\n"}
{"id": "13417959", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13417959", "title": "Audu Maikori", "text": "Audu Maikori\n\nAudu Maikori (born 13 August 1975, Kaduna) is a Nigerian lawyer, entrepreneur, social activist, public speaker and creative industry professional. He is the founder and Group CEO of the Chocolate City Entertainment. He is well known as Founder of Chocolate City, Entertainment lawyer and regarded as the \"Simon Cowell\" in Nigerian Idol's first season. He won multiple awards during his career, including the International Young Music Entrepreneur of the Year award in 2007.\n\nAudu Maikori was born in Kaduna State to Adamu Maikori and Laiatu Gyet Maude. He was raised in Lagos and attended Adrao International School and King's College before obtaining his Law degree from the University of Jos in 1999. He later obtained his Bachelor of Laws (B.L) from the Law school Abuja. He is an alumnus of the M.I.T Sloan School of Management Boston.\n\nIn 1997, Audu and his friends at the University of Jos started discussing the possibilities of setting up a club. After a debate on the name of club, Audu suggested naming the club \"Chocolate City\" Chocolate City became the biggest rave around the Universities in northern Nigeria.\n\nDuring his National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) program Audu and his friend named Paul Okeugo founded the \"Guild of Artistes and Poets\" (GAP), a non-profit arts society. The GAP held its first meeting in April 2001. The GAP formed strategic alliances with the Ministry of Culture and Tourism, the British Council and held art exhibitions in partnership with the French Cultural Centre. The GAP expanded its reach to Jos, Plateau State and in Lagos. By 2005 the GAP had over 300 active members.\n\nAudu was called to the Nigerian Bar Association in January 2001 and started his legal career working as an Associate with the litigation-inclined firm of Chief Afe Babalola SAN & Co where he worked from 2001 to 2003. He worked as legal advisor to leasing company of Nigeria (a subsidiary of Bank of Industry), and company secretary of Abuja Markets Management Limited.\n\nIn 2006, Maikori was appointed Senior Legal consultant with CPCS Transcom International, where he worked on the legal and regulatory aspects of privatization transactions including the Nigeria Ports Authority, Nigerian Railway Corporation, unbundling and privatization of PHCN. He represented Nigeria in the UNIDROIT Sub-Committee of governmental experts for the preparation of a preliminary draft Protocol to the Convention on International Interests in Mobile Equipment on Matters specific to Space Assets in 2005.\n\nIn May 2007, Maikori co-organized the first Nigerian International Music Summit in March 2007. Over 400 music industry stakeholders drawn from all over Nigeria attended the event. Maikori is a member of the Chartered Institute of Arbitrators UK, International Association of Entertainment Lawyers, the Nigerian Bar Association and International Bar Association (IBA).\n\nIn 2002, he along with his brother Yahaya Maikori started \"Law Allianz\", a firm of legal practitioners based in Lagos and Abuja. He was selected as lead legal consultant for key national infrastructure projects including the Lagos Rail Mass Transit project (2008), Abuja Mass Transit project (2006-2008) and Kano Mass transit project in 2011. In March 2015, Audu resigned from 'Law Allianz' to concentrate on other business affairs.\n\nChocolate City Limited was registered in October 2003 but commenced business in 2005. Audu partnering with Paul Okeugo and his brother Yahaya Maikori as directors of the company. Later that year he alongside Paul Okeugo and two other partners produced first event under 'Chocolate City' banner in partnership with British American Tobacco, which held at the University of Maiduguri. Audu was introduced to a song called \"Na Ba Ka\" by an artist named Jeremiah Gyang's by label Six Foot Plus. In January 2005, Chocolate City signed Jeremiah Gyang under a recording and management contract and re-released the album 'Na Ba Ka'. In mid 2006, M.I was signed up to Chocolate City.\n\nIn 2012, after a corporate restructure, Chocolate City Group was formed with renowned businessman and lawyer Hakeem Bello-Osagie joining the board as Chairman. Four companies were formed to constitute the group namely Chocolate City Music, Chocolate City Media, Chocolate City Distribution and STM with Audu appointed as President of the Group. In\nMarch 2015, Audu announced the return of Jesse Jagz to Chocolate City. On 31 June 2015 Audu via Twitter announced his exit as CEO of Chocolate City Music and the appointment of M.I as the new CEO of Chocolate City Music, with label mate Ice Prince Zamani as the Vice President of the music label. Audu also announced the objectives for the 3 Chocolate City subsidiaries to include radio, television and film.\n\nOn 30 June 2015, Audu resigned as CEO of Chocolate City Music handing the reigns to former vice president of the label, M.I. Ice Prince was made the new vice president of Chocolate City..\n\nIn March 2018, Chocolate City launched CCX Lounge- a live music venue and lounge located at the prestigious Jabi Lake Mall, in Abuja. The 400 capacity venue is purpose-built for live music and its decor has been hailed as authentic Afro Nigerian by Mode Men Magazine.\n\nMaikori has received commendations for his work in developing the youth including being invited to Albania in 2008 to deliver a keynote speech at a seminar organized by the Albania Ministry of Youth and Employment, Minister of culture and British Council.\n\nIn 2010, Maikori was part of the \"Enough is Enough\" campaign which saw thousands of Nigerians protest against issues. In a four-hour protest, they marched to the National Assembly in Abuja. Maikori became the face of \"Enough is Enough\" after a police officer warned him to back down or be shot; Maikori refused to back down. He later led the other protesters to march on peacefully to make their protests heard by the National Assembly.\n\nSouthern Kaduna killings\n\nMaikori was very vocal against the Southern Kaduna killings by suspected Fulani herdsmen who killed over 250 men and women of Southern Kaduna origin. He was vocal about the seeming neglect by the Kaduna State Governor and The Federal Government of Nigeria, especially when the Kaduna State Governor Mallam El Rufai admitted to paying Fulani herdsmen compensation to \"stop\" them from killing the predominantly Christian Southern Kaduna population. In March 2017, he was arrested and arraigned by the Kaduna State (his state of origin) Governor over alleged incitement to violence . On 28th day of October, 2017, the Nigerian media was awash with headlines announcing the victory of Maikori in which forty million (N40,000,000) Naira was awarded to Maikori as damages against the Governor of Kaduna State, Mal. Nasir El-Rufai and the Nigerian Police Force. Maikori had brought a case of unlawful arrest and abuse of his fundamental human rights when Gov. El-Rufai caused his arrest and detention on February 17, 2017 [https://opera.pulse.ng/gist/audu-maikori-choc-city-boss-opens-up-on-being-manhandled-by-the-police-id3524029.html\n\nOn 13 February 2012, Audu Maikori was appointed to represent Nigerian Youth as a member of the Presidential Committee on the Subsidy Reinvestment and Empowerment Programme (SURE-P), the committee was formed by President Goodluck Jonathan himself. Maikori was the youngest member of the committee.He was placed in charge of the Graduate Internship Scheme which under his coordination grew the number of employed interns from 1,800 interns in 2013 to 22,000 interns by January 2015.\n\nIn May 2012 Maikori was elected to serve as a member of the board of COSON. Maikori was one of those behind the lobby for the NCC to officially appoint a CMO to collect royalties for songwriters and performers after 13 years of the NCC failing to settle the dispute between the MCSN and PMRS, both de-registered CMOs which had been embroiled in legal battles for supremacy for years. His appointment has been lauded as the right step in the right direction by music industry stakeholders.\n\nMaikori is also a public speaker and has traveled widely to speak on entrepreneurship and youth development. He was a speaker at the M.I.T Legatum Annual conference Visions and Ventures in 2013. In 2014 he was invited to speak at the Oxford University African Business conference. In 2016, he was selected as a panelist and moderator at The Global Africa Investment Summit which was hosted by President Paul Kagame in Kigali, Rwanda. According to YNaija magazine, Audu is one of the most powerful people's list of 2014 in Nigerian Entertainment in March 2014. In October 2015, Audu was appointed the Chairman of the Nigerian Digital Music Monitoring Group, associated with organizations Nigerian Copyright Commission, Nigerian Communications Commission, National Information Technology Development Agency, National Assembly and other relevant bodies to develop specific methods for the implementation of the resolutions of the Summit.\n\nIn September 2010, Maikori was made judge for the first season of Nigerian Idol alongside Yinka Davies and Jeffrey Daniel. The show proved to be a ratings success, but a year later he left the series to concentrate on other commitments, and was replaced by singer-publisher Charly Boy.\n\n\nIn 2008, at the inaugural edition of the United Kingdom Young Music Entrepreneur, Maikori was nominated to serve as a judge alongside four other British music industry judges, making him the African judge in the history of the competition.\n\nOn 29 June 2007, he won the International Young Music Entrepreneur of the Year (IYMEY) for his work with Chocolate City beating off international competition from Egypt, India, Indonesia, Latvia, Lithuania, Malaysia, Philippines, Poland and Tanzania.\n\nHe received special judges commendation as well as $15,000 Dollars in prize money.\n\nIn December 2011, Chocolate City Group, under Audu’s leadership, was named winner at the prestigious Africa Awards for Entrepreneurship in Nairobi, Kenya. Chocolate City was selected from over 3,300 applicants from 48 African countries to win prize of $50,000.\n\nIn November 2014, he was inducted as a Fellow of the Nigerian Leadership Institute(NLI) in November at the NLI-YALE Leadership Conference which held at the campus in New Haven.\n\n\nAudu has served as judge on numerous entrepreneurship and innovation competitions both locally and internationally which include:- \n\n"}
{"id": "38566829", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38566829", "title": "Badruddin Ahmad", "text": "Badruddin Ahmad\n\nBadruddin Ahmad (17 August 1912, Patiala, India - 19 March 1981, Karachi, Pakistan) was a pioneer in the field of Civil aviation. He was instrumental in the development of post-World War II aviation plans and supervised the construction of non-military runways and airports. The assets developed by Ahmad were transferred to the international civil authorities, leading to the advent of Civil Aviation as an industry.\n\nAhmad was perhaps best known for his association with the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) and in his roles as the Director General of Civil Aviation for the Government of Pakistan and Chief of Administration at the Pakistan Meteorological Department.\n\nAhmad graduated with a Master of Arts in Mathematics degree, with specialization in Advanced Astronomy from Allahabad University (then called 'University of Allahbad' and referred to as 'the Oxford of the East') on 30 January 1935.\n\nBadruddin Ahmed was instrumental in the events and planning that lead to the advent of the Civil Aviation industry.\n\nHe drafted government policy on the subsidization of flying clubs; licensed many non-military pilots, navigators and ground engineers; and progressed the selection and training of pilots and ground engineers for the Royal Indian Air Force.\n\nAfter partition of Indian subcontinent, Ahmed drafted the plans for Civil Aviation in Pakistan and conducted pioneer work in establishing the Department of Civil Aviation in Pakistan and was responsible for the coordination of the department's activities and international relations.\n\nHe was responsible for much work in the establishment of Pakistan International Airlines and was director in charge of the construction of various civil aviation works such as jet runways and airports.\n\nIn 1955 he was elected member of the British Institute of Transport. He was elected Chairman in 1959 by unanimous vote of the Joint Middle East and South East Asia Air Navigation Conference to lay down the rules for Jet Aircraft operations.\n\nIn 1959, he was awarded the Tamgha-e-Quaid-e-Azam, a prestigious civil decoration of Pakistan, for his contribution to the Civil Aviation development in Pakistan.\n\nIn 1960 he was promoted to Director General of Civil Aviation Authority.\n\nIn 1962 he was given the additional appointment of Chief of Administration with the status of Additional Director in the Pakistan Meteorological Department.\n\nDuring his career he represented Pakistan in four General Assemblies of the International Civil Aviation Organization and worked on defining international travel and carrier routes.\n\nIn addition to his distinguished career in government policy and Civil Aviation, Ahmad made contributions to the field of horticulture.\n\nHe was a fellow of the Royal Horticultural Society and the Royal Rose Society (now the Royal National Rose Society). Many non-indigenous plants in the Indian Subcontinent are attributed to him.\n\nHe was co-founder of the Horticultural Society of Pakistan and served as its Vice President from 1959 to 1961. During his tenure he introduced the rubber plant (\"Ficus elastica\") to Pakistan and received awards and recognition for Crotons and Carnation cultivations.\n\nAfter death, the British High Commission suggested that the Government of Pakistan dedicate a Horticultural Library to his name. A one million-pound memorial fund for books was offered. Alas, political turbulence in Pakistan at the time meant that the proposal never came to fruition.\n\nAhmad was born in Patiala, India to Khairuddin Ahmad and Fatima Begum Javed. His father was a Royal Veterinary Surgeon and his mother was a homemaker. He is the oldest of five siblings, three sisters and two younger brothers.\n\nA polyglot, Ahmad was able to speak, read and write in English, Persian, Urdu and Punjabi; and had working knowledge of Italian, French, Arabic and other languages.\n\nHe participated in the popular \"Brain Trust\" programme on Radio Pakistan, was a member of the Royal Photographic Society, and a lifetime member of the council of the Iqbal Academy.\n\nHe was married twice to Ms. Jeanne Ahmed and Ms. Maher UnNisah and had two sons, Saeed A Masood and Shafat A Mehmood.\n"}
{"id": "288262", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=288262", "title": "CSIRO", "text": "CSIRO\n\nThe Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation (CSIRO) is an independent Australian federal government agency responsible for scientific research. Its chief role is to improve the economic and social performance of industry for the benefit of the community. \n\nCSIRO works with leading organisations around the world. From its headquarters in Canberra, CSIRO maintains more than 50 sites across Australia and in France, Chile and the United States, employing about 5500 people.\n\nFederally funded scientific research began in Australia years ago. The Advisory Council of Science and Industry was established in 1916 but was hampered by insufficient available finance. In 1926 the research effort was reinvigorated by establishment of the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR), which strengthened national science leadership and increased research funding. CSIR grew rapidly and achieved significant early successes. In 1949 further legislated changes included re-naming the organisation as CSIRO.\n\nNotable developments by CSIRO have included the invention of atomic absorption spectroscopy, essential components of Wi-Fi technology, development of the first commercially successful polymer banknote, the invention of the insect repellent in Aerogard and the introduction of a series of biological controls into Australia, such as the introduction of myxomatosis and rabbit calicivirus for the control of rabbit populations.\n\nCSIRO is governed by a board appointed by the Australian Government, currently chaired by David Thodey. There are nine directors inclusive of the Chief Executive, presently Dr. Larry Marshall, who is responsible for management of the organisation.\n\nCSIRO is structured into research focus areas, services and infrastructure.\n\n\nCSIRO manages national research facilities and scientific infrastructure on behalf of the nation to assist with the delivery of research. The national facilities and specialised laboratories are available to both international and Australian users from industry and research.\nCSIRO manages a number of collections of animal and plant specimens that contribute to national and international biological knowledge. The National Collections contribute to taxonomic, genetic, agricultural and ecological research.\n\nA precursor to CSIRO, the Advisory Council of Science and Industry, was established in 1916 on the initiative of prime minister Billy Hughes. However, the Advisory Council struggled with insufficient funding during the First World War. In 1920 the Council was renamed the Commonwealth Institute of Science and Industry, and was led by George Handley Knibbs (1921–26), but continued to struggle financially.\n\nIn 1926 the Australian Parliament modified the principal Act for national scientific research (the \"Institute of Science and Industry Act 1920\") by passing \"The Science and Industry Research Act 1926\".\n\nThe new Act replaced the Institute with the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR). With encouragement from prime minister Stanley Bruce, strengthened national science leadership and increased research funding, CSIR grew rapidly and achieved significant early successes. The council was structured to represent the federal structure of government in Australia, and had state-level committees and a central council. In addition to an improved structure, CSIR benefited from strong bureaucratic management under George Julius, David Rivett, and Arnold Richardson. Research focused on primary and secondary industries. Early in its existence, CSIR established divisions studying animal health and animal nutrition. After the Great Depression, research was extended into manufacturing and other secondary industries.\n\nIn 1949 the Act was changed again and the entity name amended to the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation. The amendment enlarged and reconstituted the organisation and its administrative structure. Under Ian Clunies Ross as chairman, CSIRO pursued new areas such as radio astronomy and industrial chemistry. CSIRO still operates under the provisions of the 1949 Act in a wide range of scientific inquiry.\n\nSince 1949 CSIRO has expanded its activities to almost every field of primary, secondary and tertiary industry, including the environment, human nutrition, conservation, urban and rural planning, and water. It works with leading organisations around the world and maintains more than 50 sites across Australia and in France, Chile and the United States of America, employing about 5500 people.\n\nNotable inventions and breakthroughs by CSIRO include:\n\n\nCSIRO had a pioneering role in the scientific discovery of the universe through radio \"eyes\". A team led by Paul Wild built and operated (from 1948) the world’s first solar radiospectrograph, and from 1967 the radioheliograph at Culgoora in New South Wales. For three decades, the Division of Radiophysics had a world-leading role in solar research, attracting prominent solar physicists from around the world.\n\nCSIRO owned the first computer in Australia, CSIRAC, built as part of a project began in the Sydney Radiophysics Laboratory in 1947. The CSIR Mk 1 ran its first program in 1949, the fifth electronic computer in the world. It was over 1,000 times faster than the mechanical calculators available at the time. It was decommissioned in 1955 and recommissioned in Melbourne as CSIRAC in 1956 as a general purpose computing machine used by over 700 projects until 1964. The CSIRAC is the only surviving first-generation computer in the world.\n\nBetween 1965 and 1985, George Bornemissza of CSIRO's Division of Entomology founded and led the Australian Dung Beetle Project. Bornemissza, upon settling in Australia from Hungary in 1951, noticed that the pastureland was covered in dry cattle dung pads which did not seem to be recycled into the soil and caused areas of rank pasture which were unpalatable to the cattle. He proposed that the reason for this was that native Australian dung beetles, which had co-evolved alongside the marsupials (which produce dung very different in its composition from cattle), were not adapted to utilise cattle dung for their nutrition and breeding since cattle had only relatively recently been introduced to the continent in the 1880s. The Australian Dung Beetle Project sought, therefore, to introduce species of dung beetle from South Africa and Europe (which had co-evolved alongside bovids) in order to improve the fertility and quality of cattle pastures. Twenty-three species were successfully introduced throughout the duration of the project and also had the effect of reducing the pestilent bush fly population by 90%.\n\nCSIRO was the first Australian organisation to start using the Internet and was able to register the second-level domain csiro.au (as opposed to csiro.org.au or csiro.com.au). Guidelines were introduced in 1996 to regulate the use of the .au domain.\n\nWhen CSIR was formed in 1926, it was led initially by an Executive Committee of three people, two of whom were designated as the Chairman and the Chief Executive. Since then the roles and responsibilities of the Chair and Chief Executive have changed many times. From 1927 to 1986 the head of CSIR (and from 1949, CSIRO) was the Chairman, who was responsible for the management of the organisation, supported by the Chief Executive. From 1 July 1959 to 4 December 1986 CSIRO had no Chief Executive; the Chairman undertook both functions.\n\nIn 1986, when the Australian Government changed the structure of CSIRO to include a board of non-executive members plus the Chief Executive to lead CSIRO, the roles changed. The Chief Executive is now responsible for management of the organisation in accordance with the strategy, plans and policies approved by the CSIRO Board which, led by the Chair of the Board, is responsible to the Australian Government for the overall strategy, governance and performance of CSIRO.\n\nAs with its governance structure, the priorities and structure of CSIRO, and the teams and facilities that implement its research, have changed as Australia's scientific challenges have evolved.\n\nIn 2005 the CSIRO gained worldwide attention, including some criticism, for promoting a high-protein, low-carbohydrate diet of their own creation called \"Total Wellbeing Diet\". The CSIRO published the diet in a book which sold over half a million copies in Australia and over 100,000 overseas. The diet was criticised in an editorial by \"Nature\" for giving scientific credence to a \"fashionable\" diet sponsored by meat and dairy industries.\n\nIn the early 1990s, CSIRO radio astronomy scientists John O'Sullivan, Graham Daniels, Terence Percival, Diethelm Ostry and John Deane undertook research directed to finding a way to make wireless networks work as fast as wired networks within confined spaces such as office buildings. The technique they developed, involving a particular combination of forward error correction, frequency-domain interleaving, and multi-carrier modulation, became the subject of , which was granted on 23 January 1996.\n\nIn 1997 Macquarie University professor David Skellern and his colleague Neil Weste established the company Radiata, Inc., which took a nonexclusive licence to the CSIRO patent for the purpose of developing commercially viable integrated circuit devices implementing the patented technology.\n\nDuring this period, the IEEE 802.11 Working Group was developing the 802.11a wireless LAN standard. CSIRO did not participate directly in the standards process, however David Skellern was an active participant as secretary of the Working Group, and representative of Radiata. In 1998 it became apparent that the CSIRO patent would be pertinent to the standard. In response to a request from Victor Hayes of Lucent Technologies, who was Chair of the 802.11 Working Group, CSIRO confirmed its commitment to make non-exclusive licenses available to implementers of the standard on reasonable and non-discriminatory terms.\n\nIn 1999, Cisco Systems, Inc. and Broadcom Corporation each invested A$4 million in Radiata, representing an 11% stake for each investor and valuing the company at around A$36 million. In September 2000, Radiata demonstrated a chip set complying with the recently finalised IEEE 802.11a Wi-Fi standard, and capable of handling transmission rates of up to 54 Mbit/s, at a major international exhibition.\n\nIn November 2000, Cisco acquired Radiata in exchange for US$295 million in Cisco common stock with the intention of incorporating the Radiata Baseband Processor and Radio chips into its Aironet family of wireless LAN products. Cisco subsequently took a large write-down on the Radiata acquisition, following the 2001 telecoms crash, and in 2004 it shut down its internal development of wireless chipsets based on the Radiata technology in order to focus on software development and emerging new technologies.\n\nControversy over the CSIRO patent arose in 2006 after the organisation won an injunction against Buffalo Technology in an infringement suit filed in Federal Court in the Eastern District of Texas. The injunction was subsequently suspended on appeal, with the Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit finding that the judge in Texas should have allowed a trial to proceed on Buffalo’s challenge to the validity of the CSIRO patent. In 2007, CSIRO declined to provide an assurance to the IEEE that it would not sue companies which refused to take a license for use in 802.11n-compliant devices, while at the same time continuing to defend legal challenges to the validity of the patent brought by Intel, Dell, Microsoft, Hewlett-Packard and Netgear.\n\nIn April 2009, Hewlett-Packard broke ranks with the rest of the industry becoming the first to reach a settlement of its dispute with CSIRO. This agreement was followed quickly by settlements with Microsoft, Fujitsu and Asus and then Dell, Intel, Nintendo, Toshiba, Netgear, Buffalo, D-Link, Belkin, SMC, Accton, and 3Com.\n\nThe controversy grew after CSIRO sued US carriers AT&T, Verizon and T-Mobile in 2010, with the organisation being accused of being \"Australia's biggest patent troll\", a wrathful \"patent bully\", and of imposing a \"WiFi tax\" on American innovation.\n\nFurther fuel was added to the controversy after a settlement with the carriers, worth around $229 million, was announced in March 2012. Encouraged in part by an announcement by the Australian Minister for Tertiary Education, Skills Science and Research, Senator Chris Evans, an article in Ars Technica portrayed CSIRO as a shadowy organisation responsible for US consumers being compelled to make \"a multimillion dollar donation\" on the basis of a questionable patent claiming \"decades old\" technology. The resulting debate became so heated that the author was compelled to follow up with a defence of the original article. An alternative view was also published on The Register, challenging a number of the assertions made in the Ars Technica piece.\n\nTotal income to CSIRO from the patent is currently estimated at nearly $430 million. On 14 June 2012, the CSIRO inventors received the European Patent Office (EPO) European Inventor Award (EIA), in the category of \"Non-European Countries\".\n\nOn 14 July 2011, Greenpeace activists vandalised a crop of GM wheat, circumventing the scientific trials being undertaken. Greenpeace was forced to pay reparations to CSIRO of $280,000 for the criminal damage, and were accused by the sentencing judge, Justice Hilary Penfold, of cynically using junior members of the organisation with good standing to avoid custodial sentences, while the offenders were given 9-month suspended sentences.\n\nFollowing the attack Greenpeace criticised CSIRO for a close relationship with industry that had led to an increase in genetically modified crops, even though a core aim of CSIRO is Cooperative Research \"working hand in hand with industry [to] build partnerships and engage with industry to generate impact\".\n\nOn 25 November 2009, a debate was held in the Australian Senate concerning the alleged involvement of the CSIRO and the Labor government in censorship. The debate was called for by opposition parties after evidence came to light that a paper critical of carbon emissions trading was being suppressed. At the time, the Labor government was trying to get such a scheme through the Senate. After the debate, the Science Minister, Kim Carr, was forced to release the paper, but when doing so in the Senate he also delivered a letter from the CEO of the CSIRO, Megan Clark, which attacked the report's author and threatened him with unspecified punishment. The author of the paper, Clive Spash, was cited in the press as having been bullied and harassed, and later gave a radio interview about this. In the midst of the affair, CSIRO management had considered releasing the paper with edits that Nature reported would be \"tiny\". Spash claimed the changes actually demanded amounted to censorship and resigned. He later posted on his website a document detailing the text that CSIRO management demanded be deleted; by itself, this document forms a coherent set of statements criticising emissions trading without any additional wording needed. In subsequent Senate Estimates hearings during 2010, Senator Carr and Clark went on record claiming the paper was originally stopped from publication solely due to its low quality not meeting CSIRO standards. At the time of its attempted suppression, the paper had been accepted for publication in an academic journal, New Political Economy, which in 2010 had been ranked by the Australian Research Council as an 'A class' publication. In an ABC radio interview, Spash called for a Senate enquiry into the affair and the role played by senior management and the Science Minister. After these events, the \"Sydney Morning Herald\" reported that \"Questions are being raised about the closeness of BHP Billiton and the CSIRO under its chief executive, Megan Clark\". After his resignation, an unedited version of the paper was released by Spash as a discussion paper, and later published as an academic journal article.\n\nOn 11 April 2013, the \"Sydney Morning Herald\" ran a story on how CSIRO had \"duped\" the Swiss-based pharmaceutical giant Novartis into purchasing an anti-counterfeit technology for its vials of injectable Voltaren. The invention was marketed by a small Australian company called DataTrace DNA as a method of identifying fake vials, on the basis that a unique tracer code developed by CSIRO was embedded in the product. However, the code sold to Novartis for more than A$2M was apparently not unique, and was based on a \"cheap tracer ... bought in bulk from a Chinese distributor\". Novartis was contractually bound not to reverse-engineer the tracer to verify its uniqueness. The \"Sydney Morning Herald\" report alleges that this was done with the knowledge of key CSIRO personnel.\n\nCSIRO has since conducted a full review of the allegations and found no evidence to support them.\n\nIn recent years the CSIRO has fallen under the spotlight for allegedly exhibiting a culture of workplace bullying and harassment. Former CSIRO employees started to surface with experiences of workplace bullying and other unreasonable behaviour by current and former CSIRO staff members. CSIRO took the allegations seriously and responded to the articles on a number of occasions.\n\nThe shadow minister for innovation, industry, science and research, Sophie Mirabella, wrote to the government requesting it establish an inquiry. Mirabella said she is aware of as many as 100 cases of alleged workplace harassment. On 20 July 2012 Comcare issued CSIRO with an Improvement Notice with regard to handling and management of workplace misconduct/code of conduct type investigations and allegations. On 24 June 2013 Mirabella advised the Australian House of Representatives that in relation to the worker's compensation claim for psychological injuries of ex-CSIRO employee, Martin Williams, which was vigorously defended by Comcare on the advice of the CSIRO, that CSIRO officers had provided false testimony on no less than 128 occasions under oath when the matter went before the Administrative Appeals Tribunal. Mirabella stated, \"even in establishing the framework for this inquiry it is obvious there's an inappropriate 'hands on' approach by CSIRO.\"\n\nIn response to the allegations Clark commissioned Dennis Pearce, who is assisted by an investigation team from HWL Ebsworth Lawyers, to conduct an independent investigation into allegations of workplace bullying and other unreasonable behaviour. Mirabella continued to question the independence of the investigation. The first stage of the investigation is scheduled to publish its findings at the end of July 2013, and the final stage is scheduled to be complete by February 2014.\n\nIn August 2015 the CSIRO discontinued its annual July and August survey, conducted over the previous five years, polling to create a long-term view of how Australians viewed global warming and their support for action. In the previous 2013 poll, 86 per cent agreed with the statement that climate change was occurring and only 7.6 per cent disagreed.\n\nOn the 11th February 2016, Dr Larry Marshall – a former venture capitalist with Southern Cross Venture Holdings, who had been appointed CEO of the CSIRO on the 1st January 2015, caused an international outcry after describing Australia’s national climate change discussion as “more like religion than science,” a week after announcing hundreds of job cuts to the organisation that will reduce the effectiveness of its climate research team.\n\nIn “an open letter to the Australian Government and CSIRO”, 2,800 of the leading climate scientists from 60 countries say the announcement of cuts to the CSIRO’s Oceans and Atmosphere research program has alarmed the global climate research community. They say the decision shows a lack of insight and a misunderstanding of the importance of the depth and significance of Australian contributions to global and regional climate research.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55883679", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55883679", "title": "Car Dogs", "text": "Car Dogs\n\nCar Dogs is a film which stars George Lopez, Dash Mihok, Patrick J. Adams, Octavia Spencer, and Josh Hopkins. The film is set in a car dealership where, in a single day, salesmen have to sell more cars than they ever have done.\nThe story is set at the Chamberlain Auto Group which is run by Malcolm Chamberlain (played by Chris Mulkey). He has his son Mark working for him as the GM. Malcolm is a ruthless and manipulative car dealer. He offers his son a major part of a new store if he and the team of car salesmen can move 35 cars in a day, and they have to do it by 5pm. The sales manager (played by Josh Hopkins) has his eyes on the new dealership for himself and is playing dirty tricks behind Mark's back.\n\nThe film came about as a result of Mark Edward King who was a student of Adam Collis. He wrote a short film script about car salesmen at a dealership who were trying to sell as many cars in a single day, more than they had ever done. King was encouraged by Collis to expand it into a script for a full feature. The film was made with the assistance of film students.\n"}
{"id": "6871512", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6871512", "title": "Charles Taylor Master Mechanic Award", "text": "Charles Taylor Master Mechanic Award\n\nThe Charles Taylor Master Mechanic Award is an honor presented by the United States Federal Aviation Administration in honor of Charles Taylor, the first aviation mechanic in powered flight. The award recognizes the lifetime accomplishments of senior aviation mechanics. Taylor served as the Wright brothers' mechanic and is credited with designing and building the engine for their first successful aircraft.\n\nTo be eligible for the award, a person must:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3359741", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3359741", "title": "Comics &amp; Games Retailer", "text": "Comics &amp; Games Retailer\n\nComics & Games Retailer was the longest-running periodical serving retailers who sell comic books, collectible card games, and role-playing games until it ceased publication in 2007. The headquarters was in Iola, Wisconsin.\n\nLaunched in April 1992 by Krause Publications (later acquired by F+W Publications Inc. in 2002), the free-to-retailers monthly magazine was a spinoff from that company’s consumer magazine, \"Comics Buyer's Guide\".\n\nThe publication was originally known as \"Comics Retailer\", and in 2002 changed to \"Comics & Games Retailer\". Early columnists included many retailers and experts on retailing, including Bruce Costa, Brian Hibbs, Scott Haring, Preston Sweet, Bob Gray, and Harry Friedman. Hired in 1993, its editor of longest tenure, John Jackson Miller, added “Market Beat,” a section of retailer sales reports; coverage of the game industry; and statistical analysis of comics and game sales.\n\nGiven its availability only to those working behind the scenes, the magazine’s opinion columns have often been the flashpoint of both controversy and new ideas for the hobby. In 1996, business researchers from the University of Kentucky and Rutgers University joined with the magazine to conduct a study of retailer attitudes toward distributors and publishers. In 2001, columnist Joe Field suggested in the magazine that Diamond launch a Free Comic Book Day – which later became an industry tradition. In 2002, columnist Brian Hibbs filed a class-action suit on behalf of retailers against Marvel Comics over its trade terms. As a consequence he moved his \"Titling at Windmills\" column, first to Newsarama then to Comic Book Resources. His last column in \"Comics Retailer\" was in the May 1992 issue. The first one hundred installments of \"Titling at Windmills\" have been collected in book form by IDW Publishing \n\nFollowing Miller’s departure in 2003 to begin a comics-writing career, the magazine was run by separate editors for each product category until 2005, with the naming of James Mishler as its sole managing editor. The last issue of the magazine, 185, appeared in August 2007.\n\n"}
{"id": "25990417", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25990417", "title": "Daoud Bokhary", "text": "Daoud Bokhary\n\nDaoud Bokhary (, , also spelled Daud Bokhary; born c. 1919) is a retired Hong Kong businessman.\n\nBokhary was born near Peshawar in the North-West Frontier Province of British India (today part of Pakistan). He served in the British Indian Army for four years as a logistics expert, and came to Hong Kong with the army on the first British ship after the surrender of Japan ended the occupation of Hong Kong. He briefly returned home to run a coal mine, but, fearing for his wife's safety during the independence of Pakistan in 1947, returned to Hong Kong with her and their first son soon after.\n\nBokhary began his career in Hong Kong managing a dockside godown, a position he found thanks to his army logistics experience. He received accolades and promotions for his ability to keep his workers happy, and his skilled handling of the growth in ship traffic resulting from the Communist Party of China's takeover of Shanghai. He eventually came to manage an entire wharf, and with his increased responsibilities, began taking night classes in accountancy at the University of Hong Kong. He retired from his wharf position in the 1970s.\n\nFor his second career, Bokhary went into day trading, and together with his elder son founded his own company, Bokhary Securities; he wanted to be his own boss, and believed that his religion and ethnicity would keep him out of managerial positions at the big financial corporations which then dominated securities trading in Hong Kong.\n\nOutside of his work, Bokhary is engaged in various philanthropic activities. He pays for the upkeep of a mosque in his hometown in Pakistan, and also served as a treasurer on the council of the Diocesan Girls' School, an Anglican school, and on one occasion helped it out of financial difficulties. However, he prefers not to have any buildings named after him in return for his donations.\n\nBokhary holds Pakistani nationality. He is critical of the Pakistani government's corruption and poor governance, noting that overseas Pakistanis such as himself achieve successes which they could never match at home due to the lack of an environment which rewards hard work. When asked by a journalist whether he invested in Pakistan, he reportedly responded, \"Having conversed with me for an hour, do you really take me to be such a damned fool?\"\n\nThough his career development has been limited by his ethnic background, Bokhary takes a philosophical attitude towards the discrimination faced by him and other South Asians in Hong Kong, and feels gratitude for being allowed to settle in Hong Kong. He also admonishes younger South Asian immigrants for their anti-discrimination activism, and suggests that they would feel less affected by racism if they focused more on learning about religion.\n\nBokhary's wife died in the 1970s. He formerly owned land in Peshawar near his hometown, but sold it when he realised that neither he nor his sons wanted to settle in Pakistan.\n\nSyed Bagh Ali Shah Bokhary is Daoud Bokhary's eldest son. He inherited the brokerage business when Daoud Bokhary retired. Bagh Ali's daughter Amina Mariam Bokhary was notable for her legal problems in Hong Kong.\n\nDaoud Bokhary's youngest son Syed Kemal Shah Bokhary is one of the three permanent judges of the Court of Final Appeal in Hong Kong.\n"}
{"id": "716853", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=716853", "title": "Delivery (commerce)", "text": "Delivery (commerce)\n\nDelivery is the process of transporting goods from a source location to a predefined destination. There are different delivery types. Cargo (physical goods) are primarily delivered via roads and railroads on land, shipping lanes on the sea and airline networks in the air. Certain specialized goods may be delivered via other networks, such as pipelines for liquid goods, power grids for electrical power and computer networks such as the Internet or broadcast networks for electronic information.\n\nThe general process of delivering goods is known as distribution. The study of effective processes for delivery and disposition of goods and personnel is called logistics. Firms that specialize in delivering commercial goods from point of production or storage to point of sale are generally known as distributors, while those that specialize in the delivery of goods to the consumer are known as delivery services. Postal, courier, and relocation services also deliver goods for commercial and private interests.\n\nMost consumer goods are delivered from a point of production (factory or farm) through one or more points of storage (warehouses) to a point of sale (retail store), where the consumer buys the good and is responsible for its transportation to point of consumption. There are many variations on this model for specific types of goods and modes of sale. Products sold via catalogue or the Internet may be delivered directly from the manufacturer or warehouse to the consumer's home, or to an automated delivery booth. Small manufacturers may deliver their products directly to retail stores without warehousing.\n\nSome manufacturers maintain factory outlets which serve as both warehouse and retail store, selling products directly to consumers at wholesale prices (although many retail stores falsely advertise as factory outlets). Building, construction, landscaping and like materials are generally delivered to the consumer by a contractor as part of another service. Some highly perishable or hazardous goods, such as radioisotopes used in medical imaging, are delivered directly from manufacturer to consumer.\n\nHome delivery is often available for fast food and other convenience products, e.g. pizza delivery. Sometimes home delivery of supermarket goods is possible. A milk float is a small battery electric vehicle (BEV), specifically designed for the delivery of fresh milk. A new form of delivery is emerging on the horizon of the internet age: Delivery by the crowd e.g. crowd delivery. In this concept an individual not necessarily contracted by the vendor performs the delivery of goods to the destination. Sometimes, private courier companies will also deliver consumer goods on a regular basis for companies like E-commerce businesses.\n\nThe consumer demand for Supermarkets to deliver to their door created the need for a mixed temperature controlled vehicle on 3.5T chassis. These vehicle bodies were initially built with the traditional GRP sandwich panels but as more damage resistant lightweight materials with better insulation properties have become available companies have been developing Advanced Home Delivery Vehicles. The 2012 Commercial Vehicle Show in the UK saw the new JDC PolyBilt design, one of the latest of these \"Plastic\" bodies that can also be recycled at the end of its service life unlike the traditional GRP which ends up as landfill.\n\nVehicles are often specialized to deliver different types of goods. On land, semi-trailers are outfitted with various trailers such as box trailers, flatbeds, car carriers, tanks and other specialized trailers, while railroad trains include similarly specialized cars. Armored cars, dump trucks and concrete mixers are examples of vehicles specialized for delivery of specific types of goods. On the sea, merchant ships come in various forms, such as cargo ships, oil tankers and fishing boats. Freight aircraft are used to deliver cargo.\n\nOften, passenger vehicles are used for delivery of goods. These include buses, vans, pick-ups, cars (e.g., for mail or pizza delivery), motorcycles and bicycles (e.g., for newspaper delivery). A significant amount of freight is carried in the cargo holds of passenger ships and aircraft. Everyday travelers, known as a casual courier, can also be used to deliver goods.\n\nDelivery to remote, primitive or inhospitable areas may be accomplished using small aircraft, snowmobiles, horse-drawn vehicles, dog sleds, pack animals, on foot, or by a variety of other transport methods.\n\nSome products are delivered to consumers on a periodic schedule. Historically, home delivery of many goods was much more common in urban centres of the developed world. At the beginning of the 20th century, perishable farm items such as milk, eggs and ice, were delivered weekly or even daily to customers by local farms. Milkmen delivered milk and other farm produce. With the advent of home refrigeration and better distribution methods, these products are today largely delivered through the same retail distribution systems as other food products. Icemen delivered ice for iceboxes until the popularization of home refrigerator rendered them obsolete in most places. Similarly, laundry was once picked up and washed at a commercial laundry before being delivered to middle-class homes until the appearance of the washing machine and dryer (the lower classes washed their own and the upper classes had live-in servants). Likewise deliveries of coal and wood for home heating were more common until they were replaced in many areas by natural gas, oil, or electric heating. Some products, most notably home heating oil, are still delivered periodically. Human blood may be delivered to hospitals on a periodic schedule.\n\nMilk delivery continued until the mid-twentieth century across North America. For example, the last milk delivery by horse-and-wagon in Edmonton was in 1961. Milkman jokes continue in circulation long after. Related lines of Jeannie C. Riley's 1968 hit song \"Harper Valley PTA\" say:\n\"There's old Bobby Taylor sitting there, and seven times he's asked me for a date,And Mrs. Taylor sure seems to use a lot of ice whenever he's away.\"\n"}
{"id": "45718525", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45718525", "title": "Dent (conference)", "text": "Dent (conference)\n\nDent (known previously as Dent the Future) is an annual conference in Sun Valley, Idaho, founded by Jason Preston and Steve Broback. Participants gather in March to \"explore the magic and science of visionary leadership and groundbreaking success.\" Dent 2016 will be held on March 20–23, 2016.\n\nPresenters at Dent have included:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23803882", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23803882", "title": "Eduardo Castro-Wright", "text": "Eduardo Castro-Wright\n\nEduardo Castro-Wright is the former Vice Chairman and CEO of the Walmart’s Global eCommerce and Global Sourcing businesses, he retired on July 1, 2012. Castro-Wright previously served as the President and CEO of Wal-Mart Stores USA, the United States division of the world's third largest corporation by revenue according to the 2008 Fortune 500.\n\nCastro-Wright was born in Ecuador and is the second oldest of eight siblings in a tightly knit retailing family. His grandfather founded a supermarket more than 50 years ago that became that nation's largest chain. He has three daughters with his wife Fabiola De Castro.\n\nOne of his nephews, Eduardo Rodriguez Castro actually lives in Ecuador and he is very poor\n\nCastro-Wright graduated in 1975 from Texas A&M University with a degree in mechanical engineering. He rebuilt RJR Nabisco's Latin American operations during the KKR era. In the late 1990s, he ran all of the Asia-Pacific division for Honeywell. He then joined Walmart in 2001 as president and COO (Chief Operations Officer) of Walmart Mexico and was promoted to President and CEO, of Walmart U.S. in 2003. In 2004, Castro-Wright led sales of Wal-Mex's 700 outlets to rise 11 percent to $12.5 billion and net income to grow 36 percent. He also served as COO for a short period until being named president and CEO of Walmart U.S. in 2005. He was promoted to Vice Chairman in 2008. In August 2010, he was named one of the Top 25 Multilatinos by Latin Business Chronicle.\n\nOn April 21, 2012, \"The New York Times\" reported that Castro-Wright was implicated in a vast corruption scheme while serving as head of Walmart's Mexico unit. The \"Times\" reported that he approved paying millions of dollars in bribes to Mexican officials to secure quick approval of permits to build new stores.\n"}
{"id": "19931192", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19931192", "title": "Elisabeth Berge", "text": "Elisabeth Berge\n\nElisabeth Berge (born 27 November 1954) is a Norwegian businessperson and civil servant.\n\nShe graduated with the siv.øk. degree from the Norwegian School of Economics and Business Administration in 1978, and as Master of Arts in Economics from the University of California in 1979. She worked in the Ministry of Petroleum and Energy from 1981 to 1990, since 1986 as a deputy under-secretary of State. She then worked in Statoil from 1990 to 2004, since 2001 as chief of communications. In 2004 she was appointed permanent under-secretary of State in the Ministry of Petroleum and Energy.\n\nShe was a member of the board of Statnett from 1992 to 2000 and the Kavli Foundation from 1999 to 2004.\n"}
{"id": "49140301", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49140301", "title": "Equity (film)", "text": "Equity (film)\n\nEquity is a 2016 American financial thriller film directed by Meera Menon, written by Amy Fox and starring Anna Gunn, James Purefoy, Sarah Megan Thomas, and Alysia Reiner.\n\nThe film premiered In Competition at the 2016 Sundance Film Festival on January 25, 2016. Shortly before its premiere, it was acquired for theatrical distribution by Sony Pictures Classics and was released in the United States on July 29, 2016 to positive critical reviews.\n\nNaomi Bishop (Anna Gunn) is a senior investment banker who deals with IPOs. After her latest project is undervalued she faces professional setbacks including clients losing confidence in her work. To bounce back she is hired to handle the IPO for Cachet, a privacy company with a social networking platform. \n\nAround the same time Naomi bumps into Samantha Ryan (Alysia Reiner), an old college classmate who now works as a public attorney. Unbeknownst to Naomi, Samantha is investigating Naomi's on-again, off-again boyfriend Michael Connor (James Purefoy), a broker at the same firm as Naomi who Samantha suspects is involved in insider trading. Michael tries to get information from Naomi about Cachet but fails. \n\nWhile doing due diligence, Naomi learns from Marin, one of the coders, that Cachet is hackable. Despite having a nagging feeling that something is wrong, the numbers check out and Naomi continues to try to sell the shares of the company to investors. Michael, who has had no new insider trading tips to pass on to his friends at investment firm Titanite, tries unsuccessfully to hack into Naomi's phone.\n\nVice President Erin Manning (Sarah Megan Thomas), Naomi's assistant on the IPO, learns that Marin has been fired. To warn Naomi of this, she goes to Michael's home after not being able to reach Naomi and ends up leaking the information to him in the hope that he will be able to get her a promotion, something Naomi has been unable to do for her. Michael leaks the tips to his friends at Titanite and then sends the story to an old college roommate who is a tech journalist.\n\nNaomi figures out that it was Erin who betrayed her, based on her having a green pen, the same type of pen that Michael uses. When the shares open, confidence is lost and the company loses a third of its value on the first day of trading. \n\nMichael changes jobs to Titanite, neglecting to take Erin with him. Naomi is fired, while Erin assumes her position. Unable to crack the case from the outside, Samantha interviews for a high-paying corporate position, saying that she is in it for the money using words from a speech she heard Naomi give at an alumni event.\n\n\nMeera Menon was brought on board to direct in March 2015. Anna Gunn signed on to star in June 2015 with James Purefoy joining shortly after.\n\n\"Equity\" grossed $1.6 million in the United States and Canada and $65,116 in other territories for a worldwide total of $1.7 million. Its widest release was in 255 theaters.\n\n\"Equity\" has received positive reviews from critics. On review aggregator site Rotten Tomatoes the film has an approval rating of 81%, based on 84 reviews, with an average rating of 6.4/10. The site's critical consensus reads, \"Equity\" brings a welcome change of perspective to the financial thriller genre, along with a nuanced story and a terrific cast led by a powerful effort from Anna Gunn.\" Metacritic, which assigns a weighted average rating to reviews from mainstream critics, gives the film a score of 68 out of 100, based on 29 reviews, indicating \"generally favorable reviews\".\n\nIgnatiy Vishnevetsky of \"The A.V. Club\" wrote: \"\"Equity\" may not be the fanciest or flashiest of financial thrillers—more like off-brand David Fincher or Steven Soderbergh—but it gets the job done. Its major players are all women trying to make careers in boys’ club professions [...]; that's all the motivation the movie offers and perhaps all that it really needs. It skips past the usual handwringing over the temptations of capitalist wealth and just gets right to the risk-taking and double-crossing, assuming (rightly) that viewers don't need a character to have a backstory, a tragic secret, and a dead spouse, best friend, or parent to understand why they'd do anything to hold on to a career.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "31849967", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31849967", "title": "Expander System Sweden AB", "text": "Expander System Sweden AB\n\nExpander System Sweden AB is a Swedish company that designs, manufactures, and sells a pivot-pin system for commercial heavy machinery and equipment. Their headquarters is in Åtvidaberg, Sweden. It was founded in 1986 by Everth and Roger Svensson. The Expander Group includes two subsidiaries, Expander Americas Inc, in the United States, and Expander Deutschland GmbH, in Germany.\n\nThe expander system consists of patented products that are intended to take the place of conventional pivot pins in heavy machinery and equipment. Conventional pivot pins may wear in a way that requires a costly repair process for pivot lug holes, called line boring. The expander system uses expansion sleeves that can eliminate this wear problem.\n\n"}
{"id": "42747282", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42747282", "title": "Freakonomics Radio", "text": "Freakonomics Radio\n\nFreakonomics Radio is an American public radio program which discusses socioeconomic issues for a general audience. The show is a spin-off of the 2005 book \"Freakonomics\". Journalist Stephen Dubner hosts the show, with economist Steven Levitt as a regular guest. The show is also distributed as a podcast, and is among the most popular on iTunes. Created in September 2010, it is a weekly podcast. \nFrom July 2018, production moved from WNYC to Stitcher Radio ; Alison Craiglow is the Executive Producer. The staff of \"Freakonomics Radio\" includes Greg Rippin, Greg Rosalsky and Harry Huggins. \"Freakonomics\" is released at 11 p.m. on Wednesday each week.\n\nA gameshow episode \"Tell Me Something I Don't Know\" was broadcast on October 6, 2014. The show was hosted at The Greene Space in New York City. In the show, selected audience members presented their ideas to host Stephen Dubner and a panel of three celebrity judges. The winner of the episode was a 12-year-old who competed alongside former New York Governor Patterson.\n"}
{"id": "27976545", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27976545", "title": "Free and open-source ATS", "text": "Free and open-source ATS\n\nApplicant Tracking Software is widely available and often free, but rarely open-source. Active Open Source ATS projects are summarised below;\n\nOpen Source ATS\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54925660", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54925660", "title": "Gazmend Demi", "text": "Gazmend Demi\n\nGazmend \"Gaz\" Demi is an Albanian businessman who is the current president of Albanian football club Partizani.\n"}
{"id": "15152047", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15152047", "title": "Glen Tonche", "text": "Glen Tonche\n\nGlen Tonche is an estate atop Mount Tonche, in Ulster County, near Shokan, New York.\n\nThe estate's house was built in 1928 as the summer family compound of American businessman Raymond Pitcairn, whose family founded PPG Industries.\n\nUnder Pitcairn ownership the compound on was largely made up of two main wings connected by a covered walkway. The balance of Mount Tonche over is under restrictive preservation.\n\nThe property as a whole reflects a blend of Tudor-style architecture with some Arts-and-Crafts influences. The south wing was a pentagon configuration housing the main kitchen, two servants' quarters, six guest bedrooms, six full baths, and a massive glass-enclosed mountaintop porch. The wing also featured a 29-by-36-foot dining hall capable of seating 100 or more guests. The north wing housed the library, eleven bedrooms, seven full baths and two-and-one-half baths, three-room servant's quarters, as well as a great room with floor-to-ceiling windows and vaulted ceilings.\n\nThe estate remained in the Pitcairn family until it was put on the market in 1995 for $3.9 million, then $2.9 million, then in late 1998 down to $1.95 million, at which time it was sold to photographer and musician Randall Wallace.\n\nThe first record recorded at Allaire was \"Harvest Home\" by Jay Ungar in 1999. The studio was then substantially renovated and reopened in 2001 and has remained open since then where rock musician David Bowie recorded his album \"Heathen\" (2002). and his next one, \"Reality\" (2003) In 2001, singer-songwriter Norah Jones recorded her debut album \"Come Away with Me\" (2002). During five weeks in late 2006, the rock band Rush recorded the album \"Snakes & Arrows\" (2007).\n\nReconfigured from the Pitcairn ownership the main house included nineteen bedrooms with three separate apartments on the property. The estate was listed on the market in 2007/2008 with an asking price of $13 million. The property returned on the market in June 2009 at for a price of $8,850,000 Unsold it was removed from the market. In June 2012, Wallace indicated that he would again be relisting the property for sale in the near future for $8 million.\n\nIn March 2016, Glen Tonche was permanently withdrawn from the market and restored and reopened as the recording studio Allaire Studios, managed by its owner Randall Wallace and his wife Janet who live on-site.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30128145", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30128145", "title": "Gérard Lopez (businessman)", "text": "Gérard Lopez (businessman)\n\nGérard López Fojaca (born 27 December 1971) is an entrepreneur-investor and an active Luxembourgish-Spanish businessman that invests in new technologies, energy sector and in the sports industry.\n\nIn the 1990s, Lopez cofounded Mangrove Capital Partners, one of the top three Tech investor in Europe. Alongside Éric Lux, he created The Genii Group. From 2009 to 2015, Lopez was President of the Formula 1 Lotus F1 Team and is still one of its minority shareholder and administrator. He is chairman of Genii Capital and is also CEO of Nekton, an investment company in the energy sector, where he spends most of his time. Lopez has been the President of Luxemburg CS Fola Esch football club since 2007.\n\nLopez graduated from Miami University in integrated traffic management systems and in operational management. He also has a degree in Asian Art. \nAt age 22, he began managing a number of companies among which \"Icon Solutions\", a pioneer society in internet development, and the leasing company \"ProLease\". Lopez is an active investor in various types of private funds, ranging from early-stage technology companies to real estate investments.\n\nWith Mark Tluszcz and Hans Jurgen Schmitz, he founded Mangrove Capital Partners, a Luxembourg-based leading venture capital company specialized in future oriented technologies. Mangrove Capital Partners was one of the first investors in Skype before selling its share to Ebay in 2005 for 3.2 billion dollars.\n\nHe founded with Eric Lux in 2008 Genii Capital, a finance consulting and investment managing firm. Lopez sits on the board of Directors of \"WIx\", Zink Imaging, Lotus F1 Team and is also a member of the Planning Advisory Committee of the University of Miami Business School.\n\nIn 2015, he founded Nekton, an investment company and brokerage in energy field, active in South America, Africa, Asia and Eastern Europe\n\nAs a sports fan, Lopez got into car racing through operations made with Eric Lux and \"Gravity Sport Management\" in particular. He also participated in long-distance races with Gravity Racing International's team.\nIn 2009, he bought out the Formula 1 Lotus F1 Team making Genii Capital the majority owner of the team. If the stable possessed very few sponsors at the beginning, Microsoft, Unilever and Coca-Cola soon became team partners.\n\nThrough \"Kick Partners\" and \"Mangrove Sport Business Intelligence\", Lopez also takes care of the image and the transfers of football players. The businessman has also been since 2007 the President of the CS Fola Esch, the football club in which he used to play as a teenager.\nWith Marc Ingla, both men have been associates for years in \"Kick Partners\" and \"Mangrove Sport Business Intelligence\" activities. Leading figure of the FC Barcelona in the 2000s and former Marketing Director of the football club, Marc Ingla coordinated FC Barcelona’s professional team sponsoring by Nike.\n\nFor one year, Lopez and his team are studying the French Ligue 1 championship for an acquisition. In October 2016, Lopez entered into exclusive talks with President Michel Seydoux for the acquisition of the Lille OSC football club He eventually succeeded and become the majority owner of the French Ligue 1 club.\n\nLopez owns what is considered by some to be one of the best car collections in the world. It has been featured in \"Top Gear\" magazine and in local newspapers.\n"}
{"id": "1250565", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1250565", "title": "Howard Buffett", "text": "Howard Buffett\n\nHoward Homan Buffett (August 13, 1903 – April 30, 1964) was an American businessman, investor, and politician. He was a four-term Republican United States Representative for the state of Nebraska. He was the father of Warren Buffett, the famed American billionaire businessman and investor.\n\nHoward Buffett was born in Omaha, Nebraska to Henrietta Duvall Buffett and Ernest P. Buffett, owners of a grocery business. Ernest P. Buffett's paternal ancestors hail from northern Scandinavia. Buffett attended public schools and graduated from the University of Nebraska in Lincoln, Nebraska in 1925. While a student, Buffett was a brother of the Alpha Sigma Phi Fraternity. He married Leila Stahl on December 27, 1925. The Buffetts were active members of Dundee Presbyterian Church. After failing to secure a job in the family grocery business, he started a small stock brokerage firm.\n\nEntering the investment business, Buffett also served on the Omaha board of education from 1939 to 1942. In 1942 he ran for the U.S. House of Representatives in the Nebraska district in which Omaha was located. In that election, Buffett was seen as \"a Republican sacrificial lamb in Nebraska's second district when FDR was a popular wartime leader.\" Nevertheless, he went on to win the Republican nomination in the primary and then the subsequent general election.\n\nHe was reelected twice. In 1948 he again was the Republican nominee for another term, but was defeated for reelection; however, he was the Republican nominee for the office again in 1950 and won the office back. In 1952 Buffett decided against seeking another term and returned to his investment business in Omaha, Buffett-Falk & Co., in which he worked until shortly before his death. He also served as the campaign manager for conservative Senator Robert A. Taft in Taft's 1952 presidential campaign.\n\nAccording to Warren Buffett biographer Roger Lowenstein:\n\nHoward Buffett is remembered for his highly libertarian Old Right stance, having maintained a friendship with Murray Rothbard for a number of years. He \"would invariably draw 'zero' ratings from the Americans for Democratic Action and other leftist groups.\"\n\nBuffett was a vocal critic of the Truman Doctrine and the Marshall Plan. Of the Truman Doctrine, he said: \"Our Christian ideals cannot be exported to other lands by dollars and guns.\" Buffett was also \"one of the major voices in Congress opposed to the Korean adventure,\" and \"was convinced that the United States was largely responsible for the eruption of conflict in Korea; for the rest of his life he tried unsuccessfully to get the Senate Armed Services Committee to declassify the testimony of CIA head Admiral Roscoe H. Hillenkoetter, which Buffett told [Rothbard] established American responsibility for the Korean outbreak.\"\n\nSpeaking on the floor of Congress, he said of military interventionism that,\n\nIn the summer of 1962, he wrote \"an impassioned plea ... for the abolition of the draft\" in the \"New Individualist Review\". Buffett wrote:\n\nIn addition to non-interventionism overseas, Howard Buffett strongly supported the gold standard because he believed it would limit the ability of government to inflate the money supply and spend beyond its means. His son Warren Buffett is not an advocate of the gold standard.\n\nBuffett married Leila Stahl Buffett (d.1996), who was a descendant of the Stahl family from Estonia; they had three children:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13889958", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13889958", "title": "Incremental operating margin", "text": "Incremental operating margin\n\nIncremental operating margin is the increase or decrease of income from continuing operations before stock-based compensation, interest expense and income-tax expense between two periods, divided by the increase or decrease in revenue between the same two periods.\n"}
{"id": "5688881", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5688881", "title": "Institute of Chartered Accountants Australia", "text": "Institute of Chartered Accountants Australia\n"}
{"id": "35592512", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35592512", "title": "Integrated vehicle health management", "text": "Integrated vehicle health management\n\nIntegrated vehicle health management (IVHM) or integrated system health management (ISHM) is the unified capability of systems to assess the current or future state of the member system health and integrate that picture of system health within a framework of available resources and operational demand.\n\nThe aims of IVHM are to enable better management of vehicle and vehicle fleet health.\n\nThis is achieved through correct use of reliable sensing and prognosis systems to monitor part health and also using usage data to assist in understanding the load experienced and likely future vehicle load.\n\nIt has been suggested that IVHM as a named concept has been around since the 1970s.\nHowever, there does not seem to be much in the way of written evidence of this. IVHM as a concept grew out of popular aviation maintenance methods. It was a natural next step from condition based maintenance. As sensors improved and our understanding of the systems concerned grew, it became possible to not just detect failure but also to predict it. The high unit cost & high maintenance cost of aircraft & spacecraft made any advance in maintenance methods very attractive. \nNASA was one of the first organisations to use the name IVHM to describe how they wanted to approach maintenance of spacecraft in the future. They created NASA-CR-192656, in 1992 with the assistance of the General Research Corporation and the Orbital Technologies Corporation. This was a goals & objectives document in which they discussed the technology and maintenance concepts that they believed would be necessary to enhance safety while reducing maintenance costs in their next generation vehicles. Many companies since then have become interested in IVHM and body of literature has increased substantially. There are now IVHM solutions for many different types of vehicle from the JSF to commercial haulage vehicles.\n\nThe first published history of predicting spacecraft equipment failures occurred on the 12 Rockwell/U.S. Air Force Global Positioning System Block I (Phase 1) satellites using non-repeatable transient events (NRTE) and GPS Kalman filter data from the GPS Master Control Station, between 1978 and 1984 by the GPS Space and Ground Segment Manager. NRTEs were isolated to the GPS satellites after mission operations support personnel replayed the real-time satellite telemetry ruling out RF and land-line noise caused from poor Eb/No or S/N and data acquisition and display system processing problems. The GPS satellite's subsystem equipment vendors diagnosed the NRTEs as systemic noise that preceded the equipment failures because at the time, it was believed that all equipment failures occurred instantaneously and randomly and so equipment failures could not be predicted (e.g. equipment failures exhibited memoryless behavior). Rockwell International GPS Systems Engineering Manager ordered a stop to predicting GPS satellite equipment failures in 1983 claiming it wasn't possible and the company was not on contract to do so. The prognostic analysis that was completed on the GPS satellite telemetry was published quarterly contractually as a CDRL to the GPS Program Office personnel and a wide variety of Air Force subcontractors working on the GPS program.\n\nOne of the key milestones in the creation of IVHM for aircraft was the series of ARINC standards that enabled different manufacturers to create equipment that would work together and be able to send diagnostic data from the aircraft to the maintenance organisation on the ground. ACARS is frequently used to communicate maintenance and operational data between the flight crew and the ground crew. This has led to concepts which have been adopted in IVHM.\n\nAnother milestone was the creation of health and usage monitoring systems(HUMS) for helicopters operating in support of the Oil rigs in the North Sea. This is key concept that usage data can be used to assist maintenance planning.\nFOQA or Flight Data systems are similar to HUMS as they monitor the vehicle usage. They are useful for IVHM in the same way as they allow the usage of the vehicle to be thoroughly understood which aids in the design of future vehicles. It also allows excessive loads and usage to be identified and corrected. For example, if an aircraft was experiencing frequent heavy landings the maintenance schedule for the undercarriage could be changed to ensure that they are not wearing too fast under the increased load. The load carried by the aircraft could be lessened in future or operators could be given additional training to improve the quality of the landings.\n\nThe growing nature of this field led Boeing to set up an IVHM centre with Cranfield University in 2008 to act as a world leading research hub. The IVHM centre has since then offered the world's first IVHM Msc course and hosts several PhD students researching the application of IVHM to different fields.\n\nIVHM is concerned not just with the current condition of the vehicle but also with health across its whole life cycle. IVHM examines the vehicle health against the vehicle usage data and within the context of similar information for other vehicles within the fleet. In use vehicles display unique usage characteristics and also some characteristics common across the fleet. Where usage data and system health data is available these can be analysed to identify these characteristics. This is useful in the \nIdentification of problems unique to one vehicle as well as identifying trends in vehicle degradation across the entire fleet.\n\nIVHM is a concept for the complete maintenance life cycle of a vehicle (or machine plant installation). It makes extensive use of embedded sensors and self-monitoring equipment combined with prognostics and diagnostic reasoning. In the case of vehicles it is typical for there to be a data acquisition module on-board and a diagnostic unit. Some vehicles can transfer selected data back to base while in use through various rf systems. Whenever the vehicle is at base the data is also transferred to a set of maintenance computers that also process that data for a deeper understanding of the true health of the vehicle. The usage of the vehicle can also be matched to the degradation of parts and improve the prognostics prediction accuracy.\n\nThe remaining useful life is used to plan replacement or repair of the part at some convenient time prior to failure. The inconvenience of taking the vehicle out of service is balanced against the cost of unscheduled maintenance to ensure that the part is replaced at the optimum point prior to failure. This process has been compared to the process of choosing when to buy financial options as the cost of scheduled maintenance must be balanced against the risk of failure and the cost of unscheduled maintenance.\n\nThis differs from Condition-based maintenance(CBM) where the part is replaced once it has failed or once a threshold is passed. This often involves taking the vehicle out of service with at an inconvenient time when it could be generating revenue. It is preferable to use an IVHM approach to replace it at the most convenient time. This allows the reduction in waste component life caused by replacing the part too early and also reducing cost incurred by unscheduled maintenance. This is possible due to the increased prognostic distance provided by an IVHM solution. There are many technologies that are used in IVHM. The field itself is still growing and many techniques are still being added to the body of knowledge.\n\nHealth monitoring sensors are designed into the vehicle and report to a data processing unit. Some of the data may be manipulated on board for immediate system diagnosis and prognosis. Less time critical data is processed off board. All the historical data for the vehicle can be compared with current performance to identify degradation trends at a more detailed level than could be done on board the vehicle. This is all used to improve reliability and availability and the data is also fed back to the manufacturer for them to improve their product.\n\nA standard architecture for IVHM has been proposed as the OSA-CBM standard which gives a structure for data gathering, analysis and action. This is intended to facilitate interoperability between IVHM systems of different suppliers.\nThe key parts within OSA-CBM are\nThese are laid out within ISO 13374\n\nThe system is not intended to replace safety critical warnings such as an aircraft's flight management system but instead to complement them and perhaps also leverage existing sensors for assistance with system health monitoring. Ideal systems to monitor are those systems, subsystems & structural elements which are likely to show graceful degradation so that they can be repaired or replaced at a convenient time prior to failure. This gives a saving over condition based maintenance as once a part has failed often a vehicle cannot be used until repaired. This often results in scheduling difficulties if the vehicle fails when it was needed for revenue generation and cannot be used. In contrast IVHM can be used to replace the part during vehicle downtime prior to failure. This ensures that it can continue to generate revenue as scheduled.\n\nCommunications between the vehicle and the maintenance organisation are crucial to fixing faults in a timely manner. The balance of how much data should be sent to the maintainer during use and how much should be downloaded while in maintenance is a one that must be judged carefully. One example of this is what is known as fault forwarding. When an aircraft experiences a fault the flight management system reports it to the flight crew but also sends a message through ACARS to the maintenance team so that they can start their maintenance planning before the aircraft has landed. This yields a time advantage as they know some of the parts and personnel required to fix the fault before the aircraft has landed. However the communication link does cost money and has a limited bandwidth so the worth of this health & usage data must be judged carefully with consideration given as to whether it should be transmitted or merely downloaded during the next maintenance or as part of the operator shutdown process.\n\n"}
{"id": "53919106", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53919106", "title": "Inter-professional association", "text": "Inter-professional association\n\nInter-professional associations have been defined as private organizations, recognized by the State, that group together participants from all stages of the same agricultural commodity chain (filière in French), with the objectives of elaborating policies, guaranteeing equity among the members, facilitating the improvement of the performance of the chain and defending the interests of the members. There are around sixty such associations in France and several in Francophone countries of Africa. A particular feature of inter-professional associations is that the membership is made up of associations that represent the individual chain professions. This is in contrast, for example, to commodity associations in the United States where membership is largely of individuals and companies. Many developing countries have few or no associations that cover an entire commodity chain and there would appear scope for the development of such organizations to promote improved liaison with governments.\n\nIn developing countries, inter-professional associations are becoming an increasingly important form of participatory development. \nFactors influencing the importance of these associations in the development of the agro-food sector include:\n\nThe main functions of an association are to define, represent, defend and promote the interests of its members. Inter-professional associations are much more prevalent in Latin America than in other developing regions, although French and Canadian government support has led to development of such associations in Francophone Africa, based on the models from those two countries. In Asia, the concept is even rarer. A notable exception is Vietnam where the government has encouraged the development of inter-professional organizations to help structure those sectors whose products have export potential, such as tea, coffee, and fruit.\n"}
{"id": "40154105", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40154105", "title": "J. K. Siaw", "text": "J. K. Siaw\n\nJoshua Kwabena Siaw, popularly known as J. K. Siaw (January 1923 – October 1986), was a Ghanaian industrialist and philanthropist, who in 1969 established Tata Brewery Ltd. – now known as Guinness Ghana Breweries, also as Achimota Brewery Company (ABC). He is notable for opening the largest wholly African-owned brewery company in West Africa in 1973. In 1979 all his assets were confiscated by the AFRC regime of Ghana under false allegations of tax evasion. He died in London, in exile, in October 1986.\n\nJoshua Kwabena Siaw was born in Obomeng, a small town in the Eastern Region of Ghana, in January 1923. His father came from Akwaseho and his mother from Juaben in the Ashanti Region. J. K. Siaw worked with his father on a cocoa farm before attending school, aged 12, in 1935, and he took to basket-making as a way to make more money to further his own education.\n\nIn 1942, aged 19, Siaw became a teacher of Standard One class in Akwaseho. After a couple of months he went to work at the Orthodox Mission School and then to the Bremang Gold Dredging Company near Bogoso, in Ghana's Western Region. After just one month, he went to Effiduase Banko to work again as a teacher from June 1943 to March 1945.\nSiaw then went to work at the New Juaben Grammar School but left after a year because the headmaster, Mr. Sarkodea, was mismanaging the school. Siaw established Christ College in 1946 with his father, before apprenticing with a pharmacist for a year. Christ College evolved into Ghana Secondary School in Effiduase by 1976.\n\nSiaw then decided to go into business and borrowed £50 (£1500.00 in 2013 relative value) to start up as a cocoa broker. In four months he had made £600 (£18,000.00 in 2013 relative value) profit. In April 1950 he became a siding clerk at Kwahu Praso, transporting cocoa to Accra, Ghana's capital. He repaid the £200 security charge for the clerking employment with interest in six months and was bound for a further six months, by contract, but he decided to stay for only four.\nIn 1953 he worked as a siding clerk, this time for the Cocoa Purchasing Company, which paid £6 a month. He became a cocoa and timber transporter in 1954.\n\nIn 1957, he began selling enamelware until the Government of Ghana under Kwame Nkrumah banned the importation of those goods.\n\nIn 1964, Siaw's first request to the government to be granted permission to set up a brewery was rejected. He applied again in 1967 and that application too was rejected on the grounds that licences had been given to Ashanti and Takoradi breweries. Despite being offered an investment of 400,000 cedis from Siaw, Takoradi brewery could not happen.\n\nA third application to the government to set up a brewery was successful and approved 26 July 1969. The approval was given to \"Tata Trading Company\" to establish a brewery in Cape Coast in the Central Region, Ghana, \"a place of fashion, scholarship, and beauty\". A suitable site could not be found in Cape Coast and the project was relocated to Achimota, a town on the Accra-Nsawam Road.\n\nThe new National Redemption Council (NRC) government attempted to renegotiate the competing interests of the state, local businessmen, workers, and foreign capital. Loans and tax incentives were promised to Ghanaian businessmen who went into manufacturing. \nTata Brewery Ltd was commissioned on 30 January 1973, Siaw's 50th birthday. It was officially opened by the then Head of State Colonel Ignatius Kutu Acheampong, who said of the event: \"It is the single-minded and single-handed effort of Mr. J. K. Siaw... which has been responsible for what we see around us today. Mr. Siaw is an excellent example of the innate ability of the Ghanaian to rise to the needs of the occasion\". Siaw had wanted \"his Brewery to stand for centuries to come\", \"even longer than the famous Christiansborg Castle\". J. K. Siaw, established Tata Brewery Limited, the first fully Ghanaian-owned brewery in the country.\n\nTata Company secured exclusive export rights for the \"Maltex\" drink to neighbouring Togo, Dahomey (Benin), Upper Volta (Burkina Faso), Ivory Coast, Sierra Leone, Liberia, Senegal, and The Gambia from Albani Breweries Limited, a Danish firm operating in Ghana. The company was the first brewery to introduce draught beer into the country.\n\nThe Ghana Commercial Bank provided a loan of 950,000 cedis for the project to begin, with a pre-requisite that Siaw deposited 200,000 cedis. By 1976, the brewery employed 750 Ghanaians and only four expatriates. Siaw produced his own brand of beer - Tata Pilsner Beer.\n\n\"In the country's bid to industrialize, the alcohol industry has played a pioneering role.\"\n\nAugust 25th 1977 J.K Siaw formed The Modern Continental Bank together with Mr Kwadwo Ohene-Ampofo a legal practitioner.\nFor the workers and their families there was a clinic, a subsidised canteen and free transport to work. Siaw sought to build housing for the workers not too far from the site. Vaccinations were provided free of charge to the workers and their families.\nSiaw presented to the Korle-Bu Teaching Hospital an electro-cardiograph, a piece of equipment the hospital was deficient of.\nSiaw also donated towards the construction of a hospital in Akwaseho in 1975 and begun the building of a road from Akwaseho to Obomeng, a project that ceased when the 1979 AFRC regime seized his assets. No subsequent governments have completed the road.\n\nSiaw was the subject of a book by J. Benibengor Blay entitled \"The Story of Tata\" (c.1976).\n\nSee Armed Forces Revolutionary Council, Ghana\n\nSiaw was among the businessmen targeted by the AFRC under the \"house cleaning\" exercise against corruption. The AFRC were under the impression that Ghana's wealthiest businessmen, of whom J. K. Siaw was the most prominent, must have acquired their wealth through corruption facilitated by the country's former leaders, including Lt. Gen. Akwasi Afrifa, Gen. Acheampong and Lt. Gen. Fred Akuffo, who were all executed. During the short time that the Armed Forces Revolutionary Council was the government of Ghana (4 June 1979 until 24 September 1979), Siaw was arrested on numerous occasions, and his house looted. Junior soldiers raided his properties for a catalogue of items, including a £3000.00 gold watch (£33000.00 in 2013 relative value), until he was released secretly by a junior soldier and left for Liberia.\n\nThe tax-evasion charges totalled ¢10 million (as of 1979) however, they were false allegations.\n\nFollowing from the upheaval in Ghana in 1979, Siaw started again in Liberia, which by comparison to Ghana was a very safe and peaceful country in West Africa at the time.\n\nSiaw petitioned the PNDC government, which came into power with the overthrow of the government of Hilla Limann, who had been supported by the AFRC in the 1979 elections. The PNDC government systematically targeted businesses of other businessmen as well as Siaw. The National Investigation Committee, created in 1982, was created to investigate corruption in public office. It reviewed cases of persons whose assets were confiscated by the state during the three-month rule of the AFRC. The NIC \"found that the confiscation of all the assets of J. K. Siaw, owner of the former Tata Brewery, on the grounds that he engaged in over-invoicing and under-invoicing during the Acheampong period was a travesty of justice\".\n\nSiaw left Liberia to live in South London, until he died in October 1986. He had sent numerous petitions to the military government PNDC and had applied for safe entry to be allowed back into Ghana without risk of arrest. His body was flown back to Ghana in December of that year. He did not receive his assets back and was considered a criminal by the state, despite the allegations being baseless.\n\nIn the 1990s under the NDC government, successor to the PNDC government and AFRC, Tata Brewery (by then Achimota Brewery Company) was privatised. The International Finance Corporation provided a US$3.5 million loan and a US$1 million equity investment to help finance the US$24.5 million privatization, rehabilitation, and expansion of Achimota Brewery Company (ABC) in Accra, Ghana. The sale of the brewery by the Government of Ghana represented the largest non-mining privatization in Ghana by that time. The IFC also acquired an 11% stake in the business.\n\nJ. K. Siaw's family have not since received any compensation for the ordeal that they went through. --->Ghana's subsequent NPP government announced its intention to compensate victims of the previous military regimes and return some seized assets In 2008, the then government returned eight houses to the family on a \"where is, as is basis\", meaning they were made to accept the properties in the condition the government was prepared to return them. It was hinted that compensation would be paid to those whose properties were sold, yet despite Tata Brewery being sold twice since confiscation the family received no compensation on that single property, nor on the list of items looted from Siaw's numerous properties.\n"}
{"id": "43747143", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43747143", "title": "James Hay (entrepreneur)", "text": "James Hay (entrepreneur)\n\nJames \"Jim\" Hay (born 7 June 1950) is a Scottish born entrepreneur. He is the Chairman of Dubai-based JMH Group – a private family business operating in the construction and high end luxury goods markets. The Hay family was listed in the Sunday Times 2012 ‘Rich List’ as being amongst Scotland’s 100 wealthiest people.\n\nHay studied at Strathclyde University, Glasgow, Scotland gaining a Bachelor of Science (B.Sc.) and Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) in Applied Chemistry. In 2013 he was welcomed to the ‘Strathclyde Academy of Distinguished Entrepreneur’s’ for his work with the JMH Group/Fosroc.\n\nIn 1975 Hay joined BP as an engineer and went on to spend 27 years there. He went on to become a senior executive at BP.\n\nIn 2002 Hay founded the JMH Group, a private business which is today reported as having turnover in excess of $600m. He is Chairman of the JMH Group which includes Fosroc as well as luxury goods brands Ray Ward, Bernard Wetherill (Savile Row men's outfitters) and Fitriani (women's fashion design and retailer).\n\nHay acquired Fosroc which provides Constructive Solutions for a wide variety of construction project.\n\nIn 2006 Hay purchased Uplands, The Lambourn Yard from John and Lavinia Taylor. In 2008 the Hay family were reported to have topped the list of buyers at South Africa’s yearling sales.\n\nIn 2011, they purchased a share in Irish Derby and Champion Stakes winner Cape Blanco and 4 time Group 1 winner Fame and Glory. Fame and Glory went on to win the 2011 Ascot Gold Cup, on a day when the Hays were invited to join the Queen's Royal procession in open-topped carriages from Windsor Castle.\n\nIn 2010 the Hay family enjoyed their most successful year in racing with 27 winners, 24 second places and 26 third places earning a total of £375,969 in prize money. In 2014 up to 4 September they have had 13 winners, 9 second places and 13 third places netting £177,991 in total prize money.\n\nIn 2011, Hay and his wife Fitri purchased Birch Grove, the former home of Harold Macmillan in West Sussex.\n\nThe estate also includes a private golf course.\n\nIn 2009, Hay was reported to have made a substantial donation to his former university, Strathclyde's Insititute of Pharmacy and BioMedical Sciences, in support of a 'Drug Discovery' campaign.\n\nHay is listed as a ‘Diamond Star Patron’ for the Dubai Community Theatre & Arts Centre.\n"}
{"id": "32688307", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32688307", "title": "Jean Henri Lhuillier", "text": "Jean Henri Lhuillier\n\nJean Henri Diago Lhuillier (born March 24, 1969) is a Filipino businessman, diplomat and sports patron. Jean Henri is the President and CEO of the PJ Lhuillier Group of Companies, which operates and manages Cebuana Lhuillier, the largest microfinancial institution in the Philippines. He is an Official Knight of the Equestrian Order of Saint Agatha conferred by Minister Pasquale Valentini of the Department of Foreign Affairs in San Marino. He is the son of the Philippine Ambassador to Spain Philippe Jones Lhuillier and Edna Diago Lhuillier. \n\nJean Henri graduated from Saint Mary’s College, Moraga, California, United States with a degree in Economics and Business Administration in 1992. He has completed the short course for Owner/President Management in 2009 at Harvard Business School. He is also an alumnus of the Gemological Institute of America and has obtained an honorary Doctor of Humanities degree from the Polytechnic University of the Philippines in 2013.\n\nHe is the President and CEO of PJ Lhuillier, Inc., Cebuana Lhuillier Insurance Solutions, Cebuana Lhuillier Services Corp., Cebuana Lhuillier Financial Corp., Cebuana Lhuillier Rural Bank, Inc., Cebuana Lhuillier Foundation, Inc., Cebuana Lhuillier Marketing Services, Inc., Cebuana Lhuillier Microbusiness, Inc., Cintrée Management Services, Inc., Just Jewels Diamonds Boutique Corporation, Le Soleil De Boracay Resort, Inc., Networld Capital Ventures, Inc., Pawncare Services, Corp., P & EL Realty Corp., P.J. Lhuillier Development Corp., PJL Corporate Centre, Inc., PJL Leisure, Inc., PJL Ventures, Inc., Riche Gould Real Estate, Inc., and Verité Pawn Corp..\n\nHe is the current Director and Chairman of the Board of Global Restaurant Concepts, the Philippine franchise holder of California Pizza Kitchen, Ihop Restaurant, Applebee’s, Morelli's Gelato, and Gyu-Kaku.\n\nHe is also the Director of Enderun Colleges, Inc., DFNN.com, Falcor Heli Solutions Philippines, Inc., Hatchasia.com, Intelligent Wave Philippines, and Next Ideas, Inc..\n\nJean Henri is the current President of the Chamber of Pawnbrokers of the Philippines, Inc. (CPPI) and of the Board of Director of the Association of Philippine Private Remittance Service Companies, Inc. (APRISE). He is also an Advisory Board Member of the School of Economics and Business Administration of the St. Mary’s College of California.\n\nHe is also a commander of the 101st Auxiliary Squadron of the Philippine Coast Guard since 2005. He is also a member of the Young Presidents' Organization, the Philippine Chamber of Commerce & Industry, the American Management Association, the National Pawnbrokers' Association (USA), the Chain des Rotisseurs, the Green Hotels Association, the Project Management Institute (USA), the Institute for Supply Management (USA), the Public Relations Society of Americas, the St. Mary's College Alumni Association, the Direct Marketing Association (USA), and the International Association of Human Resource Information Management (USA).\n\nHe has recently become a member of the ASHOKA Innovators for the Public, the Paul Harris Society (Rotary Foundation of Rotary Int'l) and, a co-sponsor of the Lhuillier-Hess Scholarship, Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania. He is also a Melvin Jones Fellow of the Lions Club International Foundation and a George F. Hixson Fellow of the Kiwanis Children’s Fund.\n\nConsidered a patron of Philippine sports, Jean Henri helps athletes representing the country in international tournaments and supports programs that aim to develop the youth through sports particularly basketball, tennis, and softball.\n\nHe is a co-founder of the Unified Tennis Philippines (UTP) and is the current Chairman of the Board of the Philippine Tennis Association (PhilTA), team manager of the Davis Cup Team Philippines, the team owner of Cebuana Lhuillier Gems, and the president of the Amateur Softball Association of the Philippines (ASAPHIL).\n\nHe also serves as the current director of Philippine Tennis Academy, team manager of Philippine Men's Softball Team and Philippine Women Softball Team. He is a member of the Professional Tennis Registry (USA), the Softball Confederation Asia, and the United States Professional Tennis Association Inc.\n\nIn recent years, he has expanded Cebuana Lhuillier sports by engaging into international sports events such as the International Premier Tennis League (IPTL), the International Tennis Federation (ITF) Futures and the ATP Challenger Tour. He is co-owner of the Philippine Mavericks in the IPTL which brought the world's best players such as Serena Williams and Rafael Nadal among others, to the Philippines last December 2015. He also sponsored the ATP Challenger Tour last January 2016 which featured the likes of former world number 8, Mikhail Youzhny. He also sponsored (via Cebuana Lhuillier) the 2016 and 2017 Philippine qualifying tournaments for the 16-under and 14-under WTA (Women’s Tennis Association) Future Stars.\n\nIn 2017, Jean Henri was awarded with a gold and silver trophy by the CEO World Awards for the CEO of the Year and the CEO Excellence of the Year categories, respectively. In the same year, the Golden Bridge Awards gave him a bronze award for the Executive of the Year category.\n\nHe also won a total of six awards from the 2017 International Business Awards, two of which were gold Stevie trophies for the Executive of the Year for Insurance and Executive of the Year for Diversified Services categories, and four bronze Stevie trophies for Executive of the Year for Conglomerates, Executive of the Year for Financial Services, Innovator of the Year, and Maverick of the Year categories.\n\nFrom the previous year, he won the silver award for Executive of the Year for Diversified Services and for Insurance categories and received the bronze award for the Executive of the Year for Financial Services and for the Maverick of the Year categories from the same award giving body. \n\nThe Golden Bridge Awards 2016 also gave him a gold award for the CEO of the Year category.\n\nHe also won big at the 2015 International Business Awards, bagging a total of seven awards. He was the gold awardee for the Executive of the Year for Diversified Services and for Financial Services categories. He got the silver recognition for Executive of the Year for Conglomerates, Maverick of the Year, and Chairman of the Year. He also won the bronze award for Executive of the Year for Insurance and for Innovator of the Year categories.\n\nIn the same year, he won a gold award for the CEO of the Year category at the Golden Bridge Awards.\nIn 2014, he won a bronze award for the Executive Leader of the Year category from the Golden Bridge Awards. In the same year, the CEO World Awards also recognized Jean Henri as gold awardee for the CEO of the year.\n\nHe was the recipient of the Gold Stevie Awards for the Executive of the Year for Insurance from the 2014 International Business Awards. He is also recognized with the Silver Stevie Awards for the Executive of the Year for Financial Services and for the Innovator of the Year from the same awards-giving body. He also received the Bronze Stevie Award for the Executive of the Year for Diversified Services.\n\nIn June 2014, Jean Henri Lhuillier was conferred the rank of Official Knight of the Equestrian Order of Saint Agatha by Minister Pasquale Valentini of the Department of Foreign Affairs in San Marino on July 29, 2014 at the Palazzo Begni, Contrada Omerelli, San Marino due to his seven years of active and consistent efforts to strengthen the bilateral relationship between San Marino and the Philippines.\n\nHe was also given the Sales Individual of the Year award from the 2014 Customer Service and Sales World Awards of the Silicon Valley Communications.\n\nHe is the recipient of the 2013 Juran Medal Award of the Philippine Society for Quality, Inc.\n\nHe also received the Gold Stevie Award from the International Business Awards for Executive of the Year for Financial Services and for Diversified Services.He also received a Silver Stevie and Bronze Stevie Award for the Senior Sales Executive of the Year and the Customer Service Leader of the Year categories, respectively.\n\nHe was also hailed the Pawnbroker of the Year in 2011 by the Chamber of Pawnbrokers of the Philippines, Inc.\n\nHe was awarded an honorary Doctor of Humanities from the Polytechnic University of the Philippines in 2013.\n\nJean Henri is married to Beatriz Lucero Lhuillier, a bronze medalist in Taekwondo at the 1992 Olympics and an award-winning gymnast. They have three sons and one daughter.\n\n"}
{"id": "7488207", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7488207", "title": "Knowledge Management Research &amp; Practice", "text": "Knowledge Management Research &amp; Practice\n\nKnowledge Management Research & Practice (KMRP) is a peer-reviewed academic journal covering all aspects of managing knowledge, organisational learning, intellectual capital and knowledge economics. It is an official journal of The Operational Research Society. According to its homepage, it has also been accepted in Thomson Reuters Social Sciences Citation Index and its current impact factor is 1.013, according to 2016 Journal Citation Reports® (Thomson Reuters, 2017).\n\nThe journal is currently abstracted and indexed in the Association of Business Schools' Academic Journal Quality Guide, Compendex, EMBASE, EMNursing, GEOBASE, International Abstracts in Operations Research, International Bibliography of Periodical Literature on the Humanities and Social Sciences, International Bibliography of Book Reviews of Scholarly Literature on the Humanities and Social Sciences, International Bibliography of the Social Sciences, Mosby Yearbooks, and Scopus.\n"}
{"id": "25504216", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25504216", "title": "Leo Geeris", "text": "Leo Geeris\n\nLeo Geeris is a prominent Dutch businessman and investor. He was ranked in the 350 richest persons in the Netherlands, and is especially active in the real estate sector. Leo Geeris is a sponsor for many charities and sport events.\n\nLeo Geeris is known for investing in airports, department stores, railways, and restaurants. Among the richest 500 people in the Netherlands in 2009, Geeris declared bankruptcy in September 2011.\n"}
{"id": "55752201", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55752201", "title": "Lina Annab", "text": "Lina Annab\n\nLina Annab is a businessperson, politician and the previous Minister of Tourism and Antiquities in Jordan.\n\nLisa Annab graduated from Georgetown University in the United States. She has been a General Manager in Zara Investment Company since 2008. She was made the Minister of Tourism and Antiquities in the cabinet of Hani Mulki on June 2016. She was elected to the board of American Center of Oriental Research, she resigned her position after she was appointed government minister. She patronized the Arab Aviation summit in Jordan on 3 December 2016. She headed the Jordanian delegation to the 41st session of UNESCO’s World Heritage Committee. She helped organize an Opera Festival in Jordan in 2017; which was a first in the Arab world.\n"}
{"id": "56232411", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56232411", "title": "Liner Conference System", "text": "Liner Conference System\n\nA Liner Conference System (also called a \"shipping conference\") is an agreement within the shipping industry in relation to ocean liners. Typically, the agreement is between two or more shipping companies to provide scheduled cargo and/or passenger service on a particular trade route under uniform rates and common terms.\n\nAlthough a Liner Conference System allows shipowners to club together, enabling them to continue to operate a regular \"liner service\" and maintain requisite standards of service, there is a downside. Such agreements may establish protectionist organisations that can involve monopoly abuse and possible breach of competition law. For instance, under European Community Law, article 101 of the Treaty of Rome \"(as amended)\" imposes a \"prima facie\" ban on anticompetitive \"agreements between undertakings\". However, the Encyclopædia Britannica site states that overall the advantages to the public of Liner Conferences outweigh their disadvantages.\n\n"}
{"id": "57376307", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57376307", "title": "Manuel Suárez y Suárez", "text": "Manuel Suárez y Suárez\n\nManuel Suárez y Suárez (23 March 1896 – 23 July 1987) was a Spanish immigrant to Mexico who became a successful entrepreneur and patron of the arts.\nHe is known for the Casino de la Selva in Cuernavaca, the Hotel de México, and the adjacent Polyforum Cultural Siqueiros.\n\nManuel Suárez y Suárez was born on 23 March 1896 in Téifaros, from Navia, Asturias.\nHe was the second son of a family of ten.\nHis parents were cousins, Balbina Suárez Rodríguez of Téifaros and Manuel Suárez Fernández of Loredo, Villayón.\nThey grew potatoes and grain, and had two cows and a donkey.\nHe received a basic education in the village school, and acquired a love of books.\nManuel's older brother Joaquin moved to Mexico to work on the dairy farm of his uncle Joaquín Rodríguez y García Loredo, but when he arrived found his uncle had died. \nJoaquin became a clerk at the wholesale grain merchant Casa Peral Alverde and saved up to fund Manuel's journey to Mexico.\n\nIn the spring of 1911 at the age of 15 Manuel emigrated to Mexico.\nHe was hired by the Casa Peral Alvede to travel through the north and center of Mexico buying crops.\nIn May 1914 he was captured by the insurgents under Pancho Villa.\nHe was almost shot, but then was made a lieutenant colonel and served on Villa's general staff for almost a year before being given leave to return to Mexico City.\nThe Suárez brothers prospered and were able to bring their three younger brothers to join them.\nFrom 1918 to 1919 Manuel studied at the School of Commerce in Gijón.\n\nIn 1919 Manuel and Joachim Suárez left the Casa Peral Alverde and founded the La Mexicana grocery store in the La Merced neighborhood of Mexico City.\nIn 1923 Manuel left this business and founded a building supply company named Eureka in partnership with the son of Plutarco Elías Calles, the future President of Mexico.\nHe later became the sole owner of this business.\nHe undertook contracts to build infrastructure for the states' improvemement boards (\"Juntas De Mejoras\").\nPart of his fortune came from buying land at low cost in places such as Acapulco, Nogales, Veracruz, Manzanillo, Tijuana, Laredo and Ciudad Juarez that he later sold after these communities started to develop.\nThe first constitutional governor of Morelos state, Vicente Estrada Cajigal, authorized construction of a casino complex in Cuernavaca by the Compañía Hispanoamericana de Hoteles.\nThis was a consortium of Mexican businessmen backed by President Abelardo L. Rodríguez.\nSuárez was the building contractor.\nThe Casino de la Selva was inaugurated in 1931 near the train station.\nIt was briefly the most luxurious watering spot in the Americas until the Garci-Crespo Hotel opened in Tehuacán in 1934.\nHowever, the owners were unable to pay their debts to the state or to the builders.\nSuárez was the main creditor and acquired the property in 1934.\nThat year the new president Lázaro Cárdenas took office. \nOne of his first decrees banned gambling in Mexico since he saw casinos as centers of vice.\nSuárez retained the property but ran it purely as a hotel.\n\nSuárez and the Valencian architect Jesús Martí Martín founded the company Vías y Obras (Roads and Works), which built facilities in the ports of Veracruz, Acapulco and other cities.\nIn 1936 Suárez bought the Hotel Mocambo in Veracruz.\nThat year he went to Italy to buy machinery for Eureka.\nHe had trouble with the authorities of the Mussolini regime, who seized a cross of diamonds and pearls he had bought for one of his daughters, and from then on was opposed to Italian Fascism.\nHowever, he supported General Francisco Franco with supplies during the Spanish Civil War.\nBetween 1936 and 1941 he invested in sugar mills in Sonora, Oaxaca, Tepic and Sinaloa.\n\nDuring World War II (1939–45) Mexico declared war on the Axis in 1942.\nSuárez helped develop the system of replacing imports by local production.\nHe said later that President Manuel Ávila Camacho (1940–46) offered to make him Minister of the Economy three times, but he refused on the basis that business should be separate from politics.\nSuárez was also a close friend of President Miguel Alemán Valdés (1946–52), who promoted development of tourism.\nHe loved art, and promoted the career of contemporary artists such as Dr. Atl (Gerardo Murillo), David Alfaro Siqueiros, Jorge González Camarena, José Reyes Meza, Francisco Icaza and Josep Renau.\n\nSuárez wanted the Casino de la Selva to be a gathering place for intellectuals and artists, and commissioned various works of art for the walls and gardens.\nHe hired Mexican and Spanish artists such as José Reyes Meza and Josep Renau to decorate the walls with murals showing Mexican history from the pre-Columbian period to the modern age.\nThe murals would cover an area of .\nThe hotel became the center of cultural activity in Cuernavaca and was visited by artists, writers and political activists.\n\nAt the end of the 1950s the construction company of the brothers Félix, Antonio and Julia Candela built a dining room attached to an auditorium at the Casino de la Selva, and a non-denominational chapel in place of the fountain at the entrance, all with shell roofs.\nFélix Candela's pupil, the architect Juan Antonio Tonda, designed the shells and about 30 bungalows in the south of the site and oversaw construction.\nLater the chapel was converted to a nightclub, the Club Jano, and then the Discoteca Mambo.\nThe dining room, the \"Salón de los Relojes\" (Salon of the Clocks), had a roof formed of five paraboloid sections with a large clock hanging from the central point where the arcs intersected showing the times of places around the world.\nThe auditorium, reached via the \"Salón de los Relojes\", had a single hyperbolic paraboloid roof and contained the mural \"La farándula\" (Showbiz) by the Mexican artist Francisco Icaza, a tribute to the German playwright Bertolt Brecht.\n\nSuárez opened three restaurants in Mexico City, and in 1966 embarked on building the Gran Hotel de México (now the World Trade Center).\nSuarez conceived the idea of building a major business and tourist complex named Mexico 2000, centered around the huge Hotel de México.\nFrom the 1970s until his death he put most of his energy into the project, which grew out of control.\n\nThe hotel was to be the largest in the Americas, high with 1,500 rooms.\nIt was to be 51 stories high with 1,508 hexagonal rooms that could house 3,100 guests.\nA panoramic elevator would be able to carry 100 tourists, and 19 other elevators for normal passengers, and there would be one covered and one open air panoramic terrace.\nA heliport would be equipped with customs.\nThere would be four cafeterias and six restaurants, with a revolving restaurant on the top floor, five reception halls, a 3000-person convention room, a spiral-shaped shopping mall, a theatre, museum and so on.\nThe building was unfinished when Suarez died, and remained an unfinished skeleton for many years.\n\nThe Polyforum Cultural Siqueiros was built in the grounds of the hotel, with murals by the painter David Alfaro Siqueiros.\nIt was started early in the 1970s and completed before Siqueiros died in 1974.\nThe building's exterior is a dodecahedron, while the interior is an octagon.\nIt was built by the architects Guillermo Rossell de la Lama, Ramón Miquela Jáuregui and Joaquín Álvarez Ordonéz.\nSuárez built a workshop for Siqueiros in Cuernavaca, La Tallera, to help him work as efficiently as possible.\nThe Polyforum has twelve huge exterior panels holding murals by Siqueros that depict the March of Humanity, showing the evolution from the past to the present and giving a view of the future. Most of the other surfaces of the building were also painted by Siqueros, making the building's exterior the largest mural in the world.\nThe exterior mural covers over and depicts the march of humanity on Earth towards the Cosmos.\nThe interior depicts the march of humanity in Latin America.\nMost of the murals of the Polyforum were taken from drawings that Siqueros made while in prison for his revolutionary opinions in 1960–64.\n\nDon Manuel Suárez died in Mexico City in 1987 at the age of 91.\nHe was buried in the pantheon of Santa Cruz del Pedregal.\n\nSuárez amassed a collection of around 4,000 paintings.\nThe Museo Mural Diego Rivera holds 50 pieces from his huge collection.\nHe married twice and had twenty children: Manuel, Sergio, José, Jorge, Miguel Angel, Carlos, Lilia, Raquel, Silvia, Marisol, Margarita, Maricarmen, Concepción, Alfredo, Marcos, Manuel, Angélica, Beatriz, Ernesto and Fernando.\nIn August 1987 it was reported that Hyatt would lend $30 million to the Suárez Group to complete the first 400 rooms on the ten highest levels of his hotel for what would now be called the Hotel de México Hyatt.\nEventually the Hotel de México was converted into the World Trade Center, an office building, in 1995.\nIn July 2005 the World Trade Center was sold at auction for $58 million by the government's Fondo Bancario de Protección al Ahorro (Fobaproa).\nThe Casino de la Selva was demolished in the fall of 2002 and replaced by two large box stores.\n\n"}
{"id": "36303668", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36303668", "title": "Meriwether Lewis Anderson", "text": "Meriwether Lewis Anderson\n\nDr. Meriwether Lewis Anderson (June 23, 1805 - March 5, 1862) was a prominent Virginia physician and politician.\n\nAnderson was born at \"Locust Hill\" in Albemarle County, Virginia to Edmund Anderson and Jane Meriwether Lewis, the sister of Meriwether Lewis. He graduated from the University of Virginia and went on to get a degree in medicine from the University of Pennsylvania School of Medicine. After qualifying as a physician he moved to Mississippi to begin his practice and take up farming. Anderson returned to Virginia in 1837 upon inheriting his maternal grandmother's estate and became a well known and respected physician of the Piedmont region. His prominence in Albemarle county resulted in his election to the Virginia Legislature in 1861. Anderson died several months after his election in 1862.\n\nAnderson married Lucy Sydnor Harper (1811–1885) in 1831; the daughter of Charles and Lucy Smither Harper. The couple had five children including Meriwether Lewis Anderson, Jr who was killed at the Battle of Fisher's Hill in 1864. The Andersons also adopted several nieces and nephews in addition to their own.\n\nAnderson was born at Locust Hill the home of his grandmother Lucy Meriwether Lewis. The estate was acquired in 1730 by his great-grandfather Col. Robert Lewis. Anderson had spent most of his life at Locust Hill in part due to his fathers inadequacies in business. He inherited the property on the death of his grandmother in 1837 shortly after which the main house burned down. Anderson is responsible for the current house which stands at Locust Hill today. The estate is also the birthplace of his uncle Meriwether Lewis.\n\n"}
{"id": "54440850", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54440850", "title": "Mustapha Bakkoury", "text": "Mustapha Bakkoury\n\nMustapha Bakkoury (Arabic: مصطفى البكوري; born 20 December 1964, Mohammedia, Morocco) is a Moroccan businessman, engineer and politician. He is chairman of the board of the Moroccan Solar Energy Agency and the council president of the Casablanca-Settat region. He was born in Mohammedia, but is a native of Taounate.\n\nBakkoury is an engineer who graduated from the École des ponts ParisTech in 1990 and holds a DESS in banking and finance.\n\nFrom 1989 to 1991, he was the head of junior projects at BNP Paribas in the department of large international projects. He was also senior project manager at the BNP Intercontinentale in the department of Financial Engineering. By the end of 1991, he was responsible for their financial activities, and then from 1993 to 1995, was responsible for the clientele of large companies within the BMCI, a subsidiary of BNP Paribas. From 1995 to 1998, he was responsible for the development and financing of the activities of the National Society for Municipal Planning (SONADAC), a mixed company, he was responsible for major development projects in the metropolis of Casablanca. From 1998 to 2001, he was in charge of the business banking division at BMCI.\n\nFrom 2001 to 13 June 2009, he was appointed by the king of Morocco Mohammed VI to be the General Manager of the Caisse de dépôt et de gestion. On 30 December 2009, King Mohammed VI appointed him as chairman of the board of the Moroccan Solar Energy Agency.\n\nBakkoury's first steps into politics came in 2007 when he joined the Movement of All Democrats founded by Fouad Ali El Himma, which later became the Authenticity and Modernity Party. On 19 February 2012, he was elected Secretary General of the Authenticity and Modernity Party. During the communal and regional elections of 2015, he presented himself in Mohammedia and his party won 8 out of 47 seats.\n\nOn 14 September 2015, he was elected council president of the Casablanca-Settat region with the support of the elected RNI.\n\n"}
{"id": "19469070", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19469070", "title": "National Public Lands Day", "text": "National Public Lands Day\n\nNational Public Lands Day is celebrated annually at public lands in the United States on the fourth Saturday of September. A signature event of the National Environmental Education Foundation, it promotes both popular enjoyment and volunteer conservation of public lands.\n\nThree federal agencies and 700 volunteers launched the first National Public Lands Day in 1994. By 2010, participation grew to 170,000 volunteers at over 2,000 sites across the country, the District of Columbia and U.S. territories. In addition to National Public Lands Day being a fee-free day (free entry day) at many federally managed lands, volunteers who participate at federal land sites are rewarded with coupons for free entry into their favorite federal public land areas that have entrance fees.\n\nThe 2008 event featured an initiative to plant one million trees in honor of the 75th anniversary of the Civilian Conservation Corps. This goal was exceeded, with more than 1.6 million trees planted. The 2009 event featured a preview of \"\", which began airing the next night on PBS stations nationwide. The preview was sent to each national park on DVD and aired in their visitor center auditoriums. Other National Public Lands Day events occurred on September 24, 2011 and September 29, 2012. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "30856562", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30856562", "title": "Nicolas Lehotzky", "text": "Nicolas Lehotzky\n\nNicolas Lehotzky is a Swiss entrepreneur. Lehotzky came to international attention in 2008 for presenting a line of wristwatches stylized to resemble Caterpillar machinery, bicycle parts and automotive components.\n"}
{"id": "52416775", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52416775", "title": "Ogden Goelet", "text": "Ogden Goelet\n\nOgden Goelet (June 11, 1851 New York City – August 27, 1897 Cowes, Isle of Wight) was an American heir, businessman and yachtsman from New York City during the Gilded Age. With his wife, he built Ochre Court in Newport, Rhode Island, his son built Glenmere mansion, and his daughter, Mary Goelet, married Henry Innes-Ker, 8th Duke of Roxburghe.\n\nOgden Goelet was born on September 29, 1851 in Manhattan, New York City to Sarah Ogden (1809–1888) and Robert Goelet (1809–1879). His father was a prominent landlord in New York City, as was his uncle, Peter Goelet, who was named after Peter Goelet, Ogden's great-grandfather. His parents resided at 5 State Street, overlooking the Battery in Manhattan.\n\nGoelet's older brother was real estate developer Robert Goelet, and his nephew was Robert Walton Goelet. His paternal aunt, Hannah Green Goelet, was married to Thomas Russell Gerry, a son of U.S. Vice President Elbridge Gerry. Through this marriage, Goelet was a first cousin of Elbridge Thomas Gerry.\n\nAlong with his brother, he managed the real estate of his father, Robert Goelet, and his uncle Peter Goelet, who both died in 1879. After his father and uncles deaths, he inherited almost half their fortune, along with his brother. In New York, he was one of the stockholders of the Metropolitan Opera House, holding Box No. 1.\n\nIn 1892, Goelet and his wife Mary were included in Ward McAllister's \"Four Hundred\", purported to be an index of New York's best families, published in \"The New York Times\". Conveniently, 400 was the number of people that could fit into Mrs. Astor's ballroom. Mary was known as one of the viceregal leaders of the Ultra-fashionable 150, among Mrs. Astor, Mrs. Ogden Mills, Mrs. John Jacob Astor, and Mrs. Cornelius Vanderbilt Jr.\n\n He had several yachts including his schooner, \"Norseman\" that was designed by William Townsend and built in 1881 at the Richard & Cornelius Poillon shipyard in Brooklyn. From 1893 he also chartered Lillie Langtry's yacht the White Ladye. His final yacht was named \"Mayflower\" and was designed by George Lennox Watson in 1896 and built on the Clyde (Scotland) by J & G Thompson. After Goelet's death the yacht was sold to the US Navy and became the famous USS Mayflower (PY-1). Goelet's brother, Robert, had an almost identical yacht built at the same time and in the same yard and this later became USS Nahma (SP-771).\n\nHe and his wife owned a townhouse at 608 Fifth Avenue in New York City and a villa in Nice, France. When in London, they resided at Wimbourne House.\n\nIn 1892, he and his wife commissioned Ochre Court, a châteauesque mansion in Newport, Rhode Island. The home was built at a cost of $4.5 million and was the second largest mansion in Newport after nearby The Breakers, both designed by architect Richard Morris Hunt.\n\nIn 1878, he married Mary Rita Wilson (1855–1929), daughter of Richard Thornton Wilson Sr. and Melissa Clementine Johnston. Her siblings included the banker Richard Thornton Wilson Jr. and socialite Grace Graham Wilson, who was married to Cornelius Vanderbilt III. Together, they were the parents of two children:\n\n\nHe was a member of the New York Yacht Club for 17 years, as well as the Knickerbocker Club, Metropolitan Club, and Union Club.\n\nOn August 27, 1897, after over five years spent abroad, Goelet died aboard his yacht in the town of Cowes in the Isle of Wight after having been ill for two months. He had been attended to by William Broadbent, doctor to the Prince of Wales, with whom he was close friends. His family and body sailed back to the United States and his funeral was held aboard his yacht in Newport and he was buried at Woodlawn Cemetery (Bronx, New York). In his will, he left his entire estate to his wife and two children. His widow died in 1929.\n"}
{"id": "41264758", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41264758", "title": "Process chemistry", "text": "Process chemistry\n\nProcess chemistry is the arm of pharmaceutical chemistry concerned with the development and optimization of a synthetic scheme and pilot plant procedure to manufacture compounds for the drug development phase. Process chemistry is distinguished from medicinal chemistry, which is the arm of pharmaceutical chemistry tasked with designing and synthesizing molecules on small scale in the early drug discovery phase.\n\nMedicinal chemists are largely concerned with synthesizing a large number of compounds as quickly as possible from easily tunable chemical building blocks (usually for SAR studies). In general, the repertoire of reactions utilized in discovery chemistry is somewhat narrow (for example, the Buchwald-Hartwig amination, Suzuki coupling and reductive amination are commonplace reactions). In contrast, process chemists are tasked with identifying a chemical process that is safe, cost and labor efficient, “green,” and reproducible, among other considerations. Oftentimes, in searching for the shortest, most efficient synthetic route, process chemists must devise creative synthetic solutions that eliminate costly functional group manipulations and oxidation/reduction steps.\n\nThis article focuses exclusively on the chemical and manufacturing processes associated with the production of small molecule drugs. Biological medical products (more commonly called “biologics”) represent a growing proportion of approved therapies, but the manufacturing processes of these products are beyond the scope of this article. Additionally, the many complex factors associated with chemical plant engineering (for example, heat transfer and reactor design) and drug formulation will be treated cursorily.\n\nCost efficiency is of paramount importance in process chemistry and, consequently, is a focus in the consideration of pilot plant synthetic routes. The drug substance that is manufactured, prior to formulation, is commonly referred to as the active pharmaceutical ingredient (API) and will be referred to as such herein. API production cost can be broken into two components: the “material cost” and the “conversion cost.” The ecological and environmental impact of a synthetic process should also be evaluated by an appropriate metric (e.g. the EcoScale).\n\nAn ideal process chemical route will score well in each of these metrics, but inevitably tradeoffs are to be expected. Most large pharmaceutical process chemistry and manufacturing divisions have devised weighted quantitative schemes to measure the overall attractiveness of a given synthetic route over another. As cost is a major driver, material cost and volume-time output are typically weighted heavily.\n\nThe material cost of a chemical process is the sum of the costs of all raw materials, intermediates, reagents, solvents and catalysts procured from external vendors. Material costs may influence the selection of one synthetic route over another or the decision to outsource production of an intermediate.\n\nThe conversion cost of a chemical process is a factor of that procedure's overall efficiency, both in materials and time, and its reproducibility. The efficiency of a chemical process can be quantified by its atom economy, yield, volume-time output, and environmental factor (E-factor), and its reproducibility can be evaluated by the Quality Service Level (QSL) and Process Excellence Index (PEI) metrics.\n\nThe atom economy of a reaction is defined as the number of atoms from the starting materials that are incorporated into the final product. Atom economy can be viewed as an indicator of the “efficiency” of a given synthetic route.\n\nformula_1\n\nFor example, the Claisen rearrangement and the Diels-Alder cycloaddition are examples of reaction that are 100 percent atom economical. On the other hand, a prototypical Wittig reaction has especially poor atom economy (merely 20 percent in the example shown).\n\nProcess synthetic routes should be designed such that atom economy is maximized for the entire synthetic scheme. Consequently, “costly” reagents such as protecting groups and high molecular weight leaving groups should be avoided where possible. An atom economy value in the range of 70 to 90 percent for an API synthesis is ideal, but it may be impractical or impossible to access certain complex targets within this range. Nevertheless, atom economy is a good metric to compare two routes to the same molecule.\n\nYield is defined as the amount of product obtained in a chemical reaction the yield of practical significance in process chemistry is the isolated yield—the yield of the isolated product after all purification steps. In a final API synthesis, isolated yields of 80 percent or above for each synthetic step are expected. The definition of an acceptable yield depends entirely on the importance of the product and the ways in which available technologies come together to allow their efficient application; yields approaching 100% are termed quantitative, and yields above 90% are broadly understood as excellent.\n\nThere are several strategies that are employed in the design of a process route to ensure adequate overall yield of the pharmaceutical product. The first is the concept of convergent synthesis. Assuming a very good to excellent yield in each synthetic step, the overall yield of a multistep reaction can be maximized by combining several key intermediates at a late stage that are prepared independently from each other.\n\nAnother strategy to maximize isolated yield (as well as time efficiency) is the concept of telescoping synthesis (also called one-pot synthesis). This approach describes the process of eliminating workup and purification steps from a reaction sequence, typically by simply adding reagents sequentially to a reactor. In this way, unnecessary losses from these steps can be avoided.\n\nFinally, to minimize overall cost, synthetic steps involving expensive reagents, solvents or catalysts should be designed into the process route as late stage as possible, to minimize the amount of reagent used.\n\nIn a pilot plant or manufacturing plant setting, yield can have a profound effect on the material cost of an API synthesis, so the careful planning of a robust route and the fine-tuning of reaction conditions are crucially important. After a synthetic route has been selected, process chemists will subject each step to exhaustive optimization in order to maximize overall yield. Low yields are typically indicative of unwanted side product formation, which can raise red flags in the regulatory process as well as pose challenges for reactor cleaning operations.\n\nThe volume-time output (VTO) of a chemical process represents the cost of occupancy of a chemical reactor for a particular process or API synthesis. For example, a high VTO indicates that a particular synthetic step is costly in terms of “reactor hours” used for a given output. Mathematically, the VTO for a particular process is calculated by the total volume of all reactors (m) that are occupied times the hours per batch divided by the output for that batch of API or intermediate (measured in kg).\n\nThe process chemistry group at Boehringer-Ingelheim, for example, targets a VTO of less than 1 for any given synthetic step or chemical process.\n\nAdditionally, the raw conversion cost of an API synthesis (in dollars per batch) can be calculated from the VTO, given the operating cost and usable capacity of a particular reactor. Oftentimes, for large-volume APIs, it is economical to build a dedicated production plant rather than to use space in general pilot plants or manufacturing plants.\n\nBoth of these measures, which capture the environmental impact of a synthetic reaction, intend to capture the significant and rising cost of waste disposal in the manufacturing process. The E-factor for an entire API process is computed by the ratio of the total mass of waste generated in the synthetic scheme to the mass of product isolated.\n\nformula_4\n\nA similar measure, the process mass intensity (PMI) calculates the ratio of the total mass of materials to the mass of the isolated product.\n\nformula_5\n\nFor both metrics, all materials used in all synthetic steps, including reaction and workup solvents, reagents and catalysts, are counted, even if solvents or catalysts are recycled in practice. Inconsistencies in E-factor or PMI computations may arise when choosing to consider the waste associated with the synthesis of outsourced intermediates or common reagents. Additionally, the environmental impact of the generated waste is ignored in this calculation; therefore, the environmental quotient (EQ) metric was devised, which multiplies the E-factor by an “unfriendliness quotient” associated with various waste streams. A reasonable target for the E-factor or PMI of a single synthetic step is any value between 10 and 40.\n\nThe final two \"conversion cost\" considerations involve the reproducibility of a given reaction or API synthesis route. The quality service level (QSL) is a measure of the reproducibility of the quality of the isolated intermediate or final API. While the details of computing this value are slightly nuanced and unimportant for the purposes of this article, in essence, the calculation involves the ratio of satisfactory quality batches to the total number of batches. A reasonable QSL target is 98 to 100 percent.\n\nLike the QSL, the process excellence index (PEI) is a measure of process reproducibility. Here, however, the robustness of the procedure is evaluated in terms of yield and cycle time of various operations. The PEI yield is defined as follows:\n\nformula_6\n\nIn practice, if a process is high-yielding and has a narrow distribution of yield outcomes, then the PEI should be very high. Processes that are not easily reproducible may have a higher aspiration level yield and a lower average yield, lowering the PEI yield.\n\nSimilarly, a PEI cycle time may be defined as follows:\n\nformula_7\n\nFor this expression, the terms are inverted to reflect the desirability of shorter cycle times (as opposed to higher yields). The reproducibility of cycle times for critical processes such as reaction, centrifugation or drying may be critical if these operations are rate-limiting in the manufacturing plant setting. For example, if an isolation step is particularly difficult or slow, it could become the bottleneck for an API synthesis, in which case the reproducibility and optimization of that operation become critical.\n\nFor an API manufacturing process, all PEI metrics (yield and cycle times) should be targeted at 98 to 100 percent.\n\nIn 2006, Van Aken, et al. developed a quantitative framework to evaluate the safety and ecological impact of a chemical process, as well as minor weighting of practical and economical considerations. Others have modified this EcoScale by adding, subtracting and adjusting the weighting of various metrics. Among other factors, the EcoScale takes into account the toxicity, flammability and explosive stability of reagents used, any nonstandard or potentially hazardous reaction conditions (for example, elevated pressure or inert atmosphere), and reaction temperature. Some EcoScale criteria are redundant with previously considered criteria (e.g. E-factor).\n\nMacrocyclization is a recurrent challenge for process chemists, and large pharmaceutical companies have necessarily developed creative strategies to overcome these inherent limitations. An interesting case study in this area involves the development of novel NS3 protease inhibitors to treat Hepatitis C patients by scientists at Boehringer-Ingelheim. The process chemistry team at BI was tasked with developing a cheaper and more efficient route to the active NS3 inhibitor BI 201302, a close analog of BILN 2061. Two significant shortcomings were immediately identified with the initial scale-up route to BILN 2061, depicted in the scheme below. The macrocyclization step posed four challenges inherent to the cross-metathesis reaction.\n\n\nAdditionally, the final double S2 sequence to install the quinoline heterocycle was identified as a secondary inefficiency in the synthetic route.\n\nAnalysis of the cross-methathesis reaction revealed that the conformation of the acyclic precursor had a profound impact on the formation of dimers and oligomers in the reaction mixture. By installing a Boc protecting group at the C-4 amide nitrogen, the Boehringer-Ingelheim chemists were able to shift the site of initiation from the vinylcyclopropane moiety to the nonenoic acid moiety, improving the rate of the intramolecular reaction and decreasing the risk of epimerization. Additionally, the catalyst employed was switched from the expensive 1st generation Hoveyda catalyst to the more reactive, less expensive Grela catalyst. These modifications allowed the process chemists to run the reaction at a standard reaction dilution of 0.1-0.2 M, given that the rates of competing dimerization and oligomerization reactions was so dramatically reduced.\n\nAdditionally, the process chemistry team envisioned a SAr strategy to install the quinoline heterocycle, instead of the S2 strategy that they had employed for the synthesis of BILN 2061. This modification prevented the need for inefficient double inversion by proceeding through retention of stereochemistry at the C-4 position of the hydroxyproline moiety.\n\nIt is interesting to examine this case study from a VTO perspective. For the unoptimized cross-metathesis reaction using the Grela catalyst at 0.01 M diene, the reaction yield was determined to be 82 percent after a reaction and workup time of 48 hours. A 6-cubic meter reactor filled to 80% capacity afforded 35 kg of desired product. For the unoptimized reaction:\n\nformula_8\n\nThis VTO value was considered prohibitively high and a steep investment in a dedicated plant would have been necessary even before launching Phase III trials with this API, given its large projected annual demand. But after reaction development and optimization, the process team was able to improve the reaction yield to 93 percent after just 1 hour (plus 12 hours for workup and reactor cleaning time) at a diene concentration of 0.2 M. With these modifications, a 6-cubic meter reactor filled to 80% capacity afforded 799 kg of desired product. For this optimized reaction:\n\nformula_9\n\nThus, after optimization, this synthetic step became less costly in terms of equipment and time and more practical to perform in a standard manufacturing facility, eliminating the need for a costly investment in a new dedicated plant.\n\nRecently, large pharmaceutical process chemists have relied heavily on the development of enzymatic reactions to produce important chiral building blocks for API synthesis. Many varied classes of naturally occurring enzymes have been co-opted and engineered for process pharmaceutical chemistry applications. The widest range of applications come from ketoreductases and transaminases, but there are isolated examples from hydrolases, aldolases, oxidative enzymes, esterases and dehalogenases, among others.\n\nOne of the most prominent uses of biocatalysis in process chemistry today is in the synthesis of Januvia®, a DPP-4 inhibitor developed by Merck for the management of type II diabetes. The traditional process synthetic route involved a late-stage enamine formation followed by rhodium-catalyzed asymmetric hydrogenation to afford the API sitagliptin. This process suffered from a number of limitations, including the need to run the reaction under a high-pressure hydrogen environment, the high cost of a transition-metal catalyst, the difficult process of carbon treatment to remove trace amounts of catalyst and insufficient stereoselectivity, requiring a subsequent recrystallization step before final salt formation.\n\nMerck’s process chemistry department contracted Codexis, a medium-sized biocatalysis firm, to develop a large-scale biocatalytic reductive amination for the final step of its sitagliptin synthesis. Codexis engineered a transaminase enzyme from the bacteria Arthrobacter through 11 rounds of directed evolution. The engineered transaminase contained 27 individual point mutations and displayed activity four orders of magnitude greater than the parent enzyme. Additionally, the enzyme was engineered to handle high substrate concentrations (100 g/L) and to tolerate the organic solvents, reagents and byproducts of the transamination reaction. This biocatalytic route successfully avoided the limitations of the chemocatalyzed hydrogenation route: the requirements to run the reaction under high pressure, to remove excess catalyst by carbon treatment and to recrystallize the product due to insufficient enantioselectivity were obviated by the use of a biocatalyst. Merck and Codexis were awarded the Presidential Green Chemistry Challenge Award in 2010 for the development of this biocatalytic route toward Januvia®.\n\nIn recent years, much progress has been made in the development and optimization of flow reactors for small-scale chemical synthesis (the Jamison Group at MIT and Ley Group at Cambridge University, among others, have pioneered efforts in this field). The pharmaceutical industry, however, has been slow to adopt this technology for large-scale synthetic operations. For certain reactions, however, continuous processing may possess distinct advantages over batch processing in terms of safety, quality and throughput.\n\nA case study of particular interest involves the development of a fully continuous process by the process chemistry group at Eli Lilly and Company for an asymmetric hydrogenation to access a key intermediate in the synthesis of LY500307, a potent ERβ agonist that is entering clinical trials for the treatment of patients with schizophrenia, in addition to a regimen of standard antipsychotic medications. In this key synthetic step, a chiral rhodium-catalyst is used for the enantioselective reduction of a tetrasubstituted olefin. After extensive optimization, it was found that in order to reduce the catalyst loading to a commercially practical level, the reaction required hydrogen pressure up to 70 atm. The pressure limit of a standard chemical reactor is about 10 atm, although high-pressure batch reactors may be acquired at significant capital cost for reactions up to 100 atm. Especially for an API in the early stages of chemical development, such an investment clearly bears a large risk.\n\nAn additional concern was that the hydrogenation product has an unfavorable eutectic point, so it was impossible to isolate the crude intermediate in more than 94 percent ee by batch process. Because of this limitation, the process chemistry route toward LY500307 necessarily involved a kinetically controlled crystallization step after the hydrogenation to upgrade the enantiopurity of this penultimate intermediate to >99 percent ee.\n\nThe process chemistry team at Eli Lilly successfully developed a fully continuous process to this penultimate intermediate, including reaction, workup and kinetically controlled crystallization modules (the engineering considerations implicit in these efforts are beyond the scope of this article). An advantage of flow reactors is that high-pressure tubing can be utilized for hydrogenation and other hyperbaric reactions. Because the head space of a batch reactor is eliminated, however, many of the safety concerns associated with running high-pressure reactions are obviated by the use of a continuous process reactor. Additionally, a two-stage mixed suspension-mixed product removal (MSMPR) module was designed for the scalable, continuous, kinetically controlled crystallization of the product, so it was possible to isolate in >99 percent ee, eliminating the need for an additional batch crystallization step.\n\nThis continuous process afforded 144 kg of the key intermediate in 86 percent yield, comparable with a 90 percent isolated yield using the batch process. This 73-liter pilot-scale flow reactor (occupying less than 0.5 m space) achieved the same weekly throughput as theoretical batch processing in a 400-liter reactor. Therefore, the continuous flow process demonstrates advantages in safety, efficiency (eliminates the need for batch crystallization) and throughput, compared with a theoretical batch process.\n\nInstitute of Process Research & Development, University of Leeds\n"}
{"id": "30872348", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30872348", "title": "Queen's Awards for Enterprise", "text": "Queen's Awards for Enterprise\n\nThe Queen's Awards for Enterprise is an awards programme for British businesses and other organizations who excel at international trade, innovation or sustainable development. They are the highest official UK awards for British businesses. The scheme was established as The Queen's Award to Industry by a royal warrant of 30 November 1965, and individual categories have been known in the past as The Queen's Awards for Export, Export Achievement, Technology, Technological Achievement and Environmental Achievement. The scheme also includes an award for individuals, The Queen's Award for Enterprise Promotion.\n\nEvery April winners of the Queen’s Awards for Enterprise are officially announced in a special Gazette supplement. The Queen's Award to Industry, the scheme's original title, was instituted by Royal Warrant in 1965. It became the Queen's Awards for Export and Technology in 1975, with Environmental Achievement added in 1992. In 1999, the scheme became the Queen's Awards for Enterprise with International Trade, Innovation and Sustainable Development as the categories. In 2017, a fourth category was introduced, Promoting Opportunity (through social mobility). Since 2005, individuals have also been recognised with the Queen's Award for Enterprise Promotion. As of 2017, this individual award has been rested.\n\nThe total numbers of winners in each class each year are shown below.\n\nThe Queen's Award for Enterprise Promotion is awarded to individuals. Unlike the Queen's Award for Enterprise, nomination must be by a third party. As of 2017, this individual award has been rested.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33232239", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33232239", "title": "Repeat-player effect", "text": "Repeat-player effect\n\nIn arbitration, the repeat-player effect is a proposition that, outside of the collective bargaining context, employers attain more favorable outcomes in arbitration. Factors contributing to the repeat-player effect include employers' having more information to gain an advantage in the arbitrator selection process, as well as influence on arbitrators, who may want to rule in the employer's favor to be selected in future arbitrations.\n"}
{"id": "20325406", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20325406", "title": "The Complex: How the Military Invades Our Everyday Lives", "text": "The Complex: How the Military Invades Our Everyday Lives\n\nThe Complex: How the Military Invades Our Everyday Lives is a book about the United States military, written by journalist Nick Turse. It was published in 2008 in hardcover format by Metropolitan Books. The book describes the vast changes in the industrial complex of the U.S. military from the days of President Dwight D. Eisenhower to 2008, its effect on American society, and how the military and private business spheres interact with each other. The book received positive reviews in Mother Jones and \"Inter Press Service\", and critical reviews by Jeffrey St. Clair of \"CounterPunch\", and in \"Kirkus Reviews\".\n\nNick Turse received a Ph.D. from Columbia University in Sociomedical Sciences. His Ph.D. dissertation is titled: \" \"'Kill Anything That Moves': United States War Crimes and Atrocites in Vietnam, 1965–1973\" \", and it utilized the war-crime archive and historical texts to analyze the doctrine of atrocity. Turse is the research director of TomDispatch.com, a project of \"The Nation Institute\". He is the recipient of a James Aronson Award for Social Justice Journalism, and in 2009 received a Ridenhour Prize for Reportorial Distinction. \"The Complex\" is Turse's first book.\n\nNick Turse explores how the industrial complex of the United States military has pervaded the everyday lives of Americans. Turse investigates the relationship between the Pentagon and the Hollywood entertainment industry, military actions in the civilian sphere, and joint projects between the U.S. military and companies including NASCAR and Marvel Comics. Turse describes how military tacticians and flyers were outfitted with Apple PowerBooks. He illustrates how the military has attempted innovative methods to reach out to and recruit contemporary youth, including making \"friends\" on MySpace. Turse notes that the research and development budget of the military, and its spending in the private sector, has increased dramatically over the last few years. The book posits that many changes have occurred since President Dwight D. Eisenhower's military-industrial complex, and relates the changes to the present day.\n\nThe book was reviewed in \"Kirkus Reviews\", where it was recommended: \"For those who like their journalism fevered and their politics pat.\" Tom Engelhardt of \"Mother Jones\" magazine wrote, \"It's an eye-opener on the degree to which we are, without realizing it, a militarized society.\" Engelhardt called \"The Complex\" a \"superb book\". Jeffrey St. Clair of \"CounterPunch\" was critical, and commented: \"This is a Bush-bashing book that maliciously elides the uncomfortable fact that many of the contractor scandals that penetrated the mainstream press in Bush-time where \"[sic]\" actually set in motion in the 1990s.\" Chris Barsanti of \"PopMatters\" gave the book a rating of 3 out of a possible 10, and wrote, \"\"The Complex\" is an airless and rather pointless recitation of facts that feels cut-and-pasted rather than written.\"\n\nAli Gharib reviewed the book for \"Inter Press Service\", and noted: \"Turse's book carefully tracks the Defense Department's money trail to everything from traditional defense contractors to a handful of Southern catfish restaurants to Dunkin' Donuts.\" Victoria Segal of \"The Guardian\" reviewed the book and commented, \"Much of Turse's research holds the Pentagon up to ridicule: their golf courses, the fast-food-addicted army that waddles rather than marches on its stomach. Yet the book turns sinister when it exposes desperate recruiters who allow white supremacists to join up, or defence department plans to develop 'weaponised' moths and sharks. References to The Matrix could make Turse seem a paranoid geek. Unfortunately, this is no sci-fi fantasy.\" David Swanson of \"Political Affairs Magazine\" wrote, \"Nick Turse has done something pretty amazing in producing an entertaining account of the almost limitless variety of ways in which our money is wasted by what he calls the military industrial technological entertainment academic media corporate matrix, or 'The Complex' for short\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25716685", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25716685", "title": "TopGun Designation", "text": "TopGun Designation\n\nThe TopGun Designation in the capital markets is awarded by Brendan Wood International. The designation is based upon over 10,000 debriefings globally with portfolio managers, CEOs, CFOs, other senior corporate executives, leading broker analysts and traders.\n\nCorporates executives assess their TopGun Investment Bankers. TopGun Portfolio managers are awarded based upon the evaluations provided by leading broker analysts.\n\nInfluential investors nominate TopGun CEOs, CFOs, Companies, and the Boards who earn their highest investor confidence votes. Investors also evaluate their top broker analyst and institutional sales professionals. TopGun traders are awarded based on the input from buy side traders.\n\nRecipients often include the TopGun designation in their resumes and on their websites. The designation has been featured on many leading news outlets.\n\nThe designation is awarded annually or every two years depending on the discipline and capital markets activity.\n\nThe first ever TopGun Ball was held in Toronto for charity, “A Fusion of Performance and Philanthropy”, and will be mirrored in Palm Beach, New York City, London and Hong Kong.\n\nhttps://archive.is/20130123212734/http://www.forbes.com/2009/06/22/top-gun-ceos-intelligent-investing-survey_slide.html\nhttps://web.archive.org/web/20100119084916/http://kinross.com/about-kinross/our-history/2009.aspx\nhttp://www.canadianbusiness.com/markets/marketwire/article.jsp?content=20090902_181511_12_ccn_ccn\nhttp://blogs.reuters.com/great-debate/tag/topgun-ceo/\n\n"}
{"id": "2088103", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2088103", "title": "Toshio Arima", "text": "Toshio Arima\n\nHe was educated at International Christian University College of Liberal Arts, Division of Social Sciences, graduating in 1967, after which he joined Fuji Xerox of which he became President and Representative Director in 2002.\nUnder his direction, the company created a new business vision called Open Office Frontier or OOF. He became a member of United Nations Global Compact in 2007.\n"}
{"id": "16737141", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16737141", "title": "Virtual airline (economics)", "text": "Virtual airline (economics)\n\nIn economics, a virtual airline is an airline that has outsourced as many possible operational and business functions as it can, but still maintains effective control of its core business. Such an airline focuses on operating a network of air services, and outsourcing non-core activities to other organizations. Contracting out services within the aviation industry has reportedly become so common that many carriers could be classed as having features of a virtual airline, although it is arguable whether any current carriers meet a strict definition of the term.\n\nThe term is also used to describe travel companies and ticket agencies that market themselves as airlines, but are unlicensed and with flights undertaken by licensed operators often in the livery of the virtual airline.\n\nVirtual airlines originated following the drastic changes brought about by the Airline Deregulation Act of 1978. During the hyper-competitive years immediately following deregulation, major airlines found it increasingly unprofitable to compete against start-up carriers on many routes they currently served. Instead of forfeiting the routes entirely, the larger carriers often made marketing arrangements with smaller airlines to fly under the \"banner\", or aircraft livery, of the larger airline. These regional airlines, mimicking the well known major airlines in adverts and prescribing to make connections as seamless as possible, soon abandoned their own local service routes. In most cases, the regional airlines found it more profitable to serve the mainline hubs as a feeder operation rather than operate on their own.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4036355", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4036355", "title": "William Black (Methodist)", "text": "William Black (Methodist)\n\nWilliam Black (November 10, 1760 – September 8, 1834) was a Yorkshireman and founder of the Methodist congregation in colonial Nova Scotia.\n\nBlack's daughter married the merchant and politician John Alexander Barry, who was the son of Robert Barry, a prominent businessman and Methodist. His son, Martin Gay Black, became a prominent businessman and also furthered the Methodist cause in Nova Scotia.\n\n"}
{"id": "44372289", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44372289", "title": "Woo Paik", "text": "Woo Paik\n\nWoo Paik or Paik Woo-hyun (born November 6, 1948) is a Korean engineer and inventor. Paik’s contributions to digital television have been recognized through numerous awards and honors, and for this reason, he is sometimes referred to as the \"Father of HDTV.\" He is the author of numerous technical papers and co-inventor of more than 25 inventions earning U.S. Patents in the area of digital video compression, digital transmission, and digital signal processing.\n\nPaik earned his doctorate in electrical and electronics engineering from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, and his masters and bachelors in engineering degrees from Seoul National University. Most recently, he was President and Chief Technology Officer (CTO) for LG Electronics. Prior to that, he was Executive Vice President, Technology for the General Instrument Communications Division (later the broadband division of Motorola) until 1996. There, he led the Advanced Development team that vaulted General Instrument to the forefront of digital television technology. His team developed the DigiCipher HDTV system in 1990, which is the world's first all-digital HDTV system.\n\nPaik was inducted into the Consumer Electronics Hall of Fame and the Academy of Digital Television Pioneers, in 2004. He received the Digital Television Pioneers Award from Broadcasting & Cable Magazine in 2000, the Arthur C. Clark Award from the Satellite Broadcasting and Communications Association in 1999, a technical Emmy Award from the Academy of Television Arts & Sciences for his outstanding digital television achievements in 1996 and the Matti S. Siukola Memorial Award from the IEEE Broadcast Technology Society in 1991.\n"}
{"id": "4866341", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4866341", "title": "Ziarul Financiar", "text": "Ziarul Financiar\n\nZiarul Financiar is a daily financial newspaper published in Bucharest, Romania. Aside from business information, it features sections focusing on careers and properties, as well as a special Sunday newspaper. \"Ziarul Financiar\" also publishes Transylvanian, Proprietati, Ziarul de duminica, Profesii, Dupa afaceri, supplements and a monthly magazine, \"go4it!\", which is provided freely to the newspaper's subscribers.\n\n\n"}
