{"id": "53235680", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53235680", "title": "1st National Geographic Bee", "text": "1st National Geographic Bee\n\nThe 1st National Geographic Bee was held in Washington, D.C. on May 19, 1989, sponsored by the National Geographic Society. The final competition was moderated by Jeopardy! host Alex Trebek. The winner was Jack Staddon of Great Bend Seventh-day Adventist Elementary School in Great Bend, Kansas, who won a $25,000 college scholarship. The 2nd-place winner, Michael Shannon of Reading, Massachusetts, won a $15,000 scholarship. The 3rd-place winner, Kieu Luu of Riverdale, Maryland, won a $10,000 scholarship.\n\n"}
{"id": "8216305", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8216305", "title": "A172 road (England)", "text": "A172 road (England)\n\nThe A172 is a major road in North Yorkshire, and the unitary authority of Middlesbrough, England. It runs from Ingleby Arncliffe to Middlesbrough. The road derives its adumbrated number from 1969 when a thoroughfare link connected South Teesside with the Lackenby Docks in Middlesbrough. Since further urban infrastructure development it has been extended into the North Yorkshire Moors, when it transforms into A174.\n\nMarton Road is that part of the length of the A172 that links Middlesbrough to Ladgate Lane. In 1960 Middlesbrough County Borough Council identified a need for the imposition of a speed limit to control congestion in the city.\n\nMarton Road itself runs from the centre of Middlesbrough, starting at around the site of the old St. John's Church and runs to Marton Crossroads at Ladgate Lane. Along its route the road passes several sites of local interest, including the James Cook University Hospital, and Stewart Park. The road can become congested and is famous locally for the \"Marton Crawl\" which happens during peak times. The Marton Crawl can take anything up to 20 minutes to get from Middlesbrough town centre to Marton itself. This section of the road has ten speed cameras.\n\nPannierman Lane is that part of the road that is part of the Nunthorpe by-pass, and continues to Stokesley.\n\nOn 29 July 1963, The Transport Minister, Ernest Marples announced a new by-pass for the village of Stokesley. This was the origin of the link road. However edited version of Hansard implies that the new Labour Government re-routed the proposal in 1965 making a Compulsory Purchase Order of the required land. The A172 changes its name to Stokesley Road at Marton Crossroads, passing through Marton-in-Cleveland. The road can be used to join the A19 north to Newcastle and Sunderland and south. The road also joins the A174 (at this point called the Parkway) to the coastal towns of Redcar, Saltburn and Whitby.\n\nThere are a number of bus services which operate along part or all of the road. Amongst these are: 27(Marton-Netherfields), 28 (Saltburn), 29 (Stokesley) and 63 (Redcar), which are operated by Arriva.\n\nIn May 2016 a section of the road 1.5 miles long by the Blue Bell Inn was re-surfaced by the Highways Authority at Coulby Newham.\n\nAfter the junction with Stainton Way, the name changes to Dixons Bank. As of December 2017 major road improvements are underway at a critical junction, Stainton Way in South Middlesbrough, which will widen access, increase traffic flow, increase highway drainage schemes, and improve street lighting.\n\nThe road heads south through the Cleveland Hills and Commondale before it joins the A19.\n"}
{"id": "47603156", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47603156", "title": "Altiplano–Puna volcanic complex", "text": "Altiplano–Puna volcanic complex\n\nThe Altiplano–Puna volcanic complex (), also known as APVC, is a complex of volcanic systems in the Puna of the Andes. It is located in the Altiplano area, a highland bounded by the Bolivian Cordillera Real in the east and by the main chain of the Andes, the Western Cordillera, in the west. It results from the subduction of the Nazca Plate beneath the South American Plate. Melts caused by subduction have generated the volcanoes of the Andean Volcanic Belt including the APVC. The volcanic province is located between 21° S–24° S latitude. The APVC spans the countries of Argentina, Bolivia and Chile.\n\nIn the Miocene–Pliocene (10-1 mya), calderas erupted felsic ignimbrites in four distinct pulses separated by periods of low levels of activity. At least three volcanic centres (Guacha caldera, La Pacana, Pastos Grandes, Vilama) had eruptions of a Volcanic Exposivity Index (VEI) of 8, as well as smaller scale eruptive centres. Activity waned after 2 mya, but present-day geothermal activity and volcanoes dated to the Holocene, as well as recent ground deformation at Uturunku volcano indicate still-extant present-day activity of the system.\n\nThe Andes mountain chain originated from the subduction of the Nazca Plate below the South American Plate and was accompanied by extensive volcanism. Between 14° S and 28° S lies one volcanic area with over fifty recently active systems, the Central Volcanic Zone (CVZ). Since the late Miocene between 21° S and 24° S a major ignimbrite province formed over thick crust, the Altiplano–Puna volcanic complex, between the Atacama and the Altiplano. The Toba volcanic system in Indonesia and Taupo in New Zealand are analogous to the province. The APVC is located in the southern Altiplano-Puna plateau, a surface plateau wide and long at an altitude of , and lies east of the volcanic front of the Andes. Deformational belts limit it in the east. The Altiplano itself forms a block that has been geologically stable since the Eocene; below the Atacama area conversely recent extensional dynamics and a weakened crust exist. The Puna has a higher average elevation than the Altiplano, and some individual volcanic centres reach altitudes of more than . The basement of the northern Puna is of Ordovician to Eocene age.\n\nThe APVC is generated by the subduction of the Nazca Plate beneath the South American Plate at an angle of nearly 30°. Delamination of the crust has occurred beneath the northern Puna and southern Altiplano. Below depth, seismic data indicate the presence of melts in a layer called the Altiplano–Puna low velocity zone or Altiplano Puna magma body. Regional variations of activity north and south of 24°S have been attributed to the southwards moving subduction of the Juan Fernández Ridge. This southwards migration results in a steepening of the subducting plate behind the ridge, causing decompression melting. Between 1:4 to 1:6 of the generated melts are erupted to the surface as ignimbrites.\n\nMafic rocks are associated with strike-slip faults and normal faults and are found in the southern Puna and Altiplano. The southern Puna has calc-alkaline andesites erupted after 7 mya, with the least evolved magmas being the 6.7 mya Cerro Morado and 8–7 m Rachaite complex flows. Basaltic over shoshonitic (both 25 and 21 m) to andesitic (post-Miocene) lavas are found in the southern Altiplano.\n\nIgnimbrites deposited during eruptions of APVC volcanoes are formed by \"boiling over\" eruptions, where magma chambers containing viscous crystal-rich volatile-poor magmas partially empty in tranquil, non-explosive fashion. As a result, the deposits are massive and homogeneous and show few size segregation or fluidization features. Such eruptions have been argued to require external triggers to occur. There is a volume-dependent relationship between homogeneity of the eruption products and their volume; large volume ignimbrites have uniform mineralogical and compositional heterogeneity. Small volume ignimbrites often show gradation in composition. This pattern has been observed in other volcanic centres such as the Fish Canyon Tuff in the United States and the Toba ignimbrites in Indonesia.\n\nPetrologically, ignimbrites are derived from dacitic–rhyodacitic magmas. Phenocrysts include biotite, Fe–Ti-oxides, plagioclase and quartz with minor apatite and titanite. Northern Puna ignimbrites also contain amphibole, and clinopyroxene and orthopyroxene occur in low-Si magmas, while higher Si magmas also contain sanidine. These magmas have temperatures of and originate in depths of . The ignimbrites are collectively referred to as San Bartolo and Silapeti Groups.\n\nEruptions are affected by the local conditions, resulting in high altitude eruption columns that are sorted by westerly stratospheric winds. Coarse deposits are deposited close to the vents, while fine ash is carried to the Chaco and eastern cordillera. The highest volcanoes in the world are located here, including high Ojos del Salado and high Llullaillaco. Some volcanoes have undergone flank collapses covering as much as . Most calderas are associated with fault systems that may play a role in caldera formation.\n\nThe area's calderas are poorly understood and some may yet be undiscovered. Some calderas were subject to comprehensive research. Research in this area is physically and logistically difficult. Neodym, lead and boron isotope analysis has been used to determine the origin of eruption products.\n\nThe dry climate and high altitude of the Atacama Desert has protected the deposits of APVC volcanism from erosion, but limited erosion also reduces the exposure of buried layers and structures.\n\nThe APVC area before the upper Miocene was largely formed from sedimentary layers of Ordovician to Miocene age and deformed during previous stages of Andean orogeny, with low volume volcanics. Activity until the late Miocene was effusive with andesite as the major product. After a volcanic pause related to flat slab subduction, starting from 27 mya volcanism increased suddenly.\n\nIgnimbrites range in age from 25 mya to 1 mya. In the late Miocene, more evolved andesite magmas were erupted and the crustal components increased. In the late Tertiary until the Quaternary, a sudden decrease of mafic volcanism coupled with a sudden appearance of rhyodacitic and dacitic ignimbrites occurred. During this flare-up it erupted primarily dacites with subordinate amounts of rhyolites and andesites. The area was uplifted during the flare-up and the crust thickened to . This triggered the formation of evaporite basins containing halite, boron and sulfate and may have generated the nitrate deposits of the Atacama Desert. The sudden increase is explained by a sudden steepening of the subducting plate, similar to the Mid-Tertiary ignimbrite flare-up. In the northern Puna, ignimbrite activity began 10 mya, with large-scale activity occurring 5 to 3.8 Ma in the arc front and 8.4 to 6.4 Ma in the back arc. In the southern Puna, backarc activity set in 14–12 Ma and the largest eruptions occurred after 4 Ma. The start of ignimbritic activity is not contemporaneous in the entire APVC area; north of 21°S the Alto de Pica and Oxaya Formations formed 15–17 and 18–23 mya respectively, whereas south of 21°S large scale ignimbrite activity didn't begin until 10.6 mya.\n\nActivity waned after 2 mya, and after 1 mya and during the Holocene, activity was mostly andesitic in nature with large ignimbrites absent. Activity with composition similar to ignimbrites was limited to the eruption of lava domes and flows, interpreted as escaping from a regional sill high at depth.\n\nThe APVC is still active, with recent unrest and ground inflation detected by InSAR at Uturuncu volcano starting in 1996. Research indicates that this unrest results from the intrusion of dacitic magma at or more depth and may be a prelude to caldera formation and large scale eruptive activity. Other active centres include the El Tatio and Sol de Mañana geothermal fields and the fields within Cerro Guacha and Pastos Grandes calderas. The latter also contains <10 ka rhyolitic flows and domes. The implications of recent lava domes for future activity in the APVC are controversial.\n\nThe APVC erupted over an area of from ten major systems, some active over millions of years and comparable to Yellowstone Caldera and Long Valley Caldera in the United States. The APVC is the largest ignimbrite province of the Neogene with a volume of at least , and the underlying magmatic body is considered to be the largest continental melt zone, forming a batholith. Alternatively, the body revealed by seismic studies is the remnant mush of the magma accumulation zone. Deposits from the volcanoes cover a surface area of more than . La Pacana is the largest single complex in the APVC with dimensions , including the caldera.\n\nMagma generation rates during the pulses are about , based on the assumption that for each of arc there is one caldera. These rates are substantially higher than the average for the Central Volcanic Zone, . During the three strong pulses, extrusion was even higher at . Intrusion rates range from and resulted in plutons of volume beneath the calderas.\n\nModelling indicates a system where andesitic melts coming from the mantle rise through the crust and generate a zone of mafic volcanism. Increases in the melt flux and thus heat and volatile input causes partial melting of the crust, forming a layer containing melts reaching down to the Moho that inhibits the ascent of mafic magmas because of its higher buoyancy. Instead, melts generated in this zone eventually reach the surface, generating felsic volcanism. Some mafic magmas escape sideward after stalling in the melt containing zone; these generate more mafic volcanic systems at the edge of the felsic volcanism, such as Cerro Bitiche. The magmas are mixtures of crust derived and mafic mantle-derived melts with a consistent petrological and chemical signature. The melt generation process may involve several different layers in the crust.\n\nAnother model requires the intrusion of basaltic melts into an amphibole crust, resulting in the formation of hybrid magmas. Partial melting of the crust and of hydrous basalt generates andesitic–dacitic melts that escape upwards. A residual forms composed from garnet pyroxenite at a depth of . This residual is denser than the mantle peridotite and can cause delamination of the lower crust containing the residual.\n\nBetween 18 and 12 mya the Puna-Altiplano region was subject to an episode of flat subduction of the Nazca Plate. A steepening of the subduction after 12 mya resulted in the influx of hot asthenosphere. Until that point, differentiation and crystallization of rising mafic magmas had mostly produced andesitic magmas. The change in plate movements and increased melt generation caused an overturn and anatexis of the melt generating zone, forming a density barrier for mafic melts which subsequently ponded below the melt generating zone. Dacitic melts escaped from this zone, forming diapirs and the magma chambers that generated APVC ignimbrite volcanism.\n\nMagma generation in the APVC is periodical, with pulses recognized 10, 8, 6, and 4 mya. The first stage included the Artola, Granada, Lower Rio San Pedro and Mucar ignimbrites. The second pulse involved the Panizos, Sifon and Vilama ignimbrites and the third was the largest, with a number of ignimbrites. The fourth pulse was weaker than the preceding ones and involved the Patao and Talabre ignimbrites among others.\n\nThe magmas beneath the APVC are noticeably rich in water derived from the subduction of water-rich rocks. A volume ratio of about 10-20% of water has been invoked to explain the pattern of electrical conductivity at a depth of . The total amount of water has been estimated to be , comparable to large lakes on Earth.\n\nSeismic tomography is a technique that uses seismic waves produced by earthquakes to gather information on the composition of the crust and mantle below a volcanic system. Different layers and structures in the Earth have different propagation speeds of seismic waves and attenuate them differently, resulting in different arrival times and strengths of waves travelling in a certain direction. From various measurements 3D models of the geological structures can be inferred. Results of such research indicate that a highly hydrated slab derived from the Nazca Plate – a major source of melts in a collisional volcanism system – underlies the Western Cordillera. Below the Altiplano, low-velocity zones indicate the presence of large amounts of partial melts that correlate with volcanic zones south of 21° S, whereas north of 21° S thicker lithospheric layers may prevent the formation of melts. Next to the Eastern Cordillera, low-velocity zones extend farther north to 18.5° S. A thermally weakened zone, evidenced by strong attenuation, in the crust is associated with the APVC. This indicates the presence of melts in the crust. A layer of low velocity (shear speed of ) thick is assumed to host the APVC magma body. This body has a volume of about . Other seismological data indicate a partial delamination of the crust under the Puna, resulting in increased volcanic activity and terrain height.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37679030", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37679030", "title": "Antarctic Protected Area", "text": "Antarctic Protected Area\n\nAn Antarctic Protected Area is an area protected under the Antarctic Treaty System. There are three types of Protected Areas under this system:\n\n\nGuidelines for scientists and other visitors have been developed to protect these areas.\n\n"}
{"id": "41270742", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41270742", "title": "Anthony Leiserowitz", "text": "Anthony Leiserowitz\n\nAnthony Leiserowitz is a human geographer at Yale University who studies public perceptions of climate change. \nHe has particularly examined perceptions within the United States, where people are considerably less aware of climate change than in other countries. In the U.S., awareness of information about climate change\nis heavily influenced by emotion, imagery, associations, and values; public discourse reflects a lack of understanding of the science involved in climate change, and little awareness of the potential for effective responses to it. \nLeiserowitz grew up on a farm in Michigan and his parents were sculptors. He received his undergraduate degree at Michigan State University and then moved to Colorado, looking to work as ski bum. While there he became interested in climate change, and went to University of Oregon to study under Paul Slovic, an expert in risk perception, and received his PhD in human geography. \n\nHe joined the faculty of Yale in 2007. He started to collaborate with Edward Maibach in 2008 to study people's perception of climate change.\n\nAs of 2018 he had an appointment as a senior research scientist in the Yale School of Forestry and Environmental Studies and was Director of the Yale Project on Climate Change Communication, a principal investigator at the Center for Research on Environmental Decisions at Columbia University, and a research scientist at Decision Research. \n\nHe was the recipient of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA's) 2011 Environmental Merit Award, and as of 2013 had published around 100 scientific articles and book chapters on climate change beliefs, perceptions and behaviors. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "9217744", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9217744", "title": "Aziz Ab'Sáber", "text": "Aziz Ab'Sáber\n\nAziz Nacib Ab'Sáber (; October 24, 1924 – March 16, 2012) was an environmentalist and one of Brazil´s most respected scientists, honored with the highest awards of Brazilian science in geography, geology, ecology and archaeology. Graduated in geography, he was a president and honorary president of the Sociedade Brasileira para o Progresso da Ciência (Brazilian Society for the Advancement of Science), Emeritus Professor of the University of São Paulo and member of the highest rank - Order Grão-Cruz in Earth Sciences - of the Academy of Science. Among the awards, he has received the UNESCO Prize on Science and the Environment in 2001 and the Prize to the Intellectual of Brazil in 2011.\n\nThe contributions of Ab'Saber to science range from the first research of oil camps in Brazil's northeast to surveys of Brazil's natural realms and the restoration of the history of forests, camps and primitive humans over geologic time in South America. He made central contributions to biology, South American archaeology, and to Brazilian ecology, geology and geography. He has published more than 480 works, most of them scientific publications.\nAmong his scientific proposals are FLORAM, the Code of biodiversity and his theory of refuges related to the Amazones.\n\nAb'Sáber was the first person to classify scientifically the Brazilian and South-America territory in morphoclimatic domains. He also contributed to the \"Pleistocene refuge hypothesis\", an attempt to explain the distribution of Neotropical taxa as a function of their isolation in forest fragments during glacial periods, which allowed populations to speciate. He died in 2012 following a heart attack.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17715275", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17715275", "title": "Bolivian autonomy referendums, 2008", "text": "Bolivian autonomy referendums, 2008\n\nReferendums on departmental autonomy statutes were held in four departments of Bolivia—Beni, Pando, Santa Cruz, and Tarija—in May and June 2008. These four departments, known as the \"Media Luna\", voted in favor of autonomy in the June 2006 elections. The National Electoral Court had blocked the referendums, along with the proposed referendum on Morales's new constitution. The referendums were also unconstitutional, as the constitution in force at the time had no provisions for departmental autonomy. Under the Framework Law on Autonomy, passed in 2010, the autonomy statutes must be harmonized with the 2009 Constitution before being enacted.\nThe first autonomy referendum was held in Santa Cruz Department on 4 May 2008. Autonomy referendums were held in Beni Department and Pando Department in Bolivia on 1 June 2008 Both departments approved autonomy with slightly over 80% of the vote. Turnout was only 34.5% in Beni and slightly over 50% in Pando.\n\nA similar referendum was held in Tarija Department on 22 June 2008.\n\n"}
{"id": "3428392", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3428392", "title": "Cornelius de Pauw", "text": "Cornelius de Pauw\n\nCornelius Franciscus de Pauw or Cornelis de Pauw (\"Corneille de Pauw\" in French; 18 August 1739 — 5 July 1799) was a Dutch philosopher, geographer and diplomat at the court of Frederick the Great of Prussia.\n\nAlthough born in Amsterdam, son of Antonius Pauw and Quirina van Heijningen, he spent most of his life in Kleve. Working for the clergy, he nonetheless became familiar with the ideas of the Enlightenment. During his lifetime he was considered to be the greatest expert on the Americas, although he never visited the continent; he also wrote at length on the origins of ancient peoples, rejecting the popular idea of the time that China was originally a colony of Ancient Egypt.\n\nHe was a specialist in ethnologic studies as well, publishing a study of American Indians in French in 1768. Daniel Webb, an English scholar and translator, translated portions of de Pauw’s work into English for a public that was hungry for information regarding the new continent of America. De Paauw had no hesitation in rejecting the observations of those with personal experience of the Americas if they differed from his preconceptions, as can be seen from his comments on the Aztec calendar. Despite this, he was reputed in his lifetime to be Europe’s foremost authority on the Americas. He read the accounts of Buffon and other scientists, naturalists, and explorers, and drew his own conclusions. De Pauw was of the opinion (shared with other European scientists of that time) that the American natives were inferior to natives of northern and western Europe, and that this inferiority was partly due to American climate and geography.\n\nSome quotes from his works: The American [native], strictly speaking, is neither virtuous nor vicious. What motive has he to be either? The timidity of his soul, the weakness of his intellects, the necessity of providing for his subsistence, the powers of superstition, the influences of climate, all lead him far wide of the possibility of improvement; but he perceives it not; his happiness is, not to think; to remain in perfect inaction; to sleep a great deal; to wish for nothing, when his hunger is appeased; and to be concerned about nothing but the means of procuring food when hunger torments him. He would not build a cabin, did not cold and the inclemency of the atmosphere force him to it, nor ever quit that cabin, did not necessity thrust him out. In his understanding there is no gradation, he continues an infant to the last hour of his life. By his nature sluggish in the extreme, he is revengeful through weakness, and atrocious in his vengeance... \n\nThe Europeans who pass into America degenerate, as do the animals; a proof that the climate is unfavourable to the improvement of either man or animal. The Creoles, descending from Europeans and born in America, though educated in the universities of Mexico, of Lima, and College de Santa Fe, have never produced a single book. This degradation of humanity must be imputed to the vitiated qualities of the air stagnated in their immense forests, and corrupted by noxious vapours from standing waters and uncultivated grounds…\n\nRejecting the existence of the Aztec calendar: \nIt cannot be, because such a practice presupposes a long series of astronomical observations and very precise knowledge for calculating the solar year, which cannot coincide with the prodigious ignorance in which those peoples were submerged. How could those (peoples) have perfected their chronology who did not have words to count above ten?\n\nElsewhere: \n\nThere are none of these languages in which is possible to count above three. It is not possible to translate a book, not just into the languages of the Algonquins or of the Guaranis or Paraguayans, but even into the languages of Mexico or Peru, because they lack a sufficient number of terms capable of enunciating general concepts.\nDe Pauw extended his theory to the livestock and wild animals of the Americas:\n\nThe degeneracy which prevails in the stranger animals, among whom I shall reckon man, differs in different provinces. Dogs, which in Peru are subject to the venereal disease, are not so in the northern regions; hogs, which dwindle in Pennsylvania, in other places lose their shape, but not their stature; in the English colonies, European sheep become smaller, without losing their wool; in the islands, as in Jamaica, they change their wool for a hair hard and coarse, which cannot be manufactured...\n\nPauw’s work also dealt with the manners and customs unique to the natives of the Americas, ranging from the Inuit and Canadian Indians in the north to the Peruvians in the south. De Pauw speculates on differences and similarities between the North Americans and natives in Siberia. He notes:\n\nThe Tunguses, a people of Siberia, are, like the Canadians, grave, phlegmatic, and speak little; because they have but few ideas, and still fewer words to express them; add to this, that the silence and gloom of their forests naturally induce an habitual melancholy. Hence it is that they prefer strong and inebriating liquors, which quicken the motion of the blood, and set the machine in action, to the most precious gifts that can be made them.\n\nThe Tunguses hang their dead on trees, so do the Illinois of America; they cannot dig graves in the earth frozen hard to the depth of twenty feet. This is obviously nothing more than a coincidence...\n\nIn a discussion about the physical characteristics of native Americans, he writes of a peculiar custom among the Caribbeans:\n\nThere is in the Caribane a sort of savages who have hardly any neck, and whose shoulders rise as high as the ears; this too is factitious, and brought about by laying great weights on the head of the infant, which compress the vertebrae of the neck, and force them to descend into the hollow formed by the two bones of the upper part of the breast. These monsters appear, at a certain distance, to have the mouth in the middle of the breast; and may well renew, to travelers ignorant and delighting in wonders, the ancient fable of the Acephales, or of men without heads.\n\nDe Pauw writes of the appearance of the \"Eskimo\": \n\nThey are the most diminutive race of human kind, their stature in general not exceeding four feet. They have enormous heads, are extremely fat and corpulent, and much under-limbed. On examining the extremities of their limbs, one perceives that organization has been checked by the severity of that cold, which contracts and degrades all earthly productions. Man, however, resists this impression in higher degrees towards the Pole than trees or plants, since beyond the 68th degree neither tree nor shrub is to be found, while savages are met with 300 leagues beyond that elevation.\n\nHis work stirred tremendous controversy in its time and provoked responses from the leading American citizens. An \"Anti-Degeneracy\" campaign against the assertions of de Pauw and his colleagues involved such notables such Thomas Jefferson and James Madison.\n\nAs a renowned scholar, he corresponded with the major \"philosophes\" of his time - including Voltaire -, and was asked to contribute articles to the \"Encyclopédie\". He was the uncle of Anacharsis Cloots, to whom he was also a teacher.\n\nDe Pauw died in Xanten. Napoleon I of France had an obelisk raised in his memory in Xanten.\n\nDe Pauw and his ideas were objects of severe criticism by some of his contemporaries, notably those with experience of the Americas. The Mexican Jesuit Francisco Javier Clavijero, exiled in Bologna, attached a series of \"Dissertations\" to his \"Storia antica del Messico\" with de Pauw \"the principal target of my shots.\" In his history of the rise and fall of the Aztec empire, Clavijero (\"Francesco Saverio Clavigero\") of course dealt with the Mesoamerican calendar system, and in the \"Dissertations\" he quoted de Pauw's remarks shown above, pointing to the many scholars, European and Indian, who had described the calendar previously. He also showed how to count up to forty-eight million in Nahuatl, listed a number of Nahuatl words for metaphysical and moral concepts, pointed out that the Gospels and Thomas a Kempis's \"The Imitation of Christ\" had been translated into Nahuatl, acknowledged his debt to Indian writers such as Ixtlilxochitl, and catalogued authors both European and American born who had written in American languages ranging from Tarahumara to Cakchiquel. \n\nAnother Jesuit exile in Italy, the Chilean Juan Ignacio Molina, accused de Pauw of \"always attempting to degrade and discredit the Americas\". Some of de Pauw's statements on the poor aspects of the mineral wealth of the Americas were countered by Molina along with his claims about the shorter lives of their inhabitants.\n\n"}
{"id": "3149448", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3149448", "title": "Crustumerium", "text": "Crustumerium\n\nCrustumerium (or Crustuminum) was an ancient town of Latium, on the edge of the Sabine territory, near the headwaters of the Allia, not far from the Tiber.\n\nIn Rome's early semi-legendary history, the Crustumini were amongst the peoples which attended Romulus' festival of Neptune Equester. At that festival, the Roman men seized the young women amongst the visiting spectators, an event known as the Rape of the Sabine Women. Afterwards, according to Livy, the Crustumini commenced hostilities. The Romans retaliated and captured Crustumerium. A Roman colony was subsequently sent to the town by Romulus and many citizens of the town migrated to Rome. More of the Roman colonists preferred to go to Crustumerium than to another town, Antemnae, because of the fertility of the soil at the former.\n\nAccording to Livy, the town later revolted to become part of the Latin League, which went to war with Rome during the reign of Rome's king Lucius Tarquinius Priscus. Crustumerium was one of a number of towns captured by Tarquinius.\n\nIt was conquered in 500 BC according to Livy (ii. 19), the tribus Crustumina or Clustumina being formed in 471 BC.\n\nLivy records that in 468 BC the Sabines marched through the territory of Crustumerium towards Latium, ravaging the countryside.\n\nPliny mentions it among the lost cities of Latium, but the name clung to the district, the fertility of which remained famous. The site of Crustumerium has been identified in the locality Marcigliana Vecchia, north to modern Rome along the Via Salaria, not far from Settebagni; only partially excavated, it covered an area of some 60 hectares.\n\nSince the site of the city was identified in the 1970s, an archaeological project has been undertaken. In 2010 the Groningen Institute of Archaeology (GIA) received funding of the Netherlands Organization for Scientific Research (NWO) to elaborate their research on the Iron Age settlement of Crustumerium. The aim of this website is to provide you with information on this project called \"The People and the State. Material culture, social structure and political centralization in central Italy (800 - 450 BC)\". \n"}
{"id": "29820384", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29820384", "title": "Detmold (surname)", "text": "Detmold (surname)\n\nNotable people with the family name Detmold include:\n\nNobility (House of Lippe)\n"}
{"id": "9631501", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9631501", "title": "Districts of Malta", "text": "Districts of Malta\n\nMalta is subdivided in districts of localities in order to administer the country in regions rather than locality. The districts have no administrative significance as the local councils provide the first-tier divisions of the country.\n\nThere are 6 districts, used for statistical purposes and which are, in turn, grouped into 3 regions: Gozo, Malta Majjistral and Malta Xlokk. Each district consists of a number of localities. The Northern Harbour District, Western District and Northern District together form the North Western Region (\"Malta Majjistral\"). The South Eastern District and Southern Harbour District together form the South Eastern Region (\"Malta Xlokk\"). The Gozo and Comino District is a Region in its own right.\n\nThe Southern Harbour District forms part of Malta Xlokk. It contains 14 local councils including the capital Valletta and the cities of Birgu, Cospicua, Senglea and Żabbar, with the largest locality being Żabbar while the smallest one is Xgħajra. The total population of the District is 80,170 (as of 31 December 2016), while total area is 26.1 km. It is the second largest district by population and the fifth largest by area.\n\nThe Northern Harbour District forms part of Malta Majjistral. It contains 13 local councils including the city of Qormi, with the largest locality being Birkirkara (pop. 22,314) while the smallest one is Ta' Xbiex (pop. 1,657). The total population of the District is 131,056 (as of 31 December 2016), while total area is 24.1 km. It is the largest district by population and the smallest by area.\n\nThe South Eastern District forms part of Malta Xlokk. It contains 11 local councils including the city of Żejtun, with the largest locality being Marsaskala (pop. 12,281) while the smallest one is Ħal Safi (pop. 2,168). The total population of the District is 68,044 (as of 31 December 2016), while total area is 54.3 km. It is the fourth largest district by both population and area.\n\nThe Western District forms part of Malta Majjistral. It contains 10 local councils including the cities of Mdina, Siġġiewi and Żebbuġ, with the largest locality being Żebbuġ (pop. 11,759) while the smallest one is Mdina (pop. 229). The total population of the District is 59,817 (as of 31 December 2016), while total area is 72.5 km. It is the fifth largest district by population and the second largest by area.\n\nThe Northern District forms part of Malta Majjistral. It contains 6 local councils but no cities, with the largest localities being Mosta (pop. 20,009) and St. Paul's Bay (pop. 19,843) while the smallest one is Għargħur (pop. 2,743). The total population of the District is 69,467 (as of 31 December 2016), while total area is 73.6 km. It is the third largest district by population and the largest by area.\n\nThe Gozo and Comino District is also the Gozo Region. It contains 14 local councils including the city of Victoria (or Rabat). This is also the largest locality (pop. 6,211) while the smallest one is Għasri (pop. 418). The total population of the District is 31,879 (as of 31 December 2016), while total area is 68.7 km. It is the smallest district by population and the third largest by area.\n\nThere are currently 13 electoral districts, also known as electoral divisions. Each consists of a number of localities (although there is no requirement that electoral boundaries follow the boundaries of localities).\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThis district consists of the islands of Gozo and Comino\n\n\nThere are 11 police districts, each district having its own police headquarters.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3711215", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3711215", "title": "Edward Robinson (scholar)", "text": "Edward Robinson (scholar)\n\nEdward Robinson (April 10, 1794 – January 27, 1863) was an American biblical scholar. He studied in the United States and Germany, a center of biblical scholarship and exploration of the Bible as history. He translated scriptural works from classical languages, as well as German translations. His \"Greek and English Lexicon of the New Testament\" (1836; last revision, 1850) became a standard authority in the United States, and was reprinted several times in Great Britain.\n\nHis magnum opus, \"Biblical Researches in Palestine\", the first major work in Biblical Geography and Biblical Archaeology and conducted in the Ottoman-ruled Palestine region in the late 1830s and 1850s, earned him the epithets \"Father of Biblical Geography\" and \"Founder of Modern Palestinology.\"\n\nRobinson was born in Southington, Connecticut, and raised on a farm. His father was a minister in the Congregational Church of the town for four decades. The younger Robinson taught at schools in East Haven and Farmington in 1810–11 to earn money for college. He attended Hamilton College, in Clinton, New York, where his maternal uncle, Seth Norton, was a professor. He graduated in 1816.\n\nIn 1821 he went to Andover, Massachusetts, where he published his translation of books i–ix, xviii and xix of the \"Iliad\". There he aided Moses Stuart in the preparation of the second edition (1823) of the latter's \"Hebrew Grammar.\" He translated into English (1825) Wahl's \"Clavis Philologica Novi Testamenti\".\n\nRobinson went to Europe to study ancient languages, largely in Halle and Berlin (1826–30). While in Halle, in 1828 he married the German writer Therese Albertine Luise. After the couple returned to the United States, Robinson was appointed professor extraordinary of sacred literature at Andover Theological Seminary (1830–33).\n\nRobinson founded the \"Biblical Repository\" (1831), which he edited for four years. He also established the \"Bibliotheca Sacra\" (1843), into which was merged the \"Biblical Repository\". He spent three years in Boston working on a lexicon of scriptural Greek.\n\nIllness caused him to move to New York City. He was appointed as professor of biblical literature at Union Theological Seminary, serving from 1837 until his death.\n\nIn 1836 Robinson published both a translation of Wilhelm Gesenius' \"Hebrew Lexicon\" and a Greek New Testament Lexicon.\n\nRobinson traveled to Palestine in 1838 in the company of Rev. Eli Smith. He published \"Biblical Researches in Palestine\" in 1841, for which he was awarded the Gold Medal of the Royal Geographical Society in 1842. He was elected a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 1847.\n\nRobinson, together with Smith, made scores of identifications of ancient places referred to the Bible. His work established his enduring reputation as a \"Founder\" of Biblical archeology, and influenced much of future archaeological field work. Examples of his finds in Jerusalem include the Siloam tunnel and Robinson's Arch in the Old City; the latter was named in his honor.\n\nThe two men returned to Ottoman Palestine in 1852 for further investigations. In 1856 the enlarged edition of \"Biblical Researches\" was published simultaneously in English and German. Among those who later acknowledged Robinson’s stature, in 1941 G. Ernest Wright, reviewing the pioneering survey contained in Nelson Glueck's \"The Other Side of the Jordan\", makes a just comparison and fitting testimonial: \"Glueck's explorations are second to none, unless it is those of Edward Robinson.\" \n\n\nRobinson edited and translated:\n\nHe revised:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6516738", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6516738", "title": "Eskimo Point", "text": "Eskimo Point\n\nEskimo Point () is a flat-topped, steep-sided promontory which protrudes from the east side of Eisenhower Range and forms the north wall of O'Kane Canyon, in Victoria Land. \n\nSo named by the Southern Party of New Zealand Geological Survey Antarctic Expedition (NZGSAE), 1962-63, which camped on its upper surface and built an igloo while waiting for white-out conditions to lift.\n"}
{"id": "1256184", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1256184", "title": "Figure-ground in map design", "text": "Figure-ground in map design\n\nAn effectively designed map is one in which the intended message is clearly communicated to the map user. By employing the concept of figure–ground, a viewer can easily distinguish between the main figure on a map and the background information. Several concepts that are key to developing good figure–ground in any cartographic design are differentiation, closed form, centrality, articulation and good contour. In addition, by considering the intended intellectual hierarchy, or the order of importance of each map element, the author can develop a visual hierarchy on the map that corresponds appropriately.\n\nDifferentiation is described as the ability to easily discriminate the main figure from the ground. This can be accomplished by designing the desired figure as visually heterogeneous and reducing the level of distraction caused by the ground. By adding surface patterns or textures to the figure, visual differentiation will lead to figure definition.\n\nIncorporation of closure on a map is important because percipients interpret the figure to be the object or objects in the map that are closed. Additionally, there is a tendency for the percipient to complete or close unfinished objects. The location and shape of central figures on a map can be adjusted by varying the scale, projection, and format.\n\nThe figure of emphasis should be centrally located and surrounded by areas of a different character with contrast that lessens ground importance visually and emphasized the main figure. Both alignment and centering can be achieved through measurement or through visual approximation. The concept of centrality is important because the object located in the center of a map is most often assumed to be the figure. Other map elements can be centered in the remaining visual space after the figure has been centered.\n\nArticulation utilizes texture to differentiate figure from ground. One common example of using articulation on a map is differentiating a continent from the ocean. The ocean, in most cases, will be the ground and the continent will be the figure. By adding fine-textured shading to water, the continent pops out visually as the figure. Another method that can be employed for articulation is called vignetting, or the inclusion of brightness gradients at the land-water edge.\n\nGood contour on the map can be described as the viewer’s ability to continue the line throughout the map. The figure is formed by a contour or outline (as opposed to an isometric contour line), the common boundary between the figure and ground, usually through a brightness contrast. If a figure is not separated entirely from the ground, a simple black contour line can be drawn around the figure enclosing it and thus differentiating it from the ground.\n\nIntellectual hierarchy, also known as a scale of concepts, refers to the idea that some map features are more important than others. The placement on a map or the ordering of information will convey relative importance of map features to the percipient. If developed on the map correctly, the intellectual hierarchy will correspond to the visual hierarchy established on the map. By developing a visual hierarchy, the percipient can distinguish relative importance to map objects, drawing attention to the most important objects first. By emphasizing the colors of important figures and fading out the colors on less important figures, the perceived distance between the two is increased. Also by employing color contrasts, contour sharpness can be adjusted.\n\nFields other than cartography, such as psychology, neurology, and computer science, have studied differentiation of figure from ground. Many studies have employed different experiments, varying the shades, textures, and orientations of test pictures to determine the best method for figure–ground design with mixed results. A current application of figure–ground research is the development of computer vision for robots. By studying the way humans perceive figure and ground, methods can be developed to improve computer vision algorithms.\n"}
{"id": "17351446", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17351446", "title": "Geographical feature", "text": "Geographical feature\n\nGeographical features are naturally-created features of the Earth. Natural geographical features consist of landforms and ecosystems. For example, terrain types, physical factors of the environment) are natural geographical features. Conversely, human settlements or other engineered forms are considered types of artificial geographical features.\n\nThere are two different terms to describe habitats: ecosystem and biome. An ecosystem is a community of organisms interacting with its environment. In contrast, biomes occupy large areas of the globe and often encompass many different kinds of geographical features, including mountain ranges.\n\nBiotic diversity within an ecosystem is the variability among living organisms from all sources, including \"inter alia\", terrestrial, marine and other aquatic ecosystems. Living organisms are continually engaged in a set of relationships with every other element constituting the environment in which they exist, and ecosystem describes any situation where there is relationship between organisms and their environment.\n\nBiomes represent large areas of ecologically similar communities of plants, animals, and soil organisms. Biomes are defined based on factors such as plant structures (such as trees, shrubs, and grasses), leaf types (such as broadleaf and needleleaf), plant spacing (forest, woodland, savanna), and climate. Unlike ecozones, biomes are not defined by genetic, taxonomic, or historical similarities. Biomes are often identified with particular patterns of ecological succession and climax vegetation.\n\nA landform comprises a geomorphological unit and is largely defined by its surface form and location in the landscape, as part of the terrain, and as such is typically an element of topography. Landforms are categorized by features such as elevation, slope, orientation, stratification, rock exposure, and soil type. They include berms, mounds, hills, cliffs, valleys, rivers, and numerous other elements. Oceans and continents are the highest-order landforms.\n\nA body of water is any significant accumulation of water, usually covering the Earth. The term \"body of water\" most often refers to oceans, seas, and lakes, but it may also include smaller pools of water such as ponds, creeks or wetlands. Rivers, streams, canals, and other geographical features where water moves from one place to another are not always considered bodies of water, but they are included as geographical formations featuring water.\n\nA settlement is a permanent or temporary community in which people live. Settlements range in components from a small number of dwellings grouped together to the largest of cities with surrounding urbanized areas. Other landscape features such as roads, enclosures, field systems, boundary banks and ditches, ponds, parks and woods, mills, manor houses, moats, and churches may be considered part of a settlement.\n\nEngineered geographic features include highways, bridges, airports, railroads, buildings, dams, and reservoirs, and are part of the anthroposphere because they are man-made geographic features.\n\nCartographic features are types of abstract geographical features, which appear on maps but not on the planet itself, even though they are located on the planet. For example, the Equator is shown on maps of the Earth, but it does not physically exist. It is a theoretical line used for reference, navigation, and measurement.\n\n"}
{"id": "21793863", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21793863", "title": "Global Maritime Situational Awareness", "text": "Global Maritime Situational Awareness\n\nGlobal Maritime Situational Awareness (GMSA) is defined in the U.S. National Concept of Operations for Maritime Domain Awareness, December 2007, as \"the comprehensive fusion of data from every agency and by every nation to improve knowledge of the maritime domain.\" It is an integral element of Maritime Domain Awareness (MDA).\n\nEssentially, no one country, department, or agency holds all of the authorities and capabilities to have effective Maritime Domain Awareness on its own. However, by combining separate pieces of information from agencies at the federal, state, local, and tribal level around the world with information from the maritime industry and other non-governmental organizations, it is possible to keep track of the status of every ocean-bound and sea-bound vessel. GMSA results from combining intelligence given by other regions of the world into a complete picture for identifying trends and detecting anomalies.\n\nIn the United States, the director for GMSA is responsible for managing data critical to building the situational awareness component of global MDA. The director also develops and recommends policy guidance for coordinated collection, fusion, analysis, and dissemination of GMSA information and products, as well as information integration policies, protocols and standards. The director also recommends improvements to situational\nawareness-related activities supporting maritime information collection, fusion, analysis and\ndissemination. The director co-chairs the U.S. National MDA Stakeholder Board, sits on the MDA Stakeholder Board Executive Steering Committee, and is a member of the U.S. Maritime Security Policy Coordinating Committee (MSPCC).\n\nThe GMSA staff consists of and is supported by dedicated subject matter experts from across the federal government as selected by the Director from departmental nominees from the Department of Homeland Security, Department of Defense, Director of National Intelligence, Department of Justice, Department of Transportation, Department of Commerce, Department of State, Department of the Treasury, and Department of Energy's National Nuclear Security Administration.\n\nThe GMSA Director and staff form the Office of Global Maritime Situational Awareness.\n\nMaritime anomaly detection is an area of scientific study aimed at avoiding maritime collisions. There are a number of aspects to this work, and there have been several conferences and workshops exploring the domain. A google search on \"Maritime anomaly detection\" returns a large number of hits from a wide range of domains. Some of the related topics are:\nSome of the significant events exploring the area are:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1720185", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1720185", "title": "Grauspitz", "text": "Grauspitz\n\nThe Grauspitz (\"Vorder Grauspitze\" or \"Vorder Grauspitz\" on some maps) is a mountain in the Rätikon range of the Alps, located on the border between Liechtenstein and Switzerland. With an elevation of 2,599 metres above sea level, the Grauspitz is the highest mountain in Liechtenstein. It is also the highest summit of the Rätikon range west of the Schesaplana massif.\n\nThe mountain lies between the valleys of Lawenatal (municipality of Triesen) on the north and the Fläscher Tal (canton of Graubünden, municipality of Fläsch) on the south. Both sides of the Grauspitz are in the basin of the Rhine, which flows approximately seven kilometres west of the mountain.\n\nThe easiest route to the summit ascends over the Hinter Grauspitz (Schwarzhorn), and along a class 3–4 razor ridge.\n\n"}
{"id": "20686103", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20686103", "title": "Heinrich Theodor Menke", "text": "Heinrich Theodor Menke\n\nHeinrich Theodor Menke (24 May 1819 – 14 May 1892) was a German geographer, who was born and lived in Bremen. He is remembered for his work in historical geography.\n\nMenke studied theology and philology at the University of Bonn, and in 1842 received his doctorate at Halle with a dissertation on ancient Lydia. Afterwards he worked as a schoolteacher in Bremen, but soon became dissatisfied with this line of work, and undertook legal studies in Berlin and Heidelberg. After attaining his degree he practiced law in Bremen, and later Vegesack.\n\nThroughout his life, Menke had an avid interest in geography, and via contact with Wilhelm Perthes (1783–1853) of the \"Justus Perthes Geographische Anstalt\" in Gotha, in the centre of Germany, his primary vocational focus turned to editing and producing geographical atlases. In 1865 he published the third edition of Karl Spruner von Merz' \"Atlas Antiquus\", and later produced the heavily revised third edition of Spruner's atlas of medieval and modern history, \"Hand-Atlas für die Geschichte des Mittelalters und der neueren Zeit\" (1871–1880). Menke, a corresponding member of the Bavarian Academy of Sciences and Humanities since 1877, died in Gotha on 14 May 1892.\n\nThe island group Menkeøyane in the Svalbard archipelago is named in his honor.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5556571", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5556571", "title": "Henri Hauser", "text": "Henri Hauser\n\nHenri Hauser (19 July 1866 – 27 May 1946) was a French historian, geographer, and economist. A pioneer in the study of the economic history of the early modern period, he also wrote on contemporary economic issues and held the first chair in economic history to be established at a French university. He was born in Oran into a middle-class Jewish family who had moved to French Algeria for health reasons but returned to France when Hauser was four years old. Hauser was educated at the Lycée Condorcet in Paris and then at the École Normale Supérieure where he came first in both the entrance and leaving examinations. He initially taught in provincial lycées before taking his doctorate in 1892 with a thesis on the 16th-century Huguenot leader, François de la Noue. Hauser went on to become a professor of ancient and medieval history at the University of Clermont-Ferrand, modern history and geography at the University of Dijon, and finally a professor of history and economic history at the Sorbonne from 1919 to 1936. His 1905 book \"L'impérialisme américain\" predicted the decline of Europe and the dominance of the United States, while his 1915 \"Méthodes allemandes d'expansion économique\" analyzed the role played by German industry in the outbreak of World War I. Hauser was awarded the Legion of Honor in 1919 and in 1945 the Académie française awarded him the \"Prix de l'Académie\" for his life's work.\n\nHauser was born into a Jewish family of republican sympathies. His father Auguste Hauser (1816–1884) had been a Freemason and was a tailor by trade. His mother, Zélia Hauser \"née\" Aron (1840–1879), was the daughter of a prosperous merchant and exporter in Besancon. Although both of Hauser's parents were born in Besancon, their families' origins were in Luemschwiller in the Alsace region. Henri and his elder brother Félix-Paul were born in Oran in French Algeria where the family had relocated to improve Zélia's health and where Auguste had a tailor shop. The family returned to France when Henri was four years old, on the eve of the Franco-Prussian War. After a short stay in Marseille, they settled in Seine-Saint-Denis near Paris where Auguste resumed his trade as a tailor. Hauser's mother Zélia died of tuberculosis when he was thirteen. His maternal uncle, Henry Aron, then looked after the education of Henri and Félix-Paul. He enrolled Henri in the Lycée Condorcet to prepare him for eventual study at the École Normale Supérieure.\n\nHauser entered the École Normale Supérieure in August 1885. One of his mentors there was the geographer Paul Vidal de la Blache who would be a lifelong influence on him. Upon his graduation from the École in 1888 when he came first in the \"Agrégation\" examinations for history and geography, Hauser received a teaching appointment at the lycée in Bourges. He subsequently taught at the lycées of Pau and Poitiers before receiving his doctorate in 1892 from the \"Faculté des lettres de Paris\" (University of France). His doctoral dissertation, supervised by Gabriel Monod, was on the 16th-century Huguenot leader, François de la Noue. It was published by Hachette that same year and reviewed by Jean Réville in the \"Revue de l'histoire des religions\". Réville noted the dissertation's erudition and the new light shed on de la Noue's reputation by Hauser's study.\n\nHauser's first university appointment was as a lecturer (\"chargé de cours\") in ancient and medieval history at the University of Clermont-Ferrand in 1893. There he published several studies which continued to shed new light on the religious and economic history of the 16th century, including \"Voyage du Levant\". Hauser had discovered Philippe Canaye's hitherto unpublished account of his 1573 voyage to Constantinople in the Bibliothèque nationale de France. He translated the Italian manuscript and published it in 1897 with extensive notes and a biography of Canaye which corrected many errors in previous accounts of his life. Hauser was promoted to Professor of History at Clermont-Ferrand in 1896 and remained at the university until 1899 when the Dreyfus Affair made his position untenable. During that year he established a section of the \"Ligue des droits de l'homme\" at Clermont-Ferrand and gave a series of public lectures attacking the conviction of Dreyfus for treason as \"illegal\". Hauser wrote, \"I want a France great and noble, a France faithful to its mission of justice and truth.\" Antisemitic students at the university and the right-wing press attacked him as a \"traitor\" and a \"Prussian\".\n\nHauser took a leave of absence from Clermont-Ferrand, moved back to Paris with his wife Thérèse and their young daughter Alice and threw himself into writing teaching manuals for geography and comparative studies on the teaching of geography and economics in the French colonies. One of his more eclectic works from this period was his 1901 \"L'Or\", a book on gold in all its aspects including its extraction, metallurgy, the regions in which it is mined, and its use in both industry and commerce. The following year it was awarded the \"Prix Montyon\". In 1901, Hauser was offered an appointment to the University of Dijon and taught there until 1919 as Professor of Modern History. He also taught commercial and industrial geography at the Conservatoire National des Arts et Métiers from 1915 to 1933, first as a lecturer and then as a professor. In 1919 he received his first appointment to the University of Paris. He began there as a lecturer in modern economic history, was promoted to professor \"sans chaire\" in 1921, and in 1927 was given the university's first chair in economic history.\n\nAccording to cultural historian Pim den Boer, Hauser was \"exceptionally knowledgeable about a wide range of subjects\" which was reflected in his scholarship. Throughout his career Hauser's approach was a multidisciplinary one and emphasized the roles played by both economics and geography in historical scholarship, views expressed as early as his 1903 \"L'enseignement des sciences sociales\" and his influential 1906 essay \"La Géographie humaine et l'histoire économique\". He also co-authored two books on the geography of France and its colonies with Joseph Fèvre: \"Régions et pays de France\" (1909) and \"Notre Empire colonial\" (1910). During World War I Hauser worked as an advisor to Étienne Clémentel, France's Minister of Commerce and later sat on the economic committee at the Paris Peace Conference in 1919.\n\nHenri Hauser and Henri Hitier co-directed a major inquiry into French manufacturing in 1915–16 for the National Association of Economic Expansion. The inquiry was supervised by Paul de Rousiers.\nHauser's \"Méthodes allemandes d'expansion économique\" in which he analyzed the role played by German industry in the outbreak of the war had been published in 1915. The book was translated into English by Manfred Emanuel and Hauser and was published in London in 1917 and New York in 1918 as \"Germany's Commercial Grip on the World\". The American edition came out as Germany's defeat seemed imminent and the allied powers were contemplating the terms of an eventual peace treaty. In his preface to that edition James Laurence Laughlin wrote:\n\nI know of no other available authority who has so fully and so intelligently explained the methods by which Germany has gained her remarkable position in the markets of the world. [...] This volume is as necessary to us as to the French.\n\nAfter World War I ended, Hauser returned to his primary specialty, the history of the early modern period, but continued to publish on many contemporary historical, economic and geographical subjects. According to den Boer, one of Hauser's finest historical works from this period was his 1933 \"La prépondérance espagnole (1559-1660)\" which he characterised as \"rightly considered a masterly and original synthesis.\" It echoes the view of Augustin Renaudet in a paper read at a meeting of the \"Société d'Histoire Moderne\" shortly after Hauser's death. \"La prépondérance espagnole\" had multiple editions and was reprinted in 1973 with an introduction and eulogy to Hauser by Pierre Chaunu.\n\nIn the interwar period Hauser had an increasingly international presence. Between 1918 and 1920, he regularly visited Alfred Zimmern in Oxford University and Zimmern was also frequently in Paris to work on the post-war diplomatic conditions. In 1923, Hauser was invited by Edwin F. Gay to be an exchange professor at Harvard University where he taught an economics course and gave various lectures both at the university and in other American cities. In 1929 he was invited to give conferences and lectures at King's College London and the London School of Economics where he became one of the founder members of the International scientific committee on price history led by William Beveridge. Georges Dumas, an old friend from Hauser's student days at the École Normale invited him to Brazil in the 1930s to advise on the training of historians. Hauser was instrumental in bringing other French academics to teach in Brazilian universities. At his encouragement, Pierre Monbeig focused his doctoral dissertation on the first settlements in Brazil. Hauser was also a pillar of the Alliance Française. He and his brother Félix-Paul had become members in the late 1880s, only a few years after its founding. He was appointed to its administrative council in 1912, contributed numerous articles on French historical figures to its publications, and was elected its vice president in 1933.\n\nHauser retired from the University of Paris in 1936 at the age of 70 with Marc Bloch succeeding him in the chair of economic history, but he continued his scholarly work and publication in the ensuing years. Amongst the works he produced after his retirement was \"La naissance du Protestantisme\" which won the 1941 \"Prix Eugène Carrière\" of the Académie française. The lives of both men were seriously impacted by the outbreak of World War II. Hauser came out of retirement and moved with his family to Rennes in 1939 to cover a teaching post at the university left vacant when its lecturer was drafted. Bloch left his position at the Sorbonne that same year to join the French Army.\n\nAfter France's defeat by the Germans in June 1940, Bloch returned to Paris, but when the Vichy laws on the status of Jews were passed in October of that year, both he and Hauser were declared \"undesirable professors\". Bloch joined the French resistance in 1942 and was later imprisoned by the Gestapo and executed. Hauser remained in Rennes, now forced to wear the yellow badge, and unable to teach. While there he learned that his apartment in Paris which contained his library had been completely pillaged as had his country house in Herblay. Nevertheless, he continued to publish articles in journals such as \"Revue Historique\", although his name and those of the other Jewish scholars were replaced with their initials. He also began working on his memoires.\n\nIn June 1942 Hauser was warned that his name was on a list of persons to be arrested the following day. He fled with his wife, daughter, and granddaughter to a small village near Toulouse where they lived in hiding for the remainder of the war. It was there (and despite his failing eyesight) that Hauser completed his final book, a study of the economic thought of Richelieu. With the liberation of France in 1944 Hauser and his family moved to Montpellier, hoping to return to Paris once an apartment could be found. However, Hauser's health began to fail and he died in Montpellier on 27 May 1946, shortly before his 80th birthday. His funeral, like his wedding, was a non-religious ceremony. According to Hauser, he had lost his religious faith when preparing for his Bar Mitzvah and \"everything in the synagogue seemed dead\". In 1945 the Académie française had awarded him the \"Prix de l'Académie\" for his life's work.\n\nHauser's uncle, Henry Aron, who had played a major role in his education, died in 1885, the year Hauser entered the École Normale Supérieure. Aron, who wrote for several prominent Parisian journals and had served as the director of the \"Journal officiel de la République française\", was awarded the Legion of Honor in 1878.\n\nHauser married Thérèse Franck on 3 September 1888 in a non-religious wedding ceremony, which drew disapproval from their Jewish families and from his Catholic classmates at the École Normale. Their daughter, Alice Hauser, became a bacteriologist at the main bacteriology laboratory in Dijon and was awarded the silver \"Médaille d'honneur des épidémies\" by the French War Ministry in 1916. Alice married Jean Dabert, a lawyer from Metz, in 1922. The following year their daughter Françoise was born.\n\nHauser's elder brother, Félix-Paul, died in 1916. He had a long career in the French civil service, primarily in French Indochina, and was awarded the Legion of Honor in 1909 for his role in the .\n\nHenri Hauser's great-grandson, Denis Crouzet, followed in his footsteps and became a specialist in the history of the Reformation and a professor at the Sorbonne. He is the son of the historian François Crouzet and Hauser's granddaughter Françoise Dabert-Hauser.\n\nHauser's account of his childhood and youth and his family's history appears in his unfinished memoirs, \"Souvenirs d'un vieux grand-père à sa petite fille\" (Memories of an Old Grandfather for his Granddaughter). The draft of the memoirs was amongst the papers Hauser had to leave behind in Rennes in his flight from the city in 1942. One of the professors at the university there hid the papers in his own house for the remainder of the war and was later able to return the draft to Hauser's widow. Extracts from the memoirs were published in 2006 in \"Henri Hauser (1866-1946): humaniste, historien, républicain\". The book is a collection of papers delivered at a two-day international colloquium on the life and work of Hauser held in January 2003 at the École Normale Supérieure in Paris.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17419472", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17419472", "title": "ISO 3166-2:ML", "text": "ISO 3166-2:ML\n\nISO 3166-2:ML is the entry for Mali in ISO 3166-2, part of the ISO 3166 standard published by the International Organization for Standardization (ISO), which defines codes for the names of the principal subdivisions (e.g., provinces or states) of all countries coded in ISO 3166-1.\n\nCurrently for Mali, ISO 3166-2 codes are defined for 1 district and 10 regions. The district Bamako is the capital of the country and has special status equal to the regions.\n\nEach code consists of two parts, separated by a hyphen. The first part is , the ISO 3166-1 alpha-2 code of Mali. The second part is either of the following:\n\nThe codes for the regions are assigned roughly from west to east.\n\nSubdivision names are listed as in the ISO 3166-2 standard published by the ISO 3166 Maintenance Agency (ISO 3166/MA).\n\n\"Click on the button in the header to sort each column.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53905382", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53905382", "title": "Ladies' ordinary", "text": "Ladies' ordinary\n\nA ladies' ordinary was a women-only dining space which started to appear in North American hotels and restaurants in the early 19th century. At the time, women were not permitted to dine alone or unaccompanied by a male escort in restaurants and the public rooms of luxury, mainly urban hotels. A ladies' ordinary provided a socially acceptable venue where respectable women could dine alone or with other women. It also protected women from the unwanted gazes and advances of men, a common fear in the male-dominated environment of the restaurant. \n\nThe first hotel to have housed a ladies' ordinary is thought to be Tremont House, Boston. On November 2, 1833, a restaurant for women referred to as a ladies' ordinary opened in New York City, by the proprietors of a neighbouring establishment called the Clinton Lunch. Isabella Lucy Bird, while travelling in the United States in the mid-19th century, wrote about the American House in Boston that the hotel had an upstairs room separate from the main dining room called 'The Ladies' Ordinary', \"where families, ladies and their invited guests take their meals\".\n"}
{"id": "7097323", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7097323", "title": "List of African Union member states by political system", "text": "List of African Union member states by political system\n\nAfrican Union (AU) member states have various forms of government. The Constitutive Act of the African Union makes no provision for what type of government a member state may or must have, but states:\nThis clause has only been applied to Mauritania after its 2005 coup d'état, to Madagascar as a result of the 2009 Malagasy political crisis and to Togo during its political crisis in April 2005.\n\nSeveral political systems of governance are represented in the AU, including stable, competitive democracies (Botswana, Cape Verde), systems dominated by single parties, and even a failed state that exists in a \"de jure\" capacity (Somalia) and a government in exile (Western Sahara's Sahrawi Arab Democratic Republic.)\n\nAt present, three sovereign monarchies are members of the African Union: Eswatini (ruled by King Mswati III, with Ntombi), Lesotho (ruled by King Letsie III), and Morocco. Lesotho is a constitutional monarchy, in which the king or queen serves a largely ceremonial function; he no longer possesses any executive authority and is proscribed from actively participating in political initiatives. According to the constitution, the leader of the majority party in the assembly automatically becomes prime minister; the monarch is hereditary, but, under the terms of the constitution which came into effect after the March 1993 election, the monarch is a \"living symbol of national unity\" with no executive or legislative powers; under traditional law the college of chiefs has the power to determine who is next in the line of succession, who shall serve as regent in the event that the successor is not of mature age, and may even depose the monarch. Eswatini (Swaziland) is an absolute monarchy, currently in the process of democratization. According to current Swazi law and custom, the monarch holds supreme executive, legislative, and judicial powers. The king (\"Ngwenyama\") is a hereditary leader, receiving assistance from a council of ministers and a national legislature. The senior queen (\"Ndlovukati\") is in charge of national rituals, and acts as regent if her counterpart Ngwenyama dies and the heir has not performed royal adulthood rituals or is indisposed. If the king's mother is no longer living, one of the king's wives may act as Ndlovukati. The king has constitutional protection from arrest and trial.\n\nIn several other African states there are subnational monarchs, but only a select few are vested with constitutional and\\or legal powers, and therefore the majority of them are little more than traditional notables in practice. The Ashanti Confederacy in Ghana is led by Asantehene (King) Otumfuo Nana Osei Tutu II; the succession is decided by a series of councils of local nobles and other royal family members. KwaZulu-Natal (or Zululand) is led by the king of the Zulu Nation, currently Goodwill Zwelithini kaBhekuzulu. Although he does not hold any direct political power, he is provided a stipend by the government of South Africa, and holds considerable sway over more traditionalist Zulu people in the KwaZulu-Natal Province. Both the Asantehene and the Zulu monarch are part of complex networks of other kings and chiefs that constitutionally serve as traditional leaders of their respective countries.\n\nDue to constitutional reform in Uganda in 1993, several traditional monarchies have been politically reconstituted by the government of Yoweri Museveni. These are:\nElsewhere, in Botswana, the kgosis (or chieftains) of the various tribes are constitutionally empowered to serve as advisors within the national legislature as members of the Ntlo ya Dikgosi. Meanwhile, in Nigeria, the various traditional polities that currently exist are politically defined by way of the ceding of definite authority from the provincial governments, which in turn receive their powers to do so from a series of chieftaincy laws that have been legislatively created. Beyond this, residual powers are also derived by the Nigerian traditional rulers from both pre-existing customary laws and the remnants of the indirect rule policy of the colonial era.\n\nHistorically, there have been several monarchies throughout the African continent. Since decolonization, many have been abolished in favor of republics. The following African monarchies have existed in the twentieth century:\n\nSeveral African colonies were under the sovereignty of the King or Queen of the United Kingdom. Upon independence, several states became Dominions or Commonwealth realms, sharing their head of state with the United Kingdom. All have subsequently abolished the monarchy:\nIn spite of this, several African states are affiliated with the Commonwealth of Nations:\n\nThere are several types of government systems in African politics:\n\nThe politics of Africa have been blighted by severe problems with corruption and nepotism, coups d'état, and civil war. Corruption is a severe problem in much of the continent, with the vast majority of African states ranking below a five out of ten in Transparency International's Corruption Perceptions Index. Five of the ten most corrupt governments are AU member states:\n\nThe following AU states are in ongoing wars, or have recently ceased hostilities:\n\nForty-five of the African Union's member states are unitary states, which means that most of the competences lie with the central government and only minor or local issues are within the authority of regional governments. However, four states are federations (Comoros, Ethiopia, Nigeria, and Sudan) of states or regions with equal competences, Somalia's Transitional Federal Parliament is also a federation; Madagascar has devolved certain powers to its six provinces; and the United Republic of Tanzania is a federacy of Tanganyika and Zanzibar, the latter of which elects its own president for internal affairs. Former federations and confederations in Africa from the twentieth century include:\n\nA further distinction is the number of chambers in the national legislature; either with one or two houses. There is no clear trend towards either model , and there's also no real common factor which determines whether a country's legislature is unicameral or bicameral, except for the fact that federations and countries with strong regional differences or regional identities are normally bicameral to reflect the regions' interests in national bills.\n\nThe function and form of the houses vary widely; some are directly elected, others indirectly or appointed, some have legal provisions for minority representation, based either or ethnicity, religious affiliation, or gender. In Cameroon and Malawi, there are legally two houses, but only one is functional.\n\nThere are presently 34 unicameral legislatures and 19 bicameral legislatures in among AU member states.\n\n"}
{"id": "9028201", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9028201", "title": "List of BBC children's television programmes", "text": "List of BBC children's television programmes\n\nThis is a list of television programmes that are either currently being broadcast, or have previously been broadcast on the children's television strand of the BBC in the United Kingdom.\n\nThis section includes repeats.\nThe Three longest shows running are Arthur ,Blue Peter and ChuckleVision \n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12128729", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12128729", "title": "List of European islands by area", "text": "List of European islands by area\n\nThis is a list of islands in Europe ordered by area.\n\nThis section of the list is not complete.\n\nThis section of the list is not complete. Data for some islands is missing, particularly for some Arctic islands in Russia and Svalbard.\n\nThis section of the list is not complete.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56307032", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56307032", "title": "List of Open All Hours characters", "text": "List of Open All Hours characters\n\nThis is a list of characters from the BBC situation comedy \"Open All Hours\" and its sequel, \"Still Open All Hours\".\n\nAlbert Arkwright is a fictional character played by Ronnie Barker in the British sitcom \"Open All Hours\" who has died and passed the shop down to Granville by the first episode of \"Still Open All Hours\" in 2013. \n\nAlbert Arkwright is a pragmatic, miserly man with old-fashioned values, whose world seems to stop at his shop door, except for his lusting for Nurse Gladys Emmanuel (Lynda Baron), which may prompt him on occasion to wander across the road, usually with a ladder, to gain access to her bedroom window. Arkwright is a devious, and mildly dishonest character, who has many crafty tricks to try to persuade a customer to leave his store having bought at least one thing, and will avoid spending his own money at all cost. He is also very conservative about his savings, keeping some in his pocket wrapped in a fine gold chain, and some in an old, battered Oxo tin that he hides under the kitchen sink. This includes, or so he claims, coins from before 1922, when they were \"solid silver\". He loves money so much that the last time he spent a whole night away from the shop was in 1957, when he went to have his appendix out. The till itself is old fashioned, and possesses a tight spring-clip that regularly puts Granville and his fingers in danger. Arkwright refuses to replace it because of the price of a replacement, and because it prevents people from taking his precious money. Although an avid political commentator, he has few political convictions and never sides with either the left or right wing, instead implying they are all useless. Arkwright does however seem fervently opposed to nationalisation, once commenting \"My top lip went all stiff and dead, as if it had been nationalised.\" His political comments usually show no allegiances, instead making remarks like \"When Wales get home rule, do you think they'll nationalise Clive Jenkins?\"\n\nArkwright maintains an openly polite demeanour around customers, but will often insult those who offend him in a veiled or open manner. Arkwright appears to believe in God, although he is certainly not portrayed as a religious man. Most episodes end with him on the pavement outside the shop during closing time, contemplating on the days' events. His thoughts often start with an expression like \"Soon they'll only be me and thee that aren't either nationalised or a limited company.\"\n\nArkwright, like most characters in the series, is a rational, practical man, who shows no signs of any sentimentality, unlike Granville, who seems to dream away most of his days, and longs for a life away from the shop. Arkwright speaks with a stammer, which he acknowledges sometimes makes it difficult to express himself. He often makes his impediment into a joke, for example asking: \"Granville, how do you spell P-p-p-pepper? Is it 6 Ps or 7?\", Granville occasionally mocks his uncle's speech pattern (such as calling the \"weather fore-fore-forecast\" the \"\"weather twelvecast\", and referring to the \"B-B-B-B-B-B-B-B-B-B-BC\"\" as morse code), although never in a malicious or hurtful manner. Arkwright was shocked on one occasion to find that he also appears to stutter even when thinking to himself.\n\nAs by way of background, we know that Arkwright was an air raid warden during the World War Two. \n\nBy the time of the 2013 episode \"Still Open All Hours\" and the sequel series of the same name, Arkwright has long since died (Barker died in 2005), but almost all of his personality traits have passed onto Granville. Granville keeps a framed photograph of Arkwright in the shop's kitchen which he occasionally talks to. Several people in the town, including Granville, believe that Arkwright's ghost still haunts the shop, particularly the cash register, attributing events such as the lights switching on and off or the register randomly opening and closing to him.\n\nGranville is a fictional character played by David Jason in the British sitcom \"Open All Hours\" and its sequel, \"Still Open All Hours\". Granville is an errand boy to his uncle and employer, Arkwright, who is the proprietor of an old-fashioned Yorkshire corner shop.\n\nGranville was born to Arkwright's sister, who died while Granville was a young child, leaving Arkwright as his sole guardian. Granville's father's identity is not known, as his mother is implied to be a woman of loose morals, and Arkwright considers him to have likely been a Hungarian, although it's revealed that Arkwright isn't really sure if Granville's father is actually Hungarian. Raised alone by Arkwright, Granville is often curious and engrossed in thoughts about who his father was and saddened not to have known his mother.\n\nAlthough a kind provider (as long as it isn't too stressful on his wallet), Arkwright's miserly and eccentric personality makes him withdraw Granville from school and he starts helping in his uncle's shop at age eleven. The tedious routine weighs heavily on Granville, who hates getting up well before dawn in the morning and not being free until nine at night. He is poorly paid, at three pounds a week, and is made to pay for anything he helps himself to from the shop shelves, even if Arkwright gave it to him. He is curious and anxious to explore the outside world and mingle with his peers, especially girls. Granville spends most of the day dreaming of being somewhere else, or doing something else, a custom which is seen as alien in the working class Yorkshire environment. Granville seems fairly sharp and quick witted, and is often quick to make satirical jokes about Arkwright's stammer or mannerisms whilst he will often flippantly make fun at customers to their faces, all of them seemingly being too unintelligent to realise this.\n\nUnlike his uncle who is a practical man (and a miser), Granville is a carefree man, yet is treated as if he is still a child. The series never reveals his real age, and with an obviously older actor playing younger, David Jason, in the role, its easy to assume that Granville really is much older. Granville's mundane existence is only brightened up by the milkwoman (Barbara Flynn), the only person other than Arkwright who is awake at the same time as him in the mornings. Despite his attraction to her, she is more worldly wise than he is and likes men of the same calibre as herself, but she is generally sympathetic towards Granville, and they have kissed on several occasions.\n\nBy the time of \"Still Open All Hours\", Arkwright has long died and Granville has inherited the shop as promised by Arkwright, and has a young son, Leroy. Despite their radically different personalities and views on life, however, Granville has become a toned-down version of Arkwright in his old age, such as light-heartedly mocking Leroy over his mother's identity, and attempting to make money out of every customer who walks into the shop, even by telling fibs about certain items such as anchovy paste. At one point, Granville opens a bottle of whisky to pour a drink for a promoter, and then charges him for the whole bottle. As a tribute, Granville keeps a framed photograph of Arkwright in the kitchen. He occasionally speaks to the photo as if speaking to Arkwright, and continues to mock his late uncle's stutter as a joke.\n\nLeroy is a fictional character played by James Baxter in the British sitcom \" Still Open All Hours\". Leroy is an errand boy to his father and employer, Granville, who is the proprietor of an old-fashioned Yorkshire corner shop from the 2013 series.\n\nNurse Gladys Emmanuel is a fictional character played by Lynda Baron in the British sitcoms \"Open All Hours\" and \" Still Open All Hours\". \n\nOn 26 December 2013, Baron reprised her role in a special one-off episode of \"Open All Hours\" on BBC One, entitled \"Still Open All Hours\". It was watched by 9.43 million viewers, almost a 40% share in audience figures on Boxing Day. The following day, Baron took part in \"Open All Hours: A Celebration\", a programme looking back on the sitcom. Following the success of the Christmas episode, the cast made a full series, which began on 26 December 2014. A second series started in December 2015. A third series began in December 2016, but Baron was unable to return because of other commitments.\n\nDelphine Featherstone is a fictional character played by Stephanie Cole in the British sitcoms \"Open All Hours\" and \" Still Open All Hours\". Known behind her back as The Black Widow due to her long black coat and black hat, she openly admires Arkwright's penny-pinching nature. \n\nMavis is a fictional character played by Maggie Ollerenshaw in the British sitcoms \"Open All Hours\" and \" Still Open All Hours\". Known to Arkwright as 'wavy Mavis' due to her indecisiveness, it is implied that her marriage is not a happy one. She appears to be good friends with Granville, but wonders if her concern for his welfare is simply an outlet for her maternal instincts.\n\nMadge is a fictional character played by Brigit Forsyth in the British sitcom \" Still Open All Hours\". \n\nEric Agnew is a fictional character played by Johnny Vegas in the British sitcom \" Still Open All Hours\". \n\nGastric is a fictional character played by Tim Healy in the British sitcom \" Still Open All Hours\". \n\nCyril is a fictional character played by Kulvinder Ghir in the British sitcom \" Still Open All Hours\". \n\nMrs Blewett is a fictional character played by Kathy Staff in the British sitcom \" Open All Hours\". A somewhat cheerless woman who raised seven children, her personality resembles Staff's character Nora Batty in Roy Clarke's sitcom \"Last of the Summer Wine\".\n\nMilk Woman is a fictional character played by Barbara Flynn in the British sitcom \" Open All Hours\". Never named in the series, she is the ongoing object of Granville's desire. A divorcee who combines her milk rounds with her Open University studies, she is occasionally receptive to Granville's interests, but makes it clear he's not her only potential suitor and in later episodes she is engaged to another man.\n\nDoris Parslow is a fictional character played by Frances Cox in the British sitcom \" Open All Hours\". \n\nKath Agnew is a fictional character played by Sally Lindsay in the British sitcom \" Still Open All Hours\". She is the wife of Eric Agnew.\n\nMrs Hussein is a fictional character played by Nina Wadia in the British sitcom \" Still Open All Hours\". \n\nWilburn Newbold is a fictional character played by Geoffrey Whitehead in the British sitcom \" Still Open All Hours\". \n"}
{"id": "28180054", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28180054", "title": "List of active separatist movements in North America", "text": "List of active separatist movements in North America\n\nThis is a list of currently active separatist movements in North America. Separatism includes autonomism and secessionism. What is and is not considered an autonomist or secessionist movement is sometimes contentious. Entries on this list must meet three criteria:\n\nUnder each region listed is one or more of the following:\n\n Alberta \n\n\n\nBritish Columbia + Pacific Northwestern US \n\n\n\n\n\n\nInuit autonomist movements: \n\nGreenland is geographically part of North America, but is politically connected to Europe.\n\n\n Zapatista (Chiapas)\n\n Mosquito\n\n California\n\n\n\n\n\n\n Puerto Rico\n\n Confederate States of America\n\n\n Martinique\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42109416", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42109416", "title": "List of archives in Argentina", "text": "List of archives in Argentina\n\nThis is list of archives in Argentina.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50248381", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50248381", "title": "List of coastal settlements of the Americas", "text": "List of coastal settlements of the Americas\n\nCities are listed along the Atlantic coastline of the American continent north to south, from Canada to Chile.\n"}
{"id": "52740768", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52740768", "title": "List of downs", "text": "List of downs\n\nDown is used in the name of geographical features or locations that are downland or close to downland, including:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4056267", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4056267", "title": "List of newspapers in Saint Vincent and the Grenadines", "text": "List of newspapers in Saint Vincent and the Grenadines\n\nThis is a list of newspapers in Saint Vincent and the Grenadines.\n\n"}
{"id": "56180966", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56180966", "title": "List of renamed places in Angola", "text": "List of renamed places in Angola\n\nThis is a list of renamed places in Angola.\n\nPrior to independence in 1975, Angola was known as Portuguese Angola, or occasionally Portuguese West Africa. Upon independence, the country was renamed the Republic of Angola.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28513659", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28513659", "title": "List of sports clubs in Colombo", "text": "List of sports clubs in Colombo\n\nList of Sports Clubs in Colombo. Colombo has many Sports Clubs, covering different sports.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9846959", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9846959", "title": "List of streets in Athens", "text": "List of streets in Athens\n\nThis article is a list of notable streets in Athens, Greece:\n\n"}
{"id": "12660255", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12660255", "title": "List of sulfur lamp installations", "text": "List of sulfur lamp installations\n\nMany of the installations of sulfur lamps were for testing purposes only, but there remain a few sites where the lamps are in use as the primary lighting source. Perhaps the most visible of these would be the glass atriums in the National Air and Space Museum.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11818684", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11818684", "title": "List of universities in Bangkok", "text": "List of universities in Bangkok\n\nThis is a list of colleges and universities in Bangkok, Thailand.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53716326", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53716326", "title": "List of universities in the Cook Islands", "text": "List of universities in the Cook Islands\n\nThis is a list of universities in Cook Islands.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57035632", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57035632", "title": "National Medal of Honor Museum", "text": "National Medal of Honor Museum\n\nThe National Medal of Honor Museum is a proposed museum to be built in Mount Pleasant, South Carolina. It is slated for completion in 2021. Proposed by the National Medal of Honor Museum Foundation Board, the museum is planned to be 140 feet tall, 20 feet taller than Mount Pleasant's next tallest building. The foundation was created in 2014 and aims to raise $100 million dollars to build the museum. Designed by Moshe Safdie, the building has faced much regulatory scrutiny and criticism by the Mount Pleasant Planning Commission. \n"}
{"id": "3203972", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3203972", "title": "Oyster Bay, Tanzania", "text": "Oyster Bay, Tanzania\n\nOyster Bay (also spelled Oysterbay) is an affluent neighborhood in Dar es Salaam, Tanzania. It is known for an attractive beach. Oyster Bay is located north west of Dar es Salaam's central business district along the Indian Ocean. Europeans have resided here since colonial times. Since independence, Europeans working for development aid organizations, and senior government officials, including ministers, permanent secretaries and directors and commissioners, reside here.\n\nThe area is bounded by the Indian Ocean on the east, Mawenzi Road on the North, Ali Hassan Mwinyi Road to the south, and Ali bin Said Road to the West. Some local institutions are named Oysterbay, including a police station, a hospital and a school.\n\nThe centre of the neighborhood is the Oysterbay Shopping Centre where there are businesses.\n\nThe founder of the popular Tingatinga painting style, Edward Tingatinga, began his artistic career while in Oyster Bay. The Tanzanian Tingatinga Art Gallery is located here.\n\nThe following 11 embassies are hosted in and near the OysterBay area;\n"}
{"id": "1770622", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1770622", "title": "Pocket beach", "text": "Pocket beach\n\nPocket beach is usually a small beach, between two headlands. In an idealized setting, there is very little or no exchange of sediment between the pocket beach and the adjacent shorelines.\n\nPocket beaches can be natural or artificial. Many natural pocket beaches exist throughout the world. Artificial pocket beaches are usually constructed in areas where natural beaches are fairly narrow or absent. Examples of artificial pocket beaches include over 100 such systems on Chesapeake Bay in the United States, each consisting of several individual pocket beaches; the Fisher Key, Florida project constructed on a dredge spoil island originally consisting of cobble dredge material;, and the Fred Howard Park Beach that was constructed offshore of a muddy mangrove shoreline. Additionally, there have been many pocket beaches constructed in the Caribbean where resorts have been developed along rocky shorelines with minimal natural beaches.\n\n"}
{"id": "53838090", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53838090", "title": "Ronald F. Abler", "text": "Ronald F. Abler\n\nRonald Francis (Ron) Abler (born May 30, 1939) is an American geographer at Pennsylvania State University and an Elected Fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science. \n\nAbler obtained his PhD in 1968 from the University of Minnesota, where he had started his academic career as faculty member in 1967.\n\nAbler served as president of the American Association of Geographers in 1985-86, and as president of the International Geographical Union from 2008 to 2012. He is a recipient of the Samuel Finley Breese Morse Medal and the Victoria Medal. \n\nAbler is a key early figure in the development of geography of media and communication.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34213879", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34213879", "title": "Severomuysky Range", "text": "Severomuysky Range\n\nThe Severomuysky Range () is a mountain range in Buryatia, Russia, part of the Stanovoy Highlands. It separates the basins of the Upper Angara and Muya Rivers.\n\nThe Baikal Amur Mainline (BAM) railway traverses the southern end of the mountain range via the Severomuysky Tunnel.\n"}
{"id": "30968333", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30968333", "title": "Specim", "text": "Specim\n\nSpecim, Spectral Imaging Ltd is a European technology firm headquartered in Oulu, Finland. Specim manufactures and sells imaging spectrographs, hyperspectral cameras and systems. Specim's airborne AISA hyperspectral cameras have been utilized for example in monitoring the environmental effects of major industrial catastrophes such as Deepwater Horizon oil spill and Red mud spill.\n\nIn 2010, Specim was widely credited for its Thermal Infrared Hyperspectral Cameras, including a position as a Prism Awards finalist. The credited Specim Owl is world's first Thermal Hyperspectral Camera that can efficiently be used for outdoor surveillance and UAV applications without an external light source such as the Sun or the Moon.\n\nIn 2013, together with Germany’s Forschungszentrum Jülich research centre, Specim developed and thoroughly tested the novel Hyplant airborne hyperspectral sensor. This was the first airborne sensor to map the fluorescence over large areas. Since then it has been used to map various types of vegetation all over Europe and also in the USA. This project is one step in assessing feasibility of possible new ESA satellite instrument that could provide global maps of vegetation fluorescence called the Fluorescence Explorer (FLEX).\n"}
{"id": "586839", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=586839", "title": "Terrain", "text": "Terrain\n\nTerrain or relief (also topographical relief) involves the vertical and horizontal dimensions of land surface. The term bathymetry is used to describe underwater relief, while hypsometry studies terrain relative to sea level. The Latin word \"terra\" (the root of \"terrain\") means \"earth.\"\n\nIn physical geography, terrain is the lay of the land. This is usually expressed in terms of the elevation, slope, and orientation of terrain features. Terrain affects surface water flow and distribution. Over a large area, it can affect weather and climate patterns.\n\nThe understanding of terrain is critical for many reasons: \n\nRelief (or \"local relief\") refers specifically to the quantitative measurement of vertical elevation change in a landscape. It is the difference between maximum and minimum elevations within a given area, usually of limited extent. The relief of a landscape can change with the size of the area over which it is measured, making the definition of the scale over which it is measured very important. Because it is related to the slope of surfaces within the area of interest and to the gradient of any streams present, the relief of a landscape is a useful metric in the study of the Earth's surface. Relief energy, which may be defined \"inter alia\" as \"the maximum height range in a regular grid\", is essentially an indication of the ruggedness or relative height of the terrain.\n\nGeomorphology is in large part the study of the formation of terrain or topography. Terrain is formed by concurrent processes:\n\nTectonic processes such as orogenies and uplifts cause land to be elevated, whereas erosional and weathering processes wear the land away by smoothing and reducing topographic features. The relationship of erosion and tectonics rarely (if ever) reaches equilibrium. These processes are also codependent, however the full range of their interactions is still a topic of debate.\n\nLand surface parameters are quantitative measures of various morphometric properties of a surface. The most common examples are used to derive slope or aspect of a terrain or curvatures at each location. These measures can also be used to derive hydrological parameters that reflect flow/erosion processes. Climatic parameters are based on the modelling of solar radiation or air flow.\n\nLand surface objects, or landforms, are definite physical objects (lines, points, areas) that differ from the surrounding objects. The most typical examples airlines of watersheds, stream patterns, ridges, break-lines, pools or borders of specific landforms.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46734806", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46734806", "title": "Thin Doem Khun Kala", "text": "Thin Doem Khun Kala\n\nThin-Dim-Kun-Ka-RA is a group of many little islands at Chaloem Chai Phatthan Canal in Bangkok, Thailand. This area of Bangkok was constructed to be a relaxing place and a tourist attraction. There are mangrove forests and about 400 macaque monkeys and a way along the canal to walk to Sanamchai Park for go to the Kun-Ka-RA waterside market for relaxing and buy the local product after watching the macaque monkeys. There is also a monument of Kun-Ka-RA to recall the history and speech of king.\n\nThin-Dim in Thai means the place that lives for a long time and Kun-Ka-RA means macaque monkeys. The two words together mean the place that has macaque monkeys living for a long time. Kun-Ka-RA were a pair of macaque monkeys that hurt their hands because they use their hands to dip into coconuts and could not take their hands out until the hands rotted. Each macaque monkey received the grace from King Bhumibol and was treated by a doctor.\n"}
{"id": "32542832", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32542832", "title": "Toponymies of places in New York's Capital District", "text": "Toponymies of places in New York's Capital District\n\nThe toponymies of places in New York's Capital District are a varied lot, from non-English languages such as Native American, Dutch, and German to places named for famous people or families, of either local or national fame. Also, in the early 19th century, many places in the Hudson Valley, Capital District and points west were either named or renamed after places from Classical Antiquity (e.g. Athens, Cairo, Carthage, Greece, Ilion, Ithaca, Phoenicia, Rome, Syracuse, Troy, Utica)\n\n"}
{"id": "17640863", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17640863", "title": "Vehicle registration plates of Abkhazia", "text": "Vehicle registration plates of Abkhazia\n\nThe government of the Republic of Abkhazia, which considers itself independent from Georgia, issues its own vehicle registration plates for the motor vehicles registered in the territory it controls. The design of the plates is based on that of Russian license plates, although Abkhazian plates lack the regional coding of Russian plates.\n\nThe license plate serial format consists of a letter followed by three digits and then two more letters. The letters are Cyrillic, but only thirteen letters reminiscent of letters of the Latin alphabet are used: А, Б, В, Е, К, М, Н, О, Р, С, Т, У, and Х.\n\nIn the territory controlled by the government of Georgia (before 2008), the Georgian license plates were issued. Since 2004, cars with Georgian plates are prohibited in Abkhazia, as are Abkhazian plates in mainland Georgia. Cross-border travel is therefore only possible with Russian, Armenian, or Azeri plates.\n"}
{"id": "54424858", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54424858", "title": "Vehicle registration plates of Bermuda", "text": "Vehicle registration plates of Bermuda\n\nBermuda requires its residents to register their motor vehicles and display vehicle registration plates. \n\nSince 1975 Bermudian licence plates issued to general passenger vehicles have five black digits on a plain white background (both front and rear), are European standard 520 mm × 110 mm, and use British stamping dies. Non-private vehicles have licence plates with two preceding letters followed by three numbers.\n\nPersonalised plates have become available that allow motorists to choose up to seven characters, overlaid on a map of the island with \"Bermuda\" printed across the top, on a North American standard 6 × 12 inches (152 × 300 mm) sized plate.\n\n"}
{"id": "56953903", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56953903", "title": "Vehicle registration plates of Easter Island", "text": "Vehicle registration plates of Easter Island\n\nEaster Island and Robinson Crusoe Island require their residents to register their motor vehicles and display vehicle registration plates. Both had plates with the provincial name (\"I. de Pascua\" for \"Isla de Pascua\" and \"J. Fernández\" for \"Juan Fernández Islands\") until 1984. Since 1984, plates are Chilean standard plates without the provincial name. \n"}
{"id": "4750771", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4750771", "title": "Vladaya (river)", "text": "Vladaya (river)\n\nThe Vladayska (Владайска река, \"Vladayska reka\") is a river in western Bulgaria, a tributary of the Perlovska.\n\nThe river flows from the northwestern slopes of Cherni Vrah on Vitosha Mountain, crossing Torfeno Branishte Nature Reserve, then submerging beneath Zlatnite Mostove Stone River, turning to the northeast at the village of Vladaya from which the river takes its name, entering Sofia Valley via Vladaya Gorge, and crossing the city of Sofia (featuring the historical ‘Lavov most’ / ‘Lion's Bridge’ in the process) to flow into the Perlovska (a tributary of the Iskar) in its northeastern suburbs.\n"}
{"id": "18863854", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18863854", "title": "Zla Kolata", "text": "Zla Kolata\n\nZla Kolata (Montenegrin: Зла Колата, \"Zla Kolata\"; ) is a mountain of the Prokletije on the border of Montenegro and Albania.\n\nZla Kolata has an elevation of , making it the highest mountain in Montenegro, and the 16th highest in Albania. It is located on the border of the Plav municipality of Montenegro and the Tropojë district of Kukës County, Albania. Zla Kolata has an enormous summit and is a popular tourist destination in both countries. Standing half a kilometer to the northeast at , only slightly lower, is Kolata e Mirë or Dobre Kolata , also located on the border. The highest peak on this massif is a kilometer east-southeast of Zla Kolata and is completely on Albanian soil; called Rodi e Kollatës or Maja e Kollatës, it rises to 2,552 m (8,373 ft) but despite the dramatic views into the Valbona Valley, is not as often visited.\n"}
