{"id": "3642591", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3642591", "title": "Abdul Bari (squash player)", "text": "Abdul Bari (squash player)\n\nAbdul Bari was a squash player. He was one of the leading players in India in the 1940s. After India became independent, he was sponsored to travel to the United Kingdom to compete in the British Open (the effective world championship of the sport at the time), where he finished runner-up in 1950 to the Egyptian player Mahmoud Karim.\n\nBari was distantly related to the brothers Hashim Khan and Azam Khan, who went on to dominate the international squash scene in the 1950s and early-1960s representing Pakistan. \n\nBari died of a brain haemorrhage in 1954.\n\n"}
{"id": "50070111", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50070111", "title": "Alys McKey Bryant", "text": "Alys McKey Bryant\n\nAlys McKey Bryant (1880–1954) was an American aviator. She was the first woman to fly on the Pacific Coast and in Canada, and one of the few female members of the Early Birds of Aviation—individuals who had solo piloted an aircraft prior to December 17, 1916. She cut short her brief career as a pilot after her husband, John Bryant, died while performing an air show in Victoria, Canada, in August 1913. During World War I she trained pilots.\n\nBryant began flying in 1912, when she answered a magazine advertisement offering \"the ultimate in excitement\" by Fred Bennett of the Bennett Aero Company of The Palms, California. Bennett's pilot, John Bryant, approved her and signed her on to his exhibition flying team as an airplane pilot. At the time of being signed on, she had never flown before, which was not uncommon during the time. Most pilots had to teach themselves to fly. On July 31, 1913, she became the first woman to fly in Canada. \n\nHer real passions were repairing and building. Most of her work was the manual labor that, at the time, it was normally expected men would do. She had careers in aviation, submarine diving, automobiles, and was also into motorcycles. During World War I, she helped construct balloons and dirigibles at Akron, and trained pilots. \n\nIn 1913 Alys married John Bryant, who was killed in a crash ten weeks after their wedding. After that she continued to fly for a while, including a trip to Vancouver, where she flew in an exhibition for Edward, Prince of Wales, and his brother George, Duke of York – both future Kings of England.\n"}
{"id": "30610891", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30610891", "title": "Americans in North Korea", "text": "Americans in North Korea\n\nAmericans in North Korea consist mainly of defectors and prisoners of war during the Korean War as well as their locally born descendants.\n\nOn September 17, 1996, The \"New York Times\" reported the possible presence of American POWs in North Korea, citing declassified documents. The documents showed that the U.S. Defense Department knew in December 1953 that \"more than 900 American troops were alive at the end of the war but were never released by the North Koreans\". The Pentagon did not confirm the report, saying it had no clear evidence that any Americans were being held against their will in North Korea but pledged to continue to investigate accounts of defectors and others who said they had seen American prisoners there. The North Korean government has said it is not holding any Americans.\n\nOperation Big Switch, the exchange of remaining prisoners of war, commenced in early August 1953 and lasted into December. During that period, some 21 American soldiers refused to return to their homeland and decided to stay in the country (along with one British soldier and 327 South Koreans). \n\nShortly before the deadline was about to expire, Americans south of the DMZ broadcast a message to the defectors in Panmunjom, saying \"We believe that there are some of you who desire repatriation.\" Defector Richard Corden shouted \"Do any Americans want to go home?\" and his fellow detainees answered \"No!\"\n\n\n\nBiblography\n"}
{"id": "24655575", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24655575", "title": "Angolans in the Netherlands", "text": "Angolans in the Netherlands\n\nThere is a small population of Angolans in the Netherlands, largely consisting of refugees from the Angolan Civil War.\n\nThe Netherlands has no longstanding historical links with Angola. Early Angolan migrants in Europe typically settled in Portugal, the former colonial power in their home country. However, they found it difficult to obtain work there, and also suffered from discrimination. Some thus travelled to other countries, including the Netherlands.\n\nThe major draw for Angolan migration to the Netherlands was the relatively generous asylum policy. In the first half of 2001 alone, 1,800 Angolans applied for asylum in the Netherlands, making up nearly half of the total number of Angolan asylum-seekers in the western world. In total, from 1998-2002, more than 10,000 Angolans applied for asylum in the Netherlands. As many as 4,500 of those consisted of unaccompanied minors. Thousands had their claims for asylum rejected and were thus ineligible for residence permits, but had been permitted to delay their departure due to the lack of safety in their home country. In 1999, State Secretary for Justice Job Cohen pushed to have the delay of departure scheme ended; though in his judgment the situation in Angola as a whole was still not safe, Luanda was stable enough to enable Angolans to return.\n\nBefore 2002, there was little return migration from the Netherlands to Angola; only ten such individuals were known to the International Organization for Migration. However, in 2003, the number of returnees began to increase sharply. Under the Return and Emigration of Aliens from the Netherlands programme, rejected asylum seekers are eligible for a variety of support including an airline ticket to the airport nearest their return destination, reimbursement of fees paid to acquire travel documents, and a resettlement payment to assist with the initial period after relocation. Unaccompanied minors returning to Angola voluntarily also receive assistance in locating their family, and may also be provided with free temporary accommodation at a reception centre if their family cannot be located or cannot receive them.\n\nThere is also some illegal immigration from Angola to the Netherlands. Irregular migrants do not typically make use of people smugglers to enter the Netherlands; they instead get help from their social networks. Such practises have prevented the emergence of large-scale smuggling organisations in Angola.\n\n, statistics of the Dutch Centraal Bureau voor de Statistiek with regards to people of Angolan origin showed:\nFor a total of 9,015 persons (5,041 men, 3,974 women). This represented roughly 3.5 times the 1996 total of 2,594 persons. Their total population peaked in 2004 at 12,281 persons and has been in decline since then.\n\n, Angolans had established five of their own organisations in the Netherlands, as well as three jointly with Congolese migrants. The latter are unusual in Dutch society, as the two groups share neither a common language (other than Dutch) nor a common country of origin. The organisations generally aim to bring Angolans together and promote their integration into Dutch society, empower Angolan women, provide sex education, and organise social activities and sports competitions. The organisations are generally male-dominated, with as many as 80% of the members being men.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9449024", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9449024", "title": "Armenians in Cyprus", "text": "Armenians in Cyprus\n\nArmenians in Cyprus or Armenian-Cypriots (, , ) are ethnic Armenians who live in Cyprus. They are a recognized minority with their own language, schools and churches. Despite the relatively small number of Armenians living in Cyprus, the Armenian-Cypriot community has had a significant impact upon the Armenian diaspora and Armenian people. During the Middle Ages, Cyprus had an extensive connection with the Armenian Kingdom of Cilicia, while the Ganchvor monastery had an important presence in Famagusta. During the Ottoman Era, the Virgin Mary church and the Magaravank were very prominent. Certain Armenian-Cypriots were or are very prominent on a Panarmenian or international level and the fact that, for nearly half a century, the survivors of the Armenian Genocide have co-operated and co-existed peacefully with the Turkish-Cypriots is perhaps a unique phenomenon across the Armenian Diaspora. The emigration of a large number of Armenian-Cypriots to the United Kingdom has virtually shaped today's British-Armenian community.\n\nCurrently, Armenians in Cyprus maintain a notable presence of about 3,500 on the island (including about 1,000 non-Cypriot Armenians), mostly centred on the capital Nicosia, but also with communities in Larnaca, Limassol and Paphos. The Armenian Prelature of Cyprus is located in Nicosia. According to the 1960 Constitution of Cyprus, together with the Maronites and the Latins, they are recognised as a \"religious group\" and have opted to belong to the Greek-Cypriot community and Armenian-Cypriots are represented by an elected Representative in the House of Representatives. Since May 2006, the Representative is Vartkes Mahdessian. The religious leader of the community, since June 2014, is Catholicosal Vicar Archbishop Nareg Alemezian, accountable to the Catholicos of the Great House of Cilicia.\n\nArmenians have had a presence in Cyprus since the 6th-century. According to Theophylact Simocatta, an early 7th-century Byzantine writer, the Byzantine General Maurice the Cappadocian captured 10,090 Armenians as prisoners during his campaign against the Persian King Chosroes I; around 3,350 of these prisoners were deported to Cyprus. More Armenians arrived during the reign of Armenian-descended Emperor Heraclius for political reasons and also during the pontificate of Catholicos Hovhannes III Odznetsi for commercial reasons. Flowing on, after the end of Arab raids in Cyprus, more arrived by the patrician Niketas Chalkoutzes for military reasons, when Armenian mercenaries were transferred to Cyprus to protect it. In the middle Byzantine period, Armenian generals and governors served in Cyprus, like Alexios Mousele or Mousere who undertook the construction of Saint Lazarus' basilica in Larnaca. It appears that Saint Lazarus' church had been an Armenian Apostolic church in the 10th century and was used by Armenian-Catholics during the Latin Era as well. The numerous Armenians required an analogous spiritual pastorate, and so in 973 Catholicos Khatchig I established the Armenian Bishopric in Nicosia. Relations between Cyprus and the Armenians became closer when the Kingdom of Cilicia was established. Between 1136–1138, Byzantine Emperor John II Comnenus moved the entire population of the Armenian city of Tell Hamdun to Cyprus. After Isaac Comnenus' wedding to the daughter of the Armenian prince Thoros II in 1185, Armenian nobles and warriors came with him to Cyprus, many of whom defended the island against Richard the Lionheart, when he landed in Limassol.\n\nAfter the purchase of Cyprus by titular Frankish King of Jerusalem Guy de Lusignan in 1192, in his attempt to establish a western-type feudal kingdom, the latter sent emissaries to Europe, Cilicia and the Levant, resulting in a massive immigration of Armenians and other peoples. Because of their proximity, their commercial ties and a series of royal and nobility marriages, the Kingdom of Cyprus and the Kingdom of Cilicia became inextricably linked. In the subsequent centuries, thousands of Cilician Armenians sought refuge in Cyprus fleeing the Muslim attacks such as the Fall of Antioch. Cyprus became now the easternmost bulwark of Christianity; in 1441 the authorities of Famagusta invited Armenians from Cilicia to settle there. The Fall of Sis in April 1375 put an end to the Armenian Kingdom of Cilicia; its last King, Levon V, was granted safe passage to Cyprus. Although the Egyptian Mamelukes had taken over Cilicia, they were unable to maintain their hold on it; Turkic tribes eventually made their way to the region and established themselves there, leading to the conquest of Cilicia by Tamerlane. As a result, 30,000 Armenians left Cilicia in 1403 and settled in Cyprus, which continued to be ruled by the Lusignan dynasty until 1489. During the Frankish and the Venetian Eras, there were Armenian churches in Nicosia, Famagusta, Spathariko. Armenians were amongst the seven most important religious groups in Cyprus, in possession of stores and shops in the ports of Famagusta, Limassol and Paphos, as well as in the capital Nicosia, thus controlling a large segment of commerce. Additionally, Armenian was one of the eleven official languages of the Kingdom of Cyprus. According to chroniclers Leontios Makhairas, George Boustronios and Florio Bustron, the Armenians of Nicosia had their own Prelature and used to live in their own quarter, called \"Armenia\" or \"Armenoyitonia\". In Famagusta, a Bishopric was established in the late 12th century and Armenians lived around the Syrian quarter. Historical documents suggest the presence of an important monastic and theological centre there, at which Saint Nerses Lampronatsi is said to have studied. \n\nDuring the Middle Ages, Armenians in Cyprus were actively engaged in commerce, while some of them formed military garrisons in Kyrenia and elsewhere. A number of Armenians defended the Frankish Kingdom of Cyprus against the Genoese at Xeros, against the Saracens at Stylli village and against the Mamelukes in Limassol and Khirokitia. By 1425, the renowned Magaravank – originally the Coptic monastery of Saint Makarios near Halevga came under Armenian possession, as did sometime before 1504 the Benedictine/Carthusian nunnery of Notre Dame de Tyre or Tortosa in walled Nicosia. During the Latin Era, there was also a small number of Armenian Catholics in Nicosia, Famagusta and the Bellapais Abbey, where Lord Hayton of Corycus served as a monk. The prosperity of the inhabitants of Cyprus was brought to a halt by the harsh and corrupt Venetian administration and the iniquitous taxes they imposed. Their tyrannical rule, combined with adverse conditions, caused a noticeable decline in the island's population. According to historian Stephen de Lusignan, by the late Venetian Era, Armenians lived mainly in Famagusta and Nicosia and, in small numbers, at three \"Armenian villages\", Platani, Kornokipos and Spathariko. \n\nDuring the Ottoman conquest of the island, about 40,000 Ottoman-Armenian craftsmen were recruited. Many of the Ottoman Armenians who survived the conquest settled mainly in Nicosia, increasing its Armenian population, while the Armenian Prelature of Cyprus was recognised as an Ethnarchy, through the \"millet\" institution. However, the Bishopric in Famagusta was abolished, as the Christian population was slaughtered or expelled and the entire walled city became forbidden for non-Muslims. As a reward for their services during the conquest, the Armenians of Nicosia were granted the right to guard Paphos Gate. However this privilege was used only for a short period. By a \"firman\", they were given back the Notre Dame de Tyre church, which the Ottomans had turned into a salt store. Additionally, the Magaravank monastery had won the favour of the Ottomans and became an important way station for Armenian and other pilgrims en route to the Holy Land, as well as a place of rest for travellers and Catholicoi and other clergymen from Cilicia and Jerusalem. Contrary to the Latins and the Maronites, Armenians – being Orthodox – were not persecuted because of their religion by the Ottomans. Even though about 20,000 Armenians lived in Cyprus during the very first years of the Ottoman Era, by 1630 only 2,000 Armenians remained, out of a total of 56,530 inhabitants. \n\nIn the Bedesten, there were many Armenian merchants and in the late 18th century/early 19th century Nicosia's leading citizen was an Armenian trader called Sarkis, who was a \"beratli\" and was initially the dragoman for the French Consul, before becoming the dragoman for the English Consul. Gifted with the acumen of industry, Armenians practised lucrative professions and in the beginning of the 17th century Persian Armenians settled in Cyprus as silk traders, as did some affluent Ottoman-Armenians in the 18th and 19th centuries, such as Boghos-Berge Agha Eramian. However, with the new order of things, the number of Armenians and other Christians dramatically declined due to the onerous taxation and the harshness of the Ottoman administration, compelling many Christians to become Linobambaki, Crypto-Christians, which explains why former Armenian villages were inhabited by Turkish-Cypriots at the end of the 19th century. A few Armenian-Cypriots became Catholics through marriage with affluent Roman Catholic families. \n\nGradually, after the bloody 1821 events, the Ottomans destroyed the Armenian and Greek mansions, prohibited Greeks, Franks, Armenians and Maronites from carrying guns and hanged or massacred 470 notables, amongst them the Armenian parish priest of Nicosia, der Bedros, some improvements were observed during the Tanzimat period. In the spirit of the Hatt-ı Şerif of Gülhane, the Armenian Bishop, the Greek Archbishop and the Maronite Suffragan Bishop participated in the Administrative Council, which was formed in 1840. After 1850, some Armenians were employed in the civil service, while in 1860 the Notre Dame de Tyre became amongst the first in Cyprus to have a belfry. Additionally, the opening of the Suez Canal in 1869 benefited the Armenian and other merchants of the island, while in 1870 the first Armenian school was established in Nicosia by newly arrived Archimandrite Vartan Mamigonian. Furthermore, as a result of the Hatt-ı Hümayun in 1856, the administrative autonomy of the Armenian Prelature of Cyprus was officially recognised. Based on various estimates, the Armenian-Cypriot community of the 19th century numbered between 150–250 persons, the majority of whom lived in Nicosia, with smaller numbers living in Famagusta, Larnaca, the north and south of the capital and, naturally, around the Magaravank.\n\nWith the arrival of the British in July 1878 and their progressive administration, the already small Armenian community of the island was particularly strengthened. Known for their linguistic skills, several Armenians were contracted to Cyprus to work as interpreters and public servants at the consulates and the British administration, such as Apisoghom Utidjian. The number of Armenians in Cyprus significantly increased following the massive deportations, the massacres and the Genocide perpetrated by the Ottomans and the Young Turks. Cyprus welcomed over 10,000 refugees from Cilicia, Smyrna and Constantinople, who arrived in Larnaca and all its other harbours, about 1,500 of them made the island their new home. Industrious, cultivated and progressive, they brought new life into the old community and establish themselves as people of the arts, letters and sciences, entrepreneurs and merchants, craftsmen and photographers, as well as professionals who introduced new crafts, dishes and sweets to the island, thus contributing to Cyprus' socioeconomic and cultural development. The newcomers established associations, choirs, sports groups, Scout groups, bands, churches, schools and cemeteries throughout Cyprus. Armenians were the first locksmiths, mechanics, seat, comb and stamp makers, upholsterers, watchmakers and zincographers in Cyprus. They were the first to introduce the cinema, they significantly improved the craft of shoemaking and it was Armenians who first introduced Armenian bastourma, baklava, dried apricots, gassosa, gyros, halva, ice cubes, koubes, lahmadjoun, lokmadhes and pompes into the Cypriot cuisine. Armenians also introduced two techniques of embroidery needlework: the Aintab work and the Marash work.\n\nLaw-abiding by nature, Armenian-Cypriots always had a high profile with the British administration and many became conscientious civil servants and disciplined policemen or were employed at the Cyprus Government Railway and at Cable and Wireless. Throughout the 1920s–1950s, many worked at the asbestos mines at Amiandos and the copper mines at Mavrovouni and Skouriotissa, some of whom had been trade unionists. Some Armenian-Cypriots participated in the 1897 Greco-Turkish War, the two World Wars and the EOKA struggle. Also, the Eastern Legion was formed and trained between December 1916 and May 1918 in Monarga village, near Boghazi, consisting of over 4,000 Diasporan Armenian volunteers who fought against the Ottoman Empire. Some Armenian refugees arrived from Palestine and Egypt. The Armenian-Cypriot community prospered throughout the British Era, by establishing associations. In many ways unique across the whole Armenian Diaspora, it was built just outside Nicosia between 1924–1926, after the generous and benevolent donation of the Egyptian-Armenian tobacco trading brothers Krikor and Garabed Melkonian, initially in order to shelter and educate 500 orphans of the Genocide, who planted the trees in front of the school in memory of their slaughtered relatives. From an orphanage (1926–1940), it gradually became a world-renowned secondary school with a boarding section.\n\nThe end of the EOKA struggle found Armenian-Cypriots having forged strong bonds with the rest of the Cypriots. The 1960 Independence brought a new era for the Armenians of Cyprus, who – together with the Maronite and Roman Catholics – were recognised as a \"religious group\" by the Cypriot Constitution and were now represented by an elected Representative. The size of the community, however, had been reduced because of the emigration of about 900 Armenian-Cypriots to the United Kingdom, due to the emergency situation caused by the EOKA struggle and the poor state of the local economy. A second factor that contributed to the reduction of the community's size was the emigration of about 600 Armenian-Cypriots to Soviet Armenia, as part of the pan-Armenian movement for repatriation.\n\nDuring the 1963–1964 inter-communal troubles, the Armenian-Cypriot community suffered major losses, as the Armenian quarter of Nicosia fell into the Turkish Cypriot-controlled area: taken were the Prelature building, the mediaeval Notre Dame de Tyre, the Melikian-Ouzounian school, the Genocide Monument, the club houses of the Armenian Club, AYMA and Armenian General Benevolent Union (AGBU), as well as the Armenian Evangelical church; also taken was the mediaeval Ganchvor church in Famagusta. In total, 231 Armenian-Cypriot families became victims and/or lost their shops and enterprises. As a result, hundreds of Armenian-Cypriots left for Great Britain, Canada, Australia and the United States. After the Turkish invasion of Cyprus, the Armenian-Cypriot community suffered additional losses, several families became refugees, the renowned Magaravank monastery in Pentadhaktylos was taken by the Turkish troops, the Melkonian boys dormitory was bombed by the Turkish Air Force, while the Ayios Dhometios Armenian cemetery was hit by mortars and fell within the buffer zone. As a result, dozens of Armenian-Cypriots emigrated, mainly to Great Britain. In total, about 1,300 Armenian-Cypriots left Cyprus in the 1960s and 1970s, in addition to those who emigrated to Soviet Armenia.\n\nWith the unfailing support of the government, the small yet industrious Armenian community of Cyprus gradually managed to recover from its losses and continued to prosper in the remaining urban areas, contributing culturally and socioeconomically to the development. On 24 April 1975, Cyprus became the first European country to recognise the Armenian Genocide with Resolution 36/1975; two more resolutions followed, Resolution 74/1982 and Resolution 103/1990, with the latter declaring 24 April as a National Remembrance Day of the Armenian Genocide in Cyprus. Over the past decades, the dynamics of the Armenian-Cypriot community have changed with the increased number of marriages with Greek-Cypriots and other non-Armenians, and the arrival over the last 30–35 years of thousands of Armenian political and economic immigrants because of the civil war in Lebanon, the insurgencies in Syria, the Islamic revolution in Iran and the Iran-Iraq war, as well as after the Spitak earthquake and the dissolution of the Soviet Union; some of them have settled permanently in Cyprus. According to the European Charter for Regional or Minority Languages of the Council of Europe, the Armenian language – the mother tongue of the vast majority of Armenian-Cypriots – was recognised as a minority language of Cyprus on 1 December 2002. Today, it is estimated that the Armenians living in Cyprus number about 3,500. In Cyprus there is also a small number of Armenians coming from Ethiopia, Greece, Kuwait, Turkey and the United Kingdom.\n\nThere is no accurate information as to the number of Armenians living in Cyprus during the Byzantine Era. Although during the early Kingdom of Cyprus there were tens of thousands of Armenians living in Cyprus (mainly in Nicosia and Famagusta - where in the latter they numbered around 1,500 souls in 1360), by the late Frankish Era and certainly during the Venetian Era, the number of Armenians in Cyprus dwindled - for a number of reasons: this was due to the tyrannical rule of the Venetian administration, combined with the adverse natural conditions (which affected all Cypriots), as well as the Hellenisation of the various minorities of the island. In fact, the 1572 survey of population and property of Nicosia after the Ottoman conquest, under beylerbey Sinan Pasha, recorded 90-95 local Armenians in Nicosia, out of about 1,100 inhabitants - all with completely Hellenised names.\n\nIt appears that during the very first years of the Ottoman Era (1570–1878), about 20,000 of the 40,000 recruited Ottoman Armenians had remained in Cyprus. Their number, however, rapidly declined, due to the harshness and the oppression of the regime, the onerous taxation and the natural disasters: according to the Latin Bishop of Paphos, Pietro Vespa, in 1630 there were only 2,000 Armenians in Cyprus (out of a total population of 56,350 - mostly living in rural areas), as a great number emigrated elsewhere and many others embraced Islam or they became Linobambaki. Franciscan missionary Giovanni Battista da Todi recorded only 200 Armenians in Nicosia in 1647, while in 1660 he recorded over 300 Armenians on the island. Cardinal Bernardino Spada, representative of Propaganda Fide, also mentioned 200 Armenians in Nicosia in 1648, out of 3,000 inhabitants, also mentioning that their church was the largest in the capital, with 3 priests. Up until the mid-18th century, despite the limited arrival of Ottoman Armenians and Persian Armenians, their number was rather small. Russian monk Basil Barsky, who visited the island in 1727 and 1735, mentions \"some Armenians\" living in Nicosia. Visiting Cyprus in 1738, British traveller Richard Pococke mentions \"very few Armenians, yet they have possession of an ancient church [in Nicosia]\", while for the island as a whole he makes mention to \"a small number of Armenians, who are very poor, though they have an Archbishop and a convent in the country\". However, by the time Italian Abbot Giovanni Mariti visited Cyprus in 1760 and 1767, they had apparently become \"the richest section of the inhabitants [of Nicosia]\", which is why thought \"there are many Armenians [on the island]\". By the mid–19th century, following various waves of Hellenisation (peaceful assimilation) and Turkification (forced conversion), the number of Armenian-Cypriots ranged between 150–200.\n\nWhen the Scot John MacDonald Kinneir visited Cyprus in 1814, he estimated about 40 Armenian families in Nicosia (around 200 persons) - out of a total of 2,000 families (about 10,000 persons), as did British Consul Niven Kerr and Greek Vice-Consul Demetrios Margarites in 1844 and 1847, respectively. The first large-scale Ottoman census in 1831, under the supervision of Muhassil (governor) Halil Effendi, counted 114 non-Muslim males in the Armenian quarter of Nicosia and 13 at the Armenian Monastery (with a total male population of 45,365). Therefore, the number of Armenians in Cyprus would have been around 200 (out of a total of about 88,500). Visiting Cyprus in 1835, American missionary Rev. Lorenzo Warriner Pease writes \"the number of Armenians [in Nicosia] is between 30 and 40 families\". In 1841, about 200 Armenians lived on the island (out of a total of 108,600), of whom about 150-160 resided in Nicosia (with a population of 12,000) - according to the record of population by Muhassil Talât Effendi and the writings of French historians and travellers Louis Lacroix and Count Louis de Mas Latrie. The Latin Vicar General Paolo Brunoni also mentioned 200 Armenians in Nicosia in 1848, as well as some others at the Magaravank. In 1874 Belgian traveller Edmond Paridant-van der Cammen estimated 190 Armenians in Nicosia (out of a total of 13,530). Although unreliable for the Armenian population of Nicosia (mentioning only 20 families in 1875), researcher Philippos Georgiou recorded 6-8 Armenian families around the Magaravank and 5 Armenian families in Larnaca. In 1877, newly arrived priest Hovhannes Shahinian recorded 152 Armenians living in Cyprus, while the first modern population census of Nicosia, carried out in 1879 by the District Commissioner, Major-General Sir Robert Biddulph, counted 166 Armenians - out of a total of 11,197 inhabitants.\n\nThe British colonial censuses that took place between 1881 and 1956 provide us with fairly accurate data on the Armenian population of Cyprus. The following numbers are the combined figures of those recorded as Armenians (by religion) and those recorded as speakers of Armenian: in 1881 there were 201 Armenians in Cyprus (of whom 174 belonged to the \"Armenian Church\"), who increased to 291 in 1891 (of whom 269 were \"Gregorians\" and 11 \"Armenian Catholics\") and to 553 in 1901 (of whom 491 were \"Gregorians\" and 26 \"Armenian Catholics\"); the numerical increase was due to the influx of Armenian refugees from the Hamidian massacres. In 1911 there were 611 Armenians in Cyprus (of whom 549 were \"Gregorians\" and 9 \"Armenian Catholics\"), while in 1921 their number rose to 1,573 (of whom 1,197 belonged to the \"Armenian Church\") and to 3,617 in 1931 (of whom 3,377 were \"Armenian Gregorians\"), as a result of the huge wave of refugees from the Armenian Genocide.\n\nIn 1935 the Armenian Prelature recorded 3,819 Armenians in Cyprus: 102 were \"native Cypriots\" (mainly residing in Nicosia), 399 resided at the Melkonian Educational Institute, while 3,318 were \"refugees\", i.e. genocide survivors and their descendants; of those, 2,139 lived in Nicosia, 678 in Larnaca, 205 in Limassol, 105 in Famagusta, 58 in Amiandos, 25 in Lefka, 20 in Kalo Khorio (Lefka), 18 in Pano Lefkara, 17 around the Magaravank, 5 in Kyrenia, 4 in Paphos and 44 in various villages. In 1946 there were 3,962 Armenians in Cyprus (of whom 3,686 were \"Armenian Gregorians\"), while in 1956 they numbered 4,549.\n\nThe last accurate census of the population of Cyprus with regard to its ethnic breakdown was carried out in 1960; it recorded 3,628 Armenians in Cyprus (of whom 3,378 were \"Armenian Gregorians\"). In 1978 and 1987 the Armenian Prelature recorded the Armenian population of Cyprus, which was 1,787 and 2,742, respectively (however, without extra information regarding their geographical distribution).\n\nSince then, their number has increased; currently, about 3,500 Armenians live in Cyprus: 65% live in the capital, Nicosia, 20% in Larnaca, 10% in Limassol and 5% in Paphos and some villages. Over 95% of the Armenian population of Cyprus speak Armenian and are Armenian Orthodox (also known as Armenian Apostolic or Gregorian); some 5% belong either to the Armenian Evangelical Church, Armenian Catholic Church, Latin Church, Greek Orthodox Church, Anglican ChurchPlymouth Brethren Church, Seventh-day Adventist Church or they are Jehovah's Witnesses. About 1,000 out of the 3,500 Armenians who live in Cyprus hail from Armenia, Lebanon, Syria, Russia, Georgia, Persia, Greece, Iraq, Ethiopia, Turkey and Kuwait. Most of the first wave of Armenians from Armenia who arrived in Cyprus from 1988 onwards were in fact the Armenian-Cypriots and their descendants who emigrated to Armenia between 1962–1964, as part of the nerkaght (\"ներգամթ – repatriation\") Panarmenian movement.\n\nAccording to available information, the about 1,000 refugees from the Hamidian massacres (1894–1896) mainly originated from Diyarbakir (Dikranagerd), Aintab and Kilis; only about 100 of them stayed. The next wave of Armenian refugees were the about 2,000 who fled the Adana massacre in 1909, most of whom returned to their ancestral homes in Adana within the same year. However, the largest wave of Armenian refugees – some of whom had come before and returned – were the nearly 9,000 who escaped the massive deportations, the horrific massacres and the genocide perpetrated by the Ottomans and the Young Turks; about 1,300 of them decided to stay, while the others eventually made arrangements to settle in other countries. Those refugees came mainly from Adana and Seleucia (Silifke), while there a significant number of them came from Sis, Marash, Tarsus, Caesarea, Hadjin and Aintab; smaller numbers came from other places, alphabetically: Adapazar, Adrianople (Edirne), Afion-Karahisar, Alexandretta (Iskenderoun), Arapgir, Armash, Baghche, Bardizag, Balian Dagh, Biredjik, Bitlis, Brusa, Chemishgezek, Constantinople (Istanbul), Dörtyol, Edessa (Urfa), Erzerum, Eskishehir, Everek, Ikonion (Konya), Jeyhan, Kesab, Kharpert, Kutahia, Malatia, Mersin, Misis, Musa Dagh (Musa Ler), Nicomedia (Izmit), Rhaedestos (Tekirdagh), Sasun, Sebastia (Sivas), Shar, Sivri Hisar, Smyrna (Izmir)]], Tokat (Evdokia), Trepizond, Van, Yerzinga, Yozgat and Zeitun.\n\nArmenian-Cypriots have been politically organised since the late 19th century. The breakdown below examines their involvement in local administration, Cypriot politics and Armenian politics.\n\nWith regard to local administration, the Armenian participation has been limited. Traditionally, there is the appointed mukhtar of Nicosia's Karaman Zade quarter (the Armenian Quarter). So far, there have been 4 mukhtars: Melik Melikian (1927–1949), Kasbar Delyfer (1949–1956), Vahe Kouyoumdjian (1956–2009) and Mgo Kouyoumdjian (2011–today). Bedros Amirayan served as an appointed member of Famagusta's municipal committee (1903–1905), Dr. Antranik L. Ashdjian served as an appointed municipal councillor and, later on, Vice Mayor, for Nicosia (1964–1970), while Berge Kevorkian served as an appointed municipal councillor for Nicosia (1970–1986).\n\nWith the exception of the elected Representatives, so far there has been only one Armenian-Cypriot MP in the House of Representatives, Marios Garoyian. He was elected as an MP for Nicosia District on 21 May 2006 with the Democratic Party and in October 2006 he became the party's President. After the election of Demetris Christofias as President of the Republic of Cyprus in February 2008, Marios Garoyian was voted Speaker of the House of Representatives on 6 March 2008, the second highest political position in Cyprus. He was re-elected as an MP for Nicosia District on 22 May 2011 and he served as House Speaker until 2 June 2011.\n\nDespite its relatively small size, the Armenian-Cypriot community has been an active participant in Panarmenian politics already since the late 19th century, even though this became more established in the mid-20th century. All three major Armenian Diaspora parties are active in Cyprus, especially ARF Dashnaktsoutiun. It established its presence in Cyprus as early as in 1897 and it continued to be present on and off on the island until the early years of the 20th century. At that time, Cyprus was frequently used as a stepping stone for some European Armenian fedayees who had Asia Minor and Cilicia as their final destination. However, after the Armenian Genocide, the party presence became minimal, save for individual members, supporters and/or sympathisers, until it was re-organised after World War II and was officially re-established in 1947; its chapter is called \"Karenian\", after Armen Karo, who briefly visited Cyprus, in order to organise the assembly of weapons for the Zeitoun Resistance.\n\nARF Dashnaktsoutiun is affiliated with the Armenian Young Men's Association (AYMA) in Nicosia, the Armenian Club in Larnaca and the Limassol Armenian Young Men's Association (LHEM) in Limassol, as well as with the Armenian National Committee of Cyprus, the Armenian Youth Federation of Cyprus, the “Azadamard” Armenian Youth Centre, the Armenian Relief Society of Cyprus and the Hamazkayin Armenian Educational and Cultural Association of Cyprus, all based in Nicosia. The Armenian Relief Society chapter of Cyprus is called \"Sosse\", after Sosse Mayrig, who visited Cyprus in the summer of 1938, while the Hamazkayin chapter of Cyprus is called \"Oshagan\", after Hagop Oshagan, who had been a professor at the Melkonian Educational Institute between 1926–1934.\n\nThe ADL Ramgavar first appeared in Cyprus in the early 1930s, in the form of a core of party members. It also participated in the Diocesan Council elections of 1947, which caused a very big stir in community life. However, the party has officially been active in Cyprus since 1956. Its chapter is called \"Tekeyan\", after Vahan Tekeyan, who had been a professor at the Melkonian Educational Institute between 1934–1935. The party has never been very active on the island, mainly because it was overshadowed by the significant presence of the \"AGBU\", affiliated with ADL Ramgavar. Both organisations lost a substantial number of followers, when they \"repatriated\" to Armenia between 1962–1964, as part of the \"nerkaght\" (\"ներգաղթ – repatriation\") movement and when they realized that what was promised was not real.\n\nThe youngest Armenian political party in Cyprus is SDHP Hunchakian, which was set up on the island in 2005, following the split within the AGBU, which was brought about by the decision to close the Melkonian Educational Institute. It must be noted, though, that as Cyprus was frequently used as a stepping stone for some European Armenian fedayees who had Asia Minor and Cilicia as their final destination during the late 19th century and the early 20th century, a small number of the party's members temporarily stayed on the island during those times. SDHP Hunchakian is affiliated with the \"Nor Serount Cultural Association\" in Nicosia.\n\nThe Armenian-Cypriot community has been actively engaged in Panarmenian issues, such as the organisation of demonstrations and other forms of protest on matters that pertain to all Armenians. Other than promoting awareness and recognition of the Armenian Genocide, which is more extensively examined below, the Armenian-Cypriot community has been lobbying successfully in favour of the Nagorno-Karabakh Republic, as a result of which Cypriot politicians and EuroMPs are sympathetic towards its existence. During the last decade, the Armenian-Cypriot community was actively involved in the movement to raise awareness on the unilateral closure of the Melkonian Educational Institute by the AGBU (2004–2005), the Armenia-Turkey protocols and the extradition of Ramil Safarov to Azerbaijan (2012), as well as in events commemorating Hrant Dink's memory, organised every year since his murder in 2007.\n\nFinally, in recent years the Armenian-Cypriot community has been providing financial and humanitarian aid to Armenians in need around the world: it has provided assistance to earthquake-stricken Armenians in Armenia, after the 1988 earthquake, to orphans in Nagorno-Karabakh, to Armenians in Lebanon, Armenians in Greece and Armenians in Syria, as well as to Armenians in Armenia and Nagorno-Karabakh, through the \"Hayastan\" All-Armenian Fund.\n\nOn the level of the ordinary people, most Cypriots are aware of the great calamity the Armenian nation suffered during 1894–1923 and have always been supportive and sympathetic towards Armenians; the Armenian Genocide refugees who remained in Cyprus were in the unique position of escaping from Ottoman Turks and living amicably amongst Turkish-Cypriots.\n\nCyprus has been one of the pioneering countries in recognising the Armenian Genocide, when on 25 January 1965 Foreign Minister Spyros Kyprianou first raised the issue to the General Assembly of the United Nations. Prior to his powerful speech, a delegation comprising ARF Dashnaktsoutiun Bureau members Dr. Papken Papazian and Berj Missirlian, as well as Armenian National Committee of Cyprus members Anania Mahdessian and Vartkes Sinanian, handed him a memorandum urging Cyprus' support in raising the issue at the United Nations.\n\nCyprus was also the first European country (and the second world-wide, after Uruguay) to officially recognise the Armenian Genocide. On 24 April 1975, after the determined efforts and the submission by Representative Dr. Antranik L. Ashdjian, Resolution 36 was voted unanimously by the House of Representatives. Representative Aram Kalaydjian was instrumental in passing unanimously through the House of Representatives two more resolutions regarding the Armenian Genocide: Resolution 74/29–04–1982, submitted by the Foreign Relations' Parliamentary Committee, and Resolution 103/19–04–1990, submitted by all parliamentary parties. Resolution 103 declared 24 April as a National Remembrance Day of the Armenian Genocide in Cyprus.\n\nSince 1965, when Cypriot government officials started participating in the annual Armenian Genocide functions, Cyprus' political leaders are often keynote speakers in those functions organised to commemorate the Armenian Genocide. Over the last years, there is usually a march starting from the centre of Nicosia and ending at the Virgin Mary church in Strovolos, where a commemorative event takes place in front of the Armenian Genocide Monument; other events also take place, such as blood donations.\n\nThe Armenian-Cypriot community has traditionally had an active and structured social life. Various charity, cultural, educational and social events are organised, such as fund-raisers/bazaars, art/book exhibitions, dancing/theatre performances, balls, lunches, film screenings, camps/excursions in Cyprus and abroad (panagoum), as well as lectures and commemoration ceremonies regarding Armenia, Nagorno-Karabakh, the Armenian Diaspora and the Armenian Genocide.\n\nThe main venue for community events is the AYMA club and the \"Vahram Utidjian\" Hall, at the basement of the Armenian Prelature building, both in Strovolos, Nicosia. In the past, numerous events were organised at the Melkonian Educational Institute in Aglandjia, the hall of the Armenian Club in Nicosia or the hall of the old AGBU club in Nicosia. School events take place at the open amphitheatre or the newly built auditorium of Nicosia's Nareg Armenian School. More recently, some community events have been organised at the Larnaca Armenian Club or Limassol's Armenian church hall.\n\n\nWith the Independence of Cyprus, on 16 August 1960, under Article 2 § 3 of the Constitution, Armenians, and Catholics (both Marionite and Roman Catholic) were recognised as \"religious groups\". In the referendum held on 13 November 1960, all three religious groups opted to belong to the co-religious Greek-Cypriot community (as it was expected), something which consequently defined their political options in the game of inter-communal controversy and somewhat affected their relations with the Turkish-Cypriots, who in turn viewed them as an extension of the Greek-Cypriot political choices. This is why the religious groups were affected similarly during the inter-communal violence (1963–1964) and the Turkish invasion of Cyprus in 1974.\n\nArticle 110 § 3 recognises the administrative autonomy of the religious groups’ Churches, as it was established with the \"Hatt-ı Hümayun\" in 1856. According to Article 111, the three Churches retain their powers regarding matters of personal status. \"Law 95/1989\" transferred the jurisdiction of the ecclesiastical courts to the family courts, the configuration of which was defined by \"Law 87(I)/1994\"; of the three religious groups, only the Armenians participate in their workings.\n\nIn accordance with the provisions of Article 109 of the Constitution, Armenian-Cypriots were given political representation: as a result of their choice to belong to the Greek-Cypriot community, an Armenian and a Latin participated in the Nicosia members of the Greek Communal Chamber, while a Maronite participated in the Kyrenia members (\"Colonial Law 36/1959\", \"Colonial Law 6/1960\" and \"Greek Communal Chamber Law 8/1960\"). The two Communal Chambers, which acted as a Lower Parliament, had jurisdiction over all religious, educational, cultural and other affairs of communal nature (Article 87).\n\nWith the end of Turkish Cypriot representation in the common state in 1963 and the self-dissolution of the Greek Communal Chamber in 1965, it was decided to transfer the executive powers of the Greek Communal Chamber to the newly formed Ministry of Education and its legislative powers to the House of Representatives (\"Law 12/1965\"). According to the Decision of the Council of Ministers 4.907/29–07–1965, it was decided that the three Representatives would provisionally continue to represent their communities in the House on issues pertaining to the jurisdiction of their Chamber and that the House was to request their opinion before legislating on pertinent matters (\"Law 12/1965\"). In order to approximate the tenure of the other MPs, the term of the three Representatives was annually extended (\"Law 45/1965\", \"Law 49/1966\", \"Law 50/1967\", \"Law 87/1968\" and \"Law 58/1969\"). The status of the three Representatives in the House of Representatives was confirmed with \"Law 58/1970\" and furthermore specified with \"Law 38/1976\", \"Law 41/1981\" and \"Law 66(I)/2011\". Since 1991, the elections for the three Representatives have been held simultaneously and in parallel with the general parliamentary elections and the Representatives’ term is identical with that of the proper MPs (\"Law 70/1986\").\n\nThe Representatives act as liaisons between their communities and the state and they are \"par excellence\" competent to bring before the state all issues relating to their group. Their participation has a 5-year duration and a consultative character, as although they can express their views on matters relating to their group, they do not have the right to vote. Especially in the case of the Armenians, the Representative delivers a speech about the Armenian Genocide during the plenary session of the House convened on or near 24 April each year. So far, six (6) Armenian Representatives have served: Berge Tilbian from Nicosia (1960–1970), Dr. Antranik L. Ashdjian from Nicosia (1970–1982), Aram Kalaydjian from Larnaca (1982–1995), Bedros Kalaydjian from Larnaca (1995–2005), Dr. Vahakn Atamyan from Nicosia (2005–2006) and Vartkes Mahdessian from Nicosia (2006–today).\n\nSince 1998, the elected Representative is \"ex officio\" member of the Diocesan Council (\"Թեմական Ժողով\") of the Armenian Ethnarchy (\"Ազգային Իշխանութիւն\").\n\nThe first elections for the Armenian member of the Greek Communal Chamber took place on 5 August 1960 between \"Vahram Levonian\" and Berge Tilbian, who was elected after receiving 60.49% (1,364 votes). Between 1965–1970, the term of office for the Armenian, the Maronite and the Latin Representatives was extended by special laws, until \"Law 58/1970\" was enacted, properly including them in the House of Representatives. The second elections were held on 19 July 1970 between \"Berge Tilbian\" and Dr. Antranik L. Ashdjian, who was elected after receiving 56.30% (590 votes); Dr. Antranik L. Ashdjian was re-elected on 3 October 1976, with \"Aram Kalaydjian\" as his opponent, after receiving 50.96% (612 votes).\n\nThe next elections were held on 14 March 1982 between \"Dr. Antranik L. Ashdjian\" and Aram Kalaydjian, who secured 58.36% (771 votes); Aram Kalaydjian was re-elected on 13 July 1986, with \"Anna Ashdjian\" as his opponent, after securing 65.08% (792 votes), and again on 19 May 1991, again winning over \"Anna Ashdjian\" and receiving 67.00% (875 votes). Because of Aram Kalaydjian's death on 10 September 1995, a by-election was held on 22 October 1995, between \"Kevork Mahdessian\" and Bedros Kalaydjian, who won with 60.34% (849 votes). Bedros Kalaydjian was re-elected on 26 May 1996, securing 73.91% (997 votes) against \"Anna Ashdjian\" and again on 27 May 2001, receiving 57.13% (857 votes) against \"Dr. Garabed Khatcho-Kazandjian\".\n\nBecause of Bedros Kalaydjian's death on 1 September 2005, a by-election was held on 9 October 2005, with Dr. Vahakn Atamyan receiving 52.03% (769 votes) against \"Dr. Antranik Ashdjian\" (43.91%) and \"Parsegh Zartarian\" (4.12%). The next elections took place on 21 May 2006, with Vartkes Mahdessian receiving 52.60% (899 votes) against \"Dr. Vahakn Atamyan\". The most recent elections were held on 22 May 2011, with Mahdessian securing 67.67% (1,105 votes) against \"Dr. Antranik Ashdjian\".\n\nAlthough not elected, the Armenians in Nicosia also have a \"mukhtar\", appointed by the Ministry of Interior. The first mukhtar was Melik Melikian (1927–1949), succeeded by Kasbar Delyfer (1949–1956) and Vahe Kouyoumdjian (1956–2009). As of 1 January 2011, the current Armenian mukhtar is Mgo Kouyoumdjian.\n\nLike most communities of the Armenian Diaspora, the Armenian-Cypriot community is predominantly Armenian Apostolic (about 95%). Some 5% belong either to the Armenian Evangelical Church, Armenian Catholic Church, Roman Catholic Church, Greek Orthodox Church, Anglican Church, Plymouth Brethren Church, Seventh-day Adventist Church or they are Jehovah's Witnesses; of this 5%, historically the most significant groups have been Armenian Evangelicals, who in the 1940s and 1950s comprised about 10% of the Armenian-Cypriot community, and Armenian-Catholics, who have been on the island since the time of the Crusades.\n\nThe Armenian Prelature of Cyprus was established in 973 by Catholicos Khatchig I. Historically, the Prelature has been under the jurisdiction of the Catholicosate of the Great House of Cilicia, while today it is the oldest \"theme\" that falls under its jurisdiction. Since 2014 the Prelate, a Catholicosal Vicar General, has been \"Archbishop Nareg Alemezian\". The parish priest in Nicosia is \"Fr. Momik Habeshian\", while the parish priest in Larnaca and Limassol is \"Fr. Mashdots Ashkarian\". For centuries, the Prelature building was located within the Armenian compound in Victoria street in walled Nicosia; when that area was taken over by Turkish-Cypriot extremists in 1963–1964, the Prelature was temporarily housed in Aram Ouzounian street and, later on, in Kyriakos Matsis street in Ayios Dhometios. Thanks to the efforts of Bishop Zareh Aznavorian and with financial aid from the Evangelical Church of Westphalia, the new Prelature building was erected in 1983, next to the Sourp Asdvadzadzin church and the Nareg school in Nicosia, by architects Athos Dikaios & Alkis Dikaios; it was officially inaugurated on 4 March 1984, during the pastoral visit of Catholicos Karekin II. By initiative of Archbishop Varoujan Hergelian, in 1998 the basement of the building was renovated and the \"Vahram Utidjian\" Hall was formed; previously a store room, it became a reality from the proceeds of the auction in 1994 of the art collection that Vahram Utidjian had donated to the Prelature in 1954. It was inaugurated on 3 February 1999 by Catholicos Aram I; numerous charity, communal and cultural events take place there. The Prelature's consistory houses a collection of ecclesiastical relics, some of which were previously in the old Notre Dame de Tyre church or the Magaravank.\n\nThe first Armenian Evangelicals in Cyprus came after the arrival of the British in July 1878. As they were not committed, and very few, they quickly became associated with the Armenian Apostolic Church. With the influx of more Protestants, Armenian Evangelicals became affiliated with the Reformed Presbyterian Church as early as 1887. In 1933, the newly formed Cyprus Synod of the |Reformed Presbyterian Church divided its congregations into Armenian and Greek councils. Armenian Evangelicals were granted provisional autonomy from the Reformed Presbyterian Mission in 1954, which was formalised in 1962. In Larnaca, Armenian Evangelicals dwindled after the inter-communal troubles of 1963–1964, services were no longer held; in Nicosia, the Armenian Evangelical church fell into Turkish-Cypriot control during the inter-communal troubles and so services were then held at the American Academy chapel until 1973. After nearly 30 years of inactivity, by initiative of Nouvart Kassouni-Panayiotides and Lydia Gulesserian and with the help of Hrayr Jebejian, Executive Secretary of the Bible Society in the Gulf Armenian Evangelicals were re-organised at the Greek Evangelical church in Larnaca in 2002. Since 2005, when Hrayr Jebejian moved to Cyprus, services are held every few months at the Greek Evangelical church in Nicosia. Also, the Armenian Evangelical Church organizes a few lectures in Nicosia.\n\nArmenian-Catholics first came to the island during the Frankish Era from the nearby Armenian Kingdom of Cilicia. It is unclear whether they had their own structure during the Latin Era or if they were under the Latin Church of Cyprus, as has been the case since the Ottoman Era. During the Ottoman Era, there was a very limited conversion of Armenian Orthodox to Catholicism, mainly due to the proselytising activities of the Franciscan mission in Nicosia and Larnaca, especially during the 17th and 18th centuries; however, these must have been temporary apostasies and their number never exceeded 50 at any given time. In 1794 the small Armenian Catholic community of Larnaca was granted some holy chalices from the auction of the belongings of the old Capuchin monastery of the town. It was during the British Era that the Armenian-Catholic community increased in number, due to the arrival of a large number of refugees from the Armenian genocide. In 1931, there were about 200 Armenian-Catholics in Cyprus most of them became attached to the Latin places of worship, especially the Holy Cross cathedral in Nicosia and Saint Joseph's convent in Larnaca; between 1921-1923, the latter housed a small Armenian-Catholic school, run by Abbot Jean Kouyoumdjian - who served at the convent between 1921-1928. In 1960, there were less than 100 Armenian-Catholics. However, their number decreased in the following years, due to emigration to other countries and assimilation with the Armenian-Cypriot, the Latin-Cypriot and/or the Greek-Cypriot community. However, due to the influx of Lebanese-Armenians to Cyprus since the mid-1970s, there has been a small increase in the number of Armenian-Catholics on the island. Currently, local Armenian-Catholics are less than 20, in addition to about 30 foreign Armenians.\n\nThere are five Armenian Orthodox churches in Cyprus, two in the capital Nicosia (one in the north) and one in each Larnaca, Limassol and Famagusta. Additionally, there are three Armenian chapels in the vicinity of Nicosia and one within the Magaravank complex, the latter in the north. There is also an Armenian Evangelical church in North Nicosia. Finally, there is the renowned Magaravank in the north.\n\nArmenians have always attached particular emphasis in education, which – in conjunction with the Church – is the foundation for the preservation of their national and cultural heritage. Armenian schools teach Armenology, which includes Armenian history and traditions, ensuring the perpetuation of Armenianism from generation to generation.\n\nThe Armenian-Cypriot community has several historical monuments, including the Armenian Genocide Monument in Nicosia and a mortar obelisk dedicated to Abbot Mekhitar.\n\nThe original Armenian quarter (13th - late 15th/early 16th century) may have been located in the eastern part of Frankish Nicosia and that Armenians acquired their new quarter within the 16th century. After the conquest of the city in 1570, the Ottomans renamed the extant Armenian quarter to \"Karamanzade mahallesi\" (literally: quarter of the son of Karaman), in honour of one of the Generals who took part in the conquest of Cyprus and came from Karaman Eyalet. From the 16th century to December 1963, the western part of walled Nicosia formed what was known as the Armenian Quarter ( in Greek language), '( in Armenian language) or ( in Turkish language). Administratively, the Armenian Quarter included both the Karaman Zade quarter and the Arab Ahmed Pasha quarter.\n\nAfter the British Empire gained control of Cyprus from the Ottoman Empire, this part of the city housed several British officers. Their presence, together with that of the Latins, gave it the unofficial Greek name for \"Levantine Quarter\". The first hotels of Nicosia opened on Victoria street during this time, including the \"Armenian Hotel\" (c. 1875- c. 1925) and the \"Army and Navy Hotel\" (1878 - c. 1890), resulting in the first cutting of the Venetian walls at the end of Victoria street.\n\nThe heart of the Armenian quarter was Victoria street (\"Վիքթորիա փողոց/οδός Βικτωρίας/Viktorya sokağı\"), in which the Armenian compound was located, as well as many houses and, at a later time, the AGBU club house; at times, AYMA's club house was there as well. Victoria street was the road that every Armenian-Cypriot would walk on to go to church, to school, to the clubs, to visit family, relatives and friends etc. One could see all the time Armenian-Cypriots walking around the narrow streets amidst a profusion of Oriental smells and a chatter in Armenian. The street, full of beautiful ashlar buildings, started from the Latin church of the Holy Cross and ended at the Arab Ahmed Pasha mosque, having Mahmoud Pasha street as its extension (where the American Academy Nicosia was between 1922-1955 and the Armenian Evangelical church since 1946). As it was a one-way street, traffic was only allowed from the north to the south.\n\nDuring the Cypriot intercommunal violence, a large part of the Armenian Quarter of Nicosia was gradually taken over by Turkish Cypriots between 21 December 1963 and 19 January 1964. Most Armenian-Cypriots left their homes during this time, while other families stayed for a longer period in tents at the grounds of the Melkonian Educational Institute.\n\nThe Armenian quarter was also home to many Turkish Cypriots, as well as some Greek-Cypriots, Maronite-Cypriots, Roman Catholic Cypriots and British nationals.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4721540", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4721540", "title": "Astrological Association of Great Britain", "text": "Astrological Association of Great Britain\n\nThe Astrological Association is a British astrological organisation. The Astrological Association of Great Britain (AA) was formed in London on the 21st June 1958. Its founding members, notably John Addey and Roy Firebrace, were members of the Astrological Lodge of the Thesosophical Society. John Addey later become President of the AA. The AA produces three publications - the \"Astrological Journal\", published six times a year, \"Correlation\", published biannually, and the \"Medical Astrology Newsletter\". In 2002 the AA said their membership was \"something over a thousand\".\n\nIn 2013 the organisation was awarded charity status and the name was legally changed to 'The Astrological Association'.\n\nThe aims of the Astrological Association are: \nthe advancement of education of the public by the critical study of astrology in all its branches; to encourage and draw together all students of astrology; to enlarge and integrate the knowledge of astrology; to co-ordinate and publish results as desirable and generally work for the more widespread understanding of astrology.\n\nIt holds events and seminars throughout the year, along with an annual conference that draws astrologers from all over the world.\n"}
{"id": "52198260", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52198260", "title": "Baltic Assembly Prize for Literature, the Arts and Science", "text": "Baltic Assembly Prize for Literature, the Arts and Science\n\nThe Baltic Assembly Prize for Literature, the Arts and Science is an award given annually by the Baltic Assembly for achievements in three categories: literature, art and science.\n\nThe prize is an annual award given to a citizen of Estonia, Latvia or Lithuania \"for outstanding achievements\" in three categories: literature, art and science. It was awarded for the first time in 1994 and consists of a statuette, a diploma and a sum of money, presently (2016) 5,000 euro. It is awarded during the formal session of the assembly. A joint jury consisting of three persons per prize make the decision on whom to award the prize. The purpose of the award is according to the Baltic Assembly to \"demonstrate the common interests of the countries in this region in upholding of their national identity and self-esteem; create an opportunity to learn about the achievements of the neighbouring countries; maintain a continuous interest among the people in Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania about developments in the Baltic States; strengthen cooperation among the Baltic States in the fields of literature, the arts and science; encourage more and more people to become interested in the intellectual values and languages of the Baltic nations; and raise the level of literature, the arts and science in the Baltic States.\"\n\nThe following list is based on the official webpage of the Baltic Assembly.\nThe following list is based on the official webpage of the Baltic Assembly.\nThe following list is based on the official webpage of the Baltic Assembly.\n"}
{"id": "44134238", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44134238", "title": "Beckman Young Investigators Award", "text": "Beckman Young Investigators Award\n\nThe Beckman Young Investigators Award was established by Mabel and Arnold Beckman in 1991, and is now administered by the Arnold and Mabel Beckman Foundation. The Beckman Young Investigator (BYI) Program is intended to provide research support to promising young faculty members in the early stages of their academic careers. Awardees receive a substantial grant, over a period of three years. The intent is to foster \"innovative departures\" and the invention of methods, instruments and materials that will open up new avenues of research in the chemical and life sciences. It has been awarded to the following scientists.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5720089", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5720089", "title": "Bisaya (Borneo)", "text": "Bisaya (Borneo)\n\nThe Bisaya are an indigenous people of the north-west and the coast line of Borneo, Malaysia. They mostly live near the Beaufort district, the Padas River also Kuala Penyu in the Sabah region. There are also some Bisaya living in Kampung Manunggang, Sabah, which follow no religion and along the Limbang River in the northern state Sarawak. Nowadays the Bisaya living in Sabah are Muslim, while the Bisaya living in Sarawak are mostly Animism, with a smaller Muslim community. In Brunei, they are referred as \"Dusun\", \"Jati Dusun\" and \"Bisaya\" (Though they are not to be confused with the Dusun people of Sabah). The Bisaya people are also regarded as a relatives of the Dayak people whereas Bisaya was not brought into Borneo instead they are aboriginal of the land.\n\nSeveral theories have been put forward by various researchers regarding the origins of the name of the Bisaya people. Beyer H.O. in 1926, Hester E.D. in 1954 and Harrison in 1956 suggested that the name may have come from the empire of Sri Vijaya (Sonza, 1972). However, in 1960, Eugene Vestraelen (Professor of Linguistics at the University of San Carlos, Cebu City) cautioned that the linguistic derivation of \"Vijaya\" would not be \"Bisaya\" but \"Bidaya\", or \"Biraya\".\n\nIn 1960, John Carol suggested that the name originated from a cultural hero named Sri Visaya.\n\nAnother theory is that the word Visaya (or Bisaya, as it is pronounced in the Philippines) comes from the word for the Hindu merchant, trader, herder, artisan, landowner (etc.) caste: the \"Vaishyas\", which can be traced back to Sanskrit, and assume that the label was given by the Sri Vijayans and others pirates and traders coming from India.\n\nBisaya's indigenous people settled in Borneo thousands of years ago. The Bisaya were a people who were loved, feared and respected by others on the island. They are skilled in agriculture, particularly in the areas such as paddy planting, ginger, sago, local ginger, tapioca, banana, yam, pepper, coconut. They also hunt animals and breed others, such as chicken, duck, goose, goat, buffalo, cows and many more.\n\nBisaya people are skilled in catching fish either from the river or at sea, and they can hold their breath under water without drowning. One of the tragic stories of the Bisaya happened a few hundred years ago when Awang Kuyoh, son of Awang Alak Betatar was drowned by the Sulu people, who took his wife back to Sulu Island. Legend has it that the Bisaya sailor called Awang Semaun and his crew sailed around this island starting from Klias River, and he tied a handkerchief in front of the boat. When he arrived at the starting point, the handkerchief was torn and that's how this island came to be called Handkerchief Island or Pulau Sapu Tangan or Pulau Peraca in local language. The Imperial Colony called it Borneo. From Spanish records, this island was known as Borneo during the first visit of the Portuguese sailor Magellan, in service of the Spanish Crown.\n\nThe popular legend of the Bisaya origin as described Bewsher(1958),Sandin(1971) and Hussain & Newman(1987) goes as follows:-\n\nIn 1370, Ma-ho-mo-sha [Maha Mokhsa] was a King of Barunai [P'o-ni]. A Chinese mission commanded by Chang Ching Tze dispatched to P'o-ni in 1370 (9th month, 3rd year of Hung-wa), found the king in a burned out capital with just 1,000 inhabitants. He sent a tribute mission to the Emperor of China in August 1371.\n\nSome versions of the Syair Awang Semaun trace the foundation of Brunei to fourteen saudara (brothers and first cousins). Other versions say they were all sons of Dewa Amas of Kayangan, a supernatural being who fell to earth in an egg at Ulu Limbang, and fathered them by fourteen different aboriginal wives:\n\n\nPaduka Sri Sultan Muhammad Shah[1363–1402], Sultan of Brunei, a younger son of Dewa Amas of Kayangan, by an aboriginal lady. He was chosen by the saudara to become the first ruler. Constructed his palace at Pirasung. Legends have Brunei founded some 29 reigns ago by 14 brothers of heroic stature and semi-divine descent, according to a Monograph of the Brunei Museum Journal. The exploits of the 14 founding heroes of Brunei are recounted in a very lengthy poem called the \"Sha'er Awang Semaun.\". Awang Alak Betatar was not the eldest, but was chosen to be their leader because of his intelligence and good looks. He was installed Sultan of Brunei and he remarried with the daughter of the Sultan of Johor.\n\nThe name of Borneo was the first known as Bonian among the Bisaya people. When the native bisaya converted into Islam together with their leader Awang Alak Betatar, the word was change from Bonian into Bornian due to the mother tongue of the preacher which is came from Taif, Arab Saudi. At the same time the native people had to pronounce Borneo until the Malaysia Day in 1963. Today it was known as Sabah.\n\nIn 1959, Tun Datu Haji Mustapha Datu Harun met Sultan Tunku Laxamana Awang Ishak Ismail Jalil in a place called Kampung Takuli, Beaufort, Sabah. He was to convey a message of freeing the Borneo from British Colonial. Tun Mustapha asked Sultan Tunku Laxamana Awang Ishak his view regarding the new name of Borneo . The Sultan Tunku Laxamana Awang Ishak told Tun Mustapha to use Sabah as the name of the state. That is his ancestor Awang Alak Betatar mentioned the word Mongoi da sasabah every times he wants to go to the sea. The meaning is let's go fishing to the sea whereas the island was surrounded by the sea and had a lot fish.\n\nTun Mustapha had offered Sultan Tunku Laxamana Awang Ishak to form Sabah Rulers but he rejected it because he is too old. According to the record his age is almost bicentennials. He prays someday his grandchildren will embrace all the people with the information when the times come and may them guidance by Allah the Almighty. The census of Bisaya is at least 1,000,000 people throughout Borneo (Sabah, Sarawak, Brunei and Kalimantan) and West Malaysia. Most of them lived in Sabah.\n\nThe legend tells of an immigrant family living in the North of the Borneo Island. In this family were seven children, six boys (Peti Barambai or Pati Barabai, si Garamba, Peti Garamba, Peti Runa or Pati Begunak, Smaun or Si Maun and Alak Batata or Urak Betatar or Lok Batata or Awang Alah Bertabar) and a girl (Siti Duyah or Duri or Bunga Sunting). A boat race was used to determine who was to become the Rajah of Brunei.\n\nThis race was won by Alak Betatar the youngest brother. He became the first Rajah of Brunei and later converted to Islam and became Sultan Mohammed, the first Sultan of Brunei. Peti Barambai, the eldest brother, became the Raja of Java. Si Garamba settled in the Limbang area and became the ancestor of the Bisaya's. Peti Garamba settled in the Tutong(Brunei),Peti Runa in the Kinabatangan River (Sabah) and Smaun in the Birau River(south of Tutong). Siti Duyah married a Chinese named Awang Sunting (or Ong Sum Ping) and settled near Mount Kinabalu (Sabah).\n\nIn the year 977, we are told, Hianzta, king of Puni, sent envoys to China, who presented tribute with the following words: \"May the emperor live thousands and tens of thousands of years, and may he not disapprove of the poor civilities of my little country.\" The envoys presented a letter from the king. This was written on' what looked like the very thin bark of a tree; it was glossy, slightly green, several feet long, and somewhat broader than one inch; the characters in which\nit was written were small, and had to be read horizontally. In all these particulars the letter resembled the books of magic which are still written by the Battas of inland Sumatra. The message ran: \"The king of Puni, called Hianzta, prostrates himself before the most august emperor, and hopes that the emperor may live ten thousands of years. I have now sent envoys to carry tribute; I knew before that there was an emperor, but I had no means of communication. Recently\nthere was a merchant called Pu Lu, whose ship arrived at the mouth of my river; I sent a man to invite him to my place, and he told me that he came from China. The people of my country were much delighted at this, and preparing a ship, asked this stranger to guide them to the court. The envoys I have sent only wish to see Your Majesty in peace, and I intend to send people with tribute every year. But when I do so I fear that my ships may occasionally be blown to Champa, and I therefore hope Your Majesty will send an edict to that country with orders that, if a ship of Hianzta arrives there, it must not be detained. My country has no other articles, and I pray Your Majesty not to be angry with me.\" The envoys were entertained and sent home with presents.\n\nHow early the Arab doctrines were taught in Barunai is impossible to state with any precision. Local tradition ascribes their introduction to the renowned Awang Alak Betatar, afterwards known as Sultan Mohammad Shah. Like most of his subjects this warrior was a Bisaya, and in early life he was not a Muslim, not indeed a civilised potentate at all, to judge by conventional standards; for the chief mark of his royal dignity was an immense chawat, or loin-cloth, escorted by eighty men, forty in front and forty behind. He is the earliest monarch of whom the present Barunais have any knowledge, a fact to be accounted for partly by the brilliance of his exploits, partly by the introduction about that time of Arabic writing. After much fighting he subdued the people of Igan, Kalaka, Seribas, Sadong,Semarahan, and Sarawak [Most of the ethnics extinct due to illness and disease] and compelled them to pay tribute. He stopped the annual payment to Majapahit of one jar of pinang juice,a useless commodity though troublesome to collect. During his reign the Muruts or Lun Bawang were brought under Barunai rule by peaceful measures,and the Chinese colony was kept in good humour by the marriage of the Barunai king's brother and successor to the daughter of one of the principal Chinamen.\n\nThis is an interesting account in many ways, and tallies very closely with what other evidence would lead one to suspect. For there is reason to think that Barunai, before it became Muslim, was a Bisaya kingdom under Buddhist sovereigns and Hindu influence; and nearly all the particulars given with regard to the people of Borneo are true of one or other of the races allied to Bisayas and living near Barunai to-day.\n\nIt was believed that Awang Alak Betatar had made two weapons as the symbol of his throne. The weapons were handmade and created from the rock of star and the shape is similar to each other which is black and long sword. Sultan Awang Koyoh was the successor of his father's throne after he left Kota Klias and Awang Koyoh have keep that sword of star. Awang Alak Betatar became barunah or barunai ruler and called as Sultan Mohammad Shah. A Keris also part of a weapon which became as a symbol of Kota Klias throne. It was believed to be lost during the assassination of Awang Koyoh nearby Labuan water. Some fishermen had caught a big fish with this Keris some 60 years ago.\n\nThe Keris and the Andiban were both made from gold. It was told by the eldest, when Awang Alak Betatar killed the wild buffalo or tambadau, the golden horns was discovered by Awang Alak and that inspired him to create another small and secret weapons.\n\nSabah Bisaya language has 90% intelligibility of Tatana, a Dusun dialect. Bisaya in Sabah also has 58% lexical similarity with dialects of Sarawak Bisaya and 57%–59% with Brunei dialect.\n\nThe traditional musical instrument consists of Kulintangan, gong, and many of small gongs (cf. Asmahs claim that the Bisaya are supposed to be the best gong musicians). It is as if somebody just beats the gong and everyone-men, women, young and old just starts to dance. All these instruments are used in the wedding ceremony, celebrating very important people etc.\nBesides the musical items, the Bisayas are able to make good weapons for various purposes. There are andiban, sumpit, parang, keris and knife.\n\nThe majority of the Muslims Bisaya lives in Sabah and some of them live in Sarawak as a Christian. Though they treasure their cultural tradition of medicine, marriages, death etc., they don't actually practice it now, possibly due to the influence of the religion. Even though they would call the traditional medicine men or women known as \"Bobolian\" to perform rites in times of illness, many now would go to the clinics available around their places for treatment.\n\n\n\n\nWhite shirt, Songket, Tarbus, smoking pipe, Keris, bracelet etc.\n\n\nThe Rumbia's leaves can be woven into a roof, the women are trained by their elders (women ) to inherit the rumbia-weaving skill. The Rumbia'leaves known as roun rombia in Bisaya dialect. Meanwhile, the process of weaving the Rumbia's leaves known as manyarut. The woven Rumbia's leaves need to be dried under the sun. These leaves would last for two to three years, environment-friendly.\n\nIn the past, the branch of Rumbia tree used as wall for a house or hut ( in the farm ). The branch can be used to build chicken home, fence to guard the plants ( vegetables etc. ) and the dried branch used as a torch ( to spread the fire; to clear the land for agriculture purpose ). Meanwhile, skin of the branch can be woven into basket, mat, and others. Among the well-known woven stuff from this Rumbia parts are saging (a kind of basket carried at the back of a person), lalibu (a flat woven-basket useful during paddy harvesting), and topau (a mat used to dry the paddy seed).\n\nWe start from the upper part, here we can get a punoh, this part is a delicious 'vegetable'. Can be eaten raw, sweet and soft. The punoh served as main menu (vegetable) during wedding reception among Bisaya community. Then, sago (staple food of Bisaya, young generation didn't agree with this) is extracted from the Rumbia's trunk. The skin (palunoh) of Rumbia tree can be used a firewood, floor for hut, and wall too. The trunk can be used as a bridge, it is a strong trunk and last longer. During flood, my brothers and I used to build a boat from the Rumbia tree. I missed those days, we are adult now. In case of emergency, you can get water from the roots of Rumbia tree. It tastes water, of course.\n\nOne of their main festivals called Babulang or Mibulang such as buffalo racing is celebrated annually in Batu Danau, Sarawak near the Brunei border. More photos of the festival in June 2006 showing their black traditional costumes and their buffalo racing tradition are available on flickr at \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55868414", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55868414", "title": "Caucasian Tatars", "text": "Caucasian Tatars\n\nCaucasian Tatar is an old term used to describe the Turkic population of Azerbaijan (South Caucasian Tatars) & Kumyks of Dagestan (North Caucasian Tatars or Dagestan Tatars). \nIn 1848, a professor of the \"Caucasian Tatar\" (Kumyk) Timofey Makarov published the first ever grammatical book in Russian language for one of the Northern Caucasian languages - which was international Kumyk. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "1423677", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1423677", "title": "Conflict escalation", "text": "Conflict escalation\n\nConflict escalation is the process by which conflicts grow in severity over time. This may refer to conflicts between individuals or groups in interpersonal relationships, or it may refer to the escalation of hostilities in a political or military context. In systems theory, the process of conflict escalation is modeled by positive feedback.\n\nWhile the word \"escalation\" was used as early as in 1938, it was popularized during the Cold War by two important books: \"On Escalation\" (Herman Kahn, 1965) and \"Escalation and the Nuclear Option\" (Bernard Brodie, 1966). In these contexts, it especially referred to war between two states with weapons of mass destruction—the Cold War.\n\nConflict escalation has a tactical role in military conflict, and is often formalized with explicit rules of engagement. Highly successful military tactics exploit a particular form of conflict escalation; for example, controlling an opponent's reaction time allows the tactician to pursue or trap his opponent. Napoleon and Heinz Guderian both advocated this approach. Sun Tzu elaborated it in a more abstract form, and additionally maintained that military strategy was about minimizing escalation, and diplomacy about eliminating it.\n\nThe United States Marine Corps' \"Continuum of Force\" (found in MCRP 3-02B) documents the stages of conflict escalation in combat for a typical subject. They are:\n\nThe subject responds to and obeys verbal commands. He refrains from close combat.\n\nThe subject resists verbal commands but complies to commands immediately upon contact controls. He refrains from close combat.\n\nInitially, the subject physically resists commands, but he can be made to comply by compliance techniques; these include come-along holds, soft-handed stunning blows, and techniques inducing pain by joint manipulation and pressure points.\n\nThe unarmed subject physically attacks his opponent. He can be controlled by certain defensive tactics, including blocks, strikes, kicks, enhanced pain compliance procedures, impact weapon blocks and blows.\n\nThe subject has a weapon and will likely kill or injure someone unless controlled. This is only possible by lethal force, which possibly requires firearms or weapons.\n\nA major focus of peace and conflict theory is concerned with curbing conflict escalation or creating a mindset to avoid such conflict in future, and instead engaging in peacemaking. Much nonviolent conflict resolution, however, involves conflict escalation in the form of protests, strikes, or other direct actions.\n\nMohandas Gandhi, a major proponent of nonviolence, used satyagraha to demonstrate that:\n\nWith this method of escalation, Gandhi avoided technological escalation and demonstrated to those in power that:\n\nThe conflict escalation curve is a concept created by Michael N. Nagler. The conflict escalation curve proposes that the intensity of a conflict is directly related to how far dehumanization has proceeded. In other words, conflicts escalate in the degree to which parties dehumanize one another (or one party is dehumanizing the other).\n\nThe curve conceptualizes a typical trajectory a conflict would have if it were plotted on an (x,y) graph with (x) being time elapsed and (y) being the intensity of dehumanization. Depending upon which stage a conflict is on the graph, a specific set of responses is needed.\nThe curve divides the appropriate responses into three stages.\n\nIn the first stage no serious dehumanization has occurred by either party. Attempts are made mainly to make one's views known, with the expectation that the other may respond right away or respond to conflict resolution or nonviolent communication to address the adversary. Tools used at this stage include: petitions, protest demonstrations, negotiation, mediation, and arbitration.\n\nThe conflict escalates into satyagraha, or nonviolent direct action, only when conflict resolution has been tried and the other party has not been persuaded by reason or the other tools used in Stage 1. Satyagraha invokes what Gandhi called \"the law of suffering\"—taking on rather than inflicting the suffering that is inherent in the situation.\n\nInvoking satyagraha is a way to move the heart of the adversary, as opposed to appealing merely to the head, in Stage 1. Gandhi observed: \"The conviction has been growing upon me that things of fundamental importance to the people are not secured by reason alone, but have to be purchased with their suffering. If you want something really important to be done, you must not merely satisfy the reason, you must move the heart also. The penetration of the heart comes from suffering.\" Tools used at this stage include: strikes, boycotts, civil disobedience, defiance of orders.\n\nWhen the conflict has reached life-or-death intensity and when petition and nonviolent resistance have failed, a satyagrahi will sometimes deliberately court the possibility of death as a last resort to open the heart of the opponent. Gandhi's famous \"fasts unto death\" during the Indian freedom struggle is an example, as well as the courageous work of activists like Kathy Kelly who, when all else failed, have repeatedly gone into war zones to share the fate of the victims and awaken their oppressors.\n\nThe philosophy behind Stage 3 is that being willing to risk dying can often awaken a stubborn adversary even if death does not ensue. Fasting unto death, for example, when contrasted with self-immolation, gives the opponent a chance to respond and save the life of the satyagrahi in question. Self-immolation should perhaps be considered an extreme form of protest rather than the final stage in nonviolent persuasion.\n\nThe conflict escalation curve helps those in a movement have a sense of where they are in their conflict and what is an appropriate response; it would be wrong to reach for an extreme method like fasting (which is Stage 3: Sacrifice) in a situation when all available tools in Stage 1 or 2 have not been tried.\n\nFor example, in 2003, US President George W. Bush dismissed the global anti-Iraq protests, the largest such protests since the Vietnam War, as \"a focus group,\" saying: \"Size of protest—it's like deciding, well, I'm going to decide policy based upon a focus group.\" The President's lack of acknowledgement of protesters' demands as well as his unwillingness to engage in negotiations were an indication that it was necessary for the movement to quickly move to Stage 2 if they were to get any response. This was not forthcoming.\n\nCarol Moore, a later theorist, examined and described Gandhi's methods from the perspective of systems theory. Jay Forrester and Donella Meadows observed that people in crisis would often push the twelve leverage points towards escalation in the first stage, and then reduce escalation when the resistance had weakened and it was impossible to maintain the status quo.\n\n"}
{"id": "48196320", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48196320", "title": "Conviction and exoneration of Glenn Ford", "text": "Conviction and exoneration of Glenn Ford\n\nGlenn Ford (October 29, 1949 – June 29, 2015) was convicted of murder in 1984 and released from Angola Prison in March 2014 after a full exoneration. Ford was born in Shreveport, Louisiana. He was the longest serving death row inmate in the United States to be fully exonerated before his death. He was denied compensation by the state of Louisiana for his wrongful conviction.\n\nIsadore Rozeman, 58, was found dead in his jewelry store on November 5, 1983, by Shreveport police who had been notified by acquaintance Dr. A. R. Ebrahim that the shop appeared to be in disarray. Rozeman had been murdered with a single gunshot wound to the back of the head. Glenn Ford, Rozeman's yard man, was known to be in the vicinity of the store at the time of the murder and identified by multiple people at the trial. He was known to be with Jake and Henry Robinson after the crime, showing materials stolen from the crime scene as well as a .22 calibre pistol belonging to Jake. An acquaintance of Ford testified that he had a .38 pistol in his waistband the morning of the crime, the same caliber bullet found at the crime scene. Police initially were unable to find any evidence of the crime at Ford's residence, but did find residue from a gunshot wound on his left hand (he is left-handed). Ford was immediately taken into custody. Evidence was, however, found in Henry Robinson's possession, as well as pawn shop receipts in Ford's name from the date of the murder.\n\nFord was assigned two attorneys by the state due to his inability to pay for a lawyer on his own. Both were selected from an alphabetical listing of lawyers from the local bar association. The lead attorney was an oil and gas lawyer who had never tried a case, criminal or civil, before a jury. The second attorney had been out of law school for only two years and worked at an insurance defense firm on slip and fall cases. Prosecutors were able to take advantage of the defense's inexperience and use a peremptory challenge capacity to keep African Americans off the jury, resulting in an all Caucasian jury with a Caucasian judge. Ford was convicted and sentenced to death by the jury without a murder weapon linking him to the crime, and with evidence from confidential informants withheld.\n\nBarry Scheck of the Innocence Project has levied the accusation that racism played a role in the conviction, as he faced a completely Caucasian jury despite living in a community that is at least half African American. He goes on to state that this is part of a broader pattern in the American legal system, and that uniform juries tend to deliberate less than diverse juries drawn from a range of backgrounds. He continues that \"diverse juries are more likely to challenge one another, and less likely to fall back on what may be unconscious stereotypes.\"\n\nFord was sentenced to death by electrocution at Louisiana State Penitentiary in August 1988.\n\nIn 2000, the Louisiana supreme court ordered a hearing on Ford's claim that the prosecution suppressed evidence that might have showed Jake and Henry Robinson to be responsible for the murder (the two were initially implicated in the crime).\nIn 2013, an unidentified informant told prosecutors that Jake Robinson admitted to shooting and killing Rozeman. This led to Ford's legal team filing a motion to vacate his conviction and sentence in March 2014, stating that \"credible evidence...supporting a finding that Ford was neither present at, nor a participant in, the robbery and murder of Isadore Rozeman.\" State District Judge Ramona Emanuel overturned his conviction that same month.\n\nFord is one of at least 150 people on death row in the United States who were later exonerated and released.\n\nSoon after release from prison, Ford was diagnosed with terminal metastatic carcinoma of the lung. He entered home hospice care under the supervision of Johnathan Thompson (of \"Connick v. Thompson\" fame) and his organization Resurrection After Exoneration in New Orleans, LA.\nFord went missing on the night of April 22, 2015, after a precipitous change in mental state, possibly the result of his physical illness. Police initiated a search and he was found the next day, bloodied and without memory of the event.\n\nFord was eligible for a $313,000 settlement under Louisiana law, but a judge denied the petition for the funds, stating that he likely had some role in the initial crime as he had been in possession of stolen goods when arrested. Ford knew a robbery was going to take place and did not stop it, according to a 60 Minutes program that aired September 4, 2016. Further, he attempted to destroy evidence by pawning items taken in the robbery and tried to find buyers for the murder weapon used by men Ford implicated in the murder, according to Caddo Parrish District Judge Katherine Dorroh. http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2015/03/30/glenn-ford-restitution_n_6972158.html\n\nFord died under hospice care on June 29, 2015, from complications due to lung cancer.\n\nAfter learning of Ford's innocence, A.M. \"Marty\" Stroud III, prosecutor for the Caddo Parish District Attorney's office in the Ford case, regrets his role in the conviction. He has stated that he believes Ford had an unfair trial where key evidence was suppressed by both police and prosecutors and that Ford's lawyers did not have the financial resources nor the criminal law experience to mount a proper defense. He feels that if he had done his job properly at the time, and all the evidence had been properly collected, \"they would not have even been able to arrest Glenn Ford, let alone try him for the crime.\"\n"}
{"id": "32950306", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32950306", "title": "Crime in Oakland, California", "text": "Crime in Oakland, California\n\nCrime in Oakland began to rise during the late 1960s, and by the end of the 1970s Oakland's per capita murder rate had risen to twice that of San Francisco or New York City. In 1983, the National Journal referred to Oakland as the \"1983 crime capital\" of the San Francisco Bay Area. Crime continued to escalate during the 1980s and 1990s, and during the first decade of the 21st century Oakland has consistently been listed as one of the most dangerous large cities in the United States. However the homicide rate in Oakland has dropped substantially in the 21st century, compared to the late 1980s and early 1990s.\n\nAmong Oakland's 35 police patrol beats, violent crime remains a serious problem in specific East and West Oakland neighborhoods. In 2008, homicides were disproportionately concentrated: 72% occurred in three City Council districts, District 3 in West Oakland and Districts 6 and 7 in East Oakland, even though these districts represent only 44% of Oakland's residents.\n\nCrime remains one of Oakland's challenges, and Oakland continues to have a reputation among its own citizens, its understaffed police force, and residents of other Bay Area cities as a less safe place, with one of the top 20 highest rates of violent crime in the U.S. According to Oakland Police Chief Anthony Batts, during 2011 Oakland has averaged three street shootings per day, some of which cause injury or death to innocent bystanders. Batts also said “You don’t want a police state, but you want enough [police] to deal with the demand in the city.” \n\nThe number of police officers in Oakland has steadily declined during the past several years. \"But the men and women of the Oakland Police Department are still going out there and still stopping dangerous people, people with weapons, and trying to make a difference in the community,\" said Officer Jeff Thomason, a department spokesman.\n\nDespite these challenges, the homicide rate in Oakland has declined in recent years, thanks in part to new people moving into the city who are more willing to work with police than the previous residents.\n\nOakland ranks highly in California for most categories of crime. Violent crimes including assault, rape and murder, occur from two to five times the U.S. average. The 120 murders recorded in 2007 made Oakland's murder rate the third highest in California, behind Stockton and Compton. Historically, most murders have occurred in West Oakland and the flatlands of East Oakland between I-580 and I-880. Montclair, Rockridge and some areas in North Oakland have fewer problems with violent crime.\n\nProperty crime is widespread throughout the city. Oakland records one robbery per 91 residents and Carjackings occur two to three times more frequently in Oakland than in other cities of comparable size, and police have recorded at least one reported carjacking in every Oakland neighborhood.\n\nAfrican Americans comprise less than one-third of Oakland's residents, yet they are over-represented in crime statistics, and most homicides occur in African-American neighborhoods. Journalist Earl Ofari Hutchinson mentions crime in Oakland as an example of a rising problem of \"black-on-black\" crime, which Oakland shares with other major cities in the US. African American boys in Oakland also face significant educational challenges due to high crime rates in their communities: for the 10 years to 2013 \"787 black boys and men in Oakland were victims of homicide. During that same time, just 802 graduated prepared to attend either a California State University or University of California school.\"In 2010 the superintendent of Oakland schools set up an African-American male achievement initiative with one of its goals being to cut incarceration rates of black male students by half.\n\nIn 2013, of those arrested for homicide, 84.4% were black, 9.4% hispanic and 6.3% white. \n\nIn 2011, there was an increase in violent crime in general and homicides in particular. As during previous years, a large majority (100) of the 110 homicide victims, as well as a preponderance of known suspects, were black or Latino. The homicide drop in 2010 had been the city's fourth in a row, and violent crime in general had dropped 27%. Although the police department’s resources have been diminishing, according to Assistant Police Chief Howard Jordan the Oakland police department is committed to improved public safety by increasing police presence during peak crime hours, improving intelligence gathering, and moving more aggressively to arrest violent crime suspects.\n\nCrime against the city's taco truck vendors in the Fruitvale district came under scrutiny after the killing of a vendor's 5-year-old son in December 2011. Some truck vendors responded by hiring armed security guards, citing continual robberies and ineffective police response times.\n\nAs of November 2012, the city had experienced 115 killings that year, with 4 considered \"justifiable\", such as in self-defense or officer-related killings. This included the killing of seven people on April 2 at Oikos University, the largest mass killing in the city's history. 22 homicide victims were women, up from 10 the previous year. Killings related to arguments were at 18, compared to nine in 2011. 9 were domestic violence-related, compared to 7 in 2011. Retaliation killings were at 14, compared to 8 in 2011. Confirmed gang-related killings were at 10, with 15 gang-related killings in 2011.\n\n2016 is on track to have a below average year for homicides in Oakland with only 63 homicides currently recorded as of November 7th 2016. There is, however, a trend of non-lethal shootings occurring such as shooting in the arms or legs.\n\nIn 2013, Oakland implemented a gang violence reduction plan used previously in other cities, Operation Ceasefire, based on the research and strategies of author David M. Kennedy.\n\nThe Domain Awareness Center (DAC) is a joint project between the Port of Oakland and the city. Planning started in 2009 as part of a nationwide initiative to secure ports by connecting motion sensors and cameras in and around the shipping facilities. In 2013, the Oakland DAC integrated 130 cameras from the Port of Oakland and four city cameras. By including gunshot detection and license plate readers the DAC would allow police to faster investigate suspects (which does not exactly equal the alleged shift from \"reactive to proactive\" crime treatment).\n\nDespite its high crime rate, Oakland has fewer police officers than many other major cities. \"When Police Chief Anthony Batts took this job, we started out with 830 officers. We're down to about 666 officers. If this city is going to be a safe place for us to live and raise our family then we as a city have to determine what it's going to cost us to do that and how to get there,\" Oakland City Council President Larry Reid agreed with Batts that more police officers are needed but said that \"residents will have to open their wallets first.\"\n\nPartly due to an ongoing negative rapport between police officers and community members, evidence of which can be traced back to times preceding The Black Panther Party, and which reemerged in the wake of the Oakland Riders scandal in 2003, the shooting of Oscar Grant in 2009,(though it occurred in Oakland, it did not involve Oakland police, but rather a transit officer for BART) and the controversial handling of Occupy Oakland protesters in 2011. The homicide clearance rate has declined from 70% to approximately 40% in recent years, primarily due to a reduction in the number of investigators. \n\nA remarkably small percentage of current Oakland police officers live in the city itself, primarily due to the high cost of living.. \n\nIn Oakland, the number of police officers has been declining. Between 2003 and 2013, the number of police officers in Oakland declined by 91. The number of crimes that each officer has to deal with is double or triple those handled by officers in other major California cities. The number of homicide detectives decreased from 14 in 2010 to 9 in 2011. Detective caseload is more than any other major city in California, except Fresno. In 2008, the Police Department had the lowest homicide clearance rate among California’s large cities because the department is understaffed and the detective work in certain instances is not as thorough because there are simply not enough officers.\n\nIn 2004, the number of police officers per 10,000 residents was as follows:\n\n\nSince that year the number of police officers in Oakland has been cut by approx. 13% to 15.6 per 10,000 residents, resulting in Oakland being called \"the city with half a police department.\" Official estimates are that for a city with Oakland's level of crime approximately 1,100 officers are needed to adequately patrol the city; as of the beginning of 2013, Oakland employed only 616 officers.\n\nAs of 2010, the city of New Orleans, whose murder rate outpaces that of Oakland, had 48 officers for every 10,000 people.\n\n"}
{"id": "13435715", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13435715", "title": "Demographics of Bratislava", "text": "Demographics of Bratislava\n\nThis page gives an overview to the demographics of Bratislava.\n\nAccording to the 2001 census, the city had 428,672 inhabitants (the estimate for 2005 is 425,459). The average population density was 1,157 inhabitants/km² (2,997/mi²). The most populous district is Bratislava V with 121,259 inhabitants, followed by Bratislava II with 108,139, Bratislava IV with 93,058, Bratislava III with 61,418 and Bratislava I with 44,798. The largest ethnic groups in 2001 were Slovaks with 391,767 inhabitants (91.37% of the city population), followed by Hungarians with 16,541 (3.84%) and Czechs with 7,972 (1.86%). Other ethnic groups are Germans (1200, 0.28%), Moravians (635, 0.15%), Croats (614, 0.14%), Ruthenes (461, 0.11%), Ukrainians (452, 0.11%), Romani (417, 0.08%), and Poles (339, 0.08%).\n\nFrom the 13th century until the 19th century, German speakers were the dominant ethnic group. However, after the Compromise of 1867, the government encouraged Magyarization and, by the end of World War I, Bratislava was predominantly made up of German and Hungarian speakers, with Slovaks as the largest minority. While a minority, Jews from German and Hungarian-speaking areas contributed much to the intellectual culture of the city. Interpretation of census results is complicated, since before 1918, language was used as census criterion, and after 1918, self-identified ethnicity.\nIn addition, as Bratislava since 1918 has enlarged its territory several times, a more accurate assessment of early demographics might take into account the formerly independent communities (Dúbravka, Lamač, Rača, etc.), which were mostly Slovak. An alternative would be to compare only those districts which officially belonged to the city in the time of a given census. Moreover, residents of mixed origin tended to identify with the dominant political group, such as Hungarian before 1918, and Slovak after 1918; that is, what would be the most suitable or least dangerous identity. \nFor example, the proportion of ethnic Hungarians appeared to increase from 7.5% in 1850 to 40.53% in 1910. It is more likely that people of mixed backgrounds identified with the one in power. Similarly, the apparent population of Slovaks \"jumped\" from 14.42% in 1910 to 33% in 1919, but this may have reflected changing self-identification, rather than an exchange of peoples. Many people were bi- or trilingual and multicultural. Because of the pressure of Magyarisation, at one time Slovaks identified or presented themselves as ethnic Hungarians.\n\nAfter the formation of the Czechoslovak Republic in 1918, Bratislava remained a multiethnic city, but with a different demographic trend. After active Slovakization, the proportion of Slovaks and Czechs increased, while the proportion of Germans and Hungarians fell. With the shift in government, many of the largely Hungarian former government employees emigrated. Czechs and Slovaks immigrated to the city to take their places in jobs. In 1938, 59% of population were Slovaks or Czechs, while Germans represented 22% and Hungarians 13% of the city's population.\n\nThe creation of the first Slovak Republic in 1939 brought other changes, most notably the expulsion of many Czechs and Jews under Nazi influence, with the deportation of Jews continuing in the early 1940s, leading to most of the 15,000 from Bratislava being killed or dying from maltreatment in German concentration camps. In 1945, most of the ethnic Germans were evacuated. After the restoration of Czechoslovakia, the Beneš decrees collectively punished ethnic German and Hungarian minorities by expropriation and deportation to Germany, Austria, and Hungary for their alleged collaboration with Nazi Germany and Hungary against Czechoslovakia.\n\nThis was part of a postwar population transfer approved by the Allies, with the thought of reducing future tensions. Ethnic Germans were expelled from across eastern Europe. The stripping of Slovak citizenship from the Hungarian and German ethnics also forced the minorities to leave the city. Also, Hungary and Slovakia made population exchanges, which further decreased the number of the Hungarians in the city. The city utterly lost its multicultural character and much of its vitality. Since the 1950s, the Slovaks have been the dominant ethnicity in the town, making up around 90% of the city's population. By the mid 1970s, it had surpassed Brno as the second-largest city of Czechoslovakia, and reached one-third the size of Prague, the capital.\n\nAccording to a 2005 estimate, the average age in the city was 38.7 years, distributed as follows: 51,783 inhabitants of pre-productive age (0–14), 12.1%; 281,403 of productive age (15–59), 65.6%; and 92,273 of post-productive age (55+ for females, 60+ for males), 21.5%.\n\nThe 2001 census recorded 243,048 Roman Catholics (56.7%), 125,729 Atheists (29.3%), 24,810 Augsburg Confessional Lutherans (6%), 3,163 Greek Catholics (0.7%), 1,918 Reformed Christians, 1,827 Jehovah's Witnesses, 1,616 Eastern Orthodox, 737 Methodist Protestants, 748 Jews, and 613 Baptists.\n"}
{"id": "24810927", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24810927", "title": "Demographics of Western Norway", "text": "Demographics of Western Norway\n\nThe Western Norway region of Norway showed the highest population growth rate in Norway in 2010, at 1.44%. The fertility rate in this region is higher than in other parts of Norway. The population as of 1 January 2010 was 1,263,464, with 37.7% of the population living in Hordaland, 33.8% in Rogaland, 19.8% in Møre og Romsdal, and 8.4% in Sogn og Fjordane. 60% of the population is under 40 years old, and 30% is under 20 years old. Many of the historical immigrants in Western Norway came from countries like Scotland, England, Netherlands, Germany, Denmark and Sweden. Western Norway is the part of Norway which has the largest immigration from the western world.\n\nThe following demographic statistics are from the Statistics Norway, unless otherwise indicated.\n\n(2010 estimate) <br>\n\"0–14 years:\" 18.9% (male 470,253; female 447,472) <br>\n\"15–64 years:\" 66.2% (male 1,641,821; female 1,575,980) <br>\n\"65 years and over:\" 14.9% (male 314,678; female 407,995)\n\n(2010 estimate) <br>\n\"0–14 years:\" 19.9% (male 128,405; female 123,094) <br>\n\"15–64 years:\" 65.8% (male 429,302; female 401,410) <br>\n\"65 years and over:\" 14.3% (male 79,008; female 102,245)\n\n\nSlightly larger than East Timor and Swaziland, but slightly smaller than Hawaii and Estonia.\n\n1.44% (in 2010)\n\nSlightly larger than El Salvador and Iran, but slightly smaller than India.\n\n(2008) <br>\n\"total population:\" 80.4 years <br>\n\"male:\" 77.8 years <br>\n\"female:\" 83.0 years\n\nWestern Norway has a higher fertility rate than Iran, Iceland, France and the United States, and it is the highest in Norway.\n\n\"definition:\" age 15 and over can read and write <br>\n\"total population:\" 100% <br>\n\"male:\" NA% <br>\n\"female:\" NA%\n\nChristianity is the largest religion. 1,054,573 people are members of the Church of Norway. There is also 52,365 members in other Christian churches. Islam has 10,685 adherents in Western Norway, Buddhism has 2,082. 1,171 are of the Bahá'í Faith, Judaism, Sikhism and other religions.\n\nThere are more than thousand Protestant churches (in all municipalities), six Catholic churches (in Bergen, Stavanger, Haugesund, Ålesund, Molde and Kristiansund), two mosques (in Bergen and Stavanger), two Orthodox churches (in Bergen and Stavanger), and one Hindu temple (in Bergen).\n\nThe name \"Bible Belt\" has been applied historically to the Southern and Western parts of Norway. The region thus defined included most of Western Norway, especially Rogaland, Møre og Romsdal and some parts of Hordaland. Notably absent from this belt are bigger cities like Bergen and Stavanger where many people identify themselves as non-religious or with other religions. In these areas the conservative branch of the Church of Norway has a stronghold and the members usually associate themselves to Indremisjonen (Inner Mission). There are also numerous Pentecostals and members of the Free Churches, but these movements are also strongly represented in the rest of the country. The Bible Belt in Norway traditionally reflects the support for the Christian Democratic Party. However, especially since the first decade of the 21st century, conservative bible belt Christians unhappy with the more liberal development of the party have increasingly turned to the Progress Party.\n\nChristianity is the largest religious group. Although more and more ethnic Norwegians are less religious, Christian immigrants have increased the population. Many known Christian missionaries came from Western Norway, for example Torill Selsvold Nyborg, who is now the county mayor of Hordaland.\n\nProtestantism is the majority religion in Norway. Most Norwegians are Lutheran and members of the Church of Norway. Over 85% of the population is member here. Every municipalities have Protestant churches. Many municipalities, for example Austevoll, a small municipality with around 4,000 inhabitants, have over 13 church buildings. Most Norwegians are not active in the church. Nevertheless, there are many who participate to worship at Christmas Eve. People outside the cities are often more religious than the population in the cities, although there are many religious Christians immigrants in the cities.\n\nCatholicism increased its members in Western Norway due to immigration from Poland, the Philippines, Chile, and other Latin American and European countries. There are six Catholic churches (as of 2004), in Bergen (4,925 members), Stavanger (2,863 members), Haugesund (822 members), Ålesund (595 members), Molde (289) and Kristiansund (212). The largest church is St. Paul church in Bergen. The number of Catholics increased rapidly from 2005, because of immigration (mainly Polish). The capacity in the region is too small for all Catholics, and it is therefore planned to build several Catholic churches in the region, in addition to Orthodox churches.\nThere are only two Orthodox congregations in Western Norway, in Bergen and Stavanger. 368 people are members in Stavanger, but not all of them live in Rogaland. Congregations in some churches in Bergen have Orthodox worship in different languages. The numbers of Orthodox Christians in the region due to increased immigration from countries such as Russia and the rest of Eastern Europe.\n\n\nWhile as many as 7.2% of Oslo's population are Muslims, this figure is only 0.85% in Western Norway. There are two mosques, one in Bergen and Stavanger. In total, 10,685 people members of this religious community.\n\nBuddhism increased its number of adherents from 0 in 2004 to 2,082 in 2009.\n\nWestern Norway has a small Jewish coummunity. There has never been a synagogue in this part of the country, but before World War II, there was one congregation in Bergen and one in Kristiansund.\n"}
{"id": "322317", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=322317", "title": "Economic data", "text": "Economic data\n\nEconomic data or economic statistics are data (quantitative measures) describing an actual economy, past or present. These are typically found in time-series form, that is, covering more than one time period (say the monthly unemployment rate for the last five years) or in cross-sectional data in one time period (say for consumption and income levels for sample households). Data may also be collected from surveys of for example individuals and firms or aggregated to sectors and industries of a single economy or for the international economy. A collection of such data in table form comprises a data set.\n\nMethodological economic and statistical elements of the subject include measurement, collection, analysis, and publication of data. 'Economic statistics' may also refer to a subtopic of official statistics produced by official organizations (e.g. statistical institutes, intergovernmental organizations such as United Nations, European Union or OECD, central banks, ministries, etc.). Economic data provide an empirical basis for economic research, whether descriptive or econometric. Data archives are also a key input for assessing the replicability of empirical findings and for use in decision making as to economic policy.\n\nAt the level of an economy, many data are organized and compiled according to the methodology of national accounting. Such data include Gross National Product and its components, Gross National Expenditure, Gross National Income in the National Income and Product Accounts, and also the capital stock and national wealth. In these examples data may be stated in nominal or real values, that is, in money or inflation-adjusted terms. Other economic indicators include a variety of alternative measures of output, orders, trade, the labor force, confidence, prices, and financial series (\"e.g.,\" money and interest rates). At the international level there are many series including international trade, international financial flows, direct investment flows (between countries) and exchange rates. \n\nFor time-series data, reported measurements can be hourly (e.g. for stock markets), daily, monthly, quarterly, or annually. Estimates such as averages are often subjected to seasonal adjustment to remove weekly or seasonal-periodicity elements, for example, holiday-period sales and seasonal unemployment.\n\nWithin a country the data are usually produced by one or more statistical organizations, \"e.g.,\" a governmental or quasi-governmental organization and/or the central banks. International statistics are produced by several international bodies and firms, including the International Monetary Fund and the Bank for International Settlements.\n\nStudies in experimental economics may also generate data, rather than using data collected for other purposes. Designed randomized experiments may provide more reliable conclusions than do observational studies. Like epidemiology, economics often studies the behavior of humans over periods too long to allow completely controlled experiments, in which case economists can use observational studies or quasi-experiments; in these studies, economists collect data which are then analyzed with statistical methods (econometrics).\n\nMany methods can be used to analyse the data. These include, \"e.g.,\" time-series analysis using multiple regression, Box–Jenkins analysis, and seasonality analysis. Analysis may be univariate (modeling one series) or multivariate (from several series). Econometricians, economic statisticians, and financial analysts formulate models, whether for past relationships or for economic forecasting. These models may include partial equilibrium microeconomics aimed at examining particular parts of an economy or economies, or they may cover a whole economic system, as in general equilibrium theory or in macroeconomics. Economists use these models to understand past events and to forecast future events, \"e.g.,\" demand, prices and employment. Methods have also been developed for analyzing or correcting results from use of incomplete data and errors in variables.\n\nGood economic data are a precondition to effective macroeconomic management. With the complexity of modern economies and the lags inherent in macroeconomic policy instruments, a country must have the capacity to promptly identify any adverse trends in its economy and to apply the appropriate corrective measure. This cannot be done without economic data that is complete, accurate and timely.\n\nIncreasingly, the availability of good economic data is coming to be seen by international markets as an indicator of a country that is a promising destination for foreign investment. International investors are aware that good economic data is necessary for a country to effectively manage its affairs and, other things being equal, will tend to avoid countries that do not publish such data.\n\nThe public availability of reliable and up-to-date economic data also reassures international investors by allowing them to monitor economic developments and to manage their investment risk. The severity of the Mexican and Asian financial crises was made worse by the realization by investors that the authorities had hidden a deteriorating economic situation by slow and incomplete reporting of critical economic data. Being unsure of exactly how bad the economic situation was, they tried to withdraw their assets quickly and in the process caused further damage to the economies in question. It was the realization that data issues lay behind much of the damage done by these international financial crises that led to the creation of international data quality standards, such as the International Monetary Fund (IMF) General Data Dissemination System (GDDS).\n\nInside a country, the public availability of good quality economic data allows firms and individuals to make their business decisions with confidence that they understand the overall macroeconomic environment. As with international investors, local business people are less likely to overreact to a piece of bad news if they understand the economic context.\n\nTax data can be a source of economic data. In the United States, the IRS provides tax statistics, but the data are limited by statutory limitations and confidentiality concerns.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3210879", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3210879", "title": "Fritz Klein (sex researcher)", "text": "Fritz Klein (sex researcher)\n\nFred \"Fritz\" Klein (December 27, 1932May 24, 2006) was an Austrian-born American psychiatrist and sex researcher who studied bisexuals and their relationships. He was an author and editor, as well as the developer of the Klein Sexual Orientation Grid, a scale that measures an individual's sexual orientation. Klein believed that sexual orientation changed over the course of a lifetime and that researches underestimated the number of men that had sexual interactions with both sexes. Fritz Klein founded the American Institute of Bisexuality in 1998 which is continuing his work by sponsoring bi-inclusive sex research, educating the general public on sexuality, and promoting bi culture and bi community.\n\nKlein was born in Vienna, Austria, to Orthodox Jewish parents. He and his family fled to New York when he was a child, to escape antisemitism.\n\nHe received a BA from Yeshiva University in 1953, and an MBA from Columbia University in 1955. He studied medicine at University of Bern in Switzerland for six years, receiving his MD in 1961. He practiced as a psychiatrist in New York City in the 1970s.\n\nSelf-identified as bisexual, Klein was surprised at the lack of literature on his sexuality in the New York Public Library in 1974. That year he founded the Bisexual Forum, the first support group for the bisexual community.\n\nHe devised the Klein Sexual Orientation Grid, a multi-dimensional system for describing complex sexual orientation, similar to the \"zero-to-six\" scale Kinsey scale used by Alfred Kinsey, but measuring seven different vectors of sexual orientation and identity (sexual attractions, sexual behavior, sexual fantasies, emotional preference, social preference, lifestyle and self-identification) separately, as they relate person's past, present and ideal future.\n\nKlein published \"The Bisexual Option: A Concept of One Hundred Percent Intimacy\" in 1978, based on his research, the world's first real psychological study of bisexuality. He also co-authored \"The Male, His Body, His Sex\" in 1978. Klein moved to San Diego in 1982. He published \"Bisexualities: Theory and Research\" in 1986. In 1998 he founded the American Institute of Bisexuality (AIB), also known as the Bisexual Foundation, to encourage, support and assist research and education about bisexuality. Klein also founded the \"Journal of Bisexuality\". He remained the Journal's principal editor until his death. He published \"Bisexual and Gay Husbands: Their Stories, Their Words\" in 2001. Klein published a novel, \"Life, Sex and the Pursuit of Happiness\" in 2005.\n\nIn 2006 Klein was diagnosed with cancer, and underwent surgery as a result. Although expected to die from cancer in a matter of months, Fritz Klein instead died at home in San Diego, California, from cardiac arrest aged 73. He was survived by two brothers and his life partner, Tom Reise. Klein donated his body to science.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5459710", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5459710", "title": "George Alan Rekers", "text": "George Alan Rekers\n\nGeorge Alan Rekers (born July 11, 1948) is an American psychologist and ordained Southern Baptist minister. He is emeritus professor of Neuropsychiatry and Behavioral Science at the University of South Carolina School of Medicine. Rekers has a Ph.D from University of California, Los Angeles and has been a research fellow at Harvard University, a professor and psychologist for UCLA and the University of Florida, and department head at Kansas State University.\n\nIn 1983 Rekers was on the founding board of the Family Research Council, a non-profit Christian lobbying organization, and he is a former officer and scientific advisor of the National Association for Research & Therapy of Homosexuality (NARTH), an organization offering conversion therapy intended to convert homosexuals to heterosexuality. Rekers has testified in court that homosexuality is destructive, and against parenthood by gay and lesbian people in a number of court cases involving organizations and state agencies working with children.\n\nIn May 2010 Rekers employed a male prostitute as a travel companion for a two-week vacation in Europe. Rekers denied any inappropriate conduct and suggestions that he was gay. The male escort told CNN he had given Rekers \"sexual massages\" while traveling together in Europe. Rekers subsequently resigned from the board of NARTH.\n\nRekers is married with children.\n\nRekers received his B.A. in psychology from Westmont College in 1969. He later received his M.A. and Ph.D. in psychology from University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA) in 1971 and 1972, respectively. As part of his doctoral studies at UCLA, Rekers led an experimental study which used behavioral treatment to discourage \"deviant sex-role behaviors in a male child\". The study's published results stated that the \"treatment intervention produced a profound change\" in the subject, a boy treated from the age of 4 years 11 months. In 2011, Anderson Cooper 360° featured a story about the fate of Kirk Murphy, a child Rekers states that he cured in many of his books. Murphy's siblings and mother state that the therapy ultimately had lasting damage to the boy and led to him growing up to be a man who grappled constantly with his homosexuality before committing suicide in 2003 at the age of 38.\n\nRekers also holds an MBA in executive management from Southern Wesleyan University and Th.D. from the University of South Africa.\n\nFrom 1972 to 1973, Rekers worked as a research fellow and visiting scholar for the Center for Behavioral Sciences at Harvard University. After completing his Ph.D., Rekers was an assistant research psychologist and adjunct assistant professor of psychology at UCLA from 1974 to 1977. Rekers joined the University of Florida College of Medicine in 1977 and became the chief psychologist at the Division of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry as well as an associate professor of psychiatry, clinical psychology, and pediatrics. In 1980, Rekers became head and a tenured professor at the Department of Family and Child Development at Kansas State University; he left in 1985.\n\nRekers has published numerous journal articles on gender roles among children, with articles on \"cross-gender identified boys\" and \"child gender disturbances\". His work has been criticized by other scholars for reinforcing sex-role stereotypes and for reliance on dubious rationales for therapeutic intervention (e.g. parents' worries that their children might become homosexuals).\n\nRekers refers in his academic work to \"the positive therapeutic effects of religious conversion for curing transsexualism\" and \"the positive therapeutic effect of a church ministry to repentant homosexuals.\" Judith Butler describes this work as \"intensely polemical\", giving \"highly conservative political reasons for strengthening the diagnosis [of \"gender identity disorder\"] so that the structures that support normalcy can be strengthened.\"\n\nRekers credits himself for developing a method of assessing gender behavior in children's play in 1972.\n\nRekers' views on family life were the focus of a major controversy in Florida in 2002 when then-governor Jeb Bush appointed Jerry Regier to the post of head of the Florida Department of Children and Families with responsibility for child welfare. Shortly after the announcement of Regier's appointment, it was disclosed that in 1989 the California-based Coalition on Revival had published a fundamentalist tract titled \"The Christian World View of the Family\" under the names of Regier and Rekers, which condemned working mothers as being in \"bondage\" and argued that the government should have no right to place children in protective custody except in cases of extreme abuse or neglect. The tract's authors also \"affirm that Biblical spanking may cause temporary and superficial bruises or welts that do not constitute child abuse\" and \"deny that the Bible countenances any other definition of the family, such as the sharing of a household by homosexual partners, and that society's laws should be modified in any way to broaden the definition of family.\" The tract was condemned by Democrats; Bush told the media that Regier \"doesn't share those extreme views.\" Regier survived the controversy and served as DCF head from 2002 to the end of Jeb Bush's term in 2007.\n\nRekers is a practicing Southern Baptist, and credits the work of C.S. Lewis, particularly his writings on gender relations, with influencing his religious and social views.\n\nRekers has attracted attention for his views on homosexuality, which have been promoted in a number of forums and court cases. He asserts that homosexuality is a \"gender disturbance\" that can be corrected through 18 to 22 months of weekly therapy during childhood and adolescence. Mark Pietrzyk, of the gay group the Log Cabin Republicans, has stated that Rekers' method uses aversion therapy – a practice opposed by the American Psychiatric Association (APA) – that punishes \"nonconforming\" behavior such as swaggering in girls or limp wrists in boys and rewards \"conforming\" behavior such as girls playing with dolls and boys playing basketball.\n\nA number of authorities working in the relevant fields reject Reker's basic premise utterly; a publication from the APA states \"The idea that homosexuality is a mental disorder or that the emergence of same-sex attraction and orientation among some adolescents is in any way abnormal or mentally unhealthy has no support among any mainstream health and mental health professional organizations.\" (Printing and distribution of that publication was with the support of the American Counseling Association, the Interfaith Alliance, and the National Education Association.)\nAccording to Rekers himself, he spends much of his time with boys whose peers regard them as \"sissy\" and \"effeminate\" with the goal of reversing those traits and \"help[ing] these children to become better adapted to themselves and to their environment.\" The APA's opposition to his methods led to him resigning from the organization.\n\nRekers has appeared in court in several cases as an expert witness testifying on matters concerning homosexuality. His testimony has been strongly criticized by a number of parties including trial judges; the American Civil Liberties Union has asserted that his personal beliefs regarding homosexuality interfere with his ability to give an unbiased professional opinion on lesbian, gay, bisexual and transsexual (LGBT) topics, including gay adoption. Legal experts have discussed whether his involvement with a male prostitute in 2010 could render his testimony unreliable, possibly affecting the outcome of pending cases in Florida and California.\n\nRekers testified before the Washington, D.C. Human Rights Commission on behalf of the Boy Scouts of America in 1998 in defense of the group's policy on excluding homosexuals, arguing that it was justified because admission of homosexuals \"would legitimize the value of homosexual behavior in the eyes of many of the Boy Scouts ... There would be more homosexual conduct or behavior by the boys in such troops.\" He has acknowledged that his views are heavily influenced by religious concerns; as a member of the Southern Baptists, he believes that the city of Sodom was destroyed by God as a punishment for allowing homosexuality and that active homosexuals face \"eternal separation from God\", i.e., perpetuity in hell.\n\nRekers was an expert witness in a 2004 case involving gay adoption in Arkansas, which had banned LGBT people from adopting in 1999. He argued that \"it would be in the best interest of foster children to be placed in a heterosexual home\" because the majority of people in the country disapproved of homosexual behaviour, putting further stress on children who were already likely to suffer from psychological disorders. According to Rekers, \"That disapproval filters down to children [who] will express disapproval in more cruel, insensitive ways\" toward a child being parented by a gay person. In cross-examination, Rekers acknowledged that he believed that homosexuality is sinful and that the Bible is the infallible word of God. His testimony was rebutted by Dr. Michael Lamb, a psychiatrist, who stated that there was no scientific evidence for the assertion that homosexuals were worse parents than heterosexuals.\n\nThe trial judge, Pulaski County Circuit Court judge Timothy Fox, ruled against the state of Arkansas in December 2004. He was strongly critical of Rekers' testimony, describing it as \"extremely suspect\" and said that Rekers \"was there primarily to promote his own personal ideology.\" Rekers responded by denouncing the trial as \"utterly corrupt.\"\n\nFollowing the case, Rekers billed the Arkansas Department of Health and Human Services a sum of $165,000 for his testimony, an amount that far exceeded what the state had anticipated. He later increased the bill to $200,000 with the addition of late fees and other charges for preparing paperwork. The unpaid bill led to two years of legal wrangling that was finally settled out of court with a $60,000 payment.\n\nIn 2008, Rekers was an expert witness in \"\", a case defending Florida's gay adoption ban. He presented testimony asserting that homosexuals are more likely to suffer from depression, substance abuse, and emotional problems. Citing what he called \"God's moral laws,\" he asserted that individual homosexuals are \"manipulated by leaders of the homosexual revolt\" to the detriment of those suffering this \"sexual perversion.\" He also asserted that Native Americans would make unsuitable foster parents, asserting that they suffered from a high risk of alcohol abuse and psychiatric disorders.\n\nMiami-Dade Circuit Court Judge Cindy Lederman ruled against the state. In her decision, she said \"Dr. Rekers' testimony was far from a neutral and unbiased recitation of the relevant scientific evidence. Dr. Rekers' beliefs are motivated by his strong ideological and theological convictions that are not consistent with the science. Based on his testimony and demeanor at trial, the court cannot consider his testimony to be credible nor worthy of forming the basis of public policy.\" It later emerged that Rekers had been paid nearly $120,000 for his testimony on behalf of the state, which had been solicited specifically by Florida Attorney General Bill McCollum. The attorney general wrote in 2007: \"Our attorneys handling this case have searched long and hard for other expert witnesses with comparable expertise to Dr. Rekers and have been unable to identify any who would be available for this case.\" However, his choice of witness was criticized by Nadine Smith of the gay-rights organization Equality Florida: \"Rekers is part of a small cadre of bogus pseudo scientists that charge these exorbitant fees to peddle information they know has been discredited time and time again. And people like McCollum will pay top dollar for it. There's a reason why he can't find credible sources. Because credible people don't believe this ban should exist.\"\n\nThird District Court of Appeal State of Florida, stated in the decision: \"Dr. Cochran (Professor of Epidemiology and Statistics at the University of California in Los Angeles) also testified about errors in scientific methodology and reporting in Dr. Rekers' study, stating that Dr. Rekers had failed to present an objective review of the evidence on those subjects. Cochran concluded that Dr. Rekers' work did not meet established standards in the field. Another expert, Dr. Peplau (Professor of Psychology at the University of California in Los Angeles), testified that Dr. Rekers had omitted in his review of the scientific literature “other published, widely cited studies on the stability of actual relationships over time.”\n\nIn 1983 Rekers was on the founding board of the Family Research Council, a non-profit Christian lobbying organization, along with James Dobson and Armand Nicholi Jr, but the organization reported in 2010 he has not been associated with them for more than a decade.\n\nUntil May 11, 2010, Rekers was listed as an advisor and officer with the National Association for Research & Therapy of Homosexuality; , these listings have been removed from the NARTH website. NARTH is an association which promotes the acceptance of conversion therapy intended to change homosexuals into heterosexuals, contrary to the advice of mainstream professional associations such as the American Psychiatric Association and American Psychological Association. On May 11, 2010, NARTH announced that Rekers had resigned from its board.\n\nFactsAboutYouth.com is a website designed to give educators information for teaching youth about sexual orientation. Rekers is listed by name as being a director in the development of the resource through a subcommittee of the American College of Pediatricians (not to be confused with the American Academy of Pediatrics). The National Association for Research & Therapy of Homosexuality, an organization for which Rekers was an officer, is also listed as managing the website. A contributor for the organization Truth Wins Out characterized this website as a \"phony medical group attempting to peddle anti-gay propaganda to schools.\"\n\nRekers operated web sites including TeenSexToday.com (\"my blog on teen sex\") and an evangelical team ministry called InterAct International Inc.\n\nThe \"Miami New Times\" reported on May 4, 2010, that three weeks previously, Rekers had been photographed at Miami International Airport with a twenty-year-old \"rent boy\" who was using the pseudonym \"Lucien\" (later identified as Jo-Vanni Roman). Roman was available for hire through the Rentboy.com website. Rekers acknowledged hiring Roman for the 10-day European vacation as a \"travel assistant\" and denies any impropriety. He said that Roman was there to help carry his luggage since he had surgery recently and was unable to carry it himself, although the photograph clearly showed Rekers lifting his own luggage. Rekers was quoted as commenting, \"If you talk with my travel assistant ... you will find I spent a great deal of time sharing scientific information on the desirability of abandoning homosexual intercourse, and I shared the Gospel of Jesus Christ with him in great detail.\" The incident was covered by media outlets and TV shows worldwide.\n\nIn subsequent interviews, Roman said Rekers had paid him to provide nude massages daily: \"'Jo-vanni' in news reports, has told various media outlets that he gave Rekers daily massages in the nude during the trip, which included genital touching.\" He also talked about how he believed that Rekers was, in fact, homosexual: \"It's a situation,\" Roman said, \"where he's going against homosexuality when he is a homosexual.\" According to the \"New Times\", Roman \"made it clear they met through Rentboy.com\", and denied that he had been hired to carry luggage; \"The Times\" reported that Rekers \"hired a companion from a website called Rentboy.com that offers clients a wide range of choices, from 'rentboy' and 'sugar daddy' to 'masseur'.\" On the May 6, 2010 episode of \"The Daily Show\", Jon Stewart pointed out that Roman is looking on in the photograph, while Rekers is seen handling his own luggage.\n\nOn May 7, the National Association for Research & Therapy of Homosexuality announced that they took the accusations against Rekers seriously, would be carrying out an inquiry into these events, and expressed sympathy to the individuals and families involved. , NARTH seems to have removed this statement from the NARTH website. Following the first report about Rekers, on May 8, 2010, \"New York\" magazine reported that another individual said that Rekers had hired him in a similar capacity in 1992. On May 11, 2010, NARTH announced that Rekers had resigned from its board.\n\nOn May 12, \"Christianity Today\" reported that Rekers stated on his personal website that he had interviewed several people for the role of travel assistant, and was not aware of his assistant's internet advertisements. He e-mailed them saying \"I confessed to the Lord and to my family that I was unwise and wrong to hire this travel assistant after knowing him only one month before the trip\", saying he was unaware that his \"travel assistant\" was \"more than a person raised in a Christian home\". Rekers explained his regrets for the harm caused by his \"unwise decision\", and that he was being advised by \"an experienced pastor and counselor from my church, so I can more fully understand my weaknesses and prevent this kind of unwise decision-making in the future\". On his resignation from NARTH he said \"I am not gay and never have been.\" The scandal became popular fodder for media commentators and comics. Frank Rich of the \"New York Times\" wrote: \"Thanks to Rekers's clownish public exposure, we now know that his professional judgments are windows into his cracked psyche, not gay people's. But...his excursions into public policy have had real and damaging consequences on a large swath of Americans.\"\n\n\"Newsweek's\" June 7, 2010 issue's Back Story listed Rekers, among others, as a prominent conservative activist who has a record of supporting anti-gay legislation and was later caught in a gay sex scandal.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13695734", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13695734", "title": "Green Flag Award", "text": "Green Flag Award\n\nThe Green Flag Award is the benchmark national standard for publicly accessible parks and green spaces in the United Kingdom. The scheme was set up in 1996 to recognise and reward green spaces in England and Wales that met the laid down high standards. \n\nIt is also seen as a way of encouraging others to achieve the same high environmental standards, creating a benchmark of excellence in recreational green areas. Any free to enter public park or green space is eligible to apply for an Award. Privately owned but publicly accessible parks have received awards such as Chavasse Park (Liverpool One) and Rutland Water (Anglian Water services Ltd). \n\nThe scheme is owned by the government through the Department for Communities and Local Government, though it is managed by other agents under contract. A pilot scheme was started in 2007, in Scotland, and three parks were given awards that year. Both primary and secondary schools may be awarded the Green Flag in recognition of steps taken towards making the school increasingly eco-friendly. \n\nMeanwhile, the award goes to other countries too for example to Germany (Erholungspark Marzahn and others).\n\nParks and green spaces are judged in April and May each year and the winners are announced in July. Parks must apply each year to keep their Green Flag Award, and winning sites are eligible to fly a Green Flag in the park for a year. Sites for a Green Flag Award are judged against eight key criteria:\n\n\nThe Green Flag Award itself is for public-run open spaces, but the same scheme runs an award for community/charity-run public spaces, such as Millennium Greens and Doorstep Greens called the Green Pennant Award. This scheme, started in 2002, has adapted the criteria for voluntary organisations. \n\nSites for a Green Pennant Award are judged against eight key criteria:\n\n\nGreen Flag Award winning sites, which are over thirty years old, may also apply for Green Heritage Site Accreditation.\n\nGreen Flag is one of the steering group partners of Neighbourhoods Green, a partnership initiative which works with social landlords and housing associations to highlight the importance of, and raise the overall quality of design and management for, open and green space in social housing. Between 2012 and 2017 both parties will be working to expand Green Flag Award into the social housing sector.\n\nThe scheme was originally run by volunteers from its founding in the 1990s. It was then sponsored by the government and run by the Civic Trust, till the latter went into administration in 2009. Since then, it has been managed by a consortium of Keep Britain Tidy, the British Trust for Conservation Volunteers, and the charity Greenspace. Judges continue to be unpaid volunteers with experience and competence in the management of parks.\n\n"}
{"id": "57192289", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57192289", "title": "Hans Toch", "text": "Hans Toch\n\nHans Herbert Toch (born April 17, 1930 in Vienna, Austria) is an American social psychologist and criminologist. He is Distinguished Professor Emeritus in the School of Criminal Justice at the University at Albany, SUNY. He is a fellow of the American Psychological Association and the American Society of Criminology, and served as president of the American Association for Forensic Psychology in 1996. He was the co-recipient of the 2001 August Vollmer Award from the American Society of Criminology, and received the 2005 \"Prix DeGreff\" Award from the International Society of Criminology.\n\n"}
{"id": "9701626", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9701626", "title": "Harvard–Radcliffe Women's Leadership Project", "text": "Harvard–Radcliffe Women's Leadership Project\n\nThe Harvard–Radcliffe Women's Leadership Project organizes a six-day conference each year for leadership training for undergraduate women.\n\n"}
{"id": "10356563", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10356563", "title": "Herman K. Beebe", "text": "Herman K. Beebe\n\nHerman K. Beebe was a Louisiana financier who was convicted of fraud in 1988 during the savings and loan crisis.\n"}
{"id": "3730275", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3730275", "title": "How the World Was One", "text": "How the World Was One\n\nHow the World Was One: Beyond the Global Village is Arthur C. Clarke's history and survey of the communications revolution, published in 1992. The title includes an intentional pun; in English \"How the World Was Won\" would sound exactly the same. This work is based on an earlier work by Clarke entitled \"Voice Across the Sea\", published in 1958.\n"}
{"id": "20431238", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20431238", "title": "IAP statement on population growth", "text": "IAP statement on population growth\n\nThe InterAcademy Panel Statement on Population Growth is an international scientist consensus document discussing and demanding a halt of the population expansion. This was the first worldwide joint statement of academies of sciences, and their cooperative InterAcademy Panel on International Issues. It was signed by 58 member academies and began as follows.\nLet 1994 be remembered as the year when the people of the world decided to act together for the benefit of future generations.\n\nBetween October 24 and October 27, 1993, an international \"scientist's top summit\" was held in New Delhi, India, with representatives from academies of sciences from all over the world. This grew out of two previous meetings, one joint meeting by the British Royal Society and the United States National Academy of Sciences, and one international meeting organised by the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences. The scientists discussed the environmental and social welfare problems for the world population, and found them closely linked to the population expansion.\n\nIn the year 1950, were approximately 2.5 billion (2,500 million) humans alive in this world. By 1960, the number had reached 3 billion, and by 1975 was at 4 billion. The 5 billion mark was reached around 1987, and in 1993, at the New Delhi meeting, academics estimated the population to be 5.5 billion. For some time, world food production had been able to roughly match population growth, meaning that starvation was a regional and distributional problem, rather than one based on a total shortage of food. The scientists noted that increased food production on land and on sea in the previous decade was less than the population increase over the same period. Moreover, by increased food production and otherwise, the population growth was contributing to a loss of biodiversity, deforestation and loss of topsoil, and shortages of water and fuel. The academics noted that the complex relationships between population size and various environmental effects were not fully understood, but that \"there is no doubt that the threat to the ecosystem is linked to population size and resource use\". They were aware of the problems with increasing greenhouse emissions and other environmental threats, and found these linked to the population growth.\n\nThe scientists decided to adopt a resolution on the problems and on the means to solve them, and that this resolution should be put to vote by the respective national academies of science. In 1993, they also established the InterAcademy Panel, in order to coordinate this and future similar consensus resolutions on important global warming\n\nThe academies note that \"the world is undergoing an unprecedented population expansion\", and that it is necessary to stop it. In fact, we must reach \"zero population growth within the lifetime of our children\", if we are to achieve the \"common goal\", which was defined as \"the improvement of the quality of life for all, both now and succeeding generations\", including \"social, economic and personal well-being while preserving fundamental human rights and the ability to live harmoniously in a protected environment\".\n\nMoreover, these goals are achievable, but in order to achieve them it is not sufficient to halt the population expansion. At the same time, a number of actions need to be taken, in order to improve health and welfare, and lessen the negative human impact on the environment. Finally, more research in these areas is needed.\n\nThe proposed actions are codified in 21 points. Those directly dealing with halting the population growth include furthering equal opportunities for women, easy access to cheap and safe contraceptives, family planning programmes, broad primary health care and education, and increased research on cultural, religious, and other factors, which \"affect reproductive behavior\". In accordance with the respect for fundamental human rights, the measures do not include any kind of coercion, but enabling and encouragement for choosing to limit the number of children in a family.\n\nOther points include governmental policies recognizing longer-term environmental responsibilities; assistance from the industrialised to the developing world for environmental problems; pricing and taxing that take environmental cost into account, and thus influence consumer behaviour, and transitions to less energy consumptive economies.\n\n"}
{"id": "7844491", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7844491", "title": "Iranian sex tape scandal", "text": "Iranian sex tape scandal\n\nThe so-called Iranian sex tape scandal involves the public outcry and judicial proceedings against Zahra Amir Ebrahimi, an actress who appeared in the soap opera \"Nargess\", and an associate producer, accused of appearing together in an explicit sex tape, allegedly filmed for private consumption with a camcorder, a serious crime under Iranian law. The actress denies that the tape is of her, while the film producer reportedly has claimed that it is him. The scandal virtually ended the actress's career; she was banned from Iranian films in 2006.\n\nThe case served as a catalyst to prompt the lower house of the Parliament of Iran to pass a bill making the production of sexually explicit media, even for private consumption, an offense punishable by death.\n\nThe tape graphically depicts twenty minutes of sex between a woman and a man in a small room with a narrow bed. The man who admitted to his role in the tape is an assistant film producer who was engaged to an Iranian soap opera actress at the time, whom he claimed is the woman in the tape. Neither of the suspects were named by the Islamic Republic News Agency, the state-run news agency in Tehran. The man was referred to in the Iranian media as \"Mr. X\". The actress denied that the woman in the film is her, and accused her ex-fiancé of releasing a pornographic film featuring himself and a lookalike to damage her career.\n\nThe tape was reportedly made in 2004, although it only came to prominence in early 2006. It has seen wide distribution on DVD and over the internet in Iran. An estimated 100,000 copies are in circulation, grossing $4 million, a record in the history of the Iranian film industry. The assistant film producer appearing in the tape has said that he accidentally forgot to delete the footage from his hard drive when he sold his laptop.\n\nThe tape and the publicity surrounding it caused a massive scandal in Iran, such that Iran's fundamentalist clerics have labeled it a \"national shame\". Tehran's hardline chief prosecutor Saeed Mortazavi has even intervened, ordering a special investigation. Iranian politician Ghorbanali Dorri-Najafabadi also became involved, demanding Ebrahimi (but not Mr. X) be stoned to death. Ebrahimi was interrogated at length by the Iranian authorities, but was never charged with any crime. While \"Narges\" was on hiatus while the scandal broke, producers of two films in which Ebrahimi starred were advised by Iranian authorities not to release the films while the investigation was ongoing. As of 2010, these films still had not been released. One of them, \"Journey to Hidalou\" was reviewed for compliance with Islamic law by Javad Shamaqdari, Iran's deputy culture minister for film. He said that the film was a good one, but could not be released with Ebrahimi in it, and suggested that her scenes be re-shot with a different actress. The film's director, Mojataba Raei, has reportedly refused to re-shoot Ebrahimi's scenes. Shamaqdari suggested it would take a religious fatwa to approve Ebrahimi's films for release.\n\nFor a time Ebrahimi was rumored to have attempted suicide because of all the negative media attention after her police interrogation. The worry that something may have happened to her grew worse when she was forbidden from speaking in public by the Iranian authorities. To quell the rumor, she ultimately made a statement to the ILNA news agency: \"I just want to tell my country’s people that I am alive. I should think of Iranian women’s strength and defend the respect of the girls and women of my nation.\" Even months and years after the scandal first broke, the case became a cultural touchstone in Iran, much in the same way the O. J. Simpson murder case had been in the United States, acting as a lightning rod for people to talk about changing attitudes toward sexuality and state authority in private life. While the response of the conservative government was one of outrage, many Iranians viewed the scandal coolly, and were reluctant to place blame on the woman in the tape.\n\nEbrahimi flatly denies that she is the woman in the tape. In an interview with the Guardian UK, she said, \"I watched the film after I heard about the fuss from colleagues and the girl in it is not me. I admit there are some similarities to the character I played in \"Narges\". It is possible to use studio make-up to have a person look like me. I have some knowledge of montage techniques and I know you can create a new face by distorting the features of another person.\"\n\nIn December 2006, eight people were arrested as part of the official investigation. The man in the tape, \"Mr. X\", who was believed to have been the one to disseminate it to the public, albeit accidentally, initially fled the country, taking up residence in Armenia. After Iranian investigators requested he be arrested, the man was apprehended and extradited shortly afterwards. He was reported to have claimed that he and the woman in the film were temporarily married at the time. Under the precepts of Shi'a Islam, sex during temporary marriage is permitted. Nevertheless, \"Mr. X\" was tried and imprisoned. The legal fate of the others arrested in this investigation, whether they were eventually exonerated or not, went unreported in the news media.\n\nWhile Ebrahimi was banned from appearing in films or on television, no formal charges were ever filed against her. An Iranian judiciary official was quoted as saying: \"It depends on finding out whether she had a deliberate role in the case ... If so, it is going to be dealt with as a case of corruption and prostitution.\" Some legal experts believed Ebrahimi’s denial would have been enough to avoid a guilty verdict had she been tried. Under Iranian law, film and video footage must be supported by additional evidence or a confession. Ebrahimi has stated that she fears her career in the Iranian entertainment industry may be over. If the actress (or another woman) were to have been charged and convicted, the punishment could have been severe. A woman found guilty of having sex outside marriage can face a penalty of up to 99 lashes with a leather strap. \n\nWhile the west in the 21st century has been fairly inundated with such news, this was widely acknowledged by western news sources to have been the first celebrity sex tape scandal in Iran. Inside Iran, however, people claim that there have been others before this, but that this is the first one that was publicly acknowledged, and the first time the legal authorities decided to do something about it.\n\nIn June 2007, the Parliament of Iran voted overwhelmingly in support of a bill that could make the production of and participation in pornographic media an offense punishable by death. To become law, the bill still required the approval of Iran's Guardian Council. In 2009, news outlets began reporting the arrest of suspects under this law, so presumably it has been approved. The bill's drafting is widely believed to be a direct response to this sex tape scandal.\n\n"}
{"id": "18784705", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18784705", "title": "Irano-Afghan race", "text": "Irano-Afghan race\n\nThe Irano-Afghan race (also known as the Iranid race) is an obsolete term for a physical type most common among populations native to the Iranian plateau. The Irano-Afghan type was classified as belonging to the greater Caucasian race. It was variously associated with either the Nordic subtype or the Mediterranean subtype, depending on the authority consulted.\n\nCarleton S. Coon in his \"The Races of Europe\" classifies the \"Indo-Afghans\" and \"Irano-Afghans\" as Nordic, describing them as being long-faced, high-headed and leptorrhine (having long and narrow noses). Bertil Lundman by contrast postulates an \"Iranid\" subtype of his \"Eastern Mediterranean\" race. Earnest Hooton in 1946 describes the \"Iranian Plateau type\" as distinct from the Atlanto-Mediterranean one:\nAccording to Renato Biasutti the type was defined by:\nJohn Lawrence Angel following Coon in 1971 discusses a \"Nordic-Iranian type\" in the following terms:\n\n"}
{"id": "11949746", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11949746", "title": "Karlani", "text": "Karlani\n\nKarlāṇī () is a Pashtun tribal confederacy. The others being Sarbani, Gharghashti and Ghilji. They primarily inhabit the FATA region of North West Pakistan and certain parts of eastern Afghanistan.In the 16th century the Karlani founded the Karrani dynasty, the last dynasty to rule the Bengal Sultanate.\n\nThe legend of Karlani in the folklore says:\n\n\"In his infancy he became an orphan and after losing his family he alone survived and was adopted by the Ormur Tribe. The tribe gave him shelter & protection & raised him like their own son. When he reached a marriageable age, the chief of the Ormur tribe made Karlan his son in law.\" But actually He is not the son of Ghurghusht nor Ormur.\n\nKarlan had two sons named Kodi and Kaki, then Kodi had two sons named (Dilzak) Dilazak and (Shamak Khan) Orakzai from whom the first branch of Karlani tribes descend.\nAbout the Karlani tribes, after explaining family trees of the other tribes' origins, Sir Olaf Caroe writes in his acclaimed book \"The Pathans\":\n\"And thus end the genealogies of the three sons of Qais.\nBut where are such famous tribes as the Afridis, Khattaks, Orakzais.\nWhere are the Bangash; above all where are the Wazirs and Mahsuds. What of the Khaibar, and Waziristan, and the hills of Kohat.\"\nSir Olaf was greatly impressed by Pashtun culture during his tenure with the British government in British India. But he was especially intrigued by the Karlani tribes. These were the tribes that were not subjected to rule by foreigners, these are the ones that refer to themselves by tribe rather than by race.\nFor example \"Mu Bangash, Asi Tanoli, Mung Afridi, Mizh Wazir, Mizh Mahsud (We Bangash, We Tanoli, We Afridi, We Wazir/Mahsud) etc. Instead of \" Mung Pukhtana' (We Pathans). They speak the harder dialect of Pashto. (Although the dialects differ by region even among themselves). They predominantly inhabit the hills and are occasionally called hill tribes.\nAnd some speak other regional languages like more than 50% Tanolis speak hindko.\n\n\n6. \"Alafghan Tanoli\"(Urdu) By Ghulam Nabi Khan Tanoli, First Edition_2001\n"}
{"id": "4288130", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4288130", "title": "Kot Diji Fort", "text": "Kot Diji Fort\n\nThe Kot Diji Fort (; ;\"Fort of the Daughter\"), formally known as Fort Ahmadabad, is a 19th century Talpur-era fort located in the town of Kot Diji in Khairpur District, Pakistan about 25 miles east of the Indus River at the edge of the Thar Desert. The fort sits above a pre-Harappan Civilization archaeological site dating to 2500 to 2800 B.C.E.\n\nThe Kot Diji Fort was built by Mir Sohrab Khan Talpur, between 1785 and 1795. The site sits on a hill at the southern end of the Rohri Hills, and sits above a prehistoric mound of the same name, where remains of a pre-Harappan civilization have been found.\n\nThe fort sits atop a 110 foot tall high hill that rises above the city of Kot Diji. The fort's 30 foot tall walls encircle the uppermost portion of the fort, resulting a narrow-width fortress with perimeter of 1.8 kilometres. The fort contains three strategically placed towers that are each 50 feet tall. The fort contains several sites for cannon placement, and contains numerous inner passages for protection. The fort also contains a water reservoir, munition storage, prison, courtroom, numerous cells for security personnel, and a small regal residence.\n\nGovernment of Pakistan has declared it a protected heritage site in Pakistan, though it has been noted that portions of the fort are under control of powerful local families. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "38871609", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38871609", "title": "Lingayen-Lucena corridor", "text": "Lingayen-Lucena corridor\n\nThe Lingayen-Lucena corridor is the part of Luzon in the Philippines, between Lingayen (in Pangasinan) to Lucena, comprising the province of Pangasinan, and the regions of Central Luzon, Metro Manila and CALABARZON, where national elections are claimed to be won. The corridor comprises about 40% of the vote.\n\nBetween Lingayen in the north and Lucena in the southern part of Luzon is the part of the Philippines that is described as the most urbanized. This is where the high concentration of television and radio makes advertising in those mediums to be critical in winning votes. \n\nAside from being easily reached by candidates either via television or radio, it also has the highest number of internet connections, is the primary market of national dailies, and is the wealthiest area in the country. The corridor, which contains up to 40% of voters in the country, has been used as a sample in opinion polls to gauge how candidates are faring.\n\nThe voters in the corridor, which has been described as the so-called \"market vote\", was described in 2003 by Antonio Gatmaitan, political strategist for Eduardo Cojuangco, Jr.'s failed 1992 presidential bid, as the place where anyone can win, and if one can win there, he can win nationally. Market votes are votes which cannot be commanded by political kingpins; this is opposed to the so-called \"command votes\", which can be delivered by political kingpins.\n\nIn 2004, Gatmaitan introduced the corridor plus Naga, Legazpi, Cebu City, Bacolod, Iloilo City, Davao City, Cagayan de Oro and Zamboanga City which together comprises almost 52% of the voters.\n\nThe only post-People Power Revolution presidential election where the winner of the Corridor failed to win nationally was Fernando Poe, Jr. in 2004. In the thirteen provinces/regions of the corridor (Aurora, Bataan, Batangas, Bulacan, Cavite, Laguna, Metro Manila, Nueva Ecija, Pampanga, Quezon, Rizal, Tarlac and Zambales), Poe won 40.8% of the total votes cast, or 4.65 million votes, 1.32 million more than did Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo, who won 29.2% or 3.33 million. GMA more than made up for this deficit in the Visayas. \n\nIn the 15 provinces (Aklan, Antique, Biliran, Bohol, Capiz, Cebu, Eastern Samar, Guimaras, Iloilo, Leyte, Negros Occidental, Negros Oriental, Northern Samar, Samar and Southern Leyte) of Western, Central and Eastern Visayas, GMA won 61% or 3.6 million votes, versus 27% or 1.6 million votes for FPJ, an insurmountable wave of more than 2 million votes. (In Cebu alone, GMA won just under a million votes or 79.9% of the total, opening up an 842,531 vote lead.) Adding the Visayas results to the Corridor tally, GMA led with 697,039 votes. \n\nAlleged cheating and vote-tampering in the Autonomous Region in Muslim Mindanao does not negate this result. Official results from the five provinces of ARMM plus Sultan Kudarat and Isabela City, Basilan, show that GMA won 685,076 votes there. Even if GMA did not win a single vote in ARMM and all of these 685,076 votes were given to Poe, it would still fall short of the 697,000-vote defeat of the Corridor by the Visayas.\n\nWhat would become Metro Manila, Bulacan, Rizal and Laguna have all voted for the same candidate starting from the 1961 election.\n\n"}
{"id": "375217", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375217", "title": "List of reported UFO sightings", "text": "List of reported UFO sightings\n\nThis is a partial list by date of sightings of alleged unidentified flying objects (UFOs), including reports of close encounters and abductions.\n\n"}
{"id": "38747068", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38747068", "title": "Long Phuri language", "text": "Long Phuri language\n\nLong Phuri, or Long Phuri Naga (Amimi Naga, Longpfuri, Longpfuru, Mimi), is an unclassified Naga language of Burma. It is not close to other Naga languages which it has been compared to, though Long Phuri Naga, Makuri Naga, and Para Naga may be closest to each other.\n\nLong Phuri is spoken in 6 villages of Leshi Township, Hkamti District, Sagaing Region, Myanmar.\n\n"}
{"id": "9520279", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9520279", "title": "Mandat International", "text": "Mandat International\n\nMandat International, also known as the International Cooperation Foundation, is an international non-governmental organization based in Geneva, Switzerland with consultative status to the United Nations Economic and Social Council, the UNDPI, and the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development.\n\nMandat Internatioal aims to promote international dialogue and cooperation, including in the research domain. It promotes international law, data protection and sustainable development. It is strictly independent from any political or religious affiliation.\n\nMandat International is a foundation with public utility status, relying on a network of members covering the various fields of activity of international cooperation. It collaborates closely with most of the international organizations and is independent of any political or religious affiliation. Its first aim is is to promote international cooperation, including in the research domain. Its activities encompass various domains, from ICT research, to international law and privacy, multistakeholder dialogue and international research projects. Over time, the foundation has developed many projects, including several international research projects, international conferences and events, support to over 10’000 delegates for attending international conferences, educational programes, creating the Eduki foundation, legal search engines, conferences, etc. The foundation usually supports projects for a limited period of time but with the objective to have a sustainable impact. When its objectives are achieved it usually pioneers and addresses new emerging challenges.\n\nThe current focus of the foundation is on promoting international cooperation with the research community, developing international research projects, supporting technology transfer from the ressearch community to standardization and international organizations, and promoting international law. The foundation is also actively engaged in the Internet of Things domain to promote international cooperation and dissemination, in line with the International Declaration on Internet of Things for Sustainable Development adopted by the IoT Forum and the ITU.\n\n"}
{"id": "38805174", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38805174", "title": "Maya (Ethiopia)", "text": "Maya (Ethiopia)\n\nThe Maya were a population native to the old Wej province in Ethiopia. They were renowned for their skilled archers, the services of which were available as mercenaries. The Maya were primarily pastoralists and their livelihood was with their cattle.\n\nMaya archers initially formed the core of the southern armies of Abyssinian Emperor Lebna Dengel in resisting the Conquest of Abyssinia (Futuh al-Habash]] by the forces of Ahmad ibn Ibrahim al-Ghazi (Gurey or Gran), Imam of the Adal Sultanate. However, after the fall of their homeland to Ahmed Gurey's armies, in true mercenary fashion, the May bowmen switched sides.\n\nMaya bowmen were armed with spears. They tipped their arrows with ouabain, a poison which caused death by cardiac arrest or respiratory failure.\n\nThe Maya homeland of Wej was one of the first lands to be invaded by the Oromo migrations. The Maya repelled the weight of the Oromo for years due to their skill with the bow, until the Oromo armies changed tactics and used thick oxhide shields and fixed shield formations.\n"}
{"id": "21351296", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21351296", "title": "Monogamy", "text": "Monogamy\n\nMonogamy ( ) is a form of relationship in which an individual has only one partner during their lifetime — alternately, only one partner at any one time (serial monogamy) — as compared to non-monogamy (e.g., polygamy or polyamory). The term is also applied to the social behavior of some animals, referring to the state of having only one mate at any one time.\n\nThe word \"monogamy\" derives from the Greek μονός, \"monos\" (\"alone\"), and γάμος, \"gamos\" (\"marriage\").\n\nThe term \"monogamy\" may be referring to one of various relational types, depending upon context. Generally, there are four overlapping definitions.\n\nFor instance, biologists, biological anthropologists, and behavioral ecologists often use \"monogamy\" in the sense of sexual, if not genetic (reproductive), exclusivity. When cultural or social anthropologists and other social scientists use the term monogamy, the meaning is social or marital monogamy. \n\nMarital monogamy may be further distinguished between:\n\nAccording to the \"Ethnographic Atlas\" by George P. Murdock, of 1,231 societies from around the world noted, 186 were monogamous; 453 had occasional polygyny; 588 had more frequent polygyny; and 4 had polyandry. However, this does not take into account the relative population of each of the societies studied, and the actual practice of polygamy in a tolerant society may actually be low, with the majority of aspirant polygamists practicing monogamous marriage.\n\nDivorce and remarriage can thus result in \"serial monogamy\", i.e. multiple marriages but only one legal spouse at a time. This can be interpreted as a form of plural mating, as are those societies dominated by female-headed families in the Caribbean, Mauritius and Brazil where there is frequent rotation of unmarried partners. In all, these account for 16 to 24% of the \"monogamous\" category.\n\nThe prevalence of sexual monogamy can be roughly estimated as the percentage of married people who do not engage in extramarital sex. The Standard Cross-Cultural Sample describes the amount of extramarital sex by men and women in over 50 pre-industrial cultures.\nThe amount of extramarital sex by men is described as \"universal\" in 6 cultures, \"moderate\" in 29 cultures, \"occasional\" in 6 cultures, and \"uncommon\" in 10 cultures. The amount of extramarital sex by women is described as \"universal\" in 6 cultures, \"moderate\" in 23 cultures, \"occasional\" in 9 cultures, and \"uncommon\" in 15 cultures. These findings support the claim that the reported amount of extramarital sex differs across cultures and across genders.\n\nSurveys conducted in non-Western nations (2001) also found cultural and gender differences in extramarital sex. A study of sexual behavior in Thailand, Tanzania and Côte d'Ivoire suggests about 16–34% of men engage in extramarital sex while a much smaller (unreported) percentage of women engage in extramarital sex.\nStudies in Nigeria have found around 47–53% of men and to 18–36% of women engage in extramarital sex.\nA 1999 survey of married and cohabiting couples in Zimbabwe reports that 38% of men and 13% of women engaged in extra-couple sexual relationships within the last 12 months.\n\nMany surveys asking about extramarital sex in the United States have relied on convenience samples: surveys given to whoever happens to be easily available (e.g., volunteer college students or volunteer magazine readers). Convenience samples do not accurately reflect the population of the United States as a whole, which can cause serious biases in survey results. It should not be surprising, therefore, that surveys of extramarital sex in the United States have produced widely differing results. These studies (1974, 1983, 1993) reported that 12–26% of married women and 15–43% of married men engaged in extramarital sex.\nThe only way to get scientifically reliable estimates of extramarital sex is to use nationally representative samples. Three studies have used nationally representative samples. These studies (1994, 1997) found that about 10–15% of women and 20–25% of men engage in extramarital sex.\n\nResearch by Colleen Hoffon of 566 homosexual male couples from the San Francisco Bay Area (2010) found that 45% had monogamous relationships. However, the Human Rights Campaign has stated, based on a Rockway Institute report, that \"GLBT young people… want to spend their adult life in a long-term relationship raising children.\" Specifically, over 80% of the homosexuals surveyed expected to be in a monogamous relationship after age 30.\n\nA majority of married people remain sexually monogamous during their marriages. The number of married partners who engage in extramarital sex never exceeds 50% in studies using large or nationally representative samples. Yet, the incidence of sexual monogamy varies across cultures. People in some cultures are more sexually monogamous than people in other cultures.\n\nThe incidence of genetic monogamy may be estimated from rates of extrapair paternity. Extrapair paternity is when offspring raised by a monogamous pair come from the female mating with another male. Rates of extrapair paternity have not been extensively studied in people. Many reports of extrapair paternity are little more than quotes based on hearsay, anecdotes, and unpublished findings.\nSimmons, Firman, Rhodes, and Peters reviewed 11 published studies of extra-pair paternity from various locations in the United States, France, Switzerland, the United Kingdom, Mexico, and among the Yanomamo Indians of South America.\nThe rates of extrapair paternity ranged from 0.03% to 11.8% although most of the locations had low percentages of extrapair paternity. The median rate of extrapair paternity was 1.8%. A separate review of 17 studies by Bellis, Hughes, Hughes, and Ashton found slightly higher rates of extrapair paternity.\nThe rates varied from 0.8% to 30% in these studies, with a median rate of 3.7% extrapair paternity. A range of 1.8% to 3.7% extrapair paternity implies a range of 96% to 98% genetic monogamy. Although the incidence of genetic monogamy may vary from 70% to 99% in different cultures or social environments, a large percentage of couples remain genetically monogamous during their relationships. A review paper, surveying 67 other studies, reported rates of extrapair paternity, in different societies, ranging from 0.4% to over 50%.\n\nCovert illegitimacy is a situation which arises when someone who is presumed to be a child's father (or mother) is in fact not the biological father (or mother). Frequencies as high as 30% are sometimes assumed in the media, but research by sociologist Michael Gilding traced these overestimates back to an informal remark at a 1972 conference.\n\nThe detection of unsuspected illegitimacy can occur in the context of medical genetic screening, in genetic family name research, and in immigration testing. Such studies show that covert illegitimacy is in fact less than 10% among the sampled African populations, less than 5% among the sampled Native American and Polynesian populations, less than 2% of the sampled Middle Eastern population, and generally 1%-2% among European samples.\n\nPedigree errors are a well-known source of error in medical studies. When attempts are made to try to study medical afflictions and their genetic components, it becomes very important to understand nonpaternity rates and pedigree errors. There are numerous software packages and procedures that exist for correcting research data for pedigree errors.\n\nMonogamy exists in many societies around the world, and it is important to understand how these marriage systems might have evolved. In any species, there are three main aspects that combine to promote a monogamous mating system: paternal care, resource access, and mate-choice; however, in humans, the main theoretical sources of monogamy are paternal care and extreme ecological stresses. Paternal care should be particularly important in humans due to the extra nutritional requirement of having larger brains and the lengthier developmental period. Therefore, the evolution of monogamy could be a reflection of this increased need for bi-parental care. Similarly, monogamy should evolve in areas of ecological stress because male reproductive success should be higher if their resources are focused on ensuring offspring survival rather than searching for other mates. However, the evidence does not support these claims. Due to the extreme sociality and increased intelligence of humans, \"H. sapiens\" have solved many problems that generally lead to monogamy, such as those mentioned above. For example, monogamy is certainly correlated with paternal care, as shown by Marlowe, but not caused by it because humans diminish the need for bi-parental care through the aid of siblings and other family members in rearing the offspring. Furthermore, human intelligence and material culture allows for better adaptation to different and rougher ecological areas, thus reducing the causation and even correlation of monogamous marriage and extreme climates. However, some scientists argue that monogamy evolved by reducing within-group conflict, thus giving certain groups a competitive advantage against less monogamous groups.\n\nPaleoanthropology and genetic studies offer two perspectives on when monogamy evolved in the human species: paleoanthropologists offer tentative evidence that monogamy may have evolved very early in human history whereas genetic studies show that monogamy evolved much more recently, less than 10,000 to 20,000 years ago.\nPaleoanthropological estimates of the time frame for the evolution of monogamy are primarily based on the level of sexual dimorphism seen in the fossil record because, in general, the reduced male-male competition seen in monogamous mating results in reduced sexual dimorphism. According to Reno et al., the sexual dimorphism of \"Australopithecus afarensis\", a human ancestor from approximately 3.9–3.0 million years ago, was within the modern human range, based on dental and postcranial morphology. Although careful not to say that this indicates monogamous mating in early hominids, the authors do say that reduced levels of sexual dimorphism in \"A. afarensis\" \"do not imply that monogamy is any less probable than polygyny\". However, Gordon, Green and Richmond claim that in examining postcranial remains, \"A. afarensis\" is more sexually dimorphic than modern humans and chimps with levels closer to those of orangutans and gorillas. Furthermore, \"Homo habilis\", living approximately 2.3 mya, is the most sexually dimorphic early hominid. Plavcan and van Schaik conclude their examination of this controversy by stating that, overall, sexual dimorphism in australopithecines is not indicative of any behavioral implications or mating systems.\n\nDespite the human ability to avoid sexual and genetic monogamy, social monogamy still forms under many different conditions, but most of those conditions are consequences of cultural processes. These cultural processes may have nothing to do with relative reproductive success. For example, anthropologist Jack Goody's comparative study utilizing the \"Ethnographic Atlas\" demonstrated that monogamy is part of a cultural complex found in the broad swath of Eurasian societies from Japan to Ireland that practice social monogamy, sexual monogamy and dowry (i.e. \"diverging devolution\", that allow property to be inherited by children of both sexes). Goody demonstrates a statistical correlation between this cultural complex and the development of intensive plough agriculture in those areas. Drawing on the work of Ester Boserup, Goody notes that the sexual division of labour varies in intensive plough agriculture and extensive shifting horticulture. In plough agriculture farming is largely men's work and is associated with private property; marriage tends to be monogamous to keep the property within the nuclear family. Close family (endogamy) are the preferred marriage partners to keep property within the group. A molecular genetic study of global human genetic diversity argued that sexual polygyny was typical of human reproductive patterns until the shift to sedentary farming communities approximately 10,000 to 5,000 years ago in Europe and Asia, and more recently in Africa and the Americas. A further study drawing on the Ethnographic Atlas showed a statistical correlation between increasing size of the society, the belief in \"high gods\" to support human morality, and monogamy. A survey of other cross-cultural samples has confirmed that the absence of the plough was the only predictor of polygamy, although other factors such as high male mortality in warfare (in non-state societies) and pathogen stress (in state societies) had some impact.\nBetzig postulated that culture/society can also be a source of social monogamy by enforcing it through rules and laws set by third-party actors, usually in order to protect the wealth or power of the elite. For example, Augustus Caesar encouraged marriage and reproduction to force the aristocracy to divide their wealth and power among multiple heirs, but the aristocrats kept their socially monogamous, legitimate children to a minimum to ensure their legacy while having many extra-pair copulations. Similarly—according to Betzig—the Christian Church enforced monogamy because wealth passed to the closest living, legitimate male relative, often resulting in the wealthy oldest brother being without a male heir. Thus, the wealth and power of the family would pass to the “celibate” younger brother of the church. In both of these instances, the rule-making elite used cultural processes to ensure greater reproductive fitness for themselves and their offspring, leading to a larger genetic influence in future generations. Furthermore, the laws of the Christian Church, in particular, were important in the evolution of social monogamy in humans. They allowed, even encouraged, poor men to marry and produce offspring which reduced the gap in reproductive success between the rich and poor, thus resulting in the quick spread of monogamous marriage systems in the western world. According to B. S. Low, culture would appear to have a much larger impact on monogamy in humans than the biological forces that are important for non-human animals.\n\nOther theorists use cultural factors influencing reproductive success to explain monogamy. During times of major economic / demographic transitions, investing more in a fewer offspring (social monogamy not polygyny) increases reproductive success by ensuring the offspring themselves have enough initial wealth to be successful. This is seen in both England and Sweden during the industrial revolution and is currently being seen in the modernization of rural Ethiopia. Similarly, in modern industrialized societies, fewer yet better-invested offspring, i.e. social monogamy, can provide a reproductive advantage over social polygyny, but this still allows for serial monogamy and extra-pair copulations.\n\nKarol Wojtyła (later, Pope John Paul II) in his book \"Love and Responsibility\" postulated that monogamy, as an institutional union of two people being in love with one another, was an embodiment of an ethical \"personalistic norm\", and thus the only means of making true human love possible. Some writers have suggested that monogamy may solve the problems associated with non-monogamy and hypergamy such as inceldom.\n\nAlexandra Kollontai in \"Make Way for the Winged Eros\" argues that monogamy is an artifact of capitalist concepts of property and inheritance and wrote, \"The social aims of the working class are not affected one bit by whether love takes the form of a long and official union or is expressed in a temporary relationship. The ideology of the working class does not place any formal limits on love.\" Later, \"Modern love always sins, because it absorbs the thoughts and feelings of 'loving hearts' and isolates the loving pair from the collective. In the future society, such a separation will not only become superfluous but also psychologically inconceivable.\" One of the tenets of the new proletarian morality is \"mutual recognition of the rights of the other, of the fact that one does not own the heart and soul of the other (the sense of property, encouraged by bourgeois culture).\"\n\nThe historical record offers contradictory evidence on the development and extent of monogamy as a social practice. Laura Betzig argues that in the six large, highly stratified early states, commoners were generally monogamous but that elites practiced de facto polygyny. Those states included Mesopotamia, Egypt, Aztec Mexico, Inca Peru, India and China.\n\nBoth the Babylonian and Assyrian families were monogamous in principle but not entirely so in practice since polygyny was frequently practiced by the rulers.\n\nIn the patriarchal society of Mesopotamia the nuclear family was called a \"house\". In order \"to build a house\" a man was supposed to marry one woman and if she did not provide him with offspring, he could take a second wife. The Code of Hammurabi states that he loses his right to do so if the wife herself gives him a slave as concubine. According to Old Assyrian texts, he could be obliged to wait for two or three years before he was allowed to take another wife. The position of the second wife was that of a \"slave girl\" in respect to the first wife, as many marriage contracts explicitly state.\n\nAlthough an Egyptian man was free to marry several women at a time, and some wealthy men from Old and Middle Kingdoms did have more than one wife, monogamy was the norm. There may have been some exceptions, e.g. a Nineteenth Dynasty official stated as proof of his love to his deceased wife that he had stayed married to her since their youth, even after he had become very successful (P. Leiden I 371). This may suggest that some men abandoned first wives of a low social status and married women of higher status in order to further their careers although even then they lived with only one wife. Egyptian women had right to ask for a divorce if her husband took a second wife. Many tomb reliefs testify to monogamous character of Egyptian marriages, officials are usually accompanied by a supportive wife. \"His wife X, his beloved\" is the standard phrase identifying wives in tomb inscriptions. The instruction texts belonging to wisdom literature, e.g. Instruction of Ptahhotep or Instruction of Any, support fidelity to monogamous marriage life, calling the wife a \"Lady of the house\". The Instruction of Ankhsheshonq suggests that it is wrong to abandon a wife because of her barrenness.\n\nAs against Betzig's contention that monogamy evolved as a result of Christian socio-economic influence in the West, monogamy appeared widespread in the ancient Middle East much earlier. In Israel's pre-Christian era, an essentially monogamous ethos underlay the Jewish creation story (Gn 2) and the last chapter of Proverbs. During the Second Temple period (530 BCE to 70 CE), apart from an economic situation which supported monogamy even more than in earlier period, the concept of \"mutual fidelity\" between husband and wife was a quite common reason for strictly monogamous marriages. Some marriage documents explicitly expressed a desire for the marriage to remain monogamous. Examples of these documents were found in Elephantine. They resemble those found in neighbouring Assyria and Babylonia. Study shows that ancient Middle East societies, though not strictly monogamous, were practically (at least on commoners' level) monogamous. Halakha of the Dead Sea Sect saw prohibition of polygamy as coming from the Pentateuch (Damascus Document 4:20–5:5, one of the Dead Sea Scrolls). Christianity adopted a similar attitude (cf. 1 Tm 3:2,12; Tt 1:6), which conformed with Jesus' approach. Michael Coogan, in contrast, states that \"Polygyny continued to be practised well into the biblical period, and it is attested among Jews as late as the second century CE.\"\n\nUnder Judges and the monarchy, old restrictions went into disuse, especially among royalty, though the Books of Samuel and Kings, which cover entire period of monarchy, do not record a single case of bigamy among commoners — except for Samuel's father. The wisdom books e.g. Book of Wisdom, which provides a picture of the society, Sirach, Proverbs, Qohelet portray a woman in a strictly monogamous family (cf. Pr 5:15-19; Qo 9:9; Si 26:1-4 and eulogy of perfect wife, Proverbs 31:10-31). The Book of Tobias speaks solely of monogamous marriages. Also prophets have in front of their eyes monogamous marriage as an image of the relationship of God and Israel. (Cf. Ho 2:4f; Jer 2:2; Is 50:1; 54:6-7; 62:4-5; Ez 16). Roland de Vaux states that \"it is clear that the most common form of marriage in Israel was monogamy\".\n\nThe Mishnah and the \"baraitot\" clearly reflect a monogamist viewpoint within Judaism (Yevamot 2:10 etc.). Some sages condemned marriage to two wives even for the purpose of procreation (Ketubot 62b). R. Ammi, an \"amora\" states:\n\nWhoever takes a second wife in addition to his first one shall divorce the first and pay her \"kettubah\" (Yevamot 65a)\n\nRoman customs, which prohibited polygamy, may have enhanced such an attitude - especially after 212 AD, when all the Jews became Roman citizens. However, some Jews continued to practice bigamy (e.g. up to medieval times in Egypt and Europe). Fourth-century Roman law forbade Jews to contract plural marriages.\n\nA synod convened by Gershom ben Judah around 1000 CE banned polygamy among Ashkenazi and Sephardic Jews.\n\nThe ancient Greeks and Romans were monogamous in the sense that men were not allowed to have more than one wife or to cohabit with concubines during marriage.\n\nAccording to Jesus Christ monogamy was a primordial will of the Creator described in Genesis, darkened by the \"hardness of hearts\" of the Israelites. As John Paul II interpreted the dialogue between Jesus and the Pharisees (Gospel of Matthew 19:3–8), Christ emphasized the primordial beauty of monogamic spousal love described in the Book of Genesis 1:26–31, 2:4–25, whereby a man and woman by their nature are each ready to be a beautifying, total and personal gift to one another:\n\nJesus avoids entangling himself in juridical or casuistic controversies; instead, he appeals twice to the \"beginning\". By doing so, he clearly refers to the relevant words of Genesis, which his interlocutors also know by heart. (...) it clearly leads the interlocutors to reflect about the way in which, in the mystery of creation, man was formed precisely as \"male and female,\" in order to understand correctly the normative meaning of the words of Genesis.\n\nWestern European societies established monogamy as their marital norm. Monogamous marriage is normative and is legally enforced in most of the world's highly developed countries. Laws prohibiting polygyny were adopted in 1880 in Japan, 1953 in China, 1955 in India and 1963 in Nepal.\n\nThe women's rights movements in these nations want to make monogamy the only legal form of marriage. The United Nations joined these efforts in 1979 when the General Assembly adopted the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination Against Women, an international bill of rights for women that over 180 nations have agreed to implement. Article 16 of the Convention requires nations to give women and men equal rights in marriage. Polygamy is interpreted as inconsistent with Article 16 when it extends the right of multiple spouses to men but not to women. The United Nations has established the Committee on the Elimination of Discrimination against Women (CEDAW) to monitor the progress of nations implementing the Convention. The United Nations is thus working through the Convention and CEDAW to promote women's equality by making monogamy the only legal form of marriage worldwide.\n\nThe founders of Communism determined that monogamous marriage inherently oppressed women and therefore had no place in communist society. Friedrich Engels stated that compulsory monogamy could only lead to increased prostitution and general immorality, with the benefits of restricting capital and solidifying the class structure. As he spelled out in \"The Origin of the Family, Private Property and the State\" (1884),\n\"The first class antagonism which appears in history coincides with the development of the antagonism between man and woman in monogamian marriage, and the first class oppression with that of the female sex by the male. …[T]he wellbeing and development of the one group are attained by the misery and repression of the other.\"\n\n\"The monogamous family is distinguished from the pairing family by the far greater durability of wedlock, which can no longer be dissolved at the pleasure of either party. As a rule, it is only the man who can still dissolve it and cast off his wife.\"\n\nHowever, the communist revolutionaries in China chose to take the Western viewpoint, of monogamy as giving women and men equal rights in marriage. The newly formed Communist government established monogamy as the only legal form of marriage.\n\n\"The 1950 Marriage Law called for sweeping changes in many areas of family life. It forbade any 'arbitrary and compulsory' form of marriage that would be based on the superiority of men and would ignore women’s interests. The new democratic marriage system was based on the free choice of couples, monogamy, equal rights for both sexes, and the protection of the lawful interests of women. It abolished the begetting of male offspring as the principal purpose of marriage and weakened kinship ties which reduced the pressure on women to bear many children, especially sons. With arranged marriages prohibited, young women could choose their own marriage partners, share the financial cost of setting up a new household, and have equal status in household and family decision-making. The Government then initiated an extensive campaign of marriage-law education, working jointly with the Communist Party, women’s federations, trade unions, the armed forces, schools and other organizations.\"\nThe African Union has adopted the \"Protocol on the Rights of Women in Africa\" (the Maputo Protocol). While the protocol does not suggest making polygamous marriage illegal, article 6 of the protocol states that \"monogamy is encouraged as the preferred form of marriage and that the rights of women in marriage and family, including in polygamous marital relationships are promoted and protected.\" The protocol entered into force November 25, 2005.\n\nRecent discoveries have led biologists to talk about the three varieties of monogamy: social monogamy, sexual monogamy, and genetic monogamy. The distinction between these three are important to the modern understanding of monogamy.\n\nMonogamous pairs of animals are not always sexually exclusive. Many animals that form pairs to mate and raise offspring regularly engage in sexual activities with partners other than their primary mate. This is called extra-pair copulation. Sometimes these extra-pair sexual activities lead to offspring. Genetic tests frequently show that some of the offspring raised by a monogamous pair come from the female mating with an extra-pair male partner. These discoveries have led biologists to adopt new ways of talking about monogamy:\nWhatever makes a pair of animals socially monogamous does not necessarily make them sexually or genetically monogamous. Social monogamy, sexual monogamy, and genetic monogamy can occur in different combinations.\n\nSocial monogamy does not always involve marriage in humans. A married couple is almost always a socially monogamous couple. But couples who choose to cohabit without getting married can also be socially monogamous. The popular science author Matt Ridley in his book \"The Red Queen: Sex and the Evolution of Human Nature\", described the human mating system as \"monogamy plagued by adultery\".\n\nSerial monogamy is a mating practice in which individuals may engage in sequential monogamous pairings, or in terms of humans, when men or women can marry another partner but only after ceasing to be married to the previous partner.\n\nOne theory is that this pattern pacifies the elite men and equalizes reproductive success. This is called the Male Compromise Theory. Such serial monogamy may effectively resemble polygyny in its reproductive consequences because some men are able to utilize more than one woman’s reproductive lifespan through repeated marriages.\n\nSerial monogamy may also refer to sequential sexual relationships, irrespective of marital status. A pair of humans may remain sexually exclusive, or monogamous, until the relationship has ended and then each may go on to form a new exclusive pairing with a different partner. This pattern of serial monogamy is common among people in Western cultures.\n\nEvolutionary theory predicts that males would be apt to seek more mating partners than females because they obtain higher reproductive benefits from such a strategy. Accordingly, males developed many behavior strategies that allow them to acquire more reproductively capable sexual partners. Therefore, in order to monopolize periods of more than one female’s reproductive life span without being considered polygamous and thus breaking social norms of a monogamous society, males try to remarry women younger than themselves. A study done in 1994 found a significant difference between ages of remarried men and women because the men have a longer reproductive window.\n\nSerial monogamy has always been closely linked to divorce practices. Whenever procedures for obtaining divorce have been simple and easy, serial monogamy has been found. As divorce has continued to become more accessible, more individuals have availed themselves of it, and many go on to remarry. Barry Schwartz, author of \"The Paradox of Choice: Why less is more\", further suggests that Western culture's inundation of choice has devalued relationships based on lifetime commitments and singularity of choice. It has been suggested, however, that high mortality rates in centuries past accomplished much the same result as divorce, enabling remarriage (of one spouse) and thus serial monogamy.\n\nMonogamy is one of several mating systems observed in animals. However, a pair of animals may be socially monogamous but that does not necessarily make them sexually or genetically monogamous. Social monogamy, sexual monogamy, and genetic monogamy can occur in different combinations.\n\nSocial monogamy refers to the overtly observed living arrangement whereby a male and female share territory and engage in behaviour indicative of a social pair, but does not imply any particular sexual fidelity or reproductive pattern. The extent to which social monogamy is observed in animals varies across taxa, with over 90 percent of avian species being socially monogamous, compared to only 3 percent of mammalian species and up to 15 percent of primate species. Social monogamy has also been observed in reptiles, fish, and insects.\n\nSexual monogamy is defined as an exclusive sexual relationship between a female and a male based on observations of sexual interactions. However, scientific analyses can test for paternity, for example by DNA paternity testing or by fluorescent pigment powder tracing of females to track physical contact. This type of analysis can uncover reproductively successful sexual pairings or physical contact. Genetic monogamy refers to DNA analyses confirming that a female-male pair reproduce exclusively with each other.\n\nThe incidence of sexual monogamy appears quite rare in other parts of the animal kingdom. It is becoming clear that even animals that are overtly socially monogamous engage in extra-pair copulations. For example, while over 90% of birds are socially monogamous, \"on average, 30 percent or more of the baby birds in any nest [are] sired by someone other than the resident male.\" Patricia Adair Gowaty has estimated that, out of 180 different species of socially monogamous songbirds, only 10% are sexually monogamous. Offspring are far more successful when both the male and the female members of the social pair contribute food resources.\n\nAn example of this was seen when scientists studied red winged blackbirds. These birds are known for remaining in monogamous relationships during the course of mating season. During the course of the study, the researchers gave a few select males vasectomies just before mating season. The male birds behaved like they do every season, establishing territory, finding a mate, and attempting to make baby birds. Despite apparent social monogamy, the female birds whose partners were surgically altered still became pregnant, indicating that overt social monogamy did not predict for sexual fidelity. These babies were cared for by their sterile adoptive fathers.\n\nThe highest known frequency of reproductively successful extra-pair copulations are found among fairywrens\nMalurus splendens and Malurus cyaneus where more than 65 percent of chicks are fathered by males outside the supposed breeding pair. This discordantly low level of genetic monogamy has been a surprise to biologists and zoologists, as social monogamy can no longer be assumed to determine how genes are distributed in a species.\n\nElacatinus, also widely known as neon gobies, also exhibit social monogamy. Hetereosexual pairs of fish belonging to the genus Elacatinus remain closely associated during both reproductive and non-reproductive periods, and often reside in same cleaning station to serve client fish.\n\nSocially monogamous species are scattered throughout the animal kingdom: A few insects, a few fish, about nine-tenths of birds, and a few mammals are socially monogamous. There is even a parasitic worm, \"Schistosoma mansoni\", that in its female-male pairings in the human body is monogamous. The diversity of species with social monogamy suggests that it is not inherited from a common ancestor but instead evolved independently in many different species.\n\nThe low occurrence of social monogamy in placental mammals has been claimed to be related to the presence or absence of estrus—or oestrus—the duration of sexual receptivity of a female. This, however, doesn't explain \"why\" estrus females generally mate with any proximate male nor any correlation between sexual and social monogamy. Birds, which are notable for a high incidence of social monogamy, do not have estrus.\n\nResearchers have observed a mixed mating system of monogamy and polygyny in the European pied flycatcher.\n\nPsychological studies of social monogamy have relied heavily on observations of married couples. These studies focus on relationship satisfaction, duration and attachment.\n\nThe North American microtine rodent's (vole) complex social structure and social behavior has provided unique opportunities to study the underlying neural bases for monogamy and social attachment. Data from studies using the \"Microtis ochrogaster\" or prairie vole indicate that the neuroendocrine hormones, oxytocin (in female prairie voles) and vasopressin (in male prairie voles) play a central role in the development of affiliative connections during mating. The effects of intracerebroventricular administration of oxytocin and vasopressin have been shown to promote affiliative behavior in the prairie vole but not in similar, but non-monogamous montane voles. This difference in neuropeptide effect is attributed to the location, density, and distribution of OT and AVP receptors. Only in the prairie voles are OT and AVP receptors located along the mesolimbic dopamine reward pathway, presumably conditioning the voles to their mates odor while consolidating the social memory of the mating episode. This finding highlights the role of genetic evolution in altering the neuroanatomical distribution of receptors, resulting in certain neural circuits becoming sensitive to changes in neuropeptides.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19425551", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19425551", "title": "National Reconciliation Ordinance", "text": "National Reconciliation Ordinance\n\nThe National Reconciliation Ordinance (NRO; Urdu: قومی مفاہمت فرمان 2007ء) was a controversial ordinance issued by the former President of Pakistan, General Pervez Musharraf, on 5 October 2007. It granted amnesty to politicians, political workers and bureaucrats who were accused of corruption, embezzlement, money laundering, murder, and terrorism between 1 January 1986, and 12 October 1999, the time between two states of martial law in Pakistan. It was declared unconstitutional by the Supreme Court of Pakistan on 16 December 2009, throwing the country into a political crisis.\n\nThe ordinance aimed at \"promoting national reconciliation, fostering mutual trust and confidence amongst holders of public office and removing the vestiges of political vendetta and victimization, and to make the election process more transparent\". The NRO states:\n\nIt is widely believed that the act was a measure to allow the former Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto to return to Pakistan without any legal consequences due to pending politically motivated corruption cases. However, Musharraf had said that it was necessary to build a reconciliatory theme in the political arena with the removal of such politically motivated cases. Musharraf stated in an interview that cases had been in the courts for a decade without any judgment being passed and were hampering political progress of virtually all political parties.\n\nAccording to Transparency International, Pakistan is considered one of the corrupt countries in the world. For the year 2009 it was ranked 42nd out of 180 and had a score of 2.4 on the Corruption Perceptions Index.\n\nFurthermore, some analyst believe 'US, the UK and Saudi Arabia underwrote a public amnesty which would enable popular politicians such as Benazir Bhutto to return to the country and counter the Taliban.'\n\nThe former Chief Justice of Pakistan, Saad Bashir, suspended this ordinance on 12 October 2007. But he was soon dismissed after Musharraf abrogated the constitution on 3 November 2007. The new Chief Justice, Abdul Hameed Dogar revived the NRO on 27 February 2008.\n\nIn November 2009, Government of Pakistan released the list of the beneficiaries of NRO on the directives of Prime Minister Syed Yousuf Raza Gilani. The total list was 8041 beneficiaries most of which were bureaucrats, along with a handful of politicians. Amongst the beneficiaries were only 34 Politicians while others were all personnel of the armed forces and/or bureaucrats. The cases also included some high-ranking politicians, such as the Ex-President Asif Ali Zardari and Ex-Prime Minister Yousuf Raza Gillani. The NRO was planned to be presented in the National Assembly but later due to the opposition of several major parties was not presented in the Assembly. According to State Minister for Law Afzal Sindhu in a news conference, the ordinance affected 8,041 people, including 34 politicians and 03 ambassadors.\n\nOn 16 December 2009, the Supreme Court of Pakistan declared NRO unconstitutional. A 17-member bench of the Supreme Court, headed by Chief Justice Iftikhar Muhammad Chaudhry, declared the ordinance null and void. The Supreme Court also said that all the cases disposed of because of the controversial ordinance now stand revived as of 5 October 2007 position. The court opined that the NRO \"seems to be against national interests thus it violates the provisions of the constitution.\" Western diplomats subsequently expressed concern that Pakistan could face further instability due to this ruling, especially if Mr Zardari's political opponents try to remove him from office. However, the verdict was widely welcomed in Pakistan.\n\nAfter this verdict, Pakistan's National Accountability Bureau asked the Interior Ministry to bar 248 people, including Interior Minister of Pakistan Rehman Malik, from leaving the country. The following day an arrest warrant was issued against Malik. Defence Minister of Pakistan Chaudhry Ahmad Mukhtar was stopped from departing the country on a trip to China at Islamabad airport. Writing in the Pakistani newspaper \"Dawn\", columnist Cyril Almeida stated \"It's chaos out there. Nobody knows what's going on. Everyone is trying to work out the ramifications of the court order.\"\n\nThe political crises deepened as the government was paralysed and the country seemed to slide towards a coup with it being increasingly unclear whether the elected politicians, the judiciary or somebody else was running the country. The extent of the crises led to speculation whether the Army had any role to play in this. The situation was described as a 'creeping coup'. Asma Jahangir, chairperson of Human Rights Commission of Pakistan was quoted as saying 'It's complete (judicial) control now, the issue is whether the (democratic) system is going to pack up again.' In an editorial in \"Dawn\" she criticised the judiciary and called the judgement a 'witchhunt'. She also remarked 'long-term effects of the judgment could also be counter-productive; perpetrators are often viewed as victims if justice is not applied in an even-handed manner and if administered in undue haste with overwhelming zeal.'\n\nIn an hearing of NRO Case, the supreme court was told that government was looking for a lawyer upon which it could trust to run the government's side while chief justice of Pakistan has asked the government to adopt all necessary measures otherwise the Prime Minister of Pakistan has to appear and proceed the case himself.\n\nSelected NRO beneficiaries include:\nOther than these there are hundreds of political as well as non-political persons who have benefited from this ordinance. The National Accountability Bureau (NAB) presented a list of 248 politicians and bureaucrats to the government, whose cases were cleared by NAB due to NRO.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7515353", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7515353", "title": "Non-European royal and noble ranks", "text": "Non-European royal and noble ranks\n\nSome titles of nobility outside Europe may be considered as equivalents of Duke.\n\nLike other major Western noble titles, Duke is sometimes used to render (translate) certain titles in non-western languages. \"Duke\" is used even though those titles are generally etymologically and often historically unrelated and thus hard to compare. However, they are considered roughly equivalent, especially in hierarchic aristocracies such as feudal Japan, useful as an indication of relative rank.\n\nIn the most general of terms, Gong (Wade-Giles Kung （公） was the hereditary title of nobility of the first rank, usually translated as Duke.\nUnder the Manchu (ruling ethnicity of the last imperial dynasty), there were ducal titles in both types of titled nobility.\n\nWithin the imperial family (extended, but limited; such systematic titulature is unknown in Europe) there were fourteen ranks, arranged in the following descending order: \n\nAll, except the ninth grade, were heritable for a specific number of generations, ranging from twenty-six generations for a first class Kung to one generation for a Yün Ch'i Yü. In certain instances, some titles were held by Right of Perpetual Inheritance \"Shixi wangti (Wade-Giles Shih Hssi Wang T'i\").\n\nHistorian Harold G. Marcus equates the Ethiopian title of Ras (Head) to a Duke. The combined title of \"Leul\" (Prince) \"Ras\" was given to the heads of the cadet branches of the Imperial dynasty, such as the Princes of Gojjam, Tigray, and Selale.\n\nThe highest-ranking of the fives titles of the kazoku (jp: 華族, literally \"flowery lineage\"), the hereditary peerage of Japan between 1869 and 1947, \"kōshaku\", is rendered in Western languages either as prince or as duke.\n\nIn Goryeo Dynasty, there were two ranks similar to that of duke. The upper was Gukgong(국공, 國公, means “duke of the nation”). Gukgong was the first rank of Goryeo peerage system, and 3,000 families gave their agricultural production and workforce for Gukgong. The lower was Gungong (군공, 郡公, means “duke of county”), which took 2,000 families' production and workforce. In bureaucratic order, Gukgong was in upper second rank, and Gungong was in lower second rank.\n\nIn Joseon Dynasty, there was no title that is equivalent to Duke.\n\nMale members of the Imperial clan received, in addition to a birthright-title by degree of parentage, one of nine senior titles of nobility, of which Quan-Cong Duke was the third, under \"Vuong\" King and \"Quoc-Cong\" Grand Duke, but above \"Cong\" Prince, \"Hau\" Marquis, \"Ba\" Count, \"Tu\" Viscount, \"Nam\" Baron and \"Vinh phong\" noble.\n"}
{"id": "1186492", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1186492", "title": "Portuñol", "text": "Portuñol\n\nPortuñol (Spanish spelling) or Portunhol (Portuguese spelling) () is the name often given to any unsystematic mixture of Portuguese with Spanish. The word is a portmanteau of the words Portugués/Português (\"Portuguese\") and Español/Espanhol (\"Spanish\").\n\nPortuñol, or Portunhol, is a pidgin, or simplified mixture of the two languages, that allows speakers of either Spanish or Portuguese who are not proficient in the other language to communicate with one another. When speakers of one of the languages attempt to speak the other language, there is often interference from the native language, which causes the phenomenon of code-switching to occur. It is possible to conduct a moderately fluent conversation in this way because Portuguese and Spanish are closely related Romance languages. They have almost identical syntactic structures, as well as overlapping lexicons due to cognates, which means that a single macro-grammar is produced when the two mix. The phrase \"en el hueco de la noite longa e langue\" illustrates a code-switch between the Spanish article \"la\" and the Portuguese noun \"noite\". This example reveals the grammatical possibilities of code-switching between the two languages.\n\nLanguage contact between Spanish and Portuguese is the result of sustained contact between the two languages in border communities and multilingual trade environments. Such regions include the border regions between Portugal and Spain in the Iberian Peninsula, as well as the ones between Brazil, whose official language is Portuguese, and most of its neighboring countries whose official languages are Spanish. Because \"Portuñol\" is a spontaneous register resulting from the occasional mixing of Spanish and Portuguese, it is highly diverse; there is no one dialect or standard of \"Portuñol\". There does, however, tend to be a stronger presence of Spanish in \"Portuñol\".\n\nIn recent years, \"Portuñol\" has begun to appear in realms other than everyday speech. It has become a literary medium, especially in Uruguay and Brazil. María Jesus Fernández García describes it as a linguistic recreation of the actual language. However, she goes on to say that the literature only occasionally provides a true representation of \"Portuñol\", and that authors often choose to select only some of the features that are characteristic of \"Portuñol\". One important literary work written in \"Portuñol\" is \"Mar paraguayo\" by Brazilian author Wilson Bueno. The following passage shows the mixing of Spanish and Portuguese in his novel.\n\nThe appearance of \"Portuñol\" has prompted two opposing opinions or attitudes towards its existence. On the one hand, it is viewed as the product of laziness among speakers unwilling to learn a different language. On the other hand, it is seen as the logical product of globalization. As far as the future of \"Portuñol\" is concerned, according to Francisco A. Marcos-Marín, it is too difficult to evaluate possible repercussions that \"Portuñol\" could have on future linguistic maps because it is not easy to separate linguistic tendencies that are merely in style and those that are permanent.\n\n"}
{"id": "4521050", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4521050", "title": "Prostitution in Nepal", "text": "Prostitution in Nepal\n\nProstitution in Nepal is illegal. The Human Trafficking and Transportation (Control) Act, 2064, Act Number 5 of the Year 2064 (2008), criminalises prostitution and living of the earnings of prostitution by including it in the definition of human trafficking. UNAIDS estimate there to be 67,300 prostitutes in the country.\n\nAlthough there are no laws in Nepal criminalizing sex work specifically, there are some laws that were enacted throughout the 1980s that criminalize trafficking within and outside of Nepal that are used towards sex work. Many of these laws are sometimes interpreted to accuse sex workers as well, which comes from a lack of knowledge in the distinction between the sex trafficking scene and sex work. Sex work is a term used to refer to all aspects of the lawful and unlawful sex industries around the world. There are various forms of sex work, including physical and verbal forms. This distinction is one that is not truly understood; thus, many of the policies and laws enacted within Nepal against trafficking—many argue—should not be applied to sex work. Authorities and laws trying to stop true slavery—trafficking—get misapplied to sex workers, clients and others involved in the sex industry.\n\nIn 1986, the Traffic in Humans (Control) Act was passed in Nepal and was aimed at stopping trafficking in the form of prostitution. However, this act, like many others, proved to be ineffective, mainly due to the fact that the act was “largely aimed at criminalizing prostitution rather than curbing trafficking activities.”\n\nIn 2008, the Human Trafficking and Transportation (Control) Act, criminalised prostitution and living of the earnings of prostitution by including it in the definition of human trafficking.\n\nFor many, entering into the sex industry is the only way in which they could survive economically in Nepal. However, sex work is not officially recognized among the industrial or service sectors of labor. There is a large case of sex trafficking in Nepal, but voluntary sex work is more common than many believe.\n\nAmong the developing poor nations throughout Southeast Asia today, Nepal remains one of the most poverty-stricken. Research shows that about 38% of the Nepali population is living under US$1 per day, and 82% under US$2 per day. Due to this high rate of poverty, the rural poor Nepalese people generally have large families, are landless or have very small landholdings, have high rates of illiteracy and are concentrated in specific ethnic, caste and minority groups. These issues of poverty are part of why many people, including both cisgender and transgender men and women, go into the sex industry in Nepal. Due to their large families, these sex workers need to find a way to help out within the household. More specifically, there are not many opportunities for the women sex workers, and women in general, to break out of the domestic environment and duties which have left them in poverty, so the only option left for them is going into sex work.\n\nNepal, like many other Southeast Asian countries, has a limited amount of resources for women. Recently, the Nepalese government has recognized more rights for women in terms of family involvement, physical integrity, ownership rights, and overall civil liberties. However, this does not change the fact that women are still highly underrepresented in Nepalese society, and do not have the same rights that men do.\n\nWomen constitute a majority of these sex workers, because they rarely have any opportunities otherwise. These women may feel empowered by the work that they do, in the sense that they can better provide for their families, and be seen for something other than what society treats women. In some cases, girls that are put into the sex industry are forced to migrate to carpet factories outside of Nepal or in more centralized cities by their families to better provide for them. After a while, they are either abducted into the traffic scene, or coerced to join. The issue of poverty has driven many families in Nepal to desperation, to the point of putting their daughters out on the streets to earn money to help out in the home.\n\nHuman trafficking in Nepal—more specifically, sex trafficking—is a common precursor to voluntary sex work. After escaping from the sex trafficking world, women return to sex work when they return to Nepal, for it is the only thing they know.\n\nSex work in Nepal can be a short-term relief to the poverty and struggles encountered by these hundreds of women on a daily basis. The long-term effects bring a new perspective to sex work, and are a big part of the argument against sex work.\n\nMany people go into the sex work field in hopes of finding a better opportunity for their families and for themselves. This is especially true in Nepal, which is ranked as one of the countries with the lowest human development indicators in the world, ranked 143 in the United Nations Human Development Index, with an HDI of 0.458. Because sex workers usually belong to the lower castes of the caste system within Nepal (a survey conducted by UN Nepal, showed that the majority of the sex workers were from Tamangs and Dalits), India, and other Southeast Asian countries, they feel as though sex work is the only opportunity that they truly have to better their lives and that of their families. The Nepalese caste system makes it very difficult for people of any class to rise up to a higher class. There have been rare instances in which members of a specific class have risen, and even in these cases, the members only rise within their own caste (see also Nepalese caste system). Due to this social trap, sex work is seen as a way to escape from the social organization. Sex work can allow those in lower castes to provide for their family in a different way. In the short-term, going into the sex industry would seem like a logical solution, since the money that many of these sex workers make can go towards the improvement of their families.\n\nSex workers are exposed to a variety of serious risks, including: sexually transmitted diseases, a decrease in security, and a loss of human rights.\n\nNepal faces increasing HIV prevalence among most at-risk populations (MARPs) such as sex workers, injecting drug users (IDUs), men who have sex with men (MSM), and migrants. Since 1988, when the first case of HIV/AIDS in Nepal was reported, more than 1,750 cases of AIDS and over 11,000 cases of HIV infection were officially reported. Since Nepal is limited in terms of its public health surveillance system, the actual number of infections throughout the country is said to be more. UNAIDS estimates that approximately 64,000 people were living with HIV at the end of 2009; however, this number may be higher, because the limitations of Nepal’s public health surveillance system do not allow for the actual number of infections to be found within the population.\n\nThe entry of women into sex work can sometimes take an unexpected turn. Although some women go into the sex industry voluntarily, they can end up being taken into the larger sex trafficking scene to India and surrounding areas. The trafficking of women and girls to India is a major problem which has made international news. Every year, a rough estimate of about 7,000 Nepali girls are trafficked to India, where they are forced into prostitution. Nepalese women and girls, especially virgins, are favored in India, because of their fair skin and young looks (see also Human trafficking in Nepal).\n\nSince the policy of an open border between China and Nepal, a large number of Nepalese women in recent years have been sold into prostitution or as brides to Chinese men.\n\nAside from being kidnapped into the trafficking scene, sex workers run the risk of being abused sexually against their will. When things like this happen, it is hard for these sex workers to get protection, because they are seen as criminals. This is one of the reasons that many are fighting to legalize voluntary sex work. Many argue that these people deserve protection against harm, just like those that are taken into the trafficking scene.\n\nWhen living a life in the sex industry, many argue that the risk of losing human rights is common. Many times, especially in Nepal, the sex industry is run by organized crime. The sex industry contributes between 2%-14% of gross domestic product in countries such as Nepal. Due to this, there is a great incentive for corruption as far as within officials and the police. “This puts women sex workers in vulnerable positions because the institution mandated to protect people either ignores their problems or takes part in the abuse.” If sex workers were to challenge the authority of these officials—even by demanding control over their own bodies—they are running the risk of being punished within the community and even the law. This is another controversial issue, in that the suppliers are always the ones being punished, while the demand sector of this industry seems to get away with their equally incriminating actions.\n\nNepal is a source, transit, and destination country for women and children subjected to sex trafficking. Nepali women and girls are subjected to sex trafficking in Nepal, India, the Middle East, Asia, and Sub-Saharan Africa. Unregistered migrants, including the large number of Nepalis who travel through India or rely on unregistered recruiting agents, are particularly vulnerable to sex trafficking. Some migrants from Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, and possibly other countries transit Nepal en route to employment in the Middle East, using potentially falsified Nepali travel documents, and may be subjected to human trafficking. Some government officials reportedly accept bribes to include false information in Nepali identity documents or provide fraudulent documents to prospective labor migrants, a tactic used by unscrupulous recruiters to evade recruitment regulations. Many Nepalis, including children, whose home or livelihood was destroyed by the 2015 earthquakes continue to be vulnerable to trafficking. Traffickers increasingly utilize social media and mobile technologies to lure and deceive their victims.\n\nThe United States Department of State Office to Monitor and Combat Trafficking in Persons ranks Nepal as a 'Tier 2' country.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52138025", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52138025", "title": "Regulation of transcription in cancer", "text": "Regulation of transcription in cancer\n\nGenerally, in progression to cancer, hundreds of genes are silenced or activated. Although silencing of some genes in cancers occurs by mutation, a large proportion of carcinogenic gene silencing is a result of altered DNA methylation (see DNA methylation in cancer). DNA methylation causing silencing in cancer typically occurs at multiple CpG sites in the CpG islands that are present in the promoters of protein coding genes. \n\nAltered expressions of microRNAs also silence or activate many genes in progression to cancer (see microRNAs in cancer). Altered microRNA expression occurs through hyper/hypo-methylation of CpG sites in CpG islands in promoters controlling transcription of the microRNAs. \n\nSilencing of DNA repair genes through methylation of CpG islands in their promoters appears to be especially important in progression to cancer (see methylation of DNA repair genes in cancer).\n\nIn humans, about 70% of promoters located near the transcription start site of a gene (proximal promoters) contain a CpG island. CpG islands are generally 200 to 2000 base pairs long, have a C:G base pair content >50%, and have regions of DNA where a cytosine nucleotide is followed by a guanine nucleotide and this occurs frequently in the linear sequence of bases along its 5' → 3' direction.\n\nGenes may also have distant promoters (distal promoters) and these frequently contain CpG islands as well. An example is the promoter of the DNA repair gene \"ERCC1\", where the CpG island-containing promoter is located about 5,400 nucleotides upstream of the coding region of the \"ERCC1\" gene. CpG islands also occur frequently in promoters for functional noncoding RNAs such as microRNAs.\n\nIn humans, DNA methylation occurs at the 5' position of the pyrimidine ring of the cytosine residues within CpG sites to form 5-methylcytosines. The presence of multiple methylated CpG sites in CpG islands of promoters causes stable inhibition (silencing) of genes. Silencing of transcription of a gene may be initiated by other mechanisms, but this is often followed by methylation of CpG sites in the promoter CpG island to cause the stable silencing of the gene.\n\nIn cancers, loss of expression of genes occurs about 10 times more frequently by transcription silencing (caused by promoter hypermethylation of CpG islands) than by mutations. As Vogelstein et al. point out, in a colorectal cancer there are usually about 3 to 6 driver mutations and 33 to 66 hitchhiker or passenger mutations. In contrast, in colon tumors compared to adjacent normal-appearing colonic mucosa, there are about 600 to 800 heavily methylated CpG islands in promoters of genes in the tumors while these CpG islands are not methylated in the adjacent mucosa.\n\nUsing gene set enrichment analysis, 569 out of 938 gene sets were hypermethylated and 369 were hypomethylated in cancers. Hypomethylation of CpG islands in promoters results in increased transcription of the genes or gene sets affected.\n\nOne study listed 147 specific genes with colon cancer-associated hypermethylated promoters and 27 with hypomethylated promoters, along with the frequency with which these hyper/hypo-methylations were found in colon cancers. At least 10 of those genes had hypermethylated promoters in nearly 100% of colon cancers. They also indicated 11 microRNAs whose promoters were hypermethylated in colon cancers at frequencies between 50% and 100% of cancers. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are small endogenous RNAs that pair with sequences in messenger RNAs to direct post-transcriptional repression. On average, each microRNA represses or inhibits transcriptional expression of several hundred target genes. Thus microRNAs with hypermethylated promoters may be allowing enhanced transcription of hundreds to thousands of genes in a cancer.\n\nFor more than 20 years, microRNAs have been known to act in the cytoplasm to degrade transcriptional expression of specific target gene messenger RNAs (see microRNA history). However, recently, Gagnon et al. showed that as many as 75% of microRNAs may be shuttled back into the nucleus of cells. Some nuclear microRNAs have been shown to mediate transcriptional gene activation or transcriptional gene inhibition.\n\nDNA repair genes are frequently repressed in cancers due to hypermethylation of CpG islands within their promoters. In head and neck squamous cell carcinomas at least 15 DNA repair genes have frequently hypermethylated promoters; these genes are \"XRCC1, MLH3, PMS1, RAD51B, XRCC3, RAD54B, BRCA1, SHFM1, GEN1, FANCE, FAAP20, SPRTN, SETMAR, HUS1,\" and \"PER1\". About seventeen types of cancer are frequently deficient in one or more DNA repair genes due to hypermethylation of their promoters. As summarized in one review article, promoter hypermethylation of the DNA repair gene \"MGMT\" occurs in 93% of bladder cancers, 88% of stomach cancers, 74% of thyroid cancers, 40%-90% of colorectal cancers and 50% of brain cancers. Promoter hypermethylation of \"LIG4\" occurs in 82% of colorectal cancers. This review article also indicates promoter hypermethylation of \"NEIL1\" occurs in 62% of head and neck cancers and in 42% of non-small-cell lung cancers; promoter hypermetylation of \"ATM\" occurs in 47% of non-small-cell lung cancers; promoter hypermethylation of \"MLH1\" occurs in 48% of squamous cell carcinomas; and promoter hypermethylation of \"FANCB\" occurs in 46% of head and neck cancers.\n\nOn the other hand, the promoters of two genes, \"PARP1\" and \"FEN1\", were hypomethylated and these genes were over-expressed in numerous cancers. \"PARP1\" and \"FEN1\" are essential genes in the error-prone and mutagenic DNA repair pathway microhomology-mediated end joining. If this pathway is over-expressed, the excess mutations it causes can lead to cancer. PARP1 is over-expressed in tyrosine kinase-activated leukemias, in neuroblastoma, in testicular and other germ cell tumors, and in Ewing's sarcoma, FEN1 is over-expressed in the majority of cancers of the breast, prostate, stomach, neuroblastomas, pancreatic, and lung.\n\nDNA damage appears to be the primary underlying cause of cancer. If accurate DNA repair is deficient, DNA damages tend to accumulate. Such excess DNA damage can increase mutational errors during DNA replication due to error-prone translesion synthesis. Excess DNA damage can also increase epigenetic alterations due to errors during DNA repair. Such mutations and epigenetic alterations can give rise to cancer (see malignant neoplasms). Thus, CpG island hyper/hypo-methylation in the promoters of DNA repair genes are likely central to progression to cancer.\n\n"}
{"id": "35347965", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35347965", "title": "Slavery in Somalia", "text": "Slavery in Somalia\n\nSlavery in Somalia existed as a part of the Arab slave trade. To meet the demand for menial labor, Bantus from southeastern Africa captured by Somali slave traders were sold in cumulatively large numbers over the centuries to customers in Somalia and other areas in Northeast Africa and Asia. People captured locally during wars and raids were also sometimes enslaved by Somalis. However, the perception, capture, treatment and duties of both groups of slaves differed markedly.\n\nBetween 2500–3000 years ago, speakers of the original proto-Bantu language group began a millennia-long series of migrations eastward from their original homeland in the general Nigeria and Cameroon area of West Africa. This Bantu expansion first introduced Bantu peoples to central, southern and southeastern Africa, regions where they had previously been absent from.\n\nThe Bantus inhabiting Somalia are descended from Bantu groups that had settled in Southeast Africa after the initial expansion from Nigeria/Cameroon, and whose members were later captured and sold into the Arab slave trade.\n\nBantus are ethnically, physically, and culturally distinct from Somalis, and they have remained marginalized ever since their arrival in Somalia.\n\nAll in all, the number of Bantu inhabitants in Somalia before the civil war is thought to have been about 80,000 (1970 estimate), with most concentrated between the Juba and Shabelle rivers in the south. However, recent estimates place the figure as high as 900,000 persons.\n\nThe Indian Ocean slave trade was multi-directional and changed over time. To meet the demand for menial labor, Bantu slaves were captured by Somali slave traders from southeastern Africa were sold in cumulatively large numbers over the centuries to customers in Egypt, Arabia, the Persian Gulf, India, the Far East, the Indian Ocean islands, Ethiopia and Somalia.\n\nFrom 1800 to 1890, between 25,000–50,000 Bantu slaves are thought to have been sold from the slave market of Zanzibar to the Somali coast. Most of the slaves were from the Majindo, Makua, Nyasa, Yao, Zalama, Zaramo and Zigua ethnic groups of Tanzania, Mozambique and Malawi. Collectively, these Bantu groups are known as \"Mushunguli\", which is a term taken from \"Mzigula\", the Zigua tribe's word for \"people\" (the word holds multiple implied meanings including \"worker\", \"foreigner\", and \"slave\").\n\nBantu adult and children slaves (referred to collectively as \"jareer\" by their Somali masters) were purchased in the slave market exclusively to do undesirable work on plantation grounds. They were made to work in plantations owned by Somalis along the southern Shebelle and Jubba rivers, harvesting lucrative cash crops such as grain and cotton. Bantu slaves toiled under the control of and separately from their Somali patrons.\n\nIn terms of legal considerations, Bantu slaves were devalued. Somali social mores strongly discouraged, censured and looked down upon any kind of sexual contact with Bantu slaves. Freedom for these plantation slaves was also often acquired through escape.\n\nAs part of a broader practice then common among slave owners in Northeast Africa, some Somali masters in the hinterland near Mogadishu reportedly used to circumcise their female slaves so as to increase the latter's perceived value in the slave market. In 1609, the Portuguese missionary João dos Santos reported that one such group had a \"custome to sew up their females, especially their slaves being young to make them unable for conception, which makes these slaves sell dearer, both for their chastitie, and for better confidence which their masters put in them.\"\n\nIn the 1940s, the first fugitive slaves from the Shebelle valley began to settle in the Jubba valley.\n\nThe Italian colonial administration abolished slavery in Somalia at the turn of the 20th century. Some Bantu groups, however, remained enslaved well until the 1930s, and continued to be despised and discriminated against by large parts of Somali society.\n\nThe Bantus were also conscripted to forced labor on Italian-owned plantations since the Somalis themselves were averse to what they deemed menial labor, and because the Italians viewed the Somalis as racially superior to the Bantu.\n\nIn the late 19th century, Somalis also captured other \"jareer\" peoples from the coastal regions of Kenya to work for them as slaves and clients. Referred to as the Kore, these Nilo-Saharan Maa-speaking Nilotes were later emancipated by British colonial troops. They subsequently resettled on the Lamu seaboard as fishermen and cultivators. Like many Bantus, the Kore reportedly now speak the Afro-Asiatic Somali language on account of their time in servitude.\n\nIn addition to Bantu plantation slaves, Somalis sometimes enslaved peoples of Oromo pastoral background that were captured during wars and raids on Oromo settlements. However, there were marked differences in terms of the perception, capture, treatment and duties of the Oromo pastoral slaves versus the Bantu plantation slaves.\n\nOn an individual basis, Oromo subjects were not viewed as racially \"jareer\" by their Somali captors. The Oromo captives also mostly consisted of young children and women, both of whom were taken into the families of their abductors; men were usually killed during the raids. Oromo boys and girls were adopted by their Somali patrons as their own children. Prized for their beauty and viewed as legitimate sexual partners, many Oromo women became either wives or concubines of their Somali captors, while others became domestic servants. In some cases, entire Oromo clans were assimilated on a client basis into the Somali clan system.\n\nNeither captured Oromo children nor women were ever required to do plantation work, and they typically worked side-by-side with the Somali pastoralists. After an Oromo concubine gave birth to her Somali patron's child, she and the child were emancipated and the Oromo concubine acquired equal status to her abductor's other Somali wives. According to the Somali Studies pioneer Enrico Cerulli, in terms of diya (blood money) payments in the Somali customary law (Xeer), the life of an Oromo slave was also equal in value to that of an ordinary ethnic Somali.\n\nFreedom for Oromo slaves was obtained through manumission and was typically accompanied by presents such as a spouse and livestock. During abolition, former Oromo slaves, who generally maintained intimate relations with the Somali pastoralists, were also spared the harsh treatment reserved for the Bantu and Nilotic plantation slaves.\n"}
{"id": "56806485", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56806485", "title": "Sophia Goulden", "text": "Sophia Goulden\n\nSophia Goulden (née Craine; 1833 – 1910) was the mother of Emmeline Pankhurst and is credited with having an important forming influence on her daughters’ political beliefs.\n\nSophia Jane Craine was born in Lonan, Isle of Man, in 1833, to William Craine and Jane (née Quine). She was baptised 3 November 1833. Although William was a shoemaker by trade, he and his wife came to manage boarding houses in Douglas, initially Tynwald House at 3 North Quay, and then at Christian Road. In her youth Sophia was described as being ‘an unusually good-looking young lady’ and it is likely that she met Robert Goulden through the boarding house, whether he visited it on business or on holiday. Six years her elder, Robert Goulden was at that time an errand boy at a Manchester manufacturers. Sophia and Robert were married on 8 September 1853 at Kirk Braddan, when Sophia was 18 and Robert 24.\n\nThe newly married couple moved to Manchester, where Robert Goulden rose to become managing director of his own manufacturing business. Although the family would visit the Isle of Man regularly through her life, it was in Manchester that Sophia had her eleven children, ten of whom survived into adulthood: Walter, Emmeline, Edmund, Mary, Herbert, Effie, Robert, Ada Sophia, Alfred Harold and Eva Gertrude.\n\nLater in her life, Emmeline was to write of her parents:‘Those men and women are fortunate who are born at a time when a great struggle for human freedom is in progress. It is an added good fortune to have parents who take a personal part in the great movements of their time. I am glad and thankful that this was my case.’Described as having ‘a bright and attractive personality,’ Sophia and her husband established themselves as members of Manchester’s ‘radical elite,’ exposing their family to radical politics and bringing them into contact with ‘the foremost intellectuals of the time.’ It was amidst this ‘atmosphere of reformist zeal’ in the Goulden household that Sophia took her eldest daughter, Emmeline, to her first suffrage meeting in around 1872. Then aged 14, Emmeline left the meeting ‘a confirmed suffragist.’ The speaker they saw that day was Lydia Becker, who was to play an important role in the Isle of Man's becoming the first country in the world to grant votes to women in 1881 (although it is not believed that either Sophia or Emmeline played an active campaigning role in this). When her children were to go on their important roles in the suffragette movement, it was reported that Sophia ‘naturally approved and was entirely in sympathy with them in the matter, and was greatly enthusiastic to secure the [UK] vote for women.’\n\nSophia kept up the connection with the Isle of Man, generally visiting the Island for their summer holidays each year throughout her life. By this time Sophia’s mother had moved to 9 Strathallan Crescent, Douglas, which was then bought by Robert Goulden in 1878. It was also here at Strathallan Crescent that Robert died on 24 April 1892, leaving Sophia to live on at the property with just her son, Walter, whose health was poor. Emmeline, Christabel and others of her family continued to visit her on the Isle of Man, until her death in 1910 at the age of 75. Having been in poor health for some months, she had ‘an attack of double pneumonia’ which led to her death at 5 o’clock on 22 April 1910 at her home.\n\nShe was buried at Braddan New Cemetery, beside her husband. She left an estate worth £789 15s 1d and a will which stated that ‘the share which any female shall take under this my will shall be for her sole and separate use independently of any husband and of his debts.’ Sophia did not live to see the success of the Suffragette movement and the enfranchisement of women in the UK, an injustice felt all the more having had the vote in the Isle of Man, as a widowed property owner, for nearly thirty years.\n\nIn 1981 Sophia Goulden, along with her daughter, Emmeline, was commemorated with a stamp issued by the Isle of Man Post Office celebrating the enfranchisement of women on the Isle of Man in 1881.\n\nIn 2016, the \"Friends of Sophia Goulden\" was established in order to 'bring Sophia's role in the history of women's suffrage to greater public attention and to raise funds to create a suitable commemorative monument to her on the island.'\n\nIn September 2018, a blue plaque in her honour was unveiled at her former home on Strathallan Crescent in Douglas on the Isle of Man where she lived at the end on her life. She was only the fourth person born on the Isle of Man to receive the honour. Her great-great-granddaughter, Helen Pankhurst said: \"Sophia's role as a campaigner in the movement, and as mother guiding the interest of her more famous daughter, have so far received insufficient recognition. The plaque can start to change this. Moreover, it's fitting that this plaque will be put up on the Isle of Man, where Sophia came from and returned to, but also the nation that led the way in giving women the right to vote.\"\n"}
{"id": "17480343", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17480343", "title": "Syrian Brazilians", "text": "Syrian Brazilians\n\nSyrian Brazilians () are Brazilian citizens of full, partial, or predominantly Syrian ancestry, or Syrian-born immigrants in Brazil.\n\nThe population of Brazil of either full or partial Syrian descent is estimated by the Brazilian government to be around 3 or 4 million people. According to research conducted by IBGE in 2008, 0.9% of White Brazilian respondents said they had familial origins from the Middle East, which equals less than 2 million people. They are mostly of Lebanese and Syrian descent.\n\n"}
{"id": "22426290", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22426290", "title": "Thorsten Sellin", "text": "Thorsten Sellin\n\nJohan Thorsten Sellin (26 October 1896 – 17 September 1994) was a Swedish American sociologist at the University of Pennsylvania, a penologist and one of the pioneers of scientific criminology.\n\nSellin was born in Örnsköldsvik in Västernorrland County, Sweden and came to Canada with his parents when he was 17 years old. He received his bachelor's degree from Augustana College in Illinois when he was 19. He went on to receive a master's degree and doctoral degree in sociology from the University of Pennsylvania.\n\nHe taught at the University of Pennsylvania from 1922 until he retired in 1967. Dr. Sellin came to prominence in the 1920s and 30s for his studies in the use of criminal statistics at local, state, national and international levels. He later helped draft the U.S. Uniform Criminal Statistics Act in 1944.\n\nAn expert on crime statistics, he advised the Federal Bureau of Investigation about statistical matters and was a consultant to the Bureau of the Census on criminal statistics. He also headed, or was a member of, various United Nations panels of experts on criminological questions. Dr. Sellin was a visiting professor or lecturer at Princeton, the University of California at Berkeley, Oxford and other universities.\n\nActive in international groups, he was secretary-general of the Bern-based International Penal and Penitentiary Commission (later called the International Penal and Penitentiary Foundation) from 1949 to 1951. He was president of the International Society of Criminology from 1956 to 1965. Sellin edited the \"Annals of the American Academy of Political and Social Science\" for 39 years, from 1929 to 1968.\n\nDr. Sellin died in Gilmanton, New Hampshire at the age of 97.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33539749", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33539749", "title": "Tonjon language", "text": "Tonjon language\n\nTonjon is an extinct Mande language once spoken by blacksmiths among the Djimini Senoufo of Ivory Coast. It was closely related to Ligbi, another blacksmith language.\n"}
{"id": "24688040", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24688040", "title": "Turks in Israel", "text": "Turks in Israel\n\nThe Turks in Israel, also referred to as Israeli Turkmen are ethnic Turkish descendants who have had a long-established presence in the region. Migration of Turkish settlers began in the 12th century, and continued throughout the Mamluk and Ottoman rule. During the British mandate of Palestine, the Turkmen lived mostly in the Jezreel Valley region; and, up until the Israeli conquest in 1967, Turkmen tribes lived in the Golan Heights. \n\nIn recent years, Turkish workers from the Republic of Turkey have settled in Israel and work predominantly on construction projects.\n\nDuring and after the Israeli War of Independence, some Turkmen fled the region and settled in Jordan, Syria, and Lebanon.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45574800", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45574800", "title": "UncommonGoods", "text": "UncommonGoods\n\nUncommonGoods, LLC is a Brooklyn-based, privately held, American online and catalog retailer, founded in 1999. The UncommonGoods website launched in July, 2000. The company sells small production gifts for children, teens, and adults, home accents, jewelry, accessories, kitchen and home entertaining items, art, games, books, food and drink, and DIY kits. About half of the assortment is handmade by independent artists and artisans, often using recycled, reclaimed, or upcycled materials.\n\nUncommonGoods was founded in 1999 by current CEO David Bolotsky, a former managing director at Goldman Sachs who headed its U.S. Retail Research Division from 1995 to 1999.\n\nIn 2007, UncommonGoods became a founding B Corp, having met B Lab's standards. Founder and CEO Bolotsky advocated for the bill that made B Corporation status legal in New York State, which was signed into law in 2012. In 2016 and 2017, UncommonGoods was honored as one of B Lab’s Best for the World in the Community category. The company gives 15% of its net proceeds to nonprofits, as certified by B Lab, and pays entry-level workers significantly more than the legal minimum wage. Bolotsky and UncommonGoods helped successfully advocate for raising the minimum wage and for paid family leave in New York State.\n\n2009-2018, Bizrate Circle of Excellence\n\n2016, 2017, B Lab Best for the World in the Community\n\n2017, City and State Responsible 100 (David Bolotsky)\n\n2018, New York Paid Family Leave Coalition Game Changer (David Bolotsky);  Forbes Small Giants: The Best Small Companies of 2018\n\n"}
{"id": "15849948", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15849948", "title": "Vietnamese Cambodians", "text": "Vietnamese Cambodians\n\nVietnamese Cambodians refer to ethnic Vietnamese living in Cambodia.According to the news said in 2017 there are 2million vietnames are living in Cambodia They mostly reside in southeastern parts of Cambodia bordering Vietnam or on boathouses in the Tonlé Sap lake and Mekong rivers. The first Vietnamese came to settle modern-day Cambodia from the early 19th century during the era of the Nguyễn lords, and most of the Vietnamese came to Cambodia during the periods of French colonial administration and the People's Republic of Kampuchea administration. During the Khmer Republic and Khmer Rouge governments in the 1970s, the Vietnamese were targets of mass genocides; thousands of Vietnamese were killed and many more sought refuge in Vietnam. Ethnic relations between the Khmers and Vietnamese are poor, and the Vietnamese have been the main target of xenophobic attacks by political parties since the 1990s. Most of the Vietnamese are stateless residents of Cambodia, and as a result they face difficulties in getting access to education, employment and housing.\n\nVietnamese settlers began to settle in modern-day Cochinchina and Ho Chi Minh City from the 1620s onwards. To the Cambodians, these lands were known as Kampuchea Krom and traditionally under the control of the Khmer Empire. From the era of Chey Chettha II onwards, they came under the control of the Nguyễn lords. In 1813, Emperor Gia Long sent 10,000 Vietnamese troops into Phnom Penh and some members of the Cambodian royal family came under the control of the Vietnamese court. The Nguyen court imposed Vietnamese customs upon the Cambodian populace, and names of towns and provinces were changed to Vietnamese ones. Vietnamese settlers were encouraged to settle in Cambodia and official documents from the Vietnamese court recorded an average of 5,000 Vietnamese settlers coming into Cambodia in the 1830s. The policies imposed by the Nguyen court stirred resentment among the Cambodian populace and provoked occasional rebellions.\n\nIn 1880, the French colonial administration to provide subject status to Vietnamese residents in Cambodia. Over the next fifty years, large numbers of Vietnamese migrated to Cambodia. Population censuses conducted by the French recorded an increase in the Vietnamese population from about 4,500 in the 1860s to almost 200,000 at the end of the 1930s. When the Japanese invaded Indochina in 1940, Vietnamese nationalists in Cambodia launched a brief but unsuccessful attempt to attack the French colonial administrators. In 1954, a citizenship law was passed on the basis of knowledge in the Khmer language and national origin, and effectively excluded most Vietnamese and Chinese Cambodians. At the grassroots level, Vietnamese also faced occasional cases of violent intimidation from the Cambodians. During a Sangkum congress in 1962, politicians debated on the issue of citizenship on Cambodia's ethnic minorities and a resolution was passed not to grant naturalization of Vietnamese residents.\n\nWhen Lon Nol assumed power in 1970, the Khmer Republic government launched a propaganda campaign to portray the ethnic Vietnamese as agents of the Vietcong. About 30,000 Vietnamese were arrested and killed in prison, while an additional 200,000 were repatriated to Vietnam. Five years later in 1975, some 200,000 to 250,000 Vietnamese remained in Cambodia when the Khmer Rouge seized power. About three quarters of them were expelled to Vietnam, and the remaining 20,000 who remained are those who are of mixed-Vietnamese and Khmer descent. Those who remained were killed by the regime. By the time Vietnamese troops entered Cambodia in 1979, virtually all of Cambodia's Vietnamese population were either displaced or killed. Vietnam established a new regime known as the People's Republic of Kampuchea (PRK), and Vietnamese advisers were appointed in the new government administration. In 1983, the PRK government formulated an official policy to encourage former Vietnamese residents of Cambodia to return and settle down. Vietnamese immigrants who had no family ties to Cambodia also came to settle in the country, as there was little border control to limit Vietnamese migrants from entering the country. The Vietnamese were recognised as an official minority under the PRK regime, and Overseas Vietnamese Associations were established in parts of Cambodia with sizeable Vietnamese populations. The PRK government also identity cards were issued to them until the withdrawal of Vietnamese troops in 1990.\n\nVietnamese migrant workers started to arrive from 1992 onwards due to the creation of new job opportunities by the UNTAC administration. At the same time, the UNTAC administration allowed the opening of political offices and political parties such as FUNCINPEC and the BLDP began to propagate anti-Vietnamese sentiments among the populace to shore up electorate support in the 1993 general elections. In November 1992, the Khmer Rouge which controlled northwestern parts of Cambodia, passed a resolution to target systematic killings of Vietnamese soldiers and civilians. The first guerrilla-style attacks by the Khmer Rouge on Vietnamese civilians started in December 1992, and Khmer Rouge soldiers justified the killings by claiming that some of the civilians were Vietnamese soldiers in disguise. The spate of killings by Khmer Rouge prompted some 21,000 ethnic Vietnamese to flee to Vietnam in March 1993.\n\nIn August 1994, the National Assembly of Cambodia introduced an immigration law which authorises the deportation of illegal immigrants. The UNHCR perceived the law as targeting Vietnamese migrants in Cambodia, and the Cambodian government later stepped in to assure that no mass deportations of Vietnamese refugees would be implemented. The Khmer Rouge continued to carry out sporadic attacks on Vietnamese civilians until they surrendered in 1999. Ethnic Vietnamese continue to face discrimination from Cambodian society, and encountered physical intimidation from society and government authorities especially during the general elections or when disputes between Cambodia and Vietnam arise.\n\nThe Vietnamese are generally concentrated along the river banks of the Tonlé Sap lake and Mekong river which encompass the provinces of Siem Reap, Kampong Chhnang and Pursat. Smaller populations may be found in Phnom Penh as well as southeastern provinces bordering Vietnam, namely Prey Veng, Svay Rieng, Kampot, Kandal, Kratié and Takeo. The Vietnamese population was at its largest in 1962 when the government census showed that they were the country's largest minority and reflected 3.8% of the country's population. Demographic researchers returned higher estimated numbers of Vietnamese than government censuses reflect. For example, in the 1960s, the number of resident Vietnamese may be as high as 400,000, while another Cambodian-based researcher, Michael Vickery had estimated the Vietnamese resident population to be between 200,000 and 300,000 in 1986. On the other hand, government censuses conducted during the 1980s put the figures to be no more than 60,000. The following population figures shows population figures of ethnic Vietnamese based on figures derived from government censuses:\n\nThe Vietnamese identify themselves as adherents of Mahayana Buddhism, Cao Đài or Roman Catholicism. Vietnamese Buddhists are mainly found among impoverished communities living in the Tonle Sap or the rural parts of Cambodia. As Vietnamese Buddhists derive their religious doctrines and beliefs from Chinese folk religion, they participate in religious rituals organised by Chinese Cambodians during festive seasons. Vietnamese communities that have settled down in Cambodia have adopted Khmer Theravada Buddhist practices to some extent. Vietnamese adherents of Roman Catholicism consist of descendants of refugees that fled the religious persecution during the reign of Tự Đức. They are split between city dwellers based in Phnom Penh and fishing communities that are based in Tonle Sap. Vietnamese Catholics make up about 90% of Cambodia's Roman Catholic community, and in the 1960s they had about 65,000 adherents in the country. Most of the Vietnamese Catholics were either deported to Vietnam or killed in March 1970, and it was only in 1990 that the Catholic church was allowed to re-establish itself in Cambodia. In 2005, there were about 25,000 Catholics in the country.\n\nA minority of Vietnamese are also followers of the Cao Đài faith which was introduced in 1927. The Cao Đài faith attracted both Vietnamese and Cambodian adherents within the first few years of its founding, but a royal decree which outlawed the religion and efforts by Cambodian nationalists to prosecute Khmer adherents led to Cao Dai being observed solely by Vietnamese from the 1930s onwards. A Cao Đài temple was built in Mao Tse Tung Boulevard in 1937, and in the 1960s there were about 70,000 adherents in Cambodia. Cao Đài was outlawed during the Khmer Republic and Khmer Rouge regimes, but regained official recognition in 1985 and has about 2,000 adherents in 2000.\n\nThe Vietnamese as a whole exhibit varying levels of fluency in the Khmer and Vietnamese languages. Vietnamese that live in self-contained fishing communities along the Tonle Sap use Vietnamese in their day-to-day conversations and have individuals that have limited Khmer language skills and those that are bilingual in both languages. On the other hand, Vietnamese that live in predominantly Khmer-speaking neighbourhoods send their children to public schools, and as a result the children are able to speak Khmer fluently but show very limited understanding of Vietnamese.\n\nField research carried out by ethnologists such as Stefan Ehrentraut shows that only a minority of Vietnamese children attend public schools, with figures varying across different provinces. In Kampong Chhnang and Siem Reap where the Vietnamese live along the river banks, enrolment into public schools fare below 10%, whereas in other provinces such as Kampot and Kratie the proportion are higher. As the majority of Vietnamese do not carry citizenship papers, they were unable to enrol their children into public schools. For those who send their children to schools, most of them only attend school for a few years and seldom complete Grade 12 as Vietnamese parents were unable to afford school fees. Vietnamese students also faced difficulties in academic work, as classes are taught exclusively in the Khmer language, and Vietnamese children that grew up speaking Vietnamese at home have limited competency in Khmer. In some Vietnamese communities based in the Tonle Sap and Mekong rivers, there are private schools that are run by Vietnamese community associations and Christian organisations. The private schools cater the teaching of the Vietnamese language, and are mostly attended by children of impoverished families.\n\nDuring the French colonial administration, educated Vietnamese were employed in the civil service administration as secretaries, clerks and bureaucrats. When Cambodia gained independence in 1953, the Sihanouk-led government phased out most of the Vietnamese civil servants with Cambodians, and they sought employment in banks and commercial enterprises as secretaries and other office-based positions. In the 1960s, urban-dwelling Vietnamese with lower education backgrounds also worked as mechanics in car repair and machine shops owned by Chinese businessmen. Vietnamese immigrants that settled in the countryside worked as fishermen along the Tonle Sap lake and Mekong river, and also as rubber plantation workers in Kampong Cham and Kratie provinces.\n\nAs most Vietnamese are stateless residents, they seek a living through ad-hoc various industries such as the construction, recycling and prostitution industries or as street pedlars. Vietnamese that live along the Tonle Sap lake and Mekong rivers are subsistence fishermen. A sizeable number of these stateless Vietnamese consisted of migrants that came to Cambodia between 1992 and 1993 during the UNTAC administration. The majority of Vietnamese still live below the poverty line, although a very small number of Vietnamese are represented in the Cambodian business sector. One example is Sok Kong, the head of the business conglomerate Sokimex which owns state concessionaires in the country's petroleum, tourism and entrepot industries.\n\nAlmost 90% of ethnic Vietnamese are stateless residents of Cambodia, and do not carry citizenship papers such as identity cards or birth certificates. The 1996 Cambodian law on nationality technically permits Vietnamese residents born in Cambodia to take up citizenship, but faced resistance from mid-ranking interior ministry officials who generally refrain from registering Vietnamese residents due to concerns of political implications from opposition parties if citizenship were to be granted. A minority of Vietnamese residents were able to obtain citizenship only after paying bribes to interior ministry officials, or were married to Khmer spouses. The minority of Vietnamese residents who hold citizenship reported of interior ministry officials confiscating their citizenship papers. As a result, the Vietnamese faced legal restrictions from getting access to public healthcare, education, employment and buying land for housing as the majority do not carry Cambodian citizenship. Stateless Vietnamese built floating settlements in-lieu of buying land-based dwellings which require citizenship papers. According to field research carried out by Cambodia's Minority Rights Organisation, interior ministry officials would confront Vietnamese fishermen in the Tonle Sap and demand bribes in order to allow them to carry out fishing.\n\nEthnic Khmers have a poor perception of the Vietnamese community, due to persistent feelings of communal animosity from the past history of Vietnamese rule over Cambodia. In 1958, a survey conducted by Donald Willmott upon high school students in Phnom Penh showed that relations with Chinese were generally rated as friendly, whereas Khmer students viewed their Vietnamese classmates with suspicion. Relations between the Vietnamese and Chinese are considerably better, as both ethnic groups share a close cultural affinity. Chinese males sometimes take Vietnamese wives, particularly in Phnom Penh and eastern parts of the country where there are large Chinese and Vietnamese communities. In recent years, field research carried out by Ehrentraut in 2013 suggested that ethnic relations between Vietnamese have deteriorated not only with the ethnic Khmer, but also with the Cham and Chinese Cambodians.\n\nMost Vietnamese are unrepresented in the Cambodian commune councils as they lack Cambodian citizenship. According to respondents from Ehrentraut's field research, the majority of Cambodian commune chiefs and officials express support in excluding Vietnamese representatives from getting citizenship and participating in commune elections and meetings due to contempt. The Vietnamese appoint their own village heads, and convey community concerns Vietnamese community associations (Vietnamese: Tổng hội người Campuchia gốc Việt) that was first established in 2003. The community associations own limited assets and obtains funding from membership fees, donations from the Vietnamese embassy in Cambodia and sale of cemetery land from the Vietnamese communities. The funds are subsequently used to address Vietnamese communal concerns which includes supporting religious places of worship and teaching of the Vietnamese language, as well as providing assistance to disadvantaged families. While the community associations have the tacit support of the Vietnamese community, the majority do not accept membership for fear of getting social stigma from mainstream Cambodian society. As of 2013, branches of these associations are established in 19 out of 23 provinces across Cambodia.\n\nThe issue of Vietnamese presence in Cambodia has been used as a topic by political parties to shore up electorate support since the 1993 general elections. Mainstream political parties that participated in the 1993 election included FUNCINPEC, BLDP and MOLINAKA, and they broached on topics concerning the presence of Cambodia's Vietnamese population and perceived Vietnamese interference in the government during campaign trails. These political parties also charged that the presence of Vietnamese in the country were the cause of economic failures, and promises were made to expel the Vietnamese in the situation that they win the elections. During this same period of time, the Khmer Rouge which has earlier refused to participate in the elections also espoused similar anti-Vietnamese sentiments with mainstream political parties albeit on a more extreme form. The Khmer Rouge would issue statements and radio broadcasts accusing UNTAC of collaborating with Vietnam, and called for expulsion of the Vietnamese population through force. They would follow up with attacks upon Vietnamese civilians, which continued even after the end of the 1993 elections.\n\nWhen the 1998 general elections were held, FUNCINPEC and the then-newly formed Sam Rainsy Party repeated the use of anti-Vietnamese rhetoric in their campaigns. The leaders of these two parties, Norodom Ranariddh and Sam Rainsy charged that some stateless Vietnamese had bribed state officials to obtain citizenship and the Vietnamese government still maintained political influence over the ruling party, the Cambodian People's Party. At the same time, number of incidences of violent attacks against Vietnamese civilians rose, which are carried out by both the Khmer Rouge remnants and Cambodian civilians alike. The number of politically motivated acts of violence against Vietnamese civilians reduced after 2000, and in the subsequent 2003 and 2008 general elections opposition political parties the use of anti-Vietnamese rhetoric was also reduced. In October 2009, Sam Rainsy charged Vietnam of encroaching into Cambodian territory in their border demarcation exercise, and led a group of activists to uproot Cambodian-Vietnamese border posts in Svay Rieng. Although Sam Rainsy was sentenced to imprisonment in absentia over this incident, the incident became a major focus in electoral campaigns by the Cambodia National Rescue Party (CNRP) for the 2013 general elections. CNRP leaders also stoked claims on historical ties of Kampuchea Krom, and led to more anti-Vietnamese sentiments among CNRP supporters. When the CNRP narrowly lost the 2013 elections, they launched a series of anti-government protests between 2013-2014 which resulted in incidents of Vietnamese shops in Phnom Penh being ransacked. \nThe vast majority of the Vietnamese support the CPP, and those who carry Cambodian citizenship would vote for the party. Vietnamese support for the CPP has mostly driven by strong anti-Vietnamese sentiments from other political parties. Although many members within the rank and file of the CPP share anti-Vietnamese sentiments with other political parties, the CPP maintained an openly neutral stance towards the Vietnamese community. According to Ehrentraut, the CPP's neutral stance was a balance between not providing open support for the Vietnamese community, which would have the potential effect of losing electoral votes to other political parties, while at the same time maintaining close ties with the Vietnamese government which the CPP had historical ties dating back to 1979. Vietnamese who hold Cambodian citizenship have also expressed fear over physical insecurity during election periods, which is most apparent during the 1993 and 2013 elections when Vietnamese civilians faced physical intimidation from the Khmer Rouge and CNRP supporters respectively and have abstained from participating in elections.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4487361", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4487361", "title": "Volunteers for Economic Growth Alliance", "text": "Volunteers for Economic Growth Alliance\n\nVolunteers for Economic Growth Alliance (VEGA) is an umbrella group consisting of 23 economic development organizations that integrate highly skilled volunteers into programs. VEGA is usually contracted by United States Agency for International Development (USAID) for specific projects that involve one or more of the Member organizations. The organization is headquartered in Washington, DC and its members have offices around the world in developing/transitioning economies where USAID operates.\n\nThese are all typically US-based, economic development NGOs.\n"}
{"id": "25889851", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25889851", "title": "William Kampiles", "text": "William Kampiles\n\nWilliam Peter Kampiles (born December 21, 1954) is a former Central Intelligence Agency employee during the Cold War.\n\nKampiles was born into an immigrant family. Kampiles grew up in Hegewisch, on the far south side of Chicago. Kampiles' family was poor and lived in a small rental apartment. Kampiles had dreams of becoming wealthy.\n\nKampiles was disappointed with his low-ranking status as a CIA clerk, and he decided to steal a top-secret KH-11 spy satellite manual from his employers in 1977 for monetary gain. In November 1977, Kampiles resigned from his job from CIA in Langley, Virginia. \n\nKampiles flew to Greece, and sold the manual to the Soviet embassy in Athens in return for $3,000. Kampiles subsequently returned to the United States and informed his former CIA bosses of what he had done, in the mistaken belief that he would be recruited as a double agent; instead, he was charged with espionage by the US Government, put on trial in 1978, and convicted. He was arrested before he could leave the country with his mother. He had told friends he had plans to buy a restaurant/bar in Athens and had purchased tickets for himself and his mother. He was originally sentenced on November 17, 1978, to 40 years imprisonment; however, his prison sentence was later reduced to 19 years, and he was released on 16 December 1996, after serving 18 years as Federal Prison inmate \"04028-164\".\n\n\n"}
