{"id": "3705910", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3705910", "title": "1999 Pakistani coup d'état", "text": "1999 Pakistani coup d'état\n\nThe 1999 Pakistani coup d'état was a bloodless coup d'état in which the Pakistan Army and then-Chief of Army Staff and Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Committee, General Pervez Musharraf, seized the control of the civilian government of publicly elected Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif on 12 October 1999. Two days into seizing the government, on 14 October 1999, General Musharraf, who then-acted as the country's Chief Executive, declared a state of emergency by issuing a Provisional Constitutional Order that suspended the writ of the Constitution of Pakistan.\n\nThe martial law occurred due to meltdown of civil-military relations and the simmering tensions between the Prime Minister Sharif and Chairman joint chiefs General Musharraf as Sharif attempted to relieve General Musharraf of his command, who was en route to Pakistan from Sri Lanka after paying an official visit. Instead, General Ziauddin Butt, then-DG ISI, was appointed army chief and the Joint Staff HQ refused to follow the orders of new army chief and the commanders of the decided to defend General Musharraf by having launched an order to arrest and detained to pre-empt Pakistani spymaster Ziauddin Butt from taking the control of the military. The pace of the coup startled the observers, within 17 hours, from attempting to relieve General Musharraf by Prime Minister Sharif, the army commanders took control of all key government secretariats throughout the country while placing the Prime Minister Sharif and his civilian cabinet, including his brother under house arrest. The military police took control of the state broadcaster, radio, and the entire critical communications infrastructure and announced that Nawaz Sharif had been dismissed.\n\nThe Supreme Court of Pakistan led by Chief Justice Saeeduzzaman Siddiqui validated the martial law in a view of \"doctrine of necessity\" but provided its legality only limited to three years. Meanwhile, Sharif was trialed by the judge advocate general court and convicted him for risking the life of all the passengers on board including the sitting Chairman joint chiefs. The military court later in their findings decided that all allegations are fact based and Sharif was actually involved in aerial hijacking and it was he, who ordered, the Pakistan CAA for not letting the plane land on Pakistani soil; eventually, the judge advocate general awarding Sharif the life imprisonment.\n\nWhen the decision was announced, it sparked fury in Sharif's PML(N) but welcomed by many of his political opponents. By mid-November 1999, a petition was filed by the PML(N)'s leadership, challenging the legality of the coup, proclamation of state emergency, and demanding the release of Sharif as well as reinstating the writ of the constitution. In 2000, the Supreme Court of Pakistan led by Chief Justice Saeeduzzaman Siddiqui viewed this coup as a \"violation of constitution\" and subsequently resigned, only to be replaced by acting Chief Justice Irshad Hasan who acted towards validating the coup as constitutional after hearing the case.\n\nOn 10 December 2000, Chief Executive Pervez Musharraf unexpectedly issued a pardon of Nawaz Sharif and allowed the immediate members of former to travel to Saudi Arabia on a private jet provided by the Saudi Royal Family. In 2016, Musharraf later confessed in an interview given to Kamran Shahid of \"Dunya\" that \"he pardoned Nawaz Sharif from life imprisonment on the request of King Abdullah and Rafic Hariri.\"\n\nIn 2001, General Musharraf issued the executive decree and eventually forced President Rafiq Tarar to resign in order for General Musharraf to assume the presidency. In the light of Supreme Court's verdict, the national referendum was held on 30 April 2002, allowing himself to continue his rule. The controversial referendum, which Musharraf won with almost 98% of the votes in his favour, was alleged by many, including the Human Rights Commission of Pakistan, to be fraudulent. In 2002, the general elections restored the democracy when the Musharraf-backed PML(Q), the libertarians, were able to form the minority government who would later nominate General Musharraf's for the presidential elections held in 2004. In 2007, President Musharraf eventually imposed another martial law by having suspend the populist Chief Justice IM Chaudhry, leveling charges on corruption and misconduct. Unlike the earlier martial law, Musharraf was widely disapproved, inviting the mass demonstration led by Nawaz Sharif, and eventually resigned in an attempt to avoid impeachment in the Parliament.\n\nIn 2009, the Supreme Court acquitted Sharif of hijacking case and quoted that: \"Mr. Sharif had neither used force nor ordered its use or employed deceitful mean.\" In 2014, Sharif was also acquitted from money laundering and corruption cases from an accountability court.\n\nAccording to the historian, Mazhar Aziz, the 1999 coup d'état in Pakistan makes a \"striking example in the case study of civil military relations\" in a post–Cold War era.\n\nIn 1997, Nawaz Sharif and his conservative Pakistan Muslim League-N won a landslide victory in the general elections, resulting in a two-thirds majority in the National Assembly– the lower house of bicameral Parliament of Pakistan.\n\nHis second tenure was marked with serious legal confrontation with the Supreme Court courted by Chief Justice Sajjad Ali Shah over the legality and technicality of Thirteenth Amendment and the Ehtesab Act, 1997 (lit. Accountability Act, 1997). Chief Justice Shah had been battling in the Supreme Court for his legitimacy due to many senior justices had seen his appointment as \"inappropriate and political\", having being appointed by former Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto in 1994. On 29 October 1997, Chief Justice Shah and his bench decided to hear the petition filed by the Pakistan Peoples Party's lawyers and suspended the implementation of bills. Prime Minister Sharif reacted angrily by the Court's actions, issuing an intemperate public diatribe particularly against Chief Justice Shah. On 2 November 1997, Chief Justice Shah summoned Prime Minister Sharif for contempt of court but this order was viewed \"null and voided\" when two senior justices at the Supreme Court issued a counter-order. On 30 November 1997, Prime Minister Sharif appeared before the Supreme Court but his partisans stormed the Supreme Court Building forcing Chief Justice Shah to remove the finding of contempt against Sharif. While the Police gained control of the situation to restore law and order, the whole nation witnessed traumatizing and terrifying scenes on their television screens broadcast by the news media all over the country.\n\nSubsequently, the Supreme Judicial Council took up a case against the appointment of Chief Justice Shah on 23 December and declared Chief Justice Shah's appointment \"illegal and unconstitutional\" that eventually forced him to resign from his office on 2 December 1997. President Farooq Leghari who supported the cause of Chief Justice Shah also had to resign when army chief General Jehangir Karamat and Chairman joint chiefs Air Chief Marshal Feroze Khan intervened to resolve the crises. Prime Minister Sharif eventually appointed his Chief Justice Saeeduzzaman Siddiqui based on merit qualification and offered presidency to former supreme court justice Rafiq Tarar who was elected in 1998.\n\nIn 1998, Prime Minister Sharif effectively relieved Chairman joint chief General Jehangir Karamat from the command of the military when General Karamat delivered a college lecture at the Naval War College in Karachi. At this lecture, General Karamat called for establishing the National Security Council (NSC) which would be backed by a \"team of civil-military experts\" for devising policies to seek resolution ongoing problems relating the civil-military issues; also recommended a \"neutral but competent bureaucracy and administration of at federal level and the establishment of Local governments in four provinces.\n\nRelieving of General Karamat plummeted Sharif's own public approvals and his relations with the military, as even his senior Cabinet ministers were in disagreement of Sharif's decision. Many political observers were taken in complete surprise since the dismissal of four-star rank general was never happened before in country's short history.\n\nEventually, Sharif chose then-Lieutenant-General Pervez Musharraf over two senior army generals for the appointment to post of the army chief and acting Chairman joint chiefs. A year later, the civil military relations took a sharp turn in the opposition of Sharif when he invited and received Indian Prime Minister Atal Vajpayee in Lahore for peace talks, much to agitation of General Musharraf who did not welcome outcomes of Lahore Summit.\n\nIn 1999, the Pakistan Army soldiers secretly crossed the Line of Control (LoC) and infiltrated in Kargil on the direct orders issues by General Musharraf, bringing the two nations at the brink of war. The Indian Army reacted with launching of full-fledged military coordinated military operations while Indian government effectively put diplomatic pressure of Sharif's government to withdraw the soldiers from the Kargil sector. Both Sharif and General Musharraf held each other responsible for the actions in the Kargil, charging each other of lying and hiding details of war to the nation.\n\nAt the public circle, Sharif assigned blame for the political/diplomatic disaster on General Musharraf, and Musharraf placing the blame of disaster on Prime Minister Sharif. On September 1999, General Musharraf forcefully retired Lieutenant-General Tariq Pervez who was known to be close to Sharif and cousin of Raja Nadir Pervez, the Communication minister.\n\nUpon meeting with Sharif, General Tariq Pervez had ultimately warned Sharif of \"making any move against General Musharraf or the army would strike.\"\n\nThe revolt of Admiral Fasih Bokhari, the Chief of Naval Staff, over Sharif's public decision of extending General Musharraf's tenure as chairman joint chiefs until 2001 was another issue that saw the breaking down of civil military relations. About the Kargil war, Admiral Bokhari was not of the view of supporting Pakistan Army's engagement with Indian Army as appropriate and subsequently lodged a powerful protest against General Musharraf's grand strategy while recommending the constitution of a Commission to completely probe the Kargil issue.\n\nAt the country's news media, Admiral Bokhari publicly questioned the effectiveness of the military strategy behind the Kargil infiltration and was very critical of General Musharraf's unilateral decisions involving the national security, as chairman joint chiefs, without considering the opinions of chiefs of staff of air force and the navy.\n\nIn 1999, Sharif quarrelled with Admiral Bokhari and his Navy NHQ staff over the merit-based appointment of General Musharraf to the Chairman Joint Chiefs that was only meant to be temporary and it was hoped that Admiral Bokhari would be appointed to the post. On August 1999, there were rising tensions between Admiral Bokhari and Prime Minister Sharif over issue of incident took place in Sir Creek, although both had kept the working relations on good terms.\n\nOn September 1999, General Musharraf had sent a message Prime Minister Sharif that \"anyone in the Navy and Air Force can become the Chairman Joint Chiefs as I did not care.\" General Musharraf reportedly backed Admiral Bokhari's bid for the Chairman Joint Chiefs but he was oversaw by the Prime Minister who confirmed and extended General Musharraf's term until 2001.\n\nThe civil-military relations were further damaged when Admiral Bokhari lodged a strong protest against this decision in the news media and reportedly revolted against Prime Minister Sharif's appointment for the Chairman joint chiefs in 1999. Admiral Bokhari abruptly tendered his resignation to the Prime Minister Sharif and noted to Sharif that since General Musharraf was his junior and often referred to him as \"Sir.\"\n\nOn 5 October 1999, Admiral Bokhari resigned from the command of the Navy as the news media construed Admiral Bokhari's resignation merely as unhappiness over not being appointed as Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Committee. Admiral Bokhari's revolt saw the meltdown of the civil-military relations between the elected civilian government and the military leaders that eventually led to the military overtaking the civilian government by dismissing Prime Minister Sharif on 12 October 1999.\n\nIn the aftermath of the Kargil War, followed by the Atlantique incident, there were widespread rumors and media speculations in the television news media about the either possible military takeover or resignation of General Musharraf on September 1999.\n\nOn October 1999, General Musharraf paid an official visit to Sri Lanka on an invitation of Sri Lankan Army Commander Lieutenant-General C. S. Weerasooriya. Ultimately, Prime Minister Sharif dismissed General Musharraf from the command of the military and nominated Lieutenant-General Ziauddin Butt, the DG ISI, over several army officers on 12 October 1999. Developments came when General Musharraf, alongside with Major-General Tariq Majid and Brigadier Nadeem Taj, returned to Pakistan boarded on a PIA 777-200.\n\nAccording to the sources, the Civil Aviation Authority (CAA) was ordered by Sharif to divert the plane to India but then it was rerouted to Nawabshah. When this was failed to comprehend by the pilot, the CAA was ordered to close the runways by turning off the edge lights at the Jinnah International Airport in an attempt to refuse the landing. The units of military police led by Lieutenant-General Muzaffar Usmani sealed the civilian airport and seized the control of the control tower, allowing the plane to land on a runway. The military police seized the control of the state-run media television headquarters and encircled the Prime Minister Secretariat building while gaining control of the international airports and cutting off the international phone lines.\n\nThere were four army generals who were central in staging the coup against Sharif's government that included General Musharraf Aziz Khan, Mahmood Ahmad and Shahid Aziz. They played a crucial role in installing General Musharraf as Chief Executive while they detained Sharif in a local prison. On 14 October 1999, Musharraf appeared on television to declare a state of emergency and issued a Provisional Constitutional Order that ultimately suspended the writ of the Constitution of Pakistan and dissolved the National Assembly and , although they left Muhammad Rafiq Tarar in office as President.\n\nHowever, General Musharraf strongly objected the wordage use of \"martial law\" or \"coup d'état\", instead insisting that: \"This is not martial law, only another path towards democracy.\" The ISPR also confirmed that \"here is no martial law in the country.\"\n\nSoon after taking over the country, emergency was declared in the country. Following is the text of the Proclamation of Emergency declared by Musharraf:\n\nFollowing is the text of Provisional Constitutional Order (PCO) promulgated by Musharraf. After its proclamation, the order was modified on multiple occasions:\n\nUpon hearing the news of Sharif's arrest, the PML(N) partisans and the party leadership led by Javed Has in Lahore and Mamnoon Hussain in Karachi called out and led massive street demonstrations and protests in the streets of Lahore, Karachi, and other cities. The conservative supporters of Nawaz Sharif did not welcome this coup and saw this event as a conspiracy but many of Sharif's rivals welcome this coup, eventually holding celebration parties around different parts of the country. Although, there were reports of unconfirmed media blackout of Sharif-aligned conservative media but no restrictions were imposed on the liberal/libertarian news media.\n\nThere were reports of repression and human rights abuse taken place by the authorities under General Musharraf, as the pro-democracy demonstrations were forcefully and effectively crushed by Musharraf's regime.\n\nThe Supreme Court of Pakistan courted by the Chief Justice Saeeduzzaman Siddiqui partially provided the legality of the martial law in a view of \"doctrine of necessity\" after Musharraf's lawyer Sharifuddin Pirzada argued for the martial law on technicality, but its legality was only limited to three years. Meanwhile, Sharif was tried by the military judge advocate general where allegations of corruption, terrorism, and money laundering were leveled against him. Eventually, the military court's inconclusive rulings found him to be guilty and convicted him for risking the life of all the passengers on board including the sitting Chairman joint chiefs.\n\nOn 15 November 1999, the Supreme Court of Pakistan decided to hear the petitions filed by PML-N's lawyer Zafar Ali Shah on behalf of Sharif and Aitzaz Ahsan requesting a supreme court's intervention to declare the military takeover \"illegal and unconstitutional\", and order the restoration of Sharif's government and reinstatement of the National Assembly and four provincial assemblies that were suspended. The PML(N)'s lawyers began their court battle with the Musharraf's lawyers when additional petitions were filed by PML(N), Muslim Welfare Movement, and Wahabul Khairi, an advocate challenging the legality of the coup.\n\nOn 1 December 1999, a five-member bench of Supreme Court was constituted to hear these appeals and as lawyers of each side to present cases of their clients. The bench headed by Chief Justice Saeeduzzaman Siddiqui and head Justice Bashir Jahangiri, Justice Nasir Aslam Zahid, Justice Abdur Rehman Khan and Justice Wajihuddin Ahmed as other members.\n\nAs the hearing progressed at the Supreme Court, the legality and legitimacy of the coup became an important issue while Sharif's lawyers successfully argued for reinstating the writ of the constitution. Chief Justice Saeeduzzaman Siddiqui alongside with other chief justices were in clear view of this coup as a \"violation of constitution\" as Sharif's lawyers made a ground base for finding Musharraf of treason.\n\nOn 26 January 2000, Chief Executive Musharraf, acting on the advice of Sharifuddin Pirzada, quickly promulgated the Provisional Constitutional Order and asked Chief Justice Siddiqui alongside other justices to take a new oath under this provision. Chief Justice Saeeduzzaman Siddiqui and other nine judges of the thirteen Supreme Court justices refused to take oath which became an issue identified as the \"biggest challenge\" to the new government. Eventually, Chief Justice Saeeduzzaman Siddiqui and other nine judges resigned from their respected appointments, followed by number of other High Court justices also refused to take the oath. The Provisional Constitutional Order disallowed challenging any actions made by the military led by General Musharraf, and many judges who refused to take the oath cited infringements upon the judiciary system such as this as their reasoning for refusing. The Provisional Constitutional Order provided Musharraf a legal protection of his actions in regards to the military taker over and bared any court in the country for taking any legal actions against Musharraf or those who were responsible for the military coup.\n\nAsma Jahangir, a Pakistani lawyer and human rights advocate, reportedly quoted: \"The military rulers are doing their best to erode the independence of the judiciary. I salute those judges who have refused to take the oath.\"\n\nOn 09/10 December 2000, Chief Executive Pervez Musharraf unexpectedly issued a pardon of Nawaz Sharif and allowed the immediate members of former to traveled to Saudi Arabia on a private jet provided by the Saudi Royal Family. Details were soon emerge in successive years of this pardon that resulted in a forced sign an agreement that put him in exile for a decade. However, this agreement was voided in successive years when Musharraf himself went to court to bared Sharif from returning to Pakistan in 2007.\n\nIn 2016, Musharraf later confessed in an interview given to Kamran Shahid of \"Dunya\" that \"he pardoned Nawaz Sharif from life imprisonment on the request of King Abdullah and Rafic Hariri.\"\n\nOn 12 May 2000, the Supreme Court of Pakistan courted by Chief Justice Irshad Hasan finally legalized the coup but ordering to hold a nationwide elections to restore the writ of the government.\n\nIn 2001, General Musharraf issued the executive decree and, in which, President Tarar was of the view that such decree was unconstitutional and illegal. Eventually, Musharraf forcefully removed President from his office when the latter forced President Tarar to forcefully resigned from the president. In the light of Supreme Court's verdict, the national referendum was held on 30 April 2002, allowing himself to continue his rule. The referendum, which Musharraf won with almost 98% of the votes in his favour, was alleged by many, including the Human Rights Commission of Pakistan, to be fraudulent.\n\nThe Right groups such as Amnesty International Pakistan and Human Rights Commission and others had denounced the referendum as extremely fraudulent in 2002. The \"Reuters\" journalists claimed to see ballot stuffing and pressure to vote being placed on governmental employees. Ibn Abdur Rehman, director of the Human Rights Commission, dismissed the referendum as \"farcical\", also claiming that votes were stuffed. The Amnesty International Pakistan and the Human Rights Commission of Pakistan stated that the voting irregularities \"exceeded its worst fears\".\n\nThe PML(N), backed by the Human Rights Commission, challenged the results of the referendum but Chief Justice Irshad Hasan Khan dismissed the petitions while rejecting the challenge and upholding the results. Information Minister Nisar Memon dismissed allegations of fraud as propaganda created by the opposition and stated that \"Those who opposed the referendum preferred to stay at home and didn't create any problem.\"\n\nCredibility of the claims of illegitimacy is added when American Pattan Development Organization conducted a gallup survey that founded that the \"people are likely to \nelect either Benazir Bhutto or Nawaz Sharif as the next prime minister\" in preference to President General Pervez Musharraf. According to the survey, Musharraf had only 9% public approval as opposed to Benazir Bhutto and Nawaz Sharif.\n\nIn 1999, Tariq Pervez, the FIA agent, had ultimately warned Nawaz Sharif of military take over if Musharraf was dismissed from the command of the military. In the television news media and the political pundits had long speculating of military takeover in the country as soon as General Karamat was dismissed by Prime Minister Sharif, and General Musharraf himself had sent a secret message of serious repercussion if he was to be removed. It is claimed by authors that Prime Minister Sharif had well political intelligence on Musharraf's intention and had sought US President Bill Clinton's helped against the military intervention.\n\nIn 1999, Benazir Bhutto held all blames on Nawaz Sharif of the military takeover and criticized him of \"the man is violating every rule of law and, there is no-one to stop him.\"\n\nIn 2002, Admiral Bokhari quoted that: he knew about General Musharraf’s plans to topple [Prime Minister] Nawaz Sharif and did not want to be part of these \"Dirty Games\". Admiral Bokhari also noted that a power struggle between an elected Prime Minister and appointed-Chairman joint chiefs ensued and relations were severely damaged after the Kargil war.\n\nAdmiral Bokhari testified in media that:\"The two men could not work together, both were preparing to take active actions against each other. I could see that there now two centers of power on a collision course\". At an informal meeting held at the Navy NHQ in September 1999, Chairman joint chiefs General Musharraf indicated his displeasure with Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif's handling of the country describing Prime Minister Sharif as \"incompetent and incapable of running the country.\" Admiral Bokhari firmly got the impression whether General Musharraf was sounding out to rely on the support from the Navy in an events of the coup and Admiral Bokhara discouraged the Chairman joint chiefs from doing so.\n\nIn 2003, Musharraf squarely blamed Nawaz Sharif for the military take over and held responsible for the martial law against his government while accused him of being an autocrat and weakening the might of the military.\n\nIn a views of historian, Mazhar Aziz, the military coup d'état is seen as an \"striking example in the case study of civil military relations\" in a post–Cold War era.\n\nIn 1999 and in 2004, Sharif extended his apologizes to various journalists and reporters for any wrongdoings and worked towards mending better relations with influential conservative news media after his exile. In 2001, the PML(N) and its rival PPP reached a compromised when the formed democracy restoration alliance in a view to oust President Musharraf. Major agitations took place in 2005 against President Musharraf's anti-terrorism policy and controversial amendments made in the constitution. In 2006, Sharif joins hand with Benazir Bhutto in opposition to Musharraf when both signed an agreement to restore parliamentary democracy in the country.\n\nIn 2006, the PML(N) issued a white paper concerning the Kargil events and Nawaz Sharif personally apologized to former Chief Justice Sajad Ali Shah and the former president Farooq Leghari for his role and his party's actions. Sharif also extended his apology to General Karamat and Admiral Fasih Bokhari for overlooking him for the appointment of the Chairman joint chiefs.\n\nIn 2007, Nawaz Sharif with his family, accompanied by his daughter, returned to Pakistan with thousands of his supporters receiving Sharif family. In 2008, Sharif spearheaded the judicial activism in order to protest the suspension of Chief Justice I.M. Chaudhry by Musharraf.\n\nIn 2001–03, the principle four army generals, Gen. Aziz Khan, Lt-Gen. Mahmud Ahmed, Lt-Gen. Ali Jan Aurakzai, and Lt-Gen. Shahid Aziz later regretted their role in bringing Gen. Musharraf in power when all four generals were forced out from their service due to opposition showed to the President Musharraf's policies.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8417221", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8417221", "title": "ADFE-Français du Monde", "text": "ADFE-Français du Monde\n\nThe Français du Monde - ADFE, also known as \"Association démocratique des Français de l'étranger - Français du Monde\" (Association of French people overseas - French of the World), \"ADFE-FdM\", \"ADFE\" and \"Français du Monde\", is a French group with a worldwide presence. It was established in 1980 , and was quite active in obtaining in 1982 the right for French citizens living overseas to elect their own representatives to a consultative assembly, the \"Conseil Superieur des Français de l'Etranger\" (CSFE), the denomination of which was modified in 2004 in \"Assemblée des Français de l'étranger\" (AFE), electing twelve senators to the French Senate.\n\nOne of its main proposals, to allow French citizens overseas to elect members of the National Assembly of France, has been accepted and will become reality in 2012.\n\nThe ADFE is one of the three groupings in the AFE with 56 of the 155 elected members, and has chosen three of the twelve senators representing French people abroad. While the groups in the AFE are not affiliated directly with French political parties, the ADFE is a left-wing grouping. Its current senators sit all with the Socialist Party, and have belonged to other left affiliated parties.\n\nThe ADFE encourages and assists voter registration for presidential elections and referendums. The ADFE, which is not a political party, extends assistance to French citizens overseas in various fields, especially in those related to social help, education and to dealings with consular offices, such as changes of status, issue of documents, pensions, and similar matters.\n\n"}
{"id": "3361178", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3361178", "title": "AirScan", "text": "AirScan\n\nAirScan, Inc. is a private military company that specializes in airborne surveillance and security.\n\nAirScan Inc. was formed in 1984 by former US Air Commandos Walter Holloway and John Mansur with high standards of recruitment. They have been specializing in airborne surveillance, security operations, surveillance systems, wildlife surveys and training since 1989. They are one of the few companies able to operate unmanned aerial vehicles. They most recently won a $10 million contract from the Coalition Provisional Authority to provide aerial surveillance of the pipelines protected by Erinys International Ltd. They are rather secretive about many of their operations, choosing to remain vague, citing privacy, and speak mostly about their infrared deer surveys and polar bear trackings.\n\nOn December 13, 1998, AirScan misidentified the village of Santo Domingo as a hostile guerrilla target, leading to a cluster bomb attack by Colombian Air Force units which killed eighteen civilians, including nine children. Three employees of AirScan were flying the Skymaster plane from which they provided the Colombian military with the coordinates to drop the bombs. The operation had been planned at Occidental's complex in Caño Limón by the CAF and AirScan.\n\nAirScan is one of the named defendants in the lawsuit Galvis Mujica v. Occidental Petroleum, et al. filed April 23, 2003 in the US District Court in Los Angeles. The suit was filed by the Washington DC based International Labor Rights Fund and is based on the Alien Tort Claims Act. The AirScan employees, Arthur McClintock, Jose Orta, and Charlie Denny have disappeared and their location remains unknown. The Coast Guard is investigating whether Orta, who was allegedly flying the plane, was a military officer on active duty at the Coast Guard at the time. AirScan has denied any responsibility for the events.\n\nUS Representative Jan Schakowsky's letter to Colin Powell in November 2002 requests he decertify the Colombian Air Force's 1st Combat Command, located at Palanquero airbase, and so that the elements involved in the Santo Domingo attack may stop receiving US funding. US Ambassador Anne Patterson had recommended this action as well and in the summer of 2004, Secretary of State Powell did decertify the unit. He is, however, still reluctant to support finding the three pilots, as Rep. Schakowsky had also requested.\n\nAirScan has been implicated in running Pentagon weapons to counter-insurgency operations in Uganda, as well as to rebels in the Sudan fighting the Khartoum regime.\nAirScan was hired by the MPLA government of Angola in late 1997 to provide surveillance of the mostly Chevron owned oil installations in the Cabinda region, a region Angola had just weeks earlier led an offensive from into the Congo. The MPLA had several firms hired in the region including Defence Systems Limited and MPRI, who had been set receive the contract but pulled out at the last moment.\nThe timing and location of hiring AirScan leads some to believe these firms are providing covert training and assistance in oil wealthy areas of Africa. Brigadier General Joe Stringham, a founding member of AirScan and in charge of operations in Cabinda was responsible for many covert counter-insurgency activities in El Salvador during their dirty war in the '80s.\n\nAirScan was also implicated in air surveillance operations over Macedonia as part of a contract in support of NATO peacekeeping operations in former Yugoslavia. AirScan operated a Cessna 337H Skymaster registered N729AS (c/n33802938) fitted with special equipment including a FLIR ball under the port (left) wing and a weather radar under the starboard wing. At least a part of the \"take\" of AirScan flights was transmitted through the commercial Telstar 11 satellite TV relay, along other imagery gathered by US Army and US Navy surveillance units. That surveillance was used to monitor terrorist activities, to keep suspects in sight and for counter-trafficking operations support. The broadcasts through channels of Telstar 11 were not enciphered, as it was discovered by a British citizen, John Locker, late 2001.\n\n"}
{"id": "51262685", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51262685", "title": "Alvaro Salas", "text": "Alvaro Salas\n\nAlvaro Salas (born May 25, 1953 in Montevideo, Uruguay) is a Uruguayan Master Candombe drummer and percussion teacher. \n\nSalas was born in Ansina, a neighbourhood in Palermo, Montevideo.\n\nSalas has worked, both live and on records, with a number of musicians, including Eduardo Mateo, Jorginho Gularte, Roberto Galletti, Federico Britos, and Urbano Moraes. He has also worked as a percussionist, arranger, and director with several award-winning Carnival groups including Marabunta, Sueno del Buceo, Vendaval, and others. He is the current Director of Afro-Uruguayan social organization Mundo Afro. As well, he runs the musical school in this institution, which has international prestige.\n\n\nCandombe\n"}
{"id": "12511878", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12511878", "title": "BASIX (India)", "text": "BASIX (India)\n\nBASIX is an institution concerning the promotion of livelihood established in 1996 in India. It is headquartered in Hyderabad, Telangana.\n\nBASIX is the brand name of a group of companies, which are:\n\nTo offer agricultural and business development services, such as input supply, training, technical assistance and market linkages, in a cost-effective manner, poor households are organized into groups, informal associations and sometimes cooperatives or producer companies. The formation of such groups and making them function effectively requires institutional development services. BASIX aims to provide three services concerning this, which it calls the Livelihood Triad:\n\nBASIX also provides sectoral and policy research services, feasibility studies and other consultancy services using companies within the group, with a focus on contributing to the knowledge and practice of livelihood promotion. Its customers have included international bodies, the Government of India, and several state governments.\n\nBASIX works in 20,000 villages in 106 districts in the states of Telangana, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Orissa, Jharkhand, Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Bihar, Chhattisgarh, West Bengal, Delhi and Assam.\n\nSince the inception of the group, BASIX has cumulatively disbursed Rs 893 crore (USD 220 million) through nearly 578,000 cumulative loans. The loan outstanding as of 31 March 2007 was Rs 234 crore (USD 58 million) for the group with over 347,651 customers. As much as 41% of the loans went to the farm sector, which is severely impaired for want of credit and 59% to women, who tend to be financially excluded.\n\nSavings services were provided through KBSLAB, by linking urban BSFL customers with banks or post offices and through Self-help groups in the case of Sarvodaya. The total coverage was 450,000.\nBASIX insures its customers against risks like death, spouse's death, critical illness, hospitalization and permanent disability. It has rainfall-index based crop insurance, livestock insurance and micro enterprise asset insurance and deposit insurance for savings customers. In 2006-07, this coverage was extended to 473,932 asset owners. Over 10,000 cumulative claims have been settled amounting to Rs 36 million.\n\nBASIX provided Agriculture/Business Development Services for productivity enhancement, non-insurance risk mitigation, local value addition and market linkages. These services were extended to 72,000 producers. Fees collected towards providing these services amounted to Rs 1.6 crore.\n\nBASIX provides Institutional Development Services to Self-Help groups, SHG federations, Mutual Benefit Trusts, Producer Groups and Cooperatives, to aid producers' livelihood activities. These services were extended to 25,110 groups, with over 683,000 members. Fees collected towards providing these services amounted to Rs 2.4 crore.\n\n"}
{"id": "396564", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=396564", "title": "Bipartisan Campaign Reform Act", "text": "Bipartisan Campaign Reform Act\n\nThe Bipartisan Campaign Reform Act of 2002 (BCRA, McCain–Feingold Act, , ) is a United States federal law that amended the Federal Election Campaign Act of 1974, which regulates the financing of political campaigns. Its chief sponsors were Senators Russ Feingold (D-WI) and John McCain (R-AZ). The law became effective on 6 November 2002, and the new legal limits became effective on January 1, 2003.\n\nAs noted in \"McConnell v. FEC\", a United States Supreme Court ruling on the BCRA, the Act was designed to address two issues:\n\nAlthough the legislation is known as \"McCain–Feingold\", the Senate version is not the bill that became law. Instead, the companion legislation, H.R. 2356—introduced by Rep. Chris Shays (R-CT), is the version that became law. Shays–Meehan was originally introduced as H.R. 380.\n\nIn the aftermath of Watergate, Congress passed the Federal Election Campaign Act Amendments of 1974, which put new limits on contributions to campaigns. Four years later, the FEC ruled that donors could donate unlimited money to political parties (but not the candidates themselves) if the party used that money for \"party building activities\" such as voter registration drives, but not to directly support candidates. Both the Republican and Democratic parties nonetheless used this money to support their candidates, and money donated to parties became known as soft money. In 1992, President George H.W. Bush vetoed a bill passed by the Democratic Congress that would have, among other things, restricted the use of soft money. President Clinton pushed for a similar bill, but was unable to get both houses to agree on one bill.\n\nIn 1995, Senators John McCain (R-AZ) and Russ Feingold (D-WI) jointly published an op-ed calling for campaign finance reform, and began working on their own bill. In 1998, the Senate voted on the bill, but the bill failed to meet the 60 vote threshold to defeat a filibuster. All 45 Senate Democrats and 6 Senate Republicans voted to invoke cloture, but the remaining 49 Republicans voted against invoking cloture. This effectively killed the bill for the remainder of the 105th Congress.\n\nMcCain's 2000 campaign for president and a series of scandals (including the Enron scandal) brought the issue of campaign finance to the fore of public consciousness in 2001. McCain and Feingold pushed the bill in the Senate, while Chris Shays (R-CT) and Marty Meehan (D-MA) led the effort to pass the bill in the House. In just the second successful use of the discharge petition since the 1980s, a mixture of Democrats and Republicans defied Speaker Dennis Hastert and passed a campaign finance reform bill. The House approved the bill with a 240–189 vote, sending the bill to the Senate. The bill passed the Senate in a 60–40 vote, the bare minimum required to overcome the filibuster. Throughout the Congressional battle on the bill, President Bush declined to take a strong position, but Bush signed the law in March 2002 after it cleared both houses of Congress.\n\nProvisions of the legislation were challenged as unconstitutional by a group of plaintiffs led by then–Senate Majority Whip Mitch McConnell, a long-time opponent of the bill. President Bush signed the law despite \"reservations about the constitutionality of the broad ban on issue advertising.\" He appeared to expect that the Supreme Court would overturn some of its key provisions. But, in December 2003, the Supreme Court upheld most of the legislation in \"McConnell v. FEC.\"\nSubsequently, political parties and \"watchdog\" organizations have filed complaints with the FEC concerning the raising and spending of soft money by so-called \"527 organizations\"—organizations claiming tax-exemption as \"political organizations\" under Section 527 of the Internal Revenue Code (), but not registering as \"political committees\" under the Federal Election Campaign Act, which uses a different legal definition. These organizations have been established on both sides of the political aisle, and have included high-profile organizations such as the Media Fund and the Swift Boat Veterans for Truth. 527s are financed in large part by wealthy individuals, labor unions, and businesses. 527s pre-dated McCain–Feingold but grew in popularity after the law took effect. In May 2004, the FEC voted to not write new rules on the application of federal campaign finance laws to 527 organizations. Although the FEC did promulgate a new rule in the fall of 2004 requiring some 527s participating in federal campaigns to use at least 50% \"hard money\" (contributions regulated by the Federal Election Campaign Act) to pay their expenses, the FEC did not change its regulations on when a 527 organization must register as a federal \"political committee\"-prompting Representatives Shays and Meehan to file a federal court lawsuit against the FEC for the Commission's failure to adopt a 527 rule. In September, 2007, a Federal District Court ruled in favor of the FEC, against Congressmen Shays and Meehan.\n\nIn December 2006 the FEC entered settlements with three 527 groups the Commission found to have violated federal law by failing to register as \"political committees\" and abide by contribution limits, source prohibitions and disclosure requirements during the 2004 election cycle. Swift Boat Veterans for Truth was fined $299,500; the League of Conservation Voters was fined $180,000; MoveOn.org was fined $150,000. In February 2007, the 527 organization Progress for America Voter Fund was likewise fined $750,000 for its failure to abide by federal campaign finance laws during the 2004 election cycle.\n\nIn June 2007 the U.S. Supreme Court held, in \"FEC v. Wisconsin Right to Life, Inc.\", that BCRA's limitations on corporate and labor union funding of broadcast ads mentioning a candidate within 30 days of a primary or caucus or 60 days of a general election are unconstitutional as applied to ads susceptible of a reasonable interpretation other than as an appeal to vote for or against a specific candidate. Some election law experts believed that the new exception would render BCRA's \"electioneering communication\" provisions meaningless, while others believed the new exception to be quite narrow.\n\nIn June 2008, the section of the act known as the \"millionaire's amendment\" was overturned by the Supreme Court in \"Davis v. Federal Election Commission\". This provision had attempted to \"equalize\" campaigns by providing that the legal limit on contributions would increase for a candidate who was substantially outspent by an opposing candidate using personal wealth. In 2008 one of the cosponsors of the legislation, Senator John McCain of Arizona, touted this piece of legislation and others that he sponsored in his bid for the presidency. Senator McCain consistently voiced concern over campaign practices and their funding. \"'Questions of honor are raised as much by appearances as by reality in politics, and because they incite public distrust, they need to be addressed no less directly than we would address evidence of expressly illegal corruption,' McCain wrote in his 2002 memoir \"Worth the Fighting For\". 'By the time I became a leading advocate of campaign finance reform, I had come to appreciate that the public's suspicions were not always mistaken. Money does buy access in Washington, and access increases influence that often results in benefiting the few at the expense of the many.'\"\n\nIn March 2009, the U.S. Supreme Court heard oral arguments in \"Citizens United v. Federal Election Commission\", regarding whether or not a political documentary about Hillary Clinton could be considered a political ad that must be paid for with funds regulated under the Federal Election Campaign Act. In January 2010, the Supreme Court struck sections of McCain–Feingold down which limited activity of corporations, saying, \"If the First Amendment has any force, it prohibits Congress from fining or jailing citizens, or associations of citizens, for simply engaging in political speech.\" Specifically, \"Citizens United\" struck down campaign financing laws related to corporations and unions; law previously banned the broadcast, cable or satellite transmission of \"electioneering communications\" paid for by corporations in the 30 days before a presidential primary and in the 60 days before the general election. The ruling did not, as commonly thought, change the amount of money corporations and unions can contribute to campaigns. The minority argued that the court erred in allowing unlimited corporate spending, arguing that corporate spending posed a particular threat to democratic self-government.\n\nPresident Barack Obama expressed his concern over the Supreme Court's decision during his 2010 State of the Union Address, delivered January 27, saying, \"With all due deference to separation of powers, last week the Supreme Court reversed a century of law that I believe will open the floodgates for special interests—including foreign corporations—to spend without limit in our elections. I don't think American elections should be bankrolled by America's most powerful interests, or worse, by foreign entities. They should be decided by the American people. And I'd urge Democrats and Republicans to pass a bill that helps to correct some of these problems.\" President Obama also called the decision, \"a major victory for big oil, Wall Street banks, health insurance companies and the other powerful interests that marshal their power every day in Washington to drown out the voices of everyday Americans.\"\n\nThe BCRA decreased the role of soft money in political campaigns as the law places limits on the contributions by interest groups and national political parties. The BCRA had a \"Stand by Your Ad\" Provision, which requires candidates in the United States for federal political office, as well as interest groups and political parties supporting or opposing a candidate, to include in political advertisements on television and radio \"a statement by the candidate that identifies the candidate and states that the candidate has approved the communication.\"\n\nThe impact of BCRA first started being felt nationally with the 2004 elections. One immediately recognizable result was that, as a result of the so-called stand by your ad provision, all campaign advertisements included a verbal statement to the effect of \"I'm [Candidate's Name] and I approve this message.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "18344531", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18344531", "title": "Breaking Ground", "text": "Breaking Ground\n\nBreaking Ground, formerly Common Ground, is a nonprofit social services organization in New York City whose goal is to create high-quality permanent and transitional housing for the homeless. Its philosophy holds that supportive housing costs substantially less than homeless shelters — and many times less than jail cells or hospital rooms, and that people with psychiatric and other problems can better manage them once they are permanently housed and provided with services. Since its founding in 1990 by Rosanne Haggerty, the organization has created more than 5,000 units of housing for the homeless. \"This is about creating a small town, rather than just a building,\" according to Haggerty. \"It's about a real mixed society, working with many different people.\" Haggerty left the organization in 2011 to found Community Solutions, Inc. Brenda Rosen was promoted from Director, Housing Operations and Programs to Executive Director, and has led the organization since.\n\nBreaking Ground began by rehabilitating the Times Square Hotel (located at 8th Avenue and 43rd) Street, which opened in 1991. It went on to restore other historic properties including the Prince George Hotel, opened in 1999. In the late 2000s and continuing today, Breaking Ground has expanded into new construction, bringing to fruition a total of 15 residences, with another 1,000 units in various stages of development.\n\nIn Australia, following a report by Haggerty to the South Australian Government, Premier Mike Rann and Social Inclusion Commissioner David Cappo backed Haggerty's recommendations with a multimillion-dollar investment in inner city apartment buildings. Common Ground Adelaide and Street to Home were established and have now been adopted in other Australian States.\n\nAmong Breaking Ground's activities is conducting street outreach, which consists of documenting the homeless population and then trying to persuade those who spend the most time on the streets to seek permanent housing, even if they still have drug, alcohol or medical problems. Breaking Ground is contracted by the City of New York to conduct street outreach in all of Brooklyn and Queens and nearly one third of Manhattan.\n\nSome of those involved in the issue of homelessness consider Breaking Ground a pioneer in this approach in the United States.\n\nHowever, the count, which has been adopted by the city for use in other areas, is not an end to itself, but a first step. According to Becky Kanis, the former Director of Breaking Ground's \"Innovations Department\",\n\nThe important part is what we do with this information. We want to move from crisis management to lasting solutions. Other cities have done that successfully. We plan to do the same... At the real end of the day the only thing that's going to matter is the people who have been thus far completely unwilling to accept the offers of shelter, etc. by outreach workers. Can we reach them and make a positive difference in their lives? What can we do compassionately to help these people who have, for all practical purposes, fallen through the cracks of society? That's where our focus is; that's what matters. ... We don't know exactly what's going to work here in New York, but we know what's worked in other cities. Therefore, we're going to spend our efforts doing those things, and as we find smarter and better ways to do things we will adopt them.\n\nThe Street to Home initiative is a partnership of Breaking Ground and the Times Square Alliance, and the strategy reduced homelessness by 87% over two years. It incorporates strategic targeting of individuals and intensive followup modeled on the successful approach used in the United Kingdom's Rough Sleepers Initiative. The Rough Sleepers Initiative achieved a 75% reduction in street homelessness across England and prompted deeper investment in homelessness from Parliament. In New York City, Street to Home has been adopted as a citywide strategy to reduce street homelessness by two-thirds within three years. Breaking Ground will direct all efforts on the streets of midtown Manhattan and throughout the boroughs of Brooklyn and Queens.\n\nBreaking Ground's initial strategy was to deal with a 20-block neighborhood around Times Square with one of the highest levels of homelessness in the city, focusing on securing housing for those who have been living on the street the longest and need housing the most. They replaced the random \"first come, first served\" approach with a targeted, strategic process: identify and prioritize the most vulnerable individuals on the street, assess and negotiate housing options with those individuals, then house and retain.\n\nStreet to Home partners with Business Improvement District public safety officers or community outreach workers who – because they are on the front lines every day – have a thorough knowledge of the people continually living on their streets. They are trained by Breaking Ground in approaches to introduce clients to a housing team that will help them to secure housing. A simple tracking tool enables workers to differentiate between those who are consistently in the targeted area – called \"anchors\" – and those who are transients. The role of \"anchor\" individuals in street homelessness was identified in the Rough Sleepers Initiative, with subsequent targeting of those individuals yielding greater success – a tipping point – in engaging and moving individuals in the surrounding area. Breaking Ground developed a research-based Vulnerability Index to take the guesswork out of outreach and offer a rational system for prioritizing the most vulnerable homeless for housing.\n\nBecause most people who have lived on the streets for a long time are suffering from multiple disabilities and are usually eligible for some form of housing subsidy, Breaking Ground trains service providers in how to assess for eligibility for housing, services, and benefits, and provides tips on expediting this process. With the immediacy of the housing offer in hand for the individual, Street to Home uses techniques derived from Motivational Interviewing and Trauma Informed Care in working with clients to negotiate placement into housing. Street to Home assesses each individual's eligibility for subsidized housing and income benefits and walks each person through the process of obtaining permanent housing- registering for disability or income support benefits, completing medical and psychiatric tests, and finding an apartment that fits the person's needs.\n\nSince the start of the Street to Home initiative, Breaking Ground has helped more than 175 adults – who had been homeless an average of 9.9 years – move from the streets directly into permanent housing, where more than 90% are able to maintain their housing. Most individuals who have lived on the streets for long periods do not wish to live in a shelter but want and are successful in their own homes, which begins their reintegration into society. Some clients of Street to Home have re-established relationships with family members. Many are working or have returned to school.\n\nWhile on vacation in Ireland, Breaking Ground founder Rosanne Haggerty looked into how that country addresses the housing needs of its poorest residents. She found in the city of Belfast, the Foyer Program, a model long used in France, Ireland, and England to help young people without family and at risk of homelessness make the transition to adulthood. Haggerty hoped the model might be useful in New York City, where about 20 percent of homeless adults have a history of foster care, and where, according to one city agency, some 3,700 young people will age out of foster care between 2002 and 2004.\n\nHaggerty decided to replicate the Foyer Program in her next project – the renovation of an old YMCA residence in Manhattan's Chelsea neighborhood, which set aside 40 of its 207 units for young adults ages 18 to 24 who are aging out of foster and residential care or are homeless or at risk of homelessness. The Chelsea Residence (The Christopher) provides employment, educational mentoring and life-skills training programs; participants work over an 18-month to two-year period toward permanent housing and stable employment. The $32 million project, which includes $9 million for acquisition, has received state, city and private financing.\n\nFoyers are a way \"to help people who aren't ready to be on their own to develop the life skills, job skills and maturity to lead independent, successful lives,\" according to Sister Paulette LoMonaco, executive director of New York City's Good Shepherd Services.\n\nHomeLink, Re-Entry Housing Initiative, Vulnerability Index, Hospital to Home, and Innovations Team\n\nAs of 2018 Breaking Ground has 24 buildings with 4,058 units.\n\nThis 15-story art deco building has a lobby with vaulted ceilings and a marble staircase. By the 1980s, the Times Square Hotel was in a state of decay. Its ceilings were caving in, its halls were dark and dangerous, and its tenants were drug addicts, homeless families and elderly people with no place else to go.\n\nA young college graduate named Rosanne Haggerty became obsessed with saving the run-down hotel at the corner of Eighth Avenue and 43rd Street from the wrecker's ball and converting it into a home for street people, low-income workers and psychiatric survivors. Haggerty and other housing activists applied for every grant, tax credit and low-interest loan available, won the support of corporate and community leaders and sold Mayor David Dinkins on their vision.\n\nIn 1994, the restored Times Square Hotel emerged from its scaffolding, and is today the home to 652 residents. Supportive social services are provided by the Center for Urban Community Services (CUCS).\n\nFor decades the Prince George Hotel, with its burnished wood, lavishly detailed ceilings and classical columns welcomed visitors to Edith Wharton's New York. But then the hotel declined, becoming one of New York's notorious welfare hotels of The Bowery (Manhattan) in the 1980s, when it housed about 1,600 people. The city closed it in 1989.\n\nToday, the hotel on East 28th Street has reopened, combining aspects of both of its previous incarnations. It once again provides housing to the formerly homeless, but the number of residents is far less, and they are able to take advantage of supportive services right in the building. At the same time, the Prince George has been restored to its former glory in what now has become one of Manhattan's official historic districts, Madison Square North, with particular attention to its once-again elegant ballroom, a grand gathering place. Supportive social services are provided by the Center for Urban Community Services (CUCS).\n\nIn 2004, Breaking Ground launched an ambitious project to restore the ballroom and adjacent former Hunt Room. The project presented an opportunity to offer needed training and jobs. Breaking Ground, working with four other non-profit groups, arranged for at-risk youth, high school students interested in restoration arts, architectural students, and individuals with HIV/AIDS to work on the renovation. Students at the Parsons School designed and built an entry foyer and gallery space in what had been the Hunt Room. Faced with an area that was beyond restoration, the students developed an airy, modern space that is now the World Monuments Fund Gallery, which serves as a special exhibition and events space.\n\nIn 2000, the YMCA sold its second building for $9 million to Breaking Ground. The building, which is entered through 202 West 24th Street, once housed the Y's transient residences. In July 2000 the group began a $23 million transformation of the 24th Street building into 207 residences for homeless people and low-income single adults - those earning up to $32,640 a year - as well as teenagers at risk of becoming homeless. Supportive social services are provided by CUCS.\n\nBreaking Ground purchased The Andrews, a dingy century-old building, in 2002 for $2.5 million. The renovation added three floors to accommodate 136 residential units and allow for a medical team to be housed on the premises. A transitional housing program, residents do not pay rent and case managers assist them in attaining permanent housing.\n\nBreaking Ground renovated the property at 410 Asylum, known as The Capitol Building, and created 70 mixed-income apartments there, along with space for street-level retail businesses. The rehabilitation of the Hollander Foundation Center incorporates sustainable design elements that enhance energy efficiency and reduce the building's carbon footprint. Green elements include a high-efficiency heating system, low-flow fixtures, an energy-efficient lighting plan, EnergyStar appliances and plans for a green roof. Breaking Ground now incorporates green in all of its projects in Connecticut and New York.\n\nNEF provided funding for the project through Breaking Ground's allocation of low-income housing tax credits and historic tax credits, both stemming from federal programs designed to encourage private-sector investment in affordable housing.\n\nThe upper floors of the former office building were converted into 70 affordable mixed-income apartments. The street level storefronts, comprising were also restored. About 80 percent of the apartments at the center are rented to those with incomes below 60 percent of the area's median income. Rents start at $765 per month. The remaining two-bedroom units will be rented at market rate, $1,400 per month.\n\nConstruction was completed in the summer of 2009.\n\nIn 2007, the New York City Department of Housing Preservation and Development (HPD), in cooperation with Breaking Ground began construction on a $59 million, supportive housing complex at 133 Pitt Street on the Lower East Side that will be Manhattan's first such LEED Silver development. Designed by Kiss + Cathcart Architects (Brooklyn Health House, Stillwell Avenue Subway Terminal), The Lee, named after one of the project's major financiers, will offer affordable housing and on-site social services for 263 residents. All social services are provided on-site by CUCS. 104 units are reserved for the homeless, 105 are for low-income residents, and 54 units are for young adults that are at high risk for homelessness. Green design features include an efficient condensing boiler, a green roof, efficient water fixtures, high-performance lighting, and low-irrigation landscaping. HPD and Breaking Ground expect a minimum of twenty percent savings in utility expenses.\n\nRenovation of a vacant hospital building on the Montrose campus began November 27, the result of a partnership between the VA and Breaking Ground. By Fall 2008, the first phase of the project was completed accommodating 96 veterans.\n\nThe $700,000 renovation included asbestos removal, electrical and plumbing upgrades, a new fire-alarm system and architectural changes to create individual rooms and common rooms in the post-World War II-era building. Most residents are referred by the Montrose VA's Domiciliary Care for Homeless Veterans Program after a four-month rehabilitation program there. Others come from shelters and streets in New York City and Westchester County as well as veterans returning from the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan who are facing imminent homelessness.\n\nDuring their nine- to 12-month stays, veterans also receive support to find employment, manage their physical and mental health conditions, reconnect with family, and later move into their own apartment.\n\nAs a member of the Patriot Housing Initiative, the program helped drastically reduce the number of chronically homeless veterans in Westchester County, to the point that the a program of its size and scope was no longer needed, and the program closed in September 2017.\n\nThis eleven-story, 217-unit apartment building in Brooklyn's Boerum Hill neighborhood was completed in 2008. Units are for households earning under 60% of the area's median income, and half are reserved for the homeless or people with special needs. Schermerhorn House is surrounded by luxury condominiums and townhouses, so developers Breaking Ground and The Actors Fund knew good design was vital to winning local support. They interviewed top architects, and in a sign of growing interest in affordable housing, nearly all of them expressed interest. \"I was even worried if they were going to take my call,\" says Nadine Maleh, Breaking Ground's director of design and construction. The developers chose Ennead (known until 2010 as Polshek Partnership), a New York firm known for high-profile projects such as the Clinton Presidential Library in Little Rock, Arkansas, and the new planetarium building in New York's American Museum of Natural History. Polshek's design — which has a glass façade and a rooftop garden — is meant to fit in with the surrounding buildings. But the glass wall isn't just for looks: Due to site restrictions, part of the project had to be built atop a subway tunnel, a complex engineering challenge. Instead of making the north wall out of heavy masonry, the architects used textured glass, which is lighter and allowed for less costly support trusses. \"Constraints can be challenging, but they can provide opportunity,\" says Polshek principal Susan Rodriguez. Polshek, like many prominent firms working in this field, charged a reduced fee.\nSupportive social services are provided by CUCS and The Actors Fund.\nThe Schermerhorn was participating site in the 2014 Open House New York Weekend.\n\n\nAs of November 2018 Breaking Ground has 3 building with 435, units under construction.\n\nThe following awards were given to founder Rosanne Haggerty:\n\n\nAs an organization, Breaking Ground received these awards:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1030860", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1030860", "title": "Buffer state", "text": "Buffer state\n\nA buffer state is a country lying between two rival or potentially hostile greater powers. Its existence can sometimes be thought to prevent conflict between them. A buffer state is sometimes a mutually agreed upon area lying between two greater powers, which is demilitarized in the sense of not hosting the military of either power (though it will usually have its own military forces). The invasion of a buffer state by one of the powers surrounding it will often result in war between the powers.\n\nResearch shows that buffer states are significantly more likely to be conquered and occupied than are nonbuffer states. This is because \"states that great powers have an interest in preserving—buffer states—are in fact in a high-risk group for death. Regional or great powers surrounding buffer states face a strategic imperative to take over buffer states: if these powers fail to act against the buffer, they fear that their opponent will take it over in their stead. By contrast, these concerns do not apply to nonbuffer states, where powers face no competition for influence or control.\"\n\n\"Buffer states\", when authentically independent, typically pursue a neutralist foreign policy, which distinguishes them from satellite states.\n\nThe concept of buffer states is part of a theory of the balance of power that entered European strategic and diplomatic thinking in the 17th century.\n\nA march is a fortified non-homeland territory for defense against a rival power. A march is controlled by a greater power, whereas a true buffer state is deliberately left alone by rival powers situated either side of it.\n\nExamples of buffer states include:\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23589746", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23589746", "title": "Butter-Powder Tilt", "text": "Butter-Powder Tilt\n\nButter-Powder Tilt is the price adjustment strategy in United States, which requires USDA to support the farm price of milk at $9.90 per cwt. by standing ready to purchase surplus butter, cheese and nonfat dry milk when wholesale prices for these commodities fall below administratively set levels. The 2002 farm bill (P.L. 107-171, Sec. 1501) allows USDA to adjust the government purchase price of butter and nonfat dry milk twice annually in order to better manage its inventories of surplus milk products and minimize government costs. However, whenever the purchase price of one commodity is reduced by USDA, it must increase the purchase price of the other commodity so that the overall support price of milk remains at $9.90 per cwt. This price adjustment is referred to as the butter-powder tilt.\n"}
{"id": "426077", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426077", "title": "Carnegie Endowment for International Peace", "text": "Carnegie Endowment for International Peace\n\nThe Carnegie Endowment for International Peace (CEIP) is a foreign-policy think tank with centers in Washington D.C., Moscow, Beirut, Beijing, Brussels, and New Delhi. The organization describes itself as being dedicated to advancing cooperation between nations and promoting active international engagement by the United States. Founded in 1910 by Andrew Carnegie, its work is not formally associated with any political party of the United States.\n\nIn the University of Pennsylvania's \"2015 Global Go To Think Tanks Report\", Carnegie is ranked the third most influential think tank in the world, after the Brookings Institution and Chatham House.\n\nIts headquarters building, prominently located on the Embassy Row section of Massachusetts Avenue, was completed in 1989 on a design by architecture firm Smith, Hinchman & Grylls. It also hosts the embassy of Papua New Guinea in the U.S.\n\nThe Chairperson of Carnegie's Board of Trustees is former U.S. Secretary of Commerce Penny Pritzker, and the organization's President is former U.S. Deputy Secretary of State William J. Burns.\n\nAndrew Carnegie, like other leading internationalists of his day, believed that war could be eliminated by stronger international laws and organizations. \"I am drawn more to this cause than to any,\" he wrote in 1907. Carnegie's single largest commitment in this field was his creation of the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace.\n\nOn his seventy-fifth birthday, November 25, 1910, Andrew Carnegie announced the establishment of the Endowment with a gift of $10 million worth of first mortgage bonds, paying a 5% rate of interest. The interest income generated from these bonds was to be used to fund a new think tank dedicated to advancing the cause of world peace. In his deed of gift, presented in Washington on December 14, 1910, Carnegie charged trustees to use the fund to \"hasten the abolition of international war, the foulest blot upon our civilization\", and he gave his trustees \"the widest discretion as to the measures and policy they shall from time to time adopt\" in carrying out the purpose of the fund.\n\nCarnegie chose longtime adviser Elihu Root, Senator from New York and former Secretary of War and of State, to be the Endowment's first president. Awarded the Nobel Peace Prize in 1912, Root served until 1925. Founder trustees included Harvard University president Charles William Eliot, philanthropist Robert S. Brookings, former U.S. Ambassador to Great Britain Joseph Hodges Choate, former Secretary of State John W. Foster, and Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching president Henry Smith Pritchett.\n\nThe Endowment was organised into divisions:\n\nAt the outset of America's involvement in World War I in 1917, the Carnegie Endowment trustees unanimously declared, \"the most effective means of promoting durable international peace is to prosecute the war against the Imperial Government of Germany to final victory for democracy. In December 1918, Carnegie Endowment Secretary James Brown Scott and four other Endowment personnel, including James T. Shotwell, sailed with President Woodrow Wilson on the USS \"George Washington\" to join the peace talks in France.\n\nCarnegie is often remembered for having built Carnegie libraries, which were a major recipient of his largesse. The libraries were usually funded not by the Endowment but by other Carnegie trusts, operating mainly in the English-speaking world. However, after World War I the Endowment built libraries in Belgium, France and Serbia in three cities which had been badly damaged in the war.\n\nOn July 14, 1923, the Hague Academy of International Law, an initiative of the Endowment, was formally opened in the Peace Palace at The Hague. \nThe Peace Palace had been built by the Carnegie Foundation (Netherlands) in 1913 to house the Permanent Court of Arbitration and a library of international law.\n\nIn 1925, Nicholas Murray Butler succeeded Elihu Root as president of the Endowment. For his work, including his involvement with the Kellogg–Briand Pact, Butler was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize in 1931.\n\nIn November 1944, the Carnegie Endowment published Raphael Lemkin's \"Axis Rule in Occupied Europe: Laws of Occupation—Analysis of Government—Proposals for Redress\". The work was the first to bring the word \"genocide\" into the global lexicon. In April 1945, James T. Shotwell, director of the Carnegie Endowment's Division of Economics and History, served as chairman of the semiofficial consultants to the U.S. delegation at the San Francisco conference to draw up the United Nations Charter. As chairman, Shotwell pushed for an amendment to establish a permanent United Nations Commission on Human Rights, which exists to this day.\n\nIn December 1945, Butler stepped down after twenty years as president and chairman of the board of trustees. Butler was the last living member of the original board selected by Andrew Carnegie in 1910. John Foster Dulles was elected to succeed Butler as chairman of the Board of Trustees, where he served until fellow board member Dwight D. Eisenhower was elected president of the U.S. in 1952 and appointed Dulles Secretary of State.\n\nIn 1946, Alger Hiss succeeded Butler as president of the Endowment but resigned in 1949 after being denounced as a communist and a spy by Whittaker Chambers and on December 15, 1948, indicted by the United States Department of Justice on two counts of perjury. Hiss was replaced in the interim by James T. Shotwell.\n\nIn 1947, the Carnegie Endowment's headquarters were moved closer to the United Nations in New York City, while the Washington office at Peter Parker House (700 Jackson Pl., NW) became a subsidiary branch.\n\nIn 1949, the Washington branch was shuttered.\n\nIn 1950, the Endowment board of trustees appointed Joseph E. Johnson, a historian and former State Department official, to take the helm.\n\nIn 1963, the Carnegie Endowment reconstituted its International Law Program in order to address several emerging international issues: the increase in significance and impact of international organizations; the technological revolution that facilitated the production of new military weaponry; the spread of Communism; the surge in newly independent states; and the challenges of new forms of economic activity, including global corporations and intergovernmental associations. The program resulted in the New York-based Study Group on the United Nations and the International Organization Study Group at the European Centre in Geneva.\nIn 1970, Thomas L. Hughes became the sixth president of the Carnegie Endowment. Hughes moved the Endowment's headquarters from New York to Washington, D.C., and closed the Endowment's European Centre in Geneva.\n\nThe Carnegie Endowment acquired full ownership of \"Foreign Policy\" magazine in the spring of 1978. The Endowment published \"Foreign Policy\" for 30 years, moving it from a quarterly academic journal to a bi-monthly glossy covering the nexus of globalization and international policy. The magazine was sold to \"The Washington Post\" in 2008.\n\nIn 1981, Carnegie Endowment Associate Fred Bergsten co-founded the Institute for International Economics—today known as the Peterson Institute for International Economics.\n\nCiting the growing danger of a nuclear arms race between India and Pakistan, Thomas L. Hughes formed an eighteen-member Task Force on Non-Proliferation and South Asian Security to propose methods for reducing the growing nuclear tensions on the subcontinent.\nIn 1989, two former Carnegie associates, Barry Blechman and Michael Krepon, founded the Henry L. Stimson Center.\n\nIn 1991, Morton Abramowitz was named the seventh president of the Endowment. Abramowitz, previously a State Department official, focused the Endowment's attention on Russia in the post-Soviet era. In this spirit, the Carnegie Endowment opened the Carnegie Moscow Center in 1994 as a home of Russian scholar-commentators.\n\nJessica Mathews joined the Carnegie Endowment as its eighth president in May 1997. Under her leadership, Carnegie's goal was to become the first multinational/global think tank.\n\nIn 2000, Jessica Mathews announced the creation of the Migration Policy Institute (MPI) headed by Demetrios Papademetriou which became the first stand-alone think tank concerned with international migration.\n\nAs first laid out with the \"Global Vision\" in 2007, the Carnegie Endowment aspired to be the first global think tank. Jessica Mathews said that her aim was to make Carnegie the place that brings what the world thinks into thinking about U.S. policy and to communicate that thinking to a global audience.\nDuring Mathews' tenure as president, the Carnegie Endowment launched the Carnegie Middle East Center in Beirut (2006), Carnegie Europe in Brussels (2007), and the Carnegie-Tsinghua Center at the Tsinghua University in Beijing (2010). Additionally, in partnership with the al-Farabi Kazakh National University, Carnegie established the Al-Farabi Carnegie Program on Central Asia in Kazakhstan in late 2011.\n\nIn February 2015, Jessica T. Mathews stepped down as president of the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace after 18 years. William J. Burns, former U.S. deputy secretary of state, became Carnegie's ninth president.\n\nIn April 2016, the sixth international Center, Carnegie India, opened in New Delhi.\n\n\n\n\n\nThe Carnegie Endowment office in Washington, D.C., is home to eight programs: The Nuclear Policy Program, Russia & Eurasia Program, South Asia Program, Democracy & Rule of Law Program, Asia Program, Energy & Climate Program, Middle East Program, and Europe Program.\n\nWilliam J. Burns, is the current president of the Carnegie Endowment.\n\nIn 1993, the Endowment launched the Carnegie Moscow Center, with the belief that \"in today's world a think tank whose mission is to contribute to global security, stability, and prosperity requires a permanent presence and a multinational outlook at the core of its operations.\"\n\nThe Center's stated goals are to embody and promote the concepts of disinterested social science research and the dissemination of its results in post-Soviet Russia and Eurasia; to provide a free and open forum for the discussion and debate of critical national, regional and global issues; and to further cooperation and strengthen relations between Russia and the United States by explaining the interests, objectives and policies of each.\nFrom 2006 until December 2008, the Center was led by current United States Assistant Secretary of State for Verification, Compliance, and Implementation Rose Gottemoeller. The Center is currently headed by Dmitri Trenin, its first Russian director.\n\nThe Carnegie Middle East Center was established in Beirut, Lebanon in November, 2006. The Center aims to better inform the process of political change in the Arab Middle East and deepen understanding of the complex economic and security issues that affect it. , the current managing director of the Center is Maha Yahya.\n\nFounded in 2007 by Fabrice Pothier, Carnegie Europe is the European centre of the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace. From its newly expanded presence in Brussels, Carnegie Europe combines the work of its research platform with the fresh perspectives of Carnegie's centres in Washington, Moscow, Beijing, and Beirut, bringing a unique global vision to the European policy community. Through publications, articles, seminars, and private consultations, Carnegie Europe aims to foster new thinking on the daunting international challenges shaping Europe's role in the world.\n\nCarnegie Europe is currently directed by Tomáš Valášek.\n\nThe Carnegie-Tsinghua Center for Global Policy was established at Tsinghua University in Beijing in 2010. The Center's focuses include China's foreign relations; international economics and trade; climate change and energy; nonproliferation and arms control; and other global and regional security issues such as North Korea, Afghanistan, Pakistan, and Iran.\n\nThe current director of the Center is Paul Haenle.\n\nIn April 2016, Carnegie India opened in New Delhi, India. The Center's focuses include the political economy of reform in India, foreign and security policy, and the role of innovation and technology in India's internal transformation and international relations.\nThe current director of the Center is C. Raja Mohan.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58418911", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58418911", "title": "Comicsgate", "text": "Comicsgate\n\nComicsgate is a controversial campaign focused on the diversity of content in North American superhero comic books and the kinds of creators who work in the industry. The name is derived from Gamergate, a similar movement related to video games.\n\nComics artist Ethan Van Sciver presents it as \"a consumer-led revolt\" against liberalism in the industry and \"part of the culture-war\". Artist Mike S. Miller describes it as \"an alliance of comic book fans, critics, and creators who have found common cause in standing up against what they see as a hard push by social justice warriors into their hobby\". Participants blame \"forced diversity\" – in both hiring and comics content – for a decline in sales.\n\nCritics of the movement have described it as a harassment campaign which \"targets women, people of color, and LGBT folk in the comic book industry\". It has been blamed for vandalism of a store that did not stock comics created by its members, and for threats of violence against others.\n\nMembers of the movement have rallied against things they feel exemplify problems in the comics industry, which interfere with their entertainment. Examples include storylines in which the traditionally white male characters who have had the identities of Iron Man, Thor, Hulk, and Spider-Man have been temporarily replaced by female and/or racial minority characters, stories dealing with current social issues, and the depiction of women with less idealized figures. They argue that a shift of focus away from catering to their preferences, and hiring diverse talent, is responsible for declining sales since the speculator boom of the 1990s.\n\nProfessionals in the movement complain of discrimination against them for their sociopolitical views. Van Sciver describes \"a left-wing dominance in the comic book industry\" which has led to \"oppressive social justice warrior harassment and blacklisting\", and called for \"escapist, apolitical entertainment\". Industry veteran Chuck Dixon and Brett R. Smith – both politically conservative – alleged in May 2016 that in the industry's pursuit of a more diverse marketplace, they had been blacklisted by Marvel and DC. (DC began publishing \"Bane: Conquest\", a 12-issue mini-series written by Dixon, a year later.)\n\nParticipants say that it has no organization or leadership, but commentator Richard C. Meyer (posting under the banner \"Diversity & Comics\") and former DC illustrator Ethan Van Sciver have been prominent advocates for the campaign. On November 10, 2018, Van Sciver announced on his YouTube channel that he was leaving ComicsGate, but tweeted on November 12 that he was \"back in\".\n\nIn April 2017, conservative magazine \"The Federalist\" tracked the Twitter accounts of all 30 freelance writers who had a comic released by Marvel that month, reporting that each had criticized President Donald Trump at least once, and none mentioned him positively. It attempted to identify the writers' religions, publishing a report that they included atheists, Jews, and a Muslim, but that none had spoken on Twitter about being Christian.\n\nA July 2017 social media post by Marvel Comics assistant editor Heather Antos, featuring several young female coworkers getting milkshakes in memory of company veteran Flo Steinberg, drew attention from members of the movement. Antos was described by them as a \"diversity hire\", \"an unqualified bimbo\", and \"the 'false rape charge' type\", and the group in general as \"fake geek girls\", \"tumblr-virtue signalers\", and \"the creepiest collection of stereotypical SJWs anyone could possibly imagine\". Antos reported being the target of a campaign of online harassment for some time afterward. \n\nVan Sciver has made Comicsgate and related topics a regular feature of his \"ComicArtistPro Secrets\" YouTube channel.\n\nMeyer has made the campaign a common subject on his YouTube channel and Twitter account, in which he identifies comics professionals whose work or personal activities he sees as detrimental to the industry. He took credit for the firing of writer Aubrey Sitterson from the IDW comic \"G.I. Joe: Scarlett’s Strike Force\" after Sitterson criticized on social media what he saw as \"performative grief\" about the September 11 attacks. In a 2017 video titled \"The Dark Roast\", Meyer referred to a female Marvel Comics editor as a \"cum dumpster\", accused various female professionals of \"sucking their way into the industry\", and described a transgender female writer as a \"man in a wig\".\n\nMeyer also participated in the backlash against the character designs of Netflix adaptation \"She-Ra and the Princesses of Power\". He called showrunner Noelle Stevenson a \"boyish lesbian\" and accused her of re-imagining the title character She-Ra as herself, describing it as \"utter selfishness and egotism\".\n\nMembers of Comicsgate have responded to professionals criticizing the movement by circulating lists of such creators to boycott, including one which categorized individuals as members of the \"Pravda Press\", \"Asinine Artists\", \"Toxic Colorists\", and \"Indie Mafia\". Among those placed on such lists and criticized for their views have been Larry Hama, Mark Waid, Alex de Campi, Kelly Sue DeConnick, Matt Fraction, and Ta-Nehisi Coates. Colorist Moose Baumann recounted that he received threats of violence after stepping away from Van Sciver's creator-owned book \"Cyberfrog\".\n\nAlt-right activist Vox Day, who wrote and published the series \"Alt-Hero\" and hired Chuck Dixon to write for him, announced a publishing imprint \"Comicsgate Comics.\" A few creators involved with Comicsgate have run highly successful crowdfunding campaigns promoted to produce comics reflecting the group's values, including Van Sciver's \"Cyberfrog\", Meyer's \"No Enemy But Peace\", Mitch Breitweiser's \"Red Rooster\", and Mike S. Miller's \"Lonestar\".\n\nIn early 2018, Meyer announced that his crowdfunded comic book \"Jawbreakers: Lost Souls\", a collaboration with freelance artist Joe Malin, would be published by Antarctic Press. In May 2018, Meyer posted on Twitter screen shots of a private conversation between comic retailers discussing whether or not they would order copies of the series. He encouraged his followers to publicly post and circulate names, locations, and employee information of stores that said they would not be stocking it. He accused Edmonton, Alberta store \"Variant Edition\" of \"bullying and intimidating their own customers\" after the female co-owner tweeted that they would not stock the publication; the store was subsequently vandalized and robbed. Dublin, Ireland store \"Big Bang Comics\", which was not stocking the book, received threats of violence on social media. \n\nOn May 13, Antarctic Press announced that they were ending their relationship with Meyer, who blamed freelance writer Mark Waid for contacting Antarctic's owner to talk about the controversy, accusing him of pressuring Antarctic not to publish the book. Both Antarctic and Waid issued statements denying that any threats or bullying had taken place. In October 2018, Meyer sued Waid for \"tortious interference with contract and defamation\". In a Motion to Dismiss, Waid's attorney Mark Zaid asserted that Meyer's own public attacks against industry professionals were responsible, pointing to comments on Twitter calling writer Ta-Nehisi Coates \"a race hustler\", accusing a number of female professionals of being hired solely based on gender, and referring to trans and non-binary DC writers as \"a modern day carnival\".\n\nAlthough many comics professionals choose to ignore Comicsgate to avoid giving it publicity, it has been met with widespread criticism from other readers, comics creators, and industry journalists. Both Meyer and Van Sciver have come under criticism for their public comments. In late 2017, Polygon writer Kieran Shiach accused Meyer of homophobia in comments he made in a video, that people such as openly gay freelance writer Sina Grace should be \"waned out of society\" [sic] by a war-time military draft leading to his planned death in combat. Van Sciver has faced backlash from other comic professionals for joking about suicide by Democrats, comments on Reddit about a \"queer globalist mess\", and hosting alt-right leader Vox Day in an episode on his YouTube channel.\n\nIn mid 2018, Marsha Cooke – widow of writer-artist Darwyn Cooke – denied a claim by Comicsgate participants that her husband would have supported the campaign. After she became the subject of online attacks on Twitter, several industry veterans (including Bill Sienkiewicz, Van Jenson, Tony Bedard, Jeff Lemire, and Magdalene Visaggio) wrote rebukes to the movement. In a social media post, writer Scott Snyder, who teaches writing in college and DC Comics' talent development program, said the movement launched \"cruel, personal attacks\" on his students that \"were (and still are) especially repugnant for their sexism, racism, homophobia, and transphobia.\" \n\nWriter Tom Taylor posted a brief message on social media rejecting the tenets of Comicsgate, stating \"I believe comics are for everyone. There is no excuse for harassment. There is no place for homophobia, transphobia, racism or misogyny in comics criticism.\" The social media post was retweeted by creators including Kelly Thompson, Tim Seeley, Margaret Stohl, Jason Latour, Greg Pak, Fabian Nicieza, Benjamin Percy, and Jeff Lemire. In an unsigned editorial, \"Paste\" magazine took issue with the phrasing of Taylor's statement, arguing that the group's activities should not be equated with critical commentary.\n\nGreg Hatcher, administrator of the Comic Book Resources forums, compared the movement to the harassment that drove actresses Kelly Marie Tran and Millie Bobby Brown from social media, and noted that comic creators in earlier decades such as Jack Kirby and Stan Lee had also faced fan backlash for including political themes in comic books.\n"}
{"id": "23597236", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23597236", "title": "Commodity programs", "text": "Commodity programs\n\nIn United States federal agricultural policy, the term commodity programs is usually meant to include the commodity price and income support programs administered by the Farm Service Agency and financed by the Commodity Credit Corporation (CCC). The commodities now receiving support are:\n\nA broader phrase that includes these commodity programs and other assistance is farm programs.\n\n"}
{"id": "17081931", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17081931", "title": "Communism in 20 years", "text": "Communism in 20 years\n\nCommunism in 20 years was a slogan put forth by Nikita Khrushchev at the 22nd Congress of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union in 1961.\n\nIn his speech, Khrushchev promised that communism will be built \"in the main\" by 1980. His phrase \"The current generation of Soviet people will live under communism\" was the final phrase of the new Program of the CPSU adopted at the congress. \n\nThe latter political slogan is attributed to Kremlin speechwriter Elizar Kuskov (Елизар Кусков), who allegedly quipped \"this slogan will survive centuries\".\n"}
{"id": "1543320", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1543320", "title": "Counter-battery radar", "text": "Counter-battery radar\n\nA counter-battery radar (alternatively weapon tracking radar) is a radar system that detects artillery projectiles fired by one or more guns, howitzers, mortars or rocket launchers and, from their trajectories, locates the position on the ground of the weapon that fired it. Such radars are a subclass of the wider class of target acquisition radars.\n\nEarly counter-battery radars were generally used against mortars, whose lofted trajectories were highly symmetrical and allowed easy calculation of the launcher's location. Starting in the 1970s, digital computers with improved calculation capabilities allowed more complex trajectories of long-range artillery to also be determined. Normally, these radars would be attached to friendly artillery units or their support units, allowing them to quickly arrange counter-battery fire.\n\nWith the aid of modern communications systems, the information from a single radar can be rapidly disseminated over long distances. This allows the radar to notify multiple batteries as well as provide early warning to the friendly targets. Modern counter-battery radar can locate hostile batteries up to about 50 km away depending on the radar's capabilities and the terrain and weather. Some counter-battery radars can also be used to track the fire of friendly artillery and calculate corrections to adjust its fire onto a particular place, but this is usually a secondary mission objective.\n\nRadar is the most recently developed means of locating hostile artillery. The emergence of indirect fire in World War I saw the development of sound ranging, flash spotting and air reconnaissance, both visual and photographic. Radars, like sound ranging and flash spotting, require hostile guns, etc., to fire before they can be located.\n\nThe first radars were developed for anti-aircraft purposes just before World War II. These were soon followed by fire control radars for ships and coastal artillery batteries. The latter could observe the splashes of water from missing shots, enabling corrections to be plotted. Generally, the shells could not be seen directly by the radar, as they were too small and rounded to make a strong return, and travelled too quickly for the mechanical antennas of the era to follow.\n\nRadar operators in light anti-aircraft batteries close to the front line found they were able to track mortar bombs. This was likely helped by the fins of the bomb producing a partial corner cube that strongly reflected the signal. These accidental intercepts led to their dedicated use in this role, with special secondary instruments if necessary, and development of radars designed for mortar locating. Dedicated mortar-locating radars were common starting in the 1960s and were used until around 2000.\n\nLocating mortars was relatively easy because of their high, arcing, trajectory. At times, just after firing and just before impact, the trajectory is almost linear. If a radar observes the shell at two points in time just after launch, the line between those points can be extended to the ground and provides a highly accurate position of the mortar, more than enough for counterbattery artillery to hit it with ease. Better radars were also able to detect howitzers when firing at high angles (elevations greater than 45 degrees), although such use was quite rare.\n\nLow angle trajectories normally used by guns, howitzers and rockets were more difficult. Purely ballistic low-angle trajectories are lopsided, being relatively parabolic for the start of the flight but becoming much more curved near the end. This is further modified by otherwise minor effects like wind, air pressure differences and aerodynamic effects, which have time to add up to a noticeable effect on long-range fire but can be ignored for short-range systems like mortars. These effects are minimized immediately after launch, but the low angle makes it difficult to see the rounds during this time, in contrast to a mortar which climbs above the horizon almost immediately. Adding to the problem is the fact that traditional artillery shells make for difficult radar targets.\n\nBy the early 1970s, radar systems capable of locating guns appeared possible, and many European members of NATO embarked on the joint Project Zenda. This was short-lived for unclear reasons, but the US embarked on Firefinder program and Hughes developed the necessary algorithms, although it took two or three years of difficult work.\n\nThe next step forward was European when in 1986 France, Germany and UK agreed the 'List of Military Requirements' for a new counter-battery radar. The distinguishing feature was that instead of just locating individual guns, etc., the radar was able to locate many simultaneously and group them into batteries with a centre point, dimensions and attitude of the long axis of the battery. This radar eventually reached service as Euro-ART's COunter Battery RAdar (COBRA (radar)) AESA system. 29 COBRA systems were produced and delivered in a roll-out which was completed in Aug. 2007 (12 to Germany – out of which two were re-sold to Turkey, 10 to France and 7 to the UK). Three additional systems were ordered in Feb. 2009 by the United Arab Emirates Armed Forces. Simultaneous with the development of COBRA, Norway and Sweden developed a smaller, more mobile counter-battery radar known as ARTHUR. It was taken into service in 1999 and is today used by 7 NATO countries and The Republic Of South Korea. New versions of ARTHUR have twice the accuracy of the original.\n\nOperations in Iraq and Afghanistan led to a new need for a small counter-mortar radar for use in forward operating bases, providing 360 degree coverage and requiring a minimal crew. In another back to the future step it has also proved possible to add counter-battery software to battlefield airspace surveillance radars.\n\nThe basic technique is to track a projectile for sufficient time to record a segment of the trajectory. This is usually done automatically, but some early and not so early radars required the operator to manually track the projectile. Once a trajectory segment is captured it can then be processed to determine its point of origin on the ground. Before digital terrain databases this involved manual iteration with a paper map to check the altitude at the coordinates, change the location altitude and recompute the coordinates until a satisfactory location was found.\n\nThe additional problem was finding the projectile in flight in the first place. The conical shaped beam of a traditional radar had to be pointing in the right direction, and to have sufficient power and accuracy the beam couldn't have too large an angle, typically about 25 degrees, which made finding projectile quite difficult. One technique was to deploy listening posts that told the radar operator roughly where to point the beam, in some cases the radar didn't switch on until this point to make it less vulnerable to electronic counter-measures (ECM). However, conventional radar beams were not notably effective.\n\nSince a parabola is defined by just two points, then tracking a segment of the trajectory was not notably efficient. The Royal Radar Establishment in the UK developed a different approach for their Green Archer system. Instead of a conical beam, the radar signal was produced in the form of a fan, about 40 degrees wide and 1 degree high. A Foster scanner modified the signal to cause it to focus on a horizontal location that rapidly scanned back and forth. This allowed it to comprehensively scan a small \"slice\" of the sky. The operator would watch for mortar bombs to pass through the slice, locating its range with pulse timing, its horizontal location by the location of the Foster scanner at that instant, and its vertical location from the known angle of the thin beam. The operator would then flick the antenna to a second angle facing higher into the air, and wait for the signal to appear there. This produced the necessary two points that could be processed by an analogue computer. A similar system was the US AN/MPQ-4, although this was a somewhat later design and somewhat more automated as a result.\n\nHowever, once phased array radars compact enough for field use and with reasonable digital computing power appeared they offered a better solution. A phased array radar has many transmitter/receiver modules which use differential tuning to rapidly scan up to a 90 degree arc without moving the antenna. They can detect and track anything in their field of view, providing they have sufficient computing power. They can filter out the targets of no interest (e.g., aircraft) and depending on their capability track a useful proportion of the rest.\n\nCounter-battery radars used to be mostly X band because this offers the greatest accuracy for the small radar targets. However, in the radars produced today, C band and S band are common. The Ku band has also been used. Projectile detection ranges are governed by the radar cross section (RCS) of the projectiles. Typical RCS are:\n\n\nThe best modern radars can detect howitzer shells at around 30 km and rockets/mortars at 50+ km. Of course, the trajectory has to be high enough to be seen by the radar at these ranges, and since the best locating results for guns and rockets are achieved with a reasonable length of trajectory segment close to the gun, long range detection does not guarantee good locating results. The accuracy of location is typically given by a circular error probable (CEP) (the circle around the target in which 50% of locations will fall) expressed as a percentage of range. Modern radars typically give CEPs around 0.3–0.4% of range. However, with these figures long range accuracy may be insufficient to satisfy the Rules of Engagement for counter-battery fire in counter insurgency operations.\n\nRadars typically have a crew of 4–8 soldiers, although only one is needed to actually operate the radar. Older types were mostly trailer mounted with a separate generator, so took 15–30 minutes to bring into action and need a larger crew. However, self-propelled ones have been used since the 1960s. To produce accurate locations radars have to know their own precise coordinates and be precisely oriented. Until about 1980 this relied on conventional artillery survey, although gyroscopic orientation from the mid-1960s helped. Modern radars have an integral Inertial Navigation System, often aided by GPS.\n\nRadars can detect projectiles at considerable distances, and larger projectiles give stronger reflected signals (RCS). Detection ranges depend on capturing at least several seconds of a trajectory and can be limited by the radar horizon and the height of the trajectory. For non-parabolic trajectories, it is also important to capture a trajectory as close as possible to its source in order to obtain the necessary accuracy.\n\nAction on locating hostile artillery depends on policy and circumstances. In some armies, radars may have authority to send target details to counter-battery fire units and order them to fire, in others they may merely report data to an HQ that then takes action. Modern radars usually record the target as well as the firing position of hostile artillery. However, this is usually for intelligence purposes because there is seldom time to alert the target with sufficient warning time in a battlefield environment, even with data communications. However, there are exceptions. The new Lightweight Counter Mortar Radar (LCMR – AN/TPQ 48) is crewed by two soldiers and designed to be deployed inside forward positions, in these circumstances it can immediately alert adjacent troops as well as pass target data to mortars close by for counter-fire. Similar situation for the new GA10 (Ground Alerter 10) radar qualified and successfully deployed by the French land forces in several different FOBs worldwide.\n\nRadars are vulnerable and high-value targets; they are easy to detect and locate if the enemy has the necessary ELINT/ESM capability. The consequences of this detection are likely to be attack by artillery fire or aircraft (including anti-radiation missiles) or electronic countermeasures. The usual measures against detection are using a radar horizon to screen from ground-based detection, minimising transmission time and using alerting arrangements to tell the radar when hostile artillery is active. Deploying radars singly and moving frequently reduces exposure to attack.\n\nHowever, in low-threat environments, such as the Balkans in the 1990s, they may transmit continuously and deploy in clusters to provide all-around surveillance.\n\nIn other circumstances, particularly counter-insurgency, where ground attack with direct fire or short range indirect fire is the main threat, radars deploy in defended localities but do not need to move, unless they need to cover a different area.\n\nCounter-battery radars operate at microwave frequencies with relatively high average energy consumption (up to the tens of kilowatts). The area immediately forward of the radar array for high energy radars is dangerous to human health. The intense radar waves of systems like the AN/TPQ-36 can also detonate electrically fused ammunition at short ranges.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "943082", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=943082", "title": "Croatian–Slovene Peasant Revolt", "text": "Croatian–Slovene Peasant Revolt\n\nThe Croatian–Slovene Peasant Revolt (), Gubec's Rebellion () or Gubec's peasant uprising of 1573 was a large peasant revolt on territory forming modern-day Croatia and Slovenia. The revolt, sparked by cruel treatment of serfs by Baron Ferenc Tahy, ended after 12 days with the defeat of the rebels and bloody retribution by the nobility.\n\nIn the late 16th century, the threat of Ottoman incursions strained the economy of the southern flanks of the Holy Roman Empire, and feudal lords continually increased their demands on the peasantry. In Croatian Zagorje, this was compounded by cruel treatment of peasants by baron Ferenc Tahy and his disputes with neighbouring barons over land, dating back to 1564, which escalated into armed conflicts. When multiple complaints to the emperor went unheard, the peasants conspired to rebel with their peers in the neighbouring provinces of Styria and Carniola and with the lower classes of townspeople.\n\nThe rebellion broke out simultaneously in large parts of Croatia, Styria, and Carniola on 28 January 1573. The rebels' political program was to replace the nobility with peasant officials answerable directly to the emperor, and to abolish all feudal holdings and obligations of the Roman Catholic Church. A peasant government was formed with Matija Gubec, Ivan Pasanec and Ivan Mogaić as members. Far-reaching plans were drawn up, including abolition of provincial borders, opening of highways for trade, and self-rule by the peasants.\n\nThe captain of the rebels, Ilija Gregorić, planned an extensive military operation to secure victory for the revolt. Each peasant household provided one man for his army, which met with some initial success; their revolutionary goals alarmed the nobility, however, which raised armies in response. The rebels used a network of informers who relayed the information on movements of the opposing units; in turn, spies among the peasants themselves passed the information on the spread of the rebellion to the nobility.\n\nOn 5 February, Uskok captain and baron Jobst Joseph von Thurn () led an army of 500 Uskoks from Kostanjevica and some German soldiers that defeated a rebel detachment of Nikola Kupinič at Krško (in Lower Styria), which was the first larger rebel defeat. This rapidly weakened the rebellion in Carniola and Styria.\n\nThe next day, another rebel force was defeated near Samobor. On 9 February, the decisive Battle of Stubičko polje was fought. Gubec and his 10,000 men resisted fiercely, but after a bloody four-hour battle the baronial army defeated and captured Gubec. The revolt failed.\n\nRetribution was brutal: in addition to the 3,000 peasants who died in the battle, many captives were hanged or maimed. Matija Gubec was publicly tortured and executed on 15 February. Officers Petar Ljubojević, Vuk Suković and Dane Bolčeta (who were Orthodox), and Juraj Martijanović and Tomo Tortić (Catholics) were all sentenced to life in prison and lost all their property. Mogaić was killed in the final battle, and Pasanec was most probably killed in one of the skirmishes in early February, while Gregorić managed to escape, but was captured within weeks, brought to Vienna for interrogation, and executed in Zagreb in 1574.\n\nThe revolt and torture of Gubec acquired legendary status in Croatia and Slovenia. It has inspired many writers and artists, including the writers Miroslav Krleža and August Šenoa, the poet Anton Aškerc and the sculptors Antun Augustinčić and Stojan Batič. Leading Croatian film director Vatroslav Mimica produced the film about uprising, entitled \"Anno Domini 1573\", in 1975, as well as television series in four parts. \"Gubec-beg\", the first Croatian rock opera (1975), was also inspired by the events.\n\nA museum near Oršić Castle in Gornja Stubica and one in Krško (Slovenia) are dedicated to the revolt.\n\nA reenactment of the Battle of Stubičko polje, held every year since 2008, has since become one of the most popular historical reenactments in Croatia.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55648078", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55648078", "title": "Direct rule", "text": "Direct rule\n\nDirect rule is when an imperial or central power takes direct control over the legislature, executive and civil administration of an otherwise largely self-governing territory.\n\nIn 2017, the Parliament of Catalonia unilaterally declared independence from Spain amid a constitutional crisis over the result of the independence referendum.. The Spanish Senate triggered Article 155 of the Spanish Constitution of 1978, and Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy dismissed the Executive Council of Catalonia, dissolving the Parliament of Catalonia.\n\nIn 1991, Chechnya declared independence and was named the Chechen Republic of Ichkeria. Russian army forces invaded in 1994 and again in 1999 in response to the War of Dagestan. By early 2000, Russia almost completely destroyed Grozny and put Chechnya under direct control of Moscow. The Russian government declared that the conflict ended in 2002 but operations continued until 2009.\n\nDirect rule has occurred over India by the British Raj, and within India under the system of President's rule.\n\nThe British Raj was the rule by the British Crown in the Indian subcontinent between 1858 and 1947. The region under British control was commonly called \"India\" in contemporaneous usage, and included areas directly administered by the United Kingdom, which were collectively called British India, and those ruled by indigenous rulers, but under British tutelage or paramountcy, and called the princely states. The \"de facto\" political amalgamation was also called the \"Indian Empire\" and after 1876 issued passports under that name.\n\nAs India, it was a of the League of Nations, a participating nation in the Summer Olympics in 1900, 1920, 1928, 1932, and 1936, and a founding member of the United Nations in San Francisco in 1945.\n\nThis system of governance was instituted on 28 June 1858, when, after the Indian Rebellion of 1857, the rule of the British East India Company was transferred to the Crown in the person of Queen Victoria (who, in 1876, was proclaimed Empress of India). It lasted until 1947, when Britain′s Indian Empire was partitioned into two sovereign dominion states: the Dominion of India (later the Republic of India) and the Dominion of Pakistan (later the Islamic Republic of Pakistan, the eastern part of which, still later, became the People's Republic of Bangladesh). At the inception of the Raj in 1858, Lower Burma was already a part of British India; Upper Burma was added in 1886, and the resulting union, Burma, was administered as an autonomous province until 1937, when it became a separate British colony, gaining its own independence in 1948.\n\nIn the Republic of India, \"President's rule\" refers to the imposition of Article 356 of the Constitution of India on a state whose constitutional body has failed. In the event that a state government is unable to function, the Constitution provides for the state to come under the direct control of the central government. In other words, it is \"under the President's rule\". Subsequently, executive authority is exercised through the centrally appointed governor, who has the authority to appoint retired civil servants or other administrators to assist him.\n\nWhen a state government is functioning correctly, it is run by an elected Council of Ministers responsible to the state's legislative assembly (Vidhan Sabha). The council is led by the Chief Minister, who is the \"de facto\" chief executive of the state; the Governor is only a \"de jure\" constitutional head. However, during President's rule, the Council of Ministers is dissolved, vacating the office of Chief Minister. Furthermore, the Vidhan Sabha is either prorogued or dissolved, necessitating a fresh election.\n\nSimilarly, in the state of Jammu and Kashmir, failure of governmental function results in \"Governor's rule\", imposed by invoking Section 92 of the Constitution of Jammu and Kashmir. The state’s governor issues the proclamation, after obtaining the consent of the President of India. If it is not possible to revoke Governor's rule within six months of imposition, the President's Rule under Article 356 of the Indian Constitution is imposed. There is little practical difference between the two provisions.\n\nFollowing its landmark judgment in the 1994 \"Bommai\" case, the Supreme Court of India has restricted arbitrary impositions of President's rule. \n\nChhattisgarh and Telangana are the only states where President's rule has yet to be imposed. However, while Telangana was part of Andhra Pradesh, it was under President's rule.\n\nFrench administration in Indochina began on June 5, 1862. Following the defeat of Vietnamese, the Treaty of Saigon ceded Cochinchina's three eastern provinces. Later, the French forced Emperor Tự Đức to place Cambodia under French protection. On June 18, 1867, the French seized the rest of Cochinchina and conquered the Mekong Delta and later Hanoi. By 1897, France controlled all of Indochina.\n\nOfficially, each of the provinces – Cambodia, Laos, Annam, Tonkin, Cochinchina and Kouang-Tchéou-Wan – had different legal statuses. In practice, however, all were ruled directly. The French adopted a policy of assimilation rather than association. The Declaration of Rights of Man was based on the principle of egalité, liberté and fraternité for all subjects and citizens of France, and the colonies could not be an exception. French language was to be the language of administration. The whole Indochina would be “Frenchized”. Napoleonic Code was introduced in 1879 into the five provinces, sweeping away the Confucianism that has existed for centuries in Indochina.\n\nThe Parliament of the United Kingdom has granted powers to the Scottish Parliament, the National Assembly for Wales, the Northern Ireland Assembly and the London Assembly and to their associated executive bodies. This devolution may be suspended and replaced by direct rule by the Government of the United Kingdom.\n\nDirect rule occurred in Northern Ireland from 1972 to 1998 during the Troubles, and for shorter periods between then and 2007. Major policy was determined by the British Government's Northern Ireland Office, under the direction of the Secretary of State for Northern Ireland. Legislation was introduced, amended, or repealed by means of Order in Council. Everyday matters were handled by government departments within Northern Ireland itself, and Northern Ireland continued to elect members of parliament to the Parliament of the United Kingdom.\n\nDirect colonial rule was a form of colonialism that involves the establishment of a centralized foreign authority within a territory, which is run by colonial officials. The native population may be excluded from all but the lowest level of the colonial government.\n\nIndirect rule is a system of government used by the British and French to control parts of their colonial empires, particularly in Africa and Asia, through pre-existing local power structures. These dependencies were often called \"protectorates\" or \"trucial states\". By this system, the day-to-day government and administration of areas both small and large was left in the hands of traditional rulers, who gained prestige and the stability and protection afforded by the Pax Britannica, at the cost of losing control of their external affairs, and often of taxation, communications, and other matters, usually with a small number of European \"advisors\" effectively overseeing the government of large numbers of people spread over extensive areas.\n"}
{"id": "48047", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48047", "title": "Engrish", "text": "Engrish\n\nEngrish is a slang term for the misuse or corruption of the English language by native speakers of Asian languages. The term itself relates to Japanese speakers' tendency to inadvertently substitute the English phonemes \"R\" and \"L\" for one another, a process known as Lallation, because, unlike English, the Japanese language has only one liquid consonant (traditionally romanized with \"R\"). The related term \"wasei-eigo\" refers to pseudo-anglicisms that have entered into everyday Japanese.\n\nWhile the term may refer to spoken English, it is more often used to describe written English. In Japan, it is common to add English text to items for decorative and fashion purposes. Such text is often added to create a cosmopolitan feeling rather than to be read by native English speakers, and so may often be meaningless or grammatically incorrect.\n\nEngrish can be found in many places, including signs, menus, and advertisements. Terms such as \"Japanglish\", \"Japlish\" or \"Janglish\" for Japan, \"Konglish\" for Korea, and \"Chinglish\" for China are more specific terms for Engrish.\n\nThere are two contributing factors to Japanese Engrish. Firstly, the two languages have significantly different grammar: Japanese word order, the frequent omission of subjects in Japanese, the absence of articles, a near-complete absence of consecutive consonants, and difficulties in distinguishing /l/ and /r/, or /θ/ and /s/ sounds, all contribute to substantial problems using Standard English effectively. Indeed, Japanese have tended to score comparatively poorly on international tests of English.\n\nSecondly, English is frequently used in Japan for aesthetic rather than functional purposes; i.e., for Japanese consumption, not for English speakers \"per se\", as a way of appearing \"smart, sophisticated and modern\", in much the same way as Japanese and similar writing scripts are used in Western fashion. Indeed, it is claimed that in such decorative English \"there is often no attempt to try to get it right, nor do the vast majority of the Japanese population ever attempt to read the English design element in question. There is therefore less emphasis on checking spelling and grammatical accuracy.\"\n\nEnglish is taught in Japanese schools with an emphasis on writing and grammar over speaking. The written word is taught using Romaji (Latin script); however, the correct pronunciation of the Romaji letters is not taught. The spoken word is taught using Katakana script. Katakana is a syllabary like Hiragana but is used specifically (inter alia) – analogously to italics in the Latin script – to denote foreign words (not just English, but also French, German etc.). Katakana script is used in daily life for many foreign words used with Japanese (\"Gairaigo\").\n\nThe limitations of the Katakana script mean that R and L sounds are not differentiated; and similarly the sounds F and H are expressed by only one character. Furthermore, as Katakana is made up of syllables, not individual letters, there are usually included vowels that should be ignored in a Katakana English word, but are frequently pronounced. Conversely, soft letters are ignored. For example, the English word \"start\" used when referring to a race, is written in Katakana as スタート (su-tā-to). The restricted nature of the Katakana set of syllables is what causes the Engrish pronunciation. The answer to this is to teach spoken English using the Latin alphabet. Many Japanese people know how to write English very well, but are not confident speakers due to this issue. It is not uncommon to receive a perfectly well-composed e-mail in English from a Japanese person, only to find that in person they will not attempt to speak English, preferring to apologise that they cannot speak, only write English.\n\nInstances of Engrish due to poor translation were frequently found in many early video games produced in Japan, often due to the creators not having enough (or not wanting to spend enough) money for proper translations. One well-known example of Engrish in pop culture is the translation of the video game \"Zero Wing\" which gave birth to the phenomenon All your base are belong to us, which also became an Internet meme. This phenomenon is parodied in \"\", in which the character Fawful speaks Engrish. In the Japanese version of \"\" (in which Fawful also appears as the main antagonist), in the same subseries, the character Broque Monsieur also speaks Engrish.\n\nEngrish has been featured occasionally in the Trey Parker and Matt Stone cartoon \"South Park\", such as the song \"Let's Fighting Love\", used in the episode \"Good Times with Weapons\", which parodies the poorly translated opening theme sequences sometimes shown in anime, and in Parker and Stone's feature length \"\" where the North Korean leader Kim Jong Il is depicted singing the song \"I'm so Ronery\".\n\nThe British fashion brand Superdry, in a reverse parody of the phenomenon, has established a style of placing meaningless Japanese text such as 'Sunglasses company' and 'membership certificate' on clothing sold in Britain. The company explained to a Japanese television crew that most translations were done using simple automatic translation programs such as Babelfish.\n\n\"Monty Python's Flying Circus\" featured a parody of the drama series \"Elizabeth R\", where they portrayed the cast riding motor-scooters and speaking Engrish, thus changing the title to \"Erizabeth L\".\n\nIn the 1983 film \"A Christmas Story\", the Parker family goes to a Chinese restaurant for their Christmas dinner, and are serenaded by the waitstaff with Engrish Christmas carols, such as \"Deck the harrs wis boughs of horry, fa ra ra ra ra ra ra ra ra\" and \"Jingre berrs, jingre berrs, jingre arr the way, oh what fun it is to ride in one-horse open sreigh!\"\n\n"}
{"id": "53083351", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53083351", "title": "Executive Order 13770", "text": "Executive Order 13770\n\nExecutive Order 13770, entitled \"Ethics Commitments by Executive Branch Appointees,\" is an executive order issued by US President Donald Trump on January 28, 2017, that directs executive branch employees on a ban from becoming a lobbyist for five years.\n\nEthics Pledge. Every appointee in every executive agency appointed on or after January 20, 2017, shall sign, and upon signing shall be contractually committed to, the following pledge upon becoming an appointee:\n\nThe executive order directs executive branch employees on a ban on lobbying any government official for two years and the agency they worked in for five years. It also prevents them from ever lobbying the US on behalf of a foreign government or foreign political parties. If someone is found guilty of not complying with the order, they could be barred for another five years on top of the order's five years for a total of ten years. Section 3 provides that the president may grant a waiver to any person of any restriction contained in the pledge. The order does not explain on what grounds a waiver may be granted. The order has a lifetime ban on lobbying for foreign governments.\n\n\"NPR\"s Tamara Keith states, \"As Trump's team drafted his order on ethics, they appear to have borrowed heavily from the language used in orders signed by both Clinton and President Obama. Obama also pulled from Clinton, in parts and the ethics directive signed by President George W. Bush is nearly identical to the one signed by his father twelve years earlier. But that's less surprising given those were presidents using the language of their predecessor from the same party. Perhaps more importantly, Trump not only seems to be lifting from Democratic presidents' language, but they are presidents he has condemned, including for not \"draining the swamp\".\" \"The story here is not the copying per se, it is the claim Trump has been making that he is doing something really different, new, and righteous when, apparently, in many respects he is actually copying Democrats he so thoroughly condemned as corrupt,\" said John Woolley, a professor at UC Santa Barbara and co-director of the Presidency Project. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "317024", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=317024", "title": "Federal Charter of 1291", "text": "Federal Charter of 1291\n\nThe Federal Charter or Letter of Alliance () documents the Eternal Alliance or League of the Three Forest Cantons (), the union of three cantons in what is now central Switzerland. It is dated in early August 1291 and initiates the current 1 August Swiss National Day. This agreement, in Latin, cites a previous (lost or most likely not existent in written form) similar pact. It is currently exhibited at the Museum of the Swiss Charters of Confederation in Schwyz.\n\nThis inaugural confederation grew through a long series of accessions to modern Switzerland. The Alliance was concluded between the people of the alpine areas of Uri, Schwyz and Unterwalden (). The participants are referred to as \"conspirati\" and (synonymously) \"coniurati\", traditionally translated in German as \"Eidgenossen\" (and in English as \"Confederates\").\n\nThe charter was set up as a canon for judicature and defence purposes (only two of seven paragraphs address foreign dangers), probably prompted by the death of Rudolf I of Habsburg on 15 July 1291 to ensure legal certainty.\n\nThe authenticity of the letter used to be disputed as a supposed modern forgery but modern historians now agree that it is certainly a product of the 14th century: In 1991, the parchment was radiocarbon dated to between 1252 and 1312 (with a certainty of 85%). The document is thus certainly not a late forgery tied to the emergence of the modern federal state in 1848. It should rather be seen in the context of chapter 15 of the Golden Bull of 1356, where Charles IV outlawed any \"conjurationes, confederationes,\" and \"conspirationes\", meaning in particular the city alliances (\"Städtebünde\"), but also other communal leagues that had sprung up through the communal movement in medieval Europe. It should be mentioned that it was very common to produce documents only when needed in this period; agreements were made by word of mouth (which is still a legal form of contract in Switzerland today), which means the date of any documents was subject to \"moving\" through time to meet the purpose of the document.\n\nThe abovementioned museum shows the following additional charters:\n\nThe charter of 1291 became important in the historiography of Switzerland only in the late 19th century. \nPreviously, the date of the foundation of the Confederacy was traditionally given as 1307 (Aegidius Tschudi);\nthis is still the year inscribed on the Tell Monument, commissioned in 1895.\nThe idea of the charter of 1291 representing the founding document of the Confederacy was first suggested in a report by the Federal Department of Home Affairs of 21 November 1889, in the context of a proposed combined celebration of the 700th anniversary of the foundation of Bern and the 600th anniversary of the Confederacy in 1891. Celebration of a national holiday on 1 August based on the date on the document was first suggested in 1899 (although it was introduced officially only in 1994).\n\nThe idea to build a dedicated national monument housing the foundational documents of the Confederacy\nwas first proposed in 1891 by federal councillors Emil Welti and Carl Schenk. \nThis plan was revisited in 1915 during the preparation of the 600th anniversary celebration for the Battle of Morgarten, but its realisation was delayed due to World War I.\nAfter the war, the canton of Schwyz requested federal support for the project, which was granted in 1928.\nDesigned by Joseph Beeler in 1933, the \"Bundesbriefarchiv\" (Federal Charter Archive) was opened in 1936.\nIn 1979/80, the exhibition hall was renovated, and restoration work was carried out on the 21 banners and flags displayed in the museum. \nIn 1998/99, the exhibition was re-arranged. In the meantime, the institution changed its name to \"Bundesbriefmuseum\" (Museum of the Swiss Charters of Confederation).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3954197", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3954197", "title": "Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976", "text": "Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976\n\nThe Federal Land Policy and Management Act, or FLPMA (), is a United States federal law that governs the way in which the public lands administered by the Bureau of Land Management are managed. The law was enacted in 1976 by the 94th Congress and is found in the United States Code under Title 43. The Federal Land Policy and Management Act phased out homesteading in the United States by repealing the pre-existing Homestead Acts.\n\nCongress recognized the value of the public lands, declaring that these lands would remain in public ownership. The National Forest Service, National Park Service, and now, the Bureau of Land Management, are commissioned in FLPMA to allow a variety of uses on their land (of greater concern for the BLM, who is the least restrictive in terms of uses) while simultaneously trying to preserve the natural resources in them. This concept is best summarized by the term 'multiple-use.' 'Multiple use' is defined in the Act as \"management of the public lands and their various resource values so that they are utilized in the combination that will best meet the present and future needs of the American people.\" FLPMA addresses topics such as land-use planning, land acquisition, fees and payments, administration of federal land, range management, and right-of-ways on federal land. FLPMA has specific objectives and time frames in which to accomplish these objectives, giving it more authority and eliminating the uncertainty surrounding the BLM’s role in wilderness designation and management. \n\nParts of FLPMA relating specifically to Wilderness are found in Subchapter VI \"Designated Management Areas (§§ 1781 to 1787)\" under \"43 U.S. Code § 1782 - Bureau of Land Management Wilderness Study.\" Here, the BLM is also given power to designate Wilderness and are given 15 years to do so. The BLM is to conduct studies, classifying areas as 'Wilderness Study Areas.' These areas are not official Wilderness areas but are, for all intents and purposes, treated as such until formal adoption as Wilderness by Congress. Approximately 8.8 million acres of BLM wilderness are currently included in the National Wilderness Preservation System as a result of the wilderness reviews mandated by FLPMA. Those ordered to implement policies from FLPMA are trained government employees using guidelines expressly stated within the act itself. \n\n"}
{"id": "37986494", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37986494", "title": "Freedom of the Press Foundation", "text": "Freedom of the Press Foundation\n\nFreedom of the Press Foundation (FPF) is a non-profit organization founded in 2012 to fund and support free speech and freedom of the press. Its mission includes \"promoting and funding aggressive, public-interest journalism focused on exposing mismanagement, corruption, and law-breaking in government\", and it runs crowd-funding campaigns for independent journalistic organizations.\n\nThe organization's board of directors has included prominent journalists and whistleblowers such as Daniel Ellsberg, Laura Poitras, Glenn Greenwald, and Xeni Jardin, as well as activists, celebrities, and filmmakers. NSA whistleblower Edward Snowden joined FPF's board of directors in 2014 and began serving as its president in early 2016. Jardin left the board in 2016.\n\nThe organization's founding was inspired by the WikiLeaks financial blockade. When FPF launched in late 2012, it was the first time people could donate to WikiLeaks via Visa, MasterCard, and PayPal since the payment processors cut off WikiLeaks in late 2010. In December 2017, after five years of processing donations on behalf of WikiLeaks, FPF's board unanimously found that the blockade was no longer in effect, and severed ties with WikiLeaks as of January 8, 2018.\n\nFPF has also crowd-funded support for a variety of other transparency journalism organizations, as well as encryption tools used by journalists, including: WikiLeaks, MuckRock, the National Security Archive, The UpTake, The Bureau of Investigative Journalism, the Center for Public Integrity, Truthout, the LEAP Encryption Access Project, Open Whisper Systems, Tails, and the Tor Project.\n\nIn May 2013, FPF raised over $100,000 online donations to hire a professional court stenographer to take transcripts during the trial of whistleblower Chelsea Manning after the government refused to make its transcripts available to the public. They posted the transcripts online at the end of each day of the trial for members of the media to use in their reports. Secrecy expert Steven Aftergood later called the crowd-funding effort \"unprecedented,\" saying \"it eloquently demonstrated public expectations of openness...the court and the prosecutors may have been shamed into reconsidering their habitual secrecy.\" \n\nIn October 2014, FPF raised over $28,000 for New Zealand independent journalist Nicky Hager to fund his legal challenge against the government of New Zealand after his house was raided by police following a book he wrote. A court later ruled the raid of Hager's house was illegal.\n\nIn 2015, FPF raised more than $125,000 online for Chelsea Manning's legal defense stemming from her conviction under the Espionage Act for leaking information to WikiLeaks. Notwithstanding the January 2017 commutation of her sentence and May 2017 release from prison, Manning's military appeal is ongoing.\n\nAs of June 2018, FPF accepts donations with crypto-currencies, including Bitcoin, Bitcoin Cash, Ethereum, Litecoin and Zcash.\n\nIn October 2013, FPF took over the development of SecureDrop, an open source whistleblower submission system developed in part by the late programmer and transparency activist Aaron Swartz., who developed it with Kevin Poulsen and James Dolan. Dolan moved it to FPF upon the death of Swartz. The SecureDrop system facilitates anonymous communication between two parties using the Tor Network, and allows whistleblowers to contact journalists without ever exchanging one another's identities or contact information.\n\nThe system is now is in use at over two dozen major news organizations, including \"The Washington Post\", \"The Guardian\", \"The New Yorker\", ProPublica, Gawker, \"HuffPost\", and \"The Intercept\". According to a study done by Columbia Journalism School, it has since successfully led to the publication of many stories at the news organizations that use it.\n\nFPF also teaches journalists how to use other encryption and digital security tools to better protect their sources.\n\nIn collaboration with The Guardian Project, FPF released a free and open-source mobile app named Haven in 2017. Haven turns an Android device into a security sensor and, optionally, alerts the device owner to activity occurring in its vicinity.\n\nFreedom of the Press Foundation has been involved in several Freedom of Information Act cases surrounding journalists' rights and government transparency.\n\nIn January 2016, FPF's lawsuit against the Justice Department revealed that the US government has secret rules for targeting journalists with National Security Letters (NSLs) and FISA court orders.\n\nIn March 2016, another FPF lawsuit showed that the Obama administration secretly lobbied against bipartisan Freedom of Information Act reform in Congress, despite the bill being based word-for-word on the Obama administration's supposed transparency guidelines.\n\nFPF co-founders Daniel Ellsberg, John Perry Barlow, Trevor Timm, and Rainey Reitman won the 2013 Hugh Hefner First Amendment award for their role in founding FPF. The organization was the recipient of the Society of Professional Journalists' James Madison award in 2016.\n\n"}
{"id": "43725343", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43725343", "title": "Galiza Nova", "text": "Galiza Nova\n\nGaliza Nova (\"Young Galiza\") is the youth organisation of the Galician Nationalist Bloc, founded in 1988.\n\nGaliza Nova is the youth organisation of the Galician Nationalist Bloc (BNG) whose basic function is the organisation and mobilization of youth in order to achieve the national liberation of Galicia and the social transformation of the modern society. Its operation is based on assemblearism, with a decentralized structure divided in local and regional assemblies. The highest political body is the National Assembly that is held every two years, and where all the membership has the right to attend.\n\nAlthough originally it was an independent organisation, it quickly began to work as the youth organisation of the Galician Nationalist Bloc, until the II Assembly (Compostela, 1990), absorbed ERGA and the Union of the Galician Youth, approved the admission into the BNG. They define their political objectives as the: \"national liberation and the transformation of society (without national, class or gender oppression/exploitation and totally demilitarized),\" claim a fully sovereign Galiza as the final culmination of the process of national self-determination. Galiza Nova also defends that the relationship between the different nations of the world should be based on equality and internationalist solidarity. Galiza Nova is also against the NATO and defends an Europe of the peoples as opposed to the current European Union of the states. Until its abolition in 2002, the organisation was a strong opponent of conscription and supported insubordination against it.\n\nGaliza Nova was opposed to the ratification of the European Constitution, the Organic Law on Universities and the Organic Law of Education, the war in Iraq, holding a Council of Ministers in A Coruña (during the crisis caused by the sinking of the Prestige oil spill), the celebration of a military parade of the Spanish Armed Forces and the placing a large Spanish flag in the same city and recently showed his support for Hugo Chávez, Evo Morales and Fidel Castro with the slogan \"Only the peoples that struggle win. Galiza with the revolution.\" Galiza Nova had an internal crisis between 2009 and 2012 due to the political differences between Isca!, the Galician Nationalist Youth and the Union of the Galician Youth which ended with the victory of the Union of the Galician Youth, the departures of Isca! and the Galician Nationalist Youth from the organisation and the split of the Galician Student League and the Movemento Estudantil Universitario from the Comités.\n\nIn 2013 and 2014 Galiza Nova organised, along with other youth organisations and 3 student unions, demonstrations for the independence of Galicia the eve of the Día Nacional de Galicia.\n\nThe Festigal is festival organised by Galiza Nova every 24 and 25 of July. It has concerts, sporting activities, talks and debates. It's one of the most important festivals of Galicia, with a record attendance of 100,000 people.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33619589", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33619589", "title": "Goeckerman therapy", "text": "Goeckerman therapy\n\nGoeckerman therapy is a regimen for treatment of moderate to severe plaque psoriasis using a combination of crude coal tar and artificial ultraviolet radiation. It is a specialized form of light therapy.\n\nFirst formulated in 1925 by American dermatologist William H. Goeckerman (1884–1954), Goeckerman therapy continues to be used due to its efficacy and safety profile. Individual institutions have modified the Goeckerman regimen and developed their own protocols. Standard therapy includes use of 2–4% crude coal tar in a petroleum base applied daily to the psoriatic plaques. The minimum period of time for tar application is 2-hours, although it has been recognized that greater periods of time produce better results. The patient is then exposed to broad-band ultraviolet B (UVB) radiation, although narrow-band UVB may also be used. Laboratory studies have shown that the combination of coal tar and UV light reduces epidermal DNA synthesis.\n\nIn 1953, John Ingram, an English dermatologist, added topical anthralin paste to his Goeckerman regimen. This is known as the Ingram method.\n\nRecent publications have compared Goeckerman therapy with treatment with more expensive biologic agents. Historically, Goeckerman therapy was performed as an inpatient treatment. However, today the treatment can be done with reduced cost as an outpatient. It has been stated by de Miguel et al., that an annual three-week outpatient course of Goeckerman treatment costs $10,000 to 12,000 but repeat treatment may be extended to two years with the use of a $2,000 home UVB treatment lamp. The authors state that biologic therapy costs $22,000 to 59,000 per year.\n\nGoeckerman regimens use crude coal tar, which contains polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon, a carcinogen. However, Goeckerman therapy is considered safe although use of tar may have the side-effects of contact dermatitis and mild local burning due to tar hypersensitivity. A retrospective study by Stern et al., of 1,373 patients concluded that there was an increase in skin cancers in those receiving repeated Goeckerman treatments compared to the control group. This has been refuted by other authors, including Pittelkow et al., who state there has not been an increase in skin cancers among those treated compared to the general population and Menter and Cran, who felt that the Stern study was too crude to have validity and felt a 10-year prospective study would be needed to confirm safety concerns.\n\nWith the increased use of biologic medications in treatment of moderate-to-severe psoriasis there has been a shift away from Goeckerman therapy. A 2007 comparative study of psoriasis treatment found Goeckerman therapy to be more efficacious at 12-weeks than biologics. It has also been successfully used in patients who have failed some biologic therapies.\n"}
{"id": "5762023", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5762023", "title": "Grey Power", "text": "Grey Power\n\nGrey Power was an Australian political party and lobby group, first registered in 1983. At the federal elections of 1984 and 1987 it ran candidates, but on both occasions these candidates (who included former Liberal cabinet minister Bill Wentworth) did poorly. The group was designed to represent the elderly vote, advocating issues dealing with aged care and a mature perspective on national policy; hence the name \"grey power\".\n\nGrey Power ran in the 1989 Western Australian state election, garnering 5.2% of the total lower house vote. The last election which Grey Power contested was the 1997 South Australian state election, but then it only managed to receive 1.6% of the South Australian Legislative Council vote. Their preferences however significantly contributed to the election of Nick Xenophon.\n\nThe best result Grey Power ever achieved was at the 1994 Taylor state by-election in South Australia. Without a Liberal candidate in the running on this occasion, Grey Power took 13 percent of the primary vote and finished second after preferences had been distributed with a 27 percent two-candidate preferred vote.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2400005", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2400005", "title": "Habitual offender", "text": "Habitual offender\n\nA habitual offender, repeat offender or career criminal is a person convicted of a new crime who was previously convicted of a crime(s). Various state and jurisdictions may have laws targeting habitual offenders, and specifically providing for enhanced or exemplary punishments or other sanctions. They are designed to counter criminal recidivism by physical incapacitation via imprisonment.\n\nThe nature, scope and type of habitual offender statutes vary, but generally they apply when a person has been convicted twice for various crimes. Some codes may differentiate between classes of crimes (for example, some codes only deal with violent crime) and the length of time between convictions. Usually the sentence is greatly enhanced, in some circumstances it may be substantially more than the maximum sentence for the crime.\n\nHabitual offender laws may provide for mandatory sentencing - in which a minimum sentence must be imposed, or may allow judicial discretion in allowing the court to determine a proper sentence. One example of a habitual offender statute is a provision requiring the revocation of a driver's license for a person convicted multiple times of driving under the influence.\n\nThe practice of imposing longer prison sentences on repeat offenders than on first-time offenders who commit the same crime is not an innovation. For example, New York has a persistent felony offender law that dates back to the late 19th century. These early habitual offender laws did not provide for mandatory sentencing. \n\nIn Australia, various states and territories have adopted habitual offender legislation.\n\nUnder the provisions of the \"Habitual Criminals Act 1957\" (NSW), an offender can be designated a habitual criminal and given an additional protective sentence of between five and 14 years imprisonment. The offender must be at least 25 years of age, have served sentences for at least two indictable offenses, and the sentencing judge must decide that preventive detention is required to protect the public.\n\nAn offender who is at least 17 years of age and has been convicted of at least two violent or sexual offences can be declared a dangerous offender and detained indeterminately. A judge must consider the potential of future harm that could be caused by offenders, the circumstances of their offenses, medical and psychiatric opinion and any other matters of relevance. The decision passed by the court is not reviewable; the indeterminate sentence(s) commence upon the expiration of any determinate sentence imposed and release is by way of an order from the Supreme Court.\n\nThe \"Criminal Code Act 1913\" (WA) and the \"Crimes (Serious and Repeat Offenders) Act 1992 \"(WA) contain provisions for the indeterminate incarceration of youths and adults convicted of particular offenses. The indeterminate sentence(s) commence upon the expiration of any determinate sentence imposed, and release is through a Supreme Court Order or at the discretion of the Governor.\n\nThe \"Criminal Code Act 1983\" (NT) and the \"Criminal Law (Sentencing) Act 1988\" (SA) allow for the indeterminate incarceration of a person who is determined to be a habitual criminal and/or incapable of controlling their sexual urges.\n\nIn South Australia, the indeterminate sentence(s) commence upon the expiration of any determinate sentence imposed, and are reviewed every three years after that. Release is only by way of an order from the Supreme Court.\n\nIn the Northern Territory, a prisoner serving indefinite sentence(s) has a nominal sentence set at half the sentence that would have been imposed if not they were not dangerous, or 20 years (25 years in some circumstances) if the sentence imposed would have been one or more consecutive sentences of life imprisonment. The indeterminate sentence(s) must be reviewed by the court when the nominal sentence (the minimum term the offender would have been required to serve if they were \"not\" dangerous) has expired, and every three years after.\n\nThe \"Sentencing Act 2005\" (ACT), the \"Dangerous Prisoners (Sexual Offenders) Act 2003\" (Qld), and the \"Sentencing Act 1991\" (Vic) govern habitual offenders. An offender can be incarcerated indeterminately if there is a high probability, given the offender's character, the nature of their offense, psychiatric evidence as to the dangerousness of the defendant, and any other relevant circumstances, that the offender poses a serious threat to the community. The indeterminate sentence(s) must be reviewed by the court when the nominal sentence (the minimum term the offender would have been required to serve if they were \"not\" dangerous) has expired, and every three years after.\n\nThe minimum nominal sentence that can be imposed is ten years, but the sentencing judge can extend this if they believe that the prisoner's criminal history and/or the nature of the prisoner's offending warrants it.\n\nThe longest nominal sentence on sentence(s) of indeterminate imprisonment is 30 years, currently being served by serial pedophile Geoffrey Robert Dobbs (Queensland), who pleaded guilty to 124 sex offences and one count of attempting to pervert the course of justice committed against 63 girls aged between one month and 15 years (including five family members) under his care as a teacher and youth leader from 1972 to 2000.\n\nIn Canada, the Habitual Offender Act in Canada dealt with multiple offenders. The law was repealed after a Law Commission Report of 1969 found it to be erratically applied and was often used against non-violent and non-dangerous offenders. In 1977, Part XXIV of the Criminal Code was enacted for habitual offenders, providing for indeterminate or determinate sentences for offenders found to be dangerous who would be eligible for parole after three years and has the authority to extend such indeterminate non-parole period at any time.\n\nOn 1930, the town of Guangzhou enacted a mandatory death penalty for those offenders who received their third conviction.\n\nFrom 2007 to 2014, France had \"peines planchers\" (literally \"floor sentences\"), which set a minimum floor to the sentences of recidivist offenders.\n\nEnacted under President Nicolas Sarkozy, they were repealed under his successor François Hollande, which made this point a part of his platform.\n\nBased on earlier reform plans, the National Socialist regime issued in 1933 the so-called \"Gewohnheitsverbrechergesetz\" against 'criminals by habit'; not only was the punishment raised, it also introduced a preventive detention to be reconsidered every three years. After 1945, the Allied military governments did not contest this law, and its regulations were taken over in 1953 into the German penal code Strafgesetzbuch. In 1969, the liberalization of civil and penal law made it more difficult to impose preventive detention and other measures. Contrary to the situation in the USA, the discretion lies with the sentencing judge.\n\nIn Hungary, the Fidesz-dominated new parliament changed the Penal Code, introducing a \"three-strikes law\" for repeat offenders on June 8, 2010. The change has been signed into law.\n\nThe Criminal Tribes Act, 1872 was amended a number of times. After Independence, the leaders and social reformers paid attention to this problem. In 1949, the Central government appointed a committee to study the utility of the existence of this law. The committee viewed that the act was against the spirit of the Indian Constitution. It recommended suitable steps to be taken for amelioration of the pitiable conditions of the Criminal Tribes rather than stigmatising them as criminals. As a result, the Criminal Tribes Act of 1871 was repealed in 1952 and the Habitual Offenders Act was enacted in its place. According to the Habitual Offenders Act, a habitual offender is one who has been a victim of subjective and objective influences and has manifested a set practice in crime, and also presents a danger to the society in which they lives. The Habitual Offenders are usually hardened criminals whose major part of life has been spent in jails. It is because they commit offences at frequent intervals and are sent back to jail.\n\nSection 75 of the Pakistan Penal Code deals with Habitual Offenders. The provisions are activated upon a second conviction for a crime with a minimum sentence of three years imprisonment. The Guidelines for sentencing given to criminal court indicate that the discretion lies with the judge, and an enhanced sentence is not mandatory, and should usually not be given in less serious criminal cases (such as petty theft) or where the convictions are old. The judge is expected to adopt an individualized view and tailor both the decision of awarding an enhanced sentence and the length of it to the case at hand. For this the transcripts of the previous trials can be used.\n\nIn the United States, several state governments have passed laws which require the state courts to hand down a mandatory and extended sentences to habitual offenders (for example, making the repeated commission of the same misdemeanor a felony). Three strikes laws specifically target those who have been convicted of a serious criminal offense on three or more separate occasions.\n\nThere has been various criticism of Habitual Offender Laws. Some examples are included below.\n\nHabitual Offender laws, depending on their scope and discretionary room given to judges, can lead to persons being punished quite severely for relatively minor offenses. The discretionary nature of the laws means that they can be applied unevenly.\n\nIn Australia, laws relating to dangerous and Habitual offenders have been criticized as ignoring the principle of certainty in sentencing. Another major concern in Australia is the considerable disparity that exists in the requirements for dangerous offender status and in the available sentences for such offenders across jurisdictions. Age and offense requirements, indeterminate or fixed sentencing provisions, and review procedures are quite different from state to state; these inconsistencies have been removed to some extent in the past decade.\n\nSome unusual scenarios have arisen, particularly in California in the United States — the state punishes shoplifting and similar crimes involving over $500 in property as felony petty theft if the person who committed the crime has a prior conviction for any form of theft, including robbery or burglary. As a result, some defendants have been given sentences of 25 years to life in prison for such crimes as shoplifting golf clubs (Gary Ewing, previous strikes for burglary and robbery with a knife), nine videotapes (Leandro Andrade, 50 years to life for two counts of shoplifting), or, along with a violent assault, a slice of pepperoni pizza from a group of children (Jerry Dewayne Williams, four previous non-violent felonies, sentence later reduced to six years on appeal).\n\nHabitual Offender laws also give prosecutors more power to force a defendant to plea bargain, as often the only deviation from a mandatory minimum sentence is with prosecutor approval.\n\nThe laws have been challenged on the basis of violating fundamental rights.\n\nIn the US on March 5, 2003, the U.S. Supreme Court held by a 5–4 majority that such sentences do not violate the Eighth Amendment of the U.S. Constitution, which prohibits \"cruel and unusual punishment.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18265117", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18265117", "title": "Institute of Political Science of SAS", "text": "Institute of Political Science of SAS\n\nInstitute of Political Science of the Slovak Academy of Science (In Slovak: Ústav politických vied Slovenskej akadémie vied, ÚPV SAV) is a research institute of the Slovak Academy of Science. \n\nThe institute was established in 2002 as a result of transformation of the Institute of Politology of the Slovak Academy of Science. \nIts Director since 1998 has been PhDr. Miroslav Pekník CSc. (born 1950). \nThe actual address of the Institute is: Dúbravská cesta 9, Bratislava, Slovakia \n\nThe mission of the Institute is a basic research of domestic politics, international relations and recent Slovak political history. \n\nIt edited about 50 book publications.\nThe best contactact on an international level it has with partners from Poland and Czech Republic.\n\nThe staff of the Institute represents several prominent Slovak and Czech political scientists, historians and lawyers (e.g. Miroslav Peknik, Norbert Kmet, Peter Dinus, Jozef Jablonicky, Jozef Kiss, Oskar Krejci, Daniel Šmihula, Eva Jassova, Juraj Marusiak).\n\n"}
{"id": "42775621", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42775621", "title": "Jim Speechley", "text": "Jim Speechley\n\nWilliam James Speechley from Crowland is a former Conservative Party councillor and former leader of the Lincolnshire County Council. He was awarded a CBE in 1992, which was later stripped after his 2004 conviction for \"misconduct in a public office\" related to the route of the A1073 road (Spalding to Eye bypass), after not declaring a conflict of interest that land he owned would increase significantly in value as a result. It was confirmed in court that he instructed a planning officer to alter the road route to benefit his own land's value to a considerable extent. He was sentenced to 18 months in jail.\n"}
{"id": "29538235", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29538235", "title": "John Hart (spelling reformer)", "text": "John Hart (spelling reformer)\n\nJohn Hart (died 1574) was an English educator, grammarian, spelling reformer and officer of arms. He is best known for proposing a reformed spelling system for English, which has been described as \"the first truly phonological scheme\" in the history of early English spelling.\n\nHart is the author of three known works on grammar and spelling: an unpublished manuscript from 1551 titled \"The Opening of the Unreasonable Writing of Our Inglish Toung\"; a printed pamphlet titled \"An Orthographie\", published in 1569; and a practical reading primer titled \"A Methode or Comfortable Beginning for All Unlearned\", published in 1570. In these works, he criticises the contemporary spelling practices of his day as chaotic and illogical, and argues for a radically reformed orthography on purely phonological principles. His goal was to introduce a spelling system with a one-to-one relationship between sounds and symbols (\"to vse as many letters in our writing, as we doe voyces or breathes in speaking, and no more \"). For this purpose, he introduced six new phonetic consonant symbols for the sounds and syllabic \"l\", as well as a system of diacritics for vowels. Long vowels were systematically marked by a dot below the letter, while the reduced vowel schwa was marked by ë.\n\nHart's work has been lauded by modern linguists for his highly insightful phonetic analysis of the Early Modern English of his days, and for his thoroughness in pursuing the phonetic principle. His discussion of vowel pronunciations is particularly interesting to historians of the English language, because it documents the spoken English at an intermediate point during the Great Vowel Shift, which during Hart's days was radically transforming the vowel system of English. Thus, for instance, Hart documents that the pronunciation of words that had Middle English long but shifted to in Modern English was still variable in his days, with some speakers retaining in some words, but a diphthong (spelled \"ei\" by Hart) already common in others.\n\nThe following passage from Hart's \"Orthographie\", in his original spelling, illustrates the system. (For technical reasons, Hart's six new consonant symbols have here been replaced by their equivalent modern IPA symbols.)\n\nAs an officer of arms, John Hart held the title of Chester Herald between 1566 and 1574.\n"}
{"id": "1463581", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1463581", "title": "Joint Strategic and Operations Group", "text": "Joint Strategic and Operations Group\n\nThe Joint Strategic and Operations Group, also known as the Joint Strategic Plans and Operations Group (JSPOG), was a committee that was instituted during the Korean War to facilitate communication and interaction between the various United States armed forces.\n\nIt played a significant part in both the Battle of Inchon, and Operation Chromite during the Korean War.\n\n"}
{"id": "1560054", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1560054", "title": "Leffmann Behrends", "text": "Leffmann Behrends\n\nLeffmann Behrends (or Liepmann Cohen, c. 1630 – January 1, 1714, Hanover) was the German financial agent of the dukes and princes of Hanover.\n\nLeffmann Behrens honorable position is lauded by Mannasseh ben Israel in his \"Hope of Israel\". Behrends frequently used his influence in favor of his coreligionists. His father, Issachar Bärmann by name (died August 23, 1675), was the son of the Talmudic scholar Isaac Cohen of Borkum; and the name \"Behrends\" was adopted by \"Liepmann\" in honor of his father. His first wife, Jente (died 1695), was a daughter of Joseph Hameln, president of the congregation; his second, Feile (died 1727), a daughter of Judah Selkele Dilmann. Liepmann had the following children by his first marriage: Naphtali Hirz (died 1709), who became president of the congregation; Moses Jacob (died 1697), praised as a Talmudic scholar and philanthropist; Gumpert and Isaac, who, in 1721, were accused of an attempt at fraudulent bankruptcy, in consequence of which they were compelled to leave Hanover (1726). Behrend's daughter Genendel became the wife of the chief rabbi of Prague, David Oppenheim. She died at Hanover June 13, 1712.\n\nBehrend's services as president of the congregation, in his endeavors to preserve the congregational cemetery, and to secure a special rabbinate and other privileges for Hanover, were valuable in the extreme. In 1683 Duke Rudolph August appointed him chief supervisor of the bleacheries of his community in the Harz. He stood in close relation to a number of princes, assisted Talmudic scholars, and established a \"bet ha-midrash\" in his own house. The library of his son-in-law David Oppenheimer, which he had himself enlarged, and which his son-in-law, owing to the censorship and other reasons, did not wish to keep at Prague, was removed by Behrends to Hanover, thus enabling the pastor Johann Christian Wolf of Hamburg to avail himself of it in preparing the \"Bibliotheca Hebræa\". Together with his son Naphtali Hirz, Liepmann in 1703 had a new synagogue erected upon the site of the old one, which, constructed by order of the duke of Hanover in 1609, had been torn down four years after its erection. The fate of Liepmann's two sons Gumbert and Isaac is related in a family \"megillah\", published by Jost in the second volume of the \"Jahrbuch für die Geschichte der Juden\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54092590", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54092590", "title": "Lumumba Government", "text": "Lumumba Government\n\nThe Lumumba Government (), synecdochically known as the Lumumba Ministry or Lumumba Cabinet, was the first set of ministers, ministers of state, and secretaries of state that governed the Democratic Republic of the Congo (then Republic of the Congo) under the leadership of Prime Minister Patrice Lumumba from 24 June until 12 September 1960. Weak and divided, its tenure was dominated by a widespread mutiny in the army and two secessions. The government suffered from and inherited many problems from the era of the Belgian Congo, a tightly-administered colony which for most of is existence had few political freedoms. In the late 1950s an independence movement suddenly emerged, led by figures such as Patrice Lumumba and Joseph Kasa-Vubu. Fears that the situation might turn violent led the Belgian government to agree to relinquish the Congo and grant it independence on 30 June 1960. A provisional constitution, providing for a parliamentary regime with a responsible government and prime minister and an irresponsible head of state, was instituted, and general elections were hastily organised. Lumumba's nationalist party, the Mouvement National Congolais (MNC), won a plurality of the seats in Parliament. After much hesitation, King Baudouin of Belgium appointed Lumumba \"formateur\", tasking him with creating a government. On 23 June Lumumba announced his completed government, a broad coalition consisting of 23 ministers, 4 ministers of state, and 10 secretaries of state, and presented it to the lower house of Parliament, the Chamber of Deputies. The vote of confidence succeeded by only a small margin. The Senate gave a more decisive vote of approval the following day, and the Lumumba Government was officially invested. With Lumumba's backing, Parliament elected Kasa-Vubu President.\n\nThere was a significant amount of confusion in the establishment of the new government. Its membership was incredibly diverse; the ministers and secretaries came from different social classes, different tribes, and held varied political beliefs. Only two ministers had university degrees. The Belgian administration had not anticipated such a large government, and many of its departments had to be subdivided among the portfolios. The Congo became independent on 30 June 1960 as scheduled and power was handed over to the government. The soldiers of the Force Publique were incredibly dissatisfied with their entirely European officer corps and on 5 July a garrison mutinied. The revolt quickly spread throughout the Lower Congo. European civilians were harassed, threatened, and raped. Members of the government negotiated with the mutineers to secure safe passage for the Europeans out of the country. On 8 June the Council of Ministers agreed to completely Africanise the officer corps, and appointed a new commander-in-chief of the army—renamed the Armée Nationale Congolaise (ANC)—and a new chief of staff, Joseph-Désiré Mobutu, who had been serving as a secretary of state. The troops were pleased by the reforms, and Lumumba joined President Kasa-Vubu on a tour across the country to ensure the Africanisation process was carried out.\n\nDisturbed by the situation, the Belgian government requested that the Lumumba Government allow its troops to occupy portions of the country to ensure its citizens could safely evacuate. The request was denied, but on 10 July the Belgian military initiated an intervention. The following day, Moïse Tshombe, a politician upset that his regionalist party had been given a secondary role in the government, declared that the province of Katanga was seceding from the Congo. Deprived of a useful armed force, the Lumumba Government was powerless to stop him. An exodus of thousands of Belgian functionaries—who had controlled most of the bureaucracy, left the administration in disarray. Katanga received technical support from Belgium, and Lumumba responded by severing diplomatic relations and requesting assistance from the United Nations. The UN created a large multinational peacekeeping force to assist the government in reestablishing law and order. Western nations were under the impression that Lumumba was a communist and the United States, Belgium, and France all worked to undermine and divide his government. Domestic opposition to the government cemented by late July. On 9 August the region of South Kasai went into secession. Lumumba increasingly relied on only a few advisers and rarely consulted the full Council of Ministers, and several members of the government began acting without his direction. He resorted to increasingly authoritarian measures to maintain control over the country. In late August an offensive was launched against the secessionist states with the Soviet Union's technical assistance. The ANC became involved in ethnic conflict in South Kasai and committed several atrocities, bringing the government into disrepute.\n\nOn 5 September President Kasa-Vubu dismissed Lumumba and six other members of the government. His dismissal order was countersigned by two of his ministers who disapproved of his actions. Lumumba refused to leave office and contested with his replacement over control of the administration. Parliament reaffirmed its confidence in the Lumumba Government, resulting in a constitutional deadlock. On 14 September Mobutu launched a coup that definitely removed Lumumba from power and installed his own regime. Lumumba attempted to flee to the eastern portion of the Congo with ministers that remained loyal to him, but was arrested by Mobutu's troops. Antoine Gizenga, his deputy, succeeded in escaping and established a new government that he declared was the legal successor regime to Lumumba's. Mobutu's government sent Lumumba and one of his ministers to Katanga in January 1961 where they were executed by local authorities. Two other ministers and one of the secretaries of state were killed in separate acts of political violence. In August Gizenga reached a compromise with the central government and a new administration under Cyrille Adoula was installed, absorbing many members of the Lumumba Government and bringing the constitutional crisis to an end.\n\nThe Congo Free State was established in 1885 as the private domain of King Leopold II of Belgium. By the turn of the century, however, the violence of Free State officials against indigenous Congolese had brought intense diplomatic pressure on Belgium to take official control of the country, which it did in 1908, creating the Belgian Congo. The colony was divided into six provinces: Léopoldville, Équateur, Orientale, Kivu, Kasai, and Katanga. The city of Léopoldville was designated as the capital in 1923.\n\nBelgian rule in the Congo was based around the \"colonial trinity\" (\"trinité coloniale\") of state, missionary and private company interests. The privileging of Belgian commercial interests meant that capital sometimes flowed back into the Congo and that individual regions became specialised. The country was split into nesting, hierarchically organised administrative subdivisions, and run uniformly according to a set \"native policy\" (\"politique indigène\"). As early as the 1920s, the Congo possessed one of the densest colonial regimes in Africa. The administration was heavily involved in the life of the Congolese; Belgian functionaries (government civil servants) closely monitored and enforced agricultural production, provided medical services to many residents, and frequently toured even the most rural territories to oversee their subjects. There was also a high degree of racial segregation between the native and white populations, the latter of which grew considerably after the end of World War II due to immigration from Europe.\n\nDuring the latter stages of World War II a new social stratum emerged in the Congo, known as the \"évolué\"s. Forming an African middle class in the colony, they held skilled positions (such as clerks and nurses) made available by the economic boom. Early on in their history, most \"évolué\"s sought to use their unique status to earn special privileges in the Congo. Since opportunities for upward mobility through the colonial structure were limited, the \"évolué\" class institutionally manifested itself in social clubs. Additional groups, such as labour unions, alumni associations, and ethnic syndicates, provided other Congolese the means of organisation. Among the most important of these was the Alliance des Bakongo (ABAKO), representing the Kongo people of the Lower Congo. However, they were restricted in their actions by the administration. The Congolese had no means of expressing their beliefs through the governing structures. Though native chiefs held legal authority in some jurisdictions, in practice they were used by the administration to further its own policies.\n\nIn 1954 ABAKO was taken over by Joseph Kasa-Vubu, and under his leadership it became increasingly hostile to the colonial authority and sought autonomy for the Kongo regions in the Lower Congo. In 1956 a group of Congolese intellectuals under the tutelage of several European academics issued a manifesto calling for a transition to independence over the course of 30 years. The ABAKO quickly responded with a demand for \"immediate independence\". The Belgian government was not prepared to grant the Congo independence and even when it started realising the necessity of a plan for decolonisation in 1957, it was assumed that such a process would be solidly controlled by Belgium. In December 1957 the colonial administration instituted reforms that permitted municipal elections and the formation of political parties. Nationalism fermented in 1958 as more \"évolué\"s began interacting with others outside of their own locales and started discussing the future structures of a post-colonial Congolese state. Nevertheless, most political mobilisation occurred along tribal and regional divisions. In Katanga, various tribal groups came together to form the Confédération des associations tribales du Katanga (CONAKAT) under the leadership of Godefroid Munongo and Moïse Tshombe. Hostile to immigrant peoples, it advocated provincial autonomy and close ties with Belgium. Most of its support was rooted in individual chiefs, businessmen, and European settlers of southern Katanga. It was opposed by Jason Sendwe's Association Générale des Baluba de Katanga (BALUBAKAT).\nIn October 1958 a group of Léopoldville \"évolué\"s including Patrice Lumumba, Cyrille Adoula and Joseph Iléo established the Mouvement National Congolais (MNC). Diverse in membership, the party sought to peacefully achieve Congolese independence, promote the political education of the populace, and eliminate regionalism. The MNC drew most of its membership from the residents of the eastern city of Stanleyville and from the population of the Kasai Province, where efforts were directed by a Muluba businessman, Albert Kalonji. Belgian officials appreciated its moderate and anti-separatist stance and allowed Lumumba to attend the All-African Peoples' Conference in Accra, Ghana, in December 1958. Lumumba was deeply impressed by the Pan-Africanist ideals of Ghanaian President Kwame Nkrumah and returned to the Congo with a more radical party programme, demanding the country's \"genuine\" independence.\n\nFearing that they were being overshadowed by Lumumba and the MNC, Kasa-Vubu and the ABAKO leadership announced that they would be hosting a rally in the capital on 4 January 1959. The municipal government (under Belgian domination) was given short notice, and issued a \"de facto\" ban on the event. ABAKO supporters were infuriated and, at the scheduled time of the rally, initiated three days of violent and destructive riots. The Force Publique (the colonial army) suppressed the revolt with considerable brutality. Popular opinion in Belgium was one of extreme shock and surprise. An investigative commission found the riots to be the culmination of racial discrimination, overcrowding, unemployment, and wishes for more political self-determination. On 13 January the Belgian King, Baudouin, declared that independence would be granted to the Congo in the future.\n\nMeanwhile, discontent surfaced among the MNC leadership, who were bothered by Lumumba's domination over the party's politics. Relations between Lumumba and Kalonji also grew tense, as the former was upset with how the latter was transforming the Kasai branch into an exclusively Luba group and antagonising other tribes. This culminated into the split of the party into the MNC-Lumumba/MNC-L under Lumumba and the MNC-Kalonji/MNC-K under Kalonji and Iléo. The latter began advocating federalism. Adoula left the organisation. Alone to lead his own faction and facing competition from ABAKO, Lumumba became increasingly strident in his demands for independence. Following a riot in Stanleyville he was arrested. Nevertheless, the influence of himself and the MNC-L continued to grow rapidly. The party advocated for a strong unitary state, nationalism, and the termination of Belgian rule and began forming alliances with regional groups, such as the Kivu-based Centre du Regroupement Africain (CEREA). Though the Belgians supported a unitary system over the federal models suggested by ABAKO and CONAKAT, they and more moderate Congolese were unnerved by Lumumba's increasingly extremist attitudes. With the implicit support of the colonial administration, the moderates formed the Parti National du Progrès (PNP) under the leadership of Paul Bolya and Albert Delvaux. It advocated centralisation, respect for traditional elements, and close ties with Belgium. In southern Léopoldville Province, a socialist-federalist party, the Parti Solidaire Africain (PSA) was founded. Antoine Gizenga served as its president, and Cléophas Kamitatu was in charge of the Léopoldville Province chapter.\n\nAfter the riots of 4 January 1959 Belgian leaders became increasingly fearful of a violent political conflict emerging in the Congo. The security situation in the country deteriorated over the course of the year, especially in the Lower Congo and in Kasai, where violent clashes between Baluba and Lulua were taking place. Fearing the degeneration of the unrest into a colonial war and facing intense pressure for reform, in late 1959 the Belgian government announced that it would host a round table conference in Brussels in 1960 with the Congolese leadership to discuss the political future of the country.\nThe round table conference formally opened on 20 January. In the first speech, the Belgian Prime Minister assured that the Congo would be granted independence but did not specify a date. Kasa-Vubu demanded that a Congolese government be formed immediately, but his request was denied. Disagreements between him and the Belgians over the competence of the conference led to the former walking out during the negotiations. His uncompromising style caused a split with ABAKO vice president Daniel Kanza, who remained as a delegate and suggested that the date of independence be discussed. Lumumba, meanwhile, was released from prison and flew to Brussels to participate in the conference. On 27 January he made his first appearance and voiced his support for independence. After some discussion the Congolese accepted the date of 30 June 1960 for sovereignty to be granted to the Congo. Questions over whether Belgium would retain any responsibilities after independence for a transitional period were resolved by a committee, which recommended that all powers should be conferred upon the Congolese state and any technical assistance should be agreed upon through a treaty. The decisions of the delegates were ratified in a series of resolutions on 19 February and the conference closed the following day.\n\nOne of the resolutions called for another conference to be held to negotiate the economic transition of the Congo. The conference opened on 20 April. Most of the Congolese attendees of the earlier round table were occupied by domestic political affairs and did not attend. The conference dissolved without the Congolese making many serious guarantees, though they obtained for the Congolese state a large number of shares in the Union Minière du Haut Katanga (UMHK), a highly profitable mining company.\n\nIt was decided at the Round Table Conference that the resolutions the participants adopted would serve as the basis for the Loi Fondamentale (Fundamental Law), a temporary draft constitution left for the Congo until a permanent one could be promulgated by a Congolese parliament. Summarising the similarities between the Loi Fondamentale and the Constitution of Belgium, Raymond Scheyven, Minister-in-charge of Economic Affairs for the Congo, observed, \"We have presented the Congolese with a political system similar to ours...It features communes, provincial assemblies, a bicameral system, and a political system where the head of state is irresponsible.\"\n\nThe division of executive power between a presumably symbolic head of state and head of government was the most noticeable and potentially harmful feature borrowed from the Belgian constitution. As in a parliamentary system, such power was to be exercised by \na Prime Minister and a cabinet responsible to Parliament. If the cabinet lost the confidence of Parliament, a motion of censure would be passed (either with a simple majority in both houses of a two-thirds majority in a single house) and it would be dismissed. By comparison, the head of state (a President) was irresponsible and only had the power to ratify treaties, promulgate laws, and nominate high-ranking officials (including the Prime Minister and the cabinet). In Belgium, parliamentary tradition had rendered these duties inconsequential in the face of the premier's influence. But in the Congo, no such convention had been established. The Loi Fondamentale defined the government as solely \"the Prime Minister and the Ministers\"; the office of the President was regarded as a separate institution.\n\nA parliament was to be composed of a lower chamber and an upper chamber. The lower chamber (Chamber of Deputies) consisted of 137 members directly elected \"by universal suffrage\". The upper chamber (Senate) would consist of 14 members from each province, elected by the members of their respective provincial assemblies. Senators and deputies that assumed a ministerial post in the central government were allowed to retain their seats in Parliament. A state commissioner would be appointed by the head of state with the consent of the Senate to represent the central government in each province. Their main duties were to \"administer state services\" and \"assure coordination of provincial and central institutions.\"\n\nThe constitution delineated the authority of the central and provincial governments. Among the central government's duties and responsibilities were foreign affairs, national defence, domestic security, customs and currency, communications, major public works, higher education, national judiciary, and economic planning. In areas where the provincial and central governments took contradictory stances, the central government's positions took precedence. The division of authority, a compromise between the federalist and unitarianist politicians, was dubbed by Belgian lawyers as \"quasi-federalism\".\n\nThe Loi Fondamentale was a very complicated and cumbersome document for the Congolese. Without definitive interpretation, it would become the source of serious confusion for officeholders. An absence of parliamentary tradition in the Congo was likely to further destabilise the situation. Ultimately, the Loi Fondamentale was not well suited for the Congolese polity.\n\nOne of the resolutions adopted at the Political Round Table called for the establishment of a Collège Exécutive Général (General Executive College), a body composed of six Congolese (one from each province) designed to share power with the Governor-general until independence. They were as follows: Rémy Mwamba for Katanga, Joseph Kasa-Vubu for Léopoldville, Patrice Lumumba for Orientale, Paul Bolya for Équateur, Pierre Nyanguyle for Kasaï, and Anicet Kashamura for Kivu. The members of the college did not hold direct responsibility over any departments.\n\nEven though the date for independence had been established at the Round Table Conference, there was still substantial uncertainty throughout the Congo as to which faction would come to dominate politics in the new government. This caused deep anxiety among most of the electorate. As the Congolese had little experience in democratic processes, few eligible voters in rural areas realised the meaning and importance of an election, and even fewer understood electoral mechanics and procedure.\n\nThe official electoral campaign began on 11 May, marred by confusion and violence. With the notable exceptions of CONAKAT, the PNP, and the Parti de l'Unité Nationale (PUNA), most parties' rhetoric was anti-colonial in focus. Frequent attacks on the colonial administration by candidates led to confusion among segments of the electorate, which were given the impression that all forms of government—except welfare services—were to be eliminated after independence. The MNC-L and the PNP were the only parties to launch significant national campaigns. The factions in favor of a unitary system of government tended to place their best candidates in the central government races, while their federalist counterparts focused on provincial campaigns.\n\nThe results for the Chamber of Deputies were as follows:\nThe results for the Senate were as follows:\nAfter the results were announced, Lumumba stated, \"I am ready to co-operate with our opponents to from a national union government.\" Belgium was surprised by the MNC-L's electoral success. Belgians who had anticipated a PNP-led government were revolted at the prospect of Lumumba leading an independent Congo. Many members of the various foreign missions in the Congo, however, believed that he was the only man capable of bringing order and stability to the country. Luluabourg, the provincial capital of Kasai, was designated the provisional seat of Parliament—and by probable extension, the new government—but ethnic violence between the Baluba and Lulua in Kasai led the authorities to remain in Léopoldville.\n\nArticles 47 and 48 of the Loi Fondamentale dictated how the first Congolese government was to be formed. In accordance with them, The King of the Belgians would consult with the major political forces that emerged after elections and appoint a \"formateur\" (former) who would then create a government \"likely to obtain the confidence of [P]arliament\". On the advice of the \"formateur\", the King would appoint the Prime Minister and the suggested ministers. Within three days of the nomination the government would have to receive a vote of confidence from both houses of Parliament (in this case, 69 votes in from the Chamber and 43 votes from the Senate would be required). The Belgians hoped a moderate alliance would materialise to oppose the MNC-L, so they would not have to give Lumumba the premiership. An anti-MNC-L coalition did form; it principally consisted of the PNP, PUNA, and the MNC-K led by Jean Bolikango (of PUNA), Kalonji, and Iléo (both of MNC-K). Kasa-Vubu aligned himself with the opposition but refused to become its leader. The loyalties of other parties were unsure, and the whole situation was complicated by the divided opinions within the parties themselves. Meanwhile, Lumumba, mindful of his plurality in the Chamber and busy trying to confirm the support of other parties, demanded to be made \"formateur\".\n\nNegotiations on the composition of the first government began on 31 May though a \"formateur\" had still not been selected. Belgium had committed itself to 30 June for independence and risked embarrassing itself in the international community if it proceeded without the Congo having its own government. Walter Ganshof van der Meersch was charged with advising Baudouin on the selection of a \"formateur\". On 8 June he made three suggestions to the King: Lumumba, as the winner of the elections; Kasa-Vubu, the only figure associated with the coalescing opposition with a reliable national reputation; or some to-be-determined third individual who could unite the competing blocs. On 12 June Ganshof appointed Lumumba to be \"informateur\" (informer), tasked with investigating the possibility of forming a national unity government that included politicians with a wide range of views, with 16 June as his deadline. The same day as Lumumba's appointment, the parliamentary opposition coalition, the Cartel d'Union Nationale was announced. Though Kasa-Vubu was aligned with their beliefs, he remained distanced from them. The MNC-L was also having trouble securing the allegiances of the PSA, CEREA, and BALUBAKAT. Initially, Lumumba was unable to establish contact with members of the cartel. Eventually several leaders were appointed to meet with him, but their position remained entrenched. On 16 June Lumumba reported his difficulties to Ganshof, who then extended the deadline and promised to act as an intermediary between the MNC leader and the opposition. However, once he had made contact with the cartel leadership, he was impressed by their obstinacy and assurances of a strong anti-Lumumba polity. By evening Lumumba's mission was showing even less chances of succeeding. Ganshof considered extending the role of \"informateur\" to Adoula and Kasa-Vubu, but faced increasing pressure from Belgian and moderate Congolese advisers to end Lumumba's assignment.\n\nThe following day Ganshof declared that Lumumba had failed to fulfill his role and terminated his mission. Acting on Ganshof's advice, Badouin then named Kasa-Vubu \"formateur\". Lumumba responded by threatening to form his own government and present it to Parliament without official approval. He subsequently announced the creation of a \"popular\" government with the support of Pierre Mulele of the PSA. Meanwhile, Kasa-Vubu, like Lumumba, was completely unable to communicate with his political opponents. He assumed that he would secure the Presidency, so he began looking for someone to serve as his prime minister. Most of the candidates he considered were friends that had foreign support similar to his own, including Kalonji, Iléo, Cyrille Adoula, and Justin Bomboko. Kasa-Vubu, however, was slow to come to a final decision. On 18 June Kasa-Vubu announced that he had completed his government with all parties except the MNC-L. That afternoon Sendwe, Gizenga, and Kashamura announced in the presence of Lumumba that their respective parties were not committed to the government. The next day Ganshof summoned Kasa-Vubu and Lumumba to a meeting so they could forge a compromise. This failed when Lumumba flatly refused the position of prime minister in a Kasa-Vubu Government. The following day the two rivals met in the presence of Adoula and diplomats from Israel and Ghana but no agreement was reached.\n\nMost party leaders refused to support a government that did not include Lumumba. The decision to make Kasa-Vubu the \"formateur\" rallied the PSA, CEREA, and BALUBAKAT to Lumumba, making it unlikely that he could form a government that would survive a vote of confidence. This was confirmed when the Chamber met on 21 June to select its officers; Joseph Kasongo of the MNC-L was made president with 74 votes (a majority), while the two vice presidencies were secured by the PSA and CEREA candidates, both of whom had the support of Lumumba. With time running out before independence, Badouin took new advice from Ganshof and made Lumumba \"formateur\". The following day the Senate convened to elect its officers. Though Iléo won the presidency, the two vice presidencies were awarded to BALUBAKAT and the MNC-L.\n\nOnce it was apparent that Lumumba's bloc controlled Parliament, several members of the opposition became eager to negotiate for a coalition government so they could share power. Among these were Bolikango, Delvaux, and Bolya. Their quest for compromise undermined the strength of the anti-MNC-L alliance. An enraged Kalonji criticised Ganshof for allowing Lumumba to be appointed \"formateur\" and demanded to be made Prime Minister.\nBy 22 June (shortly before the vote on the Senate's officers) Lumumba's government, headed by himself in the post of Prime Minister,\nincluded members of the MNC-L, the PSA, CEREA, BALUBAKAT, and the Fédération des Association de Ressortissments du Kasaï au Katanga (FEDEKA, a party in a cartel with BALUBAKAT). However, negotiations continued between Lumumba and Bolikango, Delvaux, and Kasa-Vubu. Lumumba reportedly offered ABAKO the ministerial positions for Foreign Affairs and Middle Classes, but Kasa-Vubu instead demanded the Ministry of Finance, a minister of state, the Secretary of State for the Interior, and a written pledge of support from the MNC-L and its allies for his presidential candidacy.\n\nKalonji was presented with the agriculture portfolio by Lumumba which, in spite of his suitability for the task as an experienced agricultural engineer, he rejected. Adoula was also offered a ministerial position, but refused to accept it. Lumumba had for a while considered offering Daniel Kanza a post in the government, but decided against it after considering the opposition such an appointment would receive from Kasa-Vubu, who he believed would assume the Presidency. Lumumba also weighed his options for the Minister of Foreign Affairs between Thomas Kanza (Daniel Kanza's son), André Mandi, and Justin Bomboko. He mistrusted Bomboko, whom the Belgians supported and with whom he had political differences. Kanza, who was well acquainted with Bomboko, suggested that he himself be made Delegate to the United Nations (UN) with ministerial status, so he could operate with autonomy, while Bomboko should receive charge of Foreign Affairs, because he was an elected deputy and had more political support. Lumumba eventually agreed to this proposal, while Mandi was made Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs.\n\nBy the morning of 23 June, the government was, in the words of Lumumba, \"practically formed\". At noon, he made a counter-offer to Kasa-Vubu, who instead responded with a letter demanding the creation of a seventh province for the Bakongo. Lumumba refused to comply and instead pledged to support Bolikango in his bid for the Presidency. At 14:45 he presented his proposed government before the press. Both ABAKO and the MNC-K were absent from its composition, while the only PSA members were from Gizenga's wing of the party. The Bakongo of Léopoldville were deeply upset by their exclusion from Lumumba's cabinet. They subsequently demanded the removal of the PSA-dominated provincial government and called for a general strike to begin the following morning. At 16:00 Lumumba and Kasa-Vubu resumed negotiations. Kasa-Vubu eventually agreed to Lumumba's earlier offer, though Lumumba informed him that he could not give him a guarantee of support in his presidential candidacy.\n\nAs result of the negotiations with Kasa-Vubu, the cabinet was reshuffled to include an ABAKO Minister of Finance. In turn, the suggested Minister of Finance assumed the responsibility of Economic Coordination. The minister unseated by the change inherited the Ministry of Land Affairs, which was split off from the Ministry of Mines. A member of PUNA took over the Ministry of Social Affairs, which was broken off of the Ministry of Labour. ABAKO earned one minister of state and secretary of state. The Secretary of State for the Interior was transferred to the Secretariat for Finance, while PUNA was entrusted with one minister of state. According to Kanza, Lumbala and Mobutu held much influence in the final determination of Lumumba's government. Badouin also formally decreed Lumumba to be Prime Minister.\n\nThe government consisted of the following individuals:\n\n\nThe 37-strong Lumumba Government was very diverse, with its members coming from different classes, different tribes, and holding varied political beliefs. Though many had questionable loyalty to Lumumba, most did not openly contradict him out of political considerations or fear of reprisal. He dominated the Council of Ministers, and most of the ministers did respect his abilities. Of the members of the ministerial cabinet, only Kanza and Bomboko had university educations while Yav was completing his studies in Brussels. Nineteen of the ministers had worked as clerks, two as medical assistants, one as a teacher, and one other professionally in the private sector (Kanza had worked with the European Economic Community). Lumumba, Bolya, Nkayi, Rudahindwa, Nguvulu, Mandi, and Liongo were all members of the Association du Personnel Indigene de la Colonie (APIC) labour union. Fourteen of the ministers were openly left-leaning, including Gizenga, Mulele, and Gbenye. Gizenga, Mulele, Kashamura, and Bisukiro had connections with foreign leftists—mostly African nationalists—and harboured a more programmatic approach to their politics, probably due to the disaffection of farmers in their constituencies. Yav, Bomboko, and Bolamba were all known Belgian protégés, while Rudahindwa worked at the behest of the white settlers of Kivu. Nyembo used his position as Secretary of State for Defence to spy on the department's activities for Tshombe, who had secured office as the President of Katanga Province. Most of the members of the government, aside from Bomboko, Kanza, and Mandi, were ignorant of international affairs and Cold War dynamics. Mandi's place as the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs allowed him to monitor Bomboko's activities for Lumumba. As Minister of Youth and Sports, Mpolo was in a position to act as the government's primary propagandist. Charles Kisolokele was chosen to be ABAKO's minister of state because he was a practicing member of Kimbanguism. Lumumba probably hoped that through the appointment he could earn the allegiance of the rest of the Kimbaguist members of ABAKO, thereby dividing the party.\n\nMNC-L members controlled eight ministries, including four major portfolios: national defence, interior, economic coordination, and agriculture. Tshombe objected to the fact that the former two were held by MNC-L members, while the majority of PUNA and MNC-K members were extremely displeased that their party leaders had not been included in the government. Lumumba failed to prevent dissidence by giving ABAKO and CONAKAT, parties both in control of regions with autonomous tendencies, a more secondary role in his government. European circles were displeased that the portfolio for economic affairs, controlled by a CONAKAT member, was undercut by the positioning of nationalists in control of the Ministry and Secretariat for Economic Coordination, and that mines and land affairs were placed under separate portfolios. Tshombe declared that it rendered his agreement to support the government \"null and void\".\n\nAt 22:40 on 23 June, the Chamber of Deputies convened in the Palais de la Nation to vote on Lumumba's government. After Kasongo opened the session, Lumumba delivered his main speech, promising to maintain national unity, abide by the will of the people, and pursue a neutralist foreign policy. It was warmly received by most deputies and observers. The Chamber proceeded to engage in a heated debate. Though the government contained members from parties that held 120 of the 137 seats, reaching a majority was not a straightforward task. While several leaders of the opposition had been involved in the formative negotiations, their parties as a whole had not been consulted. Furthermore, some individuals were upset they had not been included in the government and sought to personally prevent its investiture. In the subsequent arguments, multiple deputies expressed dissatisfaction at the lack of representation of their respective provinces and/or parties, with several threatening secession. Among them was Kalonji, who said he would encourage people of Kasaï to refrain from participating in the central government and form their own autonomous state. One Katangese deputy objected to the possession of the premiership and the defence portfolio by the same person.\n\nWhen a vote was finally taken, only 80 of the 137 members of the Chamber were present. Of these, 74 voted in favor of the government, five against, and one abstained. The 57 absences were almost all voluntary. Though the government had earned just as many votes as when Kasongo won the presidency of the Chamber, the support was not congruent; members of Kamitatu's wing of the PSA had voted against the government while a few members of the PNP, PUNA, and ABAKO, and a single CONAKAT deputy voted in favor of it. Overall, the vote was a disappointment for the MNC-L coalition. The session was adjourned at 02:05 on 24 June.\n\nThe Senate convened that day to vote on the government. There was another heated debate, in which Iléo and Adoula expressed their strong dissatisfaction with its composition. CONAKAT members abstained from voting. When arguments concluded, a decisive vote of approval was taken on the government: 60 voted in favor, 12 against, while eight abstained. All dissident arguments for alternative cabinets, particularly Kalonji's demand for a new administration, were rendered impotent and the Lumumba Government was officially invested. With the institution of a broad coalition, the parliamentary opposition was officially reduced to only the MNC-K and some individuals. The Soviet Union was pleased by the composition of the government and made several overtures to Lumumba to try and secure his favor, while United States officials were unsure how to respond.\n\nAccording to the Loi Fondamentale, Parliament had to meet to elect the head of state within 48 hours of the appointments of the presiding officers of each chamber. Bolikango and Kasa-Vubu were the only two declared candidates. Lumumba had promised to support the former in the election in exchange for PUNA's support for his government's investiture. Afterwards he secretly instructed the nationalist parliamentarians to vote for Kasa-Vubu, figuring that this would please the most pressure groups and appease the ABAKO constituency, which many feared would effect a secession of the Lower Congo. Mpolo thought electing Kasa-Vubu would be a mistake and sought to postpone the vote to give Lumumba time to reconsider his decision. During the session he took the floor and suggested that, in light of heightened tensions between Bolikango's and Kasa-Vubu's supporters, the assembly be adjourned to facilitate further discussions between the political parties on their candidates of choice. Confused by the proposal, Kasongo (who was presiding) asked if it had been made on behalf of the government. Displeased, Lumumba indicated that it was not. Instead of using his power to adjourn, Kasongo deferred to the assembly, which decided to proceed with the election. Thomas Kanza coaxed Lumumba to step outside of the chamber where he, his father, and Mpolo attempted in vain to change his mind. Lumumba refused to alter his decision on the grounds that ABAKO members would revolt and that, in his personal opinion, Kasa-Vubu would make a better head of state. Kasa-Vubu won the vote, 150 to 43 with 11 abstentions.\n\nThe election of Kasa-Vubu brought about wide-ranging acceptance of the Congo's new administration. The Belgian press reacted positively to the development, while the Léopoldville's daily newspaper \"Courrier d'Afrique\", edited by a Mukongo, showed much warmer approval of the government. However, it also solidified the oppositional alignment of PUNA, CONAKAT, and the MNC-K. Bolikango's supporters were infuriated by the result, as were many Bangala soldiers. Nevertheless, the discontent seemed to pose little threat to the Lumumba Government's operations or credibility, except in Kasai (in regard to the MNC-K). International opinion expressed satisfaction at the striking of a proper balance in leadership. Belgian politicians hoped that Kasa-Vubu would check Lumumba's impulses and personal disdain for Belgian policies. He was officially sworn in as President on 27 June.\n\nAt the onset of his premiership Lumumba had two main goals: ensure that independence would bring a legitimate improvement in the quality of life for the Congolese and unify the country in a centralised state by eliminating tribalism and regionalism. He was also worried that opposition to his government would appear rapidly and had to be managed quickly and decisively.\nTo achieve the first aim, Lumumba figured a comprehensive \"Africanisation\" of the administration, in spite of its risks, would be necessary. There were 9,800 Belgian civil servants in the Congo, all of whom held senior positions. Of the 12,485 Congolese functionaries, only 637 held higher level posts. Of the top three grades in the civil service, only three posts were held by Congolese. The Belgians were opposed to Africanisation, as it would create inefficiency in the Congo's bureaucracy and lead to a mass exodus of unemployed civil servants which they would be unable to handle back in Europe. All the same the proposal could not be quickly enacted before independence; Lumumba was wary of a hasty reorganisation that would jeapordise the administration and reluctantly favored a slower transformation. He also considered the Africanisation of the territorial service to be important, but since the central government was preoccupied the task mostly fell to the responsibility of the provincial authorities. Seeking another gesture that might excite the Congolese people, he proposed to the Belgian government a reduction in sentences for all prisoners and an amnesty for those serving a term of three years or less. Ganshof feared that such an action would jeopardise law and order and he evaded taking any action until it was too late to fulfill the request. Lumumba's opinion of the Belgians was further soured by the affair, which also contributed to his fear that independence would not appear \"real\" for the average Congolese.\n\nIn eliminating all notions of tribalism and regionalism in the Congo Lumumba was heavily inspired by the personality and undertakings of Kwame Nkrumah and by Ghanaian ideas of the leadership that was necessary in Africa. One of the main vehicles through which he sought to achieve this was the MNC. Lumumba intended to combine it with its parliamentary allies—CEREA, the PSA, and possibly BALUBAKAT—to form one national party with a following in each province. From there he hoped it would absorb other parties and become a unifying force for the country. Lumumba was wary about the continued dominance of the Catholic Church in Congolese affairs, but declared that his government would support freedom of religion and the separation of church and state. Though he was optimistic about his opportunity to govern, he was disappointed by the fact that his government—composed of inexperienced men and so hastily established—could not function properly and that he had to work with many politicians who opposed his agenda.\n\nMeanwhile, the Council of Ministers held its first meetings. The ministers with socialist leanings generally referred to their colleagues as \"Comrade\" while those with a more aristocratic view of their positions preferred to say \"Your Excellency\". Most of the cabinet was concerned about the formalities that were to be in play during independence ceremonies, so an appeal was made to the chief of protocol of the Belgian Foreign Ministry. As a result, they adopted an order of precedence that was nearly identical to the system used in Belgium. Ministers also concerned themselves with housing, and several visited Belgian officials at their homes in search of prospective residences. Lumumba was unable to move himself and his staff into his designated residence and offices until the Belgian Governor-general vacated the premises on 5 July.\nThe establishment of the new administration was mired with substantial confusion. The Belgians had expected 10 ministers, not 23 (of whom 20 held responsibility over a unique ministry), so most departments had to be divided. As a result, many ministers were confused as to the location of their offices, the composition of their staffs, and the scope of their responsibilities. Organisational charts for the ministries were under evaluation as late as 28 June. The large number of departments also greatly fractured authority; social policy was shared between three ministries (Social Affairs, Labour, Youth and Sports) and economic policy was shared between four (Economic Affairs, Economic Coordination and Planning, External Commerce, Finance). The ministries were set up according to the Belgian model whereby each was split into two sections. The first consisted of a minister's personal cabinet of up to 12 members (for which no minimum qualifications were specified) under the charge of a \"chef de cabinet\". The cabinets' establishment was the primary concern of ministers and their clientele and they were the only government organisations speedily instituted during the hand-over of authority. The second section of a ministry was composed of several departments led by a secretary-general. Tasked with advising a minister on \"political\" and \"administrative\" functions, respectively, the two branches were predisposed to coming into conflict over the duality of authority they held in their ministries. In the ministries that were established before independence the cabinet posts were mostly filled by loyal members of the responsible minister's party. A minority were held by Europeans, with exception of the seats in the Defence cabinet, which were completely occupied by Belgian officers. A handful of the secretariats were given to some of the few Congolese university graduates. In the confused political situation many ministers were mistrustful of others and made such appointments based on regional or tribal affiliations. Petty tribal, religious, and personal disputes among staff hampered the establishment of the administration. Three hundred Congolese personnel were sent to Belgium for training in various ministries but very little changed in the lower levels of the administration; most clerks received the same salary as they had previously and were left under the control of the same Belgian civil servants. The ministries of Foreign Affairs, Youth and Sports, Education, and Information, relative to the other departments, were initially able to function under Congolese management. On the eve of independence the chief of the Sûreté Nationale (security police) was attached to the Prime Minister's office, allowing Lumumba to monitor the activities of Gbenye and Mwamba who both, acting in their respective capacities as Minister of Justice and Minister of Interior, had tried to cement their own control over the organisation.\n\nWith the independence of the country, the new government also inherited a complex financial situation. The political uncertainty of 1959 led to the overall withdrawal of over £90 million from the Congo by the private sector before the end of the year. In 1960 the flight of capital averaged £7 million a month until the Belgian authorities intervened. By then, the Central Bank of the Congo and Ruanda-Urundi had been drained to a point where it could no longer fulfill its financial obligations. To provide stability, the National Bank of Belgium agreed to back its operations. In return, the Central Bank transferred all of its gold and dollar reserves to Brussels and agreed that the Congo's monetary and fiscal policy would be decided upon by both institutions, greatly limiting the economic freedom of the new government. The Congolese were left in effect with no monetary authority and so could not issue currency or generate credit. The Belgians also persuaded several significant businesses to deposit a total of £17.5 million in the Congo's treasury (which had only £4.9 million in December 1959) as advance payments for future taxes, duties, and dividends. However, this action in-effect guaranteed that the country's future profits would meet its deficits, greatly jeapordising the future liquidity of the Congo's finances. A drop in world commodity prices starting in 1956 had decreased the profitability of the Congo, leading to three-and-a-half years of deficits, though the Belgians proposed subsidising it. Lumumba's government was also liable for a national debt of £350 million. Managing it was estimated to expend 24.2% of the Congo's 1960 budget, by far the largest debt burden of any relinquished African colony. However, this was somewhat alleviated by two factors. Firstly, most of it was incurred through development work. Secondly, the government assumed control over a portfolio of assets worth approximately £240 million, including a significant amount of shares of the UMHK and several important parastatals. In addition to the £13.5 million in servicing the debt, the 1960 second semester budget also called for an expenditure of £38 million in regular appropriations. It only provided for £28.5 million in receipts, so the Belgian subsidy (which was to come in monthly installments) was required to keep it balanced.\nOn 27 June the Lumumba Government convened and announced that the country would be known after independence as the Republic of the Congo. During the meeting a committee was established to draft a Treaty of Friendship, Assistance, and Co-operation to be signed with Belgium. It stipulated that the Belgian civil servants in the Congo and the Belgian officers of the Force Publique would remain at their posts and receive compensation from the Belgian government. It also allowed for Belgian metropolitan troops to continue to garrison the bases of Kitona and Kamina until another agreement could arrange the installations' handover to the Congolese government. The text of the treaty was hurriedly finished and on 29 June the agreement was signed by Belgian Prime Minister Gaston Eyskens, Belgian Foreign Minister Pierre Wigny, Lumumba, and Bomboko. Most observers familiar with the Congolese situation believed that the new government would not, with so much technical assistance, really operate independently of Belgium and some feared that regardless of such support it would not be able to function effectively.\n\nMeanwhile, foreign delegations arrived in the capital in advance of the Independence Day festivities. The Soviet gestures to Lumumba guaranteed a straightforward arrangement in their diplomatic relations with the Congolese government and an ambassador was assigned to attend the independence ceremony. More complicated negotiations regarding foreign relations took place with other states, such as Ghana. Congolese ministers were invited to an array of receptions, parties, and conferences. Their associations revealed the different factions in the government; some individuals heavily associated with the representatives of socialist countries or \"progressive\" Africans and Asians, while others only mingled with Westerners and their sympathisers. As these divisions surfaced, the ministers began to label each-other according to their beliefs; the categories ranged from socialist and anti-imperialist to reactionary and pro-Belgian. The ministers' names on the government list circulated among the press were increasingly appended by their respective party affiliation. This development, according to Kanza, led foreigners to pigeonhole ministers with their parties' beliefs.\n\nThe Independence Day formalities were arranged by the Belgians. The itinerary began with an 11:00 ceremony at the Palais de la Nations, where King Baudouin and President Kasa-Vubu were due to deliver speeches. Kasa-Vubu's address, which was submitted to the Council of Ministers in advance for review, consisted of two parts. The first concerned the Congo's history and its future, while the second acted as a tribute to Baudouin. Lumumba was upset that he was not listed in the programme, and he secretly drafted his own speech with the assistance of Kanza and Mandi and informed Kasongo, who was to preside over the ceremony, of his intention to speak.\n\nBaudouin's address was paternalistic in nature. He opened by celebrating the Congo's first Belgian colonists and Leopold II. He cautioned the Congolese not to make any sudden alterations to the institutions of government they were being given, encouraged them to be wary of foreign interference, and stated that they now had to show themselves worthy of being granted independence. The Congolese audience disliked the speech, and Kasa-Vubu omitted the tribute to Baudouin in his oration. Kasongo then called Lumumba to the podium. The Prime Minister delivered a charismatic, nationalist address which praised the Congolese independence movement and spoke toward the necessary sacrifices to be taken to improve the country. He highlighted the abuses the Congolese people had faced under colonial rule and stressed the importance of the Congo as a new African state. The Belgian press and population had an extremely negative reaction, and both believed the Prime Minister's speech was proof of a radical and anti-Western outlook. After the speech Lumumba and Bomboko signed the accords officially conferring sovereignty upon the Congo with their Belgian counterparts.\n\nIndependence Day and the three days that followed it were declared a national holiday. The Congolese were preoccupied by the festivities which occurred in relative peace. Meanwhile, Lumumba's and Gizenga's offices were overtaken by a flurry of activity. Numerous Congolese citizens showed up at them at whim for various reasons. Lumumba, for his part, was mostly preoccupied with a lengthy itinerary of receptions and ceremonies. Bomboko, Kanza, and Mandi were busy attempting to organise the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Kanza in particular was trying to draft his letters of credence before his departure for the United Nations headquarters in New York City. Bomboko was upset by the fact that most foreign contacts were made either through the entire government or through Lumumba, instead of directly through him.\nOn 1 July Lumumba sent a wire to the UN to request membership. He stated that the Congo \"accepts without reservation the obligations stipulated in the Charter of the UN and undertakes to abide by the same in absolute good faith.\" UN Secretary-General Dag Hammarskjöld cabled the Foreign Ministry, pointing out the difficulty in admitting the country into the UN under its name in the face of another application for membership from the neighboring Congo, preparing for independence from French control. A delegation was sent from Brazzaville to resolve the matter with Kanza and Mandi. Problems of mutual concern between the two countries were also discussed. In the end, it was decided that the former Belgian Congo would be recognised as the Republic of the Congo or Congo-Léopoldville while the former French Congo would be known as the Congolese Republic or Congo-Brazzaville. The Lumumba Government also signed the Third Geneva Convention.\n\nOn 3 July Lumumba declared a general amnesty for prisoners, but it was never implemented. That day the government ordered the arrest of Kalonji's \"rival\" Kasai provincial government, precipitating unrest in Luluabourg. The following morning Lumumba convened the Council of Ministers to discuss the unrest among the troops of the Force Publique. The ministers resolved to establish four committees to study respectively the reorganisation of the administration, the judiciary, and the army, and the enacting of a new statute for state employees. All were to devote special attention to ending racial discrimination. Lumumba announced the decision over radio that evening. Parliament assembled for the first time since independence and took its first official legislative action by voting to greatly increase the salaries of its members. Lumumba, fearing the repercussions the raise would have on the budget, was among the few to object, dubbing it a \"ruinous folly\".\n\nThe Force Publique was long characterised by repressive police actions and entrenched racial segregation. With the exception of 10 adjutants appointed shortly before independence, no Congolese soldier was able to advance past the rank of sergeant. Many hoped that independence would result in immediate promotions and material gains, but were disappointed by Lumumba's slow pace of reform. The rank-and-file felt that the Congolese political class—particularly ministers in the new government—were enriching themselves while failing to improve the troops' situation. There was dissatisfaction that Lumumba had appointed an unpopular colonel to a high post in the Ministry of Defence, and the troops from Équateur and southern Kasai were additionally upset that Bolikango and Kalonji were not included in the government. Many of the soldiers were also fatigued from maintaining order during the elections and participating in independence celebrations.\n\nOn the morning of 5 July General Émile Janssens, commander of the Force Publique, in response to increasing unrest among the Congolese ranks, summoned all troops on duty at Camp Léopold II. He demanded that the army maintain its discipline and wrote \"before independence = after independence\" on a black board to emphasise that the situation would not change. That evening the Congolese sacked the canteen in protest of Janssens. He alerted the reserve garrison of Camp Hardy, 95 miles away in Thysville. The officers tried to organise a convoy to send to Camp Léopold II to restore order, but the men mutinied and seized the armoury. The \"Congo Crisis\" which followed would come to dominate the tenure of the Lumumba Government.\n\nThe following morning the troops in Thysville began arresting Europeans and confiscating firearms. Some soldiers drove to other towns in the Lower Congo, spreading the mutiny and raping two women. Meanwhile, Janssens finalised plans to attack Camp Hardy and had alerted the commander of the Belgian metropolitan troops in the Congo. The government countermanded his order and instead dispatched Mobutu, Kisolokele, and the Vice President of Léopoldville Province to negotiate with the mutineers. They succeeded in releasing the captive Europeans and began evacuating them to the capital. Bands of angry soldiers roamed the capital, and Lumumba interrupted a cabinet meeting at his residence to invite one group to share its grievances. In an attempt to placate the mutinous troops, he dismissed Janssens and promoted every soldier by one grade. He also dismissed the Belgian officer in charge of the Sûreté and forced him into exile, precipitating a collapse of the organisation completed by the departure of most other Belgian personnel. In Léopoldville, several Congolese soldiers had been convinced that Lumumba had brought Soviet troops into the country to disarm the Force Publique. Angered by this, they stormed the hotel rooms of the Soviet delegation (which had been present for the independence celebrations). Upon hearing what had occurred, Lumumba directed Bomboko to assume responsibility of the security of all foreign delegations present in the Congo and ensure that the Soviets could safely leave the country. Bomboko ordered Kanza to escort the delegation to N'djili Airport where they both convinced the Congolese soldiers to allow the Soviets to depart in peace.\n\nOn 7 July formal negotiations between the mutineers and the government on the reorganisation of army began. Though the situation in the capital was relatively calm, anxiety grew among the European community, which began to arm itself with weapons from illegal stockpiles. Belgian civilians began seeking passage to the French Congo or refuge in the Belgian embassy to await repatriation. Bomboko and Delvaux devoted much of their time to assisting them. The provincial presidents, who had been summoned to the capital, met with the Council of Ministers to discuss domestic security in the context of the mutiny. Other matters, including the appointment of administrative staff and the budget, were also considered. Tshombe specifically requested that Katanga be allocated a unique budget in consideration of its mineral wealth. Lumumba promised that he would consult his advisers on the proposal but stated that he was more concerned with ensuring order in the provinces.\nOn 8 July the full Council of Ministers convened in an extraordinary session under the chairmanship of Kasa-Vubu at Camp Léopold II in Léopoldville to address the task of Africanising the garrison. By then the severity of the mutiny had convinced the ministers that radical reform was necessary in order to maintain the army's discipline. The soldiers on guard prevented them from leaving until they had decided upon their course of action. The Council first heard soldier delegations' grievances; the root cause of their dissatisfaction was that the army's leadership was wholly European despite independence from Belgium. After allowing for the election of a new commandant for the garrison, the ministers debated over who would make a suitable army chief of staff. The two main candidates for the post were Mpolo and Mobutu. The former had shown some influence over the mutinying troops, but Kasa-Vubu and the Bakongo ministers feared that he would enact a \"coup d'état\" if he were given power. The latter was perceived as calmer and more thoughtful.\n\nIn the end Mobutu was given the role and awarded the rank of colonel. The ministers then decided that the Minister of Defence should appoint a Congolese sergeant major to replace Janssens as commander-in-chief of the army with the rank of general. Lumumba, at the suggestion of Mwamba, selected Victor Lundula for the role. In addition to the appointments a state committee for the army—officially renamed the Armée Nationale Congolaise (ANC)—was formed and put under the charge of a Congolese officer. It was further determined that the President would \"ex officio\" be the supreme commander of the military, the Prime Minister and Minister of Defence would control the army in a structure approved by Parliament, and all army units would be placed under the command of Congolese officers. Delegations were to be dispatched across the country to implement the latter reform. The ministers resolved to retain all Belgian officers \"prepared to serve the Congo loyally\" and guarantee the security of their income, families, and property so they could act as advisers to their successors.\nThe ministers decided it would be best to publicise their decisions as soon as possible. Immediately after the Council adjourned the garrison of Camp Léopold II was summoned to the barrack square. Lumumba, acting in his capacity as Minister of Defence, announced the actions the government was taking to address the army's grievances. A communique was distributed by the secretariat of the Council of Ministers to the press and radio, summarising the government's decisions. The Congolese soldiers were satisfied with them and tensions relaxed. Nevertheless, European civilians continued to try and flee the country.\n\nOn 9 July the government delegations left the capital to oversee the Africanisation of the ANC. Mobutu traveled to Équateur and while he was there Mpolo acted as ANC Chief of Staff. Kasa-Vubu and Lumumba went directly to Matadi where tensions were quickly worsening. From that point until later in the month the two worked closely with one another and made most major decisions together. After appointing a new garrison commander, supervising the election of other officers, and securing the release of captive Europeans, the pair left the city to inspect other units throughout the Lower Congo. European officers handed over control to the Congolese in Kivu and Orientale without incident, but the military situation in Kasai and Katanga remained tense and was marked by violence. The government's decision to Africanise the army caused anxiety in the civilian populace of the latter province, which feared such a reform would result in the collapse of domestic security. The provincial government refused to support Africanisation and appealed directly to Belgium to intervene to resolve the situation. The troops subsequently mutinied. Meanwhile, in Brussels news of conflict and abuses against Europeans brought public pressure against the Belgian government to take action. Ganshof and August de Schryver were sent to Léopoldville with an ultimatum for Lumumba: either a formal request for Belgian military assistance could be made or metropolitan troops would act on their own initiative to protect Belgian citizens. As Lumumba was not in the capital, Ganshof and de Schryver met with other ministers in an attempt to persuade them to agree to a military intervention. Discussions continued late into the evening and though some members of cabinet appeared receptive, Deputy Prime Minister Gizenga was obstinately opposed to such action and ultimately refused to consent. Overnight orders to intervene were delivered several times to the Belgian troops at Kamina base only to be repeatedly countermanded by the government. Lumumba and Kasa-Vubu were informed of the planned intervention and, though initially receptive to the idea, were disturbed that the Belgian government would not make guarantees regarding respect for Congolese sovereignty and subsequently asked that all Belgian troops be withdrawn from Congolese soil.\n\nRegardless, the Belgians' decision to intervene ultimately prevailed and at 06:00 on 10 July metropolitan troops from Kamina flew into Élisabethville, the capital of Katanga Province, and occupied the local airport. Later that morning Bomboko met with fleeing Belgians at N'djili Airport. While there he declared that the Belgian intervention had been made at his request, though this was most likely untrue and probably only said to ease tensions. In the afternoon Lumumba and Kasa-Vubu returned to the capital having successfully quelled the unrest in the Lower Congo and convinced that negotiation could resolve the situation. Later they decided to solicit aid from the UN in restructuring the Force Publique. Ministers of the cabinet met with UN representative Ralph Bunche to discuss what technical assistance the UN could offer to the Congolese administration. Bunche shortly thereafter informed Hammarskjöld of the Congolese government's intended request. By evening Lumumba had learned of the Belgian intervention in Élisabethville. He was furious that the Belgians had acted contrary to the Treaty of Friendship and delivered a response over radio: \n\nWe have just learnt that the Belgian government has sent troops to the Congo and that they have intervened. The responsibility of Belgium is great. We protest bitterly against these measures which prejudice good relations between our countries. We appeal to all Congolese to defend our Republic against those who threaten it.\nAt the same time the Belgians launched a second intervention in Luluabourg. On 11 July Lumumba and Kasa-Vubu flew to the town. After overseeing the election of new officers for the garrison, Lumumba joined Kasa-Vubu in admonishing the Europeans to stay. Most refused to do so unless they had the protection of the Belgian troops. After lengthy negotiation Lumumba agreed to the condition and communicated to the Belgian consul-general that the force could remain in the province of Kasaï for two months. Back in Léopoldville, Ganshof and de Schryver continued to meet with the ministers with the hopes of establishing a mutual guarantee of security for both Europeans and Africans. Then, for reasons not entirely clear, Belgian units intervened in Matadi. Fighting broke out and 12 Congolese were killed. News of the conflict (along with exaggerated casualty reports) spread to other army camps across the country, resulting in a wave of renewed mutinies and anti-Belgian hostility.\n\nBetween 10 and 18 July, Belgian forces intervened 28 times in Congolese localities. With the exception of the Luluabourg authorisation, the Belgian troops never acted with the permission of the government. The Force Publique mutinies increased the unpopularity of the army and cost the government a significant amount of support in rural areas. The insecurity they caused also impeded economic production and the distribution of goods and distracted the leadership from addressing other problems facing the administration. Order was ultimately restored largely through the use of the gendarmerie, a more wieldy and reliable institution than the army.\n\nA number of CONAKAT leaders and Europeans made an attempt shortly before 30 June to declare Katanga an independent country. The Belgian government foiled their plans, as they favored their colony to emerge as a unified state. The Force Publique mutiny and the refusal of Lumumba to accede to a military intervention caused the Belgians to alter their opinions; secession could provide them a way to reestablish order in the region and protect their large commercial interests in local industry. CONAKAT politicians also grew increasingly worried that Lumumba would dislodge their provincial government and replace them with BALUBAKAT members.\n\nOn the evening of 11 July Tshombe, accusing the central government of communist leanings and dictatorial rule, announced that Katanga was seceding from the Congo. When the ANC officer responsible for the Africanisation of the Élisabethville garrison arrived in the city, Katangese authorities immediately detained and expelled him. He flew to Luluabourg and informed Lumumba and Kasa-Vubu of the secession. The two decided to fly to Katanga for to examine the situation themselves. Katangese Minister of Interior Munongo denied them permission to land at the airport and radioed that while Kasa-Vubu could visit Katanga if he wished, Lumumba was not allowed to enter the territory. Infuriated, the President and Prime Minister returned to Luluabourg. They subsequently requested assistance from the UN Security Council in restructuring the ANC via telegram and informed the cabinet of their appeal.\n\nBelgian troops immediately began to withdraw to Katanga following the declaration of independence, damaging infrastructure along the way. They disarmed ANC units that remained loyal to the central government, and several Belgian officers were appointed to a newly created Katangese Gendarmerie. The secession had the support of the UMHK, which assisted in the establishment of the new Katangese state—logistically and financially—and urged the Belgian government to support it. The company never sought to negotiate a compromise with Lumumba's government. The Belgian government subsequently established a technical assistance mission in Élisabethville and encouraged its citizens in the local administration to remain at their posts. While the secession was viewed favorably among conservatives in Western circles, leftist media saw the development as an attempt by Belgium to retain control over its economic interests and undermine the Lumumba Government. The government was frequently criticised in the Belgian press, while the Katangese situation was praised. Two of the largest newspapers in Léopoldville, \"Courrier d'Afrique\" and \"Présence Africaine\", repeatedly attacked the administration for its failure to end the state of crisis.\nAt 15:30 on 12 July the government convened in Léopoldville in the absence of the President and Prime Minister with Belgian Ambassador Jean van den Bosch, Ganshof, de Schryver, and eventually United States Ambassador Clare H. Timberlake. Bomboko directed most of the meeting, and proposed, in light of the strained relations between Belgium and the Congo, that a \"foreign neutral army\" be brought in to maintain order. After his initial suggestion of Israeli troops was agreed as too impractical, Bomboko advanced the idea of using United States forces. The ministers then penned a formal request of 3,000 troops for use in the capital and the Lower Congo which the United States government rejected, instead supporting the direction of aid through the UN. Later that day Gizenga addressed a moderate letter to Van den Bosch that implored the latter's government to be mindful of the Treaty of Friendship. That evening Kashamura went on the radio to declare that the government was \"indignant\" towards the Belgians' actions in Matadi.\n\nOn the morning of 13 July Bomboko retrieved Belgian officers and their families from Thysville and brought them to the capital. Meanwhile, other ministers went to the Palais de la Nation, where the Chamber was in session. Kashamura pronounced that \"Belgium overwhelmingly voted for the declaration of war against the Congo.\" Delvaux and the President of Léopoldville Province met with the Belgian commander-in-chief of the intervention at N'djili Airport, where the Congolese, after a long debate, agreed to try to set up joint patrols in the capital, \"to organise camaraderie between white and black soldiers\", and for a \"member of the government to be delegated to [the Belgian metropolitan army command] to act in agreement with it\". But in the late afternoon the Congolese government, under the leadership of Gizenga, decided, following the refusal of the United States government, to seek military aid from Ghana, pending the arrival of an international peacekeeping force. Gizenga arranged for all attending ministers to sign the letter so that none could disassociate from it. He announced the decision over radio. During the evening the government sent a letter to Van den Bosch demanding the withdrawal of all Belgian troops from Léopoldville by 05:00 the next day under the threat of severing diplomatic relations.\n\nLumumba and Kasa-Vubu then sent another telegram to the UN, stating that peacekeepers were requested to guard the Congo's sovereignty against Belgian aggression and warning that if the request was not speedily fulfilled they would turn to the Bandung Powers for assistance. The following day they sent a message to Soviet Premier Nikita Khrushchev from Kindu, asking that he monitor the situation in the Congo closely. In New York the UN Security Council adopted UNSC Resolution 143, calling upon Belgium to withdraw its troops and authorising the Secretary-General to send military and technical assistance to the Congo in consultation with the government to restore law and order. This resulted in the establishment of a large UN multinational peacekeeping force (generally known by its French acronym of ONUC). Foreign contingents arrived in the capital shortly thereafter. Hammarskjöld later stated that these were to form a \"temporary security force\" that, although acting with the consent of and performing some of the tasks of the government, was completely under UN command.\n\nLater that day Lumumba and Kasa-Vubu, in part to satisfy pressing demands from Parliament, and also upset by the continuation of military interventions, announced that they were severing diplomatic relations with Belgium:\n\nFollowing first Belgium's flagrant violation of the Treaty of Friendship of 29 June with the Republic of the Congo as to the clause stating that Belgian troops could not be used on Congolese territory without express request by the Government of the Congo and second because of the attack on our territorial integrity which Belgium has committed in provoking the secession of Katanga which attack was proved first by the Belgian troops' refusal to permit the Chief of State to land in Élisabethville Tuesday 12 July and second by the nomination of a Belgian officer to command the army in Katanga, our Government has decided in consequence of the act of aggression against the Republic of the Congo to break off all diplomatic relations with Belgium from this day 14 July 1960.\n\nLumumba and Kasa-Vubu then instructed their Belgian pilot to fly them from Kindu to Stanleyville. Acting under orders from Brussels, he took them to Léopoldville, where they were both greeted by a large Belgian contingent at N'djili Airport. Later they made another attempt to fly to Stanleyville, but their pilot turned back after saying the aircraft suffered a \"fault\". They were harassed by Belgian paratroopers and refugees on their return and were under the impression that Congolese sovereignty was being disrespected. Most Congolese were deeply upset by their treatment and felt that the Belgian intervention—even if initially justified—had gone too far. The leadership began turning its attention away from resolving the ANC's systemic problems and more towards checking Belgian military action. A handful of observers were concerned that Lumumba was acting without proper consultation with his ministers or Parliament.\n\nOn 16 July Lumumba and Kasa-Vubu succeeded in flying to Stanleyville. Lumumba appealed for calm among the garrison, but after hearing of more interventions, he and Kasa-Vubu demanded that all Belgian metropolitan forces withdraw from the Congo in 24 hours or they would request military aid from the Soviet Union. This was done to put pressure on UN officials to ensure the Belgian departure leave open the option of assistance from another party. UN officials reacted to the ultimatum by calling a meeting to N'djili Airport with the Belgian commander-in-chief and Bomboko and Kanza. All present agreed that the demand was unfortunate and that it would not be possible for the Belgians to withdraw so quickly. Bomboko and Kanza, both surprised by the ultimatum, promised to try and secure a retraction of the measure at the next cabinet meeting. Bunche managed to secure assurance from the Belgian command that all metropolitan troops would leave Léopoldville by 23 August. The last of the Belgian troops did not leave the Congo until 7 August, except in Katanga, where the soldiers did not evacuate until 4 September.\n\nOn 17 July Yav, a member of Tshombe's CONAKAT, announced his resignation from the Lumumba Government and departed for Katanga. Nyembo followed suit. Meanwhile, ONUC contingents began disarming mutinous soldiers with considerable success, much due to the cooperation of Mpolo. On 19 July Lumumba had ONUC suspend this practice, on the grounds that such confiscations were humiliating and that if the peacekeepers were not going to resolve the Katangese secession he would need the ANC to be prepared to do so.\n\nParliament was convened in an extraordinary session from late June until late July and its discussions during the time were dominated by the mutiny of the Force Publique and the Katangese secession. On the whole the Chamber of Deputies approved of the government's activities while the Senate did not. Throughout July and August the Senate offered frequent criticism of the actions of the members of the government. On 5 July it refused to offer its consent to Lumumba's suggested state commissioners, citing his failure to consult provincial officials on the nominations (it later confirmed Sendwe as State Commissioner for Katanga). The government found the Senate's insistence on monitoring its activities to be overbearing. On 14 July Lumumba spoke to the Chamber, detailing his treatment by Belgians and Katangese, and explaining that his long absence from the capital was necessitated by his tour to calm the disorders in the interior. He asked that Parliament unite with his government to manage the situation, and most deputies subsequently expressed their support. The following day Kanza, Bomboko, and Delvaux appeared before Parliament to reject accusations of personal \"complicity\" in regards to the Belgian intervention and to affirm their concurrence with the actions taken by Lumumba and Kasa-Vubu to restore order. On 18 July the Senate expressed its disapproval of Lumumba and Kasa-Vubu's threat to seek support from the Soviet Union while the Chamber refused a proposition to grant the government emergency powers. Meanwhile, the nature of the material being issued by Kashamura's Ministry of Information was subjected to an increasing amount of criticism, being labeled \"controlled and distorted\" by Catholic circles. On the initiative of Iléo, the Senate resolved on 19 July to review the content of government press releases and investigate the possibility of a motion of censure against Kashamura.\n\nParliament also sought to review the government's programme. After the issue was initially raised by several senators on 7 July, the Chamber and the House both concurred that the programme had to be tabled by 19 July. The failure for this demand to be met led to two days of intense debate in which several members of Parliament threatened to withdraw their confidence in the government. Multiple senators filed an interpellation on 7 August directed at Lumumba, requesting an answer for the lack of a programme. Eventually one was released by Kashamura in his capacity as Minister of Information. It read in part as follows:\n\n\nGovernmental Declaration\n\nPlan of Economic Co-ordination\nOther matters: Salary policy without discrimination of race...or sex\n\nThe disorder that engulfed the Congo prevented almost all of the government ministries from functioning. Most of this was due to the flight of European functionaries, which had begun leaving \"en masse\" after de Schryver confirmed that all Belgian civil servants would be guaranteed employment in the metropole. By the end of July 5,589 Belgian civil servants had fled the Congo, soon to be joined by an additional 1,129 in August. Almost all of those working for the central government in Léopoldville left. All of the Europeans in the Bureau Central des Traitements (the office in charge of government salaries) had departed, leaving the office in the hands of a Congolese chief clerk. All but one of 175 postal workers vacated their posts, alongside all 542 agricultural experts (some later returned) and most of the 328 Belgians running telecommunications systems. Health services were not as adversely affected, since many of the rural divisions were already managed by Congolese while a substantial number of private practitioners that remained in the country handled work in urban areas. The effects on education were not immediately felt because schools were out of session and most of the teachers were in Europe, though it was unlikely that many would return for September classes. Though the government no longer had to pay the large salaries of many Europeans, the cost benefits were largely offset by the pay increases for soldiers and regular Congolese civil servants (a 30% wage hike for all Congolese functionaries was declared in July). Other administrative areas deteriorated during the time, including sanitation, the postal service, railways, air traffic control, and radio communications. The mutinies deprived the government of an effective means of law enforcement. Provincial institutions were left to operate independently by the collapse. From 20 July onward the Belgian government attempted to stem the flight of functionaries and convinced some to return to their posts. Ambassador Van den Bosch wanted to avoid a total administrative collapse and worked to ensure the retention of Belgian personnel. In doing so he established contacts with ONUC, Congolese ministers in favor of a strong relationship with Belgium, and certain ministries (namely Finance, Economic Affairs, and External Commerce). He also communicated with the remaining Belgian civil servants who were anxious about serving in an administration that had the disapproval of the Belgian government, advising those in the employment of moderate ministers or the Presidency to continue their work while cautioning those attached to the \"extremists\" (e.g. Lumumba and Kashamura) to avoid any undertakings that would harm Belgian interests. Throughout July several ministries, including Agriculture, Justice, and Labor, warned Belgian absentees that if they did not resume their duties their employment would be terminated. In the Ministry of Finance there was entrenched opposition to the return of employees that had fled to Belgium.\n\nMost of the Congolese civil servants filled the leadership gap by electing their peers to senior posts, some of whom had received the abbreviated training in Belgium. A handful of positions were given out based solely on political considerations by politicians or political parties. With some exceptions, the majority of the appointees faced substantial confusion in their new roles. The situation was complicated by the fact that many Belgian functionaries had withdrawn with keys to filing cabinets and destroyed their documents. The handover in the Ministry of Economic Coordination and Planning under Kabangi's leadership was relatively smooth, and the department busied itself with organising the distribution of foreign food aid to the interior of the Congo. At the end of July the ministry dispatched delegations to the provincial capitals in consultation with the UN to appraise the provinces' economic needs. Almost all Belgian employees of the Ministry of Finance vacated their posts, but the transition to Congolese management occurred quickly and with minimal disruption. This was because most of the department's Congolese staff were already experienced accountants, held an apolitical attitude towards their work, and were committed to learning how to operate in their new roles. Their activities were made easier by the fact that Belgian employees of the Central Bank had remained working in the capital. Still, an internal survey concluded that even after the personnel changes and merging of administrative functions 65 additional technicians were needed by the ministry, and recruitment of foreign experts was sought. ONUC personnel also took up many posts in the administration working on a mostly collaborative basis with the Congolese, though they did assume managerial responsibility of health, communication, and some transportation services. ONUC also instituted several successful job training programs for government functionaries. Nevertheless, observers concurred throughout July and August that on the whole the government operated in a state of disorder. Without a functioning administration, the agriculture and construction sectors which depended upon their services suffered, as did public works and parastatals. Critical infrastructure support components such as steamboats, locomotives, agricultural machinery, communications hardware, and dredging equipment, despite sustaining only minimal damage during the army mutinies, were not maintained during the summer and ultimately deteriorated beyond repair.\n\nPublic expenditure regulations, tax collection (especially of income tax), and foreign exchange controls faltered, driving down receipts. There was no effective monitoring of the amount and use of the funds taken by the provincial administrations. Numerous wage increases drove up regular expenses by about £3 million. Payments on the public debt dropped dramatically. The government began running monthly deficits of FC 700 million ($14 million). To handle the costs, the Central Bank began supplying the government with advances of an average of over FC 500 million per month (the statutory limit on advances was twice raised by presidential decree), covering 90% of the deficit.\n\nOn 19 July Kanza and Mandi left for the UN Headquarters in New York City, arriving the following day. That evening the Security Council discussed the Congolese situation and Kanza debated Wigny over the true nature of the Belgian intervention. A new resolution was unanimously adopted, reaffirming the demand for Belgium's withdrawal and granting the Secretary-General the power to take \"all necessary action\" to ensure this was fulfilled. Lumumba intended to go to New York and express the position of his government himself. He was encouraged to do this by some of the other ministers, who felt that Kanza would not offer a strong enough rebuke of Belgian actions.\n\nShortly before his departure Lumumba announced that he had signed an economic agreement with an American businessman who had created the Congo International Management Corporation (CIMCO). According to the contract (which had yet to be ratified by Parliament), CIMCO was to form a development corporation to invest in and manage certain sectors of the economy. He also declared his approval of the second Security Council resolution, adding that \"[Soviet] aid was no longer necessary\" and announced his intention to seek technical assistance from the United States. On 22 July Lumumba left the Congo for New York City. Accompanying him were Kasongo, Joseph Okito (Vice President of the Senate), and a special economic delegation led by Mbuyi, Kiwewa, and Joseph Mbeka (\"chef de cabinet\" in the Ministry of Economic Planning). The group reached the United States two days later after brief stops in Accra and London. There they rendezvoused with Kanza and Mandi at the Barclay Hotel to prepare for meetings with UN officials. Lumumba was focused on discussing the withdrawal of Belgian troops and various options for technical assistance with Hammarskjöld. African diplomats were keen that the meetings would be successful and also convinced Lumumba to wait until the Congo was more stable before reaching any more major economic agreements (like the CIMCO arrangement). The Prime Minister saw Hammarskjöld and other staff of the UN Secretariat on 24, 25, and 26 July. Kanza, Mandi, and other advisers were present for all three meetings. Though Lumumba and Hammarskjöld were hesitant towards one another, their discussions went smoothly. In a press conference Lumumba reaffirmed his government's commitment to \"positive neutralism\".\n\nFollowing the 26 July meeting Hammarskjöld departed for Brussels. After conferring with the Belgian government he flew to Léopoldville where on 28 July he met with the Council of Ministers. Hammarskjöld was surprised by the ministers' anger and impatience in relation to Katanga and ONUC's slow pace of operations. He disapproved of the Lumumba Government's positions, especially its handling of the Congo's dire financial situation. He thought of it as \"a clumsy, inadequate government that does not do the proper thing\" and hoped that it would accept the guiding tutelage of the UN until the Congo Crisis could be resolved. In a telegram to UN Headquarters the Secretary-General described his overall impression of the government:\n\nAfter a number of meetings here with the Cabinet and members of the Cabinet, I have a fairly clear picture of the internal dynamics of politics in the Central Government. The two or three men who may be characterized as moderates and who at all events are men of real integrity, intelligence and sense of national responsibility understand, I believe, fully my approach...However, the vast and vocal majority have a highly emotional and intransigent attitude...Until the Katanga problem is in hand..., there will, I am sure, be a continued drift towards extremism in the Cabinet and a continued weakening of those on whom, in my view, [the] Congo's political future if at all has to be built.\n\nIt was decided that a committee should be established among the cabinet to coordinate with UN officials, consisting of Gizenga (in the place of Lumumba), Bomboko, Kanza, Gbenye, Mwamba, and Mpolo. The following day Gizenga expressed his dissatisfaction with ONUC's leniency towards the Belgian troops and hesitance to enter Katanga. Lumumba showed his concurrence back in New York. Such pressure, combined with the threat of Soviet intervention, convinced Hammarskjöld to take action; he announced that Bunche would lead an advance guard into Élisabethville followed shortly thereafter by UN peacekeeping contingents. Gizenga's demand that government ministers be allowed to accompany Bunche was rejected. Due to several Katangese political maneuvers, Bunche was dispatched to Katanga early on 4 August. He communicated Katangese threats of armed opposition to Hammarskjöld, who decided to postpone the entry of ONUC troops.\n\nOn 27 July Lumumba went to Washington D.C., the United States capital. He met with the American Secretary of State and appealed for financial and technical assistance. The American government informed the Prime Minister that they would only offer aid through the UN. The following day he received a telegram from Gizenga detailing a clash at Kolwezi between Belgian and Congolese forces. Lumumba thus felt that the UN was hampering his attempts to expel the Belgian troops and defeat Katanga. On 29 July he went to Ottawa, the capital of Canada. The Canadians rebuffed a request for technicians and stated that they would channel their assistance through the UN. Frustrated, Lumumba met with the Soviet ambassador and discussed the gifting of military equipment. When he returned to New York the following evening he was incredibly hesitant towards the UN. The attitude of the United States government was also more negative, due to reports of the rapes and violence committed by ANC soldiers and scrutiny from Belgium, which was chagrined by the reception Lumumba had received in Washington. The Belgian government regarded Lumumba as communist, anti-white, and anti-Western, and given their experience in the Congo, many other Western governments gave credence to the Belgian perception. Unites States President Dwight D. Eisenhower shared such views.\n\nFrustrated with the UN's apparent inaction towards Katanga as he departed America, Lumumba decided to delay his return to the Congo and instead visited several African states. This was apparently done to put pressure on Hammarskjöld and, that failing, seek guarantees of bilateral military support to suppress Katanga. Between 2 and 8 August he toured Tunisia, Morocco, Guinea, Ghana, Liberia, and Togoland. Guinea and Ghana pledged independent military support, while the others expressed their desire to work through the United Nations to resolve the Katangese secession. It was also agreed that a summit of African states would be held in Léopoldville between 25 and 30 August to further discuss the issue. Lumumba returned to the Congo, apparently confident that he could now depend upon African military assistance. He also believed that he could procure African bilateral technical aid, which placed him at odds with Hammarskjöld's goal of funneling support through ONUC. Lumumba and some of the ministers were wary of the UN option, as it supplied them with functionaries that would not respond directly to their authority.\n\nBy the end of July opposition to the Lumumba Government had solidified in Parliament. Lumumba's absence from the country allowed these elements to organise and advertise their position. Van den Bosch had taken advantage of the time to establish contacts with the moderate ministers: Bomboko, Delvaux, Kabangi, Kanza, and Mbuyi. Bomboko became the ambassador's most frequent contact and was relayed messages from Wigny. Van den Bosch also developed a relationship with Iléo, who pledged that he would work in tandem with other senators to remove Lumumba from power. On 3 August Bolikango officially denounced Lumumba's policies, followed the next day by the central committee of the MNC-K. The Prime Minister's impatient and improvising approach caused consternation among the civil service, which wished to operate in a calmer, more methodical style. On 27 July Nkayi expressed as much when he held a press conference to share his concerns about the national decline in domestic social and economic activity. Alluding to Lumumba, he denounced \"demagogic statements that harm the interests of the Congolese people\". Through his \"chef de cabinet\", he declared that Lumumba's CIMCO deal was invalid because the cabinet had not been consulted before it was signed. Joseph Malula, the Catholic bishop of Léopoldville, denounced the Lumumba Government's support of separation of church and state, and specifically the secularisation of the latter.\n\nIn order to distract from their activities, opposition groups began peddling a rumor of a Gizenga coup. Suspicious, Lumumba asked Gizenga to lead Bomboko, Kanza, Mwamba, and Mpolo to New York on 8 August to address the UN Security Council. Lumumba's supporters convinced Gizenga to let Bomboko speak for the delegation at the UN. The speech he delivered had been drafted by the other four ministers and was critical of Belgium's actions. This put up a front of cabinet solidarity and briefly discouraged thought of Bomboko's more pro-Belgian attitudes.\n\nLumumba also faced dissent in the central Congo. Following independence, Baluba throughout Katanga and Kasai became the subject of violent attacks. Despite rejecting earlier proposals for Luba repatriations to the province of Kasai in January 1960, Kalonji and his allies made an official call to the Baluba across the Congo to return to their \"homeland\" in the southern portion of the province on 14 July. Initially, they envisaged the division of Kasai in two in order to allow for the creation of a quasi-autonomous MNC-K and Luba-dominated provincial government. Rapidly, however, Kalonji realised that the chaos in the rest of the Congo could be used to secede unilaterally and declare full local independence. On 9 August he announced the secession of the \"Mining State of South Kasai\". This complicated any future military action against Katanga, as the rail line from the military base in Luluabourg to the province ran through Kalonji's territory.\nThroughout August Lumumba increasingly withdrew from his full cabinet and instead consulted officials and ministers he trusted, such as Mpolo, Mbuyi, Kashamura, Gizenga, and Kiwewa. Kasa-Vubu's wishes frequently went unheeded by the government. Lumumba kept Kashamura on in spite of his displayed incompetence and disorganisation, instead addressing the problems by assigning most of Kashamura's responsibilities to his own press secretary, Serge Michel. Meanwhile, the Prime Minister's office was in disarray and few members of his staff did any work. His \"chef de cabinet\", Damien Kandolo, was often absent and acted as a spy on behalf of the Belgian government. Lumumba was constantly being delivered rumors from informants and the Sûreté, encouraging him to grow deeply suspicious of others. Kanza attempted in vain to exercise a moderating influence on the Prime Minister. Gizenga privately expressed his disapproval of Lumumba's methods. All the while Mulele was attempting to organise a student exchange program with Eastern European countries and nationalise Lovanium University. He succeeded in proposing the latter action in a meeting of the Council of Ministers on 16 August, but backlash from Christian groups dissuaded Lumumba and Kasa-Vubu from carrying it out. The Council of Ministers met with decreasing frequency throughout August; by September, it was hardly convening at all. Kabangi, as one of the more moderate ministers, grew distant with Lumumba.\nMeanwhile, large amounts of capital were withdrawn from the country while exports fell dramatically. Without Katangese participation in the economy, hard currency earnings were halved. On 6 August the government responded to the deteriorating situation by adopting a decree that forbade international payments. The order was never published or otherwise communicated to those it would have concerned and the Central Bank still permitted a limited number of transactions. Between 1 July and 15 August the bank's foreign currency reserves fell from about $75 million to $35 million. The Lumumba Government threatened to expropriate the abandoned European enterprises if their owners did not return to the Congo and reopen them, but never followed through with any action. It also sought financial support from the International Monetary Fund and dispatched Nkayi and Delvaux to Geneva for negotiations with Belgian authorities. Lumumba and the Council of Ministers were completely bypassed in the implementation of the decisions agreed upon during the discussions; in early September Nkayi, with the sole sanction of Kasa-Vubu, established a monetary council and began issuing new paper currency. Though it was resolved that the Central Bank would be liquidated, the measure was never carried out.\n\nBy September the government's financial situation was ruinous; a combination of disrupted tax collection, the inaccessibility of Katanga's mining industry, the closure of European enterprises, falling production, and declining volume of foreign trade had brought about a severe reduction in revenue. Neither soldiers, civil servants, nor public contractors could be properly compensated. Affected individuals' faith in the government suffered, as did the overall morale and discipline of the ANC. The authorities were lacking in the necessary financial means to invest in the economy and alleviate unemployment. There were also no funds available for the necessary imports required to keep certain segments of the population fed. Lacking in foodstuffs, these groups withdrew their support for the administration. Lumumba believed that Albert Ndele, Nkayi's \"chef de cabinet\" and the acting Secretary-General of the Ministry of Finance, had directed the Geneva negotiations and would implement Belgium's financial goals at the expense of the Congo's. In an episode that displayed Lumumba's loss of control of the government, he had Ndele dismissed only for the Council of Ministers to reinstate him on 1 September.\n\nThe dire administrative and economic situation caused consternation among the trade unions; the government was threatened with a possible civil servants' strike at the hands of APIC, which was protesting politically partisan appointments. Dissension and subversion campaigns, including the dissemination of anti-Lumumba leaflets and inciting of army mutinies, were organised in Brazzaville with the support of President Fulbert Youlou, Belgian intelligence services, the French Service de Documentation Extérieure et de Contre-Espionnage, and the United States Central Intelligence Agency (CIA). Batshikama, though a secretary of state in the Lumumba Government, spent two hours every evening in Brazzaville hosting an anti-Lumumba radio programme. Wigny directed the Belgian agents there to encourage the Congolese opposition to remove Lumumba through presidential revocation, as a parliamentary motion of censure was deemed too likely to fail. In a meeting with his advisers on 18 August President Eisenhower suggested that he wanted Lumumba to be killed; the CIA subsequently organised an assassination operation. Belgium made similar plans. By the end of the month rumors were circulating in the capital of Western overtures to Kasa-Vubu to replace Lumumba's government.\n\nDuring a meeting on 1 August the Council of Ministers established a new department, the Ministry of Public Function. Ngenge was given charge of the portfolio, while an experienced clerk was made its secretary-general. Within 15 days of its inception the ministry had produced a plan for staggered Africanisation of the administration (taking living wages, staff competence, and fiscal austerity into consideration) and drafted a standard contract of employment for much-needed foreign technicians. At the end of the month the ministry, with the support of the UN, hosted a meeting of the various government secretary-generals to discuss ways of stemming the politicisation of the civil service.\n\nLumumba returned to the Congo on 8 August and soon thereafter met with the Council of Ministers.\nThe following day he proclaimed an \"état d'exception\" throughout the Congo, and his government carried out its expulsion order against Ambassador Van den Bosch. Mandi personally informed the ambassador of the direction, but insisted that his ousting did not signify a permanent rupture between Belgium and the Congo. Lumumba announced that all other Belgian diplomatic staff would face arrest if they did not leave the country. He subsequently issued several orders in an attempt to reassert his dominance on the political scene. The first outlawed the formation of associations without government sanction. A second asserted the government's right to ban publications that produced material likely to bring the administration into disrepute. On 11 August the \"Courrier d'Afrique\" printed an editorial which declared that the Congolese did not want to fall \"under a second kind of slavery\". The editor was summarily arrested and four days later publication of the daily ceased, followed shortly thereafter by the delivery of shut-down orders against the Belga and Agence France-Presse wire services. The press restrictions garnered a wave of harsh criticism from the Belgian media. Lumumba also decreed the nationalisation of Belga, creating the Agence Congolaise de Presse, as a means of eliminating a centre of biased reporting and creating a medium through which the government's platform could be more easily communicated to the public. Bolamba was given responsibility for the agency. Another order stipulated that official approval had to be obtained six days in advance of public gatherings. On 16 August Lumumba announced the installation of a \"régime militaire espécial\" for the duration of six months, including the establishment of military tribunals. He also initiated the arrest of public figures who opposed him.\n\nMeanwhile, Kasa-Vubu faced criticism from ABAKO and President Youlou for not curbing Lumumba's authoritarian actions. He resisted their pressure, and on 13 August he broadcast an appeal for unity and support for the government. Nevertheless, he cautioned the government against arbitrariness and excess:\n\nIf I am under a moral obligation to support and defend the government within the limits set by the law, the members of the government themselves have a duty to work together as a team. Their policy must be the policy of the government and not that of one party, one race, or one tribe. It must be a policy which reflects the interests of the nation and which allows humanitarian values to flourish in freedom. This imperative excludes all feelings of hatred, suspicion, and bad faith towards those who have collaborated loyally with us. It is also the duty of the government to respect the institutions which have been set up and to abide by the normal rules of democratic practice.\nIn New York, the UN Security Council discussed the issue of sending ONUC troops into Katanga. Bomboko debated with Belgian delegates over the nature of the military intervention in Katanga. On 9 August the body passed a resolution that called upon Belgium to withdraw its troops from Katanga with all necessary haste and affirmed that peacekeepers should enter the province, but not act as a party to any belligerent. Tshombe acceded to the resolution, and ONUC established itself in Katanga, but did not interfere with Tshombe's government. Belgian troops grew inactive and were gradually withdrawn. Lumumba remained frustrated and five days later he sent a letter to Hammarskjöld, declaring that the Secretary-General had ignored his obligations under the 14 July resolution to consult the Congolese government before taking action and had failed to assist it in restoring law and order throughout the entire country. He demanded that ONUC confiscate all Katangese munitions and permit its aircraft to transport government officials to Katanga. On 15 August the two exchanged a series of messages. Lumumba grew increasingly hostile towards Hammarskjöld for not adhering to his demands. The Secretary-General felt insulted and believed the Prime Minister was tarnishing the UN's reputation.\n\nWith the UN refusing to take action against the secessions, Lumumba decided that his government would have to reintegrate the territories on its own. A plan detailing the invasions of South Kasai and Katanga by the ANC was put together in the Prime Minister's office in consultation with General Lundula, Gbenye, Grenfell, and Lumumba's private secretary, Marcel Lengema. Colonel Mobutu made a limited contribution to the discussions. Troops were to be dispatched to Kivu and northern Kasai. Those in the former region were to head south into northern Katanga under Jason Sendwe to support the Baluba and other tribal groups that were waging a guerrilla campaign against Tshombe's government. The units in the latter area would neutralise Kalonji before advancing along an eastern course into Katanga.\n\nThe central government's assault to retake South Kasai began on 23 August. Lumbala advised the army during the operation and organised the arrests of the rebel leadership. All Sabena aircraft in the Congo were requisitioned by the government for the offensive, while technical and materiel assistance was requested from the Soviet Union. The Soviets supplied 14 Ilyushin transports and 100 trucks. Soldiers were flown into the Kasai region with little supplies. ANC units secured Bakwanga, the South Kasaian capital, on the night of 27–28 August with little resistance, temporarily ending the secession. Kalonji fled to Élisabethville where he vowed to continue his rebellion. Soldiers began seizing food and vehicles in preparation for the assault on Katanga. Conflict erupted between the army and resident Baluba and quickly degenerated into indiscriminate massacres of the latter by the former. International observers reported the deaths of hundreds of Baluba on 29 and 30 August. Colonel Mobutu ended the campaign on 1 September without consulting the government. Hammarskjöld found the event to be \"a case of incipient genocide\" and believed that Lumumba, having given the orders to commence the offensive in an \"almost casual manner\", had lost all sense of responsibility. The American press depicted the Prime Minister's regime as a Soviet puppet and dependent on Soviet aid. Western opinion held him at fault for the atrocities. The violence and ultimate failure of the anti-secessionist push greatly damaged the government's faltering reputation.\nWhile the operation was underway, Ghanaian officials expressed to Lumumba that the use of Soviet was unwise and that without proper logistical support any offensive would stall. The Prime Minister did not heed their concerns and, seeking African support for the anti-secessionist campaign, proceeded with the Pan-African Conference in Léopoldville. Representatives from 13 independent countries and four nationalist movements attended. The opening of the conference on the morning of 25 August was marred by large demonstrations from ABAKO, PUNA, and MNC-K supporters outside the meeting hall. Police fired into the air to disperse the crowd, inciting panic and greatly disturbing the foreign delegations. In his opening speech, Lumumba spoke broadly and appealed to African unity. Almost all of the delegations recommended that the attack on Katanga be halted and that the Congolese government mend its relations with the UN. Lumumba was disappointed by their attitude and realised that he would not be able to secure their military support and that rapprochement with the UN was necessary. Nevertheless, he was not dissuaded from pursuing the South Kasai–Katanga offensive; on 27 August he flew to Stanleyville to rally reinforcements for the campaign.\n\nBack in the capital, Bomboko chaired the Pan-African Conference. The foreign delegations variously encouraged stronger discipline of the army, better relations with the UN, and that the Congo had to decide whether or not to use force or negotiation against Katanga. In response, the Congolese representatives issued a new policy statement, clarifying that the government was not asking the African states or the UN to attack Katanga but only that the former provide it with technical assistance and refuse Tshombe aid and for peacekeepers to assist in the expulsion of Belgian troops. The statement further said that the government would not negotiate with Tshombe and that the ANC would attempt to occupy Katanga following the Belgian withdrawal and, that failing, an appeal for bilateral African military aid might be made. The foreign delegations accepted the new policy, believing that the offensive against Katanga would soon fail and that they could later mediate a resolution to the secessionist dispute. Following the conference various African diplomats urged UN officials to warm their relations with Lumumba and encourage more cooperation between him and Kasa-Vubu. Hammarskjöld complained that the \"spirit of reconciliation\" had \"gone far too far on the line of compromise\", and said that the \"utterly incompetent\" Lumumba Government had a \"complete misconception of [its] rights in relation to the UN and [its] own role in the world.\" He also added that the Prime Minister should be \"forced to constitutionality\".\n\nThroughout August President Kasa-Vubu became increasingly bothered by Lumumba's growing authoritarianism, the collapse in administration, and the enlarging prospects of civil war. On 3 September he summoned Andrew Cordier (Bunche's interim replacement) to communicate that he was considering dismissing the Prime Minister. Cordier reported the development back to Hammarskjöld, who noted that a \"complete disintegration of authority\" could follow such an action.\n\nAt 20:12 on 5 September Kasa-Vubu announced the dismissal of Lumumba, along with Deputy Prime Minister Gizenga, Minister of Justice Mwamba, Minister of Interior Gbenye, Minister of Information Kashamura, Secretary of State Bolamba, and Secretary of State Lumbala over the radio. He stated that Iléo would form a new government. After Lumumba heard of the firing he held heated discussions with his ministers and made three broadcasts, defending his government and declaring Kasa-Vubu to be deposed. Kasa-Vubu had not declared the approval of any responsible ministers of his decision, making his action legally invalid. Later that day Kasa-Vubu managed to secure the countersignatures of Delvaux and Bomboko to his order. With them, he re-announced his decision at 16:00 over Brazzaville radio. While the dismissals were recognised, the reigning government was, according to Belgian tradition, legally in place until a full administration was formed that could replace it—though Lumumba's opponents disputed such a view. Kasa-Vubu theorised that Iléo could work with the ministers that had not been revoked until he had a government ready for a parliamentary vote. Despite the confusion, Lumumba was still able to exercise his powers and resumed the military campaign against South Kasai and Katanga.\n\nLumumba and the ministers who remained loyal to him ordered the arrest of Delvaux and Bomboko for countersigning the dismissal order. On 7 September the Chamber convened to discuss Kasa-Vubu's dismissal order. Delvaux made an unexpected appearance and took to the dais to denounce his arrest and declare his resignation from the government. The Chamber voted to annul both Kasa-Vubu's and Lumumba's declarations of dismissal, 60 to 19. The following day the Senate delivered the government a vote of confidence, 49 to zero with seven abstentions. Many of the deputies were nonetheless still upset by Lumumba's style of governance. The legislature felt that an understanding needed to be reached between the two to facilitate the return of stable government. The Chamber thus voted to establish a commission of reconciliation to seek a compromise between the President and the Prime Minister. The commission exacted a promise from Lumumba to reshuffle the Council of Ministers and govern with the assistance and supervision of another parliamentary commission (which never materialised). Other attempts at reconciliation were under taken by foreign diplomats in Léopoldville.\n\nOver the next few days little activity was undertaken by Parliament or the Council of Ministers. Lumumba spent his time touring the streets, at Camp Léopold II, and on the radio, declaring himself to still be the legal Prime Minister and employing rhetorical attacks against his political opponents. According to Article 51, Parliament was granted the \"exclusive privilege\" to interpret the constitution. Despite this, Lumumba ignored Serge Michel's urges that he secure a formal vote of constitutional interpretation from Parliament in rejection of the Kasa-Vubu's dismissal order. On 9 September he announced that he had assumed the responsibilities of the Head of State, taken command of the ANC, and dismissed Bomboko, Delvaux, and Nkayi from his cabinet.\n\nIléo proclaimed his completed government on 10 September. According to Belgian tradition, an administration could assume its responsibilities as soon as it was proclaimed, before being subject to parliamentary approval. Among the declared ministers he retained from Lumumba's cabinet were MNC-L members Aloïs Kabangi, Alexandre Mahamba, and Alphonse Songolo and CEREA member Marcel Bisukiro. Kabangi subsequently refused to accept the post. Kisolokele remained a minister of state and Bolya was made Minister of Health. Kalonji, though he did not retract his secessionist project, accepted the post of Minister of Justice. Iléo did not present his government to Parliament for a vote of confidence, and even if he did it was unlikely that he would secure its support. Kasa-Vubu issued an ordinance relieving Kamanga, Rudahindwa, and Lutula of their duties.\n\nOn 13 September Parliament convened in a joint session to discuss the political impasse. Lumumba appealed to them to grant him \"full powers\" to manage the country's crisis but assured that he was ready to seek an understanding with rival political factions. Parliament passed a resolution in accordance with Lumumba's wishes but also established a commission to oversee the government's implementation of the powers. However, the authenticity and legality of the vote was highly questionable. The legislature also instituted a new commission to modify the composition of the Lumumba Government. Fearing that the Iléo Government would never secure a vote of confidence, Kasa-Vubu proceeded to adjourn Parliament for one month.\n\nOn 14 September Mobutu announced over the radio that he was launching a 'peaceful revolution' to break the political impasse and therefore neutralising the President, Lumumba's and Iléo's respective governments, and Parliament until 31 December. He stated that \"technicians\" would run the administration while the politicians sorted out their differences. In a subsequent press conference he clarified that Congolese university graduates would be asked to form a government. Lumumba and Kasa-Vubu were both surprised by the coup. Mobutu shortly thereafter terminated the ANC campaign against Katanga and South Kasai.\nOn 20 September Mobutu announced the formation of the College of Commissioners-General under the chairmanship of Bomboko. Soldiers expelled the remaining politicians from their offices. Of the Commissioners-General, four had each served as \"chef de cabinet\". Both Kanza and Mandi were invited to join the College, but they became disturbed by the body's inclination towards Kasa-Vubu and summarily refused to participate in the administration. Their abstention allowed the government's anti-Lumumba slant to worsen without restraint. Further attempts by African diplomats to reconcile Lumumba and Kasa-Vubu were unsuccessful.\n\nFollowing brief incarceration by Mobutu's troops, Gizenga drove to Stanleyville. Lumumba continued to hold meetings with members of his government, senators, deputies, and political supporters, issue public statements, and maintain that he still held power. Frustrated by the way he was being treated by Lumumba and facing intense political pressure, by the end of the month Mobutu was no longer encouraging reconciliation and had aligned himself with Kasa-Vubu. He ordered ANC units to surround Lumumba's residence, but a cordon of UN peacekeepers prevented them from making an arrest, and Lumumba was thus confined to his home.\n\nOn 11 October Kasa-Vubu issued a \"constitutional decree-law\" officiating the establishment of the College of Commissioners-General, asserting his right as Head of State to appoint and dismiss its members, adjourning Parliament indefinitely, and conferring all legislative authority prescribed to Parliament by the Loi Fondamentale to the College. In time, the College would come to bring about the restoration of some order to the administration that had been lost during the Lumumba Government's tenure. Lumumba frequently attacked the body's credibility. Songolo denounced Lumumba and endorsed the College, but was subsequently arrested by Stanleyville authorities. As the end of the year approached Mobutu backed away from his promise of restoring democratic processes after December and postponed the return to normal governance indefinitely.\n\nOnce confined in Léopoldville, Lumumba began drafting plans to reassert his authority. In a letter dated 17 September addressed to Nkrumah, he stated his intention to relocate his government to Stanleyville. By October, Lumumba's supporters were convinced that few of their goals could be achieved through the College of Commissioners.\nIn New York Kanza reunited with his delegation to represent the Lumumba Government at the UN. His appearance generated hope among Lumumba's supporters that the domestic crisis could be resolved in their favour. Kasa-Vubu dispatched his own delegation. On 20 September the Congo was officially admitted into the UN, but its seat in the General Assembly was left vacant and the issue over which delegation should be seated was referred to the Credentials Committee. After several delays, on 22 November the General Assembly resolved to seat Kasa-Vubu's delegation. The extension of UN recognition to Kasa-Vubu's delegation definitively ended Lumumba's hopes of a legal return to power. The Lumumbists also began to fear that the peacekeepers would no longer provide them protection from arrest.\n\nFollowing his return to the Congo, Kanza avoided arrest by taking refuge in his apartment in a building protected by the UN. The loyal members of Lumumba's government that remained in the capital frequently visited Kanza's apartment to make phone calls to Lumumba on a UN line. On a 26 November phone call, Lumumba shared his intention with Kanza and several other ministers to escape house arrest and go to Stanleyville. Kanza and a few other politicians unsuccessfully attempted to dissuade him from leaving.\nLumumba left the capital in a convoy with Mwamba and Mulele. Instead of heading with all haste to the Orientale Province border (where soldiers loyal to Gizenga were waiting to receive him), Lumumba delayed by touring villages and making conversation with the locals. On 1 December Mobutu's troops caught up with his party as it crossed the Sankuru river. Mobutu's men arrested Lumumba and returned him to Léopoldville. He was subsequently imprisoned at the army camp in Thysville and it was stated that he would be tried for inciting rebellion. Mwamba and Mulele safely crossed the Sankuru and spent several days in the bush before reaching Stanleyville.\n\nOther members of the Lumumba Government fled to the east, some simply because they felt threatened in Léopoldville. Kashamura, Lutula, and Gbenye reached Stanleyville without much difficulty. Kanza, fearing arrest, fled to Brazzaville and sought asylum in Guinea, where he was recognised by President Ahmed Sékou Touré as an official representative of the Lumumba Government. Kanza was later joined there by Kiwewa. Mandi was smuggled out of the Congo by Mobutu, a personal friend, who feared for his safety. Mbuyi attempted to rendezvous with the Lumumbists in Stanleyville but was killed in the Charlesville region. Mpolo also intended on reaching the city, but was arrested in Mushie. He was later transferred to the base in Thysville, along with Joseph Okito. Believing Lumumba to no longer be of much political importance, the United States and Belgium suspended their assassination operations.\n\nAfter Kasa-Vubu's delegation was recognised at the UN, the Lumumbists accelerated their plans to establish a new regime in Orientale Province. The final decision to declare a rival regime was not taken until after Lumumba's arrest. On 12 December Gizenga announced that Stanleyville was the new capital of the Congo. As Lumumba was detained, he declared that he would provisionally assume the role of head of government. Meanwhile, Gbenye, Mwamba, Rudahindwa, Bisukiro, and Lutula, having successfully evacuated to Stanleyville, were given the same posts they had held under Lumumba in Gizenga's government. Kiwewa was appointed ambassador to Ghana, Guinea, and Mali. Mulele was put in charge of all of Gizenga's diplomatic posts abroad. He was stationed in Cairo and was quickly joined by Mandi.\n\nA major reorganisation of the local army units was undertaken and pro-Mobutu elements were purged. In late December, the regime extended its control over Kivu and Kashamura was placed in charge of its provincial administration. Despite the military power it possessed, the Stanleyville government never established an extensive administrative structure, instead functioning in the manner of a government in exile. Still, it had more popular support than either the College of Commissioners-General or Tshombe's government.\n\nOn 13 January 1961, the discipline of the Thysville garrison faltered and soldiers sympathetic to Lumumba unlocked his cell. Kasa-Vubu, Mobutu, and Bomboko managed to restore order through negotiation, but concluded that Lumumba was too controversial a prisoner to be kept at the camp. Over the next few days there was discussion among the central government concerning his ultimate \"elimination\". On 17 January the central government flew Lumumba, Mpolo, and Okito to Élisabethville. That night all three were driven into the nearby forest and, before the Katangese cabinet and numerous Belgian advisers, were shot by a firing squad. Yav, serving as Katanga's Minister of Defence, chose not to attend the execution of his former colleagues.\n\nOn 13 February Munongo announced at a press conference that Lumumba and his two associates had been killed by angry villagers while attempting to escape custody. His story was not widely trusted. The public was shocked upon hearing about Lumumba's death. Soon thereafter it became known that a group of Lumumbist politicians (held as political prisoners by the central government) which had been transferred to South Kasaï were executed by local authorities for \"crimes against the Luba people\". Lumbala was among them. Kamanga, who was put through a traditional tribunal with the others, was sentenced to five years imprisonment but was released in March. The killings enraged Gizenga's troops, and on 20 February a Stanleyville firing squad executed 15 political prisoners, including Songolo. Hoping to defuse the situation, the Léopoldville authorities opened serious negotiations with Gizenga's regime.\n\nOn the international level, the announcement of Lumumba's death led several Eastern Bloc and African states to declare that Gizenga's regime was the sole legal government of the Congo. On 21 February the UN Security Council passed a resolution that permitted ONUC to use military force as a last resort to prevent civil war, established a commission to investigate the deaths of Lumumba, Mpolo, and Okito, and called for the reconvening of Parliament to restore democratic processes to the government.\n\nIn an attempt to indicate a reorientation towards legality, the College of Commissioners was dissolved by Kasa-Vubu on 9 February 1961 and replaced by a new cabinet under Iléo. Bomboko returned to his post as Minister of Foreign Affairs, and Adoula became Minister of Interior. After several failed attempts at rapprochement with Tshombe, the Iléo Government turned towards the Stanleyville regime to strengthen its position against Katanga. This culminated in the decision to reconvene Parliament with the participation of the senators and deputies representing constituencies under the control of both governments.\n\nParliament reconvened in isolation at Lovanium University in late July. The elections of new officers for the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate indicated a small pro-Lumumba/Gizenga majority. However, the United States believed the moderate Adoula, as a firm anticommunist who opposed Katanga's secession, was the best choice for Prime Minister. On 1 August Adoula was appointed \"formateur\" of a new government. The following day he presented his government to Parliament with himself as Prime Minister. Like Lumumba had before him, Adoula also gave himself responsibility over the national defence portfolio. Though Gizenga had remained in Stanleyville during the session, the office of Deputy Prime Minister was returned to his control. Of the other members of the Adoula Government Bomboko, Gbenye, Mwamba, Kabangi, Kamanga, Lutula, Ilunga, Rudahindwa, Bisukiro, Mahamba were all given the same posts that they had held in the Lumumba Government. Two were given different positions; Kisolokele was made Minister of Work and Social Welfare and Bolya was made Secretary of State for Justice. Delvaux and Kashamura were both absent from the government, the former because his loyalties were considered suspect by Parliament, and the latter because the repressiveness of his rule of Kivu Province had horrified his colleagues.\n\nAn intensive lobbying and bribery campaign conducted by Western espionage agencies ensured Adoula parliamentary support; the government was delivered a near-unanimous vote of confidence. The constitutional crisis provoked by Lumumba's revocation on 5 September 1960 was thus resolved, though several non-aligned states delayed their recognition of Adoula's government in preference to Gizenga, who they believed was Lumumba's proper successor. In Stanleyville popular opinion was satisfied by the formation of the new government and it was hoped that Lumumba's original policies should be carried out. Gizenga used his position to pressure Adoula to take action against Katanga. The Adoula Government maintained that its foreign policy was a continuity of the Lumumba Government's, specifically with its ostensible pursuance of non-alignment and seeking of assistance from other African states. Regardless of the appearance of a coalition, Adoula's inclusion of the Lumumbists in his cabinet was only a gesture to temporarily stabilise his position; throughout 1962, Lumumbists were gradually purged from the government, probably at the advice of the United States. Of the 23 ministers that were turned over during the year, 15 were supporters of Lumumba. By April 1963 only one out of the seven ministers and two secretaries of state from Gizenga's regime integrated into Adoula's government in 1961 remained.\n\nThe South Kasaian secession was put down by the ANC in October 1962. That December Katangese forces attacked UN peacekeepers, prompting a strong counter-offensive that resulted in the collapse of the Katangese secession in January 1963. Nevertheless, suppression of the Lumumbists continued and the population grew increasingly discontented with the administration. In early 1964 leftist rebellions were initiated by Gbenye and Mulele with the goal of overthrowing Adoula. Tshombe was brought back into Congolese public life in July 1964 with Belgian encouragement to replace Adoula as Prime Minister and suppress the insurrections. By 1965 the revolt was mostly defeated. Kasa-Vubu dismissed Tshombe in October and attempted to replace him, triggering another political crisis that led to Mobutu seizing power on 25 November. Under his rule, power was concentrated in the executive, a unitary state was established and political activity was restricted. Gizenga fled the Congo after the 1965 coup and spent many years abroad trying to secure support to overthrow Mobutu. The prospect of multi-party elections in 1992 led him to return to the country and organise the Parti Lumumbiste Unifié. Mobutu was deposed in 1997. Gizenga served as Prime Minister of the Congo from 2006 until 2008.\n\nThe Lumumba Government proved unable to maintain its cohesiveness in the face of successive crises. Its weakness was in part derived from its origin as a coalition of unitarian and federalist elements; Lumumba faced intense opposition in the use of emergency powers from the federalists who feared he would employ them to construct a centralised state. The ministers had varying perceptions of the domestic situation and different ideas on how it could best be solved; the cabinet was thus never able to function smoothly. Professor of Political Science Catherine Hoskyns asserted that had Kasa-Vubu and Lumumba not cooperated with each other so closely in July, the government would have collapsed much sooner than September. The Lumumba Government's weakness ultimately encouraged politicised ethnic elements to seek the institution of a more federalised constitution. One was adopted in 1964, dividing the six provinces into 21 new zones on the principles of ethnic and regional self-determination. Central authority was subsequently fragmented. The issues of federalism, ethnicity in politics and state centralisation were not resolved during the remainder of the Congo Crisis and partly contributed to a decline in support for the concept of the state among Congolese people.\n\nThe Lumumba Government's removal from power and Lumumba's subsequent death greatly damaged the Pan-Africanist movement. According to Adoula's administration, the absence of the Congo from multilateral discussions throughout 1961 caused the international community to \"forget\" the Pan-African goals of Lumumba's government. With the sole exception of the institution of the monetary council, under its rule no significant change was made to the Congo's financial structure. Undercut by the secessions and political infighting and lacking in international support, the government proved unable to reform the economy in Lumumba's nationalist fashion (attempts at reform did not occur until Tshombe's premiership).\n\nThe international press viewed the government's tenure as one dominated by acute crisis and severe instability. Historian Jean-Claude Willame wrote that, in light of the difficult situation the Lumumba Government inherited, its time in power was worthy of a more nuanced appraisal. According to the Adoula Government, \"Everything indicates that with the loyal cooperation of the Belgian troops, the government of Mr. Lumumba could have restored order all over the territory.\" Tukumbi Lumumba-Kasongo argued that the regime attempted to reform the state in a democratic fashion but was frustrated by foreign imperialists and their domestic allies. A 2010 editorial published by \"The Guardian\" asserted, \"[T]he challenge of running a vast country whose population had been denied basic education by Belgian rulers interested only in exploiting its wealth would have sunk any government.\" According to Mueni wa Muiu and Guy Martin, Lumumba's administration \"inherited an empty shell and empty coffers in lieu of a state\" and \"was definitively set up for failure\".\n\nIn 1966 Mobutu declared Lumumba a \"national hero\". On 1 July 2010 Gizenga, Bomboko, Gbenye, and Bisukiro were awarded the Grand Cordon of the Ordre National Héros Nationaux Kabila-Lumumba by President Joseph Kabila.\n\n"}
{"id": "1710883", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1710883", "title": "MEDIA Programme", "text": "MEDIA Programme\n\nThe MEDIA Programme of the European Union is designed to support the European film and audiovisual industries. It provides support for the development, promotion and distribution of European works within Europe and beyond. The current MEDIA 2007 programme (2007-2013) is the fourth multi-annual programme since 1991. (MEDIA 95 (1991 – 1995), MEDIA II (1996 – 2000),\nMEDIA Plus (2001 – 2006), MEDIA 2007 (2007 – 2013)).\nAdditionally, MEDIA Mundus (2011-2013) was created for the cooperation between Europe and third countries. A new seven years' programme is currently being negotiated within the EU institutions on the basis of the Commission's proposal of a new programme for Creative Europe. \nFrom MEDIA European producers can apply for grants to film-, televisions- and interactive projects, festivals and markets can apply for promotion events on behalf of European films, distributors and sales agents for support to launch non-national films in European theatres. Training providers may apply for training activities for increasing the competence and cooperation among the professionals, and MEDIA Mundus provides for closer collaboration between Europe and audiovisual players in third countries.\n\nIn general the MEDIA Programme of the European Union supports phases before and after never ends production of audiovisual works. The production phase is mainly financed by national and regional financiers but also finds funds in the private sector. \nMEDIA's main objectives are:\nThe target groups are that many different players of the audiovisual industries:\nProducers, distributors, sales agents, film schools, training providers, film festivals, film markets, cinema owners, technology providers and others.\n\nIn order to obtain its objectives, the MEDIA Programmes offer a variety of support schemes:\nTraining\nMEDIA provides international professional training opportunities by co-financing over 60 courses in script and project development; management, legal and finance issues; marketing and distribution; new media and new technology; animation; and documentaries. \nInformation on calls about Training on the MEDIA programme official website\n\nDevelopment fundingMEDIA supports independent European production companies in the development of animation, creative documentaries or fiction projects intended for European and international TV and theatrical markets. Support is provided for single projects or a slate of\nthree to five projects. Similar support is available for interactive works developed specifically to complement an audiovisual project.\nInformation on calls about Development funding on the MEDIA programme official website\n\nAccess to Finance\n“i2i Audiovisual” facilitates access to financing from banks and other financial institutions by subsidising part of the production-related financial costs, such as insurance, financial interest and completion bonds.\nInformation on calls about \"i2i Audivisual\" on the MEDIA programme official website\n\nMEDIA Production Guarantee Fund\nThis fund facilitates access to private sources of financing for film producers by guaranteeing part of their bank loans. The scheme is implemented by the Institut pour le Financement du Cinéma et des Industries Culturelles in France and the Sociedad de Garantía recíproca para el Sector Audiovisual in Spain.\n\nSupport for television broadcasting\nThis funding encourages independent European audiovisual production companies to produce work (fiction, documentaries or animated films) that involves the participation or cooperation of at least three broadcasters – and preferably more – from several Member States.\nInformation on calls about Television broadcasting on the MEDIA programme official website\n\nSupport for Distribution\nMEDIA supports the circulation of European audiovisual works across MEDIA Programme countries. Financial backing is available as automatic or selective support for distributors, automatic support for sales agents, support for Video on Demand and Digital\nCinema Distribution (VOD-DCD), and support to cinemas through the Europa Cinemas network. \nInformation on calls about Distribution on the MEDIA programme official website\n\nPilot Projects\nPilot projects ensure that the latest developments on the information and communication technology markets are introduced and taken up by the players of the European audiovisual sector.\nInformation on calls about Pilot Projects and VOD on the MEDIA programme official website\n\nMarket Access\nMEDIA supports most major markets and co-production forums in Europe in order to foster the greatest possible diversity and quality of projects and works, as well as the mobility of professionals. MEDIA also provides an umbrella stand, advisory and logistic services for European professionals at the European Film Market (Berlin), MIPTV, MIPCOM and the Marché du Film at the Festival de Cannes\nInformation on calls about Market access on the MEDIA programme official website\n\nFestivals\nEvery year the MEDIA programme supports nearly one hundred festivals in Europe notable for their particularly rich and varied programme of European films, their efforts to engage with the general public and their activities involving professionals in large numbers. \nInformation on calls about Festivals on the MEDIA programme official website\n\nMEDIA Mundus\nLaunched in 2011, the MEDIA Mundus programme is a broad international cooperation programme for the audiovisual industry to strengthen cultural and commercial relations between Europe’s film industry and filmmakers from other countries. The EU was providing EUR 5 million of funding per year from 2011 to 2013 for projects submitted by audiovisual\nprofessionals from Europe in cooperation with their counterparts from the rest of the world.\nMEDIA Mundus finances training, networking and market events for professionals and encourages distribution and circulation of European and international films. \nInformation on calls about MEDIA Mundus on the MEDIA programme official website\n\nThe division of the total budget across these five action lines shows that the distribution of\nEuropean works is a clear priority. The goal is to increase their circulation outside their\noriginating country and worldwide.\nThe programme had a budget of €755 million for the 2007‒2013 period. <br>\nBudget line divide:\nDistribution 55%<br>Development 20%<br> Promotion 9%<br> Training 7%<br> Horizontal actions/\nPilot projects 5%/4%\n\nThe Commission’s proposal for a Creative Europe programme for the period 2014-2020 brought the current culture and audiovisual programmes under a single umbrella with distinct identities. The newly proposed programme consists of three strands: one for MEDIA, one for Culture and a cross-sectoral strand to promote cross-border policy cooperation and foster innovative approaches to audience building and access to finance.\n\nMEDIA supported films include:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nMEDIA Participation\nThe MEDIA Programme addresses in particular small and medium-sized companies (SMEs) in the participating countries. In addition to the 28 EU-countries (Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Ireland, Italy, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, Netherlands, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, UK), also Iceland, Liechtenstein, Norway and Switzerland are members of the MEDIA Programme.\nMEDIA Desks and Antennas have been established in all participating countries. These are national offices for promotion, information and guidance – and constitute in itself a valuable network of knowledge and cooperation within the European audiovisual industries.\n\nYearly nearly one hundred film festivals receive MEDIA support. Among them:\nBrussels Film festival/\nKraków Film Festival/\nZagreb Film festival/\nSemaine de la Critique de Cinema, Cannes/\nNordic Filmdays, Lübeck/\nDOK.fest, Munich/\nThessaloniki Film Festival/\nGothenburg International Film festival.\n\nMarkets are opportunities for professionals to meet, exchange ideas, learn and network. The MEDIA Programme invests some EUR 10 million annually in the development of a coordinated framework of regional and international markets. Amongst them are:\nMarché du Film, Cannes/\nMIPTV & MIPCOM, Cannes/\nEuropean Film Market, Berlin/\nThe European Film Awards/\nEuropean Film promotion/\nCartoon Movie/\nEuropean Documentary Network/\nNew Nordic Films/\nIDFA, Amsterdam.\n\nMEDIA provides international professional training opportunities by co-financing over 60 courses in script and project development, management, legal and finance issues, marketing and distribution, new media and new technology, animation and documentaries. The courses share a common goal: the collaboration and competitiveness of the European film industry. \nACE/\nFocal/\nErich Pommer Institute/\nEAVE/\nBerlinale Talent Campus/\nCartoon Masterclasses/\nPower to the Pixel.\n\nMEDIA is an abbreviation from French: Mesures pour Encourager le Développement de L'Industrie Audiovisuelle - \"measures to support the development of the audiovisual industries.\nThe MEDIA programme used to be jointly run by the European Commission Directorate-General for Education and Culture (DG EAC) and the Education, Audiovisual & Culture Executive Agency (EACEA Unit P8), which was in charge of the operational management of the MEDIA programme. Since 2014, it is run by the European Commission Directorate-General for Communications Networks, Content and Technology (CONNECT).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5202690", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5202690", "title": "Michèle Bernstein", "text": "Michèle Bernstein\n\nMichèle Bernstein (born 28 April 1932) is a French novelist and critic, most often remembered as a member of the Situationist International from its foundation in 1957 until 1967, and as the first wife of its most prominent member, Guy Debord.\n\nBernstein was born in Paris, of Russian descent. In 1952, bored by her studies at the nearby Sorbonne, she began to frequent Chez Moineau, a bar at 22 . There she encountered a circle of artists, writers, vagabonds and petty criminals who were beginning to establish themselves as the Letterist International. With one of these, Patrick Straram, she toured Le Havre in August 1952, in order to see the places upon which Jean-Paul Sartre's \"Nausea\" had been modelled. On 17 August 1954, she married another member of the group, Guy Debord, and took a more active role in contributing to its publications (primarily its bulletin, \"Potlatch\"). Bernstein recalls that Debord had earlier tried to pick her up in a café in front of the Sorbonne, but that she had shaken her cigarette and said something disparaging. However, they first became friends, and then lovers: 'I did love him, and I am sorry he is not here with us now'.\n\nThe Letterist International were primarily concerned with (i) transcending traditional artistic activities to produce 'situations' for themselves; (ii) to drifting aimlessly around urban environments in order to assess their psychogeography; and (iii) to diverting pre-existing texts and other materials to new ends. By 1957, however, most of the members of the Letterist International had either quit or been forcibly excluded, and the remnants opted to fuse with two other groups to form the Situationist International. Bernstein and Debord visited Cosio di Arroscia in July 1957: the Situationist International officially came into being there on 28 July. The other two groups involved were the International Movement for an Imaginist Bauhaus and the London Psychogeographical Committee. The former was an offshoot of the earlier CoBrA group of artists; the latter was not really a 'group' at all, but merely a name given to a single British artist, Ralph Rumney.\n\nThereafter, Bernstein contributed a number of articles to the situationists' journal, \"Internationale situationniste\", either alone or in collaboration with the other members. In the journal's first issue, Bernstein wrote an essay entitled \"No Useless Leniency\" (\"Pas d'indulgences inutiles\") in which she argues for the complicated necessity of splits and schisms within the Situationist International. \"It is necessary to recognize when an encounter in a concrete collective task becomes impossible,\" at which point the collective must be dissolved or reorganize. The radical political work of the International, Bernstein argues, \"should not be subject to the same weaknesses\" and \"modes of continuity or looseness\" as friendship, despite the unavoidable friendships that develop within the group. In her estimation, personal relationships must always remain secondary to the larger Situationist effort.\n\nBernstein published two détourned novels through Buchet/Chastel, whose moderate success helped her convince her publisher to publish Debord's major theoretical text, \"The Society of the Spectacle\" (1967), despite its non-commercial nature. In \"All The King's Horses\" (\"Tous les chevaux du roi\", 1960; republished Paris: Allia, 2004) and \"The Night\" (\"La Nuit\", 1961; republished by Allia in 2013), Bernstein adapts the plot of \"Les Liaisons dangereuses\" to create a \"'roman à clef\" despite itself' featuring characters vaguely based on herself, Debord and his mistress Michèle Mochot. \"All The Kings Horses\" is a détourned novel in the style of the racy, popular novels of Francoise Sagan, while \"The Night\" was a détournement of the avant-garde nouveau-roman style of Alain Robbe-Gillet. Bernstein claims the novels were written as a joke, solely to make money at a time when she and her husband 'were rather skint.' \"All the King's Horses\" has been translated into English by John Kelsey (Semiotext(e)/Native Agents, 2008) \"The Night\" has been translated into English by Clodagh Kinsella (Book Works, 2013).\n\nShe also contributed an article on the situationists to the \"Times Literary Supplement\" (2 September 1964). According to the French philosopher and occasional associate of the Situationist International, Henri Lefebvre, she supported the Situationists financially, by writing horses' horoscopes for racing magazines. Though Bernstein did work a variety of jobs (including in advertising) to support herself and Debord, she has claimed the comment about writing horses' horoscopes was a joke.\n\nDuring the first ten years of its existence, the Situationists continued the work of the Letterist International, and extended them in new directions. Feeling that they had already adequately transcended art, the group began to take on much more of a socio-political character, as they sought to realise their philosophy. Their greatest moment came in the uprising of May 1968, which they might not have caused but which they certainly encouraged. Bernstein herself, however, had officially retired from the group the previous year. Her marriage to Debord had broken down as he became close to Alice Becker-Ho. The marriage was officially dissolved on 5 January 1972, and he proceeded to marry Alice on 5 August.\n\nA few years later, Bernstein happened to encounter Ralph Rumney. Rumney, notwithstanding his presence at the foundation of the Situationist International, had been excluded after only about nine months. They had not seen one another for some twenty years, but they fell in together again and got married. Rumney later speculated that her primary reason for marrying him was to get British citizenship. In any case, they seemed happy together, and remained close, just as Bernstein did with Debord himself even after the split. She settled in Salisbury, England, and, from 1982, she worked as a literary critic for the French journal, \"Libération\". Rumney offers the following observation about Bernstein:\n\n"}
{"id": "21340687", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21340687", "title": "National Strategy for a Sustainable America", "text": "National Strategy for a Sustainable America\n\nThe United States agreed, along with all of the other UN Member States, to develop and implement a National Strategy for Sustainability first during the Earth Summit Conference in Rio de Janeiro in 1992 and then again during the World Summit on Sustainable Development in Johannesburg in 2002. President Bill Clinton established a President's Council on Sustainable Development that met for six years during the 1990s and developed a series of reports and recommendations for creating a more sustainable America. , a \"Director of Sustainable Development\" in the U.S. Department of Agriculture has a mission of advancing the principles and goals of sustainable development through partnerships, collaboration, and outreach.\n\nMost of the recommendations that were made have still not been implemented. A number of working groups have thus written to the Obama Administration urging it to develop and implement such a National Strategy for Sustainability. Many recommendations and guidelines have been developed and published for how such a strategy ought to be developed, including by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), IUCN, and the United Nations.\n\nThe Citizens Network for Sustainable Development also submitted a Proposal to Change.org’s Ideas for Creating Change in America web voting competition in December 2008 again urging the Obama Administration to lead the country and people in developing and implementing a National Strategy for Sustainability. This proposal came in the Top Ten out of more than 7700 ideas and 600,000 votes cast overall and was featured in Change.org’s National Advocacy Campaign. The Citizens Network for Sustainable Development (CitNet) is encouraging people and organizations to contribute their ideas for how such a National Strategy could be developed and implemented, along with the types of things that could and should be included in it.\n\nIf a consensus builds, ideas and a framework will be posted here to provide information about what the American people believe should be included in a National Strategy and how the process should be carried out and implemented. It will be based upon a solid foundation, building on the guidelines and recommendations that have been developed by national and international organizations and the primary stakeholder groups in the US, along with sustainability experts, practitioners, and concerned Americans from across this great land of ours. \n\nThe United States has also agreed to participate in the development of a Ten Year Framework on Sustainable Production and Consumption. A network has been developed in North America to support the efforts of our federal government in this regards. The focus on Sustainable Production and Consumption will also be featured as a major component in the development and implementation of the National Strategy for a Sustainable America.\n"}
{"id": "29596078", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29596078", "title": "Notifiable Offence", "text": "Notifiable Offence\n\nA Notifiable Offence is any offence under United Kingdom law where the police must inform the Home Office, who use the report to compile crime statistics. The term Notifiable Offence is sometimes confused with Recordable Offence. \n\nThere are strict rules regarding the recording of crime which is outlined in the National Crime Recording Standards and the Home Office Crime Counting Rules. An incident will be recorded as a crime (notifiable offence);\n\nFor offences against an identifiable victim if, on the balance of probability;\n\n(1) The circumstances as reported amount to a crime defined by law (the police will determine this, based on their knowledge of the law and counting rules and,\n\n(2) There is no credible evidence to the contrary.\n\nFor offences against the Crown (State) the points to prove to evidence the offence must clearly be made out, before a crime is recorded.\n\nThe following offences are generally categorised as notifiable offences;\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15833885", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15833885", "title": "Operação Prato", "text": "Operação Prato\n\nOperation Plate () was an investigation carried out between 1977 and 1978 by the Brazilian Air Force, commanded by Captain Uyrangê Hollanda, following alleged waves of UFO sightings around Colares, Belém, São Luís, which according to Jacques Vallée allegedly appeared to result in human deaths.\n\nThe investigation was closed after the military publicly reported they found no public phenomena, although the military had reported recording a number of UFO sightings themselves during the investigation.\n\nIn 1977, numerous UFOs were reported in the Brazilian city of Colares, Pará. UFOlogists claimed that lights in the sky fired beams at people, supposedly causing injuries and sucking blood from 400 individuals. Local residents claimed that scars on their bodies were caused by the lights in the sky, and named the lights \"Chupa Chupa\" (literally \"Sucker-Sucker\"). Believing it would keep the lights away, residents of Colares organized night vigils lit fires, and ignited fireworks. Mayor José Ildone Favacho Soeiro requested help from the Air Force. A number of people were reported to be killed as a result of the \"lights\" fired upon them by the UFOs during this wave of sighting.\n\nAccording to Vallée, the UFO sightings and reported resultant injuries, caused a massed emigration from the Colares island. By the end of the 1977 wave, Dr Wellaid Cecim Carvalho de Oliveira reported that he had treated 35 injured victims, primarily suffering burn lesions. Jacques Vallée believes the light beamed down may have been a result of a combination of ionizing and non-ionizing radiation, and that the injuries were consistent with the effects of high-powered pulsed microwaves.\n\nAn additional wave of UFO sightings in 1981 around Panorama, Brazil, reportedly (according to Vallée) killed at least five people. The victims included:\n\nAccording to Jacques Vallée, each victim had been hit with \"lights\" projected from UFOs, during UFO sightings. Their injuries were according to Vallée, consistent with radiation effects.\n\nThe operation was commanded by Captain Uyrangê Bolivar Soares Nogueira de Hollanda Lima. During late 1977, several pictures of lights were recorded but the military remained skeptical. After approximately four months, the operation was closed after declaring they had found no unusual phenomena. The official documents can be obtained from the Brazilian National Archives (Arquivo Nacional). The military had made a number of UFO sightings of their own, during the investigation.\n\nIn 1997, two decades after the operation, Captain Uyrangê Hollanda, who had headed the military investigation, gave an interview to Ademar José Gevaerd and Marco Antônio Petit where he recounted his experiences commanding the investigation. In 1997, Captain Uyrangê claimed that the military had obtained hundreds of photographs and several films of the UFO presence, that he and his men had personally witnessed the UFOs during the investigation, and that the UFOs had been tracked by the military observers travelling at impossible speeds. Three months after the interview, he was found dead in his home \"after he seemingly hung himself using the belt of his bathrobe\", prompting suspicion and speculation from some quarters.\n\n"}
{"id": "43657137", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43657137", "title": "Orange Guard", "text": "Orange Guard\n\nThe Orange Guard (Bulgarian: \"Оранжева гвардия\") was a Bulgarian paramilitary organization, belonging to the Bulgarian Agrarian National Union (BANU). It existed during the time that the agrarian leader Aleksandar Stamboliyski served as Prime Minister (1919-1923), both serving as his bodyguards and enacting the government's radical land reform policies. The militia was unofficially named the Orange Guard by the opposition, in reference to BANU's official color.\n\nThe radical left-wing politician and one-time leader of the Radomir Rebellion of 1918, Rayko Daskalov (who held several ministerial posts in the BANU government), personally commanded the Orange Guard, having suggested its creation.\n\nThe militia was involved in a number of violent confrontations with the political opposition, such as quelling the large transport strike of 1919-1920 (organized by Communists, Anarchists and Socialists) and attacking the founding convention of the right-wing Constitutional Bloc in 1922. It also clashed with the Internal Macedonian Revolutionary Organization. After Benito Mussolini held his March on Rome in October 1922, the National Alliance (a military-academic opposition group) considered launching a \"March on Sofia\", but abandoned the idea out of fear for Orange Guard retaliation.\n\nWhen the Agrarian government was ousted in a coup d'état led by the military and a coalition of right-wing parties, in cooperation with the IMRO and agents from Fascist Italy, most of the Orange Guard was concentrated in the capital of Sofia. The attack came as a surprise to the peasant militiamen, who were quickly disarmed. The organization was later dissolved by the new government of Aleksandar Tsankov. Its commander, Rayko Daskalov, was later assassinated on August 23 in Prague (where he had formed a BANU government in exile) on orders of the IMRO leader Todor Aleksandrov.\n\n"}
{"id": "21406557", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21406557", "title": "Ploteus", "text": "Ploteus\n\nPLOTEUS is an acronym of Portal on Learning Opportunities Throughout European Space, meant to connote \"πλωτηρ\" (ploter) which means \"navigator\" in ancient Greek. It is a European Union web portal, coordinated by the European's Commission Directorate-General for education and culture, that aims to help citizens find out about education and training opportunities, throughout the countries belonging to the European Union, Switzerland, Iceland, Norway and Turkey, though the latter did not participate in PLOTEUS at its launch, as it was not a member of the Leonardo da Vinci programme yet. According to France 5, the portal offers an \"easy access\" to an \"excellent source of information\" from primary school to postgraduate education. PLOTEUS has been prioritised as a \"project of common interest\" by the European Commission (Commission Decision of 23 December 2002, article 8.2.c). The European Parliament and the European Council have confirmed in 2006 their \"support for transnational web-based services such as PLOTEUS\". The portal is run by the Euroguidance network, financed by the Leonardo da Vinci programme, and is interconnected with EURES, the European Commission's portal on job mobility information. Both PLOTEUS and EURES are considered as examples of \"pan-European services\". After the launch of PLOTEUS and EURES in 2003, the Bologna process drive to favour student mobility in Europe wa further expressed in 2004 by the launch of the Europass program, which is accessible from the EURES portal, as well as PLOTEUS.\n\nThe project was initiated in 2001, further to the conclusions of the Lisbon and Stockholm European Councils (March 2000 and March 2001), as part of the Bologna process, with the purpose to put into effect the right to freedom of movement for European citizens by providing the necessary information on learning opportunities called for by the Conclusions of the 2000 Lisbon Council and making national service inter-operable throughout Europe. It was developed by Atos. The total development cost was €849,000, while the yearly running cost was initially estimated at €250,000.\n\nThe portal was officially launched in March 2003 by Viviane Reding, the Commissioner for Education, Culture, Youth, Media and Sport, during an informal meeting of the ministries for education in Athens. According to the European Commissioner, the project \"makes it easier to find the necessary information to study and train in another part of Europe\" It provided information on education systems, qualifications, grants and tuition fees in the EEC countries. It also provided practical help on matters such as finding a place to stay, living costs, the legal aspects of studying abroad, taxes, and social security as well as facilitating exchange programmes and the process of moving from one Member State to another. In this first phase, the portal provided access to about 5,000 links available in 11 languages. Approximately 60,000 entries were registered by the end of 2003. People with disabilities were prioritised as a target group. At this stage, it did not directly provide information about single courses but pointed the user toward websites and/or databases, where the required information could be found. The disadvantage of this solution was that it required the user to access different websites with different user interfaces, and of course different classification systems, languages and educational models. In a report of January 2004, the European Commission stated PLOTEUS I was \"only the first step, to be followed by a service which will offer citizens direct access to information on learning opportunities, by making national services inter-operable throughout Europe. After discussion with the competent national authorities, a tender has been launched and the development work will start early in 2004.\" The number of visits, estimated in June 2003 at between 1,500 and 2,000 per day, reached 60,000 per month in 2005. According to 2004 external evaluation, the PLOTEUS portal was considered by 2 thirds of the users \"useful for their work\". Nevertheless, according to a paper published in 2006, though \"laudable in its aims to help citizens find out information about studying in Europe\", the PLOTEUS portal \"presents learners with a bewildering assortment of learning opportunities, each leading the enquirer to the vagaries of providers’ websites [and] none of the information offered to learners is standardised or predictable, making it difficult to determine which goals can be reached by which routes\". Another paper criticised the fact these \"important instruments\" did not exist everywhere and were not completely available in English.\n\nThe aim of the second phase was to make it possible to query directly the content of national databases through the interface of the European portal, and thus to obtain in PLOTEUS direct answers to specific queries about single courses. In order to interconnect national databases in the European portal, a common protocol was developed by member states, using clusterpoint. The site provided as of December 2006 more than 7,000 links to existing information resources in 31 countries and was available in 24 languages. As of 2009, it received, depending on sources, between 800,000 and over 1,000,000 visits per year. In 2010, its promotion was incorporated in the \"Youth on the Move\" campaign launched by the European Commission to extend opportunities for learning mobility to all young people in Europe by 2020. The EEC council recommendation of 28 June 2011 stated member states should \"cooperate with the Commission to further develop and update the PLOTEUS portal on learning opportunities, namely by increasing the number of national information resources that citizens can directly access through the multilingual Ploteus interface\".\n\nAccording to a paper by Ignaco Criado in 2011, the PLOTEUS project is \"one of the most relevant\" example of \"pan-European eGovernment services\" developed during the last years in the EEC : it \"has enabled the retrieval of comparable data from different national data sources, which required a common protocol for categorization approved by the Commission and member states. On the basis of the follow-up study of this program, an interconnection of national databases has been implemented using web services as a technical solution. Thus, data are updated at national level, and the PLOTEUS portal accesses national databases for information required to answer citizen requests\". Another paper considers the project as an example of \"convergence and europeanization of public administration\". Nevertheless, another paper suggests PLOTEUS does not play an important role in students' decision-making process in case of exchange programs.\n\n"}
{"id": "3808439", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3808439", "title": "Potty parity", "text": "Potty parity\n\nPotty parity is equal or equitable provision of public toilet facilities for females and males within a public space.\nParity may be defined in various ways in relation to facilities in a building. The simplest is as equal floorspace for male and female washrooms. Since men's and boys' bathrooms include urinals, which take up less space than stalls, this still results in more facilities for males. An alternative parity is by number of fixtures within washrooms. However, since females on average spend more time in washrooms more males are able to use more facilities per unit time. More recent parity regulations therefore require more fixtures for females to ensure that the average time spent waiting to use the toilet is the same for females as for males, or to equalise throughputs of male and female toilets.\n\nWomen/girls often spend more time in washrooms than men/boys, both for physiological and cultural reasons. The requirement to use a cubicle rather than a urinal means urination takes longer and hand washing must be done more thoroughly. Females also make more visits to washrooms. Urinary tract infections and incontinence are more common in females. Pregnancy, menstruation, breastfeeding, and diaper-changing increase usage. The elderly, who are disproportionately female, take longer and more frequent bathroom visits.\n\nA variety of female urinals and personal funnels have been invented to make it easier for females to urinate standing up. None has become widespread enough to affect policy formation on potty parity.\n\nJohn F. Banzhaf III, a law professor at George Washington University, calls himself the \"father of potty parity.\" Banzhaf argues that to ignore potty parity, that is, to have merely equal facilities for males and females, constitutes a form of sex discrimination against women. In the 1970s the Committee to End Pay Toilets in America made a similar point: that allowing toilet providers to charge for the use of a cubicle while urinals required no money was unfair to women.\n\nSeveral authors have identified potty parity as a potential rallying issue for feminism, saying all women can identify with it; however, this excludes some transgender women.\n\nThe first bathroom for congresswomen in the United States Capitol was opened in 1962.\n\nSegregation of toilet facilities by race was outlawed in the United States by the Civil Rights Act of 1964. Provision of disabled-access facilities was mandated in federal buildings by the Architectural Barriers Act of 1968 and in private buildings by the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990. No federal legislation relates to provision of facilities for women. The banning of pay toilets came about because women had to pay to urinate whereas men only had to pay to defecate.\n\nIn many older buildings, little or no provision was made for women because few would work in or visit them. Increased gender equality in employment and other spheres of life has impelled change. Until the 1980s, building codes for stadiums in the United States stipulated more toilets for men, on the assumption that most sports fans were male.\n\nThe first \"Restroom Equity\" Act in the United States was passed in California in 1989. It was introduced by then-Senator Arthur Torres after several long waits for his wife to return from the bathroom.\n\nFacilities for female U.S. senators on the Senate Chamber level were first provided in 1992.\n\nLP Field in Nashville, Tennessee was built in 1999 in compliance with the Tennessee Equitable Restrooms Act, providing 288 fixtures for men and 580 for women. \"The Tennessean\" reported fifteen-minute waits at some men's rooms, compared to none at women's rooms. The Act was amended in 2000 to empower the state architect to authorize extra men's rooms at stadiums, horse shows and auto racing venues.\n\nIn 2011 the U.S. House of Representatives got its first women’s bathroom near the chamber (Room H-211 of the U.S. Capitol). It is only open to women lawmakers, not the public.\n\nCurrent laws in the United Kingdom require a 1:1 female–male ratio of restroom space in public buildings. The International Building Code requires a 2:1 female–male ratio of toilets. New York City Council passed a law in 2005 requiring roughly this in all public buildings. An advisory ruling had been passed in 2003. U.S. state laws vary between 1:1, 3:2, and 2:1 ratios. The Uniform Plumbing Code specifies a 4:1 ratio in movie theaters.\n\nGender-neutral toilets are common in some contexts, including on aircraft, on trains or buses, portable toilets, and accessible toilets. In parts of Europe they are also common in buildings. In the United States, they began to appear in the 2000s on university campuses and in some upmarket restaurants. As of late 2013 gender-neutral toilets are still limited to universities and some public restrooms.\n\nAlthough gender-neutral toilets were introduced to the U.S. in 2000 it wasn't until 2013 that the state of California passed bill 1266 (\"The School Success and Opportunity Act\") also recognized as the \"transgender bathroom bill\" which enforces gender-neutral toilets at universities. Bill 1266 only targets a small group of the population in the United States. Most range from 18–24 years old \n\nIn 2011 a \"Right to Pee\" (as called by the media) campaign began in Mumbai, India's largest city. Women, but not men, have to pay to urinate in Mumbai, despite regulations against this practice. Women have also been sexually assaulted while urinating in fields. Thus, activists have collected more than 50,000 signatures supporting their demands that the local government stop charging women to urinate, build more toilets, keep them clean, provide sanitary napkins and a trash can, and hire female attendants. In response, city officials have agreed to build hundreds of public toilets for women in Mumbai, and some local legislators are now promising to build toilets for women in every one of their districts.\n\nOn 19 February 2012, some Chinese women in Guangzhou protested against the inequitable waiting times. This movement has drifted to Beijing, calling for women's facilities to be proportionally larger to accommodate the longer use times and ameliorate the longer queues of females. Since March 2011, Guangzhou's urban-management commission has ordered that new and newly renovated female public toilets must be 1.5 times the size of their male counterparts. The aforementioned movement is pressing for the regulation to be applied retroactively.\n\n"}
{"id": "3109563", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3109563", "title": "Prerogative", "text": "Prerogative\n\nIn law, a prerogative is an exclusive right given from a government or state and invested in an individual or group, the content of which is separate from the body of rights enjoyed under the general law of the normative state. It was a common facet of feudal law. The word is derived from O.Fr. \"prerogative\" (14c.), M.L. \"prerogativa\" \"special right,\" from L. \"praerogativa\" \"prerogative, previous choice or election,\" originally (with tribus, centuria) \"unit of 100 voters who by lot voted first in the Roman comitia,\" from \"praerogativus\" (adj.) \"chosen to vote first.\"\n\nIn modern popular culture usage, the word prerogative has come to mean the egalitarian condition of the right for anyone's own self-determination, e.g., that it is \"one's prerogative\" to do as they please. The antithesis of the legal historic use of the term, being private exclusion from anyone and determined to the individual from without.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47278005", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47278005", "title": "Roman Legion (1941–43)", "text": "Roman Legion (1941–43)\n\nThe \"Roman Legion\", Vlach \"Roman Legion\" or Vlach Legion (as it is mentioned in some cases in later bibliography) is the name used by the political and paramilitary organization active during the period 1941-1943, in Greece, in the regions of Thessaly and Macedonia, created by Alcibiades Diamandi, a Vlach from Samarina who served as an agent of Italy and Romania.\n\nDiamandi was active in the Greek regions of Thessaly and Macedonia during World War II, supporting the Italian and German occupation forces and promoting the creation of an autonomous Vlach state, envisioned as a \"Principality of the Pindus\", a name also used for a similar attempt in 1917, in which Diamanti had also been involved. Calling himself a leader and \"Representative of the Vlachs of the Lower Balkans\", Diamanti established an organization under the name of \"Roman Legion\" and helped the Italian forces in the collection of weapons that the Greeks had hidden after the surrender of the Greek Army. Diamanti left Greece by the summer of 1942 for Romania and Nicholas Matousis, a Vlach lawyer, already active as second-in-command, replaced him in the organization. Another important figure in the Legion was the Aromanian Vasil Rapotika (Vassilis Rapotikas) who was leading the paramilitary units. After action from several resistance groups in 1942 and the dynamic response of ELAS against members of the Legion, and the withdrawal of Italian forces, the Legion ceased to exist in September 1943, while Matousis fled to Athens.\n\nThe fate of the leading figures and the members of the Legion:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1147410", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1147410", "title": "Ronan Farrow", "text": "Ronan Farrow\n\nSatchel Ronan O'Sullivan Farrow (born December 19, 1987) is an American journalist, lawyer, and former government advisor. He is the son of actress Mia Farrow and filmmaker Woody Allen.\n\nIn late 2017, Farrow's articles in \"The New Yorker\" helped uncover the Harvey Weinstein sexual abuse allegations. For this reporting, \"The New Yorker\" won the 2018 Pulitzer Prize for Public Service, sharing the award with \"The New York Times\". Farrow's subsequent investigations exposed similar allegations against Eric Schneiderman and Les Moonves, which led to the resignations of both in 2018.\n\nFarrow was born in New York City to actress Mia Farrow and filmmaker Woody Allen. His father's family is Jewish, whereas his mother's family is Catholic. His given name honors National Baseball Hall of Fame pitcher Satchel Paige and actress Maureen O'Sullivan, his maternal grandmother. Now known as Ronan, he was given the surname \"Farrow\" to avoid a family with one child named Allen amid Farrows and Previns. In 2013, Mia Farrow raised speculation that singer-actor Frank Sinatra could have been Ronan's biological father.\n\nAs a child, Farrow skipped grades in school and took courses with the Center for Talented Youth. He attended Bard College at Simon's Rock, later transferring to Bard College for a B.A. in philosophy, and becoming the youngest graduate of that institution at age 15. In 2009, he received a J.D. from Yale Law School, and was later admitted to the New York Bar.\n\nFrom 2001 to 2009, he was a UNICEF Spokesperson for Youth, advocating for children and women caught up in the ongoing crisis in Sudan's Darfur region and assisting in fundraising and addressing United Nations affiliated groups in the United States. During this time, he also made joint trips to the Darfur region of Sudan with his mother, actress Mia Farrow, who is a UNICEF Goodwill Ambassador. He subsequently advocated for the protection of Darfuri refugees. Following on his experiences in Sudan, Farrow was affiliated with the Genocide Intervention Network.\n\nDuring his time at Yale Law School, Farrow interned at the law firm Davis Polk & Wardwell and in the office of the chief counsel at the United States House Committee on Foreign Affairs, focusing on international human rights law.\n\nIn 2009, Farrow joined the Obama administration as Special Adviser for Humanitarian and NGO Affairs in the Office of the Special Representative for Afghanistan and Pakistan. He was part of a team of officials recruited by the diplomat Richard Holbrooke, for whom Farrow had previously worked as a speechwriter. For the next two years, Farrow was responsible for \"overseeing the U.S. Government's relationships with civil society and nongovernmental actors\" in Afghanistan and Pakistan.\n\nIn 2011, Farrow was appointed by Secretary of State Hillary Clinton as her Special Adviser for Global Youth Issues and Director of the State Department's Office of Global Youth Issues. The office's creation was the outcome of a multi-year task-force appointed by Clinton to review the United States' economic and social policies on youth, for which Farrow co-chaired the working group with senior United States Agency for International Development staff member David Barth beginning in 2010. Farrow's appointment and the creation of the office were announced by Clinton as part of a refocusing on youth following the Arab Spring revolutions. Farrow was responsible for US youth policy and programming with an aim toward \"empower[ing] young people as economic and civic actors.\" Farrow concluded his term as Special Adviser in 2012, with his policies and programs continuing under his successor.\n\nAfter leaving government, Farrow began a Rhodes Scholarship at Magdalen College, Oxford. He studied toward a Doctor of Philosophy, researching the exploitation of the poor in developing countries, but did not complete his degree.\n\nHe has written essays, op-eds, and other pieces for \"The Guardian\", \"Foreign Policy\" magazine, \"The Atlantic\", \"The Wall Street Journal\", the \"Los Angeles Times\" and other periodicals. In October 2013, Penguin Press acquired Farrow's book, \"Pandora's Box: How American Military Aid Creates America's Enemies\", scheduling it for 2015 publication. From February 2014 through February 2015, Farrow hosted \"Ronan Farrow Daily\", a television news program that aired on MSNBC.\n\nFarrow hosted the investigative segment \"Undercover with Ronan Farrow\" on NBC's \"Today\". Launched in June 2015, the series was billed as providing Farrow's look at the stories \"you don't see in the headlines every day\", often featuring crowd-sourced story selection and covering topics from the labor rights of nail salon workers to mental healthcare issues to sexual assault on campus.\n\nOn October 10, 2017, \"The New Yorker\" published an investigative article by Farrow detailing allegations of sexual misconduct against film producer Harvey Weinstein five days after \"The New York Times\" published the findings of its own investigation into Weinstein. In 2016, NBC had decided against airing Farrow's initial findings. \"The New Yorker\" won the 2018 Pulitzer Prize for Public Service for Farrow's reporting, sharing the award with Jodi Kantor and Meghan Twohey at \"The New York Times\". Farrow was included in the \"Time\" \"100 Most Influential People in the World\" list in 2018.\n\nOn May 7, 2018, \"The New Yorker\" published an article by Farrow and fellow reporter Jane Mayer stating that, during his term in office, New York State Attorney General Eric Schneiderman had physically abused at least four women with whom he had been romantically involved, and that he had habitually abused alcohol and prescription drugs. Within hours of its publication, Schneiderman resigned, effective May 8, 2018. Mayer and Farrow reported that they had confirmed the women's allegations with photographs of contusions and with statements from friends with whom the alleged victims had confided subsequent to the claimed assaults. Though he denied the allegations, Schneiderman stated that he resigned because they \"effectively prevent me from leading the office's work\". Governor Andrew Cuomo assigned a special prosecutor to investigate the filing of possible criminal charges against Schneiderman.\n\nOn July 27, 2018, \"The New Yorker\" published an article by Farrow stating that six women had accused CBS CEO Leslie Moonves of harassment and intimidation, and that dozens more described abuse at his company.\n\nOn August 23, 2018, \"The New Yorker\" published an article by Adam Entous and Farrow stating that top aides of the Trump White House circulated a conspiracy memo entitled \"The Echo Chamber\" about Obama aides.\n\nOn September 14, 2018, Farrow and Jane Mayer published information pertaining to an allegation of sexual assault by United States Supreme Court nominee, Brett Kavanaugh.\n\nFarrow voiced minor characters in the English-language versions of two Japanese animated films, \"From Up on Poppy Hill\" (2011) and \"The Wind Rises\" (2013).\n\nIn 2008, Farrow was awarded Refugees International's McCall-Pierpaoli Humanitarian Award for \"extraordinary service to refugees and displaced people\". In 2009, Farrow was named \"New York\" magazine's \"New Activist\" of the year and included on its list of individuals \"on the verge of changing their worlds\". In 2011, \"Harper's Bazaar\" listed him as an \"up-and-coming politician\". In 2012, he was ranked number one in \"Law and Policy\" on \"Forbes\" magazine's \"30 Under 30\" Most Influential People. He was also awarded an honorary doctorate by Dominican University of California in 2012.\n\nIn its 2013 retrospective of men born in its 80 years of publication, \"Esquire\" magazine named him the man of the year of his birth.\n\nIn February 2014, Farrow received the third annual Cronkite Award for \"Excellence in Exploration and Journalism\" from Reach the World, in recognition of his work since 2001, including his being a UNICEF Spokesperson for Youth in 2001. Some media outlets noted that the award came three days after \"Ronan Farrow Daily\" began airing and suggested that the award was therefore not justified.\n\nFarrow has identified as part of the LGBT community. He was recognized by the Point Foundation in 2018. His partner is podcast host and former presidential speech writer Jon Lovett. The couple has been together since 2011.\n\nFarrow is estranged from his father, Woody Allen. Farrow later commented, \"He's my father married to my sister. That makes me his son and his brother-in-law. That is such a moral transgression.\"\n\nIn a 2013 interview with \"Vanity Fair\", Mia Farrow stated that Ronan could \"possibly\" be the biological child of Frank Sinatra, with whom she claimed to have \"never really split up\". In a 2015 \"CBS Sunday Morning\" interview, Sinatra's daughter Nancy dismissed the idea that her father is also the biological father of Ronan Farrow, calling it \"nonsense.\" She said that her children were affected by the rumor because they were being questioned about it. \"I was kind of cranky with Mia for even saying 'possibly',\" she added. \"I was cranky with her for saying that because she knew better, you know, she really did. But she was making a joke! And it was taken very serious and was just silly, stupid.\"\n\nDNA paternity testing to determine Farrow's father is not known to have occurred. Farrow has refused to discuss DNA, and stated that despite their estrangement, \"Woody Allen, legally, ethically, personally was absolutely a father in our family.\" In a 2018 \"New York\" magazine article, Woody Allen said that Farrow may indeed be Sinatra's son: \"In my opinion, he's my child … I think he is, but I wouldn't bet my life on it. I paid for child support for him for his whole childhood, and I don't think that's very fair if he's not mine.\"\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14611785", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14611785", "title": "Shan State Army - South", "text": "Shan State Army - South\n\nThe Shan State Army - South (; abbreviated SSA-S), also known simply as the Shan State Army, is the armed wing of the Restoration Council of Shan State (RCSS) and one of the largest insurgent groups in Myanmar (Burma). The SSA-S was led by Lieutenant General Yawd Serk until his resignation on 3 February 2014. Yawd Serk was reelected chairman of the RCSS shortly after his resignation and has remained chairman since.\n\nOn 26 January 1996, Lieutenant General Yawd Serk of the Shan United Revolutionary Army (SURA) led 800 soldiers under his command to central Shan State and established the Shan State Army - South, after he refused to surrender to government forces with fellow commander Khun Sa. He then recruited roughly a thousand more soldiers before returning to southern Shan State and establishing the group's headquarter, Loi Tai Leng.\n\nOn 27 May 2000, the SSA-S formed the Restoration Council of Shan State (RCSS) as its political wing, and elected eleven Central Executive Committee members to lead the political front. Yawd Serk was elected chairman of the RCSS, and would remain in office until his resignation on 3 February 2014.\n\nOn 21 May 2005, the SSA-S pledged to work with the Shan State National Army (SSNA) against the then ruling military junta to achieve independence for Shan State. Later that year, the SSNA agreed to merge with the SSA-S.\n\nIn December 2008, the Shan State Congress (SSC) was formed in Loi Tai Leng under the aegis of Yawd Serk, which would exist until 2010. Its members included groups such as the Lahu Democratic Union (LDU), the Pa-O National Liberation Organisation (PNLO), the Restoration Council of Shan State, Tai Coordination Committee (TCC) and the Wa National Organisation (WNO).\n\nPrior to the establishment of the SSC, the SSA-S maintained a six-member alliance with the Arakan Liberation Party (ALP), the Chin National Front (CNF), the Kachin Independence Organisation (KIO), the Karen National Union (KNU) and the Karenni National Progressive Party (KNPP); however, the alliance remained dormant for several years, prompting Yawd Serk to express his desire to revive the alliance in anticipation for the 2010 general election.\n\nOn 16 January 2012, the government and the SSA-S signed a mutual agreement with the following 11 points:\n\nThe SSA-South has main 5 bases established across the Myanmar-Thailand border:\n\n\nFacebook profiles:\nOther:\n"}
{"id": "4102905", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4102905", "title": "South African general election, 1948", "text": "South African general election, 1948\n\nThe parliamentary election in South Africa on 26 May 1948 represented a turning point in the country's history. The United Party, which had led the government since its foundation in 1933, and its leader, incumbent Prime Minister Jan Smuts, were ousted by the Reunited National Party (\"Herenigde Nasionale Party\" in Afrikaans), led by Daniel François Malan, a Dutch Reformed cleric.\n\nDuring the election battle, both the UP and the NP formed coalitions with smaller parties. The UP was aligned with the left-leaning Labour Party, while the Afrikaner Party sought to advance Afrikaner rights by allying with the HNP. By legislation relating to franchise requirements, very few people of Coloured and Asian descent were able to vote in this election; Africans had been banned altogether since the late 1930s, with the limited number of Africans meeting electoral qualifications voting for four \"own\" white MPs separately.\n\nThe HNP, realising that many White South Africans felt threatened by black political aspirations, pledged to implement a policy of strict racial segregation in all spheres of living. The Nationalists labelled this new system of social organisation \"apartheid\" (\"apartness\" or \"separation\"), the name by which it became universally known. The HNP also took advantage of white fear of black-on-white crime, and the HNP promised whites safety and security from black-on-white crime and violence.\n\nIn contrast to the HNP's consistent, straightforward platform, the UP supported vague notions of slowly integrating the different racial groups within South Africa. Furthermore, white dissatisfaction with domestic and economic problems in South Africa after World War II, the HNP's superior organisation, and electoral gerrymandering, all proved to be significant challenges to the UP campaign.\n\nThe election marked the onset of 46 years of (H)NP rule in South Africa.\n\nTogether, the HNP and the Afrikaner Party won 79 seats in the House of Assembly against a combined total of 74 won by the UP and the Labour Party. By a quirk of the First Past the Post system the NP had won more seats, even though the UP had received over eleven percent more votes. The Nationalist coalition subsequently formed a new government and ushered in the era of formal, legally binding apartheid. In 1951, the HNP and the Afrikaner Party merged, returning to the name National Party (NP). \n\nOne of the central issues facing the white electorate in the 1948 election was that of race. The United Party (UP) and the National Party (NP) presented voters with differing answers to questions relating to racial integration in South Africa. Smuts and his followers were in favour of a pragmatic approach, arguing that racial integration was inevitable and that the government should thus relax regulations which sought to prevent black people from moving into urban areas. Whilst still seeking to maintain white dominance, the UP argued in favour of gradually reforming the political system so that black South Africans could eventually, at some unspecified point in the future, exercise some sort of power in a racially integrated South Africa. In contrast to this seemingly vague ideology, the NP advanced the notion of further strictly enforced segregation between races and the total disempowerment of black South Africans. Rural to urban movement by blacks was to be discouraged. The UP position was supported by the Fagan Commission while the Sauer Commission informed the NP's stance.\n\nThe putative policy of apartheid proposed by the NP served the economic interests of certain groups of white South Africans. Farmers from the northern portions of the country relied on cheap black labour to maximise profits while working class whites living in urban areas feared the employment competition that would follow an urban influx of black South Africans. Many commercial and financial Afrikaner interests based on agriculture saw the value of apartheid in promoting growth in this sector. The UP failed to realise the enormous economic benefits of apartheid to these large and influential groups and did not prioritise segregation as much as the NP.\n\nAs regards election tactics, the NP was extremely adroit at exploiting white fears while campaigning in the 1948 election. Because the UP had seemed to take a fairly lukewarm stance towards both integration and segregation, the NP was able to argue that a victory for the UP would ultimately lead to a black government in South Africa. NP propaganda linked black political power to Communism, an anathema to many white South Africans at the time. Slogans such as \"Swart Gevaar\" (\"Black Peril\"), \"Rooi Gevaar\" (\"Red Peril\"), \"Die kaffer op sy plek\" (\"The Kaffir in his place\"), and \"Die koelies uit die land\" (\"The coolies out of the country\") played upon and amplified white anxieties. Much was made of the fact that Smuts had developed a good working relationship with Joseph Stalin during World War II, when South Africa and the USSR were allies in the fight against Nazi Germany. Smuts had once remarked that he \"doffs his cap to Stalin\" and the NP presented this remark as proof of Smuts’s latent Communist tendencies.\n\nThe Smuts government's controversial immigration programme served to further inflame Afrikaner disquiet. Under this programme, numerous British immigrants had moved to South Africa and were perceived to have taken homes and employment away from (white) South African citizens. Moreover, it was claimed that the intention behind such plans was to swamp the Afrikaners, who had a higher birth rate than the British diaspora, with British immigrants so that Afrikaners would be outnumbered at the polls in future elections.\n\nIn preparation for the 1948 election, the NP moderated its stance on republicanism. Because of the immense and abiding national trauma caused by the Anglo-Boer War, transforming South Africa into a republic and dissolving all ties between South Africa and the United Kingdom had been an important mission for earlier incarnations of the NP. English speaking South Africans tended to favour a close relationship with the UK, and so the republican project became a source of conflict between the two largest white groups in South Africa. A staunchly pro-republic stance alienated moderate Afrikaners who had supported South Africa's participation in World War II and wished to achieve reconciliation between their own people and English speakers. When the NP agreed to compromise its fiercely republican standpoint, conceding that South Africa should remain a Dominion in the Commonwealth, many Afrikaner UP supporters switched allegiance.\n\nDemarcation of electoral district boundaries favoured the NP. Most of the 70 seats won by the National Party during the 1948 election were in rural areas, whereas most of the 65 seats won by the United Party were in the urban areas. According to the Constitution that South Africa had at the time, the constituencies in the rural areas were smaller than those in urban areas. This meant that there were more rural constituencies than urban ones. This was to the benefit of the National Party, since it tended to do well in rural areas in terms of votes. Despite winning 140,000 fewer votes than the UP, the NP/AP coalition gained a plurality of seats in Parliament. It has been calculated that if rural and urban votes had been of equal value, the UP would have won 80 seats, the NP/AP 60 seats, and other parties the remaining seats, thus giving the UP a majority.\n\nSmuts and his cabinet were blamed for many of the hardships that occurred as a result of South Africa's participation in World War II. During the war petrol was rationed by means of coupons, and bakeries were ordered not to bake white bread so as to conserve wheat. After the war some of these measures continued, as South Africa exported food and other necessaries to Britain and the Netherlands. South Africa even provided Britain with a loan of 4 million ounces of gold. These measures caused local shortages of meat and the unavailability of white bread. The Smuts government was blamed for this, as well as for the rate of inflation and the government's dismal housing record. All these factors provided ammunition for the NP.\n\nThe UP at the time has been characterised as cumbersome and lacking vigour while the NP displayed energy and superior organisational skills. World War II had a bonding effect on the UP and white South Africans generally. Once this external uniting force fell away, Smuts lost a great deal of control over the UP as more and more voters considered alternatives to his tired regime; humiliatingly, the Prime Minister lost his parliamentary seat (Standerton) to an NP challenger. As can be seen from the final tally of seats, Smuts and his party proved unable to counter the many grievances raised by the NP in an effective way, and this inability led to a narrow NP victory.\n\nAfter the 1948 election, the ruling coalition succeeded in fully enfranchising the mostly Afrikaans- and German-speaking voters in South West Africa, later known as Namibia upon independence in 1990; the result being that this gave the National Party more or less six reliable votes in parliament.\n"}
{"id": "26298897", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26298897", "title": "Soviet Jewry Movement", "text": "Soviet Jewry Movement\n\nThe Soviet Jewry movement was an international human rights campaign that advocated for the right of Jews in the Soviet Union to emigrate.\n\nThe earliest organized effort was the Cleveland Council on Soviet Anti-Semitism, a grassroots organization that brought attention to the plight of Soviet Jews from 1963 until 1983. It began as a study group led by three of the founding members of Beth Israel - The West Temple in 1963: Louis Rosenblum, Herbert Caron, and Abe Silverstein. Though the council included prominent rabbis, pastors, priests, and city officials, many initial council members were fellow congregants. As the first such group in the world, this organization spawned other local councils and a national organization. Between 1964-69, the Cleveland council developed educational tools, such as organizational handbooks for other communities, the newsletter Spotlight, and media presentations. They also devised protest strategies that became integral to the movement to free Soviet Jewry. One of the council's most successful activities was the People-to-People program of the late 1960s, which represented 50,000 members.\n\nAlthough not officially sponsored by Beth Israel – The West Temple, the temple provided office space to the council from 1964–78, and the council periodically reported to the congregation's Social Action Committee. Although the Cleveland council was still active in 1985, by the late 1970s the Jewish Community Federation had taken over the major local organizing effort for Soviet Jewry. By 1993, the Cleveland Council on Soviet Anti-Semitism no longer needed to exist, as it had accomplished its mission, and the Soviet Union had also ceased to exist.\n\nLater, Student Struggle for Soviet Jewry, founded by Jacob Birnbaum at Yeshiva University in 1964. In 1969, the Jewish Defense League began a series of protests and vigils while employing militant activism in order to publicize the persecution of Soviet Jewry. The Union of Councils for Soviet Jews was formed in 1970 as an umbrella organization of all groups working to win the right to emigrate for oppressed Jewish citizens of the Soviet Union.\n\nThe movement was represented in Israel by Nativ, a clandestine agency that sought to publicize the cause of Soviet Jewry and encourage their emigration to Israel.\n\nThroughout the timeline of the movement to free Jews from the USSR -- 1964 - 1991 -- tensions existed between the Jewish Establishment groups, represented by the umbrella organization the American Jewish Conference on Soviet Jewry and its successor the National Conference on Soviet Jewry. Differences revolved around policy and action. Behind the scenes, the clandestine Israeli Soviet Jewry office, Nativ (known as the Lishka), supported the ACSJ and NCSJ, which it had helped create. Such conflicts between Establishment and nascent, independent groups -- such as between the NAACP and SNCC in the civil rights movement -- are not new.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1082228", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1082228", "title": "Spartakiad", "text": "Spartakiad\n\nThe Spartakiad (or Spartakiade) was an international sports event that was sponsored by the Soviet Union. Five international Spartakiades were held from 1928 to 1937. Later Spartakiads were organized as national sport events of the Eastern Bloc countries. The games were organised by Red Sport International.\n\nThe Soviet Union attempted to use Spartakiads to both oppose and supplement the Olympics. (In Russian, there is a certain parallelism in the names: \"Spartakiada\" and \"Olimpiada\".) The name, derived from the name of the slave rebel leader, Spartacus, was intended to symbolize proletarian internationalism because Spartacus' revolt united slaves from diverse ethnic backgrounds within the Roman Empire. As a Classical figure, Spartacus also stood directly in contrast to the aristocratic nature of the Ancient Olympic Games on which the modern \"capitalist\" Olympics were based. The first Winter Spartakiad was held in February 1928 in Oslo, and the first Summer Spartakiad was held in August 1928 in Moscow.\n\nThe first Spartakiads in the USSR took place in 1923 within formations of the Red Army and the Spartak Youth Physical Culture organization in Petrograd. The Moscow Spartakiad in 1928 was also known as the All-Union Spartakiad, while it involved participation of countries (17) outside of the Soviet Union. From the start of the 1930s in the Soviet Union, spartakiads of trade unions and the Dynamo physical culture sports society took place. In the 1950s, spartakiads of the Peoples of the USSR, DOSAAF of the USSR, all-Union Spartakiads of students, international Spartakiads of friendly armies of socialist and developing countries, and others were introduced.\n\nThe First All-Ukrainian Spartakiad took place in Kharkiv on 9–29 September 1923.\n\n\n\nIn 1952 the Soviet Union decided to join the Olympic movement, and international Spartakiads ceased. However, the term persisted for internal sports events in the Soviet Union of different levels, from local up to the Spartakiad of the Peoples of the USSR (, Spartakiada narodov SSSR). The latter event was held twice in four years: Winter Spartakiad and Summer Spartakiad, with international participation.\n\nThe first Soviet Spartakiad was held in 1956. These events were of huge importance for Soviet sports. Everyone could participate in them – from ordinary people to top-level athletes. The number of participants, for example, in the 6th Summer Spartakiad of the Peoples of the USSR, was 90 million people (twice the number of athletes in the USSR in that time), including 8,300 Masters of Sports of the USSR. And in the 3rd Winter Spartakiad of the Peoples of the USSR 20 million people took part, including some 1,000 Masters of Sports of the USSR. However, these numbers have been frequently called into question due to the low reliability and ideological bias of the Soviet Encyclopedia. The Winter and Summer Spartakiads of the Peoples of the USSR were each commemorated on a series of postage stamps, released in millions of copies (an example of such a stamp is pictured). Until 1975 all summer finals were held in Moscow, later in other cities throughout the Union. The winter editions final were often held in Sverdlovsk (present-day Yekaterinburg).\n\n\nThere was also a \"Youth Spartakiad\", and a \"Spartakiad of Trade Unions\" (). The latter survived in a number of post Soviet republics, such as Russia, Belarus, Ukraine, and Uzbekistan.\n\nThe name Spartakiáda was also used for a mass gymnastics display , , which was held every five years at the Strahov Stadium in Prague, Czechoslovakia, when the country was under communist rule. The first event of this name was held, however, already in 1921, and its initiator is credited as the inventor of the name.\n\nSix similar events were held in Albania during communist rule as well (in 1959, 1969, 1974, 1979, 1984, and 1989).\n\nIn 1984, the Soviet Union organised the Friendship Games, aimed at countries which boycotted the 1984 Summer Olympics.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34149638", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34149638", "title": "The Family Leader", "text": "The Family Leader\n\nThe Family Leader (stylized The FAMiLY LEADER) is an American social conservative political organization in Iowa. The Family Leader is an umbrella group comprising The Family Leader Foundation, Marriage Matters, Iowa Family PAC, and Iowans for Freedom. The Family Leader is loosely affiliated with the national social conservative organization Focus on the Family. According to its website, The Family Leader \"provides a consistent, courageous voice in the churches, in the legislature, in the media, in the courtroom, in the public square…always standing for God’s truth.\"\n\n\nThrough the new group, the organization planned to play a more influential role in the 2012 Iowa caucus campaigns than in 2008, including offering an endorsement for the first time.\n\nIn mid-2011, The Family Leader gained national recognition for its pledge, \"The Marriage Vow: A Declaration of Dependence upon MARRIAGE and FAMILY\", which it asked 2012 presidential hopefuls to sign. Vander Plaats himself also gained recognition, being referred to in one news post as a \"kingmaker.\" \"The Hill\" claimed Vander Plaats' endorsement as one of the top 10 coveted endorsements for Republicans running for president.\n\nThough the pledge was signed very quickly by candidate Michele Bachmann, others were not so quick to sign or support it. Former Iowa State Senator Jeff Angelo, a Republican, said: \"This pledge is an attempt to shut down dialogue between voters and the people vying to represent them.\". Presidential hopeful Mitt Romney called the pledge \"undignified and inappropriate.\" Romney's campaign later clarified that he would not sign because language in the pledge made the assertion that African American children born into slavery in 1860 were better off than children raised today. He was not the only one to take issue with this language. The \"slavery portion\" of the pledge was soon removed.\n\nAfter the controversies with the pledge, House Speaker Pro-Tem Jeff Kaufmann, said the pledge has \"ridiculous implications,\" questioned Vander Plaats' integrity, and said that his \"political credibility is waning to the point of no impact.\"\n\nIn November and December 2011, the organization \"agonized\" over whether to make an endorsement and who to endorse. After removing Herman Cain, Jon Huntsman, Ron Paul, and Mitt Romney from consideration, the seven-member board of directors of the organization could not decide on one candidate among Newt Gingrich, Michele Bachmann, Rick Santorum, and Rick Perry. The organization announced on December 20, 2011 that it would officially stay neutral and instead allow board members to make their own endorsements; Vander Plaats and Hurley endorsed Santorum.\n\n"}
{"id": "27374762", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27374762", "title": "Tocsearch", "text": "Tocsearch\n\nThe TOC search (Terrorist and Organized Criminal Search) is a dynamic data base which offers comprehensive information on global terrorist network and help researchers, analysts, students and others working to prevent terrorism. It is result of a common project realized by the Faculty of Security Studies and Faculty of Mathematics, University of Belgrade, which had started in December 2007. The scope of the TOC search data base is to provide in-depth research and analysis on terrorist incidents, terrorist groups, organizations, their members, leaders and also links and relations between the individuals and groups. The idea is to integrate data from variety of sources, including foreign and domestic news, professional security journals, reports and databases, academic works.\n\nThe starting point in the TOC searchearch project was the data presented on the map Al-Qaeda Network: Principals, Supporters, Selected Cells and Significant Activities (1992–2004). The map was prepared by J. L. Boesen, Raytheon Genesis Facility Institute Reston (2004), using the data derived from open sources. The data presented in the map were classified and stored in order to create backbone of the base.\n\nThe data in the base are classified in seven entities: individuals, groups, organizations, supporters, actions, links and GMC reports. The simple and advanced search features are implemented in the TOC search. The simple search enables the researcher to explore the chosen entity by given keyword or part of an entity name. The advanced search feature is implemented for individuals, groups, organizations, supporters and actions. It is performed by using different properties: alias, belongs to organization, belongs to group, leader, religion, in relation with, type or actors of the attack, etc. All search results are presented together with the basic information on the found subjects, enabling in-depth search to be performed as well. An important feature of the TOC search is the fact that links between the mentioned terrorist-related categories are stored and classified in the data base. The results of both simple and advance search provide information whether there is a link (active or inactive) from a particular item. The in-depth search feature gives more information on the found link. This is a unique feature of the TOC search which no other terrorist database has had up to this point.\n\nThe incoming reports are sorted and stored by date in GMC section of the TOC search database. The George Marshall Center provided us with their GMC reports archive and they keep sending us the daily PTSS and other GMC reports In this way, a constant refreshment of the base with up-to-date information has been provided. The TOC search simple search feature through GMC reports is implemented, which enables the exploration of GMC section by using keywords.\n\nAt each moment of using TOC search, one can immediately start a new search or switch to advanced search tool. While exploring the data base, a researcher usually performs multiple search. In order to help the user of the TOC search, we have implemented the “select tool”. This tool enables the user to put all the important results obtained from different search. In this way, all the data that are essential in the research are available during the further TOC search exploration. The data in the “selection” tool are easily added or removed. By using option “Feedback” the user may send a message on TOC search administrator on different topics (site bugs, error data, comments, suggestions, etc. )\n\nOne of the key advantages of the TOC search is the fact that its basic data source is verified information from the reports prepared and provided by George C Marshall European Center for Security Studies. The Reports are produced by special newsletter service supporting the counterterrorism course at The George C. Marshall European Center for Security Studies, and it is created for educational purposes only. The newsletter is produced from the open-source media reports by GMC postgraduate students and verified by senior experts and counter terrorism officers. This is the main reason why PTSS has been chosen as the main data source for TOC search. Besides PTSS Reports, GMC also publishes several other reports based on different open source data, such as: Department of Homeland Security Report (DHS), Terrorism Open Source Intelligence Report (TOSIR), Insurgency Literature Review (ILR) and Terrorism Literature Report (TLR).\n\nThe information in the TOC search database has been constantly updated from the GMC reports and other publicly available, open-source materials. These include electronic news archives, existing data sets, secondary source materials such as books and journals, and legal documents. TOC search team performs constant verification of the data by comparing it with other sources and by internal checking of the data and related records.\n\nIt is also important to provide the protection of data stored in the base. In this scope, two levels of data access are implemented in the TOC search. The first level is named “blue key” and it is available for students and researchers in academic institutions and research centers. The “blue key” enables the access to all open-source data stored in the base. The second level of data access, named “red key” is reserved for legal authorities, state institutions, and state government. The “red key” opens the part of the TOC search with confidential data. The owner of the “red key” also has access to the open source data, as the “blue key” owner. Only state institutions and agencies which have a contract with TOC search have an access to the red key data and they are red key members.\n\nIn the next phase of the TOC search project, several analytical features are to be incorporated in the database. Analytical tools will provide statistical information analysis of the global terrorist network. The researcher will be able to analyze terrorism trends over time and to compare different aspects of terrorism between countries, regions and terrorist groups (for example: type of terrorist attacks, level of organization, tactics, communication level, size of a terrorist group, age or race of its members, and many others). The results of statistical analysis will be presented graphically in various charts, showing the dependencies and/or the comparisons of the chosen aspects. The chart type can also be chosen by the user.\n\nAn analytical-purpose system will be used to understand the structure of different terrorist organizations with respect to particular attack types or regions of their activity. By using this system, the intelligence analysts will be able to develop hypotheses and then validate them (or not) against the data in the TOC search information space. In this way, it will be possible to provide certain predictions of international terrorism trends, seasonality, and periodicity of terrorist events.\n\nIn the future phase of the TOC searchearch project, we also plan to implement the image search feature. This tool will enable to search the image data base for related photographs of individuals or terrorist attacks by using keywords (individual’s name, group/organization name, or the part of the name, specific terrorist incident, date, etc.).\n\nRegarding the practical aspects of the TOC search database, the TOC search data were primarily collected by academic groups. This means that TOC search team was under no political or government pressure in terms of how to collect the data or how to classify them. Although the TOC search is still in its construction phase, it has already been used in the purpose of Security of the Olympic Games in Beijing 2008, and it is currently being used in the purpose of Security of the World Championship in Football 2010.\n\n"}
{"id": "28831284", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28831284", "title": "Voluntary association", "text": "Voluntary association\n\nA voluntary group or union (also sometimes called a voluntary organization, common-interest association, association, or society) is a group of individuals who enter into an agreement, usually as volunteers, to form a body (or organization) to accomplish a purpose. Common examples include trade associations, trade unions, learned societies, professional associations, and environmental groups.\n\nMembership is not necessarily voluntary: in order for particular associations to function correctly they might need to be mandatory or at least strongly encouraged, as is common with many teachers unions in the US. Because of this, some people use the term common-interest association to describe groups which form out of a common interest, although this term is not widely used or understood.\n\nVoluntary associations may be incorporated or unincorporated; for example, in the US, unions gained additional powers by incorporating. In the UK, the terms Voluntary Association or Voluntary Organisation cover every type of group from a small local Residents' Association to large Associations (often Registered Charities) with multimillion-pound turnover that run large-scale business operations (often providing some kind of public service as subcontractors to government departments or local authorities).\n\nIn many jurisdictions no formalities are necessary to start an association. In some jurisdictions, there is a minimum for the number of persons starting an association.\n\nSome jurisdictions require that the association register with the police or other official body to inform the public of the association's existence. This could be a tool of political control or intimidation, and also a way of protecting the economy from fraud.\n\nIn many such jurisdictions, only a registered association (or in the UK an incorporated body) is a juristic person whose members are not responsible for the financial acts of the association. Any group of persons may, of course, work as an informal association, but in such cases, each person making a transaction in the name of the association takes responsibility for that transaction, just as if it were that individual's personal transaction.\n\nThere are many countries where the formation of truly independent Voluntary Associations is effectively proscribed by law or where they are theoretically legally permitted, but in practice are persecuted; for example, where membership brings unwelcome attention from police or other state agencies.\n\nVoluntary groups are a broad and original form of nonprofit organizations, and have existed since ancient history. In Ancient Greece, for example, there were various organizations ranging from elite clubs of wealthy men (\"hetaireiai\") to private religious or professional associations.\n\nIn preindustrial societies, governmental administrative duties were often handled by voluntary associations such as guilds. In medieval Europe, guilds often controlled towns. Merchant guilds enforced contracts through embargoes and sanctions on their members, and also adjudicated disputes. However, by the 1800s, merchant guilds had largely disappeared. Economic historians have debated the precise role that merchant guilds played in premodern society and economic growth.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, craft guilds were more successful than merchant guilds and formed livery companies which exerted significant influence on society.\n\nA standard definition of an unincorporated association was given by Lord Justice Lawton in the English trust law case \"Conservative and Unionist Central Office v Burrell\" (1981):\n\nIn most countries, an unincorporated association does not have separate legal personality, and few members of the association usually enjoy limited liability. However, in some countries they are treated as having separate legal personality for tax purposes. However, because of their lack of legal personality, legacies to unincorporated associations are sometimes subject to general common law prohibitions against purpose trusts.\n\nAssociations that are organized for profit or financial gain are usually called partnerships. A special kind of partnership is a co-operative which is usually founded on one person—one vote principle and distributes its profits according to the amount of goods produced or bought by the members. Associations may take the form of a non-profit organization or they may be not-for-profit corporations; this does not mean that the association cannot make benefits from its activity, but all the benefits must be reinvested. Most associations have some kind of document or documents that regulate the way in which the body meets and operates. Such an instrument is often called the organization's bylaws, constitution, regulations, or agreement of association.\n\nUnder English law, an unincorporated association consists of two or more members bound by the rules of a society which has at some point in time, been founded.\n\nSeveral theories have been proposed as to the way that such associations hold rights. A transfer may be considered to have been made to the association's members directly as joint tenants or tenants in common. Alternatively, the funds transferred may be considered to have been under the terms of a private purpose trust. Many purpose trusts fail for want of a beneficiary and this may therefore may result in the gift failing. However, some purpose trusts are valid, and, accordingly, some cases have decided that the rights associated with unincorporated associations are held on this basis. The dominant theory, however, is that the rights are transferred to the members or officers absolutely, perhaps on trust for the members, but are importantly bound by contracts \"inter se\".\n\nAccordingly, on dissolution, the distribution of these rights depends on how they were held. A purpose trust may by its nature survive the dissolution of the association, or it may not. If it fails as a result of the dissolution, then the rights will be held on resulting trust for the contributors, unless they can be shown to have renounced their right to such a trust in their favour. If the rights are held subject to contract, then they will be divided among the surviving membership upon dissolution, according to the terms of the contracts \"inter se\" or an implied term according to contribution. If, as a result of this contract or statute, no member can claim, the rights will pass to the Crown as \"bona vacantia\". This conclusion has also been suggested where the association dissolves because only one member remains, although this has been doubted by some commentators who believe the last members should be entitled to the rights.\n\nScottish law on unincorporated associations is essentially the same as English law.\n\nEach state sets its own laws as to what constitutes an unincorporated association and how it is to be treated under the laws. In the United States, voluntary associations which were incorporated were \"pre-eminent\" in collective action.\n\nIn most Australian states and territories, a similar set of laws allows not-for-profit associations to become legal entities with a limit to the liability of their members. An example of such a law, the Associations Incorporation Act that is in force in South Australia, allows for the creation of a legal entity able to buy and sell land and in general, enter into legally binding contracts. Many clubs and societies begin life as an unincorporated body and seek to attain incorporated status to protect its members from legal liability and in many cases to seek government financial assistance only available to an incorporated body. Clubs and societies wishing to incorporate must meet the provisions of the relevant state act and lodge their constitution with the corresponding state government authority.\n\nCertain civil-law systems classify an association as a special form of contractual relationship.\n\nUnder the Quebec Civil Code an association is categorized as a type of statutory specific contract set forth in a constitution. An association can become incorporated with its own legal identity so that it may, e.g., open a bank account, enter into contracts (rent real estate, hire employees, take out an insurance policy), or sue or be sued.\n\nIn France, all voluntary associations are non-profit. They may count as unincorporated (\"association non-déclarée\") or incorporated (\"association déclarée\"), and are created in terms of and governed by the Waldeck-Rousseau Act 1901. This is why \"\" is subjoined to their name, except in Alsace-Moselle area which is governed by local law in this regard (the area was German in 1901) and are therefore called \"\".. If the association responding to defined criteria, like social or medical help for example, they can be declared \"public utility association\" (\"association d'utilité publique\") by French authorities. Associations act 1901 let an important large of freedom about internal operation, like direction or authorized members for example.\n\nThe German Civil Code sets out different rights and rules for an unincorporated association (\"nicht eingetragener Verein\") with legal identity (\"Vereine\", art. 21-79 BGB) versus an incorporated association (\"eingetragener Verein\") with full legal personality, which the law treats as partnerships (\"Gesellschaften\", art. 705-740 BGB). Associations can be for-profit (\"wirtschaftlicher Verein\"), non-for-profit (\"Idealverein\"), or public (\"gemeinnütziger Verein\").\n\nIn Israel, many non-profit organizations (NPOs) and non-governmental organizations (NGOs) are established as registered nonprofit associations (Hebrew \"amutah,\" plural \"amutot\") (some are established as public benefit companies (Hebrew \"Chevrah LeTo’elet Hatzibur\") not to be confused with public benefit corporations). ‘‘Amutot’’ are regulated by the Associations Law, 1980. An \"amutah\" is a body corporate, though not a company. The \"amutah\" is successor to the Ottoman Society which predated the State of Israel, and was established by the now-superseded Ottoman Societies Law of 1909, based on the French law of 1901. An \"amutah\" must register with the \"Rasham Ha’amutot\" ('Registrar of Amutot'), under the purview of the \"Rashot Hata’agidim\" ('Corporations Authority') of the Ministry of Justice.\n\nThe freedom of association stands in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights: \nArticle 11 of the European Convention on Human Rights also protects the right to freedom of assembly and association.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36625111", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36625111", "title": "Wallace neutrality", "text": "Wallace neutrality\n\nThe Wallace neutrality (also known as Wallace Irrelevance Proposition,\nModigliani–Miller theorem for government finance), is an economics proposition asserting that\nin certain environment, holding fiscal policy constant, alternative paths of the government financial policies have no effect on the sequences for the price level and for real allocations in the economy. The proposition rests upon a no arbitrage argument similar to that of the Modigliani–Miller theorem. Policy implication is that, whenever Wallace neutrality applies, conventional open-market purchases of securities by the central bank won't be an effective monetary policy.\n\nThe concept of Wallace neutrality was first introduced by Neil Wallace (Wallace (1981)). However the irrelevance proposition proved by Wallace is restricted to a simple environment, leaving the question open of how broad the class of environments is in which the conclusion holds. A series of similar results, under different environments, were obtained in the 1980s. However, these results remain in contexts where money is not dominated as a rate of return.\nSargent and Smith (1987) studied an environment and a structure of restrictions on trades in which government-issued currency is dominated as a rate of return and do conclude that open market operations are irrelevant.\n\nEarly analysis is often supposed to be of little practical relevance for actual monetary policy because of the fact that money being dominated as a rate of return by short-term Treasury securities is routinely observed, which invalidates Wallace's result. However, as noted in Eggertsson and Woodford (2003), in the case of open-market operations that are conducted at\nthe zero bound, the liquidity services provided by money balances at the margin have fallen to zero, so that an analysis of the kind proposed by Wallace is still correct. They also applied the Wallace irrelevance proposition to government purchases of\nlong term debt in a representative-household model.\n\nCúrdia and Woodford (2011)\nargued that only two assumptions are needed for Wallace neutrality to hold\nThey also found that the Wallace irrelevance proposition weakly holds under certain relaxed assumptions.\n\nThere are also recent works which invalidate Wallace irrelevance based on different relaxed assumptions and novel mechanisms. For example, in Andrew Nowobilski's (2012) paper,\nopen market operations powerfully influence economic outcomes due to the introduction of a financial sector engaging in liquidity transformation. In Stefan Homburg's (2015) superneutrality article, open market operations leave real variables unaffected but influence nominal variables in a non-trivial fashion.\n\n\n\n"}
