{"id": "2207", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2207", "title": "Angels in art", "text": "Angels in art\n\nAngels have appeared in works of art since early Christian art, and they have been a popular subject for Byzantine and European paintings and sculpture.\n\nAngels are usually intended, in both Christian and Islamic art, to be beautiful, though several depictions go for more awesome/frightening attributes, notably in the depiction of the living creatures (which have beastial characteristics), ophanim (which are unanthropomorphic wheels) and cherubim (which have mosaic features); As a matter of theology, they are spiritual beings who do not eat or excrete and are genderless. Many angels in art may appear to the modern eye to be gendered as either male or female by their dress or actions, but until the 19th century, even the most female looking will normally lack breasts, and the figures should normally be considered as genderless. In 19th-century art, especially funerary art, this traditional convention is sometimes abandoned.\n\nSpecific ideas regarding how to portray angels began to develop in the early Church. Since angels are defined as pure spirits,\n\nThe earliest known Christian image of an angel, in the \"Cubicolo dell'Annunziazione\" in the Catacomb of Priscilla, which is dated to the middle of the third century, is a depiction of the Annunciation in which Gabriel is portrayed without wings. Representations of angels on sarcophagi and on objects such as lamps and reliquaries of that period also show them without wings, as for example the angel in the \"Sacrifice of Isaac\" scene in the Sarcophagus of Junius Bassus.\n\nIn a third-century fresco of the Hebrew children in the furnace, in the cemetery of St. Priscilla, a dove takes the place of the angel, while a fourth-century representation of the same subject, in the coemeterium majus, substitutes the Hand of God for the heavenly messenger.\n\nThe earliest known representation of angels with wings is on what is called the Prince's Sarcophagus, discovered at Sarigüzel, near Istanbul, in the 1930s, and attributed to the time of Theodosius I (379-395). Flying winged angels, very often in pairs flanking a central figure or subject, are derivations in visual terms from pairs of winged Victories in classical art.\n\nIn this same period, Saint John Chrysostom explained the significance of angels' wings: \"They manifest a nature's sublimity. That is why Gabriel is represented with wings. Not that angels have wings, but that you may know that they leave the heights and the most elevated dwelling to approach human nature. Accordingly, the wings attributed to these powers have no other meaning than to indicate the sublimity of their nature.\"\n\nFrom then on Christian art generally represented angels with wings, as in the cycle of mosaics in the Basilica di Santa Maria Maggiore (432-440). Multi-winged angels, often with only their face and wings showing, drawn from the higher grades of angels, especially cherubim and seraphim, are derived from Persian art, and are usually shown only in heavenly contexts, as opposed to performing tasks on earth. They often appear in the pendentives of domes or semi-domes of churches.\n\nAngels appear in Byzantine art in mosaics and icons. Artists found some of their inspiration from winged Greek figures such as \"Victory\". They also drew from imperial iconography. Court eunuchs could rise to positions of authority in the Empire. They performed ceremonial functions and served as trusted messengers. Amelia R. Brown points out that legislation under Justinian indicates that many of them came from the Caucasus, having light eyes, hair, and skin, as well as the \"comely features and fine bodies\" desired by slave traders. Those \"castrated in childhood developed a distinctive skeletal structure, lacked full masculine musculature, body hair and beards...\" As officials, they would wear a white tunic decorated with gold. Brown suggests that \"Byzantine artists drew, consciously or not, on this iconography of the court eunuch\".\n\nDaniel 10: 5-6 describes an angel as clothed in linen and girt with gold. Angels, especially the archangel Michael, who were depicted as military-style agents of God, came to be shown wearing Late Antique military uniform. This could be either the normal military dress, with a tunic to about the knees, armour breastplate and pteruges, but also often the specific dress of the bodyguard of the Byzantine Emperor, with a long tunic and the \"loros\", a long gold and jewelled pallium restricted to the Imperial family and their closest guards, and in icons to archangels. The basic military dress it is still worn in pictures into the Baroque period and beyond in the West, and up to the present day in Eastern Orthodox icons. Other angels came to be conventionally depicted in long robes.\n\nMedieval depictions of angels borrow from the Byzantine. In the French \"Hours of Anne of Brittany\", Gabriel wears a dalmatic. In the later Middle Ages they often wear the vestments of a deacon, a cope over a dalmatic, especially Gabriel in Annunciation scenes - for example \"The Annunciation\" by Jan van Eyck. This indicated that, for all their powers, they could not perform the Eucharist, and were in this respect outranked by every priest, reinforcing the prestige of the clergy. In Early Christian art white robes were almost invariably adopted, sometimes bound with the \"golden girdle\" of Revelation. During the mediæval period senior angels were often clad in every brilliant colour, while junior ranks wore white. Early Renaissance painters such as Jan van Eyck and Fra Angelico painted angels with multi-colored wings. Depictions of angels came to combine medieval notions of beauty with feminine ideals of grace and beauty, as in da Panicale's 1435 \"Baptism of Christ\".\n\nThe classical \"erotes\" or \"putto\" re-appeared in art during the Italian Renaissance in both religious and mythological art, and is often known in English as a cherub, the singular of cherubim, actually one of the higher ranks in the Christian angelic hierarchy. They normally appear in groups and are generally given wings in religious art, and are sometimes represented as just a winged head. They generally are just in attendance, except that they may be amusing Christ or John the Baptist as infants in scenes of the Holy Family.\n\nIn the late 19th century artists' model Jane Burden Morris came to embody an ideal of beauty for Pre-Raphaelite painters. With the use of her long dark hair and features made somewhat more androgynous, they created a prototype Victorian angel which would appear in paintings and stained glass windows. Roger Homan notes that Edward Burne-Jones and others used her image often and in different ways, creating a new type of angel.\n\nAccording to Islamic teaching, angels are made of light, are beautiful, and have wings; although the shape and form of the wings are unknown. In Islamic art angels mainly appear mainly in narrative scenes in miniature painting, in the Persian Mughal and Ottoman traditions. They are especially common in illustrations of the Prophet's Mi'raj, one of the occasions where their presence is mentioned in the Quran. Their appearance generally draws more from the iconography of pre-Islamic Persia, and Buddhist art, than from angels in Christian art. Some of the earliest Ilkhanid examples are exceptions to this. They have wings, often multi-coloured, and very often floating scarves drawing from Chinese Buddhist art. They are not very common however; many appear in illustrations to biographical accounts of the life of the Prophet Muhammad, which are themselves rare. There are a few studies of angels by themselves, especially from Safavid Persia.\n\nIn Islamic holy book, God rejects the depictions of angel as female in several verses of Quran, and He will question those who make the depiction.\n\n"}
{"id": "3611206", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3611206", "title": "Ann Davies (occultist)", "text": "Ann Davies (occultist)\n\nAnn Davies (October 28, 1912 – 1975) was an American occultist.\n\nSuccessor to Paul Foster Case in Builders of the Adytum (B.O.T.A.), Davies served as Prolocutor General until her death in 1975. She expanded the curriculum of the school by amplifying and reworking Case's 'Esoteric Astrology' and by authoring the courses on 'Developing SuperSensory Powers,' 'Sexual Polarity,' 'Meditational Ascent of the Tree of Livingness,' and 'Qabalistic Doctrines of Rebirth.'\n\nAccording to her B.O.T.A. obituary, Ann was born on October 28, 1912, in Cleveland, Ohio.\n\n\"This is Truth About the Self\". Short meditations covering the essence of each statement of The Pattern on the Trestleboard (something akin to a creed for the Builders of the Adytum). Touches on the Ten Divine Emanations depicted on the Qabalistic Tree of Life.\n\n\"Inspirational Thoughts on the Tarot\". Davies' original poetry, discussion of the attribution of the Tarot Keys and material from Davies' Tarot classes are blended together in essays examining each of the Major Tarot Keys.\n\n\"Monograph on Principles of Health and Diet\". Advice and guidance about physical health from a Qabalistic perspective.\n\nMany of Davies' lectures and monographs on Qabalah, occult tarot, meditation and astrology are described at the B.O.T.A. website.\n\nSome biographical material on Davies can be found in the book \"Paul Foster Case. His Life and Works\" by Paul Clark, Steward of the Fraternity of the Hidden Light. The book also contains purported messages from Master R (Comte de St. Germaine) to Paul Foster Case, Ann Davies and Case's wife Harriet.\n"}
{"id": "4781942", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4781942", "title": "Apostolic Syndic", "text": "Apostolic Syndic\n\nAn Apostolic Syndic is a Catholic layman, who in the name, and by the authority, of the Holy See, assumes the care and civil administration of the temporalities and in particular the pecuniary alms destined for the support and benefit of Franciscan convents, and thence provides for the requirements of the brethren.\n\nTo the Friars Minor, corporate as well as individual ownership was forbidden by the constitution or the rule. During the first years of the order's existence, the literal observance of this precept, being feasible as well as possible, presented no difficulty; but as time went on, and the order developed as a vast organization, and spread over the whole world, countless difficulties had to be faced and fierce controversy arose, the quaestio de paupertate lasting for centuries. To preserve and safeguard as far as possible the letter as well as the spirit of the complete \"expropriation\" advocated by St. Francis, the popes adopted the \"fictio juris\" of assuming to themselves the ownership of all goods bestowed upon the friars. Thus the friars were legally regarded as mere users, the right of property being vested in the Roman pontiff, except in cases where the donors made explicit reservation in their own behalf. But as the civil administration of property in one's own interest is an act of ownership, and this was prohibited by the rule, such administration had to be exercised by a steward appointed, or at least authorized, by the Holy See.\n\nAccording to the Decretal of Nicholas III, \"Exiit qui seminat\" (art. 12, n. 2) of 14 August 1279, the appointment of the Apostolic Syndic rested with the sovereign pontiff or the order's cardinal protector; sometimes bishops acted as their delegates in this matter; but Martin IV (\"Exultantes\", 18 January 1283) empowered the superiors of the order —the general, the provincials, and the custodes— within their respective spheres of jurisdiction, to appoint and remove syndics as circumstances might require.\n\nThe larger powers with which the syndic was invested by Martin IV and by his successors, Martin V (\"Constitutiones Martinianae\" in Wadding, \"Annales\", X, 301) and Paul IV (\"Ex Clementi\", 1 July 1555), gave rise to the appellation syndicus Martinianus in contradistinction to syndicus communis. This latter, as constituted by Nicholas III (Exiit) and Clement V (\"Exivi de Paradiso\", 6 May 1312), could deal only with movable property (valuables excepted) and with purchase moneys. The Martinian syndic on the other hand, as trustee and agent of the Holy See on behalf of the friars, might receive and dispose of all goods movable and immovable (money offerings, legacies, and remunerations) and, in pursuance of his trust, institute proceedings in the courts and take such other steps as might be deemed necessary to protect the interest of the community in whose favour he acted.\n\nThe Apostolic syndic and his wife and children were accorded the enjoyment of all and sundry indulgences, pardons, and privileges which the friars themselves have obtained, or shall obtain, from the Holy See (Clement VII, \"Dum Consideramus\", 16 April 1526).\n"}
{"id": "1291882", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1291882", "title": "Atenism", "text": "Atenism\n\nAtenism, or the \"Amarna heresy\", refers to the religious changes associated with the eighteenth dynasty Pharaoh Amenhotep IV, better known under his adopted name, Akhenaten. In the 14th century BC, Atenism was Egypt's state religion for around 20 years, before subsequent rulers returned to the traditional gods and the Pharaohs associated with Atenism were erased from Egyptian records.\n\nAten, the god of Atenism, first appears in texts dating to the 12th dynasty, in the Story of Sinuhe. During the Middle Kingdom, Aten \"as the sun disk...was merely one aspect of the sun god Re.\" It was a relatively obscure sun god; without the Atenist period, it would barely have figured in Egyptian history. Although there are indications that it was becoming slightly more important during the eighteenth dynasty, notably Amenhotep III's naming of his royal barge as \"Spirit of the Aten\", it was Amenhotep IV who introduced the Atenist revolution in a series of steps culminating in the official installment of the Aten as Egypt's sole god. Although each line of kings prior to the reign of Akhenaten had previously adopted one deity as the royal patron and supreme state god, there had never been an attempt to exclude other deities, and the multitude of gods had always been tolerated and worshipped. During the reign of Thutmosis IV, it was identified as a distinct solar god, and his son Amenhotep III established and promoted a separate cult for the Aten. There is no evidence that Amenhotep III neglected the other gods or attempted to promote the Aten as an exclusive deity.\n\nAmenhotep IV initially introduced Atenism in the fifth year of his reign (1348/1346 BC), raising Aten to the status of supreme god, after having initially permitted continued worship of the traditional gods. To emphasise the change, Aten's name was written in the cartouche form normally reserved for Pharaohs, an innovation of Atenism. The religious reformation appears to coincide with the proclamation of a Sed festival, a sort of royal jubilee intended to reinforce the Pharaoh's divine powers of kingship. Traditionally held in the thirtieth year of the Pharaoh's reign, it possibly was a festival in honour of Amenhotep III. Some Egyptologists think that he had a coregency with Amenhotep IV of 2-12 years.\nThe fifth year is believed to mark the beginning of Amenhotep IV's construction of a new capital, Akhetaten (\"Horizon of the Aten\"), at the site known today as Amarna. Evidence appears on three of the boundary stelae used to mark the boundaries of this new capital. Then, Amenhotep IV officially changed his name to Akhenaten (\"Spirit of the Aten\") as evidence of his new worship. The date given for the event has been estimated to fall around January 2 of that year. In the seventh year of his reign (1346/1344 BC), the capital was moved from Thebes to Akhetaten, but construction of the city seems to have continued for two more years. In shifting his court from the traditional ceremonial centres, he was signalling a dramatic transformation in the focus of religious and political power.\n\nThe move separated the Pharaoh and his court from the influence of the priesthood and from the traditional centres of worship, but his decree had deeper religious significance too. Taken in conjunction with his name change, it is possible that the move to Amarna was also meant as a signal of Akhenaten's symbolic death and rebirth. It may also have coincided with the death of his father and the end of the coregency. In addition to constructing a new capital in honor of Aten, Akhenaten also oversaw the construction of some of the most massive temple complexes in ancient Egypt, including one at Karnak and one at Thebes, close to the old temple of Amun.\n\nIn the ninth year of his reign (1344/1342 BC), Akhenaten declared a more radical version of his new religion, declaring Aten not merely the supreme god of the Egyptian pantheon but the only God of Egypt, with himself as the sole intermediary between the Aten and the Egyptian people. Key features of Atenism included a ban on idols and other images of the Aten, with the exception of a rayed solar disc in which the rays (commonly depicted ending in hands) appear to represent the unseen spirit of Aten. Aten was addressed by Akhenaten in prayers, such as the \"Great Hymn to the Aten\": \"O Sole God beside whom there is none\". Aten's name is also written differently after the ninth year of the Pharaoh's rule to emphasise the radicalism of the new regime. Aten, instead of being written with the symbol of a rayed solar disc, now became spelled phonetically.\n\nThe details of Atenist theology are still unclear. The exclusion of all but one god and the prohibition of idols was a radical departure from Egyptian tradition, but most scholars see Akhenaten as a practitioner of monolatry rather than monotheism, as he did not actively deny the existence of other gods. He simply refrained from worshiping any but Aten.\n\nIt is known that Atenism did not attribute divinity only to Aten. Akhenaten continued the cult of the Pharaoh, proclaiming himself the son of Aten and encouraging the Egyptian people to worship him. The Egyptian people were to worship Akhenaten, and only Akhenaten and Nefertiti could worship Aten directly.\n\nAkhenaten carried out a radical program of religious reform. For about twenty years, he largely supplanted the age-old beliefs and practices of the Egyptian state religion, and deposed its religious hierarchy, headed by the powerful priesthood of Amun at Thebes. For fifteen centuries, the Egyptians had worshiped an extended family of gods and goddesses, each of which had its own elaborate system of priests, temples, shrines and rituals. A key feature of the cults was the veneration of images and statues of the gods, which were worshipped in the dark confines of the temples.\n\nThe pinnacle of the religious hierarchy was the Pharaoh, both king and living god. Administration of the Egyptian kingdom was thus inextricably bound up with and largely controlled by the power and influence of the priests and scribes. Akhenaten's reforms cut away both the philosophical and economic bases of priestly power, abolishing the cults of all other deities and, with them, the large and lucrative industry of sacrifices and tributes that the priests controlled.\n\nAt the same time, he strengthened the role of the Pharaoh. Dominic Montserrat, analysing the various versions of the hymns to the Aten, argues that all versions of the hymns focus on the king; he suggests that the real innovation is to redefine the relationship of god and king in a way that benefited Akhenaten, quoting a statement of Egyptologist John Baines: \"Amarna religion was a religion of god and king, or even of king first and then god\".\n\nInitially, Akhenaten presented Aten to the Egyptian people as a variant of the familiar supreme deity Amun-Ra (itself the result of an earlier rise to prominence of the cult of Amun, resulting in Amun becoming merged with the sun god Ra), in an attempt to put his ideas in a familiar religious context. \"Aten\" is the name given to the solar disc, and the full title of Akhenaten's god was \"Ra-Horus, who rejoices in the horizon in his name of the light which is in the sun disc\". (That is the title of the god as it appears on numerous stelae, placed to mark the boundaries of Akhenaten's new capital at Akhetaten.)\n\nHowever, in the ninth year of his reign Akhenaten declared a more radical version of his new religion by declaring Aten not merely the supreme god but the only god, and Akhenaten was the son of Aten was the only intermediary between the Aten and his people. He ordered the defacing of Amun's temples throughout Egypt. Key features of Atenism included a ban on idols and other images of the Aten, with the exception of a rayed solar disc in which the rays, commonly depicted as ending in hands, appear to represent the unseen spirit of Aten. New temples were constructed in which the Aten was worshipped in the open sunlight rather than in dark temple enclosures, as the old gods had been.\n\nAlthough idols were banned, even in people's homes, they were typically replaced by functionally equivalent representations of Akhenaten and his family venerating the Aten and receiving the ankh (breath of life) from him. The radicalisation of the ninth year, including spelling Aten phonetically instead of using the rayed solar disc, may be a determination on the part of Akhenaten to dispel a probable misconception among the common people that Aten was really a type of sun god like Ra. Instead, the idea was reinforced that such representations were representations above all of concepts, of Aten's universal presence, not of physical beings or things.\n\nStyles of art that flourished during the brief period are markedly different from other Egyptian art. They bear a variety of affectations, from elongated heads to protruding stomachs, exaggerated ugliness and the beauty of Nefertiti. Significantly, for the only time in the history of Egyptian royal art, Akhenaten's family was depicted in a decidedly naturalistic manner. It is clearly shown displaying affection. \n\nImages of Akhenaten and Nefertiti usually depict the Aten prominently above that pair, with the hands of the Aten closest to each offering Ankhs. Unusually for New Kingdom art, the Pharaoh and his wife are depicted as approximately equal in size, with Nefertiti's image used to decorate the lesser Aten temple at Amarna. That may suggest that she also had a prominent official role in Aten worship.\n\nArtistic representations of Akhenaten usually give him an unusual appearance, with slender limbs, a protruding belly and wide hips. Other leading figures of the Amarna period, both royal and otherwise, are also shown with some of these features, suggesting a possible religious connotation, especially as some sources suggest that private representations of Akhenaten, as opposed to official art, show him as quite normal. It is also suggested by Bob Brier, in his book \"The Murder of Tutankhamen\", that the family suffered from Marfan's syndrome, which is known to cause elongated features, which may explain Akhenaten's appearance.\n\nCrucial evidence about the latter stages of Akhenaten's reign was furnished by discovery of the so-called \"Amarna Letters\". Believed to have been thrown away by scribes after being transferred to papyrus, the letters comprise a priceless cache of incoming clay message tablets sent from imperial outposts and foreign allies. The letters suggest that Akhenaten was obsessed with his new religion, and his neglect of matters of state was causing disorder across the massive Egyptian empire. The governors and kings of subject domains wrote to beg for gold and complained of being snubbed and cheated. Also discovered were reports that a major plague pandemic was spreading across the ancient Near East. This pandemic appears to have claimed the life of Akhenaten's main wife (Nefertiti) and several of his six daughters, which may have contributed to a declining interest on the part of Akhenaten in governing effectively.\n\nWith Akhenaten's death, the Aten cult he had founded almost immediately fell out of favor due to pressures from the Priesthood of Amun. Tutankhaten, who succeeded him at 8 (with Akhenaten's old vizier, Ay, as regent) changed his name to Tutankhamun in the third year of his reign (1330 BC) and abandoned Akhetaten, the city falling into ruin. The temples that Akhenaten had built from talaat blocks, including the temple at Thebes, were disassembled by later pharaohs, reused as a source of building materials and decorations for their own temples, and inscriptions to Aten were defaced. Finally, Akhenaten, Smenkhkare, Tutankhamun, and Ay were removed from the official lists of Pharaohs, which instead reported that Amenhotep III was immediately succeeded by Horemheb.\n\nBecause of the monolatristic or monotheistic character of Atenism, a link to Judaism (or other monotheistic religions) has been suggested by various writers. For example, psychoanalyst Sigmund Freud assumed Akhenaten to be the pioneer of monotheistic religion and Moses as Akhenaten's follower in his book \"Moses and Monotheism\" (see also Osarseph). The Egyptian author Ahmed Osman went as far as to claim that Moses and Akhenaten were the same person.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8512656", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8512656", "title": "Baba Dharam Dass", "text": "Baba Dharam Dass\n\nBaba Dharam Dass holy man during the reign of Mughal Emperor Akbar. The Baba Dharam Dass is worshiped as ancestor by all Jains from the village of Pasrur in Sialkot District in the Punjab province of Pakistan.\n\nBaba Dharam Dass is a holy man whose Tomb is located near the bank of a creek called (Deoka or Deokay or Degh) near Chawinda phatak back side of agricultural main office pasrur, the town of Pasrur near Sialkot in Punjab province of Pakistan.\n\nBaba Dharam Dass retained his profession as a clothes merchant. He was murdered in a nearby village while selling his goods from a horse.\n\n"}
{"id": "25387769", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25387769", "title": "Bhamra", "text": "Bhamra\n\nBamrah (or \"Bhamra, Bumrah or Bambra\"') is a Jatt clan found in Punjab region of India.\nBhamra or Bhamda is a Bhuiyar community clan found in North India (Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Rajsthan, Delhi).\n"}
{"id": "4737099", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4737099", "title": "Brainard Cheney", "text": "Brainard Cheney\n\nBrainard Cheney (June 3, 1900 – January 15, 1990) was a novelist, playwright and essayist from Georgia associated primarily with the literary movement known as the Agrarians.\n\nCheney was born in Fitzgerald, in the wiregrass region of south central Georgia. He moved to Lumber City with his family when he was six years old. He had a writing career that covered four decades. He published four novels — \"Lightwood\" (1939), \"River Rogue\" (1942), \"This Is Adam\" (1958), and \"Devil's Elbow\" (1969) — that depict the marring of Agrarian ideals by the social transformation of south Georgia between 1870 and 1960. Ultimately, these novels demonstrate the negative impact of unfettered capitalism, Reconstruction, and northern exploitation on south Georgia.\n\nCheney attended Vanderbilt University in Nashville, Tennessee and there became friends with many of the Fugitives and Agrarian writers. He took courses under John Crowe Ransom and shared a room with Robert Penn Warren. In 1928, Cheney married Frances Neel, a reference librarian. He and his wife frequently entertained Caroline Gordon and Allen Tate at Idler's Retreat, a large Antebellum house in Smyrna, Tennessee, which Frances had inherited. When they were received into the Roman Catholic Church in 1953, Gordon and Tate were their sponsors.\nAfter Vanderbilt, Cheney became involved in journalism and politics, working for the \"Nashville Banner\" from 1925 to 1942, and later as public relations director for Tennessee governor Frank G. Clement from 1952 to 1958. He later penned the governor's address at the 1956 Democratic National Convention (\"How long oh Lord, how long...\"), as well as assisting Robert Penn Warren with some of the speeches included in his novel, \"All the King's Men\".\n\nCheney's first novel, \"Lightwood\", dealt with the Dodge Timber Wars that followed the Civil War. These events took place in the current south Georgia counties of Dodge and Telfair, during a period from 1870 through as late as 1923. The associated legal case is considered one of the most complex in recent history, reminiscent of Dickens' book, \"Bleak House\". In 2011, \"The Lightwood Chronicles, being the true story of Brainard Cheney's novel, Lightwood\", was published. The book includes a collection of essays and other information relating to the Wars, divided into two sections: \"Lightwood\" as History and \"Lightwood\" as Fiction. The editor, Stephen Whigham, interviewed Mr. Cheney in 1982.\n\nCheney wrote two plays, \"Strangers in This World\", produced at the Vanderbilt University Theater in February 1952 and at the Little Theater, University of Louisville, Belknap Campus, in January 1956, and \"I Choose to Die\", produced at the Vanderbilt University Theater in November 1960.\n\nIn August 1952, Cheney wrote an appreciative review of Flannery O'Connor's first novel, \"Wise Blood\". Obtaining Cheney's address from Caroline Gordon, O'Connor wrote to thank him for writing about her book \"so carefully and with so much understanding\". In his reply, Cheney described himself to the Catholic O'Connor as \"an ex-Protestant, ex-agnostic, who had just found his way back (after 10 or 12 generations) to The Church\". The Cheneys visited O'Connor for the first time in June 1953. They became close friends with O'Connor and corresponded and shared ideas with her until her death in 1964. Like O'Connor, Cheney was interested in the work of Teilhard de Chardin, about whom in 1965 he co-authored an essay, \"Has Teilhard de Chardin Really Joined the Within and Without of Things?\", published in \"The Sewanee Review\".\n\nCheney returned to Georgia in the early 1980s to celebrate a reprinting of his first two novels and the Altamaha R.A.F.T. (Restoring Altamaha Folk Traditions) festival. For the festival, Cheney, who had served as a raft-hand in about 1917, piloted a reconstructed timber raft all the way to the coast at Darien, Georgia. Cheney died in Nashville in 1990 at the age of eighty-nine. His wife died in 1996, also at the age of eighty-nine.\n\nCheney's novels reveal his desire for a return to a simpler way of life, one founded on natural cycles and rooted in an appreciation of the land. His tragic characters often go astray by attempting to urbanize themselves or betray their own way of life. In his work, redemption can only be achieved by a return to a farm or a religious conversion, as in \"Devil's Elbow.\"\n\nIn 2011, MMJW BookHouse began republishing Cheney's novels. All four novels are now available in hardcover, softcover and ebook formats.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4769845", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4769845", "title": "Breaking the Spell: Religion as a Natural Phenomenon", "text": "Breaking the Spell: Religion as a Natural Phenomenon\n\nBreaking the Spell: Religion as a Natural Phenomenon is a 2006 book in which the American philosopher and cognitive scientist Daniel Dennett argues that religion is in need of scientific analysis so that its nature and future may be better understood. The \"spell\" that requires \"breaking\" is not religious belief itself but the belief that it is off-limits to or beyond scientific inquiry.\n\nThe book is divided into three parts. Part I discusses the motivation and justification for the entire project: \"Can\" science study religion? \"Should\" science study religion? \n\nAfter answering in the affirmative, Part II proceeds to use the tools of evolutionary biology and memetics to suggest possible theories regarding the origin of religion and subsequent evolution of modern religions from ancient folk beliefs. Part III analyzes religion and its effects in today's world: Does religion make us moral? Is religion what gives meaning to life? What should we teach the children? Dennett bases much of his analysis on empirical evidence, though he often points out that much more research in this field is needed.\n\nDennett's working definition of religions is: \"social systems whose participants avow belief in a supernatural agent or agents whose approval is to be sought\". He notes that this definition is \"a place to start, not something carved in stone\".\n\nThe book has received differing reviews from various consumer, mass media outlets.\n\n\"The Guardian\"s Andrew Brown describes it as giving \"a very forceful and lucid account of the reasons why we need to study religious behaviour as a human phenomenon\".\n\nIn \"Scientific American\", George Johnson describes the book's main draw as being \"a sharp synthesis of a library of evolutionary, anthropological and psychological research on the origin and spread of religion\".\n\nIn \"The New Yorker\", evolutionary biologist H. Allen Orr described the book as \"an accessible account of what might be called the natural history of religion\".\n\nLeon Wieseltier, former member of the editorial board of the \"Jewish Review of Books, called the book, in \"The New York Times\", \"a sorry instance of present-day scientism\" and alleged it to be \"a merry anthology of contemporary superstitions\".\n\nA professor of a private, Catholic university and outspoken critic of the environmentalist movement, Charles T. Rubin, likened Dennett in \"The New Atlantis\" to \"a tone-deaf music scholar\", criticized his \"unwillingness to admit the limits of scientific rationality\" and accused him of \"deploying the same old Enlightenment tropes that didn't work all that well the first time around\".\n\n\"Breaking the Spell\" has been translated into several other languages, including:\n\n"}
{"id": "1067968", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1067968", "title": "Canon (priest)", "text": "Canon (priest)\n\nA canon (from the Latin \"canonicus\", itself derived from the Greek , \"kanonikós\", \"relating to a rule\", \"regular\") is a member of certain bodies subject to an ecclesiastical rule.\n\nOriginally, a canon was a cleric living with others in a clergy house or, later, in one of the houses within the precinct of or close to a cathedral and conducting his life according to the orders or rules of the church. This way of life grew common (and is first documented) in the eighth century. In the eleventh century, some churches required clergy thus living together to adopt the rule first proposed by Saint Augustine that they renounce private wealth. Those who embraced this change were known as Augustinians or Canons Regular, whilst those who did not were known as secular canons.\n\nIn the Roman Catholic Church, the members of the chapter of a cathedral (cathedral chapter) or of a collegiate church (so called after their chapter) are canons. Depending on the title of the church, several languages use specific titles, e.g., in German \"Domherr or Domkapitular\" in a \"Dom\" (i.e., cathedral), \"Stiftsherr\" in a prelature that has the status of a Stift (notably under a prince of the Church).\n\nOne of the functions of the cathedral chapter in the Roman Catholic Church was to elect a vicar capitular (now named a diocesan administrator) to serve during a \"sede vacante\" period of the diocese. Since the 1983 revision of the Code of Canon Law, this responsibility belongs to the college of consultors, unless the national bishops conference decides that the functions that canon law ascribes to the college of consultors, including this one, are to be entrusted to the cathedral chapter.\n\nAll canons of the Church of England have been secular since the Reformation, although an individual canon may also be a member of a religious order. Mostly, however, they are ordained, that is, priests or other clergy. Today, the system of canons is retained almost exclusively in connection with cathedral churches. A canon is a member of the chapter of (for the most part) priests, headed by a dean, which is responsible for administering a cathedral or certain other churches that are styled collegiate churches. The dean and chapter are the formal body which has legal responsibility for the cathedral and for electing the bishop.\n\nThe title of Canon is not a permanent title and when no longer in a position entitling preferment, it is usually dropped from a cleric's title nomenclature. However, it is still given in many dioceses to senior parish priests (including some Rural Deans, those who have played a role in the wider life of the diocese, those who have served in the diocese for a long time, or similar) as a largely honorary title. It is usually awarded in recognition of long and dedicated service to the diocese. Honorary canons are members of the chapter in name but are non-residential and receive no emoluments. They are entitled to call themselves canon and may have a role in the administration of the cathedral.\n\nGenerally speaking, canons in the Anglican Communion are of this sort, and thus are equivalent to a monsignor in the Roman Catholic Church, often wearing the violet or violet-trimmed cassock which is associated with that rank. In some Church of England dioceses, the title Prebendary is used instead of canon when the cleric is involved administratively with a cathedral.\n\nHonorary canons within the Roman Catholic Church may still be nominated after the Second Vatican Council. Also, priests (and honorary chaplains) of the Sovereign Military Order of Malta and the Equestrian Order of the Holy Sepulchre are, in fact, titular or honorary canons of these respective Orders and have the right to the honorific title of \"Canon\" and \"Monsignor\" in addition to the choir dress of a canon, which includes the mozetta (black with purple piping for Malta and white with a red Jerusalem cross for Holy Sepulchre.\n\nSince the reign of King Henry IV, the heads of state of France have been granted by the pope the title of sole honorary canon of Saint John Lateran and Saint Peter's. On the demise of the Kingdom of France this honour became transferred to the Presidents of the Republic, and hence is currently held by Emmanuel Macron. This applies even when the French President is not a Catholic or is an atheist. The proto-canon of the papal basilica of Saint Mary Major is the King of Spain, currently Felipe VI.\n\nBefore the Reformation, the King of England was a canon of the basilica of Saint Paul outside the Walls.\n\nIt has traditionally been said that the King of England (now the British Sovereign) is a canon or prebendary of St David's Cathedral, Wales. However, this is based on a misconception. The canonry of St Mary’s College, St David's became the property of the Crown on the dissolution of the monasteries. The Sovereign was never a canon of St David’s, even as a layman (see also The Thirty-Nine Articles of Religion (1562) Article 37), though he or she may occupy the first prebendal stall, which is assigned for the monarch's use.\n\nA canon professor is a canon at an Anglican cathedral (either lay or in orders) who also holds a university professorship. There are four canon professorships in the University of Oxford in conjunction with Christ Church Cathedral, Oxford and two in Durham University in conjunction with Durham Cathedral, although academics titled \"canon professor\" may also be found at other universities where the appointments as canon and professor have been made independently.\n\nSection 2 of the Church of England (Miscellaneous Provisions) Measure 1995 was passed for the express purpose of enabling Christ Church Cathedral, Oxford, to appoint not more than two lay canons. One of the motivations for this provision was the fact that, under section 6 of the Ecclesiastical Commissioners Act 1840, the position of Regius Professor of Ecclesiastical History in the University of Oxford was annexed to a Residentiary Canonry of the cathedral, meaning that the Regius professorship could be held only by an Anglican priest. Following the death of Peter Hinchliff in 1995 the Regius professorship was held by Henry Mayr-Harting, a Roman Catholic layman, from 1997 until 2003, and was taken up by another lay person, Sarah Foot, in Michaelmas Term 2007. Three other Statutory Professorships, the Regius Professorship of Divinity, Lady Margaret Professorship of Divinity, recently held by the famous Anglican theologian, John Macquarrie, and Regius Professorship of Moral and Pastoral Theology, are annexed to canonries of Christ Church and were until recently held only by Anglican priests.\nAt Durham, the canon professorships are the Van Mildert Professor of Divinity, the holder of which must be an Anglican priest, and the Michael Ramsey Professor of Anglican Studies, who must be Anglican but did not have to be ordained. Historically, the chair in Greek at the university was also a canon professorship. This canonry was transferred to the Lightfoot Professor of Divinity in 1940.\n\nThe Lightfoot professorship was attached to the canonry until 1985, when the non-Anglican James Dunn was appointed.\n\nMinor Canons are those clergy who are members of the foundation of a cathedral or collegiate establishment. They take part in the daily services. They have sometimes formed a distinct corporation as at St Paul's, London. In St Patrick's Dublin they are distinct from, and rank before, the Vicars Choral. The two groups overlap however; the two senior vicars, the Dean's Vicar and the Succentor, are also the two senior Minor Canons. Some Minor Canons do sit with, but are not voting members of, the Chapter. Although at present Minor Canons are generally more junior clergy this is a recent development. Within living memory such offices were often freehold and were held by clergy of great distinction and seniority.\n\nCanons regular are the members of certain religious orders in the Roman Catholic Church (not to be confused with clerics regular), composed of priests and some choir canons who live in community, together in the past with lay brothers. There are a variety of congregations of canons, some of which are part of the Confederation of Canons Regular of St. Augustine.\nMany bishops endeavoured to imitate St. Augustine and St. Eusebius, and to live a common life with the clergy of their church. Rules taken from the sacred canons were even drawn up for their use, of which the most celebrated is that of St. Chrodegang, Bishop of Metz (766). In the tenth century, this institution declined; the canons, as the clergy attached to a church and living a common life were called, began to live separately; some of them, however, resisted this relaxation of discipline, and even added poverty to their common life. This is the origin of the canons regular. Pope Benedict XII by his constitution \"Ad decorem\" (15 May 1339) prescribed a general reform of the canons regular. The canons regular ex professo united Holy Orders with religious life, and being attached to a church, devoted themselves to promoting the dignity of divine worship. With monks, Holy Orders are incidental and secondary, and are superadded to the religious life. With canons as with the clerks regular, Holy Orders are the principal thing, and the religious life is superadded to the Holy Orders.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1371633", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1371633", "title": "Diane Hegarty", "text": "Diane Hegarty\n\nDiane Hegarty (born July 10, 1942) is co-founder of the Church of Satan, which she co-founded with her longtime partner Anton LaVey.\n\nHegarty, also known as Diane LaVey and Diana Hall, was born July 10, 1942. As well as being a self-described sorceress, Diane was co-founder with Anton LaVey of the Church of Satan and served as High Priestess for approximately 25 years. \n\nAnton LaVey divorced his first wife Carole and began a relationship with Hegarty that lasted 25 years, from 1960 to 1985. They had a child, Zeena Schreck (née LaVey). At the end of their relationship Diane Hegarty sued for palimony. She appears in many of the filmed rituals of the Church. These have become stock footage for anyone desiring a depiction of Satanism. Along with her Satanic duties as hostess, model enchantress, mother and magician's wife, she helped Anton raise a lion cub named Togare.\n\nHegarty administered the Church and typed and edited The Satanic Bible, The Satanic Rituals, The Compleat Witch (aka The Satanic Witch) and The Devil’s Notebook. She did most of the Church's administrative, press and member relations work. Their daughter Zeena Schreck was in the media spotlight at age 3, at her Satanic baptism, and again defending the Church of Satan against allegations of Satanic ritual abuse as public representative and High Priestess of the Church of Satan between 1985-1990 during the 1980s Satanic panic, the politically-motivated Christian fundamentalist witch-hunts in America. Daughter Schreck resigned from the Church of Satan and renounced LaVeyan Satanism to pursue her own spiritual path in 1990 and has ceased all contact with her family.\n\nLater in life Hegarty dedicated herself to helping her grandson Stanton's career. Hegarty-Hall also works as a graphology specialist. Related to her graphological expertise, she has also admitted that she forged the \"Monroe\" inscription on the famous Marilyn Monroe calendar, which Anton LaVey used as evidence of his fictitious affair with Monroe.\n\n"}
{"id": "23136975", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23136975", "title": "Dunbar Isidore Heath", "text": "Dunbar Isidore Heath\n\nDunbar Isidore Heath (3 March 1816, London – 27 May 1888) was an English clergyman prosecuted for heresy in 1861; he was a Cambridge Apostle.\n\nDunbar Heath was the third son of George Heath, serjeant-at-law. He was educated at Trinity College, Cambridge, where he was elected scholar in 1836, and graduated B.A. in 1838. From 1840 to 1847 he was a fellow of Trinity. As a recognized authority on Egyptology, he was one of the early translators of the papyri in the British Museum. In 1852 Heath wrote \"The Future Human Kingdom of Christ\", in which he distinguished the “saved nations from the glorified saints” by outlining an early concept of “the two salvations.” He was prosecuted for heresy in 1861 by the Bishop of Winchester and sentenced by the Court of Arches for publishing these ideas. He would not recant and tried to appeal his sentence by attempting to defend his character and doctrine from the Scriptures through the writing of several booklets. All of this failed and as a result of this prosecution he suffered not only the loss of his profession, but sustained heavy financial losses as well.\n\nHeath edited the \"Journal of Anthropology\".\n"}
{"id": "7493150", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7493150", "title": "Freedom of religion in the United States", "text": "Freedom of religion in the United States\n\nIn the United States, freedom of religion is a constitutionally protected right provided in the religion clauses of the First Amendment. Freedom of religion is also closely associated with separation of church and state, a concept advocated by Colonial founders such as Dr. John Clarke, Roger Williams, William Penn and later founding fathers such as James Madison and Thomas Jefferson.\n\nThe United States Constitution addresses the issue of religion in two places: in the First Amendment, and the Article VI prohibition on religious tests as a condition for holding public office. The First Amendment prohibits the Congress from making a law \"respecting an establishment of religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof\". This provision was later expanded to state and local governments, through the Incorporation of the Fourteenth Amendment.\n\nThe October 10, 1645, charter of Flushing, Queens, New York, allowed \"liberty of conscience, according to the custom and practice of Holland without molestation or disturbance from any magistrate or ecclesiastical minister.\" However, New Amsterdam Director-General Peter Stuyvesant issued an edict prohibiting the harboring of Quakers. On December 27, 1657, the inhabitants of Flushing approved a protest known as The Flushing Remonstrance. This contained religious arguments even mentioning freedom for \"Jews, Turks, and Egyptians,\" but ended with a forceful declaration that any infringement of the town charter would not be tolerated.\nFreedom of religion was first applied as a principle in the founding of the colony of Maryland, also founded by the Catholic Lord Baltimore, in 1634. Fifteen years later (1649), an enactment of religious liberty, the Maryland Toleration Act, drafted by Lord Baltimore, provided: \"No person or persons ... shall from henceforth be any waies troubled, molested or discountenanced for or in respect of his or her religion nor in the free exercise thereof.\" The Maryland Toleration Act was repealed with the assistance of Protestant assemblymen and a new law barring Catholics from openly practicing their religion was passed. In 1657, Lord Baltimore regained control after making a deal with the colony's Protestants, and in 1658 the Act was again passed by the colonial assembly. This time, it would last more than thirty years, until 1692, when after Maryland's Protestant Revolution of 1689, freedom of religion was again rescinded. In addition in 1704, an Act was passed \"to prevent the growth of Popery in this Province\", preventing Catholics from holding political office. Full religious toleration would not be restored in Maryland until the American Revolution, when Maryland's Charles Carroll of Carrollton signed the American Declaration of Independence.\n\nRhode Island (1636), Connecticut (1636), New Jersey, and Pennsylvania (1682), founded by Baptist Roger Williams, Congregationalist Thomas Hooker, and Quaker William Penn, respectively, established the religious freedom in their colonies in direct opposition to the theocratic government which Separatist Congregationalists (Pilgrim Fathers) and Puritans had enforced in Plymouth Colony (1620) and Massachusetts Bay Colony (1628). Having fled religious persecution themselves in England, the leaders of Plymouth and Massachusetts Bay Colony restricted franchise to members of their church only, rigorously enforced their own interpretation of theological law and banished freethinkers such as Roger Williams, who was actually chased out of Salem., as well as banning Quakers and Anabaptists. These colonies became safe havens for persecuted religious minorities. Catholics and Jews also had full citizenship and free exercise of their faiths. Williams, Hooker, Penn, and their friends were firmly convinced that democracy and freedom of conscience were the will of God. Williams gave the most profound theological reason: As faith is the free gift of the Holy Spirit, it cannot be forced upon a person. Therefore, strict separation of church and state has to be kept. Pennsylvania was the only colony that retained unlimited religious freedom until the foundation of the United States. The inseparable connection of democracy, freedom of religion, and the other forms of freedom became the political and legal basis of the new nation. In particular, Baptists and Presbyterians demanded vigorously and successfully the disestablishment of the Anglican and Congregational state churches that had existed in most colonies since the seventeenth century.\n\nIn the United States, the religious civil liberties are guaranteed by the First Amendment to the United States Constitution:\n\nThe \"Establishment Clause,\" stating that \"Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion,\" is generally read to prohibit the Federal government from establishing a national church (\"religion\") or excessively involving itself in religion, particularly to the benefit of one religion over another. Following the ratification of the Fourteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution and through the doctrine of incorporation, this restriction is held to be applicable to state governments as well.\n\nThe \"Free Exercise Clause\" states that Congress cannot \"prohibit the free exercise\" of religious practices. The Supreme Court of the United States has consistently held, however, that the right to free exercise of religion is not absolute. For example, in the 19th century, some of the members of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints traditionally practiced polygamy, yet in \"Reynolds v. United States\" (1879), the Supreme Court upheld the criminal conviction of one of these members under a federal law banning polygamy. The Court reasoned that to do otherwise would set precedent for a full range of religious beliefs including those as extreme as human sacrifice. The Court stated that \"Laws are made for the government of actions, and while they cannot interfere with mere religious belief and opinions, they may with practices.\" For example, if one were part of a religion that believed in vampirism, the First Amendment would protect one's belief in vampirism, but not the practice.\n\nThe Fourteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution guarantees the religious civil rights. Whereas the First Amendment secures the free exercise of religion, section one of the Fourteenth Amendment prohibits discrimination, including on the basis of religion, by securing \"the equal protection of the laws\" for every person:\n\nThe affirmation or denial of specific religious beliefs had, in the past, been made into qualifications for public office; however, the United States Constitution states that the inauguration of a President may include an \"affirmation\" of the faithful execution of his duties rather than an \"oath\" to that effect — this provision was included in order to respect the religious prerogatives of the Quakers, a Protestant Christian denomination that declines the swearing of oaths. The U.S. Constitution also provides that \"No religious Test shall ever be required as a Qualification of any Office or public Trust under the United States.\"\nSeveral states have language included in their constitutions that requires state office-holders to have particular religious beliefs. These include Arkansas, Maryland, Massachusetts, North Carolina, Pennsylvania, South Carolina, Tennessee, and Texas. Some of these beliefs (or oaths) were historically required of jurors and witnesses in court. Even though they are still on the books, these provisions have been rendered unenforceable by U.S. Supreme Court decisions.\n\nWith reference to the use of animals, the U.S. Supreme Court decision in the cases of the Church of the Lukumi Babalu Aye v. City of Hialeah in 1993 upheld the right of Santeria adherents to practice ritual animal sacrifice with Justice Anthony Kennedy stating in the decision, \"religious beliefs need not be acceptable, logical, consistent or comprehensible to others in order to merit First Amendment protection\". (quoted by Justice Kennedy from the opinion by Justice Burger in \"Thomas v. Review Board of the Indiana Employment Security Division\" ) Likewise in Texas in 2009, issues that related to animal sacrifice and animal rights were taken to the 5th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in the case of \"Jose Merced, President Templo Yoruba Omo Orisha Texas, Inc., v. City of Euless.\" The court ruled that the free exercise of religion was meritorious and prevailing and that Merced was entitled under the Texas Religious Freedom and Restoration Act (TRFRA) to an injunction preventing the city of Euless, Texas from enforcing its ordinances that burdened his religious practices relating to the use of animals.\n\nReligious liberty has not prohibited states or the federal government from prohibiting or regulating certain behaviors; i.e. prostitution, gambling, alcohol and certain drugs, although some libertarians interpret religious freedom to extend to these behaviors. The United States Supreme Court has ruled that a right to privacy or a due process right does prevent the government from prohibiting adult access to birth control, pornography, and from outlawing sodomy between consenting adults and early trimester abortions.\n\nThomas Jefferson wrote that the First Amendment erected a \"wall of separation between church and state\" likely borrowing the language from Roger Williams, founder of the First Baptist Church in America and the Colony of Rhode Island, who used the phrase in his 1644 book, \"The Bloody Tenent of Persecution\". James Madison, often regarded as the \"Father of the Bill of Rights\", also often wrote of the \"perfect separation\", \"line of separation\", \"strongly guarded as is the separation between religion and government in the Constitution of the United States\", and \"total separation of the church from the state\". Controversy rages in the United States between those who wish to restrict government involvement with religious institutions and remove religious references from government institutions and property, and those who wish to loosen such prohibitions. Advocates for stronger separation of church and state emphasize the plurality of faiths and non-faiths in the country, and what they see as broad guarantees of the federal Constitution. Their opponents emphasize what they see as the largely Christian heritage and history of the nation (often citing the references to \"Nature's God\" and the \"Creator\" of men in the Declaration of Independence). Some more socially conservative Christian sects, such as the Christian Reconstructionist movement, oppose the concept of a \"wall of separation\" and prefer a closer relationship between church and state.\n\nProblems also arise in U.S. public schools concerning the teaching and display of religious issues. In various counties, school choice and school vouchers have been put forward as solutions to accommodate variety in beliefs and freedom of religion, by allowing individual school boards to choose between a secular, religious or multi-faith vocation, and allowing parents free choice among these schools. Critics of American voucher programs claim that they take funds away from public schools, and that the amount of funds given by vouchers is not enough to help many middle and working class parents.\n\nU.S. judges often ordered alcoholic defendants to attend Alcoholics Anonymous or face imprisonment. However, in 1999, a federal appeals court ruled this unconstitutional because the A.A. program relies on submission to a \"Higher Power\".\n\nThomas Jefferson also played a large role in the formation of freedom of religion. He created the Virginia Statute for Religious Freedom, which has since been incorporated into the Virginia State Constitution.\n\nThe United States of America was established on foundational principles by the Declaration of Independence:\n\nWe hold these truths to be self-evident:\nThat all men are created equal; that they are endowed by their Creator with certain inalienable rights; that among these are life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness; that, to secure these rights, governments are instituted among men, deriving their just powers from the consent of the governed; (based on Thomas Jefferson's draft.)\n\nIn 1944, a joint committee of the Federal Council of Churches of Christ in America and the Foreign Missions Conference formulated a \"Statement on Religious Liberty\"\n\nReligious Liberty shall be interpreted to include freedom to worship according to conscience and to bring up children in the faith of their parents; freedom for the individual to change his religion; freedom to preach, educate, publish and carry on missionary activities; and freedom to organize with others, and to acquire and hold property, for these purposes.\n\nFollowing increasing government involvement in religious matters, Congress passed the 1993 Religious Freedom Restoration Act.\nA number of states then passed corresponding acts (e.g., Missouri passed the Religious Freedom Restoration Act).\n\nSigned on November 4, 1796, the Treaty of Tripoli was a document that included the following statement:\n\nThis treaty was submitted to the Senate and was ratified unanimously on June 7, 1797, and then signed by President John Adams on June 10, 1797. In accordance with Article VI of the Constitution, on that date this treaty became incorporated as part of \"the supreme Law of the Land\".\n\nSince the 1940s, the Jehovah's Witnesses have often invoked the First Amendment's freedom of religion clauses to protect their ability to engage in the proselytizing (or preaching) that is central to their faith. This series of litigation has helped to define civil liberties case law in the United States and Canada.\n\nIn the United States of America and several other countries, the legal struggles of the Jehovah's Witnesses have yielded some of the most important judicial decisions regarding freedom of religion, press and speech. In the United States, many Supreme Court cases involving Jehovah's Witnesses are now landmark decisions of First Amendment law. Of the 72 cases involving the Jehovah's Witnesses that have been brought before the U.S. Supreme Court, the Court has ruled in favor of them 47 times. Even the cases that the Jehovah's Witnesses lost helped the U.S. to more clearly define the limits of First Amendment rights. Former Supreme Court Justice Harlan Stone jokingly suggested \"The Jehovah's Witnesses ought to have an endowment in view of the aid which they give in solving the legal problems of civil liberties.\" \"Like it or not,\" observed American author and editor Irving Dilliard, \"Jehovah's Witnesses have done more to help preserve our freedoms than any other religious group.\"\n\nProfessor C. S. Braden wrote: \"They have performed a signal service to democracy by their fight to preserve their civil rights, for in their struggle they have done much to secure those rights for every minority group in America.\"\n\n\"The cases that the Witnesses were involved in formed the bedrock of 1st Amendment protections for all citizens,\" said Paul Polidoro, a lawyer who argued the Watchtower Society's case before the Supreme Court in February 2002. \"These cases were a good vehicle for the courts to address the protections that were to be accorded free speech, the free press and free exercise of religion. In addition, the cases marked the emergence of individual rights as an issue within the U.S. court system.\n\nBefore the Jehovah's Witnesses brought several dozen cases before the U.S. Supreme Court during the 1930s and 1940s, the Court had handled few cases contesting laws that restricted freedom of speech and freedom of religion. Until then, the First Amendment had only been applied to Congress and the federal government.\n\nHowever, the cases brought before the Court by the Jehovah's Witnesses allowed the Court to consider a range of issues: mandatory flag salute, sedition, free speech, literature distribution and military draft law. These cases proved to be pivotal moments in the formation of constitutional law. Jehovah's Witnesses' court victories have strengthened rights including the protection of religious conduct from federal and state interference, the right to abstain from patriotic rituals and military service and the right to engage in public discourse.\n\nDuring the World War II era, the U.S. Supreme Court ruled in favor of Jehovah's Witnesses in several landmark cases that helped pave the way for the modern civil rights movement. In all, Jehovah's Witnesses brought 23 separate First Amendment actions before the U.S. Supreme Court between 1938 and 1946.\n\nThe Supreme Court has consistently held fast to the rule of strict separation of church and state when matters of prayer are involved.\nIn \"Engel v. Vitale\" (1962) the Court ruled that government-imposed nondenominational prayer in public school was unconstitutional. In Lee v. Weisman (1992), the Court ruled prayer established by a school principal at a middle school graduation was also unconstitutional, and in Santa Fe Independent School Dist. v. Doe (2000) it ruled that school officials may not directly impose student-led prayer during high school football games nor establish an official student election process for the purpose of indirectly establishing such prayer. The distinction between force of government and individual liberty is the cornerstone of such cases. Each case restricts acts by government designed to establish prayer while explicitly or implicitly affirming students' individual freedom to pray.\n\nThe Court has therefore tried to determine a way to deal with church/state questions. In \"Lemon v. Kurtzman\" (1971), the Court created a three-part test for laws dealing with religious establishment. This determined that a law was constitutional if it:\n\nSome examples of where inhibiting religion has been struck down:\n\n\nUnder the doctrine of Incorporation, the first amendment has been made applicable to the states. Therefore, the states must guarantee the freedom of religion in the same way the federal government must.\n\nMany states have freedom of religion established in their constitution, though the exact legal consequences of this right vary for historical and cultural reasons. Most states interpret \"freedom of religion\" as including the freedom of long-established religious communities to remain intact and not be destroyed. By extension, democracies interpret \"freedom of religion\" as the right of each individual to freely choose to convert from one religion to another, mix religions, or abandon religion altogether.\n\nThe no religious test clause of the U.S. constitution states that \"no religious test shall ever be required as a qualification to any office or public trust under the United States.\" Although it has become tradition for US presidents to end their Presidential Oath with \"so help me God\", this is not required by the . The same applies to the Vice President, the House of Representatives, the Senate, the members of the Cabinet, and all other civil and military officers and federal employees, who can either make an affirmation or take an oath ending with \"so help me God.\"\nSome state constitutions in the US require belief in God or a Supreme Being as a prerequisite for holding public office or being a witness in court. This applies to Arkansas, Maryland, Mississippi, North Carolina, where the requirement was challenged and overturned in \"Voswinkel v. Hunt\" (1979), South Carolina, Tennessee, and Texas, debatably.\nA unanimous 1961 U.S. Supreme Court decision in \"Torcaso v. Watkins\" held that the First and Fourteenth Amendments to the federal Constitution override these state requirements, so they are not enforced.\n\nProblems sometimes arise in the workplace concerning religious observance when a private employer discharges an employee for failure to report to work on what the employee considers a holy day or a day of rest. In the United States, the view that has generally prevailed is that firing for any cause in general renders a former employee ineligible for unemployment compensation, but that this is no longer the case if the 'cause' is religious in nature, especially an employee's unwillingness to work during Jewish Shabbat, Christian Sabbath, or Muslim jumu'ah.\n\nAfter reports that soldiers who refused to attend a Christian band's concert at a Virginia military base were essentially punished by being banished to their barracks and told to clean them up, an Army spokesman said that an investigation was underway and \"If something like that were to have happened, it would be contrary to Army policy.\"\n\nJohn Higham described anti-Catholicism as \"the most luxuriant, tenacious tradition of paranoiac agitation in American history\". Anti-Catholicism which was prominent in the United Kingdom was exported to the United States. Two types of anti-Catholic rhetoric existed in colonial society. The first, derived from the heritage of the Protestant Reformation and the religious wars of the 16th century, consisted of the \"Anti-Christ\" and the \"Whore of Babylon\" variety and dominated Anti-Catholic thought until the late 17th century. The second was a more secular variety which focused on the supposed intrigue of the Catholics intent on extending medieval despotism worldwide.\n\nHistorian Arthur Schlesinger Sr. has called Anti-Catholicism \"the deepest-held bias in the history of the American people.\"\nBecause many of the British colonists, such as the Puritans and Congregationalists, were fleeing religious persecution by the Church of England, much of early American religious culture exhibited the more extreme anti-Catholic bias of these Protestant denominations. Monsignor John Tracy Ellis wrote that a \"universal anti-Catholic bias was brought to Jamestown in 1607 and vigorously cultivated in all the thirteen colonies from Massachusetts to Georgia.\" Colonial charters and laws contained specific proscriptions against Roman Catholics. Monsignor Ellis noted that a common hatred of the Roman Catholic Church could unite Anglican clerics and Puritan ministers despite their differences and conflicts.\n\nSome of America's Founding Fathers held anti-clerical beliefs. For example, in 1788, John Jay urged the New York Legislature to require office-holders to renounce foreign authorities \"in all matters ecclesiastical as well as civil.\" Thomas Jefferson wrote: \"History, I believe, furnishes no example of a priest-ridden people maintaining a free civil government,\" and, \"In every country and in every age, the priest has been hostile to liberty. He is always in alliance with the despot, abetting his abuses in return for protection to his own.\"\n\nSome states devised loyalty oaths designed to exclude Catholics from state and local office. The public support for American independence and the First Amendment of the U.S. Constitution by prominent American Catholics like Charles Carroll of Carrollton, the only Catholic signer of the Declaration of Independence, and his second cousins, Bishop John Carroll and Daniel Carroll, allowed Roman Catholics to be included in the constitutional protections of civil and religious liberty.\n\nAnti-Catholic animus in the United States reached a peak in the 19th century when the Protestant population became alarmed by the influx of Catholic immigrants. Some American Protestants, having an increased interest in prophecies regarding the end of time, claimed that the Catholic Church was the Whore of Babylon in the Book of Revelation. The resulting \"nativist\" movement, which achieved prominence in the 1840s, was whipped into a frenzy of anti-Catholicism that led to mob violence, the burning of Catholic property, and the killing of Catholics. This violence was fed by claims that Catholics were destroying the culture of the United States. The nativist movement found expression in a national political movement called the Know-Nothing Party of the 1850s, which (unsuccessfully) ran former president Millard Fillmore as its presidential candidate in 1856.\n\nThe founder of the Know-Nothing movement, Lewis C. Levin, based his political career entirely on anti-Catholicism, and served three terms in the U.S. House of Representatives (1845–1851), after which he campaigned for Fillmore and other \"nativist\" candidates.\n\nAfter 1875 many states passed constitutional provisions, called \"Blaine Amendments, forbidding tax money be used to fund parochial schools. In 2002, the United States Supreme Court partially vitiated these amendments, when they ruled that vouchers were constitutional if tax dollars followed a child to a school, even if it were religious.\n\nAnti-Catholicism was widespread in the 1920s; anti-Catholics, including the Ku Klux Klan, believed that Catholicism was incompatible with democracy and that parochial schools encouraged separatism and kept Catholics from becoming loyal Americans. The Catholics responded to such prejudices by repeatedly asserting their rights as American citizens and by arguing that they, not the nativists (anti-Catholics), were true patriots since they believed in the right to freedom of religion.\n\nThe 1928 presidential campaign of Al Smith was a rallying point for the Klan and the tide of anti-Catholicism in the U.S. The Catholic \"Church of the Little Flower\" was first built in 1925 in Royal Oak, Michigan, a largely Protestant area. Two weeks after it opened, the Ku Klux Klan burned a cross in front of the church. The church burned down in a fire in 1936. In response, the church built a fireproof crucifixion tower, as a \"cross they could not burn\".\n\nIn 1922, the voters of Oregon passed an initiative amending Oregon Law Section 5259, the Compulsory Education Act. The law unofficially became known as the Oregon School Law. The citizens' initiative was primarily aimed at eliminating parochial schools, including Catholic schools. The law caused outraged Catholics to organize locally and nationally for the right to send their children to Catholic schools. In Pierce v. Society of Sisters (1925), the United States Supreme Court declared the Oregon's Compulsory Education Act unconstitutional in a ruling that has been called \"the Magna Carta of the parochial school system.\"\n\nIn 1928, Al Smith became the first Roman Catholic to gain a major party's nomination for president, and his religion became an issue during the campaign. Many Protestants feared that Smith would take orders from church leaders in Rome in making decisions affecting the country.\n\nA key factor that hurt John F. Kennedy in his 1960 campaign for the presidency of the United States was the widespread prejudice against his Roman Catholic religion; some Protestants, including Norman Vincent Peale, believed that, if he were elected president, Kennedy would have to take orders from the pope in Rome. To address fears that his Roman Catholicism would impact his decision-making, John F. Kennedy famously told the Greater Houston Ministerial Association on September 12, 1960, \"I am not the Catholic candidate for President. I am the Democratic Party's candidate for President who also happens to be a Catholic. I do not speak for my Church on public matters — and the Church does not speak for me.\" He promised to respect the separation of church and state and not to allow Catholic officials to dictate public policy to him. Kennedy also raised the question of whether one-quarter of Americans were relegated to second-class citizenship just because they were Catholic.\n\nKennedy went on to win the national popular vote over Richard Nixon by just one tenth of one percentage point (0.1%) – the closest popular-vote margin of the 20th century. In the electoral college, Kennedy's victory was larger, as he took 303 electoral votes to Nixon's 219 (269 were needed to win). \"The New York Times\", summarizing the discussion late in November, spoke of a \"narrow consensus\" among the experts that Kennedy had won more than he lost as a result of his Catholicism, as Catholics flocked to Kennedy to demonstrate their group solidarity in demanding political equality.\n\nIn 2011, The United States Conference of Catholic Bishops argued that the Obama Administration put an undue burden upon Catholics and forced them to violate their right to freedom of religion as part of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act.\n\nHistorically, the Latter Day Saint movement, which is often called Mormonism, has been the victim of religious violence beginning with reports by founder Joseph Smith immediately after his First Vision 1820 and continuing as the movement grew and migrated from its inception in western New York to Ohio, Missouri, and Illinois. The violence culminated when Smith was assassinated by a mob of 200 men in Carthage Jail in 1844. Joseph Smith had surrendered himself previously to the authorities, who failed to protect him. As a result of the violence they were faced with in the East, the Mormon pioneers, led by Brigham Young, migrated westwards and eventually founded Salt Lake City, and many other communities along the Mormon Corridor.\n\nSmith and his followers experienced relatively low levels of persecution in New York and Ohio, although one incident involved church members being tarred and feathered. They would eventually move on to Missouri, where some of the worst atrocities against Mormons would take place. Smith declared the area around Independence, Missouri to be the site of Zion, inspiring a massive influx of Mormon converts. Locals, alarmed by rumors of the strange, new religion (including rumors of polygamy), attempted to drive the Mormons out. This resulted in the 1838 Mormon War, the Haun's Mill massacre, and the issue of the Missouri Executive Order 44 by Governor Lilburn Boggs, which ordered \" ... Mormons must be treated as enemies, and must be exterminated or driven from the state ... \". The majority of Mormons would flee to Illinois, where they were received warmly by the village of Commerce, Illinois. The Mormons quickly expanded the town and renamed it Nauvoo, which was one of the largest cities in Illinois at the time. The economic, political, and religious dominance of the Mormons (Smith was mayor of the city and commander of the local militia, the Nauvoo Legion) inspired mobs to attack the city, and Smith was arrested for ordering the destruction of an anti-Mormon newspaper, the \"Nauvoo Expositor\", although he acted with the consent of the city council. He was imprisoned, along with his brother Hyrum Smith, at Carthage Jail, where they were attacked by a mob and murdered.\n\nAfter a succession crisis, most of the Mormons united under Brigham Young, who organized an evacuation from Nauvoo and from the United States itself after the federal government refused to protect the Mormons. Young and an eventual 50,000–70,000 would cross the Great Plains to settle in the Salt Lake Valley and the surrounding area. After the events of the Mexican–American War, the area became a United States territory. Young immediately petitioned for the addition of the State of Deseret, but the federal government declined. Instead, Congress carved out the much smaller Utah Territory. Over the next 46 years, several actions of the federal government were directed at Mormons, specifically to curtail the practice of polygamy and to reduce their political and economic power. These included the Utah War, Morrill Anti-Bigamy Act, Poland Act, Edmunds Act, and Edmunds–Tucker Act. In 1890, LDS Church president Wilford Woodruff issued the Manifesto, ending polygamy.\n\nWith the concept of plural marriage, from 1830 to 1890 the Mormon faith allowed its members to practice polygamy; after 1843 this was limited to polygyny (one man could have several wives). The notion of polygamy was not only generally disdained by most of Joseph Smith's contemporaries, it is also contrary to the traditional Christian understanding of marriage. After 1844 the United States government passed legislation aimed specifically at the Mormon practice of polygamy until The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church) officially renounced it. In the case of Reynolds v. United States, the U.S. supreme court concluded that \"religious duty\" was not a suitable defense to an indictment for polygamy; therefore, a law against polygamy is not legally considered to discriminate against a religion that endorses polygamy. When their appeals to the courts and lawmakers were exhausted and once church leaders were satisfied that God had accepted what they saw as their sacrifice for the principle, the prophet leader of the church announced that he had received inspiration that God had accepted their obedience and rescinded the commandment for plural marriage. In 1890, an official declaration was issued by the church prohibiting further plural marriages. Utah was admitted to the Union on January 4, 1896.\n\nAside from the general issues in the relations between Europeans and Native Americans since the initial European colonization of the Americas, there has been a historic suppression of Native American religions as well as some current charges of religious discrimination against Native Americans by the U.S. government.\n\nWith the practice of the Americanization of Native Americans, Native American children were sent to Christian boarding schools where they were forced to worship as Christians and traditional customs were banned. Until the Freedom of Religion Act 1978, \"spiritual leaders [of Native Americans] ran the risk of jail sentences of up to 30 years for simply practicing their rituals.\" The traditional indigenous Sun Dance was illegal from the 1880s (Canada) or 1904 (USA) to the 1980s.\n\nContinuing charges of religious discrimination have largely centered on the eagle feather law, the use of ceremonial peyote, and the repatriation of Native American human remains and cultural and religious objects:\n\n\nA 2006 study at the University of Minnesota showed atheists to be the most distrusted minority among Americans. In the study, sociologists Penny Edgell, Joseph Gerties and Douglas Hartmann conducted a survey of American public opinion on attitudes towards different groups. 40% of respondents characterized atheists as a group that \"does not at all agree with my vision of American society\", putting atheists well ahead of every other group, with the next highest being Muslims (26%) and homosexuals (23%). When participants were asked whether they agreed with the statement, \"I would disapprove if my child wanted to marry a member of this group,\" atheists again led minorities, with 48% disapproval, followed by Muslims (34%) and African-Americans (27%). Joe Foley, co-chairman for Campus Atheists and Secular Humanists, commented on the results, \"I know atheists aren't studied that much as a sociological group, but I guess atheists are one of the last groups remaining that it's still socially acceptable to hate.\" A University of British Columbia study conducted in the United States found that believers distrust atheists as much as they distrust rapists. The study also showed that atheists have lower employment prospects.\n\nSeveral private organizations, the most notable being the Boy Scouts of America, do not allow atheist members. However, this policy has come under fire by organizations who assert that the Boy Scouts of America do benefit from taxpayer money and thus cannot be called a truly private organization, and thus must admit atheists, and others currently barred from membership. An organization called Scouting for All, founded by Eagle Scout Steven Cozza, is at the forefront of the movement.\n\nIn the 1994 case \"Board of Education of Kiryas Joel Village School District v. Grumet\", Supreme Court Justice David Souter wrote in the opinion for the Court that: \"government should not prefer one religion to another, or religion to irreligion\". Everson v. Board of Education established that \"neither a state nor the Federal Government can pass laws which aid one religion, aid all religions, or prefer one religion over another\". This applies the Establishment Clause to the states as well as the federal government. However, several state constitutions make the protection of persons from religious discrimination conditional on their acknowledgment of the existence of a deity, making freedom of religion in those states inapplicable to atheists. These state constitutional clauses have not been tested. Civil rights cases are typically brought in federal courts, so such state provisions are mainly of symbolic importance.\n\nIn \"Elk Grove Unified School District v. Newdow\" (2004), after atheist Michael Newdow challenged the phrase \"under God\" in the United States Pledge of Allegiance, the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals found the phrase unconstitutional. Although the decision was stayed pending the outcome of an appeal, there was the prospect that the pledge would cease to be legally usable without modification in schools in the western United States, over which the Ninth Circuit has jurisdiction. This resulted in political furor, and both houses of Congress passed resolutions condemning the decision, unanimously. On June 26, a Republican-dominated group of 100–150 congressmen stood outside the capital and recited the pledge, showing how much they disagreed with the decision. The Supreme Court subsequently reversed the decision, ruling that Newdow did not have standing to bring his case, thus disposing of the case without ruling on the constitutionality of the pledge.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "840527", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=840527", "title": "George F. R. Ellis", "text": "George F. R. Ellis\n\nGeorge Francis Rayner Ellis, FRS, Hon. FRSSAf (born 11 August 1939), is the emeritus distinguished professor of complex systems in the Department of Mathematics and Applied Mathematics at the University of Cape Town in South Africa. He co-authored \"The Large Scale Structure of Space-Time\" with University of Cambridge physicist Stephen Hawking, published in 1973, and is considered one of the world's leading theorists in cosmology. He is an active Quaker and in 2004 he won the Templeton Prize. From 1989 to 1992 he served as president of the International Society on General Relativity and Gravitation. He is a past president of the International Society for Science and Religion. He is an A-rated researcher with the NRF.\n\nEllis was a vocal opponent of apartheid during the National Party reign in the 1970s and 1980s, and it is during this period that Ellis's research has focused on the more philosophical aspects of cosmology, for which he won the Templeton Prize. He was also awarded the Order of the Star of South Africa by Nelson Mandela, in 1999. On 18 May 2007, he was elected a fellow of the British Royal Society.\n\nIn 2005 Ellis appeared as a guest speaker at the Nobel Conference in St. Peter, Minnesota.\n\nBorn in 1939 to George Rayner Ellis, a newspaper editor, and Gwendoline Hilda MacRobert Ellis in Johannesburg, George Francis Rayner Ellis attended the University of Cape Town, where he graduated with honours in 1960 with a Bachelor of Science degree in physics with distinction. He represented the university in fencing, rowing and flying.\n\nWhile a student at Cambridge University, where he received a PhD in applied maths and theoretical physics in 1964, he was on college rowing teams.\n\nAt Cambridge, Ellis served as a research fellow from 1965 to 1967, was assistant lecturer in the Department of Applied Mathematics and Theoretical Physics until 1970, and was then appointed university lecturer, serving until 1974.\n\nEllis became a visiting professor at the Enrico Fermi Institute at the University of Chicago in 1970, a lecturer at the Cargese Summer School in Corsica in 1971 and the Erice Summer School in Sicily in 1972, and a visiting H3 professor at the University of Hamburg, also in 1972.\n\nThe following year, Ellis co-wrote \"The Large Scale Structure of Space-Time\" with Stephen Hawking, debuting at a strategic moment in the development of General Relativity Theory.\n\nIn the following year, Ellis returned to South Africa to accept an appointment as professor of applied mathematics at the University of Cape Town, a position he held until his retirement in 2005.\n\nGeorge Ellis has worked for many decades on anisotropic cosmologies (Bianchi models) and inhomogeneous universes, and on the philosophy of cosmology. He is currently writing on the emergence of complexity, and the way this is enabled by top-down causation in the hierarchy of complexity.\n\nIn terms of philosophy of science, Ellis is a Platonist.\n\n\nEllis has over 500 published articles (See \"\" here for top cited papers) including 17 in Nature. Notable papers include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18641652", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18641652", "title": "Good News (TV series)", "text": "Good News (TV series)\n\nGood News (also known as The Good News) is an American short-lived sitcom and a spin-off of \"Sparks\" that aired on UPN from August 25, 1997 to May 19, 1998. It is also the final TV series to be produced by MTM Enterprises, before it was folded into 20th Century Fox Television.\n\nThe series focused on David Randolph (David Ramsey), a young acting pastor designated to Compton, California's African American Church of Life. Initially, the majority of the church's members balk at the young pastor's new position and resent him replacing their former pastor. With the help of the church's secretary, Vera Hudson (Rose Jackson Moye), Randolph attempts to reunite the church and help his congregation.\n\nOther cast members included Roz Ryan as Hattie, the church's cook, Tracey Cherelle Jones as the church's youth director, Guy Torry as a choir member and janitor.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22524677", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22524677", "title": "Hindu art", "text": "Hindu art\n\nHindu art encompasses the artistic traditions and styles culturally connected to Hinduism and have a long history of religious association with Hindu scriptures, rituals and worship.\n\nHinduism, with its 1 billion followers, it makes up about 15% of the world’s population and as such the culture that ensues it is full of different aspects of life that are effected by art. There are 64 traditional arts that are followed that start with the classics of music and range all the way to the application and adornment of jewelry. Since religion and culture are inseparable with Hinduism recurring symbols such as the gods and their reincarnations, the lotus flower, extra limbs, and even the traditional arts make their appearances in many sculptures, paintings, music, and dance.\n\nNatya Shastra and centuries of Hindu cultural traditions have given rise to several art forms. Some of which are:\n\n\nThe names and meanings of all the 64 Arts\n\n(1) gita — art of singing.\n\n(2) vadya — art of playing on musical instruments.\n\n(3) nritya — art of dancing.\n\n(4) natya — art of theatricals.\n\n(5) alekhya — art of painting.\n\n(6) viseshakacchedya — art of painting the face and body with colored unguents and cosmetics.\n\n(7) tandula-kusuma-bali-vikara — art of preparing offerings from rice and flowers.\n\n(8) pushpastarana — art of making a covering of flowers for a bed.\n\n(9) dasana-vasananga-raga — art of applying preparations for cleansing the teeth, cloths and painting the body.\n\n(10) mani-bhumika-karma — art of making the jewel garlands.\n\n(11) sayya-racana — art of covering the bed.\n\n(12) udaka-vadya — art of playing on music in water.\n\n(13) udaka-ghata — art of splashing water on ground.\n\n(14) citra-yoga — art of practically applying an admixture of colors.\n\n(15) malya-grathana-vikalpa — art of designing a preparation of wreaths or garlands.\n\n(16) sekharapida-yojana — art of practically setting the coronet on the head.\n\n(17) nepathya-yoga — art of practically dressing\n\n(18) karnapatra-bhanga — art of decorating the tragus of the ear.\n\n(19) sugandha-yukti — art of practical application of aromatics.\n\n(20) bhushana-yojana — art of applying or setting ornaments.\n\n(21) aindra-jala — art of jugglery.\n\n(22) kaucumara — a kind of art.\n\n(23) hasta-laghava — art of sleight of hand.\n\n(24) citra-sakapupa-bhakshya-vikara-kriya — art of preparing varieties of foods - curries, soups, sweetmeats\n\n(25) panaka-rasa-ragasava-yojana — art of preparing palatable drinks and fruit juices\n\n(26) suci-vaya-karma — art of needleworks and weaving.\n\n(27) sutra-krida — art of playing with thread.\n\n(28) vina-damuraka-vadya — art of playing on lute and small x-shaped drum.\n\n(29) prahelika — art of making and solving riddles.\n(29-a) pratimala — art of caping or reciting verse for verse as a trial for memory or skill.\n\n(30) durvacaka-yoga — art of practicing language difficult to be answered by others.\n\n(31) pustaka-vacana — art of reciting books.\n\n(32) natikakhyayika-darsana — art of enacting short plays and anecdotes.\n\n(33) kavya-samasya-purana — art of solving enigmatic verses.\n\n(34) pattika-vetra-bana-vikalpa — art of designing preparation of shield, cane and arrows.\n\n(35) tarku-karma — art of spinning by spindle.\n\n(36) takshana — art of carpentry.\n\n(37) vastu-vidya — art of engineering.\n\n(38) raupya-ratna-pariksha — art of testing silver and jewels.\n\n(39) dhatu-vada — art of metallurgy.\n\n(40) mani-raga jnana — art of judging jewels.\n\n(41) akara jnana — art of mineralogy.\n\n(42) vrikshayur-veda-yoga — art of practicing medicine or medical treatment, by herbs.\n\n(43) mesha-kukkuta-lavaka-yuddha-vidhi — art of knowing the mode of fighting of lambs, cocks and birds.\n\n(44) suka-sarika-prapalana (pralapana)? — art of maintaining or knowing conversation between male and female cockatoos.\n\n(45) utsadana — art of healing or cleaning a person with perfumes.\n\n(46) kesa-marjana-kausala — art of combing hair.\n\n(47) akshara-mushtika-kathana — art of talking with fingers.\n\n(48) mlecchita-kutarka-vikalpa — art of fabricating barbarous or foreign sophistry.\n\n(49) desa-bhasha-jnana — art of knowing provincial dialects.\n\n(50) pushpa-sakatika-nirmiti-jnana — art of knowing prediction by heavenly voice or knowing preparation of toy carts by flowers.\n\n(51) yantra-matrika — art of mechanics.\n\n(52) dharana-matrika — art of the use of amulets.\n\n(53) samvacya — art of conversation.\n\n(54) manasi kavya-kriya — art of composing verse mentally.\n\n(55) kriya-vikalpa — art of designing a literary work or a medical remedy.\n\n(56) chalitaka-yoga — art of practicing as a builder of shrines\n\n(57) abhidhana-kosha-cchando-jnana — art of the use of lexicography and meters.\n\n(58) vastra-gopana — art of concealment of cloths.\n\n(59) dyuta-visesha — art of knowing specific gambling.\n\n(60) akarsha-krida — art of playing with dice or magnet.\n\n(61) balaka-kridanaka — art of using children’s toys.\n\n(62) vainayiki vidya — art of enforcing discipline.\n\n(63) vaijayiki vidya — art of gaining victory.\n\n(64) vaitaliki vidya — art of awakening master with music at dawn\n\n(65) aaaah vidya — art of awakening sound from Mani.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53412754", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53412754", "title": "Hun Yuan", "text": "Hun Yuan\n\nChang Yi-Jui, later known as Grand Master Hun Yuan (born 2 February 1944 in Zhongliao, Nantou, Taiwan), is the founder of Weixinism, also known as Weixin Shengjiao, one of the largest Taiwanese new religious movements. \nHe is also the author of several books on I Ching and Feng Shui and a prolific painter.\n\nChang Yi-Jui was born in 2 February 1944 in Zhongliao Township, Nantou County, Taiwan. For the first thirty-eight years of his life, he was not particularly interested in religion, although he developed an early interest in the philosophical and practical wisdom of the traditional Chinese systems I Ching and Feng Shui.\nIn 1963, he graduated at the Land Survey Department of Kuang-Hwa Senior Industrial Vocational High School in Taichung City, Taiwan. He remained in the School as a teacher of Engineering Measurement. He was also the founder of Zhong Xin Measuring Ltd., known as the first company of land surveying in Taiwan.\nHis business career came to an unexpected halt in 1982, when Chang fell seriously ill. He attributed his seemingly miraculous recovery to a divine intervention, and decided from then on to consecrate his life to religion. He claimed to have received revelations from Guiguzi, a name indicating a book of military strategy written between the late Warring States period and the end of the Han Dynasty and by extension its real or mythological author, later deified in Chinese folk religion. Chang then went to a pilgrimage to Mount Dawu, in Taitung County, Taiwan, accompanied by some friends. On the mountain, he claimed to have received a new revelation. He reported that the Jade Emperor, a popular character in Chinese folk religion, admonished him “never to be selfish” and to “encourage people for self-cultivation.”\nIn 1983, Chang started putting his vow to devote his life to religion into practice. He opened a family hall called Yi Yao She in Taichung City, where he started teaching I Ching and offering divination services to the followers he had gathered. One year later, Yi Yao She was renamed Shennong Temple and Chang claimed to have received the Buddhist name and title “Grand Master Hun Yuan” by divine revelation. He claimed to be mystically united with the Bodhisattva Wang Chan Lao Zu, who had once incarnated on Earth as Guiguzi, and to receive regular revelations from him.\nIn 1987, the Martial law in Taiwan was lifted, and Grand Master Hun Yuan was allowed to expand its activities and eventually to legally register a movement known as Weixin Shengjiao, or Weixinism, literally “Sacred Teachings of the Heart (or Mind) Only.” The movement opened its new and larger headquarters in 1987 in Nantou County, where the Hsien Fo Temple was inaugurated. Eventually, it was followed by 42 branch temples, where religious rituals are performed and courses of I Ching and Feng Shui are offered on a regular basis. In 1993, Hun Yuan hold what he called the 99 Days Chanting Ceremony and taught his first research classes on I Ching and Feng Shui. The book \"Feng Shui World View\", published in 1995, made Hun Yuan known to a larger public in Taiwan. In the same year, the convention “Propagating the Dharma of Feng Shui for the Home” at Linkou Stadium, Taipei, drew a crowd of 36,000.\n\nHun Yuan is primarily known as the founder and leader of Weixinism or Weixin Shengjiao, a Taiwanese new religion with a presence among the Chinese diaspora in other countries and with some Western followers in the United States, Canada, Australia, and Spain. Its global membership is \"about 300,000, with a larger audience estimated by Taiwan's Ministry of Internal Affairs at 1,000,000\". Weixin Shengjiao has been described as an institutionalization of traditional Chinese folk religion, centered on the worship of Guiguzi and of the Three Chinese Ancestors, the Yellow Emperor, Yandi and Chiyou, and on the divulgation of I Ching and Feng Shui as systems of practical and not only philosophical wisdom.\nThe canon of Weixin Shengjiao includes scriptures of Buddhism, Confucianism, and Taoism, as well as the large corpus of revelations Hun Yuan claims to receive from Guiguzi, collected in the sixteen volumes of the \"Apocalypse Sutra\". All the speeches and writings, and in fact all the daily utterances, of Hun Yuan, are collected in the \"Weixin Dao Zang\", which, by 2017, had reached the extraordinary size of more than 18,000 volumes. In addition, Hun Yuan is the author of several volumes popularizing I Ching and Feng Shui. One, collecting his Yang House Feng Shui Lectures, was translated into English in 2016.\n\nIn 1996, Hun Yuan founded a continuing education facility known as I Ching University, while the parallel institution Weixin College served as an academic facility for the study of I Ching and Feng Shui and was accredited as a university by the Ministry of Education (Taiwan) in 2013. In 2015, I Ching University stated that, from its foundation, it had completed twenty-three year-long courses, and the number of its students had exceeded sixty thousand. In 2016, I Ching University started acknowledging “\"pingxin\" virtuous fellows,” i.e students who had studied there for 24 years.\n\nIn 1997, Hun Yuan started what would become a long career as teacher of I Ching and Feng Shui via television. He became a familiar face for Taiwanese TV viewers, and in 1998 presented his ideas overseas through his first international tour. The movement claimed that the number of television programs and series of lectures on Feng Shui by Hun Yuan airing in different countries around the world in 2017 exceeded five hundred.\n\nIn 1996, Hun Yuan founded the “Pure Land in This World Chinese Merit Foundation.” Its original aim was to propagate I Ching and Feng Shui. In 1999, however, the devastating 1999 Jiji earthquake struck Taiwan. Hun Yuan mobilized the members of the Foundation and sent them to the afflicted areas. They taught how to rebuild anti-seismic public buildings and homes by using the principles of Feng Shui, but also provided help to affected families. The movement reported that the number of Taiwanese families that received help from the Foundation exceeded three thousand. In 2012, the name of the Foundation was changed to “Weixin Shengjiao Merit Foundation.” According to the movement, the current number of members is around sixty thousand.\n\nIn 2001,with the stated aim of improving the relationships between Taiwan and China, Hun Yuan organized in Taipei what became the first of a series of annual conferences on Guiguzi, featuring scholars from the two sides of the Taiwan Strait and reached an agreement with the authorities of the Chinese province of Henan to build there a Town of Chinese Culture, or City of Eight Trigrams (a name derived from the I Ching), featuring several temples.\nIn 2003, Hun Yuan established the Gui Gu Zi Academic and Research Association, whose stated aim is to trace the origins and foundations of Chinese culture. In particular, the Association compiled a list of 15,615 Chinese family clan names, 917 names of emperors who ruled in China, and 3,762 wars which plagued Chinese history. \nFor Hun Yuan, collecting these names does not serve a purely scholarly purpose but also a religious one. In 2004, he organized in the Linkou Stadium, Taipei, the first “Unified Ancestor Worship Ceremony for Chinese in the 21st Century,” honoring all the ancestors of the Chinese peoples, particularly those who had died in different wars. Crowds in excess of 30,000 attend these ceremonies held each year on January 1. Presidents of the republic of Taiwan and other senior political leaders have also participated in the ceremonies.\nIn 2012, Wu Ching-ji, then Taiwan’s Minister of the Education, announced during a conference on Feng Shui that Hun Yuan had been nominated as a candidate for the 2013 Nobel Peace Prize (which was finally awarded to the Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons).\n\nHun Yuan is also a prolific painter. Although rooted in the tradition of Chinese calligraphy and ink wash painting, his large works, often depicting dragons, are realized in a distinctive style. He often demonstrates publicly how they are produced in a few seconds with a single brush stroke applying black ink to Xuan paper. All branch temples of Weixin Shengjiao store paintings by Hun Yuan, but the largest collection is now at Weixin Museum, a museum that is part of Weixin Shengjiao’s headquarters in Nantou County. Critics, and the movement itself. regard as most significant the 108 pieces of dragon-shaped \"ruyi\" (\"auspicious,\" literally “everything goes as one wishes”) calligraphy, including the frequently reproduced \"The Stable Nation of the Golden Dragon\".\nHun Yuan has also produced designs for building and gardens. The movement reported that the landscape design of the Hsien Fo Temple was based on a project by Hun Yuan, who insisted that the layout of the buildings should correspond with the shape of the nearby mountains to create a feeling of harmonious unity, based on both Feng Shui and Zen. According to the movement, Hun Yuan also supplied designs for the two Eight Trigrams Holy City that Weixin Shengjiao is building in Henan, China and in Nantou County, Taiwan.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28979", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28979", "title": "Hyoscine", "text": "Hyoscine\n\nHyoscine, also known as scopolamine, is a medication used to treat motion sickness and postoperative nausea and vomiting. It is also sometimes used before surgery to decrease saliva. When used by injection, effects begin after about 20 minutes and last for up to 8 hours. It may also be used by mouth and as a skin patch.\nCommon side effects include sleepiness, blurred vision, dilated pupils, and dry mouth. It is not recommended in people with glaucoma or bowel obstruction. It is unclear if use during pregnancy is safe; however, it appears to be safe during breastfeeding. Hyoscine is in the antimuscarinic family of medications and works by blocking some of the effects of acetylcholine within the nervous system.\nHyoscine was first written about in 1881 and started to be used for anesthesia around 1900. It is on the WHO Model List of Essential Medicines, the most effective and safe medicines needed in a health system. Hyoscine is produced from plants of the nightshade family. The name \"scopolamine\" is derived from one type of nightshade known as \"Scopolia\" while the name \"hyoscine\" is derived from another type known as \"Hyoscyamus niger\".\n\nHyoscine has a number of uses in medicine, where it is used to treat the following:\nIt is sometimes used as a premedication (especially to reduce respiratory tract secretions) to surgery, mostly commonly by injection.\n\nHyoscine crosses the placenta and is a United States pregnancy category C and Australian Category B1 medication, meaning a risk to the fetus cannot be ruled out. Sufficient studies in women and animals are not available to rule out harm, but existing studies have not shown increased risk. Drugs should be given only if the potential benefits justify the potential risk to the fetus. It may cause respiratory depression and/or neonatal hemorrhage when used during pregnancy. Transdermal hyoscine has been used as an adjunct to epidural anesthesia for Caesarean delivery without adverse CNS effects on the newborn. Except when used prior to Caesarean section, it should only be used during pregnancy if the benefit to the mother outweighs the potential risk to the fetus.\n\nHyoscine enters breast milk by secretion. Although no human studies exist to document the safety of hyoscine while nursing, the manufacturer recommends that caution be taken if hyoscine is administered to a breastfeeding woman.\n\nThe likelihood of experiencing adverse effects from hyoscine is increased in the elderly relative to younger people. This phenomenon is especially true for older people who are also on several other medications. It is recommended that hyoscine use should be avoided in this age group because of these potent anticholinergic adverse effects.\n\nAdverse effect incidence:\n\nUncommon (0.1–1% incidence) adverse effects include:\n\nRare (<0.1% incidence) adverse effects include:\n\nUnknown frequency adverse effects include:\n\nPhysostigmine is a cholinergic drug that readily crosses the blood-brain barrier, and has been used as an antidote to treat the central nervous system depression symptoms of a hyoscine overdose. Other than this supportive treatment, gastric lavage and induced emesis (vomiting) are usually recommended as treatments for oral overdoses. The symptoms of overdose include:\n\nDue to interactions with metabolism of other drugs, hyoscine can cause significant unwanted side effects when taken with other medications. Specific attention should be paid to other medications in the same pharmacologic class as hyoscine, also known as anticholinergics. The following medications could potentially interact with the metabolism of hyoscine: analgesics/pain medications, ethanol, zolpidem, thiazide diuretics, buprenorphine, anticholinergic drugs such as tiotropium, etc.\n\nHyoscine can be taken by mouth, subcutaneously, ophthalmically and intravenously, as well as via a transdermal patch. The transdermal patch (\"e.g.,\" Transderm Scōp) for prevention of nausea and motion sickness employs hyoscine base, and is effective for up to three days. The oral, ophthalmic, and intravenous forms have shorter half-lives and are usually found in the form hyoscine hydrobromide (for example in Scopace, soluble tablets or Donnatal).\n\nNASA is currently developing a nasal administration method. With a precise dosage, the NASA spray formulation has been shown to work faster and more reliably than the oral form.\n\nAlthough it is usually referred to as a nonspecific antimuscarinic, there is indirect evidence for m1-receptor subtype specificity.\n\nHyoscine is among the secondary metabolites of plants from Solanaceae (nightshade) family of plants, such as henbane, jimson weed (\"Datura\"), angel's trumpets (\"Brugmansia\"), and corkwood (\"Duboisia\").\n\nThe biosynthesis of hyoscine begins with the decarboxylation of L-ornithine to putrescine by ornithine decarboxylase. Putrescine is methylated to N-methylputrescine by putrescine N-methyltransferase.\n\nA putrescine oxidase that specifically recognizes methylated putrescine catalyzes the deamination of this compound to 4-methylaminobutanal, which then undergoes a spontaneous ring formation to N-methyl-pyrrolium cation. In the next step, the pyrrolium cation condenses with acetoacetic acid yielding hygrine. No enzymatic activity could be demonstrated to catalyze this reaction. Hygrine further rearranges to tropinone.\n\nSubsequently, tropinone reductase I converts tropinone to tropine which condenses with phenylalanine-derived phenyllactate to littorine. A cytochrome P450 classified as Cyp80F1 oxidizes and rearranges littorine to hyoscyamine aldehyde. In the final step, hyoscyamine undergoes epoxidation catalyzed by 6beta-hydroxyhyoscyamine epoxidase yielding hyoscine.\nOne of the earlier alkaloids isolated from plant sources, hyoscine has been in use in its purified forms (such as various salts, including hydrochloride, hydrobromide, hydroiodide and sulfate), since its isolation by the German scientist Albert Ladenburg in 1880, and as various preparations from its plant-based form since antiquity and perhaps prehistoric times. Following the description of the structure and activity of hyoscine by Ladenburg, the search for synthetic analogues of and methods for total synthesis of hyoscine and/or atropine in the 1930s and 1940s resulted in the discovery of diphenhydramine, an early antihistamine and the prototype of its chemical subclass of these drugs, and pethidine, the first fully synthetic opioid analgesic, known as Dolatin and Demerol amongst many other trade names.\n\nIn 1899, a Dr. Schneiderlin recommended the use of hyoscine and morphine for surgical anaesthesia and it started to be used for purpose, sporadically. The use of this combination in obstetric anesthesiology, was first proposed by Richard von Steinbuchel in 1902 then was picked up and further developed by Carl Gauss in Freiburg, Germany starting in 1903. The method came to be known as \"Dämmerschlaf\" (\"twilight sleep\") or the \"Freiburg method\". It spread rather slowly, and different clinics experimented with different dosages and ingredients; in 1915 The Canadian Medical Association Journal reported that \"the method [was] really still in a state of development\". It remained widely used in the US until the 1960s, when growing chemophobia and a desire for more natural childbirth led to its abandonment.\n\n\"Hyoscine hydrobromide\" is the international nonproprietary name, and \"scopolamine hydrobromide\" is the United States Adopted Name. Other names include \"levo-duboisine\", \"devil's breath\" and \"burundanga\".\n\nWhile it has been occasionally used recreationally for its hallucinogenic properties, the experiences are often unpleasant, mentally and physically. It is also physically dangerous, so repeated use is rare.\n\nIn June 2008, more than 20 people were hospitalized with psychosis in Norway after ingesting counterfeit Rohypnol tablets containing hyoscine.\n\nIn January 2018, 9 individuals were hospitalised in Perth, Western Australia, after reportedly ingesting hyoscine.\n\nThe effects of hyoscine were studied for use as a truth serum in interrogations in the early 20th century, but because of the side effects, investigations were dropped. In 2009, it was proven that the Czechoslovak state security secret police had used hyoscine at least three times to obtain confessions from alleged antistate dissidents.\n\nIn 1910, hyoscine was detected in the remains believed to be those of Cora Crippen, wife of Dr. Hawley Harvey Crippen, and was accepted at the time as the cause of her death, since her husband was known to have bought some at the start of the year.\n\nThe drug is known to produce loss of memory following exposure and sleepiness, similar to the effect of benzodiazepines or alcohol poisoning, which affects the ability of a person to resist criminal aggression. A travel advisory published by the United States Department of State in 2012 stated:One common and particularly dangerous method that criminals use in order to rob a victim is through the use of drugs. The most common [in Colombia] has been hyoscine. Unofficial estimates put the number of annual hyoscine incidents in Colombia at approximately 50,000. Hyoscine can render a victim unconscious for 24 hours or more. In large doses, it can cause respiratory failure and death. It is most often administered in liquid or powder form in foods and beverages. The majority of these incidents occur in night clubs and bars, and usually men, perceived to be wealthy, are targeted by young, attractive women. To avoid becoming a victim of hyoscine, one should never accept food or beverages offered by strangers or new acquaintances or leave food or beverages unattended. Victims of hyoscine or other drugs should seek immediate medical attention.\n\nBeside robberies it is also allegedly involved in express kidnappings and sexual assault. The \"Hospital Clínic\" in Barcelona introduced a special protocol in 2008 to help medical workers identify cases, while Madrid hospitals adopted a similar working document in February 2015. However, \"Hospital Clínic\" has found little scientific evidence to support this use and relies on the victims' stories to reach any conclusion. Although poisoning by hyoscine appears quite often in the media as an aid for raping, kidnapping, killing or robbery, the effects of this drug and the way it is applied by criminals (added to drinks, transdermal injection, on playing cards and papers etc.) are often exaggerated, especially the transdermal uses, as the dose that can be absorbed by the skin is too low to have any effect (hyoscine transdermal patches must be used for hours to days).\n\nThe name \"burundanga\" derives from being an extract of the \"brugmansia\" plant.\n\nAbout one in five emergency room admissions for poisoning in Bogotá, Colombia, have been attributed to hyoscine. Most commonly, the victim has been poisoned by a robber who gave the victim a scopolamine-laced beverage, in the hope that the victim would become unconscious or unable to effectively resist the robbery.\n\nHyoscine has been used as a research tool to study the involvement of acetylcholine in cognition. Results in primates suggest that acetylcholine is involved in the encoding of new information into long term memory. Hyoscine has also been investigated as a rapid-onset antidepressant with a number of small studies finding positive results.\n\n"}
{"id": "54115570", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54115570", "title": "International Bible Training Institute", "text": "International Bible Training Institute\n\nThe International Bible Training Institute (IBTI) is an evangelical, Pentecostal Bible college based in Burgess Hill, West Sussex, United Kingdom. It is a residential college and has been involved with Christian mission work and relief work abroad since it was founded by Fred H. Squire in 1947. The college offers three types of Biblical studies. The current directors are John and Eliana Whyte.\n\nAs a Bible college, the IBTI is run as a charity and accredited by ASIC, which lists the IBTI as being one of their “Premiere Colleges”. Two of the study courses in Applied Theology offered by the IBTI are accredited by NCFE.\n\nThe college was started the college in 1947 by evangelist Fred H. Squire in the aftermath of the Second World War. Squire believed people's biggest need was faith in Jesus Christ. Following the first World Pentecostal Conference organised by the Pentecostal World Fellowship in 1947 in Zurich, Squire began the project. In the same year, the first students from England, Italy, Holland, Indonesia and Switzerland were taken in free of charge for two years. They came .\n\nAs the number of students increased annually, in 1947 it moved from Leamington Spa to Hook Place in Burgess Hill where it is still based today. The IBTI became increasingly involved with relief work, in Europe especially during the postwar reconstruction and the Cold War, but later expanding its mission work to countries in Africa and other parts of the world.\n\nEvery summer from 1952 to 1999, the IBTI ran a ten-day camp convention to raise awareness for missions and funds for the college, and ministering to hundreds of people who came to IBTI for the occasion.\n\nIn 1974, the Field Office of the European Evangelistic Society was located at the IBTI, which later became the Administrative Offices of the AOG Action Europe branch of Missions. Eventually, the whole department of AOG Overseas Missions was based at IBTI, with John P. Wildrianne fulfilling the role as AOG Mission Director for many years. Today the IBTI still cooperates with AOG GB (page/website) as well as other denominations and churches.\n\nDuring 1976, the IBTI's leaders (John P. Wildrianne and Jean-Jacques Zbinden) established the “Burgess Hill Pentecostal Church” which moved to a different venue in the town centre of Burgess Hill once it grew beyond the capacity of the IBTI chapel. It later became Mid-Sussex Christian Centre and is now called “Centre Church”.\n\nThe college is midway through building a new facility which will include new accommodation for students, and provide a hub for networking between students, staff and the community, a larger chapel, and an IT and media room.\n\nThe IBTI offers three courses in Applied Theology which differ: in duration, the extent of modules covered and the award issued after completion. None of the IBTI awards are for a nationally regulated qualification, they are internal awards. Applied Theology is a sub-field of practical theology.\n\n"}
{"id": "28060502", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28060502", "title": "Irreligion in France", "text": "Irreligion in France\n\nIrreligion and atheism have a long history and a large demographic constitution in France, with the advancement of atheism and the deprecation of theistic religion dating back as far as the French Revolution. In 2015, according to estimates, at least 29% of the country's population identifies as atheists and 63% identifies as non-religious.\n\nThe word \"atheism\" was derived from the French \"\" in about 1587.\n\nThe term \"atheist\" (from Fr. \"\"), in the sense of \"one who denies or disbelieves the existence of God\", predates \"atheism\" in English, being first attested in about 1571.\n\nUntil the Enlightenment, those who embraced a non-theistic belief were regarded as being immoral or amoral, and profession of atheism was considered to be a punishable crime.\n\nScholar Étienne Dolet was strangled and burnt in 1546 on a charge of atheism; in 1766, the French nobleman François-Jean de la Barre, was tortured, beheaded, and his body burned for alleged vandalism of a crucifix, a case that became celebrated because Voltaire tried unsuccessfully to have the sentence reversed.\n\nAmong those accused of atheism was Denis Diderot (1713–1784), one of the Enlightenment's most prominent \"philosophes\", and editor-in-chief of the Encyclopédie, which sought to challenge religious, particularly Catholic, dogma: \"Reason is to the estimation of the \"philosophe\" what grace is to the Christian\", he wrote. \"Grace determines the Christian's action; reason the \"philosophe's\"\". Diderot was briefly imprisoned for his writing, some of which was banned and burned.\n\nThe French Revolution marked a turning point for the ascendancy of atheism to a preeminent position as a cognitive and cultural stance against papal supremacy and the Holy Roman Empire across Europe and throughout the world. Now known as the atheist Cult of Reason ideology, established by Jacques Hébert, Pierre Gaspard Chaumette and their supporters and intended as a replacement for Christianity, and was replete with ceremonious destruction of Christian relics, conversion of churches into Temples of Reason and the personification of Reason as a goddess; it also held such festivities as the Festival of Reason (or Festival of Liberty), dated on 10 November (20 Brumaire) 1793. The Cult of Reason, which strongly advocated the destruction of Christian and theistic cultural influences by force, was opposed to Robespierre's Cult of the Supreme Being, which was considered a deistic cult which referred back to the theism of Christianity. The Cult of Reason was finally ended by Robespierre and the Committee of Public Safety through their execution of Hébert and several of his followers on 24 March 1794, having ascended just seven months earlier.\n\nEven after the Thermidorean Reaction ended the revolutionary anti-clerical manifestations, the movement for secularization continued during the Napoleonic era and onward. French atheists participated in the increasingly popular political movements which sought for greater economic and political parity in society, the most notable being the French Revolution of 1848 and the Paris Commune of 1871.\n\nIn 1877, the Grand Orient de France (GOdF), the largest Masonic body, at the instigation of the Protestant priest Frédéric Desmons, allowed those who had no belief in a Supreme being to be admitted as members, resulting in an ongoing schism between the GOdF and the United Grand Lodge of England (and their respective affiliated lodges) due to the departure of the GOdF from the theistic requirement of belief in a Supreme Being for all members.\n\nIn 1905, the law on the Separation of the State and the Church was passed, establishing state secularism in the country and preventing interaction between religious communities and the government, except through religious organizations. Atheists were among the many French citizens put to death and tortured in the concentration camps run by the German Nazi regime.\n\nFollowing the war, atheists and secular humanists became increasingly involved in defining and interpreting the existence of humanity and the individual, among them being existentialist writer and philosopher Jean-Paul Sartre.\n\nThe 21st century, beginning with the advent of the American-led War on Terror, has enlivened the debate over the issue of religious liberty, expression and atheistic rationalism in France.\n\nTo this day, the GOdF (Grand Orient de France) maintains a strongly secular stance in the public eye and has been frequently accused of a strong anti-Christian position by Roman Catholic apologists and clergy.\n\nIn 2010, in a Eurobarometer poll, 27% of respondents answered \"I believe there is a God\", 27% answered \"I believe there is some sort of spirit or life force\", and 40% answered \"I don't believe there is any sort of spirit, God or life force\".\n\nPresident François Hollande is an atheist despite his Catholic upbringing. President Emmanuel Macron is agnostic, although he converted to Catholicism as a teenager. Mayor of Paris Anne Hidalgo is openly and an outspoken Atheist.\n"}
{"id": "58898934", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58898934", "title": "Ismul Azam", "text": "Ismul Azam\n\nAl-Ismul Azam (Arabic: الاسم الأعظم) or Al-Ism al-A'zam (also known as \"Ismullah-al-Akbar\" (Arabic: اسم الله الأکبر),) is considered in Islam to be the greatest name for Allah that only the prophets and Imams were aware of. For instance, the fifth Imam of Shia Islam, Muhammad al-Baqir mentioned that: I've said true if I swear to Allah that Ismul Azam is available in Dua Simat.\n\nSome names possess general meanings and can be applied instead of several other names, \"... as far as will be ended to a/the name that there won't be another name(s) higher than that, and is called Esm-A'zam or Ismullah al-Akbar\" (of course Ismullah al-Akbar has been applied to another meaning, too).\n\nIsmul A'zam is believed to have a powerful effect in the act of blessing. According to Islamic hadiths, whoever calls Allah using this term, his or her dua will be granted.\n\n"}
{"id": "12828644", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12828644", "title": "Jack Fiddler", "text": "Jack Fiddler\n\nJack Fiddler, also known as Zhauwuno-geezhigo-gaubow (from the Oji-Cree: \"Zhaawano-giizhigo-gaabaw\" meaning \"He who stands in the southern sky\") and as Maisaninnine or Mesnawetheno (in Swampy Cree meaning \"Stylish man\") (c. 1839-September 30, 1907) was an \"ogimaa\" (chief and shaman) of the Sucker doodem among the Anishinaabe in what is now northwestern Ontario. His arrest in 1906 for the alleged murder of a wendigo and his suicide before trial marked the beginning of the imposition of Canadian law on the Sucker People. Until then, Fiddler's people had been among the last aboriginal peoples living in North America completely under their own law and custom.\n\nZhauwuno-geezhigo-gaubow was born in the boreal forests of the upper Severn River near Sandy Lake, Deer Lake, and North Spirit Lake in the 1830s or 1840s. His father Peemeecheekag (Porcupine [Standing] Sideways), a mysterious figure from the east who was adopted into the Sucker clan during the previous century, was a respected political and spiritual leader. The Suckers were not the only group in the area, as they were allied with the Pelican and Sturgeon clans, and had contact with the Cranes as well. The clans spoke a unique form of the Oji-Cree dialect of the Anishinaabe language and had contact with the Ojibwa at Lake Winnipeg and the Oji-Cree farther to the north and east. \n\nZhauwuno-geezhigo-gaubow grew up during a period of difficulty. Over-trapping for the fur trade of the previous centuries had left the boreal forests of Northern Ontario depleted of animals. With declining numbers of furs, lower demand abroad, and more opportunities in the west, the Hudson's Bay Company (HBC) abandoned their post at Island Lake for much of the early 19th century, forcing the Suckers to travel to Big Trout Lake or Little Grand Rapids for trade. As a young man, Zhauwuno-geezhigo-gaubow likely worked on the York boats bringing furs to York Factory.\n\nBy the 1860s, the number of fur-bearing animals increased enough for the HBC to re-open the Island Lake post, and Zhauwuno-geezhigo-gaubow emerged as one of the leaders of the Sucker people. At his brief visits at the posts, he developed the ability to fiddle and built quality instruments. HBC traders frequently gave English nicknames to individual Natives and designated whole clans by the name of a primary leader or an arbitrary English surname. Thus, the Sturgeons were known to traders (and later Canadian authorities) by the surname Rae or Mamakeesick, the Pelicans after their leader Meekis, and the Cranes after their leaders Kakegamic and Kakepetum. Zhauwuno-geezhigo-gaubow and his brother Pesequan became Jack and Joseph Fiddler, and the Suckers often appear in the records as the Fiddler tribe.\n\nJack Fiddler took five wives: Kakakwesic, Nakwasasive, Nocome, Kaopasanakitiyat, and Kayakatopicicikec and had 13 children. Polygamy was common, out of necessity if for no other reason, as young men died often in the dangers of the times.\n\nLike his father before him, Jack Fiddler became a famous shaman for his alleged ability to conjure animals and protect his people from spells. Most importantly to the people of the region, he could allegedly successfully defeat the wendigo, a cannibalistic spirit that would possess people during all-too-frequent bouts of famine and disease. In his life, Jack Fiddler claimed to have defeated fourteen wendigos. Apparently some were sent against his people by enemy shamans, and others were members of his own band who were taken with an insatiable, incurable desire to eat human flesh. In the latter case, Fiddler was usually asked by family members to kill a very sick loved one before they turned wendigo. In some cases, the \"Wendigo\" him or herself would ask to be euthanized according to the necessary rites. Fiddler's own brother, Peter Flett, was killed after turning wendigo when the food ran out on a trading expedition. \n\nHBC traders and Cree and missionaries were well aware of the Wendigo legend, though they often explained it as mental illness or superstition. Regardless, several incidents of people turning wendigo and eating human flesh are documented in the records of the company. Jack Fiddler's reputation also grew among these groups, and he was approached multiple times by Cree ministers at Island Lake and asked to bring Christianity to his people. Though he respectfully heard their requests, Fiddler did not convert. By the beginning of the 20th century, the Sucker people were among the only Indigenous people in North America living in a traditional manner with almost no government imposition on legal and religious matters.\n\nIn early 1907, two members of the North-West Mounted Police visiting Island Lake heard of Jack Fiddler's power against the wendigo from Norman Rae, an in-law of the Fiddlers. Seeking to introduce Canadian law in the North, the Mounties went to the Sucker camp at Deer Lake and arrested Jack and Joseph Fiddler for murder. Before leaving, they took an eyewitness and declared that each man must give up any extra wives. For most of the Sucker people, the Mounties were the first whites they had ever seen.\n\nThe elderly brothers were charged with murdering Wahsakapeequay, Joseph's daughter-in-law, the year before. They were held at Norway House to await trial. Meanwhile, newspapers across Canada picked up the story and printed sensational headlines of murder and devil-worship. Across the country, people demanded convictions, while the police conducting the trial saw an opportunity for fame and advancement.\n\nOn September 30, Jack Fiddler escaped captivity during a walk outside. He hanged himself nearby and was found dead later in the day.\n\nJoseph Fiddler still went to trial, however. Angus Rae, the eyewitness, testified that Wahsakapeequay was killed while in deep pain and incurably sick according to the custom of the people who were not aware of Canadian law. Pressed on the wendigo issue, Rae admitted that it was a belief among his people and that Jack and Joseph were the ones who were usually asked to euthanize the very sick and prevent wendigos. Despite some other unreliable testimony from Rae, and the pleas of missionaries and HBC traders, Joseph was convicted and sentenced to death by Aylesworth Perry, the stipendary magistrate. Further appeals secured his release, but the order came three days after his death in 1909.\n\nWithout their most prominent leaders, the people of the upper Severn River had no choice but to accept government rule. Robert Fiddler, Jack's son, signed an addition to Treaty 5 as \"chief of the Deer Lake Band\" in 1910 and chose to settle at Deer Lake. Later, several families including the Fiddlers, moved to Sandy Lake and became part of Treaty 9. \n\nToday, most of the descendants of Jack Fiddler live in the Sandy Lake First Nation with others at the Deer Lake First Nation, and North Spirit Lake First Nation in Ontario, and the three reserves at Island Lake in Manitoba.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28703544", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28703544", "title": "Jesus in the Talmud", "text": "Jesus in the Talmud\n\nJesus in the Talmud refers to passages in the Talmud which are believed by some scholars to be references to Jesus. The name used in the Talmud is \"Yeshu\", the Aramaic form of the Hebrew name \"Yeshua\".\nThe identification of Yeshu as Jesus is problematic. For example, the Talmud mentions Yeshu ben Pandera/ben Stada's stepfather, Pappos ben Yehuda, speaking with Rabbi Akiva, who was executed at the climax of the Bar Kokhba revolt in 135 CE. Furthermore, Yeshu the Pharisee student is described as being a student of the second-century BCE nasi Joshua ben Perachiah, as well as being among the exiled Pharisees returning to Israel following their persecution by John Hyrcanus, an event which occurred in 74 BC. Additionally, Yeshu the sorcerer was executed by the royal government which lost legal authority in 63 BC. These events would place the lifetime of either Yeshu decades before or after the birth and death of Jesus. Still, there are numerous other passages pertaining to an individual named \"Yeshu\" that either don't provide a specific time period or else specify a time where it is reasonable to assume mentioning of Jesus would even be possible (take for example a notable passage, Gittin 57a mentioning the nobleman Onkelos conjuring the tormented spirit of \"Yeshu\" – Onkelos lived more than a century after Jesus, thus making it possible the Yeshu mentioned could indeed be Jesus, though the likelihood of this is still questionable) still opening the possibility that whichever Yeshu mentioned might be Jesus.\n\nThe first Christian censorship of the Talmud happened in the year 521. However, far better documented censorship began during the disputations of the Middle Ages. Advocates for the Catholic Church alleged that the Talmud contained blasphemous references to Jesus and his mother, Mary. Jewish apologists during the disputations said there were no references to Jesus in the Talmud. They claimed Joshua was a common Jewish name, along with its derivations, and that the citations referred to individuals other than Jesus. The disputations led to many of the references being removed (censored) from subsequent editions of the Talmud.\n\nIn the modern era there has been a variance of views among scholars of the possible references to Jesus in the Talmud, depending partly on presuppositions as to the extent to which the ancient rabbis were preoccupied with Jesus and Christianity. This range of views among modern scholars on the subject has been described as a range from \"minimalists\" who see few passages with reference to Jesus, to \"maximalists\" who see many passages having reference to Jesus. These terms \"minimalist\" and \"maximalist\" are not unique to discussion of the Talmud text; they are also used in discussion of academic debate on other aspects of Jewish vs. Christian and Christian vs. Jewish contact and polemic in the early centuries of Christianity, such as the \"Adversus Iudaeos\" genre. \"Minimalists\" include Jacob Z. Lauterbach (1951) (\"who recognize[d] only relatively few passages that actually have Jesus in mind\"), while \"maximalists\" include Herford (1903), (who concluded that most of the references related to Jesus, but were non-historical oral traditions which circulated among Jews), and Schäfer (2007) (who concluded that the passages were parodies of parallel stories about Jesus in the New Testament incorporated into the Talmud in the 3rd and 4th centuries that illustrate the inter-sect rivalry between Judaism and nascent Christianity).\n\nSome editions of the Talmud are missing some of the references, which were removed either by Christian censors starting in the 13th century, or by Jews themselves due to fear of antisemitic reprisals, or some were possibly lost by negligence or accident. However, most modern editions published since the early 20th century have restored most of the references.\n\nDuring the Middle Ages a series of debates on Judaism were staged by the Christian church – including the Disputation of Paris, the Disputation of Barcelona, and Disputation of Tortosa – and during those disputations, Jewish converts to Christianity, such as Pablo Christiani and Nicholas Donin claimed the Talmud contained insulting references to Jesus. An early work describing Jesus in the Talmud was \"Pugio Fidei\" (\"Dagger of Faith\") (c. 1280) by the Catalan Dominican Ramón Martí, a Jewish convert to Christianity. In 1681 Johann Christoph Wagenseil translated and published a collection of anti-Christian polemics from Jewish sources, with the title \"Tela Ignea Satanæ, sive Arcani et Horribiles Judæorum Adversus Christum, Deum, et Christianam Religionem Libri\" (\"Flaming Arrows of Satan, that is, the secret and horrible books of the Jews against Christ, God, and the Christian religion\") which discussed Jesus in the Talmud. The first book devoted solely to the topic of Jesus in the Talmud was the Latin work \"Jesus in Talmude\" published in 1699 by Rudolf Martin Meelführer, a student of Wagenseil at Altdorf. In 1700, Johann Andreas Eisenmenger published \"Entdecktes Judenthum\" (\"Judaism Unmasked\"), which included descriptions of Jesus in the Talmud, and which would become the basis of much anti-Semitic literature in later centuries such as \"The Talmud Unmasked\" written in 1892 by Justinas Bonaventure Pranaitis.\n\nStarting in the 20th century the topic of Jesus in Judaic literature became subject to more unbiased, scholarly research, such as \"Das Leben Jesu nach jüdischen Quellen\" written in 1902 by Samuel Krauss, which was the first scholarly analysis of the Judaic anti-Christian polemic \"Toledot Yeshu\" (\"The Biography of Jesus\"). In 1903, Unitarian scholar R. Travers Herford wrote \"Christianity in Talmud and Midrash\", which became the standard work on the topic in the Christian world, and he concluded that a large number of references referred to Jesus, not as a historical individual, but instead as the messiah of Christianity. In 1910, Hermann Strack wrote \"Jesus, die Häretiker und die Christen nach den ältesten jüdischen Angaben\", which found no evidence of a historical Jesus in the Talmud. In 1922 Joseph Klausner wrote \"Yeshu ha-Notzri\" (\"Jesus of Nazareth\") which concluded that \"the evidence [for a historical Jesus] in the Talmud is scanty and does not contribute much to our knowledge of the historical Jesus; much of it is legendary and reflects the Jewish attempt to counter Christian claims and reproaches\" but he did conclude some material was historically reliable. In 1950 Morris Goldstein wrote \"Jesus in the Jewish Tradition\", including sections on the Toledoth Yeshu. In 1951, Jacob Z. Lauterbach wrote the essay \"Jesus in the Talmud\". In 1978 Johann Maier wrote \"Jesus von Nazareth in der talmudischen Überlieferung\", in which he concludes that there is virtually no evidence of the historical Jesus in the Talmud, and that the references to Jesus were \"legendary\" and probably added late in the Talmudic era \"as a reaction to Christian provocations\". In 2007, Peter Schäfer wrote \"Jesus in the Talmud\" in which he tried to find a middle ground between \"anti-Jewish Christian\" and \"apologetic Jewish\" interpretations. He concluded that the references to Jesus (as the messiah of Christianity) were included in the early (3rd and 4th century) versions of the Talmud, and that they were parodies of New Testament narratives.\n\nIn the first few centuries CE, there were many sects of Judaism (such as Pharisees, Essenes, and Sadducees) each claiming to be the correct faith. Some scholars treat Christianity, during that era, referred to as Early Christianity, as simply one of many sects of Judaism. Some sects wrote polemics advocating their position, and occasionally disparaging rival sects. Some scholars view the depictions of Jesus in the Talmud as a manifestation of those inter-sect rivalries – thus the depictions can be read as polemics by the rabbinic authors of the Talmud which indirectly criticized the rival sect (Christianity), which was growing and becoming more dominant.\n\nPeter Schäfer concluded that the references were not from the early tannaitic period (1st and 2nd centuries) but rather from the 3rd and 4th centuries, during the amoraic period. He asserts that the references in the Babylonian Talmud were \"polemical counter-narratives that parody the New Testament stories, most notably the story of Jesus' birth and death\" and that the rabbinical authors were familiar with the Gospels (particularly the Gospel of John) in their form as the Diatessaron and the Peshitta, the New Testament of the Syrian Church. Schäfer argues that the message conveyed in the Talmud was a \"bold and self-confident\" assertion of correctness of Judaism, maintaining that \"there is no reason to feel ashamed because we rightfully executed a blasphemer and idolater.\"\n\nBy way of comparison the New Testament itself also documents conflict with rabbinical Judaism, for example in the John 8:41 charge \"We are not born of fornication.\" and \"Are we not right in saying that you are a Samaritan and have a demon?\" and in return in the description in Revelation of a \"synagogue of Satan.\"\n\nIn contrast to Peter Schäfer, Daniel J. Lasker suggests that the Talmudic stories about Jesus are not deliberate, provocative polemics, but instead demonstrate \"embryonic\" Jewish objections to Christianity which would later \"blossom into a full-scale Jewish polemical attack on Christianity [the Toledoth Yeshu]\".\n\nJeffrey Rubenstein has argued that the accounts in \"Chullin\" and \"Avodah Zarah\" (\"Idolatry\") reveal an ambivalent relationship between rabbis and Christianity. In his view the tosefta account reveals that at least some Jews believed Christians were true healers, but that the rabbis saw this belief as a major threat. Concerning the Babylonian Talmud account in \"Avoda Zarah\", Boyarin views Jacob of Sechania as a Christian preacher and understands Rabbi Eliezer's arrest for \"minuth\" (\"heresy\") as an arrest by the Romans for practising Christianity. When the Governor (the text uses the word for chief judge) interrogated him, the rabbi answered that he \"trusted the judge.\" Boyarin has suggested that this was the Jewish version of the Br'er Rabbit approach to domination, which he contrasts to the strategy of many early Christians, who proclaim their beliefs in spite of the consequences (i.e. martyrdom). Although Rabbi Eliezer was referring to God, the Governor interpreted him to be referring to the Governor himself, and freed the rabbi. According to them the account also reveals that there was greater contact between Christians and Jews in the 2nd century than commonly believed. They view the account of the teaching of Yeshu as an attempt to mock Christianity. According to Rubenstein, the structure of this teaching, in which a biblical prooftext is used to answer a question about biblical law, is common to both the rabbis and early Christians. The vulgar content, however, may have been used to parody Christian values. Boyarin considers the text to be an acknowledgment that rabbis often interacted with Christians, despite their doctrinal antipathy.\n\nBetween 1239 and 1775 the Roman Catholic Church at various times either forced the censoring of parts of the Talmud that were theologically problematic or the destruction of copies of the Talmud.\n\nDuring the Middle Ages a series of debates on Judaism were staged by the Roman Catholic – including the Disputation of Paris (1240), the Disputation of Barcelona (1263), and Disputation of Tortosa (1413–14) – and during those disputations, Jewish converts to Christianity, such as Nicholas Donin (in Paris) and Pablo Christiani (in Barcelona) claimed the Talmud contained insulting references to Jesus.\n\nDuring these disputations the representatives of the Jewish communities offered various defences to the charges of the Christian disputants. Notably influential on later Jewish responses was the defence of Yechiel of Paris (1240) that a passage about an individual named Yeshu in the Talmud was not a reference to the Christian Jesus, though at the same time Yechiel also conceded that another reference to Yeshu was. This has been described as the \"theory of two Jesuses\" though Berger (1998) notes that Yehiel in fact argues for three Jesuses. This defence featured again in later Jewish defences during the medieval period, such as that of Nachmanides at the Disputation of Barcelona, though others such as Profiat Duran at the Disputation of Tortosa did not follow this argument.\n\nAmy-Jill Levine notes that even today some rabbinical experts do not consider that the Talmud's account of Jesus' death is a reference to the Jesus of the New Testament. Gustaf Dalman (1922), Joachim Jeremias (1960), Mark Allen Powell (1998) and Roger T. Beckwith (2005) were also favourable to the view the Yeshu references in the Talmud were not to Jesus. Richard Bauckham considers Yeshu a legitimate, if rare, form of the name in use at the time, and writes that an ossuary bearing both the names \"Yeshu\" and \"Yeshua ben Yosef\" shows that it \"was not invented by the rabbis as a way of avoiding pronouncing the real name of Jesus of Nazareth\"\n\nNumerous times between 1239 and 1775 all copies of the Talmud were ordered destroyed. In 1280 following the Disputation of Barcelona the Talmud was order censored. Following the invention of the printing press, the Talmud was banned by the Pope. All printed editions of the Talmud, including the Basel Talmud and the Vilna Edition Shas, were censored. In 1559 the Talmud was placed on the Roman Index and banned. In 1564 under the Tridentine Index an expunged version of the Talmud was allowed. In 1592 the pope ordered all copies of the Talmud and other heretical writing destroyed expunged or not. The total prohibition would stay in place until 1775. Even then the censorship system would remain in force. As a result of these disputations many manuscript editions had references to Jesus removed or changed, and subsequent manuscripts sometimes omitted the passages entirely. Few copies would survive.\n\nIn the 20th century, new editions began restoring the censored material, such as in the 1935 English Soncino edition.\n\nStarting in the 13th century, manuscripts of the Talmud were sometimes altered in response to the criticisms made during the disputations, and in response to orders from the Christian church. Existing manuscripts were sometimes altered (for example, by erasure) and new manuscripts often omitted the passages entirely. Peter Schäfer compared several editions and documented some alterations as illustrated in the following table:\n\nBart Ehrman, and separately Mark Allan Powell, state that the Talmud references are quite late (hundreds of years) and give no historically reliable information about the teachings or actions of Jesus during his life. Ehrman clarifies that the name \"Son of Panthera\" (Roman who allegedly was the seducer of Mary) was a tradition, as scholars have long recognized, that represented an attack on the Christian view, that he was the son of a virgin. In Greek, the term for virgin is \"parthenos\", which is similar to \"panthera\", implying that \"son of panthera\" is a pun on \"son of a virgin\". The name \"ben Stada\", used for the same figure, is explained by Peter Schäfer as a reference to his mother's supposed adultery:\n\nPeter Schäfer states that there can be no doubt that the narrative of the execution of Jesus in the Talmud refers to Jesus of Nazareth, but states that the rabbinic literature in question are from a later Amoraic period and may have drawn on the Christian gospels, and may have been written as responses to them.\n\nScholars debate whether the Talmud provides any evidence of Jesus as a historical individual. Van Voorst (2000) describes this as a spectrum of opinion:\n\nThere are several Talmudic passages that are said to be referring to Jesus. The following are among those considered the most controversial, contested, and possibly the most notable.\n\nThere are still noticeable challenges to the identification of Yeshu as Jesus, as elsewhere in the Talmud his stepfather, Pappos ben Yehuda, is mentioned as being martyred with Rabbi Akiva and is himself mentioned as being among the Pharisees returning to Israel following their persecution by John Hyrcanus, which would place Yeshu's lifetime anywhere between 130 and 70 years before the birth of Jesus.\n\nSanhedrin 43a relates the trial and execution of a sorcerer named Jesus (\"Yeshu\" in Hebrew) and his five disciples. The sorcerer is stoned and hanged on the Eve of Passover.\n\nSanhedrin 107 tells of a Jesus (\"Yeshu\") \"offended his teacher by paying too much attention to the inn-keeper's wife. Jesus wished to be forgiven, but [his rabbi] was too slow to forgive him, and Jesus in despair went away and put up a brick [idol] and worshipped it.\"\n\nIn Gittin 56b and 57a, a story is told in which Onkelos summons up the spirit of a Yeshu who sought to harm Israel. He describes his punishment in the afterlife as boiling in excrement.\n\nSome scholars claim that the Hebrew name Yeshu is not a short form of the name Yeshua, but rather an acrostic for the Hebrew phrase \"may his name and memory be blotted out\" created by taking the first letter of the Hebrew words.\n\nIn addition, at the 1240 Disputation of Paris, Donin presented the allegation that the Talmud was blasphemous towards Mary, the mother of Jesus (\"Miriam\" in Hebrew), and this criticism has been repeated by many Christian sources. The texts cited by critics include Sanhedrin 67a, Sanhedrin 106a, and Shabbath 104b. However, the references to Mary are not specific, and some assert that they do not refer to Jesus' mother, or perhaps refer to Mary Magdalen.\n\nScholars have identified the following references in the Talmud that some conclude refer to Jesus:\n\n\"Sanhedrin 43a\" relates the trial and execution of Jesus and his five disciples. Here, Jesus is a sorcerer who has enticed other Jews to apostasy. A herald is sent to call for witnesses in his favour for forty days before his execution. No one comes forth and in the end he is stoned and hanged on the Eve of Passover. His five disciples, named Matai, Nekai, Netzer, Buni, and Todah are then tried. Word play is made on each of their names, and they are executed. It is mentioned that leniency could not be applied because of Jesus' influence with the royal government (\"malkhut\").\n\nScholars have identified passages in the Talmud and associated Talmudic texts that involve invoking Jesus' name, as the messiah of Christianity, in order to perform magical healing:\n\n\nScholars have identified passages that mention Jesus, as the messiah of Christianity, in the context of a Torah teacher:\n\n\n\"Sanhedrin 103a\" and \"Berachot 17b\" talk about a Yeshu ha-Nosri (Jesus of Nazareth) who \"burns his food in public\", possibly a reference to pagan sacrifices or a metaphor for apostasy. The account is discussing Manasseh the king of Judah infamous for having turned to idolatry and having persecuted the Jews (2 \"Kings\" 21). It is part of a larger discussion about three kings and four commoners excluded from paradise. These are also discussed in the Shulkhan Arukh where the son who burns his food is explicitly stated to be Manasseh. The passages identified by scholars in this context are:\n\n\nPassages in \"Sanhedrin 107b\" and \"Sotah 47a\" refer to an individual (Yeshu) that some scholars conclude is a reference to Jesus, regarded as the messiah of Christianity. In these passages, Jesus is described as a student of Joshua ben Perachiah (second half of the 2nd century BCE), and he (Jesus) was sent away for misinterpreting a word that in context should have been understood as referring to the Inn; he instead understood it to mean the innkeeper's wife (the same word can mean \"inn\" and \"hostess\"). His teacher said \"Here is a nice inn\", to which he replied \"Her eyes are crooked\", to which his teacher responded \"Evil one! Is this what you are occupied in?\" (Gazing at women was considered sinful.) After several returns for forgiveness he mistook Perachiah's signal to wait a moment as a signal of final rejection, and so he turned to idolatry. Some passages that have been identified by scholars as mentioning Jesus, as the messiah of Christianity, in this context include:\n\n\nThe full passage is:\nThe story ends by invoking a Mishnaic era teaching that Yeshu practised black magic, deceived and led Israel astray. This quote is seen by some as an explanation in general for the designation \"Yeshu\".\n\nAccording to Dr. Rubenstein, the account in \"Sanhedrin\" 107b recognizes the kinship between Christians and Jews, since Jesus is presented as a disciple of a prominent Rabbi. But it also reflects and speaks to an anxiety fundamental to Rabbinic Judaism. Prior to the destruction of the Temple in 70, Jews were divided into different sects, each promoting different interpretations of the law. Rabbinic Judaism domesticated and internalized conflicts over the law, while vigorously condemning any sectarianism. In other words, rabbis are encouraged to disagree and argue with one another, but these activities must be carefully contained, or else they could lead to a schism. Although this story may not present a historically accurate account of Jesus' life, it does use a fiction about Jesus to communicate an important truth about the Rabbis. Moreover, Rubenstein sees this story as a rebuke to overly harsh Rabbis. Boyarin suggests that the Rabbis were well aware of Christian views of the Pharisees and that this story acknowledges the Christian belief that Jesus was forgiving and the Pharisees were not (see Mark 2:1–2), while emphasizing forgiveness as a necessary Rabbinic value.\n\nIn \"Gittin 56b–57a\" a story is recorded in which Onkelos, a nephew of the Roman emperor Titus who destroyed the Second Temple, intent on converting to Judaism, summons up the spirits of Yeshu and others to help make up his mind. Each describes his punishment in the afterlife.\n\nThe complete passage from the 1935 Soncino edition is:\nScholars have identified passages that mention Jesus in the context of his execution:\n\n\nThe complete passage is: \"On (Sabbath eve and) the eve of Passover Jesus the Nazarene was hanged and a herald went forth before him forty days heralding, 'Jesus the Nazarene is going forth to be stoned because he practiced sorcery and instigated and seduced Israel to idolatry. Whoever knows anything in defense may come and state it.' But since they did not find anything in his defense they hanged him on (Sabbath eve and) the eve of Passover. Ulla said: Do you suppose that Jesus the Nazarene was one for whom a defense could be made? He was a mesit (someone who instigated Israel to idolatry), concerning whom the Merciful [God]says: Show him no compassion and do not shield him (Deut. 13:9). With Jesus the Nazarene it was different. For he was close to the government.\"\n\nIn the Florence manuscript of the Talmud (1177 CE) an addition is made to \"Sanhedrin 43a\" saying that Yeshu was hanged on the eve of the Sabbath.\n\nSome Talmudic sources include passages which identify a \"son of Pandera\" (\"ben Pandera\" in Hebrew), and some scholars conclude that these are references to the messiah of Christianity. Ancient Hebrew midrashic literature contain the \"Episode of Jesus\" (known also as \"Maaseh Yeshu\"), in which Jesus is described as being the son of Joseph, the son of Pandera (see: ). The account portrays Jesus as an impostor.\n\nThe Talmud, and other talmudic texts, contain several references to the \"son of Pandera\". A few of the references explicitly name Jesus (\"Yeshu\") as the \"son of Pandera\": these explicit connections are found in the Tosefta, the Qohelet Rabbah, and the Jerusalem Talmud, but not in the Babylonian Talmud. The explicit connections found in the Jerusalem Talmud are debated because the name \"Jesus\" (\"Yeshu\") is found only in a marginal gloss in some manuscripts, but other scholars conclude that it was in the original versions of the Jerusalem Talmud.\n\nThe texts include several spellings for the father's name (Pandera, Panthera, Pandira, Pantiri, or Pantera) and some scholars conclude that these are all references to the same individual, but other scholars suggest that they may be unrelated references. In some of the texts, the father produced a son with a woman named Mary. Several of the texts indicate that the mother was not married to Pandera, and was committing adultery and – by implication – Jesus was a bastard child. Some of the texts indicate that Mary's husband's name was Stada.\n\nSome Talmudic sources include passages which identify a \"son of Stada\" or \"son of Stara\" (\"ben Stada\" or \"ben Stara\" in Hebrew), and some scholars conclude that these are references to the messiah of Christianity.\n\nTwo talmudic-era texts that explicitly associate Jesus as the son of Pantera/Pandera are:\n\n\nBoth of the above passages describe situations where Jesus' name is invoked to perform magical healing. In addition, some editions of the Jerusalem Talmud explicitly identify Jesus as the son of Pandera:\n\n\nHowever, some editions of the Jerusalem Talmud do not contain the name Jesus in these passages, so the association in this case is disputed. The parallel passages in the Babylonian Talmud do not contain the name Jesus.\n\nOther Talmudic narratives describe Jesus as the son of a Pantiri or Pandera, in a teaching context:\n\nHowever, the parallel accounts in the Babylonian Talmud mention Jesus but do not mention the father's name:\n\nThe Babylonian talmud contains narratives that discuss an anonymous person who brought witchcraft out of Egypt, and the person is identified as \"son of Pandera\" or \"son of Stada\". The Talmud discusses whether the individual (the name Jesus is not present in these passages) is the son of Stada, or Pandera, and a suggestion is made that the mother Mary committed adultery.\n\n\nThere is no Talmudic text that directly associates Jesus with Mary (Miriam), instead the association is indirect: Jesus is associated with a father (\"son of Pandera\"), and in other passages, Pandera is associated with Mary (as her lover).\n\nTypically both Jerusalem and Babylonian Talmuds use the generic \"minim\" for heretics. Aside from mentions of the five disciples of \"Yeshu ha Notzri,\" the plural \"Notzrim,\" \"Christians,\" are only clearly mentioned once in the Babylonian Talmud, (where it is amended to \"Netzarim\", people of the watch) in B.Ta'anit 27b with a late parallel in Masekhet Soferim 17:4. And then \"The day of the Notzri according to Rabbi Ishmael is forbidden for ever\" in some texts of B.Avodah Zarah 6a.\n\nThe\" Toledot Yeshu\" (\"History of Jesus\") is a Jewish anti-Christian polemic that purports to be a biography of Jesus. The work is an early account of Jesus, based on contemporary Jewish views, in which Jesus is described as being the son of Joseph, the son of Pandera (see a translation of the Yemenite text: , or what is also known as \"Toledot Yeshu\"). Some scholars conclude that the work is merely an expansion and elaboration on anti-Christian themes in the Talmud. Stephen Gero suggests that an early version of the Toledot Yeshu narrative preceded the Talmud, and that the Talmud drew upon the Toledot Yeshu, but Rubenstein and Schäfer discount that possibility, because they date the origin of the \"Toledot Yeshu\" in the early Middle Ages or Late Antiquity.\n\nThe Platonistic philosopher Celsus, writing circa 150 to 200 CE, wrote a narrative describing a Jew who discounts the story of the Virgin Birth of Jesus. Scholars have remarked on the parallels (adultery, father's name \"Panthera\", return from Egypt, magical powers) between Celsus' account and the Talmudic narratives. In Celsus' account, the Jew says:\n\n\"... [Jesus] came from a Jewish village and from a poor country woman who earned her living by spinning. He says that she was driven out by her husband, who was a carpenter by trade, as she was convicted of adultery. Then he says that after she had been driven out by her husband and while she was wandering about in a disgraceful way she secretly gave birth to Jesus. He states that because he [Jesus] was poor he hired himself out as a workman in Egypt, and there tried his hand at certain magical powers on which the Egyptians pride themselves; he returned full of conceit, because of these powers, and on account of them gave himself the title of God ... the mother of Jesus is described as having been turned out by the carpenter who was betrothed to her, as she had been convicted of adultery and had a child by a certain soldier named Panthera.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10031903", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10031903", "title": "Jewish quarter (diaspora)", "text": "Jewish quarter (diaspora)\n\nIn the Jewish diaspora, a Jewish quarter (also known as jewry, juiverie, Judengasse, Jewynstreet, or proto-ghetto) is the area of a city traditionally inhabited by Jews. Jewish quarters, like the Jewish ghettos in Europe, were often the outgrowths of segregated ghettos instituted by the surrounding Christian authorities. A Yiddish term for a Jewish quarter or neighborhood is \"Di yiddishe gas\" ( ), or \"The Jewish quarter.\" While in Ladino, they are known as \"maalé yahudí\", meaning \"The Jewish quarter\". Many European and Middle Eastern cities once had a historical Jewish quarter and some still have it.\n\nJewish quarters in Europe existed for a number of reasons. In some cases, Christian authorities wished to segregate Jews from the Christian population so that Christians would not be \"contaminated\" by them or so as to put psychological pressure on Jews to convert to Christianity. From the Jewish point of view, concentration of Jews within a limited area offered a level of protection from outside influences or mob violence. In many cases, residents had their own justice system. When political authorities designated an area where Jews were required by law to live, such areas were commonly referred to as ghettos, and were usually coupled with many other disabilities and indignities. The areas chosen usually consisted of the most undesirable areas of a city. In the 19th century, Jewish ghettos were progressively abolished, and their walls taken down, though some areas of Jewish concentration continued and continue to exist. In some cities, Jewish quarters refer to areas which historically had concentrations of Jews. For example, many maps of Spanish towns mark a \"Jewish Quarter\", though Spain hasn't had a significant Jewish population for over 500 years.\n\nHowever, in the course of World War II, Nazi Germany reestablished Jewish ghettos in Nazi-occupied Europe (which they called Jewish quarters) for the purpose of segregation, persecution, terror, and exploitation of Jews, mostly in Eastern Europe. According to USHMM archives, \"The Germans established at least 1,000 ghettos in German-occupied and annexed Poland and the Soviet Union alone.\"\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nIn the Americas, Australia, New Zealand and South Africa there are a number of neighborhoods or small towns, generally in large cities or outlying communities of such, which are home to large concentrations of Jewish residents, much in the manner of old-world Jewish quarters or other ethnic enclaves, though without exclusive Jewish population.\n\n"}
{"id": "38649510", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38649510", "title": "José Gustavo Angel Ramírez", "text": "José Gustavo Angel Ramírez\n\nJosé Gustavo Angel Ramírez (19 March 1934 − 23 February 2013) was a Colombian Roman Catholic.\n\nOrdained to the priesthood on 7 September 1958, Angel Ramírez was named bishop of the Apostolic Vicariate of Mitú, Colombia on 19 June 1989 and retired on 17 September 2009.\n"}
{"id": "6242054", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6242054", "title": "José Ignacio Thames", "text": "José Ignacio Thames\n\nJosé Ignacio Thames (August 15, 1762 – February 9, 1832) was an Argentine statesman and priest. He was a representative to the Congress of Tucumán which on July 9, 1816 declared the Independence of Argentina.\n\nThames was born in San Miguel de Tucumán to José Ignacio Thames and María Josefa Gutiérrez. He studied in Córdoba, receiving his doctorate in 1784, and was ordained. He returned to Tucumán then moved on to Salta, where he became a priest in the cathedral in 1813.\n\nThames chaired the electoral \"junta\" for Salta that elected its representatives to the Tucumán Congress. He himself was elected by Tucumán to the Congress and served in 1816 for the declaration.\n\n"}
{"id": "24131790", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24131790", "title": "Ken Hanson (academic)", "text": "Ken Hanson (academic)\n\nKenneth L. Hanson (born 1953) is an associate professor in the University of Central Florida Judaic Studies Program, at the University of Central Florida, in Orlando, Florida. Dr. Hanson has authored books on the Dead Sea Scrolls, Kabbalah and lost books of the Bible. He is a regular contributor on the History Channel, and. has also appeared on the radio show Coast to Coast AM as a guest numerous times.\n\nHe is famous for his characters and impersonations, noted is his excellent portrayal of Sherlock Holmes.\n"}
{"id": "31165714", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31165714", "title": "Khairaha", "text": "Khairaha\n\nThe Khairaha are a Hindu caste found in the state of Uttar Pradesh in India. They have Scheduled Caste status.\n\nThe Khairaha are sub-group of the Khairwar tribe of central India. Small groups of Khairwar tribesmen are said to migrated to the Mirzapur district in the 18th century. They are now entirely separate from their parent community, now speaking Hindi. The Khairaha are now found mainly in Mirzapur and Allahabad districts.\n\nTheir habitat is hilly undulating terrain, and extremely forested. They speak Hindi and have Scheduled Caste status. The Khairaha are divided into a number of exogamous clans known as kuris, of which the following are the main ones, Chouria, Nagria and Tengriha. They use the surname Kashyap. Like other Hindu castes, they are strictly endogamous.\n\nThe Khairaha are now a community of small and medium sized farmers. Animal husbandry and fishing are subsidiary occupations. Many are also employed in the mines that are found throughout southern Uttar Pradesh. They have a number of tribal deities like Goerdevi and Dulhadeo.\n\nThe 2011 Census of India for Uttar Pradesh showed the Khairaha Scheduled Caste population as 892.\n"}
{"id": "10871568", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10871568", "title": "List of Eastern Orthodox saint titles", "text": "List of Eastern Orthodox saint titles\n\nThe holy figures of the Eastern Orthodox Church (and of the Eastern Catholic Churches of the Byzantine Rite) have various customary saint titles with which they are commemorated on the liturgical calendar and in Divine Services.\n\nThe following list explains the references:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20886861", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20886861", "title": "Margaret Lumley Brown", "text": "Margaret Lumley Brown\n\nMargaret Lumley Brown (b. 7 December 1886 Long Stratton, Norfolk, d.\n27 November 1975 London) was an occult figure of the 20th century. She took over the leadership of the Society of the Inner Light upon the death of Dion Fortune. She assisted Dion Fortune in writing \"The Arthurian Formula\", which is considered to be an extremely influential work to the Society of the Inner Light. She also wrote poetry using the moniker Irene Hay. Prior to joining the Society of the Inner Light, Margaret Lumley Brown wrote \"Both Sides of the Door\", which is said to have been based off of her own life experiences with the supernatural in 1913, and which was published in 1918. The book piqued the interest of Arthur Conan Doyle, and the two conversed about it and its subject matter She had a sister, Isobel, and dedicated \"Both Sides of the Door\" to her. In addition to being a writer, Margaret Lumley Brown was a psychic, who began with the art of crystal gazing, but with practice was able to hone her abilities, and was eventually granted the title of Arch-Pythoness of the Society of the Inner Light, as well as being known as a Cosmic Medium. She first joined the Society of the Inner Light between 1943-1934, and remained a member until her death in 1975.\n\n"}
{"id": "2198777", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2198777", "title": "Master of Theology", "text": "Master of Theology\n\nIn North America, the Master of Theology (, abbreviated ThM) is a post graduate or doctoral degree considered by the Association of Theological Schools to be the minimum educational credential for teaching theological subjects in accredited seminaries and graduate schools. The ThM is equivalent to the Master of Sacred Theology and the Association of Theological Schools classifies both degrees as \"Advanced Programs Oriented Toward Theological Research and Teaching.\"\n\nA Master of Theology (ThM) is an advanced theological research degree offered by universities, divinity schools, and seminaries. The degree is usually earned after the Master of Divinity (MDiv) or an equivalent of three years of graduate studies in theology. This degree can range from one or two years of specialized advanced studies in theological research (i.e. Counseling, Church History, Systematic Theology, etc.). It may or may not require comprehensive subject exams and a research thesis, but is required to produce \"learning outcomes that demonstrate advanced competency in one area or discipline of theological study and capacity to conduct original research in that area.\" The Master of Theology is usually designed as an advanced academic degree with an emphasis on academic research. The ThM often functions as a terminal and/or doctoral level degree, dependent upon one's particular educational route or institution of study. Some institutions award a ThM en route to a Doctor of Philosophy or Doctor of Theology in addition offering stand alone ThM programs.\n\nSee link for a comparison of the ThM to other seminary degrees - https://www.seminarycomparison.com/seminary-comparison-mdiv-vs-ma-vs-thm/\n"}
{"id": "445046", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=445046", "title": "Mount Katahdin", "text": "Mount Katahdin\n\nMount Katahdin ( ) is the highest mountain in the U.S. state of Maine at . Named Katahdin by the Penobscot Indians, which means \"The Greatest Mountain\", it is located within Northeast Piscataquis, Piscataquis County, and is the centerpiece of Baxter State Park. It is a steep, tall masiff formed from a granite intrusion weathered to the surface. The flora and fauna on the mountain are typical of those found in northern New England.\n\nKatahdin was known to the Native Americans in the region, and was known to Europeans at least since 1689. It has inspired hikes, climbs, journal narratives, paintings, and a piano sonata. The area around the peak was protected by Governor Percival Baxter starting in the 1930s. Katahdin is the northern terminus of the Appalachian Trail, and is located near a stretch known as the Hundred-Mile Wilderness.\n\nThe mountain is commonly called just \"Katahdin\", though the official name is \"Mount Katahdin\" as decided by the US Board on Geographic Names in 1893.\n\nKatahdin is in Baxter State Park, which is in east central Piscataquis County, about northwest of Millinocket. It is on the drainage divide between the East and West branches of the Penobscot River.\n\nThe mountain massif itself consists of multiple peaks. Baxter Peak is the tallest, and is the official northern terminus of the Appalachian Trail. South Peak and Pamola Peak are southeast and east of Baxter Peak, respectively, along the notorious Knife Edge ridgeline, while Hamlin Peak lies to the north.\n\nThe third highest mountain in Maine, Sugarloaf Mountain at 1,295 m (4,250 ft), is over one hundred miles to the southwest. There is low lake country to the south and west of Katahdin, and lowlands extending east to the Atlantic and north to the Saint Lawrence River in Canada.\n\nIt is commonly thought that Katahdin is the first place in the United States mainland to receive sunlight in the morning, but this is incorrect. Other mountains, lower in elevation but farther to the east or southeast, depending on the season, see the first sunrise of the day.\n\nKatahdin is part of a laccolith that formed in the Acadian orogeny, when an island arc collided with eastern North America approximately 400 million years ago. On the sides of Katahdin are four glacial cirques carved into the granite by alpine glaciers and in these cirques behind moraines and eskers are several ponds.\n\nIn Baxter State Park, many outcrops of sedimentary rocks have striations, whereas Katahdin Granite and Traveler Rhyolite lava have weathered surfaces on which striations are commonly not preserved. Bedrock surfaces of igneous rocks which have been buried by glacial sediments and only recently exposed have well preserved striations, as in the vicinity of Ripogenus Dam. Several outcrops of sedimentary rocks along the Patten Road show striations, especially on the north side of the road at Hurricane Deck. A few outcrops near the Pattern Road just north of Horse Mountain are striated, as are several outcrops of sedimentary rocks along the road from Trout Brook Farm northward to Second Lake Matagamon.\n\nFauna include black bear, deer and moose as well as black flies and mosquitos in the spring. A subspecies of Arctic butterfly, known as the Katahdin Arctic (\"Oeneis polixenes katahdin\") is specific to the area, and is currently listed as endangered.\nAmong the birds are Bicknell's thrush and various songbirds and raptors. A study of the animal communities was published by Irving H. Blake in 1926. The flora includes pine, spruce, fir, hemlock, beech, maple, birch, aspen, and \"Diapensia lapponica\".\n\nKatahdin is referred to 60 years after Field's climb of Agiokochuk (Mount Washington) in the writings of John Gyles, a teenage colonist who was captured near Portland, Maine in 1689 by the Abenaki. While in the company of Abenaki hunting parties, he traveled up and down several Maine rivers including both branches of the Penobscot, passing close to \"Teddon\". He remarked that it was higher than the White Hills above the Saco River.\n\nAmong some Native Americans, Katahdin was believed to be the home of the storm god Pamola, and thus an area to be avoided.\n\nThe first recorded climb of \"Catahrdin\" was by Massachusetts surveyors Zackery Adley and Charles Turner, Jr. in August 1804. In the 1840s Henry David Thoreau climbed Katahdin, which he spelled \"Ktaadn\"; his ascent is recorded in a well-known chapter of \"The Maine Woods\". A few years later Theodore Winthrop wrote about his visit in \"Life in the Open Air\". Painters Frederic Edwin Church and Marsden Hartley are well-known artists who created landscapes of Katahdin. On 30 November 2011, Christie's auctioned Church's 1860 painting \"Twilight (Katahdin)\" for $3.1 million.\n\nIn the 1930s Governor Percival Baxter began to acquire land and finally deeded more than 200,000 acres (809 km) to the State of Maine for a park, named Baxter State Park after him. The summit was officially recognized by the US Board on Geographic Names as \"Baxter Peak\" in 1931.\n\nAs the northern terminus of the Appalachian Trail and southern terminus of the International Appalachian Trail, Katahdin is a popular hiking and backpacking destination and the centerpiece of Baxter State Park. \nBaxter State Park is open year-round, though strictly regulated in winter. The overnight camping season is from May 15 to October 15 each year. Capacity limits have been placed on day use parking at the trailheads to minimize the overuse of trails.\n\nMt. Katahdin has several trails leading up to either Pamola or Baxter Peak. There are two trails, Hunt and Abol, accessible from the south side of the mountain, each with its own separate parking lot. These trails start right up the mountain, but each trail on the mountain ends up taking eight to ten hours round-trip depending on ability. The rest of the trails go up the north side or west side of the mountain. These are accessed from the Chimney Pond Trail. For these trails, hikers must park at the Roaring Brook Campground and hike in. All trails are maintained by the Baxter State Park Authority, which runs the State Park. All of the trails on the mountain are classified as very strenuous, the highest classification the Park Authority gives, except for Saddle (strenuous), Hamlin Ridge trail (moderate), and Chimney Pond (moderate).\n\nThe most famous hike to the summit goes along Knife Edge, which traverses the ridge between Pamola Peak and Baxter Peak. The mountain has claimed 23 lives since 1963, mostly from exposure in bad weather and falls from the Knife Edge. For about 3/10 of a mile the trail is 3 feet wide, with a drop off on either side. The Knife Edge is closed during periods of high wind.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56465824", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56465824", "title": "Nazarene judaism (religious movement)", "text": "Nazarene judaism (religious movement)\n\nThe Nazarenes (in hebrew: נַצְרָתִים) (transliteration: \"Natzratim\") or Nazarene Judaism are followers of Jesus of Nazareth (Yeshua) and practice a monotheistic religion. The Nazarenes are part of the Jewish people, but they are not part of Orthodox Judaism. The Nazarenes have some ideological differences with Messianic Jews.\n\nMessianic Jews believe in the Holy Trinity, they believe that Jesus of Nazareth is Elohim, they believe that the Torah, the Tanach, and the New Covenant, are part of the divine revelation. The messianic liturgy is based on Judaism, but can incorporate some elements of evangelical Christianity.\n\nThe Nazarenes do not believe in the Trinity, they believe that Jesus of Nazareth was a human being, they believe in the Torah and the Tanach, but they do not believe that the New Covenant is a sacred book. The Nazarene liturgy is based on the application of the Torah, according to the interpretation of Rabbi Jesus of Nazareth.\n"}
{"id": "11192878", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11192878", "title": "Oshwal Academy", "text": "Oshwal Academy\n\nOshwal Academy is a private, co-educational institution situated in Nairobi and Mombasa, Kenya, which is owned and managed by Oshwal Education and Relief Board (part of a community of Kenyan-Indians practising Jainism), which also owns several private schools and hostels in Nairobi, Kenya. \n\nIts curriculum follows the British National Curriculum of General Certificate of Education\n(GCE), although it replaced the O Level system to IGCSE from the 2006/2007 academic year. \n\nThe original building was sold and the school relocated to the exclusive Nyali region of Mombasa in 2005.\n\nThe new campus includes:\nKindergarten School,\nPrimary School,\nJunior School,\nSenior School,\n3 ICT Laboratories,\n6 Science Laboratories,\nCafeteria,\nAdministration Block,\nLibrary,\nStaff room,\nBook store,\n2 Art rooms ,\nMusic room,\nBand room, \nSwimming pool, and\nBasketball field.\n\nThe campus has a multi-purpose hall (which caters for indoor games such as badminton, basketball, handball, table-tennis and volleyball. It can host assemblies, examinations and entertainment events. The campus also includes sporting facilities, as follows: 25-metre swimming pool and toddlers pool, Full-sized football pitch (also can be used for hockey and rugby), 400 metre track field, Tennis courts, Common rooms, and Gardens.\n\nThe Kindergarten section in the school is a co-educational institution for children between the ages of 2 and 5. The section has a separate building, with a separate playing area.\n\nJunior School caters for students between the ages of 6 to 11 which follows the British educational system of Key Stage. .\n\nSenior School is divided into an IGCSE section and an A Level section. Year 7 to 11 concentrate on the IGCSE examinations, after which students sit on their pre-university examinations during Year 12 and 13, modelled after the British Advanced Level system.\n\nSome of the clubs and activities available are:\n'Music, dance and theatre',\nExpedition,\nModel United Nations,\nStudent council,\nPresident’s Award Scheme,\nArt and Craft,\nChess,\nFirst Aid,\nGirl Guides,\nInteract,\nJournalism,\nPublic speaking and drama,\nScience,\nScouting,\nSmart Cookies,\nWildlife,\nYoung Farmers,\nBook and Media club,\nTaekwondo, and\nLondon Academy of Music and Dramatic Art.\n\n"}
{"id": "50710120", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50710120", "title": "Our Lady of Sorrows of Calolbon (Batong Paloway)", "text": "Our Lady of Sorrows of Calolbon (Batong Paloway)\n\nOur Lady of Sorrows of Batong Paloway is an image of the Blessed Virgin Mary on a stone, venerated in Catanduanes, Philippines. \n\nThe image on the stone is derived from the Spanish icon of \"Our Lady of the Finger\" (\"Nuestra Señora del Dedo\"), which shows her finger coming out from underneath her veil. Since this title was not yet known or popular in the Philippines at the turn of the 20th century (when the image was discovered), devotees conflated it with Our Lady of Sorrows, a form more popular especially during Holy Week.\n\nFrom 1900 to 1910, the town of Calolbon felt the strains of the transition to American rule. The people slowly adjusted the new era, hoped for the lesser cruelty and prayed for a total change. Religion at that times was their consolation, their weapon and solace toward off evils, their source of hope for a better place to live in only through the power of prayers that their wishes be granted. \n\nReligious as they were, villagers did not miss reciting the Angelus at six o’clock in the morning and in the evening of each day. By nature, the natives were resilient, hardworking and God-fearing. Their means of living primarily came from farming, supplemented fishing. This was the picture of Calolbon and its people, where graft and corruption and various crimes were unheard of.\n\nIt was harvest season (October to November); the people were busy harvesting the palay. One late morning, another happening was in the making. Pacio Socao, together with his companion, was herding carabaos in the Culapnit, a few kilometers away from the Poblacion.\n\nAfter placing their carabaos in a grassy plain, Pacio started to look for a place where he might rest, and he chose an \"iba\" or \"kamiás\" (\"Averrhoa bilimbi\") tree. When he started to climb, he was attracted by a luminous object sthat shone in the morning sun. He picked up the object and saw it was a stone imprinted with the features of an enchanting woman. He showed it to his companion, who remarked that it might be an \"aswang\" or something evil. Pacio thus threw the stone away, and it landed in carabao mud hole (\"lab-ogan\") surrounded by thick bushes and guava trees. The boys then forgot about the incident.\nOne afternoon before they went home, Pacio went near the same \"iba\" tree and there he saw again the stone with a picture. This time he put it in his pocket, and the started to go home. When he reached home, he kept the stone up between the nipa thatchings of their house. Early in the evening, his mother María, known to most as Bengge, was surprised by a shimmering light in their roof. She called Pacio and asked him to see what the light was; the boy obeyed and found out that it was the stone he had hid. His mother stored the image inside their trunk, which contained some of their clothes and valuables.\n\nAt this point, Bengge remembered that as she was in the fields with other villagers harvesting rice, she heard churchbells pealing loudly out of nowhere. She surmised that his happened the moment Pacio found the image. Sometime later, the Socao family started smelling an unidentifiable yet sweet odour. They later discovered that the fragrance was emanating from the trunk where the image was kept. They removed the image and enthroned it on their home altar. The picture started to radiate more beautifully, with her forehead prominently and partly covered by a blue white veil. A mole is sometimes seen on the forehead and many have seen the image wink. The lady has long eyelashes which made her even prettier. Natives of the place were ready to accept the apparition yet reluctant to openly manifest it, had it not been for the first wave of the pilgrims coming from the different coastal towns of Camarines and Albay. These people rode in sailing boats called \"parao\". With them were sick people who were carried in hammocks. Asked why they came, they all answered, they were sick and they can only be healed by Maria. A middle aged woman, nicknamed “Bengge”, came to their houses to ask for alms and many forms of material aid, so she could start building an ermita in honor of “Our Lady of Sorrows” (Nuestra Señora de Dolor). The replay of the pilgrims surprised the natives for never had Bengge travelled far to reach the mainland, except the places within the confines of Calolbon.\n\nWave after the wave of people the normal, the infirmed and the sick from distant towns of Catanduanes and the mainland came bringing with them the nipa shingles rattan, money, rice, oil and animals like pigs, carabaos and many more. They prayed before the image of Our Lady of Sorrows, Pacio was asked to massage the afflicted parts of the sick people. Some got leaves, stem and branches, barks, and roots of Iba tree and used it as medicine. Many of them got cured and relieved. The relief and cure of the sick was evident. No doubt, to these people it was a miracle. For so many months, many sick went there and donations, as days passed is now enough to build a chapel on the spot where the miraculous picture was found. The place was at that time called Culapnit (now part of Batong Paloway). When the venerated miraculous image of Our Lady of Sorrows was enshrined there, another miracle happened. At the base of the iba tree (foot of the altar), there came out a spring of clear water. At that time, Iba tree was almost extinct down to its deepest roots and with no more parts of the tree to get as medicine, perhaps Our Lady of Sorrows could only explain the occurrence. The water from the spring was curative. There were instances of miracles experienced by those who came to the place where the miraculous picture was.\n\nThe picture of Our Lady of Sorrows looks like it was perfectly glued and laminated to a small hard stone, the other side with a flat surface. The picture seemed laminated and the texture is indeed smooth with glossy surface. The image now is properly adorned in a glass frame and put in the Ermita where devotees go and pray and offer masses. Meanwhile, when the miracle of Our Lady of Sorrows was known far and wide, the family who found the image lived in abundance. They had tray of coins and baskets of donations, unfortunately, their wealth and abundance became their obsession, and they spent money for luxury. They even defied the order of the parish priest not to slaughter pigs and carabaos as it was the eve of the feast day of St. Peter and St. Paul. The priest was furious and ordered that the image should be brought to the town and be enshrined in the town’s church.Another miracle was when the image was brought to the town and presented to the priest in the convent. From nowhere was water that dropped in front of the image of Our Lady of Sorrows forming a cross.\n\nThe picture of Our Lady of Sorrows remained for a long time in the Parish Church. Only during the start of the Novena in preparation of the Barrio Fiesta that the venerated image of Nuestra Señora de los Dolores was permitted to be brought back at her original place with a condition to be returned after the “Celebra”. Even then, many people flocked to Batong Paloway during the feast day celebrated in December. The image was returned only during the term of Rev. Fr. Andres Tablizo in 1938-1941 upon the appeal of the natives of Batong Paloway. These people were insistent to get back their patroness, Our Lady of Sorrows for they experienced and witnessed bright rays of light coming from their altar at the chapel. This happened usually after six in the evening. These signs were enough to strengthen the natives’ rights to claim for their own patroness. The miracles perhaps of later times were only felt and received by those who came and prayed and favors were granted. However, in subsequent years, for many felt and received relief and thorough recovery, the devotion to Our Lady of Sorrows did not wane. Despite the absence of documented events and experiences on the miracles and favors granted to the faithful, still devotees flock to the place where she resides. Friday is the special day preferred for it was the day when the stone was found.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7203503", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7203503", "title": "Parmalim", "text": "Parmalim\n\nThe term Parmalim or malim describes the followers of the \"Malim religion\" (\"Ugamo Malim\" or Batak nation religion), the modern form of the traditional Batak religion. People who are not familiar with the Batak language may erroneously assume Parmalim is the name of the religion rather than its practitioners.\n\nAt the end of the 19th and in the beginning of the 20th century the Parmalim movement, which originated in Toba lands spread to other areas of the Batak lands. Especially in the lower Karo lands, the 'dusun' the Malim religion, became very influential as an expression of anti-colonial sentiments at the turn of the 20th century. Today the majority of Parmalim are Toba Batak. The largest of the several existing Parmalim groups has its centre in Huta Tinggi in the vicinity of Laguboti on the south shore of Lake Toba.\n\nThe Malim religion has some similarities with Islam, including a prohibition on the consumption of pork and of blood, and the practice of wearing turbans. Modern Malim deny that these practices were derived from Islam.\n\nOne of the first leaders of the Parmalim movement was Raja Mulia Naipospos. Modern Parmalim trace their heritage to Sisingamangaraja XII, a Batak leader in the fight against the Dutch, whose spirit is still alive in his successors. According to Raja Marnakkok Naipospos, a modern Parmalim leader, the faith has often be slandered as devil worship 'Campaigns branding Parmalim as devil worshippers still exist today', he said, 'Batak not familiar with Malim regard it as a heresy. But in fact, Malim recognizes the existence of the one and only Almighty God'. (Mula Jadi Na Bolon in Batak mythology).\n"}
{"id": "28844421", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28844421", "title": "Puttaraj Gawai", "text": "Puttaraj Gawai\n\nPandit Puttaraj Gawai (3 March 1914 – 17 September 2010) was an Indian musician in the Hindustani classical tradition, a scholar who authored more than 80 books in Kannada, Sanskrit and Hindi, a music teacher and a social servant. A member of the Gwalior Gharana (school), he is renowned for his ability to play many instruments such as the veena, the tabla, mridangam, violin etc., as well as for his popular renditions of devotional music (\"bhajans\") vachanas.A famous vocalist both in Hindustani and Karnataka Music. He is the recipient of the Padma Bhushan, India's third highest civilian honour, awarded in 2008.\n\nHe was born into a poor Kannada Veerashaiva Lingayat family in Devara Hospete in Hangal taluk of Haveri district of Karnataka. His parents were Revaiah Venkatapurmath and Siddamma. He lost his eyesight at the age of 6. He lost his parents when he was 10 months old. His maternal uncle Chandrashekharaiah took him under his wings and raised him.\n\nSeeing Gawai's interest in music, his uncle took him to Veereshwara Punyashrama, run by Ganayogi Panchakshara Gawai. Under the guidance of Panchakshara Gawai, he mastered Hindustani. He mastered carnatic music under the guidance of Mundarigi Raghavendrachar (belonging to Vishesha Parampara). He had mastered many instruments harmonium, tabla, violin and 10 other music instruments.\n\nPuttaraj Gawai set up a theater company which would not only to help in raising funds to provide free food, shelter,education to disabled orphans but also to contribute to the theater culture.Thus,\"SriGuru Kumareshwara Krupa Poshita Natya Company \"was established. His first play 'Sri Sivayogi Sidharama' written and directed by him brought in profit and was applauded. This was followed by many other successful productions.\n\nPuttaraj Gawai has authored over 80 books on spirituality, religion, history as well as biographies of many 'sharanas' of the Bhakti movement of the 12th century. He has authored books in Kannada, Hindi and Sanskrit. He re-wrote the Bhagavad Gita in Braille script.\n\nPuttaraja Gawai is one of the pioneers of Veereshwara Punyashrama, a music school dedicated to imparting musical knowledge to people who are differentially able-d. Disabled people, especially blind from all castes, religions and sections of the society are taught music in the ashram.\nPt. Dr. Puttaraj Kavi Gavaiji has been the pontiff of Shree Veereshwara Punyashrama Since 1944, after the demise of Pt. Panchaxara Gavaiji who founded this Ashrama for the upliftment of the born-blind children and orphans. Since its inception in 1942, Shree Veereshwar Punyashrama has been feeding and educating the born-blind and the orphans and the poor children free of cost, without discrimination on the basis of caste and creed. The Ashrama is solely run on the strength of voluntary donations by its devotees.\nThe mission of the Ashrama is selfless service to the community, especially and poorest and the blind. The disciples trained and educated in Music. and Fine Arts have become music teachers, stage-artists, radio-artists, musicians and professionals in the field of arts in thousands.\n\"Pt. Panchaxari Gavi Drama Theatre\" organized and founded by Pt.\nPuttaraj Gaviji has given innumerable performances and has been considered as one of the pioneering feats of Theatre Movement in the North Karnataka. Being solely dedicated to furthering the art of stage drama, this dramatic company has produced thousands of stage artists who have earned national and international fame.\nPunyashrama has produced thousands of \"Kirtanakaras\" who are busy delivering Puranas and Pravachanas and Keertanas all over the state. Thus, Shree Veereshwara Punyashrama is rendering valuable services in the field of literature, music, religion, literacy and social service. It is dedicated to the cause of the welfare of the blind and down-trodden for over seventy years in its own humble way. The very secular credentials of this institution has made this Ashrama typical and a class by itself.\nThe Pontiff of Shree Veereshwara Punyashrama, Gadag is viewed by the devotees as a \"Walking God on the Earth\".\nShree Veereshwara Punyashrama of Gadag is a very popular and influential Ashrama in Karnataka. It is a charity institution solely dedicated to the upliftment of the blind, orphans and poor children. More than 1000 children reside in the Ashrama and are fed free of cost. The Ashrama runs Thirteen institutions comprising musical as well as general education.\n\nShree Veereshwara Punyashrama is run on its own strength without any aid from the Government. It has been contributing to the society the talented musicians, radioartists, music teachers, stage - artists and the professionals in the field of music and fine arts.\nShree Veereshwara Punyashrama is thoroughtly a secular institution and admits students from all sections of society without discrimination on the basis of caste and creed.\n\nThe pontiff, Pt. Puttaraj Kavi Gavaiji has been serving out society in different capacities and is a catalyst of social and communal harmony. He richly deserves any coveted prize and honour like \"Padma Vibhushan Award\".\n\nGawai has taught many students which presently runs to a count of more than 1000 visually impaired.\nSome of his well-known students are:\n\nHe died 17 September 2010, at Veereshwara Punyashrama, Gadag, Karnataka.He was buried at the ashram as per the veerashaiva traditions with respectful government honours. More than 1 million devotees attended his funeral ceremony in Gadag on 18 September 2010. The Karnataka state government declared state mourning on Saturday and holiday for government offices as a mark of respect to the multi-faceted personality.\n\nSome of his important works are listed below.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nPt Gawai has been bestowed with many awards for his contributions to music, literature and social service. Some important awards are listed below.\n\n"}
{"id": "51428864", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51428864", "title": "Reform (religion)", "text": "Reform (religion)\n\nA religious reform (from Latin \"re\": back, again, and \"formare\": to form; i.e. put together: \"to restore, reconstruct, or rebuild\") aims at the reform of religious teachings. It is not to be confused with an organizational reform of a religious community, though mostly this is a consequence of a reform of religious teachings.\n\nReligious reforms are performed when a religious community reaches the conclusion that it deviated from its - assumed - true faith. Mostly religious reforms are started by parts of a religious community and meet resistance in other parts of the same religious community. Religious reforms usually lead to a reformulation of the religious teachings held for true, and to the condemnation resp. rejection of teachings held for wrong.\n\nMostly the deviation from the assumed true faith which gives reason for a religious reform crept in over a longer period of time, sometimes over centuries. A religious reform is always a reorientation at the historical beginnings of a religion (therefore: \"re-formare\", reconstruct) under the perspective of the present time and with the knowledge of the present time. A typical example for deviations from an assumed true faith are social changes within society which lead a loss purpose for ethical prescriptions, so they have to be replaced by other ethical prescriptions in order to protect the underlying, unchanged value for the future. Another typical example is the factual falsification of traditional views, e.g. by better insights into historical events or into natural science, by which the traditional views are falsified.\n\nThe eternally continuing change of society and the progress of human knowledge are the reasons why a \"final\" reform of religious teachings is not possible. Religious teachings have to be reformed again and again. This realization was formulated in a concise sentence by Karl Barth in 1947: \"Ecclesia semper reformanda est\", i.e. \"The church is always to be reformed.\"\n\nReligious reforms do not aim at an adjustment to the spirit of the time in the first place, yet they naturally bring about certain adjustments to the present time, since the religious tradition is reconsidered and reformed under the perspective of the present time and with the knowledge of the present time. A full adjustment of a religious teaching to the spirit of the present time cannot be expected from a credible religious reform. Religious reforms which do not aim at the reestablishment of an assumed true faith in the first place, yet at a mere adjustment of religious teaching to the spirit of the time without respect to an assumed true faith are no religious reforms, strictly speaking. Their purpose is questionable since those reforms are not based on the faith of the believers. Reforms of this nature are often based on compulsion and are usually not long-lasting but are reversed in the next generations. An example is the attempt of the Roman emperor Julian the Apostate to restore paganism as state religion.\n\nThe opponents of justified religious reforms are called traditionalists, their ideology is traditionalism. The adherents of reforms to adjust to the spirit of the time in the first place without respect for an assumed true faith are called modernists, their ideology is modernism. Both concepts were coined by Christian-Catholic historical developments, yet today they are applied to all religions.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2892975", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2892975", "title": "Religious views of Isaac Newton", "text": "Religious views of Isaac Newton\n\nIsaac Newton (4 January 1643 – 31 March 1727) was considered an insightful and erudite theologian by his contemporaries. He wrote many works that would now be classified as occult studies and religious tracts dealing with the literal interpretation of the Bible.\n\nNewton's conception of the physical world provided a stable model of the natural world that would reinforce stability and harmony in the civic world. Newton saw a monotheistic God as the masterful creator whose existence could not be denied in the face of the grandeur of all creation. Although born into an Anglican family, by his thirties Newton held a Christian faith that, had it been made public, would not have been considered orthodox by mainstream Christianity; in recent times he has been described as a heretic.\n\nNewton was born into an Anglican family three months after the death of his father, a prosperous farmer also named Isaac Newton. When Newton was three, his mother married the rector of the neighbouring parish of North Witham and went to live with her new husband, the Reverend Barnabus Smith, leaving her son in the care of his maternal grandmother, Margery Ayscough. Isaac apparently hated his step-father, and had nothing to do with Smith during his childhood. His maternal uncle, the rector serving the parish of Burton Coggles, was involved to some extent in the care of Isaac.\n\nIn 1667 Newton became a Fellow of Trinity College, Cambridge, making necessary his commitment to taking Holy Orders within seven years of completing his MA, which he did the following year. He was also required to take a vow of celibacy and recognize the Thirty-Nine Articles of the Church of England. Newton considered ceasing his studies prior to completion in order to avoid the ordination made necessary by law of King Charles II. He was eventually successful in avoiding the statute, assisted in this by the efforts of Isaac Barrow, as in 1676 the then Secretary of State for the Northern Department, Joseph Williamson, changed the relevant statute of Trinity College to provide dispensation from this duty. After taking advantage of that, Newton embarked on an investigative study of the early history of the Church, which developed, during the 1680s, into inquiries about the origins of religion. At around the same time, he developed a scientific view on motion and matter. Of \"Philosophiæ Naturalis Principia Mathematica\" he stated:\nNewton's religious views developed as a result of participation in an investigative discourse with Nature (the nature of the world), and developed from the apparent dichotomy between biblical reality and the increasing revelation of the structure of reality from investigation. Newton saw these truths of nature as challenging established religion, particularly as embodied in Christian scriptural belief. Unorthodoxy was made necessary for Newton, and those affiliated with him, by the need for rediscovery of a \"\" truth that had been hidden somewhere in the time of classical history. By this they might have the capacity to engage in open dialogue with an investigation into Nature. In this conflict of ecclesiastical order and the liberating effects of scientific enquiry, he and others turned to the \"prisca\" in all the security of a classical civilization having been supposedly founded on \"bona fide\" insights. So, for them, the truth lay within the perception of reality attained by Pythagoras and communicated, supposedly in a secret way, to a specific circle of people.\n\nAs is found among some of the established intellectuals of the Renaissance age, Newton believed that ancient philosophers and religious persons had gained insight into the truth of the nature of the world and universe, but this truth having become hidden within the language of the recording of the truth at the time and by later medieval scholars (Albertus Magnus, Arnold of Villanova and Roger Bacon) that required deciphering in order to be understood. The belief in the wisdom of the ancients, that thinking was intelligent and knowing in the civilization of classical religious figures (Jesus of Nazareth, the prophet Isaiah and Solomon) and writers (Plato and Democritus) is known as \"prisca sapientia\".\n\nLike many contemporaries (e.g., Thomas Aikenhead) he lived with the threat of severe punishment if he had been open about his religious beliefs. Heresy was a crime that could have been punishable by the loss of all property and status or even death (see, e.g., the Blasphemy Act 1697). Because of his secrecy over his religious beliefs, Newton has been described as a Nicodemite.\n\nAccording to most scholars, Newton was Arian, not holding to Trinitarianism. 'In Newton's eyes, worshipping Christ as God was idolatry, to him the fundamental sin'. As well as being antitrinitarian, Newton allegedly rejected the orthodox doctrines of the immortal soul, a personal devil and literal demons. Although he was not a Socinian he shared many similar beliefs with them. A manuscript he sent to John Locke in which he disputed the existence of the Trinity was never published. In a minority view, T.C. Pfizenmaier argued Newton was neither \"orthodox\" nor an Arian, but that, rather, Newton believed both of these groups had wandered into metaphysical speculation. Pfizenmaier also argued that Newton held closer to the Eastern Orthodox view of the Trinity rather than the Western one held by Roman Catholics and Protestants. However, S. D. Snobelen has argued against this from manuscripts produced late in Newton's life which demonstrate Newton rejected the Eastern view of the Trinity.\n\nNewton refused \"\" before his death.\n\nNewton saw God as the masterful creator whose existence could not be denied in the face of the grandeur of all creation. Nevertheless, he rejected Leibniz' thesis that God would necessarily make a perfect world which requires no intervention from the creator. In Query 31 of the \"Opticks\", Newton simultaneously made an argument from design and for the necessity of intervention:\n\nThis passage prompted an attack by Leibniz in a letter to his friend Caroline of Ansbach:\n\nLeibniz' letter initiated the Leibniz-Clarke correspondence, ostensibly with Newton's friend and disciple Samuel Clarke, although as Caroline wrote, Clarke's letters \"are not written without the advice of the Chev. Newton\".\nClarke complained that Leibniz' concept of God as a \"supra-mundane intelligence\" who set up a \"pre-established harmony\" was only a step from atheism: \"And as those men, who pretend that in an earthly government things may go on perfectly well without the king himself ordering or disposing of any thing, may reasonably be suspected that they would like very well to set the king aside: so, whosoever contends, that the beings of the world can go on without the continual direction of God...his doctrine does in effect tend to exclude God out of the world\".\n\nIn addition to stepping in to re-form the solar system, Newton invoked God's active intervention to prevent the stars falling in on each other, and perhaps in preventing the amount of motion in the universe from decaying due to viscosity and friction. In private correspondence Newton sometimes hinted that the force of Gravity was due to an immaterial influence:\n\nLeibniz jibed that such an immaterial influence would be a continual miracle; this was another strand of his debate with Clarke.\n\nNewton's view has been considered to be close to deism and several biographers and scholars labeled him as a deist who is strongly influenced by Christianity. However, he differed from strict adherents of deism in that he invoked God as a special physical cause to keep the planets in orbits. He warned against using the law of gravity to view the universe as a mere machine, like a great clock. He said:\n\nOn the other hand, latitudinarian and Newtonian ideas taken too far resulted in the millenarians, a religious faction dedicated to the concept of a mechanical universe, but finding in it the same enthusiasm and mysticism that the Enlightenment had fought so hard to extinguish. Newton himself may have had some interest in millenarianism as he wrote about both the Book of Daniel and the Book of Revelation in his Observations Upon the Prophecies.\n\nNewton's conception of the physical world provided a stable model of the natural world that would reinforce stability and harmony in the civic world.\n\nNewton spent a great deal of time trying to discover hidden messages within the Bible. After 1690, Newton wrote a number of religious tracts dealing with the literal interpretation of the Bible. In a manuscript Newton wrote in 1704 he describes his attempts to extract scientific information from the Bible. He estimated that the world would end no earlier than 2060. In predicting this he said \"This I mention not to assert when the time of the end shall be, but to put a stop to the rash conjectures of fanciful men who are frequently predicting the time of the end, and by doing so bring the sacred prophesies into discredit as often as their predictions fail.\"\n\nNewton relied upon the existing Scripture for prophecy, believing his interpretations would set the record straight in the face of what he considered to be, \"so little understood\". Though he would never write a cohesive body of work on Prophecy, Newton's beliefs would lead him to write several treatises on the subject, including an unpublished guide for prophetic interpretation entitled \"Rules for interpreting the words & language in Scripture\". In this manuscript he details the necessary requirements for what he considered to be the proper interpretation of the Bible.\n\nIn his posthumously-published \"Observations upon the Prophecies of Daniel, and the Apocalypse of St. John\", Newton expressed his belief that Bible prophecy would not be understood \"until the time of the end\", and that even then \"none of the wicked shall understand\". Referring to that as a future time (\"the last age, the age of opening these things, be now approaching\"), Newton also anticipated \"the general preaching of the Gospel be approaching\" and \"the Gospel must first be preached in all nations before the great tribulation, and end of the world\".\n\nOver the years, a large amount of media attention and public interest has circulated regarding largely unknown and unpublished documents, evidently written by Isaac Newton, that indicate he believed the world could end in 2060. While Newton also had many other possible dates (e.g. 2034), he did not believe that the end of the world would take place specifically in 2060.\n\nLike most Protestant theologians of his time, Newton believed that the Papal Office, (and not any one particular Pope) was the fulfillment of the Biblical predictions about Antichrist, whose rule was predicted to last for 1,260 years. They applied the day-year principle (in which a day represents a year in prophecy) to certain key verses in the books of Daniel and Revelation (also known as the Apocalypse), and looked for significant dates in the Papacy's rise to power to begin this timeline. Newton's calculation ending in 2060 is based on the 1,260-year timeline commencing in 800 AD when Charlemagne became the first Holy Roman Emperor and reconfirmed the earlier (756 AD) Donation of Pepin to the Papacy.\n\nHowever, between the time he wrote his 2060 prediction (about 1704) until his death in 1727 Newton conversed, both first hand and by correspondence, with other famous theologians of his time. Those contemporaries who knew him during the remaining 23 years of his life appear to be in agreement that Newton, and the \"best interpreters\" including Jonathan Edwards, Robert Fleming, Moses Lowman, Phillip Doddridge, and Bishop Thomas Newton, were eventually \"pretty well agreed\" that the 1,260-year timeline should be calculated from the year 756 AD.\n\nF.A. Cox also confirmed that this was the view of Newton and others, including himself:\n\nThomas Williams stated that this timeline had become the predominant view among the leading Protestant theologians of his time:\nIn April of 756 AD, Pepin, King of France, accompanied by Pope Stephen II entered northern Italy, forcing the Lombard King Aistulf to lift his siege of Rome, and return to Pavia. Following Aistulf's capitulation, Pepin gave the newly conquered territories to the Papacy by means of the Donation of Pepin, thereby elevating the Pope from being a subject of the Byzantine Empire to head of state, with temporal power over the newly constituted Papal States. \n\nThe end of the timeline is based on Daniel 8:25 which reads \"...but he shall be broken without hand\" and is understood to mean that the end of the Papacy with not be caused by any human action. Volcanic activity is described as the means by which Rome will be overthrown.\n\nIn 1870 the newly formed Kingdom of Italy annexed the remaining Papal States, depriving the Popes of any temporal rule for the next 59 years. Unaware that Papal rule would be restored, (albeit on a greatly diminished scale) in 1929 as head of the Vatican City state, the historicist view that the Papacy is the Antichrist, and the associated timelines delineating his rule rapidly declined in popularity as one of the defining characteristics of the Antichrist (i.e. that he would also be a political temporal power at the time of the return of Jesus) were no longer met. \n\nEventually, the prediction was largely forgotten and no major Protestant denomination currently subscribes to this timeline.\n\nDespite the dramatic nature of a prediction of the end of the world, Newton may not have been referring to the 2060 date as a destructive act resulting in the annihilation of the earth and its inhabitants, but rather one in which he believed the world was to be replaced with a new one based upon a transition to an era of divinely inspired peace. In Christian theology, this concept is often referred to as The Second Coming of Jesus Christ and the establishment of Paradise by The Kingdom of God on Earth.\n\nHenry More's belief in the universe and rejection of Cartesian dualism may have influenced Newton's religious ideas. Later works—\"The Chronology of Ancient Kingdoms Amended\" (1728) and \"Observations Upon the Prophecies of Daniel and the Apocalypse of St. John\" (1733)—were published after his death.\n\nNewton and Boyle's mechanical philosophy was promoted by rationalist pamphleteers as a viable alternative to the pantheists and enthusiasts, and was accepted hesitantly by orthodox clergy as well as dissident preachers like the latitudinarians. The clarity and simplicity of science was seen as a way in which to combat the emotional and mystical superlatives of superstitious enthusiasm, as well as the threat of atheism.\n\nThe attacks made against pre-Enlightenment magical thinking, and the mystical elements of Christianity, were given their foundation with Boyle's mechanical conception of the universe. Newton gave Boyle's ideas their completion through mathematical proofs, and more importantly was very successful in popularizing them. Newton refashioned the world governed by an interventionist God into a world crafted by a God that designs along rational and universal principles. These principles were available for all people to discover, allowed man to pursue his own aims fruitfully in this life, not the next, and to perfect himself with his own rational powers.\n\nHis first writing on the subject of religion was \"Introductio. Continens Apocalypseos rationem generalem\" (\"Introduction. Containing an explanation of the Apocalypse\"), which has an unnumbered leaf between folios 1 and 2 with the subheading \"De prophetia prima\", written in Latin some time prior to 1670. Written subsequently in English was \"Notes on early Church history and the moral superiority of the 'barbarians' to the Romans\". His last writing, in 1737, was entitled \"A Dissertation upon the Sacred Cubit of the Jews and the Cubits of the several Nations\".\nNewton did not publish any of his works of biblical study during his lifetime. All of Newton's writings on corruption in biblical scripture and the church took place after the late 1670s and prior to the middle of 1690.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40167151", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40167151", "title": "Samadhi (shrine)", "text": "Samadhi (shrine)\n\nSamādhi (Hindi: समाधि) or samadhi mandir is the Hindi name for a temple commemorating the dead (similar to a tomb or mausoleum), which may or may not contain the body of the deceased. Samadhi sites are often built in this way to honor people regarded as saints or gurus in Hindu religious traditions, wherein such souls are said to have passed into \"mahāsamādhi\", or were already in \"samādhi\" (non-dualistic state of consciousness) at the time of death. \n\nThe tradition of India is cremation for most Hindu people at the time of death, while samadhi is generally reserved for very advanced souls, such as yogis and saints, who have already been \"purified by the fire of yoga\" or who are believed to have been in the state of \"samadhi\" at time of death. Samadhi doesn’t involve cremation.\n\nOne of the popular site of pilgrimage in India is the town of Alandi in the state of Maharashtra where the 13th century Varkari saint Dnyaneshwar took Sanjivan Samadhi or entombed himself in the state of Samadhi.His devotees believe that he is still alive.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1979799", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1979799", "title": "Shitao", "text": "Shitao\n\nShitao or Shi Tao (; 1642–1707), born into the Ming dynasty imperial clan as Zhu Ruoji (朱若極), was a Chinese landscape painter in the early Qing Dynasty (1644–1911).\n\nBorn in Quanzhou County in Guangxi province, Shitao was a member of the royal house descended from the elder brother of Zhu Yuanzhang. He narrowly avoided catastrophe in 1644 when the Ming Dynasty fell to invading Manchus and civil rebellion. Having escaped by chance from the fate to which his lineage would have assigned him, He assumed the name Yuanji Shitao no later than 1651 when he became a Buddhist monk.\n\nHe moved from Wuchang, where he began his religious instruction, to Anhui in the 1660s. Throughout the 1680s he lived in Nanjing and Yangzhou, and in 1690 he moved to Beijing to find patronage for his promotion within the monastic system. Frustrated by his failure to find a patron, Shitao converted to Daoism in 1693 and returned to Yangzhou where he remained until his death in 1707. In his late years, he is said to have greeted Kangxi Emperor visiting Yangzhou. Geyuan Garden grows Chinese bamboo variations that Shitao himself loved.\n\nShitao used over two dozen courtesy names during his life. Both like and unlike Bada Shanren, his feelings for his family history can be deeply felt from these.\n\nAmong the most commonly used names were Shitao (Stone Wave - 石涛), Daoji (道濟; Tao-chi), Kugua Heshang (Bitter Gourd Monk -苦瓜和尚), Yuan Ji (Origin of Salvation - 原濟), Xia Zunzhe (Honorable Blind One - 瞎尊者, blind to worldly desires), Dadizi (The Cleansed One - 大滌子).\n\nAs a buddhist convert, he was also known with the monastic name Yuan Ji (原濟)\n\nDa Dizi was taken when Shitao renounced his Buddhism and turned to Daoism. It was also the name he used for his home in Yangzhou (Da Di Hall - 大滌堂).\n\nShitao is one of the most famous individualist painters of the early Qing years. The art he created was revolutionary in its transgressions of the rigidly codified techniques and styles that dictated what was considered beautiful. Imitation was valued over innovation, and although Shitao was clearly influenced by his predecessors (namely Ni Zan and Li Yong), his art breaks with theirs in several new and fascinating ways.\n\nHis formal innovations in depiction include drawing attention to the act of painting itself through his use of washes and bold, impressionistic brushstrokes, as well as an interest in subjective perspective and the use of negative or white space to suggest distance. Shi Tao's stylistic innovations are difficult to place in the context of the period. In a colophon dated 1686, Shitao wrote: \"In painting, there are the Southern and the Northern schools, and in calligraphy, the methods of the Two Wangs (Wang Xizhi and his son Wang Xianzhi). Zhang Rong (443–497) once remarked, 'I regret not that I do not share the Two Wangs' methods, but that the Two Wangs did not share my methods.' If someone asks whether I [Shitao] follow the Southern or the Northern School, or whether either school follows me, I hold my belly laughing and reply, 'I always use my own method!'\"\n\nThe poetry and calligraphy that accompany his landscapes are just as beautiful, irreverent, and vivid as the paintings they complement. His paintings exemplify the internal contradictions and tensions of the literati or scholar-amateur artist, and they have been interpreted as an invective against art-historical canonization.\n\n\"10,000 Ugly Inkblots\" is a perfect example of Shitao's subversive and ironic aesthetic principles. This uniquely apperceptive work challenges accepted standards of beauty. As the carefully painted landscape degenerates into Pollock-esque splatters, the viewer is forced to recognize that the painting is not transparent (immediate, in the most literal sense meaning without media) in the way it initially purports to be. Solely because they are labeled \"ugly,\" the ink dots begin to take on a sort of abstract beauty.\n\n\"Reminiscences of Qinhuai\" is another of Shitao's unique paintings. Like many of the paintings from the late Ming Dynasty and early Manchurian sovereignty it deals with man's place in nature. Upon a first viewing, however, the craggy peak in this painting seems somewhat distorted. What makes this painting so unique is that it appears to depict the mountain bowing. A monk stands placidly on a boat that floats along the Qin-Huai river, staring up in admiration at the genuflecting stone giant. The economy of respect that circulates between man and nature is explored here in a sophisticated style reminiscent of surrealism or magical realism, and bordering on the absurd. Shitao himself had visited the river and the surrounding region in the 1680s, but it is unknown whether the album that contains this painting depicts specific places. Re-presentation itself is the only way the feeling of mutual respect that Shitao depicts in this painting could be communicated; the subject of a personified mountain simply defies anything simpler.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1723089", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1723089", "title": "Shrine of Bahá'u'lláh", "text": "Shrine of Bahá'u'lláh\n\nThe Shrine of Bahá'u'lláh, located in Bahjí near Acre, Israel, is the most holy place for Bahá'ís and represents their Qiblih, or direction of prayer. It contains the remains of Bahá'u'lláh and is near the spot where he died in the Mansion of Bahjí. \n\nThe Shrine of Bahá'u'lláh is composed of a central area that contains a small, tree-filled garden surrounded by paths covered with Persian rugs. A glass roof was constructed by Qulám-‘Alíy-i-Najjár after the death of Bahá'u'lláh. At the northwest corner of the central area there is a small room containing Bahá'u'lláh's remains. The central area has doors to a number of other rooms that have, in recent years, been opened to accommodate the growing number of pilgrims and visitors.\n\nThe shrine, after `Abdu'l-Bahá's death, was occupied by Mírzá Muhammad `Alí and his supporters, who forcibly took the keys to the shrine in January 1922. The governor of Acre ordered the keys to be returned to the authorities and a guard was posted at the shrine. In early 1923 the keys were returned to Shoghi Effendi. In the 1950s, Shoghi Effendi had made plans for a future superstructure, which would surround the whole area and would include a platform with 95 marble columns, each 6 meters high. Shoghi Effendi has called the shrine the Daryá-yi-Núr (Ocean of Light), which has taken the Kúh-i-Núr (Mountain of Light, the Shrine of the Báb) under its shadow.\n\nThe shrine and its surrounding gardens, as well as the Mansion of Bahjí, was inscribed on the World Heritage List in July 2008.\n\nBahá'u'lláh's son Díyá'u'lláh, who died in 1898, was initially buried next to his father. However, having been declared a Covenant-breaker, Díyá'u'lláh's remains were disinterred in a process of \"purification\" through \"cleansing\" the inner sanctuary of the shrine, occasionally referred to as the \"Qiblih\" of the Bahá'í World at the request of relatives who were opposed to the Covenant-breaker faction of family.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52413454", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52413454", "title": "Shunfeng'er", "text": "Shunfeng'er\n\nShunfeng'er is a Chinese sea and door god. He usually appears with Qianliyan as a guardian of the temples of the sea goddess Mazu.\n\nThe name \"Shunfeng'er\" literally means \"He with Ears that Follow the Wind\" in reference to his ability to hear any sound carried upon the wind. The unusual idiom is translated variously as \"Ears that Hear with the Wind\", \"Ears that Hear what Comes on the Wind\", \"Ears that Hear the Sounds Taken with the Wind\", \"Wind-Accompanying Ears\", \"Downwind Ears\", or even \"Sharp Ears\", \"Far-Hearing\", or \"All-Hearing\". The god's role in helping sailors distinguish favorable winds also prompts the translations \"Fair-Wind Ears\" and \"Favorable-Wind Ears\". \n\nIt also appears as and His partner Qianliyan's name similarly means \"Sharp-Eyed\" or \"All-Seeing\".\n\nUnder the Ming, Shunfeng'er was also known as ShiKuang. He is also sometimes known as Wanli'er, which has similar meaning, as the Chinese word \"wàn\"—like the English \"myriad\"—simultaneously means the number 10,000 and \"innumerable\" or \"uncountably vast\".\n\nShunfeng'er is first attested in the early-16th century novel \"Journey to the West\", where he appears as the personified form of the Taoist Jade Emperor's ears and one of his lieutenants. There is, however, an earlier depiction of him in a Sichuan cave which has been dated to the Southern Song. The Chinese folk tale about the Ten Brothers also probably long predates its first publication during the Ming Dynasty; in it, the eldest two brothers have powers just like those of Qianliyan and Shunfeng'er.\n\nShunfeng'er next appeared as a lieutenant of the Emperor of Flowering Brightness \"Huáguāng Dàdì\") in Yu Xiangdou's \"Journey to the South\" and as a character in Xu Zhonglin's \"Creation of the Gods\". He was confused with the door god Yulü \"Yùlǜ\").\n\nShunfeng'er's sharp hearing is employed to help sailors distinguish favorable winds from coming storms. In some accounts, he is capable of hearing everything in the world, no matter how quietly spoken, and was therefore also worshipped as a witness and guarantor of oaths and contracts.\n\nShunfeng'er is most often portrayed as a demon defeated and tamed or befriended by the sea goddess Mazu. By one account, he and Qianliyan appeared off Meizhou Island during a storm and were defeated by Mazu's magical silk scarf, which blew clouds of sand into their ears and eyes. After their submission, they pledged their loyalty when she kindly healed them of the damage she had caused them. In another, the two were Song generals who competed for her hand at Peach Blossom Mountain \"Táohuā Shān\") but were both defeated by her kung fu. In another, the two were the brothers Gao Jue and Gao Ming. Ruthless generals, they fell at Peach Blossom Mountain and subsequently haunted it as demons. They appeared to Mazu when she traveled nearby and challenged her to battle, with the loser to do the winner's bidding. They intended to have her marry them both but were defeated by her magic and became her servants. In still another, the Gao brothers were bandits during the Shang before they began to haunt the mountain. \n\nIn still another account, the pair were originally warriors or guards of King Zhou of Shang. In this version of the story, they are sometimes said to have already possessed their superhuman powers and to have used them to foil the first moves towards rebellion by the Zhou. Ji Fa's advisor Jiang Ziya is made out to have been a Taoist adept, however, who uses the esoteric knowledge he received from the Primordial Lord of Heaven on to defeat them. Their powers fail them when he covers them in the blood of a black dog and Ji Fa is able to triumph at Muye and finally establish himself as the Martial King of Zhou (\"King Wu\").\n\nShunfeng'er most often appears as a door god at Mazuist temples or as a guardian beside Mazu at her altars or on her yellow paper charms. He is separately worshipped in some villages or by mariners for assistance avoiding danger. During the 8-day, annual pilgrimages from Dajia to Beigang, Mazu's idol is accompanied by figures of Shunfeng'er and Qianliyan played by masked men on stilts.\n\nShunfeng'er typically appears as a red- or brown-skinned demon cupping a hand to one of his ears. He also occasionally appears with three heads and six arms. He usually appears to the left of his companion Qianliyan. Sometimes Shunfeng'er appears as the green demon, in which case he usually has one horn and ruby eyes.\n\n"}
{"id": "13222133", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13222133", "title": "Sikh diaspora", "text": "Sikh diaspora\n\nThe Sikh diaspora is the modern Punjabi Sikh migration from the traditional area of the Punjab region. Sikhism is (de facto) an ethnic religion, the Punjab region being the historic homeland of Sikhism. The Sikh diaspora is largely a subset of the Punjabi diaspora.\n\nThe starting point of the diaspora is commonly accepted to have begun after the fall of the Sikh Empire in 1849 and the Empire's subsequent annexation into the British Raj. The most famous personification of the Sikh diaspora was the first, Maharajah Duleep Singh, the last Emperor of the Sikhs who was coerced into a lifetime exile by the British Raj. Since Duleep Singh's exile, the rate of Sikh migration from the Punjab has remained high; however the destination for Punjabi Sikh migrants has changed during the ensuing 150 years. The development of the Punjabi Sikh diaspora concept has given diaspora Sikhs a conscious political and cultural identity, which forms a reference point for their 'Sikhism'.\n\nWith approximately 27 million worldwide Sikhs are adherents to the fifth-largest religion in the world, Sikhism, making up 0.39% of the world population. The 2011 Indian census reported approximately 20.8 million Sikhs living in India. Of these, 16 million, or 76% of all Indian Sikhs, live in the northern state of Punjab (India), where they form 58% of the population. Substantial communities of Sikhs, more than 200,000, live in the Indian states and union territories of Haryana, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Himachal Pradesh, Maharashtra, Uttarakhand and Jammu and Kashmir.\n\nThe Sikhs as a political entity, distinct from other Indian traditions, can be said to have begun with the martyrdom of the fifth Sikh Guru, Guru Arjan Dev Ji in 1606, Sikh distinction was further enhanced by the establishment of the Sikh 'Pure' brotherhood or Khalsa (ਖ਼ਾਲਸਾ), by Guru Gobind Singh Ji in 1699. This gives the Sikhs, as an organized political grouping, a relatively recent history of around 400 years. Migrations of Sikhs during the era of the Gurus were limited to the boundaries of modern-day India and Pakistan, and in particular restricted to the Sikh tribal heartland of the Punjab Region. The development of the Sikh Confederacy and the development of the Sikh Empire (1716–1849), led to Sikhs migrating to conquered parts of their empire such as Ladakh and Peshawar. However these migrations were limited, transitory and unsustained, depending on the Empire's fluctuating boundaries. During the time of the Sikh Empire, there was a net cultural immigration, with Napoleonic and British influences vying for the 'ear' of the then Sikh Maharajah Ranjit Singh. With respect to the Sikh diaspora, the most important political aspect of this period was the historical establishment of a Sikh homeland; the idea of a powerful Sikh state was a reality.\n\nSikh migration from the Punjab began in earnest in the second half of the 19th century when the British Raj had successfully completed its annexation of the Punjab. The pivotal action in the British annexation was the lifetime exile of the then eleven-year-old Maharaja, Duleep Singh, thus making Singh the first (although unwilling) member of the Sikh diaspora.\n\nAlthough a largely secular figure who did little for the Sikh body politic, Axel (2001) argues that Duleep Singh's exile has had a major impact on the Sikh diaspora psyche. Axel(2001) says that Duleep Singh is the archetypal 'tragic hero' figure in Sikh culture, \"a King without a Kingdom, a Sikh separated from his people\"; the contrast between Duleep Singh and his strong ruler father, Maharaja Ranjit Singh Ji, makes Duleep's exile even more 'galling' for the Sikhs and results in a strong sense of communal injustice, which is a later trait in the diaspora's development.\n\nHaving annexed the Sikh Kingdom, the British Raj preferentially recruited Sikhs in the Indian Civil Service and, in particular, the British Indian Army, which led to migration of Sikhs to different parts of British India and the British Empire. Semiskilled artisans were transported from the Punjab to British East Africa to help in the building of railways, while many Sikhs found themselves in Australia working as Ghans, or cameleers and as labourers on cane plantations.\n\nThe Sikhs made tremendous contributions to Punjab from 1857 to 1947. Sikhs founded the city of Rawalpindi. Sikh agricultural and entrepreneurial skills brought prosperity to Sheikhupura, Sialkot, Jhelum, Multan, Sargodha, Gujrat, Ludhiana, Amritsar, Jullundar. Lahore, the capital of undivided Punjab, had thriving Sikh neighborhoods.\n\nThe era of peace and prosperity turned into a nightmare in 1947. The partition of Punjab between India and Pakistan was a seminal tragedy for Sikhs. The Sikh communities were practically wiped out from Lahore, Rawalpindi, Multan, Sialkot, Lyallpur, Jhelum, Gujrat, Sargodha, Sheikhupura and other districts of West Punjab. The birthplace of Sikhism, Nankana Sahib, was split away in West Punjab. Millions of Sikhs fled to freedom and safety in East Punjab in India. Such intense violence in East Punjab had caused many villages and cities to go through construction.\n\nIn 1960s and beyond many Sikhs migrated to the UK and North America in search of economic opportunities. Some of the Sikhs who had settled in eastern Africa were expelled by Ugandan leader Idi Amin in 1972. Sikhs are primarily an agrarian community and with the pressures of having only a limited amount of land, high birth rates and the desire to make a better living, the male offspring of Sikh farmers were encouraged to migrate to foreign countries. Subsequently, the main 'push' factor for Sikh migration has been economic with significant Sikh communities now being found in Philippines, Canada, the United Kingdom, the United States, Malaysia, East Africa, Australia and Thailand.\n\nAxel (2001) argues that the Sikh diaspora community, having established themselves in foreign countries, begin to fetishize the past and nurture idealized designs for their 'lost and imaginary' Sikh empire. This comes into fruition to a certain degree with the establishment of Indian Punjab in 1966 as a Sikh majority state. However, Tatla(1998) argues that the marginalization and sense of grievance that Indian Sikhs were facing due to Indira Gandhi's heavy-handed tactics were amplified in the Sikh diaspora. Subsequently, the Sikh diaspora, especially in South Vancouver, Canada and the UK become willing suppliers of logistical and financial support when the organic agitation for a separate Sikh nation, Khalistan, began in the late 1970s. The actions taken by the Indian government to counter the Sikh separatist movement, via 1984's Operation Blue Star, had a seismic effect on the Sikh diaspora. Axel (2001) argues that the desecration of the Sikh's holiest shrine, Harimandir Sahib, and the following Sikh Genocide in which thousands of Sikhs were massacred; led to a resurgence in Sikh religiosity and a strengthening of ties with their Sikh brethren in Punjab. Diaspora Sikhs felt betrayed by India, and the events of 1984 defined their Sikhism and underlined a distinct commonality shared with other diaspora Sikhs. Mark Tully describes 1984's Operation Blue Star as the Sikh's '9/11', this was certainly the case for diaspora Sikhs, who in the main could only watch on in horror as the events of 1984 played out on TV.\n\nIn 1971 Dr Jagit Singh Chohan, an ex-minister in a short-lived government of Akali dissidents, saw an alignment of like-minded Sikhs. Chohan placed a half-page advertisement in \"The New York Times\" of 12 October 1971, making several claims about Punjab as a Sikh homeland. However, Chohan won little sympathy from ordinary Sikhs\n\nTatla summarises the change in Sikh diaspora community leaders post 1984 a being a \"painful transition from a self-confident community with haughty discourse, to the self-defensive strategies of a vulnerable minority\". Organisations such as the International Sikh Youth Federation (ISYF), the Babbar Khalsa and the Council of Khalistan emerged within the diaspora, and these agencies rallied against \"Hindu imperialism\" or \"Indian nationalism\" and lobbied to join the Unrepresented Nations and Peoples Organization UNPO aligning the Sikh cause with other ethnic groups seeking freedom, citing cases of Jews, Palestinians, Kurds, Balochis, Kashmiris and Sri Lankan Tamils.\n\nAxel (2001) argues that the history of the Sikh diaspora, its psyche of grievance and the violence inflicted on it, means that the notion of the Sikh diaspora as a community today inevitably converges on the notion of Khalistan. In addition to this, Axel points out the 'nightmare' scenario facing the Sikh diaspora; the Indian state 'demands' the 'Unity-in-Diversity' model of 'rashtriya ekta' (national integration) which Axel contends is signified by \"the denial of difference through surrender, assimilation and integration\".\n\nSince the formation of the Khalsa, the Sikhs have defined themselves though their 'separateness' and have differentiated themselves philosophically and physically from other Indian religious communities, thus the process of 'rashtriya ekta' is a threat to Sikhi itself. Any 'weakening' or 'dilution' Sikhi in the Punjab, is doubly painful for the Sikh diaspora for it means a corresponding weakness in Khalistan, which, both real and imaginary, epitomizes the Sikh diasporic place today.\n\nWhilst the rate of Sikh migration from the Punjab has remained high, traditional patterns of Sikh migration that favored English speaking countries, particularly the United Kingdom, has changed in the past decade due to factors such as stricter immigration procedures. Moliner(2006) states that as a consequence of the 'fact' that Sikh migration to the UK had \"become virtually impossible since the late 1970s\", Sikh migration patterns altered to continental Europe. Italy has now emerged as a fast-growing area for Sikh migration, with Reggio Emilia and the Vicenza province being areas of significant Sikh population clusters. The Italian Sikhs are generally involved in the areas of agriculture, agro-processing, machine tools and horticulture. Canada has maintained a liberal immigration policy, and the Sikh community there is the second largest in proportion to the country's population after only India (1.4% of Canada's population versus 1.7% of India's), and about 2.5 times the size of the U.S. Sikh community. The largest North American Sikh community is thought to be located in South Vancouver, British Columbia and nearby Surrey, British Columbia, while Brampton, Ontario also has a large Sikh population. The Sikh migration to Australasia has also increased to a large extent in the first decade of the 21st century.\n\nIn the post-9/11 era, the Sikh diaspora in Europe and North America stand out as a visible minority often confused with radical Islamic groups because of their turbans. There have been numerous hate crimes targeted at Sikhs. France banned turban-wearing Sikh students from publicly funded schools as part of a broader policy originally intended to restrict Muslim head-scarves. Western security think-tanks quote the Air India bombing to justify profiling of Sikh travellers at airports. Countering this train of thought, on January 16, 2018, Gurbir Grewal became attorney general of New Jersey - the first practicing Sikh in the US to become a State Attorney General.The soft influences of popular culture and the need for fitting in with peers are driving many young Sikhs to shed Khalsa symbols such as the turban and beard. Some second-generation Sikhs growing up in the West do not have proficiency in the Punjabi language. On the other hand, small groups of Westerners have converted to Sikhism. There are now Sikh Gurduwaras (equilvalent of churches and temples) scattered across Europe, North America, Australia and Malaysia. The combination of these factors creates a new and more complex Sikh identity that may slowly emerge in the 21st century.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2420481", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2420481", "title": "Spiritual Direction of the Muslims of Crimea", "text": "Spiritual Direction of the Muslims of Crimea\n\nThe Spiritual Direction of the Muslims of Crimea (SDMC) (; ) is the central administrative body for the Islamic faith in Crimea. It was established in 1991.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31155", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31155", "title": "Taxil hoax", "text": "Taxil hoax\n\nThe Taxil hoax was an 1890s hoax of exposure by Léo Taxil intended to mock not only Freemasonry but also the Catholic Church's opposition to it.\nLéo Taxil was the pen name of Marie Joseph Gabriel Antoine Jogand-Pagès, who had been accused earlier of libel regarding a book he wrote called \"The Secret Loves of Pope Pius IX\". On April 20, 1884, Pope Leo XIII published an encyclical, \"Humanum genus\", that said that the human race was\nAfter this encyclical, Taxil underwent a public, feigned conversion to Roman Catholicism and announced his intention of repairing the damage he had done to the true faith.\n\nThe first book produced by Taxil after his conversion was a four-volume history of Freemasonry, which contained fictitious eyewitness verifications of their participation in Satanism. With a collaborator who published as \"Dr. Karl Hacks\", Taxil wrote another book called \"The Devil in the Nineteenth Century\", which introduced a new character, Diana Vaughan, a supposed descendant of the Rosicrucian alchemist Thomas Vaughan. The book contained many tales about her encounters with incarnate demons, one of whom was supposed to have written prophecies on her back with its tail, and another who played the piano in the shape of a crocodile.\n\nDiana was supposedly involved in Satanic freemasonry but was redeemed when one day she professed admiration for Joan of Arc, at whose name the demons were put to flight. As Diana Vaughan, Taxil published a book called \"Eucharistic Novena\", a collection of prayers which were praised by the Pope.\n\nOn April 19, 1897, Taxil called a press conference at which he said he would introduce Diana Vaughan to the press. He instead announced that his revelations about the Freemasons were fictitious. He thanked the clergy for their assistance in giving publicity to his wild claims.\n\nThe confession was printed, in its entirety, in the Parisian newspaper \"Le Frondeur\", on April 25, 1897, titled: \"Twelve Years Under the Banner of the Church, The Prank Of Palladism. Miss Diana Vaughan–The Devil At The Freemasons. A Conference held by M. Léo Taxil, at the Hall of the Geographic Society in Paris\".\n\nThe hoax material is still used to this day. Chick Publications publishes such a tract called \"The Curse of Baphomet\" and Randy Noblitt's book on satanic ritual abuse, \"Cult and Ritual Abuse\", also cites the Taxil hoax.\n\nIn the magazine \"National Magazine, an Illustrated American Monthly\", Volume XXIV: April – September, 1906, pages 228 and 229, Taxil is quoted as giving his true reasons behind the hoax. Ten months later, on March 31, 1907, Taxil died.\n\nA series of paragraphs about Lucifer are frequently associated with the Taxil hoax. They read:\nWhile this quotation was published by Abel Clarin de la Rive in his \"Woman and Child in Universal Freemasonry\", it does not appear in Taxil's writings proper, though it is sourced in a footnote to Diana Vaughan, Taxil's creation.\n\nList of hoaxes\n\n"}
{"id": "50611712", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50611712", "title": "The Boomerang Book of Legendary Tales", "text": "The Boomerang Book of Legendary Tales\n\nThe Boomerang Book of Legendary Tales (1957) is an anthology of indigenous myths and legends for children, compiled by Australian author Enid Moodie Heddle, illustrated by Nancy Parker. It won the in 1957.\n\nThis anthology contains a selection of Australian Aboriginal legends, and myths from New Zealand, Fiji, New Guinea, Tonga, Borneo, Micronesia and the Solomon Islands.\n\nIn a survey of possible Christmas book gifts for children in \"The Age\" in 1957, Dennis Dugan noted: \"Miss Moodie Heddle has drawn on the work of such writers as Mrs. Langloh Parker, Mervyn Skipper, Roland Robinson, Eve Grey, Dal Stivens and Lance Skuthorpe for this excellent collection.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "9989711", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9989711", "title": "The Light of Kailasa", "text": "The Light of Kailasa\n\nThe Light of Kailasa is a Hindu movement originally from Belarus. It is a part of the Saivite movement. It was banned by government authorities in Belarus. \n\nIn 2002, the main activists of the movement — Tatiana Akadanova (now in USA as refugee), Sergei Akadanov (now in USA as refugee) and Sergei Olisevich — were sentenced to prison terms. Hindu activists Sergei Romanchik, Tatiana Zhilevich, Sergei Silybins, Irina Silybins, Igor Yusupov and Irina Golovina were also imprisoned. In 2003 group leader Natalya Solovyova and other followers were attacked by police. Many of the followers were imprisoned, while the rest fled to USA and other countries. Now there is no organized activity of this movement in Belarus.\n\nBelarus Hinduism\n\nPersecution of Hindus\n\n"}
{"id": "7777253", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7777253", "title": "Valuka Iswar", "text": "Valuka Iswar\n\nIn Hinduism, Valuka Iswar is an Avatar or form of Lord Shiva, which literally means an idol made of sand, Sanskrit:\"valuka\"= Sand, Ishwara= Lord, ().\n\nThe ancient Walkeshwar Temple in the Indian city of Mumbai was built under the supervision of minister Lakshman Prabhu of the Silhara dynasty to commemorate and worship Valuka Iswar.\n"}
{"id": "305573", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305573", "title": "Zhiyi", "text": "Zhiyi\n\nZhiyi () (538–597 CE) is traditionally listed as the fourth patriarch, but is generally considered the founder of the Tiantai tradition of Buddhism in China. His standard title was Śramaṇa Zhiyi (Ch. 沙門智顗), linking him to the broad tradition of Indian asceticism. Zhiyi is famous for being the first in the history of Chinese Buddhism to elaborate a complete, critical and systematic classification of the Buddhist teachings. He is also regarded as the first major figure to make a significant break from the Indian tradition, to form an indigenous Chinese system.\n\nBorn with the surname Chen () in Huarong District, Jing Prefecture (now Hubei), Zhiyi left home to become a monk at eighteen, after the loss of his parents and his hometown Jiangling that fell to the Western Wei army when Zhiyi was seventeen. At 23, he received his most important influences from his first teacher, Nanyue Huisi (515–577 CE), a meditation master who would later be listed as Zhiyi's predecessor in the Tiantai lineage. After a period of study with Huisi (560–567), he spent some time working in the southern capital of Jiankang. Then in 575 he went to Tiantai mountain for intensive study and practice with a group of disciples. Here he worked on adapting the Indian meditation principles of śamatha and vipaśyanā (translated as \"zhi\" and \"guan\") into a complex system of self-cultivation practice that also incorporated devotional rituals and confession/repentance rites. Then in 585 he returned to Jinling, where he completed his monumental commentarial works on the Lotus Sutra, the Fahua wenzhu (587 CE), and the Fahua xuanyi (593 CE).\n\nChappell holds that Zhiyi: \"...provided a religious framework which seemed suited to adapt to other cultures, to evolve new practices, and to universalize Buddhism.\"\n\nZhiyi and Bodhidharma were contemporaneous, though Zhiyi had royal patronage whilst Bodhidharma did not.\n\nZhiyi's \"Lesser treatise on Concentration and Insight\" (\"Xiao Zhiguan\"/\"Hsiao chih-kuan\") was probably the first practical manual of meditation available to the Chinese and with its direct influence on the Tso-chan-i was very influential in the development of Chan meditation.\n\nRujun Wu identifies the of Zhiyi as the seminal text of the Tiantai school. Among Zhiyi's many important works are the \"Liumiao Famen\", , and . Of the works attributed to him (although many may have been written by his disciples), about thirty are extant.\n\nZhiyi developed a curriculum of practice which was distilled into the 'Four Samadhis' (Chinese: 四種三昧; pinyin: si zhong sanmei). These Four Samadhi were expounded in Zhiyi's 'Mohe Zhiguan' (Chinese: 摩訶止観, Jpn.: \"Makashikan\"). The \"Mohe Zhiguan\" is the magnum opus of Zhiyi's maturity and is held to be a \"grand summary\" of the Buddhist Tradition according to his experience and understanding at that time. The text of the \"Mohe Zhiguan\" was refined from lectures Zhiyi gave in 594 in the capital city of Jinling and was the sum of his experience at Mount Tiantai c.585 and inquiry thus far. Parsing the title, 'zhi' refers to \"ch’an meditation and the concentrated and quiescent state attained thereby\" and 'guan' refers to \"contemplation and the wisdom attained thereby\". Swanson reports that Zhiyi held that there are two modes of zhi-guan: that of sitting in meditation 坐, and that of “responding to objects in accordance with conditions” 歷緣對境, which is further refined as abiding in the natural state of a calm and insightful mind under any and all activities and conditions.\n\nSwanson states that Zhiyi in the \"Mohe Zhiguan\":\n\n...is critical of an unbalanced emphasis on “meditation alone,” portraying it as a possible “extreme” view and practice, and offering instead the binome zhi-guan 止觀 (calming/cessation and\ninsight/contemplation, śamatha-vipaśyanā) as a more comprehensive term for Buddhist practice.\nThe \"Samadhi of One Practice\" (Skt. \"Ekavyūha Samādhi\"; Ch. 一行三昧) which is also known as the \"samadhi of oneness\" or the \"calmness in which one realizes that all dharmas are the same\" (\"Wing-tsit Chan\"), is one of the \"Four Samadhi\" that both refine, mark the passage to, and qualify the state of perfect enlightenment expounded in the \"Mohe Zhiguan\". The term \"Samadhi of Oneness\" was subsequently used by Daoxin.\n\nThe Four Samadhis are:\n\n\nIn order to provide a comprehensive framework for Buddhist doctrine, Zhiyi classified the various Buddhist sutras into the Five Periods and Eight Teachings (). These were also known as \"goji hakkyō\" in Japanese and \"osi palgyo\" (오시팔교) in Korean. According to Zhiyi, the five periods of the Buddha's teachings were as follows:\n\n\nThese were compared in order to the five stages of milk: fresh milk, cream, curds, butter and ghee (clarified butter).\n\nFurther. the teachings of the Buddha were organized into four types based on the capacity of listener:\n\nand four types of sources:\n\nTogether these were the Eight Teachings of the Buddha attributed to Zhiyi.\n\nZhiyi taught the principle of Three Thousand Realms in a Single Thought Moment (一念三千) (J. \"Ichinen Sanzen\") in his 'Great Concentration and Insight', based on the Lotus Sutra. The number 'Three Thousand' is derived from the Ten Worlds, multiplied by ten [because of the Mutual Possession of the Ten Worlds], which gives 100, multiplied by ten [the Ten Factors listed in Ch. 2 of the Lotus Sutra which gives 1,000. 1,000 multiplied by 3 [the Three Realms of Existence: Self, Other, and Environment] which gives 3,000.\n\nVolume 5 of Great Concentration and Insight states: \n\n\n\n"}
