{"id": "4374651", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4374651", "title": "Aimée du Buc de Rivéry", "text": "Aimée du Buc de Rivéry\n\nAimée du Buc de Rivéry (4 December 1768 – ?) was a French heiress who went missing at sea as a young woman. There is an unsubstantiated legend that she was captured by Barbary pirates, sold as a harem concubine, and was the same person as Nakşîdil Sultan, a Valide Sultan (Queen Mother) of the Ottoman Empire; there is no evidence of this.\n\nAimée was born 4 December 1768, the daughter of wealthy French plantation owner Henri du Buc de Rivery (1748 - 1808) and Marie Anne Arbousset-Beaufond (1739 - 1811) in Pointe Royale, south-west of Robert on the Caribbean island of Martinique. Through marriage, she was an eighth cousin-in-law, once removed, of Empress Josephine. via Josephine's first marriage with Alexandre de Beauharnais, who had been executed during the Reign of Terror.\n\nHaving been sent to a convent school in France, she was returning home, in July or August 1788, when the ship on which she traveled vanished at sea. It is theorized that the ship was attacked and taken by Barbary pirates. It has been further suggested that she was enslaved, and eventually sent to Constantinople as a gift to the Ottoman Sultan by the Bey of Algiers.\n\nN.B. The legend of Aimée being Valide Sultan Nakşidil of the Ottoman palace harem is not rooted in historical fact.\n\nAccording to the legend, Aimée became the wife of the sultan, taking the name of Nakşidil, who introduced French ideas to the sultan, and so to the Ottoman people. It has been theorized that her French-style reforms may have led to his death at the hands of the Janissaries and the Ulema, since both groups opposed liberalization of the empire. During the rule of Abdul Hamid I, She taught him French and, for the first time, a permanent ambassador was sent from Constantinople to Paris. Selim III, a son of Abdul Hamid I who later succeeded him as Sultan, started a French newspaper. He also allowed Nakşidil to decorate the palace in rococo style, which was popular in France at that time.\n\nThe legend of Aimée as Nakşidil continues, claiming that she had accepted Islam as part of the harem etiquette, as well as the religion of her husband, yet always remained a Roman Catholic in her heart. Her last wish was for a priest to perform the last rites. Her son, the sultan, did not deny her this: as Aimée lay dying, a priest passed for the first time through the Seraglio, to perform the Holy Sacrament before her death. Her tomb lies not far from the Hagia Sophia.\n\nResearchers have looked into the alleged history of Aimée du Buc de Rivéry in the royal harem and found it implausible.\nAccording to Turkish historian Necdet Sakaoğlu, Nakşîdil Sultan was ethnically Georgian in origin.\n\nWhile several stories state that Aimée was abducted in 1781 - untrue but early enough that the seventeen year old could have been the mother of Mahmud II, born in 1785 - other stories account for the fact that Aimée was well in France with her family until the year 1788 at least. In the latter recounts of the tale, Aimée is only the foster mother to Mahmud II, while his birth mother died in his childhood.\n\nNone of the fictional accounts however are considering the single contemporary (yet also unreliable) source from the year 1817: Nakşidil was reportedly abducted when she was still two years old. That version of her story makes it impossible for her to be identical with the missing Aimée.\n\nRobert Vine wrote: \"The myth of two cousins from a island becoming respectively the wife of the French Emperor and the mother of the Ottoman Sultan has an obvious romantic attraction - but by the same token, is highly improbable, unless provided with solid factual proof\".\n\nThere are however indications that the seeds of the legend have been carefully planted. Several older myths, dating back even to the early 16th century, already purported connections between the French and the Ottoman monarchy, but have been traced to be politically motivated fabrications, so that alliances between the respective monarchs were seen as justifiable. The Aimée-Nakşidil tale distinctly parallels to these older tales. In times of monarchy, the stories about abducted French princesses weren't repudiated to maintain good relations - in fact, both Napoleon III and Abdülaziz were pleased to announce their kinship to each other, years later. In later times this and similar harem tales have been used to perpetuate the prejudice of Turkey, the Middle East and the Islam in general as mysterious and despotic in nature, despite more accurate accounts available. The legend furthermore reinforced prejudices of the Ottoman Empire as a backwater country, where even a western slave consort was able to initiate an overdue modernization while the primitive natives couldn't conceive necessary reforms.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1791641", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1791641", "title": "Amende honorable", "text": "Amende honorable\n\nAmende honorable was originally a mode of punishment in France which required the offender, barefoot and stripped to his shirt, and led into a church or auditory with a torch in his hand and a rope round his neck held by the public executioner, to beg pardon on his knees of his God, his king, and his country; now used to denote a satisfactory apology or reparation. Amende honorable forbade revenge.\n\nThe \"amende honorable\" was sometimes incorporated into a larger ritual of capital punishment (specifically the French version of drawing and quartering) for parricides and regicides; this is described in the 1975 book \"Discipline and Punish\" by Michel Foucault, notably in reference to Robert-François Damiens who was condemned to make the \"amende honorable\" before the main door of the Church of Paris in 1757.\n"}
{"id": "24280486", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24280486", "title": "Bidirectional traffic", "text": "Bidirectional traffic\n\nIn transportation infrastructure, a bidirectional traffic system divides travelers into two streams of traffic that flow in opposite directions.\n\nIn the design and construction of tunnels, bidirectional traffic can markedly affect ventilation considerations.\n\nMicroscopic traffic flow models have been proposed for bidirectional automobile, pedestrian, and railway traffic. Bidirectional traffic can be observed in ant trails and this has been researched for insight into human traffic models. In a macroscopic theory proposed by \"Laval\", the interaction between fast and slow vehicles conforms to the Newell kinematic wave model of moving bottlenecks.\n\nIn air traffic control traffic is normally separated by elevation, with east bound flights at odd thousand feet elevations and west bound flights at even thousand feet elevations (1000 ft ≈ 305m). Above 28,000 ft (~8.5 km) only odd flight levels are used, with FL 290, 330, 370, etc., for eastbound flights and FL 310, 350, 390, etc., for westbound flights. Entry to and exit from airports is always one-way traffic, as runways are chosen to allow aircraft to take off and land into the wind, to reduce ground speed. Even in no wind cases, a preferred calm wind runway and direction is normally chosen and used by all flights, to avoid collisions. In uncontrolled airports, airport information can be obtained from anyone at the airport. Traffic follows a specific traffic pattern, with designated entry and exits. Radio announcements are made, whether anyone is listening or not, to allow any other traffic to be aware of other traffic in the area.\n\nIn the earliest days of railways in the United Kingdom, most lines were built double tracked because of the difficulty of coordinating operations in pre-telegraphy times.\n\nMost modern roads carry bidirectional traffic, although one-way traffic is common in dense urban centres. Bidirectional traffic flow is believed to influence the rate of traffic collisions. In an analysis of head-on collisions, rear-end collisions, and lane-changing collisions based on the Simon-Gutowitz bidirectional traffic model, it was concluded that \"the risk of collisions is important when the density of cars in one lane is small and that of the other lane is high enough\", and that \"heavy vehicles cause an important reduction of traffic flow on the home lane and provoke an increase of the risk of car accident\".\n\nBidirectional traffic is the most common form of flow observed in trails, however, some larger pedestrian concourses exhibit multidirectional traffic.\n\n"}
{"id": "6043096", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6043096", "title": "Clara (rhinoceros)", "text": "Clara (rhinoceros)\n\nClara the rhinoceros (?1738-14 April 1758) was a female Indian rhinoceros who became famous during 17 years of touring Europe in the mid-18th century. She arrived in Europe in Rotterdam in 1741, becoming the fifth living rhinoceros to be seen in Europe in modern times since Dürer's Rhinoceros in 1515. After tours through towns in the Dutch Republic, the Holy Roman Empire, Switzerland, the Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth, France, the Kingdom of the Two Sicilies, the Papal States, Bohemia and Denmark, she died in Lambeth, England.\n\nIn 1738, aged approximately one month, Clara was adopted by Jan Albert Sichterman in India after her mother was killed by Indian hunters. Sichterman was the director of the Dutch East India Company (\"Vereenigde Oostindische Compagnie\" or VOC) in Bengal. She became quite tame, and was allowed to move freely around his residence. In 1740, Sichterman either sold or gave her as a gift to Douwe Mout van der Meer, captain of the \"Knappenhof\", who returned to the Netherlands with Clara. Captain Van der Meer would become Clara's agent and companion until her death.\n\nClara disembarked at Rotterdam on 22 July 1741 and was immediately exhibited to the public. Clara was exhibited in Antwerp and Brussels in 1743 and in Hamburg in 1744. The exhibitions were so successful that Douwe Mout van der Meer left the VOC in 1744 to tour Europe with his rhinoceros. He had a special wooden carriage built to convey her, and her skin was kept moist with fish oil. The tour started in earnest in spring 1746, and proved to be an outstanding success. Clara visited Hanover and Berlin, where King Frederick II of Prussia saw her on 26 April in Spittelmarkt. The tour continued to Frankfurt an der Oder, Breslau, and Vienna, where Emperor Francis I and Empress Maria-Theresa saw her on 5 November.\n\nIn 1747, she travelled to Regensburg, Freiberg and Dresden, where she posed for Johann Joachim Kaendler from the Meissen porcelain factory and was visited on 19 April by Augustus III, Elector of Saxony and King of Poland. She was in Leipzig on 23 April for Easter, and visited the orangery of the castle of Kassel at the invitation of Frederick II, Landgrave of Hesse. In November she visited the \"Gasthof zum Pfau\" \"(The Peacock Inn)\" in Mannheim, and she was in Strasbourg in December for Christmas.\n\nIn 1748, she visited Bern, Zürich, Basel, Schaffhausen, Stuttgart, Augsburg, Nuremberg and Würzburg. She returned to Leiden and visited France. She was in Reims in December 1748, and was received by King Louis XV in January 1749 at the royal menagerie in Versailles. She spent 5 months in Paris, creating a sensation: letters, poems, and songs were written about her, and wigs were created \"à la rhinocéros\". Clara was examined by the naturalist Buffon, Jean-Baptiste Oudry painted a life-size portrait of her, and she inspired the French Navy to name a vessel \"Rhinocéros\" in 1751. A drawing based on Oudry's painting appeared in Diderot and D'Alembert's \"Encyclopédie\", and Buffon's \"Histoire naturelle, générale et particulière\".\n\nAt the end of 1749, Clara embarked at Marseilles to travel to Italy. Avoiding the fate of Dürer's Rhinoceros, which drowned in a shipwreck off the Ligurian coast near Porto Venere in 1516, Clara visited Naples and Rome. In March 1750, she visited the Baths of Diocletian. She seems to have rubbed off her horn while in Rome (a common problem for rhinoceroses kept in close confinement, although some reports claim that her horn was cut off in Rome for reasons of safety). A new horn eventually grew in.\n\nShe passed through Bologna in August and Milan in October. She arrived in Venice in January 1751, where she became a major attraction at the carnival and was painted by Pietro Longhi. She passed through Verona on the way back to Vienna. She had reached London by the end of the year, where she was viewed by the British royal family.\n\nLittle is known of her exact movements from 1752 to 1758, but she visited Prague; then Warsaw, Kraków, Danzig and Breslau (a second time) in 1754; and Copenhagen in 1755. She returned to London in 1758, where she was exhibited at the \"Horse and Groom\" in Lambeth, with entry prices of sixpence and one shilling. This was where she died on 14 April, aged about 20.\n\nIn 1991, the Natuurhistorisch Museum in Rotterdam held an exhibition on Clara. In 2008 the Clara Memorial was created at the same museum to mark the 250th death anniversary of the rhinoceros.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "59627", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59627", "title": "Columbine High School massacre", "text": "Columbine High School massacre\n\nThe Columbine High School massacre was a school shooting that occurred on April 20, 1999, at Columbine High School in Columbine, an unincorporated area of Jefferson County (Jeffco), Colorado, United States, near Littleton in the Denver metropolitan area. The perpetrators, twelfth grade (senior) students Eric Harris and Dylan Klebold, murdered 12 students and one teacher. Ten students were murdered in the library.\n\nThey injured 21 additional people with gunshots, and exchanged gunfire with the police. An additional 3 people were injured trying to escape the school. The pair subsequently committed suicide in the library. The crime has inspired several copycats, and \"Columbine\" has become a euphemism for a school shooting. At the time, it was the deadliest school shooting ever.\n\nIn addition to the shootings, the attack involved several homemade bombs. The largest of these were two placed in the cafeteria of the school, car bombs were in the parking lot, and at another location were those intended to divert first responders. The cafeteria and car bombs failed to detonate. The pair's motives remain unclear, but they planned for about a year and wished the massacre to rival the Oklahoma City bombing and cause the most deaths in United States history. The attack has been referred to by \"USA Today\" as a \"suicidal attack [that was] planned as a grand—if badly implemented—terrorist bombing.\"\n\nDue to a delay in entering the school, local police have been heavily criticized for not intervening during the shooting. It resulted in the introduction of the Immediate Action Rapid Deployment tactic, used in situations with an active shooter whose goal is to kill rather than take hostages. It also resulted in an increased emphasis on school security with zero tolerance policies, and sparked debate over gun control laws, high school cliques, subcultures, and bullying; as well as a moral panic over goths, gun culture, social outcasts, the use of pharmaceutical antidepressants by teenagers, teenage Internet use and violence in video games.\n\nIn 1996, 15-year old Eric Harris created a private website on America Online (AOL). The site was initially to host levels (WADs) Harris created for use in the first-person shooter video games \"Doom\" and \"Doom II\", as well as \"Quake\". Once the website was made public after the massacre, AOL permanently deleted it from its servers.\n\nOn the site, Harris began a blog, which included jokes and his thoughts on parents, school, and friends. The blog also detailed Harris sneaking out of the house to cause mischief and vandalism, with his friend Dylan Klebold and others, such as lighting fireworks. Rebels are the mascot of Columbine High School (CHS), and he called these \"Rebel Missions\". Harris and Klebold adopted the nicknames \"Reb\" and \"Vodka\" respectively.\n\nBeginning in early 1997, the blog postings began to show the first signs of Harris's ever-growing anger against society. By the end of the year, the site contained instructions on how to make explosives. Harris wrote \"the first true pipe bombs created entirely from scratch by the rebels (REB and VoDkA)...Now our only problem is to find the place that will be 'ground zero.'\"\n\nHarris's site attracted few visitors, and caused no concern until March 1998. Harris ended a blog post detailing murderous fantasies with \"All I want to do is kill and injure as many of you as I can, especially a few people. Like Brooks Brown;\" a classmate of his. Brown claims Klebold gave him the web address, in an effort to warn him of Harris's threats of violence against him. Others suggest it was in fact discovered by Brooks' brother Aaron Brown in 1997.\n\nAfter Brown's parents viewed the site, they contacted the Jeffco Sheriff's Office. When investigator Michael Guerra accessed the website, he discovered numerous violent threats directed against the students and teachers of CHS. Guerra wrote a draft affidavit, requesting a search warrant of the Harris household. The affidavit also mentioned the discovery of an exploded pipe bomb in February 1998, and a suspicion of Harris being involved in the unsolved case. The affidavit was never filed.\n\nOn January 30, 1998, Harris and Klebold broke into a van parked near Littleton and stole tools and computer equipment. Both were caught by a policeman shortly afterwards, arrested and subsequently attended a joint court hearing, where they pled guilty to the felony theft. The judge sentenced them to attend a juvenile diversion program.\n\nAs a result, both attended mandatory classes such as anger management and talked with diversion officers. Harris also began attending therapy with a psychologist, and was prescribed antidepressants by a psychiatrist. They both were eventually released from diversion several weeks early because of positive actions in the program and put on probation. Harris continued his scheduled meetings with his psychologist until a few months before the massacre.\n\nIn Harris's yearbook for 1998, nearly a year before the massacre, Klebold wrote \"killing enemies, blowing up stuff, killing cops!! My wrath for January's incident will be godlike. Not to mention our revenge in the commons.\" The commons was another term for the school cafeteria.\n\nHarris and Klebold both kept journals, which were released to the public in 2006. In the journals, the pair would eventually document their arsenal and plan of attack.\n\nShortly after the court hearing for the van break-in, Harris reverted his website back to just posting user-created levels of \"Doom\". He began to write his thoughts down in a journal instead. It shows a long period of methodical preparation for the massacre. Harris even wrote on his computer about escaping to a foreign country after the attack, or hijacking an aircraft at Denver International Airport and crashing it into New York City.\n\nKlebold had already been writing down his thoughts since March 1997. As early as November 1997, Klebold mentioned going on a killing spree.\n\nHarris and Klebold also incorporated their schoolwork into their pre-massacre activities. They both displayed themes of violence in their creative writing projects. Harris wished for \"a lot of foreshadowing and dramatic irony\" to be involved in the massacre plot. Harris wrote a paper on school shootings, and a poem from the perspective of a bullet. Klebold wrote a short story about a man killing students which worried his teacher so much that she alerted his parents. \n\nBoth had actively researched war and murder. For one project, Harris wrote a paper on the Nazis and Klebold wrote a paper on Charles Manson. In a psychology class, Harris wrote he dreamed of going on a shooting spree with Klebold. Echoing a science class, Harris's journals included several experimental bomb detonations.\n\nBoth Harris and Klebold were enrolled in video production classes. In one video called Radioactive Clothing, they are depicted with fake guns and rigging fake explosives to \"take out another one of those radioactive clothes infested camps\".\n\nWhen an economics class had Harris make an ad for a business, he and Klebold made a video called \"Hitmen for Hire\" on December 8, 1998, which was released in February 2004. It depicts them as part of the Trench Coat Mafia, a clique in the school who wore black trench coats, extorting money for protecting preps from bullies. They were apparently not a part of the Trench Coat Mafia, but were friends with some of its members. They did however wear black trench coats on the day of the massacre, and the video seemed a kind of dress rehearsal, showing them walking the halls of the school, and shooting bullies outside with fake guns.\n\nOn October 21, 2003, a video was released showing the pair doing target practice on March 6, 1999, in nearby foothills known as Rampart Range, with the weapons they would use in the massacre. Also shooting with them is Mark Manes and Phil Duran, older men who helped supply one of the guns, and Manes's girlfriend.\n\nHarris and Klebold also kept five video tapes shot with school video equipment that documented their weapons, as well as their plans and reasons for the massacre, including the ways they hid their arsenals and deceived their parents. Most of these were shot in the Harris family basement, and are known as the Basement Tapes. Approximately thirty minutes before the attack, they made a final video saying goodbye and apologizing to their friends and families.\n\nIn December 1999, before anybody else had seen them, Time magazine published an article on these tapes. The victim's family members threatened to sue Jeffco. As a result, select victim families and journalists were allowed to see them, and they were then kept from the public indefinitely for fear of inspiring future massacres. The tapes have since been destroyed. There are only transcripts of some of the dialogue, and a short clip recorded surreptitiously by a victim's father. The pair claimed they were going to make copies of the tapes to send to news stations, but apparently never got around to it.\n\nHarris once did a school project involving a micro cassette tape audio recording of a fellow named Nixon about his life in Singapore. In the early morning hours before the massacre, Harris taped over this recording, leaving a message for his family, and left it on the kitchen table. This too has never been made public. It is known as the Nixon tape. On it Harris said \"It is less than nine hours now.\" He went on to say \"People will die because of me\" and \"It will be a day that will be remembered forever.\"\n\nIn the months prior to the attacks, Harris and Klebold acquired two 9 mm firearms and two 12-gauge shotguns. Harris had a Hi-Point 995 Carbine with thirteen 10-round magazines and a Savage-Springfield 67H pump-action shotgun. Klebold used a 9×19mm Intratec TEC-9 semi-automatic handgun with one 52-, one 32-, and one 28-round magazine and a Stevens 311D double-barreled shotgun. Harris's shotgun was sawed-off to around and Klebold shortened his shotgun's length to approximately , a felony under the National Firearms Act.\n\nOn November 22, 1998, their friend Robyn Anderson had purchased the carbine rifle and the two shotguns for the pair at the Tanner Gun Show, as they were too young to legally purchase the guns themselves. Anderson made her purchase from a private seller, not a licensed dealer. After the attack, she told investigators that she had believed the pair wanted the items for target shooting, and that she had no prior knowledge of their plans. Anderson was not charged. Three days before the shooting, Klebold attended the high school prom with Anderson.\n\nBoth Harris and Klebold held part-time jobs at a local Blackjack Pizza. Through Philip Duran, a coworker, Klebold bought a TEC-9 handgun from Mark Manes for $500 at another gun show on January 23. After the massacre, Manes and Duran were both prosecuted. Each was charged with supplying a handgun to a minor and possession of a sawed-off shotgun. Manes and Duran were sentenced to a total of six years and four-and-a-half years in prison, respectively.\n\nIn addition to the shootings, the complex and highly planned attack involved several improvised explosive devices. Using instructions obtained via the Internet and the \"Anarchist Cookbook\", they constructed a total of 99 bombs.\n\nThese included pipe bombs, carbon dioxide cartridges filled with gunpowder (called \"crickets\"), Molotov cocktails, propane tanks converted to bombs, car bombs, and diversionary bombs. For ignition, they used kitchen matches and model rocket igniters as well as timing devices built from clocks and batteries for the propane, car, and diversion bombs. During the massacre, they carried lighters as well as match strikers taped to their forearms to light the pipe bombs and crickets.\n\nHarris also attempted to make napalm, and envisioned a kind of backpack and flamethrower. They both attempted to get another friend and coworker Chris Morris, who was a part of the Trench Coat Mafia, to keep the napalm at his house, but he refused. Harris also tried to recruit him to be a third shooter, but would play it off as a joke when rebuked.\n\nIn Spring 1998, Harris's father caught him with a pipe bomb, and went out with him to the mountains to detonate it. Klebold scared his coworkers by once bringing a pipe bomb into work. After the massacre, six pipe bombs had been left in Klebold's bedroom, and two in Harris's. They would give names to their pipe bombs. One left in Klebold's room was called \"Atlanta\", presumably after the Olympic Park bombing.\n\nThe weekend before the shootings, Harris and Klebold had purchased propane tanks and other supplies from a hardware store for a few hundred dollars. They purchased six propane tanks on the morning of the attack. Harris was caught on a Texaco gas station security camera at 9:12 a.m. purchasing a Blue Rhino propane tank. Each cafeteria bomb was made from one tank with a gallon gas can attached.\n\nEach car bomb was made from pipe bombs and two 20 pound propane tanks. Cans and bottles filled with gasoline were also set throughout the cars; they did not bother to rig everything together.\n\nThough they never used them, they also each carried two knives during the massacre. One of Harris's was in a sheath taped to his ankle. One of Klebold's was a show piece; it had a curved blade and several spikes on the handle.\n\nAccording to their journals and videos, the pair hoped that after detonating their home-made explosives in the cafeteria at the busiest lunch hour, killing hundreds of students, they would shoot and stab and toss bombs at survivors fleeing from the school. Then, as police vehicles, ambulances, fire trucks, and reporters came to the school, bombs set in the boys' cars would detonate, killing these emergency and other personnel. This did not happen, since the bombs in the cafeteria and cars failed to detonate.\n\nSeveral official sources claim they planned to shoot the fleeing survivors from the parking lot, but moved to the staircase on a hill at the west side of the school when the bombs failed. Other accounts suggest the top of the staircase where the massacre began was in fact their preferred spot to wait for the bombs to go off.\n\nOn Tuesday morning, April 20, 1999, Harris and Klebold placed two duffel bags each containing propane bombs in the cafeteria, set to explode at approximately 11:17 a.m, during the \"A\" lunch shift. Propane bombs were also placed in the cafeteria's kitchen.\n\nNo witness recalled seeing the duffel bags being added to the 400 or so backpacks already in the cafeteria. The security staff at Columbine did not observe the bags being placed in the cafeteria, ostensibly because a custodian was replacing the school security video tape as it happened around 11:14 a.m. The bags holding the bombs were supposedly first visible on the fresh security tape, but were not identified as suspicious items. Others have suggested the bombs can be seen being placed on the security video around 10:58 a.m. Shortly after the massacre, police also took seriously the suggestion that the bombs were placed during the \"after-prom\" party held the prior weekend.\n\nA Jeffco Sheriff's Deputy, Neil Gardner, was assigned to the high school as a full-time uniformed and armed school resource officer. Gardner usually ate lunch with students in the cafeteria, but on April 20 he was eating lunch in his patrol car at the northwest corner of the campus, watching students in the Smokers' Pit in Clement Park, a meadow adjacent to the school.\n\nTwo backpacks filled with pipe bombs, aerosol canisters, and small propane bombs were also placed in a field about south of CHS, and south of the fire station. Set to explode at approximately 11:14 a.m., the bombs were intended as a diversion to draw firefighters and emergency personnel away from the school. Only the pipe bombs and one of the aerosol canisters detonated, causing a small fire, which was quickly extinguished by the fire department. Bomb technicians immediately examined the bombs, and relayed to police at the school the possibility of devices with motion activators.\n\nAt 11:10 a.m., Harris and Klebold arrived separately at CHS. Harris parked his vehicle in the junior student parking lot, and Klebold parked in the adjoining senior student parking lot. The school cafeteria, their primary bomb target, with its long outside window-wall and ground-level doors, was just north of the senior parking lot. Above the cafeteria, the second-story of the window-wall, was the library. Each car contained car bombs timed to detonate at 12 p.m.\n\nAs Harris pulled into the parking lot, he encountered Brooks Brown, with whom he had recently patched up their longstanding series of disputes. According to Brown, who was in the parking lot smoking a cigarette, he was surprised to see Harris, whom he had earlier noted had been absent from an important class test. Harris seemed unconcerned, commenting, \"It doesn't matter anymore.\" Harris went on: \"Brooks, I like you now. Get out of here. Go home.\" Brown, feeling uneasy, and already prepared to skip his next class, walked away. Several minutes later, students departing Columbine for their lunch break observed Brown heading down South Pierce Street away from the school.\n\nMeanwhile, Harris and Klebold armed themselves, hiding weapons beneath black trench coats with straps and webbing, and carrying backpacks and duffel bags filled with pipe bombs and ammunition. Harris also had his shotgun in one of the bags. Beneath the trench coats, Harris wore a white T-shirt which read \"Natural Selection\" in black letters, as well as a homemade bandolier; Klebold wore a black T-shirt which read \"Wrath\" in red letters.\n\nThey climbed to the top of the outdoor steps which led up a hill placing them on a level with the school's west entrance, first Harris and then Klebold. Harris put a black fingerless glove on his right hand, and Klebold was already wearing the matching fingerless glove on his left. From this vantage point, one of the cafeteria's ground-level doors was located at the bottom of the staircase.\n\nThe cafeteria bombs failed to explode. Had these bombs exploded with full power, they could have killed or severely wounded all of the approximately 488 students in the cafeteria, and possibly made the ceiling collapse by destroying the pillars holding it up, dropping the library into the cafeteria.\n\nAt 11:19 a.m., 17-year-old Rachel Scott was having lunch with friend Richard Castaldo while sitting on the grass next to the west entrance of the school. Klebold threw a pipe bomb towards the parking lot, which only partially detonated. Thinking the pipe bomb was no more than a crude senior prank, Castaldo did not take it seriously. Several students inside the school during the attack also believed they were watching a senior prank at first.\n\nHarris and Klebold faced each other and nodded. Harris then yelled, \"Go! Go!\" They pulled their guns from beneath their trench coats and began shooting at Castaldo and Scott. Scott was killed when she was hit four times with rounds fired from Harris's carbine; one shot was to the left temple. Castaldo was shot eight times in the chest, arm, and abdomen and paralyzed below the chest, falling into unconsciousness.\n\nHarris aimed his carbine down the west staircase toward three youths: 15-year-olds Daniel Rohrbough and Sean Graves and 16-year-old Lance Kirklin. The three friends had been ascending the staircase directly below the shooters. All three were shot and wounded. In the cafeteria, Dave Sanders, a teacher and coach at the school, became aware of the gunfire and began warning students.\n\nThe shooters turned and began firing west in the direction of five students sitting on the grassy hillside adjacent to the steps and opposite the west entrance of the school. 15-year-old Michael Johnson was hit in the face, leg, and arm, but ran and escaped; 16-year-old Mark Taylor was shot in the chest, arms, and leg and fell to the ground, where he feigned death. The other three escaped uninjured.\n\nKlebold walked down the steps toward the cafeteria. He came up to Lance Kirklin, who was already wounded and lying on the ground, weakly calling for help. Klebold said, \"Sure. I'll help you,\" then shot Kirklin in the face with his shotgun, critically wounding him. Daniel Rohrbough and Sean Graves had descended the staircase when the shooters' attention was diverted by the students on the grass; Graves—paralyzed beneath the waist—had crawled into the doorway of the cafeteria's west entrance and collapsed. He rubbed blood on his face and played dead. Klebold shot Rohrbough with his shotgun, who was already fatally wounded by the shots previously fired by Harris, at close range through the upper left chest, and then stepped over the injured Graves to enter the cafeteria. Graves remembers Klebold saying, \"Sorry, dude\".\n\nKlebold only slightly entered the cafeteria, and did not shoot at the several people still inside. Officials speculated that Klebold went to check on the propane bombs. Harris was still on top of the stairs shooting, and severely wounded and partially paralyzed 17-year-old Anne-Marie Hochhalter as she tried to flee. Klebold came out of the cafeteria and went back up the stairs to join Harris. They shot at students standing close to a soccer field but did not hit anyone. They walked toward the west entrance, throwing pipe bombs in several directions including onto the roof, very few of which detonated. Witnesses heard one of them say \"This is what we always wanted to do. This is awesome!\"\n\nMeanwhile, inside the school, Patti Nielson, an art teacher, had noticed the commotion and walked toward the west entrance with a 17-year-old student, Brian Anderson. She had intended to walk outside to tell the two students to \"Knock it off,\" thinking they were either filming a video or pulling a student prank. As Anderson opened the first set of double doors, they shot out the windows, injuring him with flying glass and hitting Nielson in the shoulder with shrapnel. Anderson and Nielson ran back down the hall into the library, and Nielson alerted the students inside to the danger, telling them to get under desks and keep silent. She dialed 9-1-1 and hid under the library's administrative counter. Anderson fell to the floor bleeding from his injuries, and hid inside an open staff break room. \n\nHarris removed his trench coat. At 11:22 a.m., the custodian called Deputy Neil Gardner, the assigned resource officer to Columbine, on the school radio, requesting assistance in the senior parking lot. The only paved route took him around the school to the east and south on Pierce Street, where at 11:23 a.m. he heard on his police radio that a female was down, and assumed she had been struck by a car. While exiting his patrol car in the Senior lot at 11:24 a.m., he heard another call on the school radio, \"Neil, there's a shooter in the school\".\n\nHarris, at the west entrance, immediately turned and fired ten shots from his carbine at Gardner, who was sixty yards away. As Harris reloaded his carbine, Gardner leaned over the top of his car and fired four rounds at Harris from his service pistol. Harris ducked back behind the building, and Gardner momentarily believed that he had hit him. Harris then reemerged and fired at least four more rounds at Gardner (which missed and struck two parked cars), before retreating into the building. No one was hit during the exchange of gunfire. Gardner reported on his police radio, \"Shots in the building. I need someone in the south lot with me.\"\nBy this point, Harris had shot 47 times, and Klebold just 5. The shooters then entered the school through the west entrance, moving along the main North Hallway, throwing pipe bombs and shooting at anyone they encountered. Klebold shot Stephanie Munson in the ankle; she was able to walk out of the school. The pair then shot out the windows to the East Entrance of the school. After proceeding through the hall several times and shooting toward—and missing—any students they saw, they went toward the west entrance and turned into the Library Hallway.\n\nDeputy Paul Smoker, a motorcycle patrolman for the Jeffco Sheriff's Office, was writing a traffic ticket north of the school when the \"female down\" call came in at 11:23 a.m., most likely referring to the already dead Rachel Scott. Taking the shortest route, he drove his motorcycle over grass between the athletic fields and headed toward the west entrance. When he saw Deputy Scott Taborsky following him in a patrol car, he abandoned his motorcycle for the safety of the car. The two deputies had begun to rescue two wounded students near the ball fields when another gunfight broke out at 11:26 a.m., as Harris returned to the double doors and again began shooting at Deputy Gardner, who returned fire. From the hilltop, Deputy Smoker fired three rounds from his pistol at Harris, who again retreated into the building. As before, no one was hit.\n\nInside the school cafeteria, teacher Dave Sanders and two custodians, Jon Curtis and Jay Gallatine, initially told students to get under the tables, then successfully evacuated students up the staircase leading to the second floor of the school. The stairs were located around the corner from the Library Hallway in the main South Hallway. Sanders then tried to secure as much of the school as he could.\n\nBy now, Harris and Klebold were inside the main hallway. Sanders and another student were down at the end of the hallway, where he gestured for students in the library to stay. They encountered Harris and Klebold, who were approaching from the corner of the North Hallway. Sanders and the student turned and ran in the opposite direction. Harris and Klebold shot at them both, with Harris hitting Sanders twice in the back and neck but missing the student. The latter ran into a science classroom and warned everyone to hide. Klebold walked over towards Sanders, who had collapsed, to look for the student but returned to Harris up the North Hallway.\n\nSanders struggled toward the science area, and a teacher took him into a classroom where 30 students were located. Due to his knowledge of first aid, student Aaron Hancey was brought to the classroom from another by teachers despite the unfolding commotion. With the assistance of a fellow student named Kevin Starkey, and teacher Teresa Miller, Hancey administered first aid to Sanders for three hours, attempting to stem the blood loss using shirts from students in the room, and showing him pictures from his wallet to keep him talking. Using a phone in the room, Miller and several students maintained contact with police outside the school.\n\nAs the shooting unfolded, Patti Nielson talked on the phone with emergency services, telling her story and urging students to take cover beneath desks. According to transcripts, her call was received by a 9-1-1 operator at 11:25:05 a.m. Before entering, the shooters threw two bombs into the cafeteria, both of which exploded. They then threw another bomb into the library hallway; it exploded and damaged several lockers. At 11:29 a.m., they entered the library, where a total of 52 students, two teachers and two librarians had concealed themselves. Harris yelled, \"Get up!\" so loudly that he can be heard on Patti Nielson's 9-1-1 recording at 11:29:18 a.m. Klebold then shouted \"Everybody get up, now!\"\n\nHarris fired his shotgun twice at a desk. A student named Evan Todd had been standing near a pillar when the shooters entered the library, and had just begun hiding behind a copier. Todd was hit by wood splinters in the eye and lower back but was not seriously injured. Todd then hid behind the administrative counter.\n\nThe shooters walked into the library, toward rows of computers. A disabled student, Kyle Velasquez, 16, was sitting at the north row; police later said he had not hidden underneath the desk when the shooters had first entered the library, but had curled up under the computer table. Klebold shot and killed Velasquez with his shotgun, hitting him in the head and back.\n\n\"This is our revenge!\", Harris and Klebold shouted. \"For the four fucked-up years you put us through. For four years of bullying and giving us shit. Hey, jocks, this is our revenge for making us outcasts. We're gonna blow this library up!\"\n\nThe shooters put down their ammunition-filled duffel bags at the south—or lower—row of computers and reloaded their weapons. They walked toward the windows facing the outside staircase. Noticing police evacuating students outside the school, Harris said: \"Let's go kill some cops.\" They shot out the windows in the direction of the police. Officers returned fire, and the gunmen retreated from the windows; no one was injured.\n\nAfter firing out the windows, Klebold removed his trench coat. Staff and students hiding said they heard Klebold say things like: \"Everyone with a white cap, stand up!\" \"All jocks stand up! We'll get the guys in white hats!\" and \"Anybody with a white hat on is dead\". Wearing a white baseball cap at Columbine was a tradition among sports team members. Several students tried to hide their white hats. \n\nWhen no one stood up in response, Klebold said, \"Fine, I'll start shooting anyway!\" Klebold fired his shotgun at a nearby table, injuring three students: Patrick Ireland, Daniel Steepleton, and Makai Hall. Harris walked toward the lower row of computer desks with his shotgun, firing a single shot under the first desk from a short distance away, while down on one knee. He hit 14-year-old Steven Curnow with a mortal wound to the neck. \n\nHarris then walked closer, got on one knee, and shot under the adjacent computer desk, injuring 17-year-old Kacey Ruegsegger with a shot which passed completely through her right shoulder and hand, also grazing her neck and severing a major artery. When she started gasping in pain, Harris tersely stated, \"Quit your bitching.\"\n\nHarris walked over to the table across from the lower computer row, slapped the surface twice and knelt, saying \"Peek-a-boo\" to 17-year-old Cassie Bernall before shooting her once in the head, killing her instantly. Harris had been holding the shotgun with one hand at this point and the weapon hit his face in recoil, breaking his nose. Prior to her murder, Bernall had been praying, with her hands on the sides of her head.\n\nAfter fatally shooting Bernall, Harris turned toward the next table, where Bree Pasquale sat next to the table rather than under it. Harris's nose was bleeding heavily; witnesses later reported that he seemed disoriented and had blood around his mouth. Harris asked Pasquale if she wanted to die, and she responded with a plea for her life. Harris laughed and responded \"Everyone's gonna die.\" When Klebold said \"shoot her\", Harris responded \"No, we're gonna blow up the school anyway.\" Klebold noticed Ireland trying to provide aid to Hall, who had suffered a wound to his knee. As Ireland tried to help Hall, his head rose above the table; Klebold shot him a second time, hitting him twice in the head and once in the foot. Ireland was knocked unconscious, but survived.\n\nKlebold walked toward another set of tables, where he discovered 18-year-old Isaiah Shoels, 16-year-old Matthew Kechter and 16-year-old Craig Scott (Rachel's younger brother), hiding under one table. Klebold tried to pull Shoels out from under the table. He called to Harris, \"Reb! There's a nigger over here!\" Harris left Pasquale and joined him. According to witnesses, they taunted Shoels for a few seconds, making derogatory racial comments. Harris knelt down and shot Shoels once in the chest at close range, killing him instantly. Klebold also knelt down and opened fire, hitting and killing Kechter. Harris then yelled; \"Who's ready to die next?\" Meanwhile, Scott was uninjured; he lay in the blood of his friends, feigning death. Harris turned and threw a cricket at the table where Hall, Steepleton, and Ireland were located. It landed on Steepleton's thigh, Hall quickly threw it away, and it exploded behind them in mid-air.\n\nHarris walked toward the bookcases between the west and center section of tables in the library. He jumped on one and shook it, apparently attempting to topple it, then shot at the books which had fallen. Klebold walked through the main area, past the first set of bookcases, the central desk area and a second set of bookcases into the east area. Harris walked from the bookcase he had shot from, past the central area to meet Klebold. The latter shot at a display case located next to the door, then turned and shot toward the closest table, hitting and injuring 17-year-old Mark Kintgen in the head and shoulder. He then turned toward the table to his left and fired, injuring 18-year-olds Lisa Kreutz and Valeen Schnurr with the same shotgun blast. Klebold then moved toward the same table and fired with the TEC-9, killing 18-year-old Lauren Townsend. At this point, the seriously injured Valeen Schnurr began screaming, \"Oh my God, oh my God!\" In response, Klebold asked Schnurr if she believed in the existence of God; when Schnurr replied she did, Klebold asked \"Why?\" and commented \"God is gay\" before walking from the table.\n\nHarris approached another table where two girls were hiding. He bent down to look at them and dismissed them as \"pathetic\". Harris then moved to another table where he fired twice, injuring 16-year-olds Nicole Nowlen and John Tomlin. Tomlin moved out from under the table. Harris then taunted Tomlin's attempt at escape before Klebold shot him repeatedly, killing him. Harris then walked back over to the other side of the table where Townsend lay dead. Behind the table, a 16-year-old girl named Kelly Fleming had, like Bree Pasquale, sat next to the table rather than beneath it due to a lack of space. Harris shot Fleming with his shotgun, hitting her in the back and killing her instantly. He shot at the table behind Fleming, hitting Townsend and Kreutz again, and wounding 18-year-old Jeanna Park. An autopsy later revealed that Townsend died from the earlier gunshots inflicted by Klebold.\n\nThe shooters moved to the center of the library, where they reloaded their weapons at a table. Harris then pointed his carbine under a table, but the student he was aiming at moved out of the way. Harris turned his gun back on the student and told him to identify himself. It was John Savage, an acquaintance of Klebold's. He asked Klebold what they were doing, to which he shrugged and answered, \"killing people.\" Savage asked if they were going to kill him. Possibly because of a fire alarm, Klebold said, \"What?\" Savage asked again whether they were going to kill him. Klebold said no, and told him to run. Savage fled, escaping through the library's main entrance.\n\nAfter Savage left, one of the gunmen stated \"This is what we've been waiting for all our lives.\" Harris turned and fired his carbine at the table directly north of where they had been, hitting the ear and hand of 15-year-old Daniel Mauser. Mauser reacted by shoving a chair at Harris; Harris fired again and hit Mauser in the center of the face at close range, killing him by breaking his neck. Both shooters moved south and fired randomly under another table, critically injuring two 17-year-olds, Jennifer Doyle and Austin Eubanks, and fatally wounding 17-year-old Corey DePooter. DePooter was later credited with having kept his friends calm during the ordeal. He was the last to die in the massacre, at 11:35 a.m.\n\nThere were no further victims. They had killed 10 people in the library and wounded 12. Of the 56 library hostages, 34 remained unharmed. Investigators would later find that the shooters had enough ammunition to have killed them all. Throughout the library massacre, the gunmen seemed to be enjoying themselves, shouting things like \"yahoo\" after shooting.\n\nAt this point, several witnesses later said they heard the shooters comment that they no longer found a thrill in shooting their victims. Klebold was quoted as saying, \"Maybe we should start knifing people, that might be more fun.\" They moved away from the table and went toward the library's main counter. Harris threw a Molotov cocktail toward the southwestern end of the library, but it failed to explode. Harris then went around the east side of the counter and Klebold joined him from the west; they converged close to where Todd had moved after having been wounded.\n\nKlebold pulled out a chair, pointed his TEC-9 at Todd, and commented \"Look what we have here.\" Harris seemed disoriented from his broken nose, and asked \"What?\" Klebold responded \"Just some fat fuck\". Todd was wearing a white hat. Klebold asked if he was a jock, and when Todd said no Klebold responded \"Well, that's good. We don't like jocks.\" Klebold then demanded to see his face, Todd partly lifted his hat so his face would remain obscured. When Klebold asked Todd to give him one reason why he should not kill him, Todd said: \"I don't want trouble.\" Klebold responded back angrily \"Trouble? You don't even know what fucking trouble is!\" He also remarked \"You used to call me a fag. Who's a fag now?!\" Todd tried to correct himself: \"That's not what I meant! I mean, I don't have a problem with you guys. I never will and I never did.\" Klebold then spoke to Harris, \"I'm gonna let this fat fuck live, you can have at him if you want to.\"\nHarris did not pay much attention and said \"Let's go to the commons.\" Klebold turned and fired a single shot into an open library staff break room, hitting a small television. Before they left, Klebold slammed a chair down on top of the computer terminal and several books on the library counter, directly above the bureau where Patti Nielson had hidden.\n\nThe two walked out of the library at 11:36 a.m., ending the hostage situation there. Cautiously, fearing the shooters' return, 34 uninjured and 10 injured survivors began to evacuate the library through the north door, which led to the sidewalk adjacent to the west entrance. Kacey Ruegsegger was evacuated from the library by Craig Scott. Had she not been evacuated at this point, Ruegsegger would likely have bled to death from her injuries. Patrick Ireland, unconscious, and Lisa Kreutz, unable to move, remained in the building. Patti Nielson joined Brian Anderson and the three library staff in the exterior break room, into which Klebold had earlier fired shots, and locked themselves in.\n\nAfter leaving the library, the gunmen entered the science area, where they threw a small Molotov cocktail into an empty storage closet. It caused a fire, which was extinguished by a teacher hidden in an adjacent room. The gunmen proceeded toward the south hallway, where they shot into an empty science room. At approximately 11:44 a.m., they were captured on the school security cameras as they re-entered the cafeteria. The recording shows Harris kneeling on the landing and firing a single shot toward one of the propane bombs left in the cafeteria, in an unsuccessful attempt to detonate it. As Klebold approached the propane bomb and examined it, Harris took a drink from one of the cups left behind. Klebold lit a Molotov cocktail and threw it at the propane bomb. They left the cafeteria at 11:46 a.m, as the Molotov cocktail exploded. The gallon of fuel attached to the bomb ignited, causing a fire that was extinguished by the fire sprinklers.\n\nAfter leaving the cafeteria, they returned to the main north and south hallways of the school, shooting aimlessly. They walked through the south hallway into the main office before returning to the north hallway. On several occasions, they looked through the windows of classroom doors, making eye contact with students hidden inside, but they never tried to enter any of the rooms. They taunted students hidden inside a bathroom, making such comments as: \"We know you're in there\" and \"Let's kill anyone we find in here,\" but never attempted to enter the bathroom. At 11:55 a.m., they returned to the cafeteria, and briefly entered the school kitchen. They returned up the staircase and into the south hallway at 11:58 a.m.\n\nThey reentered the library, perhaps to watch their car bombs detonate, which had been set to explode at noon, but which failed. The library was empty of surviving students except for the unconscious Patrick Ireland and the injured Lisa Kreutz. Once inside, at 12:02 p.m., they shot through the west windows at police, who returned fire. Nobody was injured in the exchange.\n\nBy approximately 12:08 p.m., both gunmen had committed suicide. In a subsequent interview, Kreutz recalled hearing a comment such as, \"You in the library,\" around this time. Harris sat down with his back to a bookshelf and fired his shotgun through the roof of his mouth; Klebold went down on his knees and shot himself in the left temple with his TEC-9. An article by \"The Rocky Mountain News\" stated that Patti Nielson overheard them shout \"One! Two! Three!\" in unison, just before a loud boom. However, Nielson said at no time had she ever spoken with either of the writers of the article, and evidence suggests otherwise. Just before committing suicide, Klebold lit a Molotov cocktail on a nearby table, underneath which lay Patrick Ireland, which caused the tabletop to momentarily catch fire. Underneath the scorched film of material was a piece of Harris's brain matter, suggesting Harris had shot himself by this point.\n\nIn 2002, the \"National Enquirer\" published two photos of Harris and Klebold after their suicides, showing both dead laying on their backs, and the guns in seemingly curious locations, such as Klebold's right hand laying on his gun despite his being left-handed, and leading to speculation that Harris shot Klebold before killing himself. However, the photographs were taken after SWAT had checked the bodies for bombs and booby-traps, and likely kicked Klebold onto his back. The placement of his blood and baseball cap suggest he died face down on Harris's legs.\nA total of 188 rounds of ammunition were fired by the perpetrators during the massacre. Harris fired nearly twice as much as Klebold; he fired his carbine rifle a total of 96 times, and discharged his shotgun 25 times. Klebold fired the TEC-9 handgun 55 times, while he discharged a total of 12 rounds from his double-barreled shotgun. Additionally, law enforcement officers fired a total of 141 rounds during exchanges of gunfire with the shooters.\n\nBy noon, SWAT teams were stationed outside the school, and ambulances started taking the wounded to local hospitals. A call for additional ammunition for police officers in case of a shootout came at 12:20 p.m. Authorities reported pipe bombs by 1 p.m., and two SWAT teams entered the school at 1:09 p.m., moving from classroom to classroom, discovering hidden students and faculty. They entered at the end of the school opposite the library, hampered by old maps and unaware a new wing had recently been added. They were also hampered by the sound of the fire alarms.\n\nMeanwhile, families of students and staff were asked to gather at nearby Leawood Elementary School to await information. All students, teachers, and school employees were taken away, questioned, and offered medical care in small holding areas before being bussed to meet with their family members at Leawood Elementary. Some of the victims families were told to wait on one final school bus that never came.\n\nPatrick Ireland had regained and lost consciousness several times after being shot by Klebold. Paralyzed on his right side, he crawled to the library windows where, on live television, at 2:38 p.m., he stretched out the window, intending to fall into the arms of two SWAT team members standing on the roof of an emergency vehicle, but instead falling directly onto the vehicle's roof in a pool of blood. He became known as \"the boy in the window\". They were later criticized for allowing Ireland to drop more than seven feet to the ground while doing nothing to try to ensure he could be lowered to the ground safely or break his fall. Lisa Kreutz, shot in the shoulder, arms, hand, and thigh, remained laying in the library. She had tried to move but became light-headed. Kreutz kept track of time by the sound of the school's bells until police arrived.\n\nAt 2:15 p.m. students placed a sign in the window: \"1 bleeding to death,\" in order to alert police and medical personnel of Dave Sanders' location in the science room. Police initially feared it was a ruse by the shooters. A shirt was also tied to the doorknob. At 2:30 p.m. this was spotted, and by 2:40 p.m. SWAT officers evacuated the room of students, and called for a paramedic. Hancey and Starkey were reluctant to leave Sanders behind. By 3:00 p.m., the SWAT officers decided a paramedic was not coming or could not get in, and opted to move Sanders themselves, and placed him in a chair. As they did so, a paramedic arrived, and found Sanders had no pulse. He had died in the science room of his injuries before he could receive medical care. He was the only teacher to die in the shooting.\n\nKreutz was finally evacuated at 3:22 p.m., along with Patti Nielson, Brian Anderson and the three library staff who had hidden in the break room. Officials found the bodies in the library by 3:30 p.m. By 4:00 p.m., Sheriff Stone made an initial estimate of 25 dead students and teachers, fifty wounded, and referred to the massacre as a \"suicide mission.\" US President Bill Clinton issued a statement.\n\nStone said that police officers were searching the bodies of the gunmen. They feared they had used their pipe bombs to booby-trap corpses, including their own. At 4:30 p.m. the school was declared safe. At 5:30 p.m., additional officers were called in, as more explosives were found in the parking lot and on the roof. By 6:15 p.m., officials had found a bomb in Klebold's car in the parking lot, set to detonate the gas tank. Stone then marked the entire school as a crime scene.\n\nAt 10:40 p.m., a member of the bomb squad, who was attempting to dispose of an un-detonated pipe bomb, accidentally lit a striking match attached to the bomb by brushing it against the wall of the ordnance disposal trailer. The bomb detonated inside the trailer but no one was injured.\n\nThe bomb squad disrupted the car bomb. Klebold's car was repaired and, in 2006, put up for auction.\n\nOn the morning of April 21, bomb squads combed the high school. By 8:30 a.m. the official death toll of 15 was released. The estimate was ten over the true count, but close to the total count of wounded students. The total count of deaths was 12 students (14 including the shooters) and one teacher; 20 students and one teacher were injured as a result of the shootings. Three more victims were injured indirectly as they tried to escape the school. It was then the worst school shooting in US history.\n\nAt 10 a.m., the bomb squad declared the building safe for officials to enter. By 11:30 a.m., a spokesman of the sheriff declared the investigation underway. Thirteen of the bodies were still inside the high school as investigators photographed the building.\n\nAt 2:30 p.m., a press conference was held by Jeffco District Attorney David Thomas and Sheriff John Stone, at which they said that they suspected others had helped plan the shooting. Formal identification of the dead had not yet taken place, but families of the children thought to have been killed had been notified.\n\nThroughout the late afternoon and early evening, the bodies were gradually removed from the school and taken to the Jeffco Coroner's Office to be identified and autopsied. By 5:00 p.m., the names of many of the dead were known. An official statement was released, naming the 15 confirmed deaths and 27 injuries related to the massacre. On April 22, the bombs left in the kitchen were found.\n\nIn the days following the shootings, Rachel Scott's car and John Tomlin's truck became memorials, and impromptu memorials were held in Clement Park. On April 30, carpenter Greg Zanis erected 15 six feet tall wooden crosses to honor those who had died at the school. Daniel Rohrbough's father cut down the two meant for the gunmen. There were also fifteen trees planted, and he cut down two of those as well.\n\nAlso on April 30, high-ranking officials of Jeffco and the Jeffco Sheriff's Office met to decide if they should reveal that Michael Guerra had drafted an affidavit for a search warrant of Harris's residence more than a year before the shootings, based on his previous investigation of Harris's website and activities. Since the affidavit's contents lacked the necessary probable cause, they decided not to disclose this information at a press conference held on April 30, nor did they mention it in any other way.\n\nOver the next two years, Guerra's original draft and investigative file documents were lost. In September 1999, a Jeffco investigator failed to find the documents during a secret search of the county's computer system. A second attempt in late 2000 found copies of the document within the Jeffco archives. Their loss was termed \"troubling\" by a grand jury convened after the file's existence was reported in April 2001. It was concealed by the Jeffco Sheriff's Office and not revealed until September 2001, resulting from an investigation by the TV show \"60 Minutes\". The documents were reconstructed and released to the public, but the original documents are still missing. The final grand jury investigation was released in September 2004.\n\nIn the wake of the shooting, victims Rachel Scott and Cassie Bernall came to be regarded as Christian martyrs by Evangelical Christians. Considerable media attention focused upon Bernall, who had been killed by Harris in the library and who Harris was reported to have asked, \"Do you believe in God?\" immediately prior to her murder. Bernall was reported to have responded \"Yes\" to this question before her murder. Emily Wyant, the closest living witness to Bernall's death, denied that Bernall and Harris had such an exchange. The closest living witness to Scott's death, Richard Castaldo, once claimed Harris asked Scott if she believed in God, and murdered her after she answered \"You know I do\", but this also appears to be untrue.\n\nSurvivor Valeen Schnurr claims that she was the one questioned as to her belief in God. Joshua Lapp thought Bernall had been queried about her belief, but was unable to correctly point out where Bernall was located, and was closer to Schnurr during the shootings. Another witness, Craig Scott claimed the discussion was with Bernall. When asked to indicate where the conversation had been coming from, he pointed to where Schnurr was shot.\n\nIn August 1999, students returned to the school, and principal Frank Deangelis led a rally of students clad in \"We are Columbine\" shirts.\n\nSeveral former students and teachers suffer from PTSD. Six months after the shootings, Anne Marie Hochhalter's mother committed suicide. Greg Barnes, a student who witnessed Sanders get shot, committed suicide in May 2000.\n\nThough the attack was planned as a terrorist attack which would cause \"the most deaths in US history\", the motive has never been ascertained with confidence. Soon after the massacre, it was thought Harris and Klebold targeted jocks, blacks, and Christians. Both sought to provide answers in the journals and video tapes, but investigators found them lacking. In a letter provided with the May 15 report on the Columbine attack, Sheriff John Stone and Undersheriff John A. Dunaway wrote they \"cannot answer the most fundamental question—why?\"\n\nThe conclusion of the FBI was mental illness, that Harris was a clinical psychopath, and Klebold was depressive. Dr. Dwayne Fuselier, the supervisor in charge of the Columbine investigation, would later remark: \"I believe Eric went to the school to kill and didn't care if he died, while Dylan wanted to die and didn't care if others died as well.\"\n\nIn April 1998, as part of his diversion program, Harris wrote a letter of apology to the owner of the van. Around the same time, he derided him in his journal, stating that he believed himself to have the right to steal something if he wanted to. By far the most prevalent theme in Klebold's journals is his private despair at his lack of success with women, which he refers to as an \"infinite sadness.\" Klebold had repeatedly documented his desires to commit suicide, and his final remark in the Basement Tapes, shortly before the attack, is a resigned statement made as he glances away from the camera: \"Just know I'm going to a better place. I didn't like life too much.\"\n\nAccording to this theory, used by Dave Cullen for his 2009 book \"Columbine,\" Harris had been the mastermind, having a messianic-level superiority complex, and hoping to demonstrate his superiority to the world; Klebold was a follower who primarily participated in the massacre as a means to simply end his life.\n\nHowever, this theory has met with criticism. For instance, it was Klebold and not Harris who first mentioned going on a killing spree in his journal, and there is evidence to suggest both were depressed, such as Harris being prescribed antidepressants. Sheriff Stone said \"I've talked to students who were shot by Klebold. He was not just a follower.\"\n\nThere have been other attempts to diagnose Harris and Klebold with mental illness. Peter Langman believes Harris was a psychopath and Klebold was schizotypal. Professor Aubrey Immelman published a personality profile of Harris, based on journal entries and personal communication, and believes the materials suggested behavior patterns consistent with a \"malignant narcissism ... pathological narcissistic personality disorder with borderline and antisocial features, along with some paranoid traits, and unconstrained aggression\". The report notes that such a profile should not be construed as a direct psychiatric diagnosis, which is based on face-to-face interviews, formal psychological testing, and collection of collateral information.\n\nThe link between bullying and school violence has attracted increasing attention since the massacre. Both of the shooters were classified as gifted children who had allegedly been victims of bullying for four years. Early stories following the shootings charged that school administrators and teachers at Columbine had long condoned a climate of bullying by the so-called jocks or athletes, allowing an atmosphere of intimidation and resentment to fester. Critics said this could have contributed to triggering the perpetrators' extreme violence. Reportedly, homophobic remarks were directed at Klebold and Harris. Klebold said on the Basement Tapes, \"You've been giving us shit for years.\"\n\nAccounts from various parents and school staffers describe bullying at the school as \"rampant.\" Nathan Vanderau, a friend of Klebold, and Alisa Owen, Harris's eighth-grade science partner, reported that Harris and Klebold were constantly picked on. Vanderau noted that a \"cup of fecal matter\" was thrown at them.\n\nKlebold is known to have remarked to his father of his hatred of the jocks at Columbine, adding that Harris in particular had been victimized. Klebold had stated, \"They sure give Eric hell.\" Chad Laughlin stated \"A lot of the tension in the school came from the class above us...There were people fearful of walking by a table where you knew you didn't belong, stuff like that. Certain groups certainly got preferential treatment across the board.\" Brown also noted Harris was born with mild chest indent. This made him reluctant to take his shirt off in gym class, and other students would laugh at him.\n\nA year after the massacre, an analysis by officials at the U.S. Secret Service of 37 premeditated school shootings found that bullying, which some of the shooters described \"in terms that approached torment\", played the major role in more than two-thirds of the attacks. A similar theory was expounded by Brooks Brown in his book on the massacre, \"No Easy Answers\"; he noted that teachers commonly looked the other way when confronted with bullying, and that whenever Klebold and Harris were the recipients of such incidents from the jocks at Columbine, they would make statements such as: \"Don't worry, man. It happens all the time!\" if anyone expressed shock or surprise.\n\nDave Cullen disputes the theory of \"revenge for bullying\" as a motivation. While acknowledging the pervasiveness of bullying in high schools including CHS, he has claimed they were not victims of bullying. He said Harris was more often the perpetrator than victim of bullying.\n\nDuring junior year, both Harris and Klebold had been confronted by a group of youths at the school—all members of the football team—who had sprayed them with ketchup and mustard while referring to the pair as \"faggots\" and \"queers\". According to Brown, \"People surrounded them in the commons and squirted ketchup packets all over them, laughing at them, calling them faggots\" \"That happened while teachers watched. They couldn't fight back. They wore the ketchup all day and went home covered with it.\" Laughlin stated \"I caught the tail end of one really horrible incident, and I know Dylan told his mother that it was the worst day of his life.\" That incident, according to Laughlin, involved seniors pelting Klebold with \"ketchup-covered tampons\" in the commons.\n\nDuring and after the initial investigations, social cliques within high schools such as Trench Coat Mafia were widely discussed. One perception formed was that both Klebold and Harris were outcasts who had been isolated from their classmates, prompting feelings of helplessness, insecurity, and depression, as well as a strong need for attention. This concept has been questioned, as both Harris and Klebold had a close circle of friends and a wider informal social group.\n\nOne of Harris's last journal entries read: \"I hate you people for leaving me out of so many fun things.\" \"The lonely man strikes with absolute rage\" wrote Klebold. In an interview, Brown described them as the school's worst outcasts, \"the losers of the losers\".\n\nSociologist Ralph Larkin has theorized the massacre was to trigger a revolution of outcast students and the dispossessed; \"as an overtly political act in the name of oppressed students victimized by their peers...The Columbine shootings redefined such acts not merely as revenge but as a means of protest of bullying, intimidation, social isolation, and public rituals of humiliation.\" One author argues Columbine was only increasingly linked to terrorism after the September 11 attacks.\n\nOn the Basement Tapes, Harris claimed they would \"kick-start a revolution\". Klebold wore a Soviet Union pin on his boots during the massacre.\n\nThe attack occurred on April 20, Adolf Hitler's birthday, which led to speculation in the media that the attack was political. Some people, such as Robyn Anderson, stated that the pair were not obsessed with Nazism nor did they worship or admire Hitler in any way. Anderson stated, in retrospect, that there were many things the pair did not tell friends. Harris at least did revere the Nazis. He praised them often in his journal, and some of his friends grew irritated at his frequent Nazi salutes and quotations in the months leading up to the shooting. At a certain point, Harris realized he needed to reduce this behavior, for fear of revealing his plans.\n\nThe original date for the massacre may have been April 19, like the Oklahoma City Bombing. On April 11, Harris said \"there are 7 and 1/3 days left.\" However, Harris wished for more ammunition from Mark Manes, for which one had to be 21 years old to obtain from K-Mart, and Manes did not get it for him until the evening of the 19th, causing the massacre to happen on the 20th. Manes asked if Harris was going shooting that night. Harris replied he would tomorrow. In 2001, K-Mart announced it would no longer sell handgun ammunition.\n\nIn one scheduled meeting with his appointed psychiatrist, Harris had complained of depression, anger, and suicidal thoughts. He was prescribed Zoloft. He complained of feeling restless and having trouble concentrating; his doctor switched him to Luvox, a similar selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI).\n\nToxicology reports confirmed that Harris had Luvox in his bloodstream at the time of the shootings. Klebold had no medications in his system. Opponents of contemporary psychiatry like Peter Breggin claimed that the psychiatric medications prescribed to Harris may have exacerbated his aggressiveness.\n\nHarris wished to join the United States Marine Corps. His application to the Marines was rejected shortly before the shootings because of his taking Luvox. According to the recruiting officer, Harris did not know about this rejection. However, for example Brooks Brown said he did.\n\nBlame for the shootings was directed at a number of metal or 'dark music' bands. Both Harris and Klebold were fans of the German rock bands KMFDM and Rammstein. Harris was enrolled in German class. His website contained lyrics from both artists, such as KMFDM's \"Son of a Gun\", \"Stray Bullet\", and \"Waste\", as well as translations for the songs done in German.\n\nIn the same blog post which threatened Brown, Harris wrote: \"Ill just go to some downtown area in some big ass city and blow up and shoot everything I can. Feel no remorse, no sense of shame.\" The last sentence is a quote from the KMFDM song \"Anarchy\". As above, Klebold wrote in Harris's yearbook \"My wrath for January's incident will be godlike,\" and he wore a shirt saying \"Wrath\" during the massacre. \"Wrath\" and \"Godlike\" are songs by KMFDM.\n\nOn April 20, 1999 KMFDM released the album \"Adios\". Harris noted the coincidence of the album's title and release date in his journal \"a subliminal final \"Adios\" tribute to Reb and Vodka. thanks KMFDM... I ripped the hell outa the system\". He quotes \"Godlike\".\n\nSascha Konietzko of KMFDM issued a statement:\nFirst and foremost, KMFDM would like to express their deep and heartfelt sympathy for the parents, families and friends of the murdered and injured children in Littleton. We are sick and appalled, as is the rest of the nation, by what took place in Colorado yesterday.\n\nKMFDM are an art form—not a political party. From the beginning, our music has been a statement against war, oppression, fascism and violence against others. While some of the former band members are German as reported in the media, none of us condone any Nazi beliefs whatsoever.\n\nThe majority of that blame was directed at Marilyn Manson and his eponymous band. In the weeks following the shootings, media reports about Harris and Klebold portrayed them and the Trench Coat Mafia as part of a gothic cult. After being linked by news outlets and pundits with sensationalist headlines such as \"Killers Worshipped Rock Freak Manson\" and \"Devil-Worshipping Maniac Told Kids To Kill\", many came to believe that Manson's music and imagery were their sole motivation, despite later reports that the two were not fans. In truth, they were moderate fans of Manson, but not nearly as much as KMFDM, Rammstein, or Nine Inch Nails.\n\nIn the immediate aftermath, the band canceled the remaining North American dates of their \"Rock Is Dead Tour\" out of respect for the victims, while steadfastly maintaining that music, movies, books or video games were not to blame. Manson stated:\n\nOn May 1, 1999, Manson expanded his rebuttal to the accusations leveled at him and his band in an op-ed piece for \"Rolling Stone\" magazine, He castigated the ensuing hysteria and moral panic and criticized the news media for their irresponsible coverage; he chastised America's habit of hanging blame on scapegoats to escape responsibility. He rebuked the ensuing \"witch hunt\" and \"the sad fact that America puts killers on the cover of Time magazine, giving them as much notoriety as our favorite movie stars...Don't be surprised if every kid who gets pushed around has two new idols.\" Columbine and America's fixation on a culture of guns, blame, and \"celebrity by death\" was further explored in the group's 2000 album \"Holy Wood\".\n\nIn 2002, Manson appeared in Michael Moore's documentary, \"Bowling for Columbine\"; his appearance was filmed during the band's first show in Denver since the shooting. When Moore asked Manson what he would have said to the students at Columbine, he replied, \"I wouldn't say a single word to them. I would listen to what they have to say and that's what no one did.\"\n\nParents of some of the victims filed several unsuccessful lawsuits against film companies, over films such as \"The Basketball Diaries\", which includes a dream sequence with a student shooting his classmates in a trench coat. In the Basement Tapes, they debate on whether or not Steven Spielberg or Quentin Tarantino are appropriate choices to direct films about the massacre. Their home videos also show inspiration taken from \"Pulp Fiction\". Both were fans of the film \"Lost Highway\". \"Apocalypse Now\" was found in Harris's VCR.\n\nThey were avid fans of the movie \"Natural Born Killers\", and used the film's acronym, NBK, as a code for the massacre. In February 1998, Klebold envisioned a massacre with a girl like in the film, writing \"Soon...either ill commit suicide, or I'll get w. [redacted girl's name] & it will be NBK for us.\" In April 1998, Harris wrote \"When I go NBK and people say things like \"oh it was tragic\" or \"oh he is crazy!\" or \"It was so bloody.\" I think, so the fuck what you think that's a bad thing?\" In Harris's yearbook Klebold wrote \"the holy April morning of NBK\". Around February 1999, he wrote \"maybe going \"NBK\" (gawd) w. eric is the way to break free.\" In Harris's last journal entry, he wrote \"Everything I see and I hear I incorporate into NBK somehow...feels like a Goddamn movie sometimes.\"\n\nViolent video games were also blamed. Parents of some of the victims also filed several unsuccessful lawsuits against video game manufacturers.\n\nBoth Harris and Klebold were fans of shooter video games such as \"Doom\", \"Quake,\" \"Duke Nukem 3D\", \"Wolfenstein 3D\", and \"Postal\". Harris wrote the massacre will \"be like the LA riots, the Oklahoma bombing, WWII, Vietnam, Duke and Doom all mixed together.\" \"Duke Nukem 3D\" had pipe bombs. In \"Postal\" the main character shoots himself in the mouth rather like Harris did. In the cafeteria, Harris shot at the propane bombs, expecting them to explode. In several shooter games including \"Doom\" and \"Duke Nukem 3D\", explosions can be set off by shooting at barrels or tanks or bombs. In his last journal entry, Harris wished to \"Get a few extra frags on the scoreboard.\"\n\nThey were fans of \"Doom\" especially. Harris said of the massacre, \"It's going to be like fucking \"Doom\".\" He also wrote \"I must not be sidetracked by my feelings of sympathy...so I will force myself to believe that everyone is just another monster from Doom.\" In Harris's yearbook, Klebold wrote \"I find a similarity between people and Doom zombies\".\n\nIn \"Doom\", the first gun you obtain after the handgun you start with is a pump-action shotgun. Harris named his sawn off, pump-action shotgun Arlene after a character in the Doom novels. Harris said the gun was \"straight out of \"Doom\"\". Klebold had a TEC-9 and a sawn off, double-barreled shotgun. The Doom novels and Harris's journal reference an AB-10 several times, which is like a TEC-9. \"Doom II\" introduces the \"super shotgun\", which is a sawn off, double-barreled shotgun.\n\nRumors that the layout of the \"Doom\" levels Harris created resembled that of CHS circulated after the massacre, but appear to be untrue, though some still believe it. Harris spent a great deal of time creating a large WAD, named Tier (a song by Rammstein), calling it his \"life's work.\" The WAD was uploaded to the Columbine school computer and to AOL shortly before the attack, but appears to have been lost.\n\nEric David Harris (April 9, 1981 – April 20, 1999) was born in Wichita, Kansas. The Harris family relocated often, as Harris's father was a U.S. Air Force transport pilot. His mother was a homemaker. The family moved from Plattsburgh, New York, to Littleton, Colorado, in July 1993, when his father retired from military service.\n\nThe Harris family lived in rented accommodations for the first three years that they lived in the Littleton area. During this time, he attended Ken Caryl Middle School, and Harris met Klebold. In 1996, the Harris family purchased a house south of CHS. His older brother attended college at the University of Colorado Boulder.\n\nDylan Bennet Klebold (; September 11, 1981 – April 20, 1999) was born in Lakewood, Colorado. His parents were pacifists and attended a Lutheran church with their children. Both Dylan and his older brother attended confirmation classes in accordance with the Lutheran tradition. As had been the case with his older brother, Klebold was named after a renowned poet – in his case the playwright Dylan Thomas.\n\nAt the family home, the Klebolds also observed some rituals in keeping with Klebold's maternal grandfather's Jewish heritage. Klebold attended Normandy Elementary in Littleton, Colorado for the first two grades before transferring to Governor's Ranch Elementary and became part of the CHIPS (\"Challenging High Intellectual Potential Students\") program. He found the transition to Ken Caryl Middle School difficult.\n\nUnlike the white caps of the jocks, Harris and Klebold wore black baseball caps. As was typical in the 1990s, they wore them backwards. Harris wore a KMFDM cap, and apparently did not wear it during the massacre. Klebold's cap had a Colorado Avalanche logo on the front and a Boston Red Sox logo sewn onto the back.\n\nFollowing the Columbine shooting, schools across the United States instituted new security measures such as see-through backpacks, metal detectors, school uniforms, and security guards. Some schools implemented school door numbering to improve public safety response. Several schools throughout the country resorted to requiring students to wear computer-generated IDs.\n\nSchools also adopted a zero tolerance approach to possession of weapons and threatening behavior by students.\nDespite the effort, several social science experts feel the zero tolerance approach adopted in schools has been implemented too harshly, with unintended consequences creating other problems.\n\nSome schools renewed existing anti-bullying policies. Rachel's Challenge was started by Rachel Scott's parents, and lectures schools about bullying and suicide.\n\nPolice departments reassessed their tactics and now train for Columbine-like situations after criticism over the slow response and progress of the SWAT teams during the shooting. Sheriff Stone did not seek reelection.\n\nPolice followed the traditional tactic at Columbine: surround the building, set up a perimeter, and contain the damage. That approach has been replaced by a tactic that takes into account the presence of an active shooter whose interest is to kill, not to take hostages, known as the Immediate Action Rapid Deployment tactic. This tactic calls for a four-person team to advance into the site of any ongoing shooting, optimally a diamond-shaped wedge, but even with just a single officer if more are not available. Police officers using this tactic are trained to move toward the sound of gunfire and neutralize the shooter as quickly as possible. Their goal is to stop the shooter at all costs; they are to walk past wounded victims, as the aim is to prevent the shooter from killing or wounding more. Dave Cullen has stated: \"The active protocol has proved successful at numerous shootings...At Virginia Tech alone, it probably saved dozens of lives.\"\n\nAfter the massacre, many survivors and relatives of deceased victims filed lawsuits. Under Colorado state law at the time, the maximum a family could receive in a lawsuit against a government agency was $600,000. Most cases against the Jeffco police department and school district were dismissed by the federal court on the grounds of government immunity. The case against the sheriff's office regarding the death of Dave Sanders was not dismissed due to the police preventing paramedics from going to his aid for hours after they knew the gunmen were dead. The case was settled out of court in August 2002 for $1,500,000.\n\nIn April 2001, the families of more than 30 victims received a $2,538,000 settlement in their case against the families of Harris, Klebold, Manes, and Duran. Under the terms of the settlement, the Harrises and the Klebolds contributed $1,568,000 through their homeowners' policies, with another $32,000 set aside for future claims; the Manes contributed $720,000, with another $80,000 set aside for future claims; and the Durans contributed $250,000, with an additional $50,000 available for future claims. The family of victim Shoels, rejected this settlement, but in June 2003 were ordered by a judge to accept a $366,000 settlement in their $250-million lawsuit against the shooters' families. In August 2003, the families of victims Fleming, Kechter, Rohrbough, Townsend, and Velasquez received undisclosed settlements in a wrongful death suit against the Harrises and Klebolds.\n\nIn 2000, youth advocate Melissa Helmbrecht organized a remembrance event in Denver featuring two surviving students, called \"A Call to Hope.\" The library where most of the massacre took place was removed and replaced with an atrium. In 2001, a new library, the HOPE memorial library, was built next to the west entrance.\n\nOn February 26, 2004, thousands of pieces of evidence from the massacre were put on display at the Jeffco fairgrounds in Golden.\n\nA permanent memorial \"to honor and remember the victims of the April 20, 1999 shootings at Columbine High School\" was dedicated on September 21, 2007, in Clement Park. The memorial fund raised $1.5 million in donations over eight years of planning.\n\nThe shooting resulted in calls for more gun control measures. In 2000, federal and state legislation was introduced that would require safety locks on firearms as well as ban the importation of high-capacity ammunition magazines. Though laws were passed that made it a crime to buy guns for criminals and minors, there was considerable controversy over legislation pertaining to background checks at gun shows. There was concern in the gun lobby over restrictions on Second Amendment rights in the United States.\n\nMichael Moore's \"Bowling for Columbine\" focuses heavily on a perceived American obsession with handguns, its grip on Jeffco, and its role in the shooting.\n\n\"Columbine\" has since become a euphemism for a school shooting, rather like \"going postal\". A video game called Super Columbine Massacre RPG! was based on the massacre.\n\nThe 2016 biographical film \"I'm Not Ashamed\", based on the journals of Rachel Scott, includes glimpses of Harris's and Klebold's lives and interactions with other students at CHS.\n\nThe 1999 black comedy, \"Duck! The Carbine High Massacre\" is inspired by the Columbine massacre. The 2003 Gus Van Sant film \"Elephant\" depicts a fictional school shooting, but is based in part on the Columbine massacre. The 2003 Ben Coccio film \"Zero Day\" was also based on the massacre.\n\nAlso in 2003, the Uwe Boll film \"Heart of America: Home Room\" was released. The film's main plot focuses on two bullied students, who plan to carry out a school shooting on the last day of school after being tortured by the school jocks. The main character has second thoughts and quits at the last minute, while the other carries out the plan with a female accomplice. The film is believed to have been inspired by several shootings that are listed before the credits, Columbine being among them.\n\nThe first documentary on Columbine may have been the TLC documentary \"Lost Boys\" in 2000. The 2002 Michael Moore documentary film \"Bowling for Columbine\" won several awards. Also in 2002, A&E made \"Columbine: Understanding Why\".\n\nIn 2004, the shooting was dramatized in the documentary \"Zero Hour\". In 2007, the massacre was documented in an episode of the National Geographic Channel documentary series, \"The Final Report\".\n\nIn the 2009 film \"April Showers\", which was written and directed by Andrew Robinson, who was a senior at CHS during the shooting. The 2013 film \"Kids for Cash\" about the kids for cash scandal detail it as part of the \"zero-tolerance\" policy in the wake of the Columbine shootings.\n\nFoster the People's \"Pumped Up Kicks\" was inspired by the massacre.\n\nColumbine students Jonathan and Stephen Cohen wrote a song called \"Friend Of Mine (Columbine)\", which briefly received airplay in the US after being performed at a memorial service broadcast on nationwide television. The song was pressed to CD, with the proceeds benefiting families affected by the massacre, and over 10,000 copies were ordered. Shortly following the release of the CD single, the song was also featured on the \"Lullaby for Columbine\" CD.\n\nSince the advent of online social media, a fandom for shooters Harris and Klebold has had a documented presence on social media sites, especially Tumblr. Fans of Harris and Klebold refer to themselves as \"Columbiners.\" An article published in 2015 in the \"Journal of Transformative Works\", a scholarly journal which focuses on the sociology of fandoms, noted that Columbiners were not fundamentally functionally different from more mainstream fandoms. Columbiners create fan art and fan fiction, and have a scholarly interest in the shooting.\n\nThe Columbine shootings influenced subsequent school shootings. Many school shooting plots mention it. Shortly after, a rash of copycat threats led to the closing of entire districts. One arrested student boasted he could \"outdo\" its number of casualties.\n\nThe first copycat may have been the W. R. Myers High School shooting, just 8 days later, when a 14-year old Canadian student went into his school at lunchtime, with a sawed-off .22 rifle under his dark blue trench coat, and opened fire, killing one student. A month after the massacre, Heritage High School in Conyers, Georgia had a shooting which Attorney General Janet Reno called a Columbine \"copycat\". A friend of Harris and Klebold, Eric Veik, was arrested after threatening to \"finish the job\" at CHS in October, 1999. \n\nIn 2001, Charles Andrew Williams, the Santana High School shooter, reportedly told his friends that he was going to \"pull a Columbine,\" though none of them took him seriously.\nIn 2005, Jeff Weise, an American Indian who wore a trench coat, killed his grandfather, who was a police officer, and his girlfriend. He took his grandfather's weapon and his squad car, and drove to his former high school in Red Lake and murdered several students before committing suicide. In an apparent reference to Columbine, he asked one student if they believed in God.\n\nConvicted students Brian Draper and Torey Adamcik of Pocatello High School in Idaho, who murdered their classmate Cassie Jo Stoddart, mentioned Harris and Klebold in their homemade videos, and were reportedly planning a \"Columbine-like\" shooting. In December 2007, a man killed two at a Youth With A Mission center in Arvada, Colorado and another two at the New Life Church in Colorado Springs before committing suicide. He quoted Harris prior to the attack under the heading \"Christianity is YOUR Columbine\".\n\nIn a self-made video recording sent to the news media by Seung-Hui Cho prior to his committing the Virginia Tech shootings, he referred to the Columbine massacre as an apparent motivation. In the recording, he wore a backwards baseball cap and referred to Harris and Klebold as \"martyrs.\" Adam Lanza, the perpetrator of the Sandy Hook Elementary School shooting had \"an obsession with mass murders, in particular the April 1999 shootings at Columbine High School in Colorado.\"\n\nThe perpetrator of the Emsdetten school shooting praised Harris in his diary.\n\nIn November 2007, Pekka-Eric Auvinen imitated Columbine with a shooting in Jokela in Tuusula, Finland. He wore a shirt saying \"Humanity is Overrated\".\nThe perpetrator of the Dawson College shooting wrote a note praising Harris and Klebold. The Tumblr fandom gained widespread media attention in February 2015 after three of its members conspired to commit a mass shooting at a Halifax mall on Valentine's Day.\n\nIn 2017, two 15-year-old school boys from Northallerton, UK were charged with conspiracy to murder after becoming infatuated with the crime and \"hero-worshipping\" Harris and Klebold.\n\nRalph Larkin wrote the Columbine massacre established a script for school shootings. Larkin examined twelve major school shootings in the US in the following eight years and found that in eight of those, \"the shooters made explicit reference to Harris and Klebold.\" Larkin wrote \"Numerous post-Columbine rampage shooters referred directly to Columbine as their inspiration; others attempted to supersede the Columbine shootings in body count.\"\n\nIn 2012, sociologist Nathalie E. Paton of the National Center for Scientific Research in Paris analyzed the videos created by post-Columbine school shooting perpetrators. A recurring set of motifs was found, including explicit statements of admiration and identification with previous perpetrators. Paton said the videos serve the perpetrators by distinguishing themselves from their classmates and associating themselves with the previous perpetrators.\n\nA 2014 investigation by ABC News identified \"at least 17 attacks and another 36 alleged plots or serious threats against schools since the assault on Columbine High School that can be tied to the 1999 massacre.\" Ties identified by ABC News included online research by the perpetrators into the Columbine shooting, clipping news coverage and images of Columbine, explicit statements of admiration of Harris and Klebold, such as writings in journals and on social media, in video posts, and in police interviews, timing planned to an anniversary of Columbine, plans to exceed the Columbine victim counts, and other ties.\n\nA 2015 investigation by CNN identified \"more than 40 people...charged with Columbine-style plots.\" According to psychiatrist E. Fuller Torrey of the Treatment Advocacy Center, a legacy of the Columbine shootings is its \"allure to disaffected youth.\" In 2015, journalist Malcolm Gladwell writing in \"The New Yorker\" magazine proposed a threshold model of school shootings in which Harris and Klebold were the triggering actors in \"a slow-motion, ever-evolving riot, in which each new participant's action makes sense in reaction to and in combination with those who came before.\"\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18420059", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18420059", "title": "Consumer brain–computer interfaces", "text": "Consumer brain–computer interfaces\n\nThere are various consumer brain-computer interfaces available for sale. These are devices that generally use an electroencephalography (EEG) headset to pick up EEG signals, a processor that cleans up and amplifies the signals, and converts them into desired signals, and some kind of output device. \n\nAs of 2012, EEG headsets ranged from simple dry single-contact devices to more elaborate 16-contact, wetted contacts, and output devices included toys like a tube containing a fan that blows harder or softer depending on how hard the user concentrates which in turn moved a ping-pong ball, video games, or a video display of the EEG signal.\n\nCompanies developing products in the space have taken different approaches.\n\nNeurosky grew out of work in an academic lab in Korea in the early 2000s; the team used an EEG headset to control the speed of a remote-controlled car and their device also used Eye tracking to control the direction the car moved. The scientists initially intended to establish a company that would develop and sell toys, but when the company was founded in Silicon Valley, it focused mostly on providing devices and software to other companies as an OEM. In 2010 the company released a product called Mindwave with one contact, a processor, an application (and a mobile app) that could display the EEG signal, and several games and other apps; the included an API so developers could create new apps using the data.\n\nIn 2007 the Canadian scientist Ariel Garten formed InteraXon with Trevor Coleman and Chris Aimone to commercialize her research on brain-computer interfaces, with an initial focus on output devices that could do practical tasks like turn off lights, control audio devices, or move objects. The company released a headset and processor called Muse with seven electrodes, with an app and an API.\n\nIn the 2010s French scientists Yohan Attal and Thibaud Dumas founded myBrain to commercialize their research, and worked with the Brain and Spine Institute (ICM) in Paris to create an EEG headset called melomind with four electrodes, with an app for stress management.\n\nAround the same time OpenBCI was founded by Joel Murphy to create an open source set of devices, processors, and software aimed at biohackers and researchers that incorporates other sensors along with EEG electrodes.\n"}
{"id": "19455353", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19455353", "title": "Critical terrorism studies", "text": "Critical terrorism studies\n\nCritical terrorism studies (CTS) applies a critical theory approach rooted in counter-hegemonic and politically progressive critical theory to the study of terrorism. With links to the Frankfurt School of critical theory and the Aberystwyth School of critical security studies, CTS seeks to understand terrorism as a social construction, or a label, that is applied to certain violent acts through a range of political, legal and academic processes. It also seeks to understand and critique dominant forms of counter-terrorism.\n\nFollowing the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001; there has been a massive increase in research related to terrorism. Terrorism has become one of the most powerful signifiers in contemporary society with the term generating vast amounts of social and political activity. It has also become a cultural taboo which invokes emotions – fear and hatred. CTS takes issue with previous terrorism studies in what it perceives as having methodological and analytical weaknesses, including a reliance on poor research methods and procedures, an overreliance on secondary resources, and a failure to undertake primary research; a failure to come up with an accepted definition of terrorism, and an inability to be cross-disciplinary. According to Jeroen Gunning: \"core epistemological, methodological and political-normative problems persist, ranging from lack of conceptual clarity and theoretical sterility to political bias and a continuing dearth of primary research data\". CTS is a response to these research problems. With its origins in the Frankfurt School of critical theory, and the Welsh School of critical security studies (in which the primary referent to be secured is individuals not states), CTS is a self-reflective, critical approach to the study of terrorism which challenges the ontological, epistemological and ideological commitments of mainstream terrorism scholars. CTS also looks to attract academics from other disciplines who are uncomfortable with the mainstream discourse around terrorism and looks to engage directly with those who are perceived as 'terrorists' and/or terrorist sympathisers.\n\nCTS aims to approach terrorism studies from a critical angle, that is, to encourage and further the adoption of a more self-consciously critical approach to the study of terrorism. However CTS does not only criticise the state of terrorism studies, it also attempts to \"suggest an alternative way of studying terrorism and a concrete research agenda for the future\". While critical approaches to the study of terrorism are not new, previous efforts have often occurred outside of the terrorism studies field. Such as the critical approach that some anthropology scholars have taken. These alternative approaches have \"had little cross-fertilization with the orthodox field and have largely failed to alter its practices, priorities, approaches, outputs and myths\". CTS seeks to engage directly with the orthodox field, and question its normative assumptions. Prompted by the growing unease over the state of current terrorism research, and the relationship between much orthodox terrorism research and the institutions of state power, CTS sets out to \"stimulate, encourage, and more clearly articulate the nascent but observable 'critical turn' that was starting to become visible within the broader terrorism studies field\".\n\nCTS scholars argue that terrorism should be de-exceptionalised as a form of political violence, not singled out as a unique form of \"evil\" violence, but should be treated as other forms of political violence are. CTS also encourages researchers to engage with terrorists as humans, and not form explanations of terrorists in an 'Othering' sense. Therefore; \"Ultimately, a critical approach to terrorism suggests that more positive and progressive change is always possible and that we can break out of seemingly endless cycles of terrorist/counter-terrorist violence, if only we can begin to think, study, speak and act outside of the dominant terrorism paradigm.\"\n\nCTS's antecedents lie with scholars such as Noam Chomsky and Edward Herman, who published critical works relating to the state and terrorism from the late 1970s. One of the first major works that gave impetus to a CTS discourse was Joseba Zulaika and William Douglass's seminal work, \"Terror and Taboo: The Follies, Fables, and Faces of Terrorism\". This book was a critical appraisal of many of the international community's commonly-held assumptions about terrorism. A further catalyst for CTS came from Richard Jackson's 2005 book, \"Writing the War on Terrorism\". Jackson called for scholars to resist the current terrorism studies discourse: \"I believe we have an ethical duty to resist the discourse, to deconstruct it at every opportunity and continually to interrogate the exercise of power\". The setting up of the Critical Studies on Terrorism Working Group (CSTWG) within the British International Studies Association (BISA) occurred in early 2006, while in October 2006, a conference was held entitled; 'Is it time for a critical terrorism studies?' This was followed by two journal articles that called for a critical appraisal of the current state of terrorism studies. Richard Jackson's \"Introduction: The Case for Critical Terrorism Studies\" and Jeroen Gunning's \"A case for Critical Terrorism Studies\". In his \"A case for Critical Terrorism Studies\", Gunning calls for a critical approach that will \"encourage researchers to historicize and contextualize the conflict by looking at the evolution of violence, broader processes of radicalization, the relationship between violent organizations and wider social movements, and the relationship between social movements and the state.\"\n\nThe setting up of the journal \"Critical Studies in Terrorism\" occurred in early 2007. The idea behind launching the journal was \"one small part of a much broader attempt to foster a more self-reflective, critical approach to the study of terrorism, and bring in those who study aspects of 'terrorism', but are uncomfortable with or hostile to the (perceived) ontological, epistemological, and ideological commitments of existing terrorism studies.\" CTS has continued to expand as a sub-discipline of terrorism studies and there has been a growth of CTS programs in universities such as Aberystwyth University, the University of Kent and the University of Manchester. Other courses also exist within peace studies and politics programmes in universities such as Otago University, Durham University, Georgetown University, Virginia Tech, University of Florida, and Queens University Belfast. A major milestone in CTS will be the \"Handbook of Critical Terrorism Studies\" due to be published by Routledge in 2015.\n\nThere has been a huge amount of academic discussion about the ontological and epistemological foundations of critical terrorism studies. Within CTS, there is a broad agreement on the need to examine terrorism and terrorists from a historical, contextualized perspective asking 'how' questions of causation and constitution, rather than the more orthodox problem solving questions of a single isolated event. For instance, CTS questions why a terrorist action happens, asking whether the terrorists simply hate western notions of freedom, or whether they have deeper underlying political motivations? CTS adopts the ontological position that \"terrorism\" is fundamentally a social fact rather than brute fact.\n\nCTS adopts the epistemological position that the nature of knowledge in terrorism studies is a social process which relies on contextual factors, including the influence of the researcher. CTS scholars argue that by being continuously aware of context, social processes, and the 'known' and 'unknown' knowledge in circulation, you can gain further insights into the study of terrorism. CTS also acknowledges the link between power and knowledge, and who research is ultimately for.\n\n\nCTS differs from orthodox/traditional terrorism studies (OTS) in several fundamental ways. Some of the most significant points of difference include its emphasis on the utilization of critical theory in research, its focus on removing the bias of ethnocentrism from all research, its goal to facilitate the spread of emancipation of peoples previously marginalized in traditional terrorism studies, and its attempt to avoid political bias and a problem-solving policy-orientation.\n\nScholars created CTS in response to what they felt was missing from traditional terrorism studies, namely, the critical aspect of research. Employing critical thinking in terrorism research can mean employing any one of several existing critical theories (such as Derrida's deconstruction, Foucault's post-structuralism, or Althusser's structuralism, etc.) But, in a broader sense, it simply means researching and writing to challenge commonly held social, political, and personal beliefs about terrorism that often go unchallenged (specifically in traditional terrorism studies). OTS scholars agree that critical thinking and the utilization of critical theory should be a prominent aspect of any valuable research. However, they also feel that such research already exists within the field of terrorism studies and that CTS is bringing more of a critical eye to the field, but that there is no cause for it to be a whole separate sub-field. However, unlike traditional terrorism studies, CTS is strict on its adherence to the critical element of research, as it believes critical analysis is one of the few ways to overcome the problematic gaps within traditional terrorism studies. CTS also hopes that the critical element will also eventually bridge the traditional and critical approaches, if both begin to follow the research procedures that allow critical analysis.\n\nCTS attempts to combat what they feel is a prevalent state-centricity and ethnocentricity in traditional terrorism studies. Prominent scholars Jackson, Gunning and Smyth claim that since most research on terrorism is done by state-sponsored scholars and experts, there is a disproportionate amount of research articulating states' perspectives and experiences (namely western state-actors), leaving almost all non-state actors without any fair, unbiased representation in the research field. In response to this, CTS challenges state-centric or ethnocentric research by responding directly to already published research, finding holes and gaps in the arguments, and by completing new research that challenges ethnocentric claims and provides new claims from the perspective of non-state entities, and specifically, the perspectives of the so-labeled 'terrorists' themselves. OTS scholars see this shift from so-called \"state centrism\" as obvious and not wholly necessary. Bias is unavoidable and viewing it as such has the possibility to weaken arguments already made. Also, there is not a complete lack of ethnocentric-free research within terrorism studies and therefore CTS is seen as simply creating a bifurcation between the subfields. Despite this criticism, CTS remains determined to conduct research free from state-centric and ethnocentric perspectives, opening space for new perspectives and discourses that may have been overlooked by terrorism studies as a whole.\n\nWhen referring to the emancipatory nature of research, CTS is referring not only to the emancipation of previously marginalized peoples' voices in the field of OTS, but the emancipation of ideas, questions and theories that have been marginalized, overlooked, or seen as non-issues in orthodox studies. A simple way to understand CTS's emancipation is to think of it as a process of creating space and discussion that allows the focus to be on experiences, ideas and questions which have been \"neglected in most orthodox accounts of security and terrorism\". The emancipation of ideas, dialogue, and experience is a powerful \"philosophical anchorage\" that allows CTS to separate itself and its motives from that of traditional and orthodox terrorism studies. Traditional terrorism studies theorists understand the value behind the idea of emancipatory nature of CTS's research, but many feel such a claim is overstated. CTS's claim of emancipation is seen as simply reinventing the wheel, a wheel that has been working effectively for orthodox scholars for decades. And the claim to be the first in a field as politically charged and somewhat emotionally delicate as terrorism studies to ask hard questions and challenge commonly held beliefs and assumptions is seen as a gross over-simplification and generalization that risks replacing one dominant discourse with another, and in turn, marginalizing the research and voices of traditional terrorism studies. Despite traditional terrorism studies' negative response to CTS's emancipatory claim, CTS still strives to keep emancipation as one of its core motivations for continued research. Emancipatory research in terrorism studies can bring to light overlooked perspectives such as the war in Iraq being a form of occupation bringing more violence than peace, the idea that State sponsored research is often biased and unreliable and that any and all valuable research should be conducted free of political bias to truly increase understanding. These few listed ideas are examples of what CTS hopes to bring to the field of terrorism studies through emancipatory research.\n\nOne of the largest voids of orthodox terrorism studies CTS aims to fill is the void of politically neutral and policy-free research and ideas. Post-9/11, almost all research on terrorism has been sponsored and conducted by state-actors, many standing to gain politically from the conclusions drawn from such research. CTS feels that the prominent discourse maintained by State-sponsored terrorism research contributes to the justification of state terrorism and de-legitimizes any argument that would challenge or condemn such actions. Also, when research is sponsored for political reasons, the 'experts' become not those who have the most relevant experience, but those who are willing to support whatever political view that will result in more funding, and those who are willing to adhere to any current policy around terrorism (e.g. \"Our country does not negotiate with terrorists\" therefore all research reflects the impossibility of negotiating with terrorist).\n\nOrthodox terrorism studies researchers see the idea of political and policy neutral research as a nice sentiment, but impossible to execute. Many have criticized CTS for claiming policy free and politically neutral research, as even the word terrorism itself is not free of any political meaning and connotation. And since many scholars study and research the causes, effects, and nature of terrorism because of passionate ideas and interests, it would be irresponsible to assert that simply because a piece of research is free of state centricism and bias that it is automatically politically neutral. Again, traditional terrorism studies sees CTS's research attempts as oversimplifications to claim innovation in an already established field.\n\nHowever, CTS sees the criticism from orthodox scholars as extenuating the need for there to be more than one avenue of academic discourse available. By aiming to keep all research politically neutral and policy free, a space opens up for experts with non-state experience to enter a field which was previously unavailable to them. And again, politically neutral scholars are more able to bring to attention and help fight acts of state terrorism that are often overlooked and even justified in orthodox studies.\n\nCTS's new approach and perspective has been widely welcomed in the field of terrorism studies. Nevertheless, it has been subject to criticism for its desire to distinguish itself from what it deems \"traditional\" or \"orthodox\" terrorism studies, and for its claim of maintaining absolute political neutrality. However, scholars both from critical and traditional terrorism studies remain determined not to allow any distinction between the subfields to cause bifurcation and incompatibility within the field of research itself.\n\nCTS would not have come into existence unless scholars saw the need for a change in many of the perspectives within terrorism studies as a whole. Some of the most common criticisms CTS consistently presents including the inconsistent 'definition' of terrorism, the political power held by most Orthodox scholars, the ineffectiveness of the War on Terror, the glorification of patriotism, and the demonising narrative of the 'enemy'.\n\nThe term \"terrorism\" gained prominence during the French Revolution when it was used by the Jacobins to kill known supporters of the Ancien Régime, and to eliminate those labeled enemies of the revolution. Thus, the state was the first proponent of using terrorism as a political tool. Moving into the twentieth century, the regimes of Nazi Germany and Soviet Russia, through the use of secret police, used tension to subdue and kill those deemed enemies of the state. Further, a number of Latin American states backed by the US utilised state-terrorism to silence the population and consolidate their control – Chile and Nicaragua in particular. Up until this point, terrorism was largely, though not exclusively, defined by its use by state. And it was not until later that academic circles shifted the focus to non-state actors. There is research to suggest that states that have witnessed severe upheaval throughout their history will utilise state-terrorism. Such as Iraq, Syria, Israel, Burundi, Rwanda, Zaire, Myanmar, Indonesia, Serbia and Chechnya. Furthermore, for weak states, state terrorism is often viewed as a legitimate total state consolidation.\n\nTerrorism therefore has a number of meanings and interpretations that we can use to assess terrorist acts in the contemporary era. Terrorism is a heavily contested concept and it is the context in which a violent act occurs as to how people define the act. It is symbolic violence, a communicative act, with the sole purpose to send the message. It is the psychological effect of using fear, as it is not the victims of a terrorist act. But the wider audience who are the target, because the victims become instrumental as they are the message carriers.\n\n\nA CTS critique of OTS revolves around many OTS scholars' links to institutions of power. CTS questions these links to hegemonic actors and structures from the global North that can be seen to be furthering the agendas of certain states, because OTS is a discipline that is primarily concerned with looking at acts of terrorism by non-state actors. This is a very state-centric perspective which has a limited set of assumptions and narratives about the nature and cause of terrorism. Moreover, this becomes accepted as the general consensus at the macro, meso and micro levels of government and institutions, and is reflected in policy and the way the mainstream view terrorism. Traditional terrorism studies is also largely concerned with \"problem solving theory\", which looks at the world \"with the prevailing social and power relationships and the institutions into which they are organised, as the given framework for action\", and then works to \"make these relationships and institutions work smoothly by dealing effectively with particular sources of trouble\". Therefore, they look at dealing with the issue of terrorism within the current dominant structures of power. An example of this is the scholars and associated research that is affiliated with the RAND Corporation. Now an independent think tank, RAND was established by the US air force in 1945, and was contracted to the Douglas Aircraft Company. It has maintained close links with US administrations, and former board members include Donald Rumsfeld and Condoleezza Rice, both leading members of the George W. Bush administration. The major problem with this association with government is that it privileges research on threats by non-state actors, and marginalises research around state sponsorship of terrorism. According to Burnett and Whyte, the Corporation acts \"effectively as an influential prestigious voice in the American military-industrial lobby and in world politics; particularly with regard to its interventions on the war on terror\". Scholars, or \"embedded experts\" associated with RAND have key editorial positions in the two most prominent English-language terrorism journals, \"Terrorism and Political Violence\" and \"Conflict and Terrorism\". RAND scholars helped to found the St Andrew Centre for Studies in Terrorism and Political Violence (CSTPV), the leading centre for the study of terrorism in the UK. As well, experts associated with the RAND-St Andrews nexus have significant professional ties with businesses and military personal associated with counter-terrorism activity, many of which have made \"windfall profits\" in the Iraq conflict.\n\nOn 11 September 2001, 19 terrorists – in association with Al-Qaeda – hijacked four commercial planes and flew them into the Twin Towers of the World Trade Center in New York City, The Pentagon in Arlington County, Virginia, and a field near Stonycreek Township, Somerset County, Pennsylvania. The number of deaths is estimated at 2996 casualties. In the following days, President George W. Bush declared a War on Terror to prevent any more terrorist attacks on the Western world. Bush immediately framed these terrorists as being motivated by Islamic extremism; an evil, destructive and repressive people who America refused to negotiate with and must defeat (45). The estimates of how many thousands of civilians, insurgents, soldiers (both American and otherwise) and Islamists that have been killed in the war on terror vary widely from 220,000 to 650,000. However these statistics are unreliable due to their varied date, source and amount – it is not possible to know how many people have been victims of the war on terror. Not only has this war killed, tortured and displaced hundreds of thousands of people, there is no proof that it has been effective in reducing terrorism, and has led to a further proliferation of terrorist attacks.\n\nThe rationality behind Bush's decision to start a war on terrorism comes in four parts. First it was implemented as a preventive war, and as an excuse to act pre-emptively. Second, it was based on unilateralism, although where necessary, Bush attempted to enlist support from the international community. Third, there was an element of idealism that believed that war would help to spread democracy, human rights and liberties. And lastly, Bush endeavoured to maintain American hegemony by reaffirming the vital role of American military strength. It is argued that the negative effects of this war will be felt for generations, due to the culture of division, stereotyping and hate between the Middle East and the West. The formation of a new \"suspect community\" in the Middle East has undermined human rights and civil liberties, and impaired the functionality of the international system. Just war theory stands as the main justification for the war on terror. This means that new technologies and methods in war are legalized. The 2003 invasion of Iraq is viewed by many CTS scholars as an act of terror. Terror on terror makes no sense, and did not produce positive results. The attack on Iraq was illogical considering America's past partnership with Iraq, the whereabouts of Al-Qaeda's base and Osama bin Laden in Afghanistan, and also the men who attacked the twin towers were from Saudi Arabia. American power internationally meant that they authorized the attacks in Iraq and Afghanistan, and also drone strikes in Pakistan, Yemen and Somalia. While Bush legitimises the enemy by asserting that terrorists want to 'kill all Americans', there is no discernable difference between this falsified aim and the goal of American Military intervention in the Middle East. Barack Obama has continued the Bush-instigated War on Terror by plainly stating that the biggest threat to America is still terrorism. So, despite the reduction of military occupation in the Middle East, the trace of War on Terror still remains.\n\nThe overall ineffective and illegitimate result of the war on terror means that the costs have thus far outweighed the successes. Counter-terrorism efforts such as Targeted killing and drone strikes have backfired and are not proven to work, and have even perpetuated the number of terrorist attacks, including suicide bombings. While counter-terrorism may deter some attacks, it cannot prevent all, and often has the result of provoking rather than reducing terrorism. The Iraq War was not productive in countering terrorism. Upward of 60 examples of terrorist incidents in America are proven consequences of United States foreign policy and military intervention. Still, no academic scholar in orthodox terrorism studies has considered American military intervention as the primary problem. It is noted that at Faisal Shahzad's trial – following his failed 2010 Times Square car bombing attempt – he cited the drones that were killing the people of his community as the reason for his vengeance. Unmanned drone attacks in Afghanistan and Pakistan tend to target public places and gatherings, such as weddings and funerals, and are increasing the threat of terrorism. Violence emanates and results from counterinsurgency/terrorism. What America calls preventative war, the Middle East calls state terrorism.\n\nThroughout American history, military strength has been at the heart of identity; it is embedded in politics and culture. War as a solution is rooted in American culture, as The War of Independence and World War II are referred to as successes and justifications for future war. Rather than concentrating resources and money on problems that have widespread negative effects on American society, like poverty, education, health or the environment, the United States has spent US$1.283 trillion since 9/11 on military interventions internationally. The stereotype of the enemy is perpetuated and normalized through American culture, media, entertainment and politics. And the shared hate for the enemy contributes to a unified patriotism within America that deflects attention from the deeply entrenched inequalities within the nation. The war on terror acts as a distraction mechanism from local problems in the Western world, and maintains a war culture of its own that produces justifications and legitimate rationality for prolonging the war in the Middle East. The patriotism that the war on terror creates contributes to large sources of revenue for the American military industrial economy through mass surveillance, weapon suppliers, the CIA, military personnel and orthodox terrorism academics.\n\nThe culture of war is created through the imagery and language used in politics and popular entertainment in order to frame a narrative of the enemy. Islam and Muslims have been constructed as a dangerous other in Western culture. Not only do politicians – especially in the United States, Britain, Australia and New Zealand – inform the public of this enemy, this fictional reality is reinforced through journalism and entertainment in which the war is framed as inevitable and the enemy as evil. This all reinforces the fantasy that this war is about fighting evil in general, and the Western soldiers that are killed are fighting for a greater good. The hyperbolic, dramatic language used in the media casts the Western world as heroes who fight the villains. CTS reflects on who this narrative of the enemy benefits. This perception that reinforces patriotism and justifications for war, profits the Western world and furthers the dominance and oppression that divides the two regions.\nWhen the motives and ideology of terrorists are largely unknown – let alone the number and whereabouts – the greater the possibility is to rely on stereotype and myth-based discourse. Because the enemy is foreign (even alien) this possibility is increased due to limited knowledge and physical connection to the region. When reality falls short, the narrative of foreign peoples is shaped by \"shortcuts provided by stylized imagery compounded of stories, films and our own imaginations\". Politicians use this to back up their dehumanized claims, so the image of the terrorist mimics Osama bin Laden with the beard, turban, black eyes and hollow glum face creating a stereotyped stigma. This enemy is merciless, believes in extreme religious values and will do anything to destroy the West. Such imagery and language degrades common humanity, and prevents us from understanding that the enemy is a human who is victimized.\n\nJohn Urry was a pioneer in discussing the paradigms of mobilities within the age of terror. Per his viewpoint, terrorism operates in a world of contrasting complexities where the power, far from being static, flows. The power is mobile in the same way, its gravity-effects on the world of consumption. Terrorism divides the world in two safe and unsafe zones. Over past decades, many voices alerted on the negative effects of terrorism over the industry of tourism and mobilities in developed and underdeveloped economies. The emergent theories explained terrorism as an indicator of the lack of democracy, or even extreme poverty which represents a fertile ground for ethnic resentment necessary to rechannel terrorism. Since tourists are ambassadors of first World, not surprisingly they were targets of terrorist cells in zones dotted with lower levels of security. However, some other scholars questioned this idea considering that tourism recovers its attraction and growth after elapsed little time from the original event; or even producing \"traumaescape\" which means zones whipped by terrorism that becomes tourist attractions. Some sociological studies focus on the concept of Thana-Tourism or Dark tourism to denote a connection of terrorism and tourist consumption.\n"}
{"id": "3991055", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3991055", "title": "Cyril Abotomey", "text": "Cyril Abotomey\n\nCecil \"Cyril\" Abotomey (1902-1980) was an Australian rugby league footballer for the Eastern Suburbs club of the New South Wales Rugby League competition.\n\nAbotomey wasa Paddington junior in Rugby League and Cricket and also played junior Australian Rules football for the Double Bay side. In Rugby League he played in both the centre and wing positions and was a member of Eastern Suburbs 1923 premiership winning side. Abotomey was also a member of the Eastern Suburbs side that won the President's Cup in 1922, and is officially recognised as Eastern Suburbs 138th player. He eventually moved to Brisbane and continued his career there. He died in Brisbane in 1980 and was buried at the Toowong Cemetery on 22 December 1980.\n\n"}
{"id": "261424", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=261424", "title": "David McReynolds", "text": "David McReynolds\n\nDavid Ernest McReynolds (October 25, 1929 – August 17, 2018) was an American politician and social activist who was a prominent democratic socialist and pacifist activist. He described himself as \"a peace movement bureaucrat\" during his 40-year career with the War Resisters League. He was a resident of New York City. McReynolds was twice a candidate for President of the United States, running atop the ticket of the Socialist Party USA in 1980 and 2000.\n\nMcReynolds was born in Los Angeles, to Elizabeth Grace (Tallon), a nurse, and Lt. Col. Charles McReynolds, an Air Force intelligence officer. In 1951 he joined the Socialist Party of America (SPA) and in 1953 he graduated from UCLA with a degree in political science. Between 1957 and 1960, he worked for the editorial board of the left-wing magazine \"Liberation\". He was openly gay and wrote his first article about living as a gay man in 1969.\n\nMcReynolds was staunchly anti-war and a draft resister, and in 1960 joined the staff of the War Resisters League (WRL), where he remained until his retirement in 1999. In 1965 he lectured on 'The Old Left and the New Left' at the newly founded Free University of New York.\n\nOn November 6, 1965, he was one of five men who publicly burned their draft cards at an anti-war demonstration at Union Square in New York. This was one of the first public draft-card burnings after U.S. law was changed on August 30, 1965 to make such actions a felony, punishable by up to five years' imprisonment. He was close friends with Bayard Rustin and other prominent peace activists, as well as literary figures such as Quentin Crisp. In 1968, he signed the \"Writers and Editors War Tax Protest\" pledge, vowing to refuse tax payments in protest against the Vietnam War.\n\nMcReynolds was particularly active internationally, both in War Resisters' International of which he was chairperson for the term 1986–88, and in the International Confederation for Disarmament and Peace which eventually merged into the International Peace Bureau.\n\nThe SPA was renamed the Social Democrats USA by a majority vote at the 1972 convention. Michael Harrington resigned and then formed the Democratic Socialist Organizing Committee (now the Democratic Socialists of America, DSA) with the purpose of \"realignment\" strengthening the role of labor unions and other progressive organizations in the Democratic Party to pull it to the left. The smallest and the most left wing of the SPA, known as the Debs Caucus, including McReynolds, formed the Socialist Party USA (SPUSA). McReynolds was long a member of both DSA and SPUSA.\n\nMcReynolds' primary theoretical contribution to socialism came from his blending of a pacifist world-view with a commitment to re-distributive socialist economics. Politically, he was a staunch anti-authoritarian and collaborated with a diverse set of political formations on the democratic left. His widely read pamphlet, \"The Philosophy of Nonviolence\", provides a unique window into the mind of a lifelong activist wrestling with the contradictions and pitfalls which plagued the political left in the 20th century. He concludes that \"...there is no living, vital philosophy which does not have 'holes' in it.\" Consequently, he mapped out a pluralistic approach which is, on the one hand, socialist, yet is entirely engaged with thought systems as seemingly contradictory as Hindu philosophy. He concluded that a brand of pacifist-socialism is best suited for future socialist experiments since it offers the greatest opportunity to prefigure the kinds of democratic relations necessary to create a functional and free society.\n\nIn his political career, McReynolds ran for Congress from Lower Manhattan twice and for President twice. In 1958 he ran as a write-in SPA candidate and then in 1968 as a Peace and Freedom Party candidate for Congress in the 19th district pulling in 4.7% of the vote (3,969 votes). In 1980, he ran for President of the United States as the SPUSA candidate, with Diane Drufenbrock as vice presidential candidate, receiving 6,994 votes (0.01%). Upon the request of fellow Socialists, he ran again for President as the SPUSA candidate in 2000, with Mary Cal Hollis as his running mate, receiving 5,602 votes. In both 1980 and 2000, McReynolds received the endorsement and ballot line of the Liberty Union Party in Vermont.\n\nAfter the 2000 election, the \"Palm Beach Post\" speculated that 2,908 voters, \"mostly in elderly Jewish districts\", had mistakenly voted for both Al Gore, running for President on the Democratic ticket, and for McReynolds on a \"confusing butterfly ballot\", thereby resulting in voided votes, helping to cost Gore the state's crucial electoral votes.\n\nIn January 2015, the Socialist Party USA's National Committee voted to censure McReynolds over alleged racist comments made on social media regarding the Charlie Hebdo shooting and shooting of Michael Brown. He resigned from the SPUSA shortly thereafter.\n\nOn July 10, 2004, McReynolds announced his candidacy running on the Green Party ticket for one of the New York seats in the Senate, running an anti-war campaign against Democratic incumbent Chuck Schumer, where he pulled in 36,942 votes for 0.5% of total.\n\nMcReynolds was active politically until just before his death, attending meetings; speaking in classrooms; being interviewed for films and research; and participating in peace/justice/antiwar/antinuclear actions. His last arrest was at the U.S. Mission to the U.N. in 2015 at an action calling for immediate nuclear disarmament, starting with the U.S. \n\nHe was an avid photographer throughout his adult life and spent time during the last three years of his life sorting his collection of more than 50,000 photos. A photo website is linked under Works, below.\n\nIn 2015, McReynolds endorsed U.S. Senator Bernie Sanders for President of the United States, praising him as a \"serious candidate\" and for not personally attacking his Democratic rival Hillary Clinton.\n\nMcReynolds died on August 17, 2018, aged 88, following a fall he sustained at his New York City home.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "702218", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=702218", "title": "David Seymour (photographer)", "text": "David Seymour (photographer)\n\nDavid Seymour (born Dawid Szymin; November 20, 1911 – November 10, 1956), or Chim (pronounced \"shim\", an abbreviation of the surname \"Szymin\"), was a Polish photographer and photojournalist.\n\nChim was known for his images from the Spanish Civil War, for co-founding Magnum Photos with Henri Cartier-Bresson, Robert Capa and George Rodger, and for his project \"Children of War\" with UNICEF that captured the plight of children in the aftermath of World War II.\n\nHe became president of Magnum after Capa's death in 1954 and held this post until his own death in 1956 by Egyptian machinegun fire in the aftermath of the Suez crisis.\n\nChim was born to Polish Jewish parents in Warsaw in 1911. David had a sister, Eileen, who was three years older. Their parents were Regina and Benjamin Szymin, a respected publisher of Yiddish and Hebrew books. In 1914 Chim and his parents emigrated to Odessa just as World War I had begun. In 1919 they returned to Warsaw. Chim studied graphic arts in Leipzig and then traveled to Paris to study at the Sorbonne.\n\nIt was while Chim was studying at the Sorbonne in Paris that he became interested in photography. He began working as a freelance journalist in 1933. His first \"credited\" published photograph appeared in 1934 in the magazine \"Regards.\"\n\nBetween 1936 and 1938 Chim covered the Spanish Civil War (alongside colleague Robert Capa) and other international political events. In February 1935 Chim was sent to Spain by \"Regards\" to report on crucial issues there. Twenty five of his stories on Spain ended up being published in \"Regards.\"\n\nIn 1939 he covered the Loyalist Spanish war refugees on the S.S. Sinaia to Mexico and then later in the year he arrived in the United States. Chim was in New York City when World War II broke out in Europe when Nazi Germany invaded Poland, Chim's birthplace. In 1940 he enlisted in the United States Army, serving in Europe as a photo interpreter during the war. In 1942 he became a naturalized citizen of the United States, the same year that his parents were killed by the Nazis. Chim photographed for \"Life\", along with \"Look,\" \"Paris-Match\" and \"Regards.\"\n\nIn 1948 he received a commission through UNICEF and traveled to Austria, Hungary, Italy, Poland and Germany to document the plight of World War II refugee children. Inge Bondi, Chim scholar, said:\nChim's heart had always gone out to children, and they reacted to him with complete acceptance. They seemed oblivious of him, but he noticed every little movement, every little pain, every little pleasure. There is no artifice, no bravura of lighting expertise in Chim's photographs of the children. They speak simply from his pictures, as if alive. This intellectual, so adept at analyzing the most complex political situations, so comfortable photographing heads of state, produced his greatest photographs to help children in need.\n\nBetween 1949 and 1955 Chim travelled extensively throughout Europe and Israel, fulfilling assignments for major publications in Europe and the United States. Edward Steichen included his imagery, including his simple but eloquent picture of the worn hands of an older worker clutching a dip-pen to practice the letter 'a', in MoMA's 1955 world-touring The Family of Man, seen by 9 million visitors.\n\nIn 1947, Chim co-founded the Magnum Photos photography cooperative, together with Robert Capa and Henri Cartier-Bresson, whom he had befriended in Paris in the 1930s. As Inge Bondi, Chim scholar, stated:\n\nPhotojournalism was about to enter a golden decade. Television was not yet available to broadcast world events, and editors and the public were eager for news, from which they had been cut off during the fascist years and war years.\n\nAfter Capa's death in 1954, Chim became president of Magnum Photos. He held that post until his death on November 10, 1956.\n\nOn November 10, 1956, Chim was killed while driving to photograph an exchange of wounded soldiers at El Quantara (along with French photographer Jean Roy) by Egyptian machinegun fire four days after the armistice of the 1956 Suez War, ten days before his 45th birthday.\n\nChim's work remains available by way of Magnum Photos and his estate is managed by nephew Ben Shneiderman and niece Helen Sarid.\n\nChim's reputation for his photos of war orphans was magnified by his later work in photographing famous people of his time. These included:\n\n\nChim's work is held in the following public collections:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31608391", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31608391", "title": "Death of Ahmad Sarbani Mohamed", "text": "Death of Ahmad Sarbani Mohamed\n\nAhmad Sarbani Mohamed was a Malaysian customs officer from Port Klang. On 6 April 2011, he was found dead in an open air badminton court on the first floor of the Malaysian Anti-Corruption Commission (MACC) building in Kuala Lumpur. His death coincided with the MACC's investigation into allegations of corruption in the Royal Malaysian Customs. The MACC insists that Ahmad Sarbani was not murdered, nor did he commit suicide, but rather fell to his death trying to escape from the building. In September 2011, the coroner's court ruled the death an accident.\n\nAhmad Sarbani's death came nearly two years after the death of Teoh Beng Hock in the custody of the MACC. A royal commission of inquiry ruled Teoh's death as suicide resulting from abusive behaviour by MACC officers, a verdict which was rejected by the victim's family.\n\nAhmad Sarbani bin Mohamed was the Selangor Customs assistant director. He was attached to the Port Klang Customs office. At the time of his death, Ahmad Sarbani was 56 years old. He is survived by his parents, his wife, and five children.\n\nOn 29 March 2011, the MACC announced that it had uncovered a syndicate involved in tax evasion, money laundering and illegal money outflows worth RM108 billion. That figure was later revised to RM2.2 billion. A special task force comprising the MACC, the Inland Revenue Board, the Customs Department and Bank Negara Malaysia raided over 100 premises, including 25 Royal Malaysian Customs offices, in what was known as \"Operation 3B.\"\n\nAhmad Sarbani was among 62 customs officers who were detained relation to the investigation. He was first detained on 1 April 2011. He was then picked up again by the MACC for questioning on 4 April. During this round of questioning, he confessed to accepting between RM50 and RM100 a month from Schenker Logistics officer Wan Zainal Abidin Wan Zaki and between RM30 and RM200 a month from a Top Mark Freight & Shipping officer called Ah Seng. After giving his statement, Sarbani was released on bail.\n\nHe returned to the MACC building on Jalan Cochrane, Kuala Lumpur at 8:26am on 6 April, apparently to change a statement he had previously given. The MACC maintains he had gone on his own accord without prior appointment. According to MACC accounts, Ahmad Sarbani was brought into a room on the third floor by an officer and disappeared a few minutes after 10:15am. He was then found dead in the open air badminton court on the first floor at 10:20am.\n\nPolice classified the case as sudden death. \n\nIn a press conference after the news emerged, MACC director of investigations Mustafar Ali said Ahmad Sarbani went to the MACC building without prior appointment. Two MACC investigating officers who met Ahmad Sarbani were suspended on 8 April. The MACC also announced that all business with accused persons, suspects, witnesses and complainants would be conducted only on the ground floor with heightened supervision.\n\nNone of the Customs officers initially held under the tax evasion and money laundering allegations has been charged.\n\nAhmad Sarbani's family lawyers denied allegations that he was involved in money laundering and rejected suggestions that he committed suicide.\n\nOn 2 June 2011, Attorney-General Abdul Gani Patail agreed to hold an inquest into Ahmad Sarbani's death. The inquest was held from 4 to 15 July 2011 at the magistrate's court in Kuala Lumpur and continued on 2 August.\n\nSarbani's wife, Maziah, told the court that her husband was \"very calm, patient and rational\" and would \"never\" have committed suicide. \n\nSchenker Logistics senior executive Wan Zainal Abidin Wan Zaki denied that Sarbani ever took bribes from his company. Zainal Abidin said Sarbani called him at 8:55pm on 4 April to tell him that his name was mentioned by Sarbani when questioned by the MACC. He also told the court he felt Sarbani was being pressured. Zainal Abidin last spoke to Sarbani at 9:55pm on 5 April to ask how he was.\n\nCustoms officer Abdul Rahim Abdul Kadir, who among those arrested in the MACC crackdown on tax evasion and money laundering, told the court that he was beaten and forced to confess to accepting bribes by the MACC. He said he lodged a police report on the incident then retracted it out of fear. Another Customs officer, Mohd Khairul Hisyam Mohd Gazali, said Sarbani told him on 2 April that he was pressured by the MACC to confess that he had accepted bribes but refused to give in.\n\nThree of Sarbani's colleagues testified that Sarbani was calm and patient man with \"high integrity.\"\n\nInvestigating officer Abdul Ghani Ali testified that he was under orders from KL MACC investigation unit head Mohd Fauzi Husin not to allow Sarbani to change his statement on 6 April. He said he ordered Sarbani to wait in the MACC office before Sarbani was found dead. Ghani also said: \"Throughout my career, I think no one has confessed like this before. I’ve never met a suspect who confessed.\"\n\nAssistant superintendent Mohd Rosly Mohd Saup testified that Sarbani denied accepting bribes from a Top Mark officer on 2 April.\n\nAssistant superintendent Sheikh Niza Khairy Sheikh Mohamad said Sarbani confessed to him on 4 April to receiving \"goodwill payments\" and that Sarbani went to the MACC office two days later to change his statement.\n\nDSP Sharul Othman Mansor from the Bukit Aman Forensic Division said Sarbani fell 10 m to his death.\n\nForensic investigator DSP Sharul Othman Mansor told the court that Sarbani's death was neither suicide nor murder. He instead claimed that Sarbani tried to jump over the roof of the badminton court, but missed and fell to his death. Sharul added that there were no signs of a struggle and that an optical illusion made the roof appear near to the corner of the window.\n\nForensic pathologist Faridah Mohd Noor, who performed the autopsy, said the death was \"accidental\" based on \"the injuries and circumstantial evidence.\"\n\nOn 26 September 2011, the coroner's court ruled Sarbani's death an accident. Coroner Aizatul Akmal Maharani said the fear of being arrested must have preyed heavily on Ahmad Sarbani’s mind so as to make him consider the window exit. Aizatul also remarked that the MACC officer tasked to look after Sarbani on 6 April had been \"negligent.\"\n\nProminent blogger Raja Petra Kamaruddin alleged on his \"Malaysia Today\" blog that Sarbani fell accidentally from the third-floor pantry window of the MACC building after being forced onto the ledge by a senior MACC officer. He claimed the MACC then went through great lengths, including \"concoct[ing] the most plausible story\" and wiping CCTV footage, to cover up the incident. Raja Petra also posted what appeared to be Sarbani's cautioned statement denying that he had ever received \"additional profit\" as a Customs officer.\n\nSarbani's family lawyer Awtar Singh said Raja Petra's allegations were \"plausible [\"ada asasnya\"].\"\n\nThe MACC's lawyer called the allegations \"nonsense.\"\n"}
{"id": "32971533", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32971533", "title": "Death of Ali Jawad al-Sheikh", "text": "Death of Ali Jawad al-Sheikh\n\nAli Jawad al-Sheikh () was a 14-year-old Bahraini who died in the hospital on 31 August 2011 after reportedly being hit in the head by a tear gas canister shot by Bahraini security forces during the Bahraini uprising. The Bahraini government denied security force involvement in his death and offered a reward for information on the incident. Activists, however, began a series of large protests after his funeral.\n\nAs part of a string of protests that occurred across the Arab World following the self-immolation and eventual death of Mohammed Bouazizi in Tunisia, the mostly Shia population of Bahrain took to the streets demanding greater freedoms. The move was seen as potentially destabilising to the Sunni-led regime of Bahrain, following which a brutal government crackdown led to widespread suppressions of the Shia people across many sectors, especially the medical field after the invasion of Bahrain by Gulf Cooperation Council soldiers led by Saudi Arabia. The Bahraini government also hired Pakistani mercenaries to maintain security against the protesters, however, lesser intermittent protests continued.\n\nA number of protesters, including Isa Hassan, Ali's uncle, took part in a demonstration in Sitra, Bahrain on 31 August just after morning prayers. They stated that they were \"confronted by the police, who fired tear gas at them from roughly 20 feet away\" and causing Ali Jawad al-Sheikh's death. In an interview with the \"Associated Press\", Isa explained that \"they are supposed to lob the canisters of gas, not shoot them at people. Police used it as a weapon.\"\n\nAfter his death, Ali's body was removed from the hospital and moved to the morgue, where the Interior ministry conducted an autopsy and compiled a forensic report based on the results. Investigators from the Bahrain Independent Commission of Inquiry were present during the autopsy, and compiled their own forensic report. In the afternoon, Osama al-Asfoor, the head of public prosecution, stated that the autopsy had shown that \"Ali had died of injuries to the back of his neck\" and that \"the boy had injuries under his chin and bruises on his face, hand, knees and pelvic area.\" However, he also added that a \"blood examination showed no effects of tear gas exposure.\" The Interior ministry's forensic report concluded that Ali's injuries were inconsistent with an impact from a tear gas canister, as the markings on his neck were too large. The Commission's forensic report concluded that Ali's injuries were consistent with an impact from an unexploded tear gas canister fired at short range.\n\nPhotographs of Ali directly after being injured were released by the Bahrain Youth Society for Human Rights. Mohammed al-Maskati, the leader of the Society, said that, \"The picture is affecting people.\" A videotape had also been made of Ali's family around his body in the hospital. Nabeel Rajab, the president of the Bahrain Centre for Human Rights, explained that the video was \"a gift to the people\". The father of Ali, Jawad al-Sheikh, asked in an interview with CNN for \"human rights groups to take steps against Bahrain's leaders, saying, 'I lost my child. ... He does not deserve this destiny.'\"\n\nThe government acknowledged Ali's death, but stated in a report from the state-run news agency that \"no reported police action against lawbreakers in Sitra\" had occurred the morning of that day and that the security forces had last been involved in \"dispersing a small group of around 10 people at 1:15 a.m.\" that day. The Ministry of the Interior then also set out a \"reward of more than $26,000 for information about those responsible for his death.\"\n\nActivists who had taken part in the uprising stated that police had surrounded the hospital where Ali had died, effectively preventing any gatherings of people in the area. The activists also stated their intention to have a protest on 1 September 2011, after attending Ali's funeral earlier that day. Clashes with police, however, began on 31 August and continued into the morning of September 1.\n\nThe funeral procession was held early on 1 September, with photographs of Ali both before he died and of his dead body covering the coffin. It had already been delayed for some hours, as Ali's father was unwilling to sign the death certificate for release of his son's body, since the cause of death listed was stated to be \"unknown\". It is uncertain if the certificate was ever signed or if the body was just released.\n\nActivists stated that thousands of people attended his funeral. Afterwards, the mourners began marching in the streets of Sitra carrying pictures of Ali and chanting 'Down, down, Hamad!'\". No security personnel were present at the protest and the protesters had dispersed by the afternoon. However, extensive protests were held in the national capital of Manama that night as the protesters tried to take back control of the Pearl Roundabout, which was the site of protests earlier in the year until a government crackdown and the destruction of the monument. Government forces used tear gas and blocked roads with buses to stop the protests.\n\nSheik Isa Qassim, a senior Shiite cleric, has blamed security forces for the death of Ali Jawad, saying, \"the killing of a 14-year-old boy by security forces during an anti-government demonstration Wednesday shows that the island nation’s Sunni rulers are not listening to people’s demands for greater rights.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "54069375", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54069375", "title": "Diploidization", "text": "Diploidization\n\nDiploidization is the process of converting a polyploid genome back into a diploid one. Polyploidy is a product of whole genome duplication (WGD) and is followed by diploidization as a result of genome shock. The plant kingdom has undergone multiple events of polyploidization followed by diploidization in both ancient and recent lineages. It has also been hypothesized that vertebrate genomes have gone through two rounds of paleopolyploidy. The mechanisms of diploidization are poorly understood but patterns of chromosomal loss and evolution of novel genes are observed in the process.\n\nUpon the formation of new polyploids, large sections of DNA are rapidly lost from one genome. The loss of DNA effectively achieves two purposes. First, the eliminated copy restores the normal gene dosage in the diploid organism. Second, the changes in chromosomal genetic structure increase the divergence of the homoeologous chromosomes (similar chromosomes from inter-species hybrid) and promotes homologous chromosome pairing. Both are important in terms of adjusting to the induced genome shock.\n\nThere have been rare events in which genes that ensure proper chromosome pairing have evolved shortly after polyploidization. One such gene, Ph1, exists in hexaploid wheat. These genes keep the two sets of genomes separately by either spatially separating them or giving them a unique chromatin identity to facilitate recognition from its homologous pair. This prevents the need of rapid gene loss to speed up homeologous chromosome diversification.\n\n\nOnce a polyploid is made, either synthetically or naturally, the genome goes through a period of \"genome shock\". Genome shock can be defined as a stage in which the genome experiences massive reorganization and structural changes to deal with the external stress (X-ray damage, chromosome duplication, etc.) imposed upon the genome. Such changes are termed revolutionary changes and occur early in the process of diploidization. Revolutionary changes ensure that the organism has a stable genome that can be passed to its progeny.\n\nAt the end of this process, certain duplicated genes may be preserved thus allowing evolution to shape them into novel functions. This is commonly termed as neofunctionalization. The mechanism of retaining duplicated genes is poorly understood. It has been hypothesized that dosage balance may play a key role in shaping the evolutionary fates of duplicated genes. Evolutionary changes refer to the long process of converting duplicated genes into diverse, functional gene derivatives.\n\nThere are many ways in which a polyploid organism can convert back to a diploid status. This is usually achieved by elimination of duplicated genes. The main goals of diploidization are: (1) To ensure proper gene dosage; and (2) to maintain stable cellular division processes. It should be noted that this process does not need to occur rapidly for all chromosomes in one or few steps. In recent polyploid events, segments of the genome may still remain in a tetraploid status. In other words, diploidization is a long ongoing process that is shaped by both intrinsic and evolutionary drives.\n\nNormally, homologous chromosomes pair up in bivalents during meiosis and separate into different daughter cells. However, when multiple copies of similar chromosomes are present in the nucleus, homeologous chromosomes can also pair with homologous chromosomes resulting in the formation of trivalents or multivalents. The formation of multivalents results in unequal division of the chromosomes and lead to daughter cells lacking one or few chromosomes.\n\nWhen homeologous chromosomes pair up though bivalents or multivalents, illegitimate genetic crossovers may occur. Since the chromosomes may differ in genetic structure and content, segments of the chromosome may be shuffled around resulting in massive gene loss. Additionally, illegitimate recombinations may also result in dicentric chromosomes lead to chromosome breakage during anaphase. This further contributes to gene loss on duplicated chromosomes.\n\nThe duplicated copies of a gene are commonly non-essential to the plant’s ability to maintain normal growth and development. Therefore, one copy is generally free to mutate/be lost from the genome. This contributes to gene loss through the massive chromosome reorganization events during genome shock.\n\nAs mentioned earlier, duplicated genes are under relaxed selective pressure. Thus it may also be subject to neofunctionalization, the process in which a duplicated gene obtains a novel function.\n\n"}
{"id": "15632671", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15632671", "title": "Domestic sheep predation", "text": "Domestic sheep predation\n\nOther than parasites and disease, predation is a threat to sheep health and thereby the profitability of sheep raising. Sheep have very little ability to defend themselves, even when compared with other prey species kept as livestock. Even if sheep are not directly bitten or survive an attack, they may die from panic or from injuries sustained. However, the impact of predation varies dramatically with region. In Africa, Australia, the Americas, and parts of Europe and Asia predators can be a serious problem. In contrast, some nations are virtually devoid of sheep predators. Many islands that are known for extensive sheep husbandry are suitable largely because of their predator-free status. Worldwide, canids—including the domestic dog—are responsible for the majority of sheep deaths. Other animals that prey on sheep include: felines, pandas, bears, birds of prey, bats, feral hogs, and hyenas. Sheep deaths have even been attributed to cryptids such as the Chupacabra, big cats in Britain, and the Drekavac.\n\nSheep flight behavior is cited in one major study in California as the major stimulus responsible for eliciting predatory behavior in coyotes. Even coyotes that had not previously been exposed to sheep demonstrated predatory behavior when exposed to them for the first time. Of particular interest was that coyotes with no previous prey-killing experience readily attacked and killed sheep when given the chance. The coyotes were likely to attack sheep that exhibited flight behavior even when these coyotes were not hungry. The same study also determined that dominant coyotes were more likely to attack sheep.\n\nAccording to the National Agricultural Statistics Service, 224,200 sheep were killed in the U.S. by predators in 2004, comprising approximately 37% of all bovine deaths for that year. The sheep lost in that year represented a sum total of 18.3 million dollars for sheep producers. Coyotes were responsible for 60.5% of all deaths, with the next largest being domestic dogs at 13.3%. Other North American predators of sheep included cougars (5.7%), bobcats (4.9%), eagles (2.8%), bears (3.8%), and foxes (1.9%). Wolves, ravens, vultures, and other animals together made up the remaining 7.1% of deaths. As all NASS statistics on sheep only take into account sheep after docking, the American Sheep Industry Association estimates that an additional 50-60,000 lambs were killed (before docking) that were not a part of the count. The number of sheep lost to predators may also be higher when considering that reports are generally only made when there is a reasonable expectation that a producer will be financially reimbursed for the loss.\n\nIn South America, the only widespread potential predators of sheep are cougars and jaguars, both of which are known to prey on livestock regularly. South American canids such as the Maned wolf and foxes of the genus \"Pseudalopex\" are also blamed for sheep deaths, but no evidence for a statistically significant amount of predation by \"most\" of these species has ever been presented. However, the culpeo is a threat to sheep, and is responsible for 60% of the predator losses in Patagonia.\n\nThough large, the South African sheep industry is significantly hindered by the innumerable predators present in the country. Other African nations that rely on sheep face a similar problem.\n\nBlack-backed jackals are the most significant sheep predators of southern and eastern Africa. Jackal predation typically peaks during droughts when wild food is scarce and the sheep are weakened. Merino sheep tend to be the most vulnerable, due to their habit of scattering upon attack, unlike fat-tailed sheep which bunch together for defence. In Transvaal between 1965 and 1971, a study on the stomach contents of over 400 jackals showed that sheep constituted 6% of the diet of jackals living in game reserves, and 27% for those living near farming districts. A similar study in Natal revealed that sheep constituted 35% of the resident jackal's diet.\n\n The main Australian predator of sheep is the dingo, which is a large-enough danger to sheep to precipitate the construction of the world's largest fence: the Dingo Fence. Red foxes, also, may prey on 10-30% of lambs, costing Australians sheep breeders more than A$100 million annually. \nAnnual baiting programs are conducted to reduce the number of dingoes and foxes. Uncontrolled domestic dogs also regularly menace and kill sheep. Occasionally wedge-tailed eagles will kill young sheep up to and including hogget size sheep. In contrast, New Zealand has no remaining large carnivores. The only wild animal known to attack sheep in New Zealand is the rare, unusual kea parrot endemic to the country's South Island. Also, feral dogs have been a problem.\n\nPrior to their extinction in Tasmania the thylacine (\"Thylacinus cynocephalus\"), also called the Tasmanian tiger, was also a major predator of sheep.\n\nBrown bears are thought to have become extinct in the British Isles in the year 500, while the last wolves were wiped out in 1786. Today the only wild animals remaining as a tangible threat to lambs in the British Isles are the red fox, badger, and predatory birds. Domestic dogs are also a common cause of predation of lambs and sheep (they can also sometimes die of shock after any attempted predation or attack). If the neck and head of a lamb are still attached, and some or all of the organs consumed via biting a hole into the lower abdomen, but not much else, this is often a sign of badger predation. Often only the lamb's stomach is ravaged - badgers like to drink the milk inside. If the badger is not at all hungry, it may merely play with the carcass - biting the ears, in particular. If the head's bitten off the carcass, it is usually a fox. Dog damage to a lamb is more indiscriminate/variable, and the carcass' condition does not follow any fixed form. Badgers will sometimes bite adult sheep without killing them - this is sometimes observed when a ewe is defending her lamb from the badger. This almost always leads to infection around the bite - death will follow if costly treatment is not administered. Badger predation varies regionally - in many areas it is commonplace, with the culprit sometimes caught in the act, whereas in some other sheep-farming areas with badgers, attacks are rare/not definitely identified. Crows such as the hooded crow are known to take small lambs, often first disabling them by pecking out their eyes; if a sheep has fallen over during parturition or bad weather and cannot get up, again crows will first attack their eyes. Larger predatory birds such as golden eagles and large owls pose a threat to sheep in the north of Britain, where their ranges remain stable.\n\nIn Greece, between April 1989 and June 1991, 21,000 sheep and goats were killed by wolves. In 1998 it was 5,894 sheep and goats.\n\nIn southern Bulgaria, golden jackals were recorded to have attacked 1,053 sheep between 1982-87.\n\nA study on livestock predation taken in Tibet showed that the wolf was the most prominent predator, accounting for 60% of the total livestock losses, followed by the snow leopard (38%) and Eurasian lynx (2%). Sheep were the second most targeted victims after goats, amounting to over 30% of losses.\n\nSheep producers have used a wide variety of measures to try to combat predation throughout history. Pre-modern shepherds had only the most basic of tools: their own presence, livestock guardian dogs, and protective structures such as barns and fencing. Fencing (both regular and electric), penning sheep at night and lambing indoors all continue to be widely–used methods of protection today. Whereas sheepdogs herd sheep, guardian dogs are trained to integrate into flocks and protect them from predators. The ability of these dogs to do so is a transference of the canine pack social structure on to a flock. Following their invention, the focus in dealing with predators shifted to the nearly exclusive use of guns, traps, and poisons to kill predators both defensively and preemptively. The population of predator species plummeted worldwide, pushing some to extinction (such as the thylacine) or significantly reducing their original ranges. With the appearance of the environmental and conservation movements, and subsequent state, provincial, national and international legislation, simply exterminating predator species failed to be a legally viable option for protecting flocks. However, many countries maintain government agencies—such as the Wildlife Services program, a wing of the USDA's Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service —to shoot, poison and trap predators that threaten sheep. Wildlife conservation organizations charge that this killing is both indiscriminate and ineffective at protecting sheep.\n\nThe 1970s saw an ensuing resurgence in the use of livestock guardian dogs and the development of new methods of predator control, many of them non–lethal. Donkeys and guard llamas or alpacas have been used since the 1980s in sheep operations, using the same basic principle as livestock guardian dogs. Interspecific pasturing, usually with larger livestock such as cattle or horses, make also help to deter predators, even if such species do not actively guard sheep. In addition to animal guardians, contemporary sheep operations may use non–lethal predator deterrents such as motion–activated lights and noisy alarms. While these devices have been shown to be successful, predators can become habituated to them.\n\n"}
{"id": "23278022", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23278022", "title": "Dysthanasia (animal)", "text": "Dysthanasia (animal)\n\nAnimal dysthanasia (from the Greek, meaning “difficult death”: dys (bad; difficult) + thanatos (death)) refers to the practice of prolonging the life of animals that are seriously or even terminally ill and that are potentially experiencing suffering. Animal dysthanasia is a recent concept, emerging from changes in the social perception of animals and from advances in veterinary care.\n\nAnimal dysthanasia is particularly relevant in the context of small animal practice. For centuries, domestic animals in Western societies used to be mainly farm animals. With the industrialization process, humans become increasingly concentrated in urban areas, having preferential contact with companion animals, namely cats and dogs. While farm animals are widely seen as property, companion animals are perceived as family members with whom humans keep close bonds and develop strong emotional relationships.\n\nAt the same time, scientific advances in the field of veterinary medicine enable practitioners to reach accurate diagnoses faster and more reliably than before, allowing life-threatening illnesses to be identified in the early stages of their development. In addition, more advanced options of treatment are currently available which may sometimes be used to prolong the lives of animals as much as possible regardless of their quality.\n\nThe Companion Animal Euthanasia Training Academy (CAETA) defines dysthanasia differently. To align more closely with the current definition of euthanasia, the act of humanely terminating life, CAETA views dysthanasia as the opposite of euthanasia; an actual bad death event wherein the euthanasia went poorly. Any lack of care or suffering leading up to death is considered a lack of veterinary hospice support during the end of life. \nDecision upon animal euthanasia often takes into account the relief of pain and suffering. Depending on how one defines the term, Animal dysthanasia occurs because there is no agreement upon the acceptable and recognizable endpoints of the lives of companion animals. This is due to several reasons. The keeper (guardian; owner) may wish to extend the animal’s life because he rejects euthanasia as an acceptable solution. On the other hand, the veterinarian may have a scientific interest on studying the progress of a specific illness or even a financial interest in keeping the patient alive. If one defines dysthanasia as an actual bad death event, causes include use of improper euthanasia techniques or failure to render an animal free of pain or distress. Proper training in euthanasia procedures is ideal to reduce dysthanasia and subsequent suffering. The keeper and the veterinarian may also want to make use of all possible treatment resources before making the decision of euthanasia. Genuine belief on the animal’s recovery and emotional attachment can also interfere on the decision-making process of euthanasia. Situations like these can be especially problematic in some veterinary specialities like small animal oncology where the course of the disease may be difficult to predict and the treatments themselves can cause severe distress.\n\n"}
{"id": "2393864", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2393864", "title": "Edward Aloysius Kenney", "text": "Edward Aloysius Kenney\n\nEdward Aloysius Kenney (August 11, 1884 – January 27, 1938) was a member of the United States House of Representatives from New Jersey.\n\nKenney was born on August 11, 1884 in Clinton, Massachusetts and attended the public schools. He graduated from Clinton High School in 1902. He then graduated from Williams College in 1906, and from the law department of New York University in New York City in 1908. He was admitted to the New York State Bar Association in 1908 and commenced practice in New York City. He moved to Cliffside Park, New Jersey in 1916 and continued the practice of law.\n\nDuring the First World War he served as a member of the legal advisory draft board of New Jersey in 1917. He was judge of recorders court in Cliffside Park, New Jersey, from 1919-1923. He was an unsuccessful candidate for Mayor of Cliffside Park, New Jersey as an Independent in 1921, as a Republican in 1923, and as a Democrat in 1927.\n\nHe became chairman of the Cliffside Park Housing Commission in 1922 and 1923 and was a member of the Republican county committee in 1925 and 1926.\n\nKenney was elected as a Democrat to the Seventy-third, Seventy-fourth, and Seventy-fifth Congresses and served from March 4, 1933, until his death in Washington, D.C. due to an accidental fall from a window on January 27, 1938.\n\nHe is buried in St. John’s Cemetery, Clinton, Massachusetts.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43485837", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43485837", "title": "Eloi Baribeau", "text": "Eloi Baribeau\n\nEloi Baribeau (December 1, 1906 – July 28, 1957) was a business owner and politician in Quebec. He served as mayor of Gatineau, Quebec from 1956 to 1957.\n\nThe son of former Gatineau mayor Théodore Baribeau and Lucia Lacroix, he was born in Lac-Sainte-Marie, Quebec and was educated at Bourget College in Rigaud. He moved to Gatineau Mills, later part of Gatineau, with his parents in 1928 and afterwards opened a service station there. In 1940, Baribeau married Lucienne Charron. He served nine years on Gatineau council before becoming mayor in 1956. Baribeau died in office when he drowned after falling out of a boat in Whitefish Lake near Gracefield.\n"}
{"id": "261899", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=261899", "title": "Entheogen", "text": "Entheogen\n\nAn entheogen is a class of psychoactive substances that induce any type of spiritual experience aimed at development. The term entheogen is often chosen to contrast recreational use of the same drugs.\n\nThe religious, shamanic, or spiritual significance of entheogens is well established in anthropological and modern contexts; entheogens have traditionally been used to supplement many diverse practices geared towards achieving transcendence, including white and black magic, sensory deprivation, divinatory, meditation, yoga, prayer, trance, rituals, chanting, hymns like peyote songs, and drumming. In the 1960s the hippie movement escalated its use to psychedelic art, binaural beats, sensory deprivation tanks, music, and rave parties.\n\nThe neologism \"entheogen\" was coined in 1979 by a group of ethnobotanists and scholars of mythology (Carl A. P. Ruck, Jeremy Bigwood, Danny Staples, Richard Evans Schultes, Jonathan Ott and R. Gordon Wasson). The term is derived from two words of Ancient Greek, ἔνθεος (\"éntheos\") and γενέσθαι (\"genésthai\"). The adjective \"entheos\" translates to English as \"full of the god, inspired, possessed\", and is the root of the English word \"enthusiasm.\" The Greeks used it as a term of praise for poets and other artists. \"Genesthai\" means \"to come into being.\" Thus, an entheogen is a drug that causes one to become inspired or to experience feelings of inspiration, often in a religious or \"spiritual\" manner.\n\nEntheogen was coined as a replacement for the terms \"hallucinogen\" and \"psychedelic\". \"Hallucinogen\" was popularized by Aldous Huxley's experiences with mescaline, which were published as \"The Doors of Perception\" in 1954. \"Psychedelic\", in contrast, is a Greek neologism for \"mind manifest\", and was coined by psychiatrist Humphry Osmond; Huxley was a volunteer in experiments Osmond was conducting on mescaline.\n\nRuck et al. argued that the term \"hallucinogen\" was inappropriate owing to its etymological relationship to words relating to delirium and insanity. The term \"psychedelic\" was also seen as problematic, owing to the similarity in sound to words pertaining to psychosis and also due to the fact that it had become irreversibly associated with various connotations of 1960s pop culture. In modern usage \"entheogen\" may be used synonymously with these terms, or it may be chosen to contrast with recreational use of the same drugs. The meanings of the term \"entheogen\" were formally defined by Ruck et al.:\n\nEntheogens have been used by indigenous peoples for thousands of years. Some countries have legislation that allows for traditional entheogen use. However, in the mid-20th century, after the discovery of LSD, and the intervention of psychedelic therapy, the term \"entheogen\", invented in 1979, later became an umbrella term used to include artificial drugs, alternative medical treatment, and spiritual practices, whether or not in a formal religious or traditional structure.\n\nR. Gordon Wasson and Giorgio Samorini have proposed several examples of the cultural use of entheogens that are found in the archaeological record. Hemp seeds discovered by archaeologists at Pazyryk suggest early ceremonial practices by the Scythians occurred during the 5th to 2nd century BC, confirming previous historical reports by Herodotus.\n\nThere now exist many synthetic drugs with similar psychoactive properties, many derived from the aforementioned plants. Many pure active compounds with psychoactive properties have been isolated from these respective organisms and chemically synthesized, including mescaline, psilocybin, DMT, salvinorin A, ibogaine, ergine, and muscimol.\n\nSemi-synthetic (e.g., LSD) and synthetic drugs (e.g., DPT and 2C-B used by the Sangoma) have also been developed. Alexander Shulgin developed hundreds of entheogens in PiHKAL and TiHKAL. Most of the drugs in PiHKAL are synthetic.\n\nEntheogens used by movements includes biotas like peyote (Native American Church), extracts like Ayahuasca (Santo Daime, União do Vegetal), the semi-synthetic drug LSD (Neo-American Church), and synthetic drugs like DPT (Temple of the True Inner Light) and 2C-B (Sangoma).\n\nBoth Santo Daime and União do Vegetal now have members and churches throughout the world.\n\nPsychedelic therapy refers to therapeutic practices involving the use of psychedelic drugs, particularly serotonergic psychedelics such as LSD, psilocybin, DMT, mescaline, and 2C-i, primarily to assist psychotherapy.\n\nMAPS has pursued a number of other research studies examining the effects of psychedelics administered to human subjects. These studies include, but are not limited to, studies of Ayahuasca, DMT, ibogaine, ketamine, LSA, LSD, MDE, MDMA, mescaline, peyote, psilocybin, \"Salvia divinorum\" and conducted multi-drug studies as well as cross cultural and meta-analysis research.\n\nAlcohol has sometimes been invested with religious significance.\n\n\nIn ancient Celtic religion, Sucellus or Sucellos was the god of agriculture, forests and alcoholic drinks of the Gauls.\n\n\nNinkasi is the ancient Sumerian tutelary goddess of beer.\n\n\nIn the ancient Greco-Roman religion, Dionysos (or Bacchus) was the god of the grape harvest, winemaking and wine, of ritual madness and ecstasy, of merry making and theatre. The original rite of Dionysus is associated with a wine cult and he may have been worshipped as early as c. 1500–1100 BC by Mycenean Greeks. The Dionysian Mysteries were a ritual of ancient Greece and Rome which used intoxicants and other trance-inducing techniques (like dance and music) to remove inhibitions and social constraints, liberating the individual to return to a natural state. In his Laws, Plato said that alcoholic drinking parties should be the basis of any educational system, because the alcohol allows relaxation of otherwise fixed views. \"The Symposium\" (literally, 'drinking together') was a dramatised account of a drinking party where the participants debated the nature of love.\n\nIn the Homeric Hymn to Demeter, a cup of wine is offered to Demeter which she refuses, instead insisting upon a potion of barley, water, and glechon, known as the ceremonial drink Kykeon, an essential part of the Mysteries. The potion has been hypothesized to be an ergot derivative from barley, similar to LSD.\n\n\nEgyptian pictographs clearly show wine as a finished product around 4000 BC. Osiris, the god who invented beer and brewing, was worshiped throughout the country. The ancient Egyptians made at least 24 types of wine and 17 types of beer. These beverages were used for pleasure, nutrition, rituals, medicine, and payments. They were also stored in the tombs of the deceased for use in the afterlife. The Osirian Mysteries paralleled the Dionysian, according to contemporary Greek and Egyptian observers. Spirit possession involved liberation from civilization's rules and constraints. It celebrated that which was outside civilized society and a return to the source of being, which would later assume mystical overtones. It also involved escape from the socialized personality and ego into an ecstatic, deified state or the primal herd (sometimes both).\n\n\nSome scholars have postulated that pagan religions actively promoted alcohol and drunkenness as a means of fostering fertility. Alcohol was believed to increase sexual desire and make it easier to approach another person for sex.\n\nChögyam Trungpa Rinpoche introduced \"Mindful Drinking\" to the West when he fled Tibet.\n\n\nMany Christian denominations use wine in the Eucharist or Communion and permit alcohol consumption in moderation. Other denominations use unfermented grape juice in Communion; they either voluntarily abstain from alcohol or prohibit it outright.\n\n\nJudaism uses wine on Shabbat and some holidays for Kiddush as well as more extensively in the Passover ceremony and other religious ceremonies. The secular consumption of alcohol is allowed. Some Jewish texts, e.g., the Talmud, encourage moderate drinking on holidays (such as Purim) in order to make the occasion more joyous.\n\nBahá'ís are forbidden to drink alcohol or to take drugs, unless prescribed by doctors. Accordingly, the sale and trafficking of such substances is also forbidden. Smoking is discouraged but not prohibited.\n\nEntheogens have been used by individuals to pursue spiritual goals such as divination, ego death, egolessness, faith healing, psychedelic therapy and spiritual formation.\n\"Don Alejandro (a Mazatecan shaman) taught me that the visionary experiences are much more important than the plants and drugs that produce them. He no longer needed to take the vision-inducing plants for his journeys.\"\nThere are also instances where people have been given entheogens without their knowledge or consent (e.g., tourists in Ayahuasca), as well as attempts to use such drugs in other contexts, such as cursing, psychochemical weaponry, psychological torture, brainwashing and mind control; CIA experiments with LSD were used in Project MKUltra, and controversial entheogens like alcohol are often mentioned in context of bread and circuses.\n\nIn some areas, there are purported malevolent sorcerers who masquerade as real shamans and who entice tourists to drink ayahuasca in their presence. Shamans believe one of the purposes for this is to steal one's energy and/or power, of which they believe every person has a limited stockpile.\n\nThe Native American Church (NAC) is also known as \"Peyotism\" and \"Peyote Religion\". Peyotism is a Native American religion characterized by mixed traditional as well as Protestant beliefs and by sacramental use of the entheogen peyote.\n\nThe Peyote Way Church of God believe that \"Peyote is a holy sacrament, when taken according to our sacramental procedure and combined with a holistic lifestyle\".\n\nSome religions forbid, discourage, or restrict the drinking of alcoholic beverages. These include Islam, Jainism, the Bahá'í Faith, The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church), the Seventh-day Adventist Church, the Church of Christ, Scientist, the United Pentecostal Church International, Theravada, most Mahayana schools of Buddhism, some Protestant denominations of Christianity, some sects of Taoism (Five Precepts and Ten Precepts), and Hinduism.\n\nThe Pali Canon, the scripture of Theravada Buddhism, depicts refraining from alcohol as essential to moral conduct because intoxication causes a loss of mindfulness. The fifth of the Five Precepts states, \"Surā-meraya-majja-pamādaṭṭhānā veramaṇī sikkhāpadaṃ samādiyāmi.\" In English: \"I undertake to refrain from meraya and majja (the two fermented drinks used in the place and time of writing) to heedless intoxication.\" Although the Fifth Precept only names a specific wine and cider, this has traditionally been interpreted to mean all alcoholic beverages. Technically, this prohibition does also not even include light to moderate drinking, only to the point of drunkenness. It also doesn't include other mind-altering drugs, but Buddhist tradition includes all intoxicants. The canon does not suggest that alcohol is evil but believes that the carelessness produced by intoxication creates bad karma. Therefore, any drug (beyond tea or mild coffee) that affects one's mindfulness be considered by some to be covered by this prohibition.\n\nMany Christian denominations disapprove of the use of most illicit drugs. The early history of the Church, however, was filled with a variety of drug use, recreational and otherwise.\n\nThe primary advocate of a religious use of cannabis plant in early Judaism was Sula Benet, also called Sara Benetowa, a Polish anthropologist, who claimed in 1967 that the plant \"kaneh bosm קְנֵה-בֹשֶׂם\" mentioned five times in the Hebrew Bible, and used in the holy anointing oil of the Book of Exodus, was in fact cannabis. The Ethiopian Zion Coptic Church confirmed it as a possible valid interpretation.\nThe lexicons of Hebrew and dictionaries of plants of the Bible such as by Michael Zohary (1985), Hans Arne Jensen (2004) and James A. Duke (2010) and others identify the plant in question as either \"Acorus calamus\" or \"Cymbopogon citratus\". Kaneh-bosm is listed as an incense in the Old Testament.\n\nRabbi Zalman Schachter-Shalomi (founder of Jewish Renewal) and Richard Alpert (later known as Ram Dass) were influential early Jewish explorers of the connections between hallucinogenics and spirituality, from the early 1960s onwards.\n\nIt is generally held by academics specializing in the archaeology and paleobotany of Ancient Israel, and those specializing in the lexicography of the Hebrew Bible that cannabis is not documented or mentioned in early Judaism. Against this some popular writers have argued that there is evidence for religious use of cannabis in the Hebrew Bible, although this hypothesis and some of the specific case studies (e.g., John Allegro in relation to Qumran, 1970) have been \"widely dismissed as erroneous, others continue\".\n\nAccording to \"The Living Torah\", cannabis may have been one of the ingredients of the holy anointing oil mentioned in various sacred Hebrew texts. The herb of interest is most commonly known as \"kaneh-bosm\" (Hebrew: קְנֵה-בֹשֶׂם). This is mentioned several times in the Old Testament as a bartering material, incense, and an ingredient in holy anointing oil used by the high priest of the temple. Although Chris Bennett's research in this area focuses on cannabis, he mentions evidence suggesting use of additional visionary plants such as henbane, as well.\n\nThe Septuagint translates \"kaneh-bosm\" as calamus, and this translation has been propagated unchanged to most later translations of the old testament. However, Polish anthropologist Sula Benet published etymological arguments that the Aramaic word for hemp can be read as \"kannabos\" and appears to be a cognate to the modern word 'cannabis', with the root \"kan\" meaning reed or hemp and \"bosm\" meaning fragrant. Both cannabis and calamus are fragrant, reedlike plants containing psychotropic compounds.\n\nIn his research, Professor Dan Merkur points to significant evidence of an awareness within the Jewish mystical tradition recognizing manna as an entheogen, thereby substantiating with rabbinic texts theories advanced by the superficial biblical interpretations of Terence McKenna, R. Gordon Wasson and other ethnomycologists.\n\nAlthough philologist John Marco Allegro has suggested that the self-revelation and healing abilities attributed to the figure of Jesus may have been associated with the effects of the plant medicines, this evidence is dependent on pre-Septuagint interpretation of Torah and Tenach. Allegro was the only non-Catholic appointed to the position of translating the Dead Sea scrolls. His extrapolations are often the object of scorn due to Allegro's non-mainstream theory of Jesus as a mythological personification of the essence of a \"psychoactive sacrament\". Furthermore, they conflict with the position of the Catholic Church with regard to transubstantiation and the teaching involving valid matter, form, and drug — that of bread and wine (bread does not contain psychoactive drugs, but wine contains ethanol). Allegro's book The Sacred Mushroom and the Cross relates the development of language to the development of myths, religions, and cultic practices in world cultures. Allegro believed he could prove, through etymology, that the roots of Christianity, as of many other religions, lay in fertility cults, and that cult practices, such as ingesting visionary plants (or \"psychedelics\") to perceive the mind of God, persisted into the early Christian era, and to some unspecified extent into the 13th century with reoccurrences in the 18th century and mid-20th century, as he interprets the Plaincourault chapel's fresco to be an accurate depiction of the ritual ingestion of \"Amanita muscaria\" as the Eucharist.\n\nThe historical picture portrayed by the Entheos journal is of fairly widespread use of visionary plants in early Christianity and the surrounding culture, with a gradual reduction of use of entheogens in Christianity. R. Gordon Wasson's book \"Soma\" prints a letter from art historian Erwin Panofsky asserting that art scholars are aware of many \"mushroom trees\" in Christian art.\n\nThe question of the extent of visionary plant use throughout the history of Christian practice has barely been considered yet by academic or independent scholars. The question of whether visionary plants were used in pre-Theodosius Christianity is distinct from evidence that indicates the extent to which visionary plants were utilized or forgotten in later Christianity, including heretical or quasi- Christian groups, and the question of other groups such as elites or laity within orthodox Catholic practice.\n\nDaniel Merkur at the University of Toronto contends that a minority of Christian hermits and mystics could possibly have used entheogens, in conjunction with fasting, meditation, and prayer.\n\nAccording to R.C. Parker, \"The use of entheogens in the Vajrayana tradition has been documented by such scholars as Ronald M Davidson, William George Stablein, Bulcsu Siklos, David B. Gray, Benoytosh Bhattacharyya, Shashibhusan Das Gupta, Francesca Fremantle, Shinichi Tsuda, David Gordon White, Rene de Nebesky-Wojkowitz, James Francis Hartzell, Edward Todd Fenner, Ian Baker, Dr. Pasang Yonten Arya and numerous others.\" These scholars have established entheogens were used in Vajrayana (in a limited context) as well as in Tantric Saivite traditions. The major entheogens in the Vajrayana Anuttarayoga Tantra tradition are cannabis and \"Datura\" which were used in various pills, ointments, and elixirs. Several tantras within Vajrayana specifically mention these entheogens and their use, including the Laghusamvara-tantra (aka Cakrasaṃvara Tantra), Samputa-tantra, Samvarodaya-tantra, Mahakala-tantra, Guhyasamaja-tantra, Vajramahabhairava-tantra, and the Krsnayamari-tantra. In the Cakrasaṃvara Tantra, the use of entheogens is coupled with mediation practices such as the use of a mandala of the Heruka meditation deity (yidam) and visualization practices which identify the yidam's external body and mandala with one's own body and 'internal mandala'.\n\nIt has also been proposed by Scott Hajicek-Dobberstein that the \"Amanita muscaria\" mushroom was used by the Tantric Buddhist mahasiddha tradition of the 8th to 12th century.\n\nIn the West, some modern Buddhist teachers have written on the usefulness of psychedelics. The Buddhist magazine devoted their entire fall 1996 edition to this issue. Some teachers such as Jack Kornfield have acknowledged the possibility that psychedelics could complement Buddhist practice, bring healing and help people understand their connection with everything which could lead to compassion. Kornfield warns however that addiction can still be a hindrance. Other teachers such as Michelle McDonald-Smith expressed views which saw entheogens as not conductive to Buddhist practice (\"I don't see them developing anything\").\n\nEntheogens have been used in various ways, e.g., as part of established religious rituals, as aids for personal spiritual development (\"plant teachers\"), as recreational drugs, and for medical and therapeutic use. The use of entheogens in human cultures is nearly ubiquitous throughout recorded history.\n\nNaturally occurring entheogens such as psilocybin and DMT (in the preparation ayahuasca), were, for the most part, discovered and used by older cultures, as part of their spiritual and religious life, as plants and agents that were respected, or in some cases revered for generations and may be a tradition that predates all modern religions as a sort of proto-religious rite.\n\nOne of the most widely used entheogens is cannabis, entheogenic use of cannabis has been used in regions such as China, Europe, and India, and, in some cases, for thousands of years. It has also appeared as a part of religions and cultures such as the Rastafari movement, the Sadhus of Hinduism, the Scythians, Sufi Islam, and others.\n\nThe best-known entheogen-using culture of Africa is the Bwitists, who used a preparation of the root bark of \"Tabernanthe iboga\". Although the ancient Egyptians may have been using the sacred blue lily plant in some of their religious rituals or just symbolically, it has been suggested that Egyptian religion once revolved around the ritualistic ingestion of the far more psychoactive \"Psilocybe cubensis\" mushroom, and that the Egyptian White Crown, Triple Crown, and Atef Crown were evidently designed to represent pin-stages of this mushroom. There is also evidence for the use of psilocybin mushrooms in Ivory Coast. Numerous other plants used in shamanic ritual in Africa, such as \"Silene capensis\" sacred to the Xhosa, are yet to be investigated by western science. A recent revitalization has occurred in the study of southern African psychoactives and entheogens (Mitchell and Hudson 2004; Sobiecki 2002, 2008, 2012).\n\nThe artificial drug 2C-B is used as entheogen by the Sangoma, Nyanga, and Amagqirha people over their traditional plants; they refer to the chemical as \"Ubulawu Nomathotholo\", which roughly translates to \"\"Medicine of the Singing Ancestors\".\n\nEntheogens have played a pivotal role in the spiritual practices of most American cultures for millennia. The first American entheogen to be subject to scientific analysis was the peyote cactus (\"Lophophora williamsii\"). For his part, one of the founders of modern ethno-botany, the late-Richard Evans Schultes of Harvard University documented the ritual use of peyote cactus among the Kiowa, who live in what became Oklahoma. While it was used traditionally by many cultures of what is now Mexico, in the 19th century its use spread throughout North America, replacing the deadly toxic mescal bean (\"Calia secundiflora\") who are questioned to be an entheogen at all. Other well-known entheogens used by Mexican cultures include the alcoholic Aztec sacrament, pulque, ritual tobacco (known as 'picietl' to the Aztecs, and 'sikar' to the Maya (from where the word 'cigar' derives)), psilocybin mushrooms, morning glories (\"Ipomoea tricolor\" and \"Turbina corymbosa\"), and \"Salvia divinorum\".\n\nEntheogens also play an important role in contemporary religious movements such as the Rastafari movement and the Church of the Universe.\n\n\"Datura wrightii\" is sacred to some Native Americans and has been used in ceremonies and rites of passage by Chumash, Tongva, and others. Among the Chumash, when a boy was 8 years old, his mother would give him a preparation of \"momoy\" to drink. This supposed spiritual challenge should help the boy develop the spiritual wellbeing that is required to become a man. Not all of the boys undergoing this ritual survived. \"Momoy\" was also used to enhance spiritual wellbeing among adults . For instance, during a frightening situation, such as when seeing a coyote walk like a man, a leaf of \"momoy\" was sucked to help keep the soul in the body.\n\nThe indigenous peoples of Siberia (from whom the term \"shaman\" was borrowed) have used \"Amanita muscaria\" as an entheogen.\n\nIn Hinduism, \"Datura stramonium\" and cannabis have been used in religious ceremonies, although the religious use of datura is not very common, as the primary alkaloids are strong deliriants, which causes serious intoxication with unpredictable effects.\n\nAlso, the ancient drink Soma, mentioned often in the Vedas, appears to be consistent with the effects of an entheogen. In his 1967 book, Wasson argues that Soma was \"Amanita muscaria\". The active ingredient of Soma is presumed by some to be ephedrine, an alkaloid with stimulant properties derived from the soma plant, identified as \"Ephedra pachyclada\". However, there are also arguments to suggest that Soma could have also been Syrian rue, cannabis, \"Atropa belladonna\", or some combination of any of the above plants.\n\nFermented honey, known in Northern Europe as mead, was an early entheogen in Aegean civilization, predating the introduction of wine, which was the more familiar entheogen of the reborn Dionysus and the maenads. Its religious uses in the Aegean world are bound up with the mythology of the bee.\n\nDacians were known to use cannabis in their religious and important life ceremonies, proven by discoveries of large clay pots with burnt cannabis seeds in ancient tombs and religious shrines. Also, local oral folklore and myths tell of ancient priests that dreamed with gods and walked in the smoke. Their names, as transmitted by Herodotus, were \"kap-no-batai\"\" which in Dacian was supposed to mean \"the ones that walk in the clouds\".\n\nThe growth of Roman Christianity also saw the end of the two-thousand-year-old tradition of the Eleusinian Mysteries, the initiation ceremony for the cult of Demeter and Persephone involving the use of a drug known as kykeon. The term 'ambrosia' is used in Greek mythology in a way that is remarkably similar to the \"Soma\" of the Hindus as well.\n\nA theory that natural occurring gases like ethylene used by inhalation may have played a role in divinatory ceremonies at Delphi in Classical Greece received popular press attention in the early 2000s, yet has not been conclusively proven.\n\nMushroom consumption is part of the culture of Europeans in general, with particular importance to Slavic and Baltic peoples. Some academics consider that using psilocybin- and or muscimol-containing mushrooms was an integral part of the ancient culture of the Rus' people.\n\nIt has been suggested that the ritual use of small amounts of Syrian rue is an artifact of its ancient use in higher doses as an entheogen (possibly in conjunction with DMT containing acacia).\n\nPhilologist John Marco Allegro has argued in his book \"The Sacred Mushroom and the Cross\" that early Jewish and Christian cultic practice was based on the use of \"Amanita muscaria\", which was later forgotten by its adherents. Allegro's hypothesis is that Amanita use was sacred knowledge kept only by high figures to hide the true beginnings of the Christian cult, seems supported by his own view that the Plaincourault Chapel shows evidence of Christian amanita use in the 13th century.\n\nIn general, indigenous Australians are thought not to have used entheogens, although there is a strong barrier of secrecy surrounding Aboriginal shamanism, which has likely limited what has been told to outsiders. A plant that the Australian Aboriginals used to ingest is called \"Pitcheri\", which is said to have a similar effect to that of coca.\n\"Pitcheri\" was made from the bark of the shrub \"Duboisia myoporoides\". This plant is now grown commercially and is processed to manufacture an eye medication.\nThere are no known uses of entheogens by the Māori of New Zealand aside from a variant species of kava. Natives of Papua New Guinea are known to use several species of entheogenic mushrooms (\"Psilocybe\" spp, \"Boletus manicus\").\n\nKava or \"kava kava\" (\"Piper Methysticum\") has been cultivated for at least 3000 years by a number of Pacific island-dwelling peoples. Historically, most Polynesian, many Melanesian, and some Micronesian cultures have ingested the psychoactive pulverized root, typically taking it mixed with water. In these traditions, taking kava is believed to facilitate contact with the spirits of the dead, especially relatives and ancestors.\n\nStudies such as Timothy Leary's Marsh Chapel Experiment and Roland Griffiths' psilocybin studies at Johns Hopkins have documented reports of mystical/spiritual/religious experiences from participants who were administered psychoactive drugs in controlled trials. Ongoing research is limited due to widespread drug prohibition.\nNotable early testing of the entheogenic experience includes the Marsh Chapel Experiment, conducted by physician and theology doctoral candidate, Walter Pahnke, under the supervision of Timothy Leary and the Harvard Psilocybin Project. In this double-blind experiment, volunteer graduate school divinity students from the Boston area almost all claimed to have had profound religious experiences subsequent to the ingestion of pure psilocybin. In 2006, a more rigorously controlled experiment was conducted at Johns Hopkins University, and yielded similar results. To date there is little peer-reviewed research on this subject, due to ongoing drug prohibition and the difficulty of getting approval from institutional review boards.\n\nFurthermore, scientific studies on entheogens present some significant challenges to investigators, including philosophical questions relating to ontology, epistemology and objectivity.\n\nBetween 2011 and 2012, the Australian Federal Government was considering changes to the Australian Criminal Code that would classify any plants containing any amount of DMT as \"controlled plants\".\nDMT itself was already controlled under current laws. The proposed changes included other similar blanket bans for other substances, such as a ban on any and all plants containing Mescaline or Ephedrine. The proposal was not pursued after political embarrassment on realisation that this would make the official Floral Emblem of Australia, Acacia pycnantha (Golden Wattle), illegal. The Therapeutic Goods Administration and federal authority had considered a motion to ban the same, but this was withdrawn in May 2012 (as DMT may still hold potential entheogenic value to native and/or religious peoples).\n\nIn 1963 in \"Sherbert v. Verner\" the Supreme Court established the Sherbert Test, which consists of four criteria that are used to determine if an individual's right to religious free exercise has been violated by the government. The test is as follows:\n\nFor the individual, the court must determine\n\nIf these two elements are established, then the government must prove\n\nThis test was eventually all-but-eliminated in \"Employment Division v. Smith\" 494 U.S. 872 (1990) which held that a \"neutral law of general applicability\" was not subject to the test. Congress resurrected it for the purposes of federal law in the federal Religious Freedom Restoration Act (RFRA) of 1993.\n\nIn \"City of Boerne v. Flores\", 521 U.S. 507 (1997) RFRA was held to trespass on state sovereignty, and application of the RFRA was essentially limited to federal law enforcement. In \"Gonzales v. O Centro Espírita Beneficente União do Vegetal\", 546 U.S. 418 (2006), a case involving only federal law, RFRA was held to permit a church's use of a DMT-containing tea for religious ceremonies.\n\nSome states have enacted State Religious Freedom Restoration Acts intended to mirror the federal RFRA's protections.\n\nPeyote is listed by the United States DEA as a Schedule I controlled substance. However, practitioners of the Peyote Way Church of God, a Native American religion, perceive the regulations regarding the use of peyote as discriminating, leading to religious discrimination issues regarding about the U.S. policy towards drugs. As the result of \"Peyote Way Church of God, Inc. v. Thornburgh\" the American Indian Religious Freedom Act of 1978 was passed. This federal statute allow the \"Traditional Indian religious use of the peyote sacrament,\" exempting only use by Native American persons.\n\nAlthough entheogens are taboo and most of them are officially prohibited in Christian and Islamic societies, their ubiquity and prominence in the spiritual traditions of various other cultures is unquestioned. \"The spirit, for example, need not be chemical, as is the case with the ivy and the olive: and yet the god was felt to be within them; nor need its possession be considered something detrimental, like drugged, hallucinatory, or delusionary: but possibly instead an invitation to knowledge or whatever good the god's spirit had to offer.\"\n\nMost of the well-known modern examples, such as peyote, psilocybin mushrooms, and morning glories are from the native cultures of the Americas. However, it has also been suggested that entheogens played an important role in ancient Indo-European culture, for example by inclusion in the ritual preparations of the Soma, the \"pressed juice\" that is the subject of Book 9 of the Rig Veda. Soma was ritually prepared and drunk by priests and initiates and elicited a paean in the \"Rig Veda\" that embodies the nature of an entheogen:\n\nThe kykeon that preceded initiation into the Eleusinian Mysteries is another entheogen, which was investigated (before the word was coined) by Carl Kerényi, in \"Eleusis: Archetypal Image of Mother and Daughter.\" Other entheogens in the Ancient Near East and the Aegean include the opium poppy, datura, and the unidentified \"lotus\" (likely the sacred blue lily) eaten by the Lotus-Eaters in the \"Odyssey\" and \"Narcissus\".\n\nAccording to Ruck, Eyan, and Staples, the familiar shamanic entheogen that the Indo-Europeans brought knowledge of was \"Amanita muscaria\". It could not be cultivated; thus it had to be found, which suited it to a nomadic lifestyle. When they reached the world of the Caucasus and the Aegean, the Indo-Europeans encountered wine, the entheogen of Dionysus, who brought it with him from his birthplace in the mythical Nysa, when he returned to claim his Olympian birthright. The Indo-European proto-Greeks \"recognized it as the entheogen of Zeus, and their own traditions of shamanism, the Amanita and the 'pressed juice' of Soma — but better, since no longer unpredictable and wild, the way it was found among the Hyperboreans: as befit their own assimilation of agrarian modes of life, the entheogen was now cultivable.\" Robert Graves, in his foreword to \"The Greek Myths,\" hypothesises that the ambrosia of various pre-Hellenic tribes was \"Amanita muscaria\" (which, based on the morphological similarity of the words amanita, amrita and ambrosia, is entirely plausible) and perhaps psilocybin mushrooms of the genus \"Panaeolus\".\n\nAmanita was divine food, according to Ruck and Staples, not something to be indulged in or sampled lightly, not something to be profaned. It was the food of the gods, their ambrosia, and it mediated between the two realms. It is said that Tantalus's crime was inviting commoners to share his ambrosia.\n\nThe entheogen is believed to offer godlike powers in many traditional tales, including immortality. The failure of Gilgamesh in retrieving the plant of immortality from beneath the waters teaches that the blissful state cannot be taken by force or guile: When Gilgamesh lay on the bank, exhausted from his heroic effort, the serpent came and ate the plant.\n\nAnother attempt at subverting the natural order is told in a (according to some) strangely metamorphosed myth, in which natural roles have been reversed to suit the Hellenic world-view. The Alexandrian Apollodorus relates how Gaia (spelled \"Ge\" in the following passage), Mother Earth herself, has supported the Titans in their battle with the Olympian intruders. The Giants have been defeated:\n\nThe legends of the Assassins had much to do with the training and instruction of Nizari \"fida'is\", famed for their public missions during which they often gave their lives to eliminate adversaries.\n\nThe tales of the \"fida'is\"' training collected from anti-Ismaili historians and orientalists writers were confounded and compiled in Marco Polo's account, in which he described a \"secret garden of paradise\". After being drugged, the Ismaili devotees were said to be taken to a paradise-like garden filled with attractive young maidens and beautiful plants in which these \"fida'is\" would awaken. Here, they were told by an old man that they were witnessing their place in Paradise and that should they wish to return to this garden permanently, they must serve the Nizari cause. So went the tale of the \"Old Man in the Mountain\", assembled by Marco Polo and accepted by Joseph von Hammer-Purgstall (1774–1856), a prominent orientalist writer responsible for much of the spread of this legend. Until the 1930s, von Hammer's retelling of the Assassin legends served as the standard account of the Nizaris across Europe.\n\nMany works of literature have described entheogen use; some of those are:\n\n"}
{"id": "48324721", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48324721", "title": "Fratricidins", "text": "Fratricidins\n\nFratricidins are antibodies that employ receptor pleiotropism to transform tumor cells into natural killer cells that destroy other tumor cells. In 2015 the effect was demonstrated by Dr. Richard A. Lerner of The Scripps Research Institute on human acute myeloid leukemia (AML) cells.\n\nMost AML cells have the thrombopoietin (TPO) receptor. Fratricidins activate this receptor, turning as many as 80% first into dendritic cells and then into cells that resemble natural killer (NK) cells. NK cells are capable of rapidly attacking potentially dangerous pathogens and tumors even if they do not contain the biomarkers normally identified by other immune cells.\n\nThese induced NK cells possessed extending tendrils that had made their way through the outer membranes of nearby AML cells. The antibody-induced killer cells make large amounts of perforin, IFN-γ and granzyme B, in a different cascade from that caused by the \"normal\" antibody for this receptor.\n\nIn lab tests, a “modest” number of NK cells took out about 15 percent of the surrounding leukemic cell population in 24 hours. These cells attacked only related leukemia cells, but not unrelated breast cancer cells.\n\n"}
{"id": "85620", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=85620", "title": "Generation ship", "text": "Generation ship\n\nA generation ship, or generation starship, is a hypothetical type of interstellar ark starship that travels at sub-light speed.\n\nSince such a ship might take centuries to thousands of years to reach even nearby stars, the original occupants of a generation ship would grow old and die, leaving their descendants to continue traveling.\n\nThe concept of a generation starship is a good example of how science and fiction influence each other. Many space scientists and engineers who contributed to the concept of a generation starship were also science fiction writers. Perhaps the earliest description of a generation ship is in the 1929 essay \"The World, The Flesh, & The Devil\" by J. D. Bernal.\n\nRobert H. Goddard, the rocket pioneer, was the first to write about very long duration interstellar journeys in his \"The Last Migration\" (1918). In this he described the death of the Sun and the necessity of an \"interstellar ark\". The crew would face the centuries of travel by sleeping and would be awakened when they reached another star system.\n\nKonstantin E. Tsiolkovsky, father of astronautic theory, first described the need for multiple generations of passengers in his essay, \"The Future of Earth and Mankind\" (1928), a space colony equipped with engines that travels thousands of years which he called \"Noah's Ark\".\n\nBernal's essay was the first publication to reach the public and influence other writers. He wrote about the concept of human evolution and mankind's future in space through methods of living that we now describe as a generation starship, and which could be seen in the generic word \"globes\".\n\nThe Enzmann starship is categorised as \"slow boat\" because of the \"Astronomy Magazine\" title “Slow Boat to Centauri” (1977). Gregory Matloff's concept is called a \"colony ship\" and Alan Bond called his concept a \"world ship\".\n\nSuch a ship would have to be entirely self-sustaining, providing energy, food, air, and water for everyone on board. It must also have extraordinarily reliable systems that could be maintained by the ship's inhabitants over long periods of time. This would require testing whether thousands of humans could survive on their own before sending them beyond the reach of help. There are also the concerns of immune systems gradually atrophying over time in the ship's environment. Small artificial closed ecosystems, such as the Biosphere 2, have been built in an attempt to work out the engineering difficulties in such a system, with mixed results. \n\nGeneration ships would have to anticipate possible biological, social and morale problems, and would also need to deal with matters of self-worth and purpose for the various crews involved. As an example, a moral quandary exists regarding how intermediate generations, those destined to be born and die in transit without actually seeing tangible results of their efforts, might feel about their forced existence on such a ship.\n\nEstimates of the minimum reasonable population for a generation ship vary. Anthropologist John Moore has estimated that, even in the absence of cryonics or sperm banks, a population capacity of 160 people would allow normal family life (with the average individual having ten potential marriage partners) throughout a 200-year space journey, with little loss of genetic diversity; social engineering can reduce this estimate to 80 people. In 2013 anthropologist Cameron Smith reviewed existing literature and created a new computer model to estimate a minimum reasonable population in the tens of thousands. Smith's numbers were much larger than previous estimates such as Moore's, in part because Smith takes the risk of accidents and disease into consideration, and assumes at least one severe population catastrophe over the course of a 150-year journey.\n\nIn light of the multiple generations that it could take to reach even our nearest neighboring star systems such as Proxima Centauri, further issues on the viability of such interstellar arks include:\n\n\nGeneration ships travelling for long periods of time may see breakdowns in social structures. Changes in society (for example, mutiny) could occur over such periods and may prevent the ship from reaching its destination. This state was described by Algis Budrys in a 1966 book review:\n\nRobert A. Heinlein's \"Orphans of the Sky\" (the \"impeccable statement of this theme\", Budrys said) and Brian Aldiss's \"Non-Stop\" (U.S. title \"Starship\") discussed such societies.\n\nThe radiation environment of deep space is very different from that on the Earth's surface, or in low earth orbit, due to the much larger influx of high-energy galactic cosmic rays (GCRs). Like other ionizing radiation, high-energy cosmic rays can damage DNA, increase the risk of cancer, cataracts, neurological disorders, and non-cancerous mortality risks. One known practical solution to this problem is surrounding the crewed parts of the ship with a thick enough shielding such as a thick layer of maintained ice as proposed in \"The Songs of Distant Earth\", a science fiction novel by Arthur C. Clarke (note: in this book the ship's mammoth ice shield is only in the forward part of the ship, preventing micrometeors from damaging the ship during its interstellar journey).\n\nIf a generation ship is sent to a star system 20 light years away, and is expected to reach its destination in 200 years, a better ship may be later developed that can reach it in 50 years. Thus, the first generation ship may find a century-old human colony after its arrival at its destination.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50073184", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50073184", "title": "Generative adversarial network", "text": "Generative adversarial network\n\nGenerative adversarial networks (GANs) are a class of artificial intelligence algorithms used in unsupervised machine learning, implemented by a system of two neural networks contesting with each other in a zero-sum game framework. They were introduced by Ian Goodfellow \"et al.\" in 2014.\nThis technique can generate photographs that look at least superficially authentic to human observers, having many realistic characteristics (though in tests people can tell real from generated in many cases).\n\nOne network generates candidates (generative) and the other evaluates them (discriminative). Typically, the generative network learns to map from a latent space to a particular data distribution of interest, while the discriminative network discriminates between instances from the true data distribution and candidates produced by the generator. The generative network's training objective is to increase the error rate of the discriminative network (i.e., \"fool\" the discriminator network by producing novel synthesised instances that appear to have come from the true data distribution).\n\nIn practice, a known dataset serves as the initial training data for the discriminator. Training the discriminator involves presenting it with samples from the dataset, until it reaches some level of accuracy. Typically the generator is seeded with a randomized input that is sampled from a predefined latent space (e.g. a multivariate normal distribution). Thereafter, samples synthesized by the generator are evaluated by the discriminator. Backpropagation is applied in both networks so that the generator produces better images, while the discriminator becomes more skilled at flagging synthetic images. The generator is typically a deconvolutional neural network, and the discriminator is a convolutional neural network.\n\nThe idea to infer models in a competitive setting (model versus discriminator) was proposed by Li, Gauci and Gross in 2013. Their method is used for behavioral inference. It is termed Turing Learning, as the setting is akin to that of a Turing test. Turing Learning is a generalization of GANs. Models other than neural networks can be considered. Moreover, the discriminators are allowed to influence the processes from which the datasets are obtained, making them active interrogators as in the Turing test. The idea of adversarial training can also be found in earlier works, such as Schmidhuber in 1992.\n\nGANs have been used to produce samples of photorealistic images for the purposes of visualizing new interior/industrial design, shoes, bags and clothing items or items for computer games' scenes. These networks were reported to be used by Facebook. Recently, GANs have modeled patterns of motion in video. They have also been used to reconstruct 3D models of objects from images and to improve astronomical images. In 2017 a fully convolutional feedforward GAN was used for image enhancement using automated texture synthesis in combination with perceptual loss. The system focused on realistic textures rather than pixel-accuracy. The result was a higher image quality at high magnification.\n\nGANs were used to create the 2018 painting \"Edmond de Belamy\" which sold for $432,500.\n\nIn May 2018, a deepfake video of Donald Trump chastising Belgium citizens to abandon the Paris Agreement was circulated in an attempt to prioritize climate change. The video, produced using GAN technology, had been commissioned by Belgian political party Socialistische Partij Anders (sp.a) and uploaded to their Facebook and Twitter accounts. Widely believed true, the video provoked hundreds of comments on social media until sp.a owned up to their forgery.\n"}
{"id": "35914184", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35914184", "title": "Gordon Wallace Scott", "text": "Gordon Wallace Scott\n\nGordon Wallace Scott (1 October 1887 – 14 December 1940) was a Canadian politician.\n\nBorn in Montreal, Quebec, Scott appointed Treasurer in the cabinet of Louis-Alexandre Taschereau on October 16, 1930. He was the unusucessful Liberal candidate for the riding of Huntingdon in a by-election held on November 4, 1930 losing to Martin Fisher. He held the role of Treasurer until November 27. He was appointed to the Legislative Council of Quebec for Wellington on November 13, 1930 and was made a minister without portfolio as well. He resigned on August 4, 1931 to run as the Liberal candidate in the riding of Montréal–Saint-Georges in the 1931 election. He was defeated by Charles Ernest Gault and was re-appointed to the Legislative Council on June 17, 1932 for the Victoria division.\n\nHe died while in office on December 14, 1940 during the rescue operations carried out in the Atlantic Ocean after the sinking of the steamer \"Western Prince\" by the German submarine U-96 during World War II. He was accompanying C. D. Howe to Britain to examine the British war effort and Canada's assistance to it, and was killed trying to climb from the lifeboat to the rescuing ship (Howe survived). \n"}
{"id": "189395", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=189395", "title": "Greedy reductionism", "text": "Greedy reductionism\n\nGreedy reductionism, identified by Daniel Dennett, in his 1995 book \"Darwin's Dangerous Idea\", is a kind of erroneous reductionism. Whereas \"good\" reductionism means explaining a thing in terms of what it reduces to (for example, its parts and their interactions), greedy reductionism occurs when \"in their eagerness for a bargain, in their zeal to explain too much too fast, scientists and philosophers ... underestimate the complexities, trying to skip whole layers or levels of theory in their rush to fasten everything securely and neatly to the foundation\". Using the terminology of \"cranes\" (legitimate, mechanistic explanations) and \"skyhooks\" (essentially, fake—e.g. supernaturalistic—explanations) built up earlier in the chapter, Dennett recapitulates his initial definition of the term in the chapter summary on p. 83: \"Good reductionists suppose that all Design can be explained without skyhooks; greedy reductionists suppose it can all be explained without cranes.\"\n\nA canonical example of greedy reductionism, labelled as such by Dennett himself, is the (radical) behaviorism of B. F. Skinner. It is often said of this school of thought (which dominated the field of psychology, at least in the Anglo-American world, for part of the twentieth century) that it denied the existence of mental states such as beliefs, although at least in Skinner's original version it merely denied the theoretical utility (or necessity) of postulating such states in order to explain behavior. Notably, Skinner himself characterized his views as anti-reductionist: in \"Beyond Freedom and Dignity\" and other works (e.g. \"About Behaviorism\" and chapter 19 of \"Verbal Behavior\"), he wrote that while mental and neurological states did exist, behavior could be explained without recourse to either. As Dennett says, \"Skinner proclaimed that \"one simple iteration\" of the fundamental Darwinian process—operant conditioning—could account for all mentality, all learning, not just in pigeons but in human beings. ... Skinner was a greedy reductionist, trying to explain \"all\" the design (and design power) in a single stroke\".\n\nIn his earlier book \"Consciousness Explained\", Dennett argued that, without denying that human consciousness exists, we can understand it as coming about from the coordinated activity of many components in the brain that are themselves unconscious. In response, critics accused him of \"explaining away\" consciousness because he disputes the existence of certain conceptions of consciousness that he considers overblown and incompatible with what is physically possible. This is perhaps what motivated Dennett to make the greedy/good distinction in his follow-up book, to freely admit that reductionism can go overboard while pointing out that not all reductionism goes this far. \n\nA departure from strict reductionism in the opposite direction from greedy reductionism is called nonreductive physicalism. Nonreductive physicalists deny that a reductionistic analysis of a conscious system like the human mind is sufficient to explain all of the phenomena which are characteristic of that system. This idea is expressed in some theories that say consciousness is an emergent epiphenomenon that cannot be reduced to physiological properties of neurons. Those nonreductive physicalists, such as Colin McGinn, who claim the true relationship between the physical and the mental may be beyond scientific understanding—and therefore a \"mystery\"—have been dubbed Mysterians by Owen Flanagan.\n\nAn older name for 'Greedy reductionism' is \"Nothing-buttery\", an expression based on the repeated phrase \"such-and-such is nothing but...\". For example, in the article title, \"Consciousness is Nothing But a Word\".\n\nThis 1955 example of the phrase demonstrates its use in its characteristic context:Yet one occasionally hears it said that the brain is nothing but a machine. The assertion is usually made in a slurring tone which implies that the brain has been overrated in some unspecified way and is supposed to put an end to further discussion. One investigator calls this \"nothing buttery\" thinking. It is certainly a grave insult to the brain—and to the machines.The expression began to be used in US English from 1953, and in UK English from the beginning of the 1960s. Its usage peaked in about 1970, but the phrase continues to be used up to the present.\n\nThe related expression \"nothing-but-ism\" appeared earlier, in the 1930s. One of its earliest documented uses was in a 1935 review by W. J. H. Sprott of Carl Jung's book \"Man in Search of a Soul\" in the journal \"Mind\". Sprott praised Jung's book because \"it does not attempt to explain away spiritual aspiration, the antithesis of 'nothing-but'-ism\".\n\nAlthough in the 1970s the phrase \"nothing-buttery\" had already been in use for at least twenty years, it is often associated with the scholar Donald Mackay, who popularized its use at that time and debated publicly with B. F. Skinner.\n\n"}
{"id": "175996", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=175996", "title": "Grey goo", "text": "Grey goo\n\nGrey goo (also spelled gray goo) is a hypothetical end-of-the-world scenario involving molecular nanotechnology in which out-of-control self-replicating robots consume all biomass on Earth while building more of themselves, a scenario that has been called \"ecophagy\" (\"eating the environment\", more literally \"eating the habitation\"). The original idea assumed machines were designed to have this capability, while popularizations have assumed that machines might somehow gain this capability by accident.\n\nSelf-replicating machines of the macroscopic variety were originally described by mathematician John von Neumann, and are sometimes referred to as von Neumann machines or clanking replicators.\nThe term \"gray goo\" was coined by nanotechnology pioneer Eric Drexler in his 1986 book \"Engines of Creation\". In 2004 he stated, \"I wish I had never used the term 'gray goo'.\" \"Engines of Creation\" mentions \"gray goo\" in two paragraphs and a note, while the popularized idea of gray goo was first publicized in a mass-circulation magazine, \"Omni\", in November 1986.\n\nThe term was first used by molecular nanotechnology pioneer Eric Drexler in his book \"Engines of Creation\" (1986). In Chapter 4, \"Engines Of Abundance\", Drexler illustrates both exponential growth and inherent limits (not gray goo) by describing nanomachines that can function only if given special raw materials:\n\nImagine such a replicator floating in a bottle of chemicals, making copies of itself...the first replicator assembles a copy in one thousand seconds, the two replicators then build two more in the next thousand seconds, the four build another four, and the eight build another eight. At the end of ten hours, there are not thirty-six new replicators, but over 68 billion. In less than a day, they would weigh a ton; in less than two days, they would outweigh the Earth; in another four hours, they would exceed the mass of the Sun and all the planets combined — if the bottle of chemicals hadn't run dry long before.\n\nAccording to Drexler, the term was popularized by an article in science fiction magazine \"Omni\", which also popularized the term \"nanotechnology\" in the same issue. Drexler says arms control is a far greater issue than grey goo \"nanobugs\".\n\nIn a History Channel broadcast, a contrasting idea (a kind of gray goo) is referred to in a futuristic doomsday scenario:\n\"In a common practice, billions of nanobots are released to clean up an oil spill off the coast of Louisiana. However, due to a programming error, the nanobots devour all carbon based objects, instead of just the hydrocarbons of the oil. The nanobots destroy everything, all the while, replicating themselves. Within days, the planet is turned to dust.\"\n\nDrexler describes gray goo in Chapter 11 of \"Engines of Creation\":\n\nEarly assembler-based replicators could beat the most advanced modern organisms. 'Plants' with 'leaves' no more efficient than today's solar cells could out-compete real plants, crowding the biosphere with an inedible foliage. Tough, omnivorous 'bacteria' could out-compete real bacteria: they could spread like blowing pollen, replicate swiftly, and reduce the biosphere to dust in a matter of days. Dangerous replicators could easily be too tough, small, and rapidly spreading to stop — at least if we made no preparation. We have trouble enough controlling viruses and fruit flies.\n\nDrexler notes that the geometric growth made possible by self-replication is inherently limited by the availability of suitable raw materials.\n\nDrexler used the term \"gray goo\" not to indicate color or texture, but to emphasize the difference between \"superiority\" in terms of human values and \"superiority\" in terms of competitive success:\n\nThough masses of uncontrolled replicators need not be grey or gooey, the term \"grey goo\" emphasizes that replicators able to obliterate life might be less inspiring than a single species of crabgrass. They might be \"superior\" in an evolutionary sense, but this need not make them valuable.\nBill Joy, one of the founders of Sun Microsystems, discussed some of the problems with pursuing this technology in his now-famous 2000 article in \"Wired\" magazine, titled \"Why the Future Doesn't Need Us\". In direct response to Joy's concerns, the first quantitative technical analysis of the ecophagy scenario was published in 2000 by nanomedicine pioneer Robert Freitas.\n\nDrexler more recently conceded that there is no need to build anything that even resembles a potential runaway replicator. This would avoid the problem entirely. In a paper in the journal \"Nanotechnology\", he argues that self-replicating machines are needlessly complex and inefficient. His 1992 technical book on advanced nanotechnologies \"Nanosystems: Molecular Machinery, Manufacturing, and Computation\" describes manufacturing systems that are desktop-scale factories with specialized machines in fixed locations and conveyor belts to move parts from place to place. None of these measures would prevent a party from creating a weaponized grey goo, were such a thing possible.\n\nPrince Charles called upon the British Royal Society to investigate the \"enormous environmental and social risks\" of nanotechnology in a planned report, leading to much media commentary on grey goo. The Royal Society's report on nanoscience was released on 29 July 2004, and declared the possibility of self-replicating machines to lie too far in the future to be of concern to regulators.\n\nMore recent analysis in the paper titled \"Safe Exponential Manufacturing\" from the Institute of Physics (co-written by Chris Phoenix, Director of Research of the Center for Responsible Nanotechnology, and Eric Drexler), shows that the danger of grey goo is far less likely than originally thought. However, other long-term major risks to society and the environment from nanotechnology have been identified. Drexler has made a somewhat public effort to retract his grey goo hypothesis, in an effort to focus the debate on more realistic threats associated with knowledge-enabled nanoterrorism and other misuses.\n\nIn \"Safe Exponential Manufacturing\", which was published in a 2004 issue of \"Nanotechnology\", it was suggested that creating manufacturing systems with the ability to self-replicate by the use of their own energy sources would not be needed. The Foresight Institute also recommended embedding controls in the molecular machines. These controls would be able to prevent anyone from purposely abusing nanotechnology, and therefore avoid the grey goo scenario.\n\nGrey goo is a useful construct for considering low-probability, high-impact outcomes from emerging technologies. Thus, it is a useful tool in the ethics of technology. Daniel A. Vallero applied it as a worst-case scenario thought experiment for technologists contemplating possible risks from advancing a technology. This requires that a decision tree or event tree include even extremely low probability events if such events may have an extremely negative and irreversible consequence, i.e. application of the precautionary principle. Dianne Irving admonishes that \"any error in science will have a rippling effect...\" Vallero adapted this reference to chaos theory to emerging technologies, wherein slight permutations of initial conditions can lead to unforeseen and profoundly negative downstream effects, for which the technologist and the new technology's proponents must be held accountable.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "316849", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=316849", "title": "Hazard analysis and critical control points", "text": "Hazard analysis and critical control points\n\nHazard analysis and critical control points, or HACCP (), is a systematic preventive approach to food safety from biological, chemical, and physical hazards in production processes that can cause the finished product to be unsafe and designs measures to reduce these risks to a safe level. In this manner, HACCP attempts to avoid hazards rather than attempting to inspect finished products for the effects of those hazards. The HACCP system can be used at all stages of a food chain, from food production and preparation processes including packaging, distribution, etc. The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) require mandatory HACCP programs for juice and meat as an effective approach to food safety and protecting public health. Meat HACCP systems are regulated by the USDA, while seafood and juice are regulated by the FDA. All other food companies in the United States that are required to register with the FDA under the Public Health Security and Bioterrorism Preparedness and Response Act of 2002, as well as firms outside the US that export food to the US, are transitioning to mandatory hazard analysis and risk-based preventive controls (HARPC) plans.\n\nHACCP is believed to stem from a production process monitoring used during World War II because traditional \"end of the pipe\" testing on artillery shell's firing mechanisms could not be performed, and a large percentage of the artillery shells made at the time were either duds or misfiring. HACCP itself was conceived in the 1960s when the US National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) asked Pillsbury to design and manufacture the first foods for space flights. Since then, HACCP has been recognized internationally as a logical tool for adapting traditional inspection methods to a modern, science-based, food safety system. Based on risk-assessment, HACCP plans allow both industry and government to allocate their resources efficiently in establishing and auditing safe food production practices. In 1994, the organization International HACCP Alliance was established, initially to assist the US meat and poultry industries with implementing HACCP, and now its membership has been spread over other professional and industrial areas.\n\nHence, HACCP has been increasingly applied to industries other than food, such as cosmetics and pharmaceuticals. This method, which in effect seeks to plan out unsafe practices based on science, differs from traditional \"produce and sort\" quality control methods that do nothing to prevent hazards from occurring and must identify them at the end of the process. HACCP is focused only on the health safety issues of a product and not the quality of the product, yet HACCP principles are the basis of most food quality and safety assurance systems. In the United States, HACCP compliance is regulated by 21 CFR part 120 and 123. Similarly, FAO and WHO published a guideline for all governments to handle the issue in small and less developed food businesses.\n\nIn the early 1960s, a collaborated effort between the Pillsbury Company, NASA, and the U.S. Army Laboratories began with the objective to provide safe food for space expeditions. People involved in this collaboration included Herbert Hollander, Mary Klicka, and Hamed El-Bisi of the United States Army Laboratories in Natick, Massachusetts, Rev. Dr. Paul A. Lachance of the Manned Spacecraft Center in Houston, Texas, and Howard E. Baumann representing Pillsbury as its lead scientist.\n\nTo ensure that the food sent to space was safe, Lachance imposed strict microbial requirements, including pathogen limits (including \"E. coli\", \"Salmonella\", and \"Clostridium botulinum\"). Using the traditional end product testing method, it was soon realized that almost all of the food manufactured was being used for testing and very little was left for actual use. Therefore, a new approach was needed.\n\nNASA's own requirements for critical control points (CCP) in engineering management would be used as a guide for food safety. CCP derived from failure mode and effects analysis (FMEA) from NASA via the munitions industry to test weapon and engineering system reliability. Using that information, NASA and Pillsbury required contractors to identify \"critical failure areas\" and eliminate them from the system, a first in the food industry then. Baumann, a microbiologist by training, was so pleased with Pillsbury's experience in the space program that he advocated for his company to adopt what would become HACCP at Pillsbury.\n\nSoon, Pillsbury was confronted with a food safety issue of its own when glass contamination was found in farina, a cereal commonly used in infant food. Baumann's leadership promoted HACCP in Pillsbury for producing commercial foods, and applied to its own food production. This led to a panel discussion at the 1971 National Conference on Food Protection that included examining CCPs and good manufacturing practices in producing safe foods. Several botulism cases were attributed to under-processed low-acid canned foods in 1970–71. The United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) asked Pillsbury to organize and conduct a training program on the inspection of canned foods for FDA inspectors. This 21-day program was first held in September 1972 with 11 days of classroom lecture and 10 days of canning plant evaluations. Canned food regulations (21 CFR 108, 21 CFR 110, 21 CFR 113, and 21 CFR 114) were first published in 1969. Pillsbury's training program to the FDA in 1969, titled \"Food Safety through the Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Point System\", was the first time that HACCP was used.\n\nHACCP was initially set on three principles, now shown as principles one, two, and four in the section below. Pillsbury quickly adopted two more principles, numbers three and five, to its own company in 1975. It was further supported by the National Academy of Sciences (NAS) that governmental inspections by the FDA go from reviewing plant records to compliance with its HACCP system. A second proposal by the NAS led to the development of the National Advisory Committee on Microbiological Criteria for Foods (NACMCF) in 1987. NACMCF was initially responsible for defining HACCP's systems and guidelines for its application and were coordinated with the Codex Committee for Food Hygiene, that led to reports starting in 1992 and further harmonization in 1997. By 1997, the seven HACCP principles listed below became the standard. A year earlier, the American Society for Quality offered their first certifications for HACCP Auditors. (First known as Certified Quality Auditor-HACCP, they were changed to Certified HACCP Auditor (CHA) in 2004.).\n\nHACCP expanded in all realms of the food industry, going into meat, poultry, seafood, dairy, and has spread now from the farm to the fork.\n\n\nThe seven HACCP principles are included in the international standard ISO 22000 FSMS 2011. This standard is a complete food safety and quality management system incorporating the elements of prerequisite programmes(GMP & SSOP), HACCP and the quality management system, which together form an organization's Total Quality Management system.\n\nOther standards, such as Safe Quality Food Institute's SQF Code, also relies upon the HACCP methodology as the basis for developing and maintaining food safety (level 2) and food quality (level 3) plans and programs in concert with the fundamental prerequisites of good manufacturing practices.\n\nTraining for developing and implementing HACCP food safety management system are offered by several quality assurance companies.\nHowever, ASQ\ndoes provide a Trained HACCP Auditor (CHA) exam to\nindividuals seeking professional training.\nIn the UK the Chartered Institute of Environmental Health (CIEH) and Royal Society for Public Health offer HACCP for Food Manufacturing qualifications, accredited by the QCA\n(Qualifications and Curriculum Authority).\n\n\nThe use of HACCP for water quality management was first proposed nearly 20 years ago. Thereafter, a number of water quality initiatives applied HACCP principles and steps to the control of infectious disease from water, and provided the basis for the Water Safety Plan (WSP) approach in the third edition of the World Health Organization (WHO) report, which has been described as \"a way of adapting the HACCP approach to drinking water systems\".\n\nProgramme Modernization: According to Ongley, 1998, a series of steps could be taken to execute a more useful transition – from technical programmmes to policy to management decisions. Various aspects of the modernization process have been discussed by Ongley in ESCAP (1997):\n\nHazards associated with water systems in buildings include physical, chemical and microbial hazards. In 2013, NSF International, a public health and safety NGO, established education, training and certification programs in HACCP for building water systems. The programs, developed with the guidance of subject matter experts Aaron Rosenblatt and William McCoy center on the use of HACCP principles adapted to the specific requirements of domestic (hot and cold) and utility (HVAC, etc.) water systems in buildings, to prevent plumbing-associated hazards from harming people. Hazards addressed include scalding, lead, and disinfection byproducts as well as a range of clinically important pathogens, such as \"Legionella\", \"Pseudomonas\", nontuberculous mycobacteria (NTM), \"Acinetobacter\", \"Elizabethkingia\", and \"Naegleria\". Early adopters of HACCP for building water systems include leading healthcare institutions, notably Mayo Clinic in Rochester, MN.\n\nISO 22000 is a standard designed to help augment HACCP on issues related to food safety. Although several companies, especially big ones, have either implemented or are on the point of implementing ISO 22000, there are many others which are hesitant to do so. The main reason behind that is the lack of information and the fear that the new standard is too demanding in terms of bureaucratic work.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2205848", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2205848", "title": "Henry Way Kendall", "text": "Henry Way Kendall\n\nHenry Way Kendall (December 9, 1926 – February 15, 1999) was an American particle physicist who won the Nobel Prize in Physics in 1990 jointly with Jerome Isaac Friedman and Richard E. Taylor \"for their pioneering investigations concerning deep inelastic scattering of electrons on protons and bound neutrons, which have been of essential importance for the development of the quark model in particle physics.\"\n\nKendall was born in Boston to Evelyn Way and Henry P. Kendall, an industrialist. Kendall grew up in Sharon, Massachusetts and attended Deerfield Academy. He enrolled in the U. S. Merchant Marine Academy in 1945, and served on a troop transport on the North Atlantic in the winter of 1945 - 1946.\n\nIn 1946, he enrolled at Amherst College where he majored in mathematics, graduating in 1950. While at Amherst, he operated a diving and marine salvage company during two summers. He co-authored two books, one on shallow water diving and the other on underwater photography.\n\nHe did graduate research at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, involving an experimental study of positronium, and he obtained his PhD in 1955. He then spent the next two years as a postdoctoral fellow at Brookhaven National Laboratory. He then spent five years in Robert Hofstadter's research group at Stanford University in the late 50's and early 60's, where he worked with Jerome Friedman and Richard Taylor, studying the structure of protons and neutrons, using the university's 300 feet long linear electron accelerator. He developed a close working relationship with Wolfgang K. H. Panofsky at Stanford.\n\nHe then returned to the MIT Physics Department, where he remained for the rest of his life.\n\nIn the late 60's and early '70s, Kendall worked in collaboration with researchers at the Stanford Linear Accelerator Center (SLAC) including Friedman and Taylor. These experiments involved scattering high-energy beams of electrons from protons and deuterons and heavier nuclei. At lower energies, it had already been found that the electrons would only be scattered through low angles, consistent with the idea that the nucleons had no internal structure. However, the SLAC-MIT experiments showed that higher energy electrons could be scattered through much higher angles, with the loss of some energy. These deep inelastic scattering results provided the first experimental evidence that the protons and neutrons were made up of point-like particles, later identified to be the up and down quarks that had previously been proposed on theoretical grounds. The experiments also provided the first evidence for the existence of gluons.\n\nKendall was not only a very accomplished physicist, but also a very skilled mountaineer and photographer. He did extensive rock climbing in Yosemite Valley, followed by expeditions to the Andes, Himalaya and Antarctica, photographing his experiences with large format cameras. He was elected a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 1982. On April 7, 2012, the American Alpine Club inducted Kendall into its Hall of Mountaineering Excellence at an award ceremony in Golden, Colorado.\n\nKendall was one of the founding members of the Union of Concerned Scientists (UCS) in 1969. He served as Chairman of the UCS from 1974 until his death in 1999. His public policy interests included avoiding nuclear war, the Strategic Defense Initiative, the B2 bomber, nuclear reactor safety and global warming.\n\nHe was also a member of the JASON Defense Advisory Group.\n\nKendall died while diving the cave at the Edward Ball Wakulla Springs State Park, Florida as a part of the Wakulla 2 Project. He by-passed two pre-dive checklists for his Cis-Lunar MK-5P Mixed Gas rebreather and entered the spring basin without his dive buddy from the National Geographic Society. Kendall missed turning on the oxygen supply to his rebreather and lost consciousness and drowned. The autopsy revealed a physiological issue that led to his disregarding the protocols.\n\n"}
{"id": "36756690", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36756690", "title": "Heslington Brain", "text": "Heslington Brain\n\nThe Heslington Brain is a 2,600-year-old human brain found inside a skull buried in a pit in Heslington, Yorkshire, in England, in 2008. It is the oldest preserved brain ever found in Eurasia, and is believed to be the best-preserved ancient brain in the world. The skull was discovered during an archaeological dig commissioned by the University of York on the site of its new campus on the outskirts of the city of York. The area was found to have been the site of well-developed permanent habitation between 2,000–3,000 years before the present day. \n\nA number of possibly ritualistic objects were found to have been deposited in several pits, including the skull, which had belonged to a man probably in his 30s. He had been hanged before being decapitated with a knife and his skull appears to have been buried immediately. The rest of the body was missing. Although it is not known why he was killed, it is possible that it may have been a human sacrifice or ritual murder.\n\nThe brain was found while the skull was being cleaned. It had survived despite the rest of the tissue on the skull having disappeared long ago. After being extracted at York Hospital, the brain was subjected to a range of medical and forensic examinations which found that it was remarkably intact, though it had shrunk to only about 20% of its original size. It showed few signs of decay, though most of its original material had been replaced by an as yet unidentified organic compound, due to chemical changes during burial. \n\nAccording to the archaeologists and scientists who have examined it, the brain has a \"resilient, tofu-like texture\". It is not clear why the Heslington brain survived, although the presence of a wet, anoxic environment underground seems to have been an essential factor, and research is still ongoing to shed light on how the local soil conditions may have contributed to its preservation.\n\nThe site where the brain was discovered is about south-east of York city centre on the eastern edge of Heslington village. It is situated partly on the ridge of an ancient glacial moraine and partly in the basin of the Vale of York. Until the construction of the Heslington East campus of the University of York in 2009, the site was used as agricultural land.\n\nSurvey and excavation work, commissioned by the university, was carried out on the site from 2003. It culminated in a full-scale excavation carried out in 2007–08 by York Archaeological Trust in an area of just over . The archaeologists found that the landscape had been inhabited and farmed for thousands of years. The remains of prehistoric fields, buildings and trackways were discovered, dating from the Bronze Age through to the middle of the Iron Age, with traces of earlier activity as far back as the Mesolithic and Neolithic periods. \n\nDuring the Iron Age, the area appears to have been the site of a permanent settlement. The excavators found a number of circular features, which they interpreted as the remains of roundhouses. The inhabitants seem to have relocated during the Roman period to a site further up the ridge, leaving the area of the Iron Age settlement to revert to fields.\n\nAround a dozen pits were found on the site and possibly ritualistic objects were found in a number of them. Some pits had been pierced with a single stake, while a number of pits included \"burned\" cobbles of a local type of stone. The headless body of a red deer had been deposited in a drainage channel and a red deer antler was found in an Iron Age ditch. In one waterlogged pit, a human skull – with the jawbone and the first two vertebrae still attached – was discovered in August 2008, lying face-down at the bottom of the pit. The find was seen as unusual but its true importance was not discovered until after it had been transported, within a block of soil, to the Finds Laboratory of the York Archaeological Trust. As Finds officer Rachel Cubitt was cleaning it, she noticed that something was loose inside the skull. She peered through its base and saw that it contained a \"yellow substance\". She said later that it \"jogged my memory of a university lecture on the rare survival of ancient brain tissue ... we gave the skull special conservation treatment as a result and sought expert medical opinion.\" The skull and its contents were put into cold storage and were examined using a variety of medical and autopsy techniques.\n\nThe skull was found to be that of a man aged between 26–45 years old at the time of death, likely in his mid-30s. Radiocarbon dating found that the man had died some time between the 7th century BCE and 5th century BCE (673–482 BCE). He belonged to the Mitochondrial DNA haplogroup J1d, which had not previously been seen in Britain, in either living or dead individuals. J1d has been identified previously in only a few people from Tuscany and the Middle East; it may have been more widely present in Britain in the past, and lost through genetic drift.\n\nHe had died from traumatic spondylolisthesis – a complete fracture of his spine that is usually associated with death by hanging. Shortly after death his head and upper vertebrae had been severed from his body, almost surgically, using a thin-bladed knife. Although there is evidence from other sites of \"trophy heads\" in Iron Age societies, it appears that the head was immediately deposited in the pit and buried in fine-grained wet sediment. The reason for the killing is unclear. The archaeological context suggests that the man may have been killed for a ritual or sacrificial purposes.\n\nCT scanning was carried out at York Hospital, where the skull was opened and the contents were removed and forensically examined. The interior of the skull was found to contain several large fragments of brain mixed with sediment. The brain had shrunk to about 20% of its original size, but many anatomical features were still readily identifiable. It was remarkably well-preserved and had few signs of decay other than the presence of a few bacterial spores. One of the fragments clearly showed the neural folds of a cerebral lobe.\n\nDiscovery of such a well-preserved brain is all the more remarkable, considering the fragility of all human brains following death. Even when placed in a chilled environment in a mortuary, brains quickly dissolve into liquid. The high fat content of the brain means that it is usually the first major organ to deteriorate. The brains of the crew of the American Civil War submarine \"H. L. Hunley\" were recovered along with their skeletonised bodies in 2000, and brains were found in the wreck of the English warship \"Mary Rose\", but archaeologists found that they \"liquefied within a matter of minutes\" unless preserved immediately in formalin. Brains found in terrestrial environments have tended to be better preserved, as the surviving material tends to have a higher proportion of hydrophobic (water-repellent) matter than in a fresh brain. There appear to be a number of routes by which brains have been preserved, though a common factor appears to be the existence of a wet, anoxic environment. The presence of such an environment is thought to have been responsible for a similar but less complete preservation of brain matter discovered in the 1990s during the construction of a new magistrates' court in Hull.\n\nThe preservation of the brain has been attributed to several factors. First, the waterlogged, anoxic soil in which the head was buried, even though only the brain, and not the rest of the tissue, survived burial. Only scanty traces of other tissue remain on the rest of the skull. Second, the brain had undergone unusual chemical changes as a result of being severed and the conditions under which it was buried. In contrast to other brains found, no adipocere – a fatty compound formed through the process of decay – was detected in the Heslington brain, probably because the head was severed from the body before the brain had started to decay. There had also been a major decrease in the amount of proteins and lipids and their replacement by fatty acids and other substances produced as degradation products. Much of the original substance of the brain has been replaced by a high molecular weight, long-chain, hydrocarbon material that is as yet unidentified. According to the archaeologists who have examined it, the brain is \"odourless\", with a \"smooth surface\" and a \"resilient, tofu-like texture.\" \n\nThirdly, the human body tends to decay from the inside out, consumed by a post-mortem swarm of bacteria from the gut which spread around the body via blood from the alimentary tract. In this particular case, the head was severed from the alimentary tract and drained of blood, so the intestinal bacteria did not have an opportunity to contaminate it. The precise mechanism by which the Heslington brain was preserved is unclear, however; in a bid to shed light on this question, researchers buried a number of pigs' heads in and around the campus to see what happened to them.\n\n"}
{"id": "1958802", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1958802", "title": "Interventionism (medicine)", "text": "Interventionism (medicine)\n\nInterventionism, when discussing the practice of medicine, is generally a derogatory term used by critics of a medical model in which patients are viewed as passive recipients receiving external treatments provided by the physician that have the effect of prolonging life, or at least of providing a subjective sense of doing everything possible.\n\nInterventionism is commonly encouraged by terminally ill patients and their family members when they are emotionally unprepared to acknowledge that the patient is going to die. Most healthcare providers are uncomfortable telling people that further cure-oriented or life-extending treatment is futile medical care, and patients and families are frequently angry with the provider or feel rejected by the provider when they are given accurate, but negative, information about the patient's prospects. In nearly all cases, \"something\" can be done for the patient, and families often reward and encourage a provider who proposes a string of useless and often directly harmful treatments; as a result, it is easier for providers to substitute worthless and expensive activity than to honestly admit that nothing will extend the patient's life.\n\nInterventionism is related to optimism bias. This is the belief that the patient will beat the odds, no matter how unlikely this might be. Optimism bias encourages patients to undertake treatments that have only tiny chances of success, in the erroneous and irrational belief that they will be part of the tiny minority that is successful, rather than part of the vast majority who are not.\n\nWith terminally ill patients, the attitude of interventionism prevents providers and patients from taking full advantage of palliative care options. The primary focus for palliative care is improving the patient's immediate, daily life through better management of medications, practical assistance, planning for possible complications, and other services. Patients who use palliative care services usually live longer, have fewer disruptive medical crises, incur fewer medical expenses, and have significantly higher quality of life.\n"}
{"id": "48342842", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48342842", "title": "Latifî", "text": "Latifî\n\nLatifî (1491–1582), or Kastamonulu Latifî Çelebi, was an Ottoman poet and bibliographer. Born in Kastamonu, in northern Anatolia, he became famous for his \"tezkire\" \"Tezkiretü'ş-Şuara\" (Memoirs of the Poets), the second Ottoman collection of bibliographical data on poets and poetry in overall.\n\nLatifî was born Abdüllatif Hatibzâde into a notable family in Kastamonu and was educated there. He worked as accountant and katib (secretary) in various vakifs (pious foundation), including Belgrade, Constantinople, Rhodes, and Egypt.\n<br>His major work was \"Tezkiretü'ş-Şuara\" (Memoirs of the Poets), which was the second \"tezkire\" in chronological order after that of Sehi Bey. It is also the one with most extent copies, 91 in total. The \"tezkire\" was organized in three sections with an introduction. It narrated the life and work of around 300 poets of the period from the reign of Murad II (reigned between 1421-1451) until 1543, and was finished and presented it to Sultan Suleiman the Magnificent in 1546. The Sultan was so pleased that he appointed Latifi as secretary at the \"Ayyub al-Ansari\" complex endowment. According to Aşık Çelebi's work \"Senses of Poets\" (Meşairü'ş-Şuara), the poet wrote it mostly during the era of Suleiman, but presented it to Murad III in 1574 after making minor changes to the introduction.\n<br>Another important work of him was \"Evsaf-ı İstanbul\" (Qualities of Istanbul) written in 1525. It gives a historical overview on the city of Istanbul, intertwined with geographical data, and information on the city's neighborhoods, architecture, and social life. \n\nLatifi spent the last years of his life in Istanbul. He died by drowning when the ship he was traveling to Yemen sank in the Red Sea.\n\n"}
{"id": "1924535", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924535", "title": "List of Mayflower passengers who died in the winter of 1620–21", "text": "List of Mayflower passengers who died in the winter of 1620–21\n\nForty-five of the 102 Mayflower passengers died in the winter of 1620–21, and the \"Mayflower\" colonists suffered greatly during their first winter in the New World from lack of shelter, scurvy, and general conditions on board ship. They were buried on Cole's Hill.\n\nPeople marked * below were probably buried in unmarked graves in the Coles Hill Burial Ground in Plymouth, Massachusetts. In 1921, some of the remains of persons buried on that hill were collected into the sarcophagus that is the Pilgrim Memorial Tomb on Cole's Hill in Plymouth. Many of the people listed here are named on the Tomb.\n\n\n\n\nAccording to Bradford's Register, a contemporary source\n\n\n\nFour deaths occurred in months unknown before the first Thanksgiving bringing the total deaths to 51.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41147948", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41147948", "title": "List of NFL players with chronic traumatic encephalopathy", "text": "List of NFL players with chronic traumatic encephalopathy\n\nA large number of former American football (NFL) players have been diagnosed with or have had chronic traumatic encephalopathy, or CTE. A definitive diagnosis so far can be made only post-mortem. However, an increasing number of former players are reporting symptoms of CTE.\n\nA definitive test currently can be made only by examining the brain tissue of a deceased victim.\n\nAs the families of many deceased players wish to keep their medical information private, the following list is incomplete. A brain injury study conducted at the Boston University School of Medicine showed that 33 of 34 players tested post-mortem showed clear signs of CTE, and additional players have so far been confirmed with CTE separately. A new list released in November 2016 mentions CTE in 90 of 94 brains of former and deceased NFL players. In July 2017, a new study showed that 110 of 111 brains examined showed signs of CTE.\nIncluded in the list are players diagnosed with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) who were never tested \"post-mortem\" for CTE but whose history appears consistent with CTE. A typical diagnosis of ALS has primarily been based on the symptoms and signs the physician observes in the patient and a series of tests to rule out other diseases and therefore, prior to the discovery of CTE as a phenomenon in ex-American football players, many CTE cases were diagnosed as ALS. The testing of CTE in deceased ex-NFL players began only after the disease was first diagnosed, in 2002, in the brain tissue of Mike Webster. After then, testing became common practice only gradually. A cohort mortality study run by the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) examined 3,349 NFL players who played at least five full seasons from 1959 to 1988. Findings showed that while NFL players lived longer than the average American male, the risk of death associated with neurodegenerative disorders was about three times higher among the NFL cohort. The risk for death from Alzheimer's disease and ALS were about four times higher among the NFL cohort.\n\nSome on this list may have had dementia not related to ALS or CTE.\n\n\nThese players have publicly acknowledged either having been diagnosed with likely CTE or having experienced symptoms, such as dementia or unusual memory loss, consistent with CTE. In some cases, the player has received a diagnosis of ALS but symptoms are consistent with CTE. There are at least two dozen former players who were diagnosed as part of a UCLA study but have not come forward publicly. There are also around 4,500 former players who joined a class action suit against the NFL alleging that it had covered up a growing body of medical evidence about the preponderance of head-trauma related CTE in ex-NFL players.\n\nSome of these ex-players may have medical conditions other than CTE or ALS. For example, ex-players that have presented with symptoms late in life may have other forms of age-related dementia. Some of the former players on this list are came forward only in the context of the class action lawsuit versus the NFL. At present, there is no definitive CTE test available for living persons. Their average age is 51.\nThis list is incomplete. The NFL reportedly reached a settlement in 2013 with around 4,500 former players (or their estates). This list currently contains fewer than half that number.\n"}
{"id": "20615759", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20615759", "title": "List of costly or deadly hailstorms", "text": "List of costly or deadly hailstorms\n\nThis is a list of the costliest or deadliest hailstorms on record.\n\nNo entries yet.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8497684", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8497684", "title": "MADS-box", "text": "MADS-box\n\nThe MADS box is a conserved sequence motif. The genes which contain this motif are called the MADS-box gene family. The MADS box encodes the DNA-binding MADS domain. The MADS domain binds to DNA sequences of high similarity to the motif CC[A/T]GG termed the CArG-box. MADS-domain proteins are generally transcription factors. The length of the MADS-box reported by various researchers varies somewhat, but typical lengths are in the range of 168 to 180 base pairs, i.e. the encoded MADS domain has a length of 56 to 60 amino acids. There is evidence that the MADS domain evolved from a sequence stretch of a type II topoisomerase in a common ancestor of all extant eukaryotes.\n\nThe first MADS-box gene to be identified was \"ARG80\" from budding yeast, \"Saccharomyces cerevisiae\", but was at that time not recognized as a member of a large gene family. The MADS-box gene family got its name later as an acronym referring to the four founding members, ignoring \"ARG80\":\n\nMADS-box genes were detected in nearly all eukaryotes studied. While the genomes of animals and fungi generally possess only around one to five MADS-box genes, genomes of flowering plants have around 100 MADS-box genes.\nTwo types of MADS-domain proteins are distinguished; the SRF-like or Type I MADS-domain proteins and the MEF2-like (after MYOCYTE-ENHANCER-FACTOR2) or Type II MADS-domain proteins. SRF-like MADS-domain proteins in animals and fungi have a second conserved domain, the SAM (SRF, ARG80, MCM1) domain. MEF2-like MADS-domain proteins in animals and fungi have the MEF2 domain as a second conserved domain. In plants, the MEF2-like MADS-domain proteins are also termed MIKC-type proteins referring to their conserved domain structure, where the MADS (M) domain is followed by an Intervening (I), a Keratin-like (K) and a C-terminal domain. In plants, MADS-domain protein form tetramers and this is thought to be central for their function. The structure of the tetramerisation domain of the MADS-domain protein SEPALLATA3 was solved illustrating the structural basis for tetramer formation\n\nA geneticist intensely investigating MADS-box genes is Günter Theißen at the University of Jena. For example, he and his coworkers could show by these genes that the order of Gnetales is related more closely to the conifers than with the flowering plants.\n\nMADS-box genes have a variety of functions. In animals, MADS-box genes are involved in muscle development and cell proliferation and differentiation. Functions in fungi range from pheromone response to arginine metabolism.\n\nIn plants, MADS-box genes are involved in controlling all major aspects of development, including male and female gametophyte development, embryo and seed development, as well as root, flower and fruit development.\n\nSome MADS-box genes of flowering plants have homeotic functions like the HOX genes of animals. The floral homeotic MADS-box genes (such as \"AGAMOUS\" and \"DEFICIENS\") participate in the determination of floral organ identity according to the ABC model of flower development.\n\nAnother function of MADS-box genes is flowering time determination. In \"Arabidopsis thaliana\" the MADS box genes \"SOC1\" and \"Flowering Locus C\" (\"FLC\") have been shown to have an important role in the integration of molecular flowering time pathways. These genes are essential for the correct timing of \"flowering\", and help to ensure that fertilization occurs at the time of maximal reproductive potential.\n\n"}
{"id": "897958", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=897958", "title": "Metabarons", "text": "Metabarons\n\nThe Metabarons or The Saga of The Meta-Barons is a science fiction comic series relating the history of a dynasty of perfect warriors known as the Metabarons. \"The Metabarons\" series was written by creator Alejandro Jodorowsky and illustrated by Argentinian artist Juan Giménez. The series, published by Humanoïdes Associés, is complete, the last volume having been released at the end of 2003.\n\nThe first appearance of a Metabaron (chronologically the last of the Metabarons) was May 1981 in the \"Incal\" comic book series. This was followed by a series of prequels that concerned this character's origin, presented as the narration of the android Tonto to the android Lothar, of his masters' achievements. The series takes place over the course of several generations, and chronicles the life of each of the five Metabarons. The stories depict a space opera reminiscent of Greek tragedy, and heavily influenced by Frank Herbert's \"Dune\" novels. Jodorowsky had been in the early stages of making a Dune film in 1973.\n\nEvery Metabaron is mutilated by his father in his youth so that his endurance to pain is tested, and receives a powerful mechanical body part as a replacement for the destroyed limb. In each generation, the son and heir must eventually face his father in a battle to the death. These battles have taken many forms, from hand-to-hand combat to space duels, and the succession is only achieved once the son succeeds in killing his father.\n\nThe Bushitaka is the strict code of honor followed by the Metabarons; named after the Japanese bushido. It demands that the practitioners dedicate themselves to victory in all things at any cost, wherein the only alternative to victory is death, and even forsake their own family members in the pursuit of total victory.\n\nEach Metabaron draws upon an array of advanced weaponry. These include cybernetically-implanted lasers, nanotech nuclear warheads implanted in the body, swords which can disintegrate in bursts of flame, and advanced spaceships. Many of the Metabarons also exhibit powerful psychic abilities.\n\nOn the occasion of his son-in-law Othon's succession to the title of Metabaron (intended to be resolved by mortal combat but forestalled by his use of guile to seal victory), Baron Berard of Castaka tells of his caste's lineage leading up to the present. On the remote planet Ahour-The-Dwarf, a long-forgotten schism had drawn its inhabitants into an interminable civil war between two castes -- the Amakuras and the Castakas -- who adhere to respective versions of a once-shared warrior code, known by the Amakuras as Bushikara and by the Castakas as Bushitaka. One day, the Castakas' queen Oriela was abducted by the Amakura king Divadal, taunting her king Omezo by publicly raping her and taking her hostage. Omezo, employing guile over the established codes of combat, overwhelmed the Amakuras, but not before Divadal released a bioweapon that rendered every man on the planet sterile.\n\nOriela, having been shielded from the weapon, gave birth to Divadal's son, Dayal -- the last fertile male on the planet, spared in contravention of the bushitaka due to necessity -- then committed ritual suicide eight days later, leaving him only a bite on his shoulder as a memento. Once of age, Dayal became a breeding-stud to all the Castaka women, but once his offspring came of age themselves, Omezo gave up concealing his disgust at his half-Amakura \"stepson\" and banished him. His mentor General Pakko matched him with his daughter Antigrea, whom he had conceived just before the assault on the Amakuras, and despite initial antipathy they fell in love. Antigrea bore Dayal twin daughters, Myrtha and Narda, but Dayal's disappointment at lacking a male heir drove him to withdraw to the wilderness, hunting wild game, while Antigrea and Pakko raised the twins in the martial arts.\n\nSome years later, the Technopriests elected to build their new space station in Ahour's system. While they saw the planet as no inherent threat, their concern that an enemy might use it as a bridgehead led them to lobby the ageing Omezo to install planetary defences on-world. When he declined, they infected him with a virus in hopes his heir (Dayal) might be more accommodating. The dying Omezo abhored having Dayal succeed him and ordered the murder of him and his family, but Pakko bought time for them to reunite at Dayal's remote bunker. The Technos, witnessing the failure of their machinations, destroyed the whole planet, leaving the bunker adrift as an asteroid. There, Dayal finally acknowledged his warrior daughters and completed their training.\n\nThe family hijacked a Techno convoy and leveraged its booty and their lethal martial skills to claim leadership of the pirate asteroid of Thor-Thougah, from which they wage a bloody and profitable offensive against the Technos. Eventually, the Technos catch the pirates in an ambush and Antigrea is mortally wounded. Seeking a burial site, they land on the planet Marmola, but find its marble composition impossible to dig. They are ambushed by bandits who seek the planet's hidden treasure, a secret guarded by the giant eagle-like Gangez, and use Antigrea's remains as bait to capture him. Loosing their bonds they overwhelm the bandits, and pledge themselves to the now-dying Gangez who by eating her has become Antigrea's sepulchre. Gangez leads them to the planet's only fertile valley, where they bury him, and his spirit leads them to the planet's treasure: a subterranean reservoir of epiphyte, a substance that defies gravity. Summoning the Techno robots he cast into space on their first raid, Dayal develops the valley into a city for his caste.\n\nDayal takes ship back to Thor-Thougah with his daughters, seeking sires for them. En route, it emerges that Narda's brain and Myrtha's ovaries have sustained tumours that will rapidly kill them both. With their consent, Dayal has the robots graft Narda's lower body to Myrtha's upper body. Upon arrival in Thor-Thougah, the resulting being confronts the sole survivor of the Technos' assault on the asteroid. He agrees to impregnate her followed by a fight to the death, but when bested he takes his own life, asking to be remembered by his unborn progeny.\n\nBerard concludes his tale by revealing that he is the child of that union, and he welcomed Othon (a fugitive pirate) seeing in him a trace of his own father. Othon is now ready to receive the mark of the Metabarons (the absorbed spirit of Gangez, worn as a mark on the chest) from his father-in-law.\n\nThe main saga of the Metabarons begins on Marmola, on which Berard's tribe export huge blocks of marble. The existence of the epiphyte has been kept secret by the Castakas for many generations, until its revelation to save the life of Othon von Salza, the son-in-law of Baron Berard. Soon after the revelation of the epiphyte, the planet's orbit becomes a battlefield, with the treacherous Imperial Black Endoguard as the victors. At the end of the war, Othon and his son Bari are the only survivors of the Castaka tribe. The Imperial couple, rulers of the known galaxy, are astonished by the achievement of Othon and reward him; and Othon shows them where the epiphyte was hidden in exchange for a percentage of the new market for anti-G Technology, a new planet to which their palace would be transferred, and a gift for his son intended to restore the joy lost with his crippled legs. The emperor gives him a horse, an extinct species revived by genetic manipulation; but pirates steal the horse. Othon kills them in retaliation, but accidentally kills his son, and is castrated by an attacker. Othon thereafter invests a large part of his fortune in the development of the first 'metabaronic' weapons and begins the tradition of cybernetic implants; and later becomes a mercenary of extraordinary skill and power. By the destruction of 100,000 pirate vessels, he and his descendants receive the title of Metabaron, and the Imperial couple promise a gift. Later, a woman named Honorata offers that she can bear Othon a child if he places a drop of his blood in her uterus. With this done, two of Othon's servants try to commit suicide, taking the pregnant Honorata with them; but Othon injects a potion of epiphyte into Honorata. This deprives his son, Aghnar von Salza, of weight; wherefore Othon lets Honorata train Aghnar by herself. When Aghnar is seven years old, he defeats a machine set against him by his father; whereupon Othon continues his training. Honorata then confesses she was ordered to give birth to a hermaphrodite instead of a son, by the priestesses of Shabda-Oud. For her disobedience, the Shabda-Oud attempt her destruction. Othon, to assure his son's ability to avenge her, orders Aghnar to fight him to the death, and Aghnar seizes the title of Metabaron for himself.\n\nThe sole human in a hostile world, Aghnar befriends a single primatoid, and becomes its tribe's messiah. He then seizes a Shabda-Oud cetacyborg battleship with which to carry out his vengeance; but is distracted by the Cetacyborg's crew's original objective: to capture Princess Oda, to use her for the sisterhood's breeding experiments. After a telepathic confrontation with the sisterhood, Oda suffers debilitating injuries; whereupon Honorata, kept alive by her own mental powers, transfers her own soul to Oda, who thereafter bears Aghnar a son. Disgusted by his incest, Aghnar attempts to kill his son, whom Oda/Honorata gives a cybernetic head to replace his own, for which he is called Steelhead. Steelhead later kills his parents. At his claim to the title of Metabaron, the Princess Doña Vicenta argues that his offspring must be unworthy of the title. Therefore, Steelhead assumes the disembodied head of Zaran Krleza, the last poet in the galaxy. United in body and head (but somehow maintaining individual personas), Steelhead and Zaran become Melmoth, which declares Doña Vicenta as the object of his affections, and resurrects her father, along with a rare, titanic tree (both destroyed by Steelhead himself). Doña Vicente consents to the match; but the clone of her father attempts to take her by force, whereupon Vicenta gives him her eyes. Mollified, he permits Melmoth and Doña Vicenta to marry; but Melmoth discovers that Tonto, his robotic servant, has replaced her eyes by cybernetic sensors, and shuns her. Eventually, he reverts to the form and character of Steelhead, and takes care of his bride. When unable to preserve both of Vicenta's twin children alive, Steelhead removes the male twin's brain and implant it in the female child, and trains the androgynous Aghora would be trained as a warrior, who eventually faces his/her father in single combat to become Metabaron. To conceive an heir, he/she extracts the male cells from his/her own brain and implants them in his/her womb, thereby creating a male clone: later the Nameless Metabaron who reigns in \"Incal.\"\n\nIn the last chapter of the saga (\"Sans-Nom, le dernier Méta-Baron\"), Lothar, the faithful android to whom Tonto is relating the Metabaronic lore in the frame narration, is identified as Steelhead himself, kept alive by his conversion to a robotic existence. Recovering his personality, but not his full memories, after a brief confrontation in which he gives Nameless the iconic scarring in his eyebrow, he allies himself with a vampiric creature to enact his vengeance upon his descendant. Ultimately, he repents; whereupon Nameless has himself sterilized, and remains in self-pity until the Spirit of the Castaka family, embodied by the mark on his chest, prompts Nameless to become a force for good, protecting life whenever he can. With this new mission, the Metabaron becomes the unstoppable mercenary featured in the Incal.\n\nThe series has been published in French as follows:\n\n\nA special volume, containing interviews with Jodorowsky and Giménez as well as sketches, unseen art, and a short story concerning one of the Metabaron's ancestors, called \"La Maison des Ancêtres\" (The House of the Ancestors) was released in 2000.\n\nThis is a prequel to the original series. The artwork is by Das Pastoras because Juan Giménez is too busy with other projects.\n\nAnother spin-off by Travis Charest and Zoran Janjetov.\n\nSpin-off by Jerry Frissen, Valentin Secher and Niko Henrichon.\n\nAll the main French albums were reprinted in English in their original version by Humanoids. These include:\n\n\nHumanoids Publishing released 17 issues, published in 2000-2001. All were collected into censored trade paperbacks, with a fifth volume containing 4 short stories.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18588727", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18588727", "title": "Mr. Freeze", "text": "Mr. Freeze\n\nMr. Freeze (Victor Fries) is a fictional supervillain appearing in American comic books published by DC Comics, commonly as an adversary of the superhero Batman. Created by writer Dave Wood and artist Sheldon Moldoff, the character first appeared in \"Batman\" #121 (February 1959), where he was known as Mr. Zero. Mr. Freeze is one of Batman's most enduring enemies and belongs to the collective of adversaries that make up Batman's rogues gallery.\n\nIn the most common variation of his origin story, he is a former cryogenics expert in Gotham City who was involved in a laboratory accident while attempting to cure his terminally ill wife Nora Fries. The disaster lowered his body temperature to the point that he must wear a cryogenic suit in order to survive, and he utilizes a \"freeze gun\" that freezes its targets solid.\n\nMr. Freeze was played by George Sanders, Otto Preminger and Eli Wallach in the \"Batman\" television series, by Arnold Schwarzenegger in the 1997 film \"Batman & Robin\", and by Nathan Darrow on the television series \"Gotham\". He was voiced by Michael Ansara in the DC animated universe, by Clancy Brown in \"The Batman\", and by Maurice LaMarche in the \"\" video game franchise. IGN's list of the Top 100 Comic Book Villains of All Time List ranked Mr. Freeze as #67.\n\nOriginally called Mr. Zero, he was renamed and popularized by the 1960s \"Batman\" television series, in which he was played by several actors.\n\nNearly 30 years later, a television adaptation of Batman revitalized him once again. \"\" retold Mr. Freeze's origin in \"\", an episode by writer Paul Dini. The episode introduced his terminally ill, cryogenically frozen wife Nora, which explained his obsession with ice and need to build a criminal empire to raise research funds. This more complex, tragic character was enthusiastically accepted by fans, and has become the standard portrayal for the character in most forms of media, including the comic book series itself, which previously had the character casually killed off by the Joker. Freeze was resurrected in the comic after the episode aired.\n\nThe episode was seen as groundbreaking for a Saturday morning cartoon and helped set the tone for the rest of the series. This backstory was also made canon in the comics and has been the character's official origin in almost every incarnation of Batman until September 2011, when The New 52 rebooted DC's continuity.\n\nElements of this origin story were incorporated into the 1997 film \"Batman & Robin\", in which he was portrayed by Arnold Schwarzenegger.\n\nFrom the time of his first appearance in 1959 onwards, Mr. Freeze was portrayed as one of many \"joke\" villains (see also Killer Moth) cast as stock enemies of Batman. Originally called Mr. Zero, the producers of the 1960s \"Batman\" television series renamed him Mr. Freeze (and portrayed Batman addressing him as \"Dr. Schivel\"), and the name quickly carried over to the comic books. The three actors who portrayed Mr Freeze were George Sanders, Otto Preminger, and Eli Wallach.\n\nIn the Pre-\"Crisis\" continuity, it is explained that Mr. Freeze is a rogue scientist whose design for an \"ice gun\" backfires when he inadvertently spills cryogenic chemicals on himself, resulting in him needing subzero temperatures to survive.\n\nPost-\"Crisis\", Freeze was revamped using a similar backstory to the one created by Paul Dini for \"Batman: The Animated Series\". Dr. Victor Fries, Ph.D. (surname pronounced \"freeze\") was a brilliant cryogenicist. As a child, he was fascinated with cryonics, so he began freezing animals. His parents, horrified by his \"hobby\", sent him to a strict boarding school, where he was miserable and felt detached from humanity. In college, he met a woman named Nora, whom he fell in love with and ultimately married.\n\nA year and a half after Bruce Wayne becomes Batman, Nora contracts a fatal illness, so Fries begins developing a freeze ray for GothCorp in order to preserve her in cryo-stasis until a cure can be found. Fries' boss Ferris Boyle decides to tell the mob about the gun, leading Batman to create a team of specialists to help him do his job better. As Fries puts Nora in suspended animation, Boyle interrupts and tampers with the experiment, resulting in an explosion that kills Nora. Fries survives, but the chemicals in the freeze ray lower his body temperature to the point that he must wear a cryogenic suit in order to survive. He swears revenge on those responsible for the death of his wife (whom he talks to often), and becomes Mr. Freeze, the first supervillain Batman faces in this continuity. Eventually, however, Batman's operatives find Freeze, who shoots one of them with his freeze gun. However, Batman eventually apprehends him.\n\nFreeze's crimes tend to involve freezing everyone and everything he encounters so he never forges alliances with the other criminals in Gotham, preferring to work alone. On rare occasions he has worked with another member of Batman's rogues gallery, usually as an enforcer for Gotham's mob bosses, such as the Penguin or Black Mask. In one of his notable team-ups, Freeze constructs a cryogenic machine for Hush so that Hush might take revenge on Batman, Freeze's equipment allowing Hush to preserve Catwoman's surgically-removed heart to use as a means of threatening her life.\n\nDuring his time with the Secret Society of Super Villains, he fashions for Nyssa al Ghul a sub-zero machine in exchange for the use of her own Lazarus Pit. He attempts to restore Nora to life without waiting for the \"adjusting\" needed in the pool chemicals. However, she returns to life as the twisted Lazara, and escapes. She blames her husband for her plight, and she estranges herself from him.\n\nIn September 2011, The New 52 rebooted DC's continuity. In this new timeline, during the \"Night of the Owls\" crossover, the Court of Owls sends assassins known as Talons to kill 40 of the most important citizens of Gotham, including Mr. Freeze. The Red Hood, Starfire and Arsenal choose to save him, and subsequently remand him into Batgirl's custody.\n\n\"Batman Annual\" #1 introduces a new origin for Mr. Freeze. Here, Victor Fries' fascination with cryonics began when he was a boy and his mother fell through the ice of a frozen lake. The ice was able to keep her preserved long enough for help to arrive, thus sparking his lifelong obsession with the cold. It is later revealed that the accident left Fries' mother in constant pain, and Fries ended her suffering by pushing her into the same frozen lake. In this new origin, Nora was never Fries' wife. Her name was Nora Fields, a woman born in 1943. When Nora was 23, she was diagnosed with an incurable heart disease, so her family placed her in cryogenic stasis hoping that a cure would be found in the future. Fries, having written his doctoral thesis on Nora, took on a position as a cryogenic researcher and technician at Wayne Enterprises, the facility that housed Nora's body.\n\nEventually, he fell in love with Nora and became dedicated to finding a reliable method for slowly thawing cryogenic subjects. However, Bruce Wayne ordered the project to be shut down, as he began to feel uncomfortable with Fries' obsession with Nora. Furious, Fries hurled a chair at Wayne, who dodged the attack; the chair smashed into an array of cryonic chemical tanks, the contents of which sprayed onto Fries and transformed him into Mr. Freeze.\n\nThe Court of Owls uses Freeze's cryogenic-thaw formula to revive their Talons, and then they try to kill him. Freeze survives, but is captured by the Red Hood and sent to Arkham Asylum. He escapes shortly afterward and rearms himself with the Penguin's help. Freeze decides to kill Bruce Wayne and take Nora, whom he believes to be his wife, so that they can leave Gotham City behind forever. Infiltrating Wayne Enterprises, Freeze has a brief fight with Nightwing and Robin, but he subdues them. Then, Freeze goes to the penthouse, where he finds Batman and the frozen Nora. Batman defeats Mr. Freeze by injecting his suit with the thawing formula, which he had intended to use to revive Nora from suspended animation.\n\nDuring the \"Forever Evil\" storyline, Mr. Freeze appears as a member of the Secret Society of Super Villains at the time when the Crime Syndicate arrived from their world. The Scarecrow later visits Mr. Freeze to let him know of the war going on at Blackgate Penitentiary. The Man-Bats are able to bring the remaining Talons to Mr. Freeze after Man-Bat and Scarecrow steal them from Blackgate. Mr. Freeze and Clayface later encounter the Rogues when they land in their territory. Mr. Freeze tells Mirror Master II he is not interested in capitalizing on the bounty on their heads, only to use Weather Wizard to create optimal conditions for him to freeze Gotham. As the Rogues are fighting the two, Black Mask (alongside his False Face society) arrives to capture the Rogues to receive the bounty.\n\nIn the \"Watchmen\" sequel \"Doomsday Clock\", Mr. Freeze is among the villains that attend the underground meeting held by Riddler that talks about the Superman Theory. When Comedian crashes the meeting, Mr. Freeze's helmet is punctured by a bullet shot by an unseen combatant.\n\nLike most Batman villains, Mr. Freeze plans his crimes about a specific theme; in his case, ice, snow and cold. He freezes areas around him using special weapons and equipment, most notably a handheld \"freeze-gun\". His refrigeration suit grants him superhuman strength and durability, making him a powerful villain in Batman's rogues gallery.\n\nIn the \"Underworld Unleashed\" storyline, the demon Neron grants Mr. Freeze the ability to generate subzero temperatures, no longer needing his freeze-gun or refrigeration suit. However, after his encounter with Green Lantern, Donna Troy, and Purgatory in Central Park, he reverted to his original subzero biology. He then gained a new subzero armor and weaponry.\n\nMr. Freeze appears in the comic book adaptation of \"Smallville\", partnered with the Prankster of Intergang. He agrees to work for Intergang in order to fund Nora's treatment. Freeze is betrayed by Prankster, however, and is defeated by Batman and Green Arrow.\n\nIn \"Blackhawk\", Mr. Freeze appears as a robot that is controlled by Doctor Thurman.\n\nBased in the DC animated universe, Mr. Freeze is part of a group of ice-themed villains called the \"Cold Warriors\" that tried to overthrow a small African nation. The Cold Warriors appear in \"Justice League Adventures\" #12 (December 2002).\n\nBased in the DC Super Friends universe, Mr. Freeze is part of a group of ice-themed villains called the \"Ice Pack\" that encased a city in ice and snow. The Ice Pack appear in \"DC Super Friends\" #16 (August 2009).\n\nIn the alternate timeline of the \"Flashpoint\", Mr. Freeze attacks the S.T.A.R. Labs in Central City to find a cure for his wife Nora. However, Citizen Cold attacks and uses his cold gun to freeze Mr. Freeze's body. Mr. Freeze tries to escape on robotic legs, but Citizen Cold freezes him to death and tells him that Nora is dead. This version of Mr. Freeze is a friend of Fallout's, and pursues revenge against Citizen Cold for murdering him. It is later revealed that radiation produced by Fallout is the cure Mr. Freeze was searching for.\n\nDuring the Rotworld storyline where Swamp Thing traveled to an alternate Earth afflicted by a mutating plague Mr. Freeze was mentioned to be an inmate in Arkham, not making attempts to escape out of Batman's false claims of implanting him with explosives.\n\nIn the crossover comic, Mr. Freeze was mutated into a humanoid mutant polar bear by Shredder.\n\nVictor Fries appears in the 2017 series . In this series, Victor Fries has retired from his criminal lifestyle to focus on curing his wife's disease. It is later revealed that, due to his unique, cryogenically-dependent physiology, Fries's aging had been slowed considerably, and that his father was a member of the Nazi SS during the Second World War, but acted as a double agent, allowing America to stay one step ahead of Germany on the Scientific front. As a result of this, a massive freeze cannon was constructed beneath a lighthouse off the coast of Gotham City. The superweapon is discovered by Neo-Joker (the second Harley Quinn who felt that by taking pills to retain his sanity, Jack Napier was destroying the most beautiful part of himself), and is used to freeze most, if not all, of Gotham. Freeze is able to reverse the effects with the aid of Batgirl. It is also revealed that Fries had been contacted by Batman in an attempt to secure the villains aid to save the life of Alfred Pennyworth, but unfortunately their efforts were in vain.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nMr. Freeze also appears in several \"Batman\" video games:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8171625", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8171625", "title": "Peter LaTempa", "text": "Peter LaTempa\n\nPeter LaTempa (1904 - January 15, 1945) was a New York mobster and associate of the Genovese crime family, who later agreed to become a government witness against Vito Genovese. \n\nA local Brooklyn hoodlum, LaTempa was pressured to support the testimony of hitman Ernest \"The Hawk\" Rupolo in the government's case against Vito Genovese for the 1934 murder of gambler and Luciano crime family soldier Ferdinand \"The Shadow\" Boccia. Shortly after Genovese's escape to Sicily, LaTempa reportedly agreed to cooperate with the authorities because he believed that Genovese would never be prosecuted. \n\nHowever, in 1944, U.S. military police in Sicily arrested Genovese for dealing in black market goods, and his status as a fugitive was uncovered shortly thereafter. On January 8, 1945, federal authorities announced that Genovese had been repatriated to New York. LaTempa immediately went to the Brooklyn district attorney's office and demanded protective custody. As a result, the authorities placed LaTempa in Raymond Street Jail. Less than a week after Genovese's return, LaTempa was found dead in his cell after taking medication for his gallstones. An autopsy allegedly revealed that he had ingested enough poison \"..to kill eight horses.\" Those responsible for arranging LaTempa's murder by tampering with his medication were never apprehended. However, 'authorities were convinced that Genovese was behind the murder', as he was the one who stood most to gain from LaTempa's death. \n\nWith LaTempa's sudden death, there was no one to corroborate Rupolo's testimony in the Boccia murder case, and the jury was subsequently forced to acquit Genovese.\n\nThe presiding judge, Samuel Leibowitz, stated before the court: \n\nAfter applying for early release from prison, Rupolo himself would be found dead almost 20 years later, on August 24, 1964. He was recovered from Jamaica Bay, Queens with his hands bound and two concrete blocks attached to his legs. His murder was almost certainly in response to his having testified against Genovese.\n\n"}
{"id": "8890060", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8890060", "title": "Quiffin", "text": "Quiffin\n\nIn children's literature, the Quiffin is a mythic animal that resembles a white llama or a long-necked unicorn without a horn. \n\nQuiffins graze in the forests of Scandinavian countries, particularly forests near the Oresund separating Sweden from Denmark. Quiffins can fly, although they prefer to walk; quiffins can also swim over twelve miles if need be, although they are not fond of water. Quiffins were first described in Hans Peterson's book, \"Liselott och garaffen\", which won the 1962 Children's Book of the Year in Sweden and which was translated into English as \"Liselott and the Quiffin\".\n\nQuiffins are ordinarily shy, but they have several properties that endear them to children whom they choose to befriend. First and foremost, they think only good thoughts about their friends, and vice versa. Secondly, they are elegant and graceful creatures, and comfortable in many situations, whether standing in the rain, resting in a hastily built house, or swaying in the boughs of a tree into which they have flown. They are very obliging, and gladly perform tricks to amuse their friends. They are also very patient, always remembering their friends and always willing to comfort them, no matter how many years have passed since their last meeting. Finally, quiffins have cloven hooves and beautiful white fur that is warm and comforting even when wet.\n"}
{"id": "175217", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=175217", "title": "Rhizome", "text": "Rhizome\n\nIn botany and dendrology, a rhizome (, from \"mass of roots\", from \"cause to strike root\") is a modified subterranean plant stem that sends out roots and shoots from its nodes. Rhizomes are also called creeping rootstalks or just rootstalks. Rhizomes develop from axillary buds and grow horizontally. The rhizome also retains the ability to allow new shoots to grow upwards.\n\nA rhizome is the main stem of the plant. A stolon is similar to a rhizome, but a stolon sprouts from an existing stem, has long internodes, and generates new shoots at the end, such as in the strawberry plant. In general, rhizomes have short internodes, send out roots from the bottom of the nodes, and generate new upward-growing shoots from the top of the nodes.\n\nA stem tuber is a thickened part of a rhizome or stolon that has been enlarged for use as a storage organ. In general, a tuber is high in starch, e.g. the potato, which is a modified stolon. The term \"tuber\" is often used imprecisely and is sometimes applied to plants with rhizomes.\n\nIf a rhizome is separated each piece may be able to give rise to a new plant. The plant uses the rhizome to store starches, proteins, and other nutrients. These nutrients become useful for the plant when new shoots must be formed or when the plant dies back for the winter. This is a process known as vegetative reproduction and is used by farmers and gardeners to propagate certain plants. This also allows for lateral spread of grasses like bamboo and bunch grasses. Examples of plants that are propagated this way include hops, asparagus, ginger, irises, lily of the valley, cannas, and sympodial orchids. Some rhizomes which are used directly in cooking include ginger, turmeric, galangal, fingerroot, and lotus.\n\nStored rhizomes are subject to bacterial and fungal infections, making them unsuitable for replanting and greatly diminishing stocks. However, rhizomes can also be produced artificially from tissue cultures. The ability to easily grow rhizomes from tissue cultures leads to better stocks for replanting and greater yields. The plant hormones ethylene and jasmonic acid have been found to help induce and regulate the growth of rhizomes, specifically in rhubarb. Ethylene that was applied externally was found to affect internal ethylene levels, allowing easy manipulations of ethylene concentrations. Knowledge of how to use these hormones to induce rhizome growth could help farmers and biologists producing plants grown from rhizomes more easily cultivate and grow better plants.\n\nSome plants have rhizomes that grow above ground or that lie at the soil surface, including some \"Iris\" species, and ferns, whose spreading stems are rhizomes. Plants with underground rhizomes include gingers, bamboo, the Venus flytrap, Chinese lantern, western poison-oak, hops, and Alstroemeria, and the weeds Johnson grass, Bermuda grass, and purple nut sedge. Rhizomes generally form a single layer, but in giant horsetails, can be multi-tiered.\n\nMany rhizomes have culinary value, and some, such as \"zhe'ergen\", are commonly consumed raw.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53172318", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53172318", "title": "SS Argus", "text": "SS Argus\n\nThe SS \"Argus\" was a steel hulled ship lost on Lake Huron on November 9, 1913 during the Great Lakes storm of 1913. She was carrying a load of coal when she wrecked. She broke in two and sank with the loss of all 25 hands.\n\nPortions of the wreckage were found by a local doctor along the shoreline at Bayfield, Ontario in mid-November 1913. \n"}
{"id": "18036482", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18036482", "title": "Salish Sea human foot discoveries", "text": "Salish Sea human foot discoveries\n\nThe Salish Sea human foot discoveries refers to the discoveries of multiple detached human feet on the Pacific Northwest coasts of the Salish Sea in British Columbia, Canada, and Washington, United States. The first discovery occurred on August 20, 2007 on Jedediah Island in British Columbia. In the years since, multiple detached feet have been discovered on the coasts of numerous islands in British Columbia, as well as in the U.S. cities of Tacoma and Seattle.\n\nIn December 2017, \"The Guardian\" reported: \"In the past dozen cases, the provincial coroner’s office has ruled out foul play... All of the individuals either killed themselves or died accidentally, with their feet naturally coming apart from their bodies during decomposition, said the coroner. ... The ubiquitous presence of running shoes might explain some of the mystery; made with light but durable materials, the shoes both protect the foot from decomposition and act as a flotation device that pulls it to the surface.\"\n\nSuch discoveries can be dated back a century with the discovery of a leg in a boot on a Vancouver beach in 1887.\n\nAs of 6 May 2018, fourteen feet have been found in the Canadian province of British Columbia, and five in the US state of Washington.\n\nOf the 19 feet there are two matched pairs, one of these pairs was a woman who jumped from a bridge. Two other feet have been identified, one as belonging to a missing fisherman and the other of a depressed man who probably committed suicide. His identity was withheld on request of his family.\n\nThese foot discoveries are not the first ones on British Columbia's coast. One was found in Vancouver in 1887, leading to the place of discovery being called Leg-In-Boot Square. On 30 July 1914, \"The Vancouver Sun\" reported that recent arrivals from Kimsquit reported a human leg encased in a high boot was found on a beach near the mouth of the Salmon River (a previous name for the Dean River near Kimsquit, near the headwater of Dean Channel). It was thought the remains were from a man who had drowned on the river the previous summer. \n\nAnother \"human\" foot, discovered on June 18, 2008, on Tyee Spit near Campbell River on Vancouver Island, was a hoax. The hoax was a \"skeletonized animal paw\" which was put in a sock and shoe and then stuffed with dried seaweed. Royal Canadian Mounted Police launched an investigation into the hoax and an arrest could be made due to charges of public mischief.\n\nAfter the eleventh foot was found on August 31, 2011, several running shoes containing what police suspected was raw meat were found washed up on Oak Beach, British Columbia.\n\nThe series of discoveries has been called \"astounding\" and \"almost beyond explanation\", as no other body parts have turned up. The discoveries have caused speculation that the feet may be those of people who died in a boating accident or a plane crash in the ocean. One explanation is that some of the feet are those of four men who died in a plane crash near Quadra Island in 2005 and whose bodies have not been recovered, though one of the feet has been determined to be from a female. Foul play has also been suggested, although none of the first four feet showed tool marks. This does not rule out foul play, however; it is possible that the bodies could have been weighted down and disposed of, and the feet were separated due to natural decay.\n\nDetermining the origin of the feet is complicated because ocean currents may carry floating items long distances, and because currents in the Strait of Georgia are unpredictable. A foot may float as far as . Also, human feet have a tendency to produce adipocere (a soap-like substance formed from body fat), which makes it hard for forensic scientists to find clues. Under optimal conditions, a human body may remain intact in water for as long as three decades, meaning that the feet may have been floating around for years.\n\nAnother theory is that the feet belonged to people who died in the Asian tsunami on December 26, 2004. Richmond-based writer Shane Lambert said that many of the shoes found were manufactured and sold in 2004 or earlier, and that there could be other sources for the shoes or multiple sources. However, besides the dates when the shoes were manufactured, Lambert said ocean currents and their ultimate northward tendencies up the Pacific Ocean from part of the region that was hit by the 2004 tsunami.\n\nOne foot has been identified as belonging to a man who was depressed and was believed to have committed suicide. Another two feet were identified as belonging to a woman who committed suicide by jumping from the Pattullo Bridge () in New Westminster, B.C., in 2004. This suggests the feet could belong to other people who have jumped from the bridge .\n\nDecomposition may separate the foot from the body because the ankle is relatively weak, and the buoyancy caused by air either inside or trapped within a shoe would allow it to float away. According to Simon Fraser University entomologist Gail Anderson, extremities such as the hands, feet, and head often detach as a body decomposes in the water, although they rarely float.\n\nHowever, finding feet and not the rest of the bodies has been deemed unusual. Finding two feet has been given a \"million to one odds\" and has thus been described as \"an anomaly\". The finding of the third foot made it the first time three such discoveries had been made so close to each other. The fourth discovery caused speculation about human interference and, statistically, was called \"curious\".\n\nA newspaper article in February 2008 captured Jørn Lier Horst's attention and he began to write \"Dregs\"; while writing, the discovery of a fourth foot was made public.\n\nAfter the fifth foot was discovered the story had begun to receive increased international media attention. With major headlines from newspapers such as the Melbourne \"Herald Sun\", \"The Guardian\", and the \"Cape Times\" in South Africa, the story elicited much speculation about the cause of the mystery, originating from \"morbid fascination\" with this type of subject, as stated by one scientist who identifies remains of victims. On his late night talk show David Letterman questioned two of his audience members who were Canadian about the mystery.\n\n"}
{"id": "639610", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=639610", "title": "South American lungfish", "text": "South American lungfish\n\nThe South American lungfish (\"Lepidosiren paradoxa\") is the single species of lungfish found in swamps and slow-moving waters of the Amazon, Paraguay, and lower Paraná River basins in South America. Notable as an obligate air-breather, it is the sole member of its family Lepidosirenidae. Relatively little is known about the South American lungfish. Additional common names include American mud-fish and scaly salamanderfish. In Portuguese, it is also known as (), (), (), and ().\n\nThe immature lungfish is spotted with gold on a black background; in the adult, this fades to a brown or gray color. Its tooth-bearing premaxillary and maxillary bones are fused as in all Dipnoi. South American lungfish also share an autostylic jaw suspension (where the palatoquadrate is fused to the cranium) and powerful adductor jaw muscles with the extant Dipnoi. Like the African lungfishes, this species has an elongated, almost eel-like body. It may reach a length of . The pectoral fins are thin and thread-like, while the pelvic fins are somewhat larger, and set far back. The fins are connected to the shoulder by a single bone, which is a marked difference from most fish, whose fins usually have at least four bones at their base, and a marked similarity with nearly all land-dwelling vertebrates. The gills are greatly reduced and essentially non-functional in the adults.\n\nJuvenile lungfish feed on insect larvae and snails, while adults are omnivorous, adding algae and shrimp to their diets, crushing them with their heavily mineralized tooth-plates. The fish's usual habitats disappear during the dry season, so they burrow into the mud and make a chamber about down, leaving a few holes to the surface for air. During this aestivation, they produce a layer of mucus to seal in moisture, and slow their metabolism down greatly.\n\nWhen the rainy season begins, they come out and begin mating. The parents build a nest for the young, which resemble tadpoles and have four external gills. To enrich the oxygen in the nest, the male develops highly vascularized structures on his pelvic fins that release additional oxygen into the water. The young become air-breathing at about seven weeks. Juveniles have external threadlike gills very much like those of newts.\n"}
{"id": "54919713", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54919713", "title": "Terrorism in the British Indian Ocean Territory", "text": "Terrorism in the British Indian Ocean Territory\n\nThe British Indian Ocean Territory, sometimes known as the Chagos Archipelago has had many threats of occupation by various groups, especially the since the Depopulation of Chagossians from the Chagos Archipelago, as well as being a joint UK-US facility that is used in countering terrorism. The UK maintains there is a low risk of terrorism in this territory.\n\nIn 2008 it was exposed in TIME magazine by Lawrence Wilkerson that a secret War on Terror prison had existed on the island of Diego Garcia from 2002–2006. He claimed that Diego Garcia was used by the CIA for \"nefarious activities\". He said that he had heard from three US intelligence sources that Diego Garcia was used as \"a transit site where people were temporarily housed, let us say, and interrogated from time to time\" and, \"What I heard was more along the lines of using it as a transit location when perhaps other places were full or other places were deemed too dangerous or insecure, or unavailable at the moment\".\n\nIn June 2004, the British Foreign Secretary Jack Straw stated that United States authorities had repeatedly assured him that no detainees had passed in transit through Diego Garcia or were disembarked there.\n\nDiego Garcia was first rumoured to have been one of the locations of the CIA's black sites in 2005. Khalid Sheikh Mohammed is one of the \"high-value detainees\" suspected to have been held in Diego Garcia.\nIn October 2007, the Foreign Affairs Select Committee of the British Parliament announced that it would launch an investigation of continued allegations of a prison camp on Diego Garcia, which it claimed were twice confirmed by comments made by retired United States Army General Barry McCaffrey. On 31 July 2008, an unnamed former White House official alleged that the United States had imprisoned and interrogated at least one suspect on Diego Garcia during 2002 and possibly 2003.\n\nThe existence of the site was confirmed by US general Barry McCaffrey, and Swiss Senator Dick Marty. Also, Manfred Nowak, one of five of the United Nations Special Rapporteur on torture, says that credible evidence exists supporting allegations that ships serving as black sites have used Diego Garcia as a base. The human rights group Reprieve alleges that United States-operated ships moored outside the territorial waters of Diego Garcia were used to incarcerate and torture detainees.\n\nInmates included Mustafa Setmariam Nasar, and Riduan Isamuddin was held there before being transferred to Guantanamo Bay detention camp. The United Kingdom government, who lease the island to the US, denied any knowledge of the incident, saying that two prisoners had passed through Diego Garcia but the plane they were on had only stopped to refuel. Nasar's location is still unknown since his arrival on Diego Garcia was announced in Spanish newspaper \"El Pais\".\n\nOn December 9, 2014, the United States Senate Intelligence Committee published a 600-page unclassified summary of its 6,700 page secret report on the CIA's abuse of its secret prisoners.\nDavid Jones, writing in the \"Daily Mail\", expressed surprise that Diego Garcia went entirely unmentioned on every page of the unclassified summary, and speculated that pressure from UK security agencies caused the portions of the report that covered CIA prisoner facilities on the island to remain classified.\n"}
{"id": "1924251", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1924251", "title": "The Ghost in the Machine", "text": "The Ghost in the Machine\n\nThe Ghost in the Machine is a 1967 book about philosophical psychology by Arthur Koestler. The title is a phrase (see ghost in the machine) coined by the Oxford philosopher Gilbert Ryle to describe the Cartesian dualist account of the mind–body relationship. Koestler shares with Ryle the view that the mind of a person is not an independent non-material entity, temporarily inhabiting and governing the body. The work attempts to explain humanity's self-destructive tendency in terms of individual and collective functioning, philosophy, and overarching, cyclical political–historical dynamics, peaking in the nuclear weapons arena.\n\nIn an attempt to explain human violence, Koestler criticizes the dominant conceptions of psychology of his time (behaviorism) that postulate that human behaviors are subject to the selection of the fittest. For him this theory echoed the Darwinian conceptions of the evolution of species. Koestler refutes both theories. \n\nThe book contributes also to the longstanding debate surrounding the mind–body problem and focusing in particular on René Descartes's dualism, in the form elucidated by Ryle. Koestler's materialistic account argues that the personal experience of duality arises from what Koestler calls a \"holon\". The notion of a holon emerges from the observation that everything in the nature is both a whole and a part. It is true for atoms who are a whole in themselves, but also a part of a molecule, of atom who could be a whole and part of cell, of cells who are both an autonomous unity and part of an organism. It is also true for human beings who have an independent life and are part of social systems. Every holon is willing to express two contradictory tendencies : to express himself, and to disappear in something greater. For human, those tendencies lead to an error in the development : we create collectives units who are based on the oppression of some individuals and on inflated ego of others. This is for Koestler an error of transcendence that is reflected in a poor integration of our reptilian brain and cognitive brain. \n\nA superposition of forces manifests, at each bodily holon, as the outcome of an entire hierarchy of forces—ontogenetic, habitual, linguistic prescriptive, and social science—operating in a continuum of independent feedback and feedforward streams of a body extended to its larger environment. The streams are fed by the life signals of each and every group member, and this fully participative medley is the spirit of life one senses as a ghost; but this spirit is just a simplified output of a complex knowledge set; it is emergent from the complexity of the group's rules and strategies. He contrasts \"his\" basic approach to the mind–body problem with behaviorism's basic approach to the problem.\n\nFollowing the holon of humanity down to its roots, the work explains humanity's tendency toward self-destruction in terms of brain structure, philosophies, and its overarching, cyclical political–historical dynamics, reaching the height of its potential in the nuclear arms arena.\n\nOne of the book's central concepts is that as the human triune brain has evolved, it has retained and built upon earlier, more primitive brain structures. The head portion of the \"ghost in the machine\" has, as a consequence of poor, inadequate connections, a rich potential for conflict. The primitive layers can, and may, together, overpower rational logic's hold. This explains a person's hate, anger and other such emotional distress.\n\nIn \"\" (1978) Koestler continues the theories developed in \"The Ghost in the Machine\" and further elaborates on the concept of holarchy.\n\n"}
{"id": "5569756", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5569756", "title": "V1-morph", "text": "V1-morph\n\nAn V1-morph is an organism that changes in shape during growth such that its surface area is proportional to its volume to the power 1, so to its volume. In most cases both volume and surface area are proportional to length\n\nThe reason the concept is important in the context of the Dynamic Energy Budget theory is that food (substrate) uptake is proportional to surface area, and maintenance to volume. The surface area that is of importance is that part that is involved in substrate uptake.Since uptake is proportional to maintenance for V1-morphs, there is no size control, and an organism grows exponentially at constant food (substrate) availability.\n\nFilaments, such as fungi that form hyphae growing in length, but not in diameter, are examples of V1-morphs. Sheets that extend, but do not change in thickness, like some colonial bacteria and algae, are another example.\n\nAn important property of V1-morphs is that the distinction between the individual and the population level disappears; a single long filament grows as fast as many small ones of the same diameter and the same total length.\n\n"}
{"id": "7028277", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7028277", "title": "Veikko Aaltonen", "text": "Veikko Aaltonen\n\nVeikko Aaltonen (born 1 December 1955 in Sääksmäki, Finland) is a Finnish director, editor, sound editor, production manager and film and television writer and actor.\n\nAaltonen began his career in the mid-1970s working as a sound editor on various films. Early in his career he worked with Rauni Mollberg as co-writer on two of his films, \"Milka\" (1980) and \"The Unknown Soldier\" (1985).\n\nIn 1987 Aaltonen directed his first feature film, \"Tilinteko\", which he co-wrote with Aki Kaurismäki, who also produced the film. Five years later he directed a film that has been considered his primary breakthrough, \"The Prodigal Son\" (1992).\n\nAaltonen has also made documentaries and directed TV series.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34082948", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34082948", "title": "Vika oxygen generator", "text": "Vika oxygen generator\n\nVika or TGK is an oxygen generating system for spaceflight. It is a SFOG, or solid-fuel oxygen generator, a kind of chemical oxygen generator. It has been used on the retired Mir space station and the International Space Station. It was originally developed by Roscosmos to supplement the \"Elektron\" oxygen system on \"Mir\". A Vika module, also known as a \"candle\", contains about one liter of lithium perchlorate and can provide oxygen for one person for 24 hours.\n\nThe canister contains powdered sodium chlorate and powdered iron, which when combined burns to create enough heat and temperature to break down sodium chlorate into salt (sodium chloride) and oxygen.\n\nAfter being adopted for use on the ISS, it had the NASA name SFOG, but they also sometimes use the Russian acronym TGK.\n\nVika was used on Mir when more than three people were on board. Vika needs a supply of canisters to work, which must be flown into space. An example of this is Progress M-34, which carried 60 canisters to Mir in 1997 along with other cargo. If \"Vika\" and \"Elektron\" stopped working, the station would have to rely on a limited supply of bottled oxygen.\n\nIn February 1997 a Vika chemical oxygen generator failed on Mir. It caught fire and spewed a torch-like jet of a molten metal and sparks across one of the Mir space station modules, burning for around 14 minutes and blocking the escape route to the docked Soyuz spacecraft. The fire was eventually extinguished, and the crew was not harmed. A definitive cause of the accident was not determined because the fire destroyed the device. It was suspected that a torn piece of rubber glove worn during assembly likely contaminated the canister. Despite this incident, NASA decided it was still the best supplemental oxygen system available, and supported its use on the then-upcoming ISS. The US and Russia worked together to improve the safety of the system before using it on the new space station.\n\nA backup to the temperamental Elektron system used on both the ISS and \"Mir\" is the \"Vika\" solid-fuel oxygen generator (SFOG), which contains a replaceable cartridge – a thin-walled steel tube with a three-part block of oxygen-releasing mixture based on lithium perchlorate. Two parts are tablets of the chemical mixture and the third one is the igniter tablet with a flash igniter. The igniter is struck by a firing pin when the device is activated. One cartridge releases of oxygen and burns for 5–20 minutes at . The oxygen is cooled and filtered to remove dust and odours, and released into the space station atmosphere.\n\n"}
{"id": "27535150", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27535150", "title": "Warmed-over flavor", "text": "Warmed-over flavor\n\nWarmed-over flavor is an unpleasant characteristic usually associated with meat which has been cooked and then refrigerated. The deterioration of meat flavor is most noticeable upon reheating. As cooking and subsequent refrigeration is the case with most convenience foods containing meat, it is a significant challenge to the processed food industry. The flavor is variously described as \"rancid,\" \"stale,\" and like \"cardboard,\" and even compared to \"damp dog hair.\" Warmed-over flavor is caused by the oxidative decomposition of lipids (fatty substances) in the meat into chemicals (short-chain aldehydes or ketones) which have an unpleasant taste or odor. This decomposition process begins after cooking or processing and is aided by the release of naturally occurring iron in the meat.\n\nThe appearance of warmed-over flavor begins as lipids, primarily lipids from the cell membrane of cells in the meat, are attacked by oxygen. This process is aided by the release of iron from iron-containing proteins in the meat, including myoglobin and hemoglobin. The iron is released by the heat of cooking, or by mechanical grinding. The free iron then acts as a catalyst, or promoter, of oxidation reactions. The reactions break down some of the fats in the meat to form primary oxidation products. These chemicals are not directly responsible for the objectionable taste. Instead, they subsequently further decompose to secondary oxidation products including \"alcohols, acids, ketones, lactones and unsaturated hydrocarbons which produce the [warmed-over flavor].\" Many of these compounds, including pentanal, hexanal, pentylfuran, 2-pentylfuran, 2-octenal and 2,3-octanedione have a strong odor and can be tasted at concentrations as low as 1 part per billion.\n\nWarmed-over flavor can be prevented by the addition of preservatives to processed meat. Many of the preservatives are antioxidants, ranging from tocopherols (related to vitamin E) to plum juice to industrial additives such as butylated hydroxytoluene (BHT), butylated hydroxyanisole (BHA) and propyl gallate. Other preservatives such as sodium pyrophosphate and sodium hexametaphosphate may work by binding iron and preventing it from catalyzing the chemical reactions which lead to warmed-over flavor; as these compounds are generally more soluble in water than the fat-soluble antioxidant preservatives, they may be more readily used to prevent oxidative decomposition in meat. Nitrites, a curing agent for meat, may prevent the development of warmed-over flavor by preventing the release of iron during cooking.\n\n"}
{"id": "22319722", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22319722", "title": "Widowed Persons Service", "text": "Widowed Persons Service\n\nWidowed Persons Service is an American organization designed to provide support for widows and widowers by people who have themselves lost a spouse.\n\nAARP established Widowed Persons Service in 1973. As of 1998, WPS had a network of around 300 chapters.\n"}
{"id": "3173103", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3173103", "title": "Wrongful life", "text": "Wrongful life\n\nWrongful life is the name given to a legal action in which someone is sued by a severely disabled child (through the child's legal guardian) for failing to prevent the child's birth.\n\nTypically a child and the parents will sue a doctor or a hospital for failing to provide information about the disability during the pregnancy, or a genetic disposition before the pregnancy. Had the mother been aware of this information, it is argued, she would have had an abortion, or chosen not to conceive at all.\n\nHistorically, only parents could sue for their \"own\" damages incurred as a result of the birth of a disabled child (e.g., the mother's own pregnancy medical bills and cost of psychiatric treatment for both parents' emotional distress resulting from the realization that their child was disabled). This cause of action is known as wrongful birth. But the child could not sue for his or her own damages, which were often much more substantial, in terms of the cost of round-the-clock personal care and special education.\n\nIn four U.S. states the child is allowed to bring a wrongful life cause of action for such damages. In a 1982 case involving hereditary deafness, the Supreme Court of California was the first state supreme court to endorse the child's right to sue for wrongful life, but in the same decision, limited the child's recovery to special damages. This rule implies that the child can recover objectively provable economic damages, but cannot recover general damages like subjective \"pain and suffering\"—that is, monetary compensation for the entire experience of having a disabled life versus having a healthy mind and/or body.\n\nThe Supreme Court of California's 1982 decision, in turn, was based on the landmark California Court of Appeal decision in \"Curlender v. Bio-Science Laboratories\" (1980). The \"Curlender\" decision involved a child who was allegedly born with Tay-Sachs disease after the parents relied upon the defendants' representations about the reliability of their genetic tests in refraining from proceeding with amniocentesis.\n\nThe most famous passage from the \"Curlender\" opinion is as follows:\n\n\"Curlender\" was not the first appellate decision to authorize a cause of action for wrongful life—it noted that a 1977 decision of the intermediate appellate court of New York had taken the same position, and was promptly overruled by the highest court of that state a year later. However, \"Curlender\" stands as the first such appellate decision which was \"not\" later overruled.\n\nMost other jurisdictions, including New York, England and Wales, Ontario, and Australia, have refused to allow the wrongful life cause of action.\n\nIn Germany, the Federal Constitutional Court declared wrongful life claims unconstitutional. The court reasoned that such a claim implies that the life of a disabled person is less valuable than that of a non-disabled one. Therefore, claiming damages for one's life as such violates the human dignity principle codified in the first article of the German Basic Law.\n\nIn 2005, the Dutch Supreme Court fully upheld a wrongful life claim in the Netherlands' first wrongful life case ever.\n\nSince wrongful life suits are a relatively new application of human rights, doctors and scholars have not come to consensus regarding their place in medical ethics. Others have objected to wrongful life claims on conceptual grounds, including the question of whether there exist rights and duties with regards to non-existent persons.\n\n\nBelsky, Alan J., \"Injury as a Matter of Law: Is This the Answer to the Wrongful Life Dilemma?\", 22 U. Balt. L. Rev 185 (1993).\nhttp://www.bormanviolins.com/SC/belsky.htm\n\n"}
{"id": "3082159", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3082159", "title": "Yevgeny Miller", "text": "Yevgeny Miller\n\nEugen Ludwig Müller (, tr. ; 25 September 1867 – 11 May 1939), better known as Yevgeny Miller, was a Baltic German general and one of the leaders of the anticommunist White Army during and after the Russian Civil War (1917-1922). After the civil war he lived in exile in France. Kidnapped by the Soviet intelligence operatives in Paris in 1937, he was smuggled to Moscow, the USSR, and executed there in 1939.\n\nMiller was a career officer born to a Baltic German noble family in Dünaburg (now Daugavpils, Latvia). After he graduated from the General Staff Academy, he served with the Russian Imperial Guard. Between 1898 and 1907, he was a Russian military attaché in several European capitals, such as Rome, The Hague and Brussels. During the First World War, he headed the Moscow military district and the 5th Russian Army and was promoted to the rank of lieutenant general.\n\nAfter the February Revolution of 1917, Miller opposed \"democratization\" of the Russian army and was arrested by his own soldiers after he ordered them to remove red armbands.\n\nAfter the October Revolution of 1917, Miller fled to Archangelsk and declared himself Governor-General of Northern Russia. In May 1919, Admiral Kolchak appointed him to be in charge of the White Army in the region. In Archangelsk, Murmansk and Olonets, his anti-Bolshevik Northern Army was supported by the Triple Entente, mostly British forces. However, after an unsuccessful advance against the Red Army along the Northern Dvina in the summer of 1919, British forces withdrew from the region, and Miller's men faced the enemy alone.\n\nIn February 1920, General Miller with 800 refugees sailed from Archangelsk to Tromsø, Norway. Later, he moved to France and, together with Grand Duke Nicholas and Pyotr Nikolayevich Wrangel, continued his anticommunist activism.\n\nBetween 1930 and 1937, Miller served as chairman of the Russian All-Military Union, an organization of exiled former White Army officers and soldiers opposed to the Soviet Union. His niece, Nathalie Sergueiew, also fled to France and subsequently became an MI5 agent. As the ROVS chairman, Miller was not an influential figure, as he did not belong to the dominant clan in the ROVS, namely former members of the White Army of South Russia, nor the former ″Gallipoli campers″.\n\nOn 22 September 1937, NKVD agent and All-Military Union counter-intelligence chief Nikolai Skoblin led Miller to a Paris safe house, ostensibly to meet with two German Abwehr agents, who were in fact officers of the Soviet NKVD disguised as Germans. They drugged Miller, placed him in a steamer trunk and smuggled him aboard a Soviet ship in Le Havre. \n\nMiller had left behind a note to be opened in case he failed to return from the meeting. In it, he detailed his suspicions about Skoblin. French police launched a massive manhunt, but Skoblin fled to the Soviet embassy in Paris and eventually was smuggled to Barcelona, where the Second Spanish Republic refused to extradite him to France.\n\nHowever, the French authorities arrested Skoblin's wife, Nadezhda Plevitskaya, and a French court convicted her and sentenced her to 20 years in prison.\n\nThe NKVD successfully smuggled Miller back to Moscow, where he was tortured and summarily shot nineteen months later on 11 May 1939. According to NKVD General Pavel Sudoplatov, \"His kidnapping was a cause célèbre. Eliminating him disrupted his organization of Tsarist officers and effectively prevented them from collaborating with the Germans against us.\" Sudoplatov also notes that Western accounts of NKVD officer Leonid Eitingon having played a role in the abduction of Miller are false. \n\nCopies of letters written by Miller while imprisoned in Moscow are in the Dmitri Volkogonov papers at the Library of Congress.\n\nThe kidnapping was the subject of a book written by Anatoly Rybakov, \"The Fear\". It was also the basis of the French film \"Triple Agent\" (2004), directed by Éric Rohmer.\n\nGeneral Miller appears as General Fedchenko in Vladimir Nabokov's story \"The Assistant Producer\", in which he is betrayed by \"General Golubkov\".\n\nThe kidnapping of General Miller was fictionalized in Nikita Mikhalkov's award-winning film \"Burnt by the Sun\". In the film the character known as \"Mitya\" (Oleg Menshikov) is a former White Army officer turned NKVD agent. Posing as a pianist in Paris, Mitya is described as having delivered eight White Generals to the NKVD. All are described as having been kidnapped, returned to Moscow, and shot without trial. One of the Generals is given the name \"Weiner\".\n\n"}
