{"id": "24152482", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24152482", "title": "1998 World Monuments Watch", "text": "1998 World Monuments Watch\n\nThe World Monuments Watch is a flagship advocacy program of the New York-based private non-profit organization World Monuments Fund (WMF) and American Express to call to action and challenge government authorities responsible for important cultural resources to identify sites immediately at risk, and to stimulate public awareness of the tremendous need to preserve and create sustainable uses for significant heritage made by man.\n\nEvery two years, the program publishes a select list known as the Watch List of 100 Most Endangered Sites that is in urgent need of preservation funding and protection. The sites are nominated by public authorities, local preservation groups, and qualified individuals. An independent panel of international experts then select 100 candidates from these entries to be part of the Watch List, based on the significance of the site's overall significance, the urgency of its situation, the viability of action plans to save it, and the ability of a local constituency to sustainably maintain the site in the future with the means to do so. WMF and American Express award grants to sites included on the Watch List. In addition, the leverage from the listing spurs government agencies and local donors to allocate funds and take an active role in protecting the cultural landmark.\n\nThe 1998 World Monuments Watch List of 100 Most Endangered Sites was launched on September 8, 1997, by WMF President Bonnie Burnham.\n\nThe following countries/territories have multiple sites entered on the 1998 Watch List, listed by the number of sites:\n\nA. Numbers list only meant as a guide on this article. No official reference numbers have been designated for the sites on the Watch List.<br>\nB. Names and spellings used for the sites were based on the official 1998 Watch List as published.<br>\nC. The references to the sites' locations were based on the official 1998 Watch List as published.\n"}
{"id": "43557717", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43557717", "title": "Alice Gorman", "text": "Alice Gorman\n\nAlice Gorman (born 1964) FSA is an Australian archaeologist, heritage consultant, and lecturer, who is best known for pioneering work in the field of space archaeology and her Space Age Archaeology blog. Based at Flinders University, she is an expert in Indigenous stone tool analysis, but better known for her research into the archaeology of orbital debris, terrestrial launch sites, and satellite tracking stations. Gorman teaches modern material culture studies, cultural heritage management, and Australian stone tools. Dr. Gorman is also a founding member of the Archaeology, Science and Heritage Council of For All Moonkind, Inc., a nonprofit organisation developing and seeking to implement an international convention to protect human cultural heritage in outer space.\n\nGorman graduated from The University of Melbourne in 1986 with a B.A. (Hons) before working as an archaeological consultant in the Indigenous heritage management sector. She returned to study in the late 1990s and obtained a Ph.D. from The University of New England in 2001. Her doctoral thesis examined how archaeologists can identify tools used in body modification through wear and residue analysis. After graduation, she continued working as a heritage consultant until receiving a permanent academic position at Flinders University in 2005. Gorman continues to work in the Indigenous heritage management sector on short-term contracts.\n\nFrom an early age, Gorman wanted to be both an astrophysicist and an archaeologist. While she ended up pursuing a career in archaeology, she has reconciled the two by turning her research focus onto the archaeology of space exploration, or simply, space archaeology (for the use of satellite imagery to examine archaeological sites and landscapes, see remote sensing). In 2003, she took part in the first conference session on space archaeology at the Fifth World Archaeological Congress with John Campbell and Beth Laura O'Leary.\n\nSince the mid-2000s, she has produced a number of publications on space archaeology and is credited for pioneering the concept of space as a cultural landscape and the application of cultural significance assessment to \"space junk\". She has also considered the contribution of Indigenous people to global space exploration and the archaeological signatures of this interaction.\n\nGorman's space archaeology research includes the oldest satellite still in orbit, Vanguard 1, the Woomera and Kourou terrestrial launch sites, and the Orroral Valley NASA Tracking Station. In 2013, Gorman received recognition for her work on the archaeology of space when she was invited to present at TEDx Sydney.\n\nGorman is a member of the faculty of the International Space University, an assessor for the Australian Research Council, and a member of numerous space and archaeology organisations. She writes regularly for \"The Conversation\", where she details much of her space archaeology research for a general audience. Her work has been included in the 2013 Science Online anthology and the collection of Best Australian Science Writing from 2013 to 2017. \n\nIn 2016, Gorman was elected as a Fellow of the Society of Antiquaries. In 2017 she was awarded the Bragg UNSW Press Prize for Science Writing for her essay \"Trace fossils: The silence of Ediacara, the shadow of uranium\".\n"}
{"id": "50658366", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50658366", "title": "Appearance of corruption", "text": "Appearance of corruption\n\nThe Appearance of Corruption is a principle of law mentioned in or relevant to several SCOTUS decisions related to campaign finance in the United States.\n\nFor example:\n\n"}
{"id": "286903", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=286903", "title": "Book collecting", "text": "Book collecting\n\nBook collecting is the collecting of books, including seeking, locating, acquiring, organizing, cataloging, displaying, storing, and maintaining whatever books are of interest to a given collector. The love of books is \"bibliophilia\", and someone who loves to read, admire, and collect books is called a \"bibliophile\".\n\nBook collecting can be easy and inexpensive: there are millions of new and used books, and thousands of bookstores, including online booksellers such as Abebooks, Alibris, Amazon, and Biblio.com. Wealthy book collectors pursue great rarities such as the Gutenberg Bible, and Shakespeare's First Folio, books which are both famous and extremely valuable. Collectors of lesser means may collect works by a favorite author, first editions of modern authors, or books on a given subject. Book prices generally depend on the demand for a given edition, the number of copies available, and a book's condition. Some collectors join associations such as The Fine Press Book Association, which is aimed at collectors of modern fine printing. The Private Libraries Association also covers modern fine printing, but is much more general in its outlook.\n\nIn the ancient world, \"papyri\" and scrolls (the precursors of the book in codex form) were collected by both institutions and private individuals. In surviving accounts there are references to bibliophile book collectors in that era. Socrates was reported by the historian Xenophon to have criticized a rich young man seeking to outdo his friends by collecting the works of famous poets and philosophers. Seneca the Younger deplored ostentatious book collecting, asking: \"What is the use of possessing numberless books and libraries, whose titles their owner can hardly read through in a lifetime?\"\n\nIn 1344 the English bishop Richard de Bury wrote The Philobiblon in which he praised the love and appreciation of books. Philip the Good brought together a collection of \"about six hundred manuscripts in his possession at the height of his reign\", which was the largest private collection of his day.\n\nWith the advent of the printing press invented by Johannes Gutenberg in the 15th century, which resulted in cheaper and more abundant books, and with the contemporaneous economic, social and political changes of the Renaissance, book collecting received a great impetus. Jean Grolier, the Treasurer-General of France, was an important bibliophile and book collector of this period. Grolier owned a library of 3,000 volumes and was known for his love of the Latin classics and of richly decorated bookbindings. He was a patron of the Aldine Press that had been founded by the prominent Renaissance printer, typographer, editor and publisher, Aldus Manutius the Elder.\n\nDuring the Reformation many monastic libraries were broken up, and their contents often destroyed. There was an English antiquarian reaction to Henry VIII's dissolution of the monasteries. The commissioners of Edward VI plundered and stripped university, college, and monastic libraries; so to save books from being destroyed, those who could, such as Archbishop Matthew Parker and Sir Robert Cotton, began to collect them.\n\nBy the late 17th century, millions of printed books were in circulation and auctions devoted to books began to occur and printed catalogues devoted to books began to be issued by book dealers and by auction houses in Europe and America, leading to a growing popularity of book collecting with the increasingly literate public.\n\nWith the advent of the Romantic era in the 18th century and its focus on the past, book collectors began to show an interest in old books, antiquarian editions and manuscripts. This new emphasis was nourished by the flood of old books onto the market following the dissolution of monastic and aristocratic libraries during the French Revolution and the Napoleonic Wars.\n\nThe British Whig politician George John, 2nd Earl Spencer (1758-1834) collected tens of thousands of volumes. Strengths of his collection included first editions of the classics; works produced by important early presses, and notably an almost complete collection of Aldine editions; and many Bibles. In 1812 he founded the bibliophilic Roxburghe Club.\n\nSir Thomas Phillipps (1792-1872) collected 40,000 printed books and 60,000 manuscripts. He was \"the greatest collector of manuscript material the world has ever known\". His zealous collecting efforts, which were termed bibliomania by Thomas Frognall Dibdin, resulted in the preservation of much historical material, particularly manuscripts, that would otherwise have been destroyed.\n\nThe increasingly wealthy United States during the 19th century saw the appearance of \"titan\" book collectors such as the railroad magnate Henry Huntington and the financier and banker J. Pierpont Morgan.\n\nThere are millions of books, so collectors necessarily specialize in one or more genres or subgenres of literature. A reader of fiction, who enjoys Westerns, might decide to collect first editions of Zane Grey's novels. A lover of modern English poetry might collect the works of W H Auden. A Californian who prefers non-fiction might look for books about the history of the San Francisco Bay Area.\n\nIndividual interests may include:\n\n\nRelated collecting interests include collecting bookplates, autographs, and ephemera.\n\nBook prices generally depend on the demand for a given book, the number of copies available for purchase, and the condition of a given copy. As with other collectibles, prices rise and fall with the popularity of a given author, title, or subject.\n\nBecause of the huge number of books for sale, there is no single comprehensive price guide for collectible books. The prices of the copies listed for sale at the online bookseller sites provide some indication of their current market values.\n\nAs with other collectibles, the value of a book ultimately depends on its physical condition.\nYears of handling, moving, and storage take their toll on the dust jacket, cover, pages, and binding. Books are subject to damage from sunlight, moisture, and insects. Acid from the papermaking process can cause the pages to develop brown spots, called \"foxing\"; gradually turn brown, called \"tanning\"; and ultimately crumble.\n\nCommon defects include general wear; jacket/cover edge wear, scratches, and tears; the previous owner's written name, Bookplate, or label; soil and stains; dogeared pages; underlining, highlighting, and marginalia; water damage; torn hinges, endpapers and pages; and pages, illustrations, or whole signatures free of the binding, or missing entirely.\n\nA book in good condition should be a rectangular solid when at rest, whether upright or on its back, with the covers at right angles to the spine. If a book is out of square, usually from resting crooked on a shelf, or leans to the right or left when on its back, it is \"cocked\", or \"shelf-cocked\". If the covers bend in or flare out, usually from rapid humidity changes, a book is \"bowed\" (bent like a drawn bow). Thick hardbound books also tend to have their pages sag downward in the middle even if they are sitting level on a shelf.\n\nNew books are readily available from bookstores and online. Many bookstores specialize in out-of-print, used, antiquarian, rare and collectible books. Online booksellers, including Abebooks, Alibris, Amazon, and Biblio, encourage other stores and individuals to sell books through their websites, and charge a commission.\n\nAntique and collectible stores may have a few books for sale. Major auction houses sell quality collectible books, and local auction houses may sell books by the carton. Thrift shops and second-hand stores commonly have book sections. Other sources include estate, yard, garage, or rummage sales; and charity fund-raisers.\n\nAntiquarian book collecting may be roughly defined as an interest in books printed prior to 1900 and can encompass interest in 19th, 18th, 17th, 16th, and 15th-century books. Antiquarian book collectors are not exclusively interested in first editions and first printings, although they can be. European books created before 1455 are all hand-written and are therefore one-of-a-kind historical artifacts in which the idea of \"edition\" and \"printing\" is irrelevant. There is also an interest among antiquarians for books beautifully made with fine bindings and high quality paper. For many books printed before about 1770, the first edition is not always obtainable, either because of price and/or availability. Later editions/printings from an era of interest are still often desirable to the antiquarian collector as they are also artifacts.\n\nThere were many editions of Alexander Pope's translation of The Iliad and The Odyssey. The first edition of 1715-1720 is worth a small fortune whereas slightly later 18th-century editions are a lot less expensive but still garner premium prices. The John Ogilby 17th-century translations of Homer's The Iliad and The Odyssey garner hefty prices, but not as much as the first edition of the Pope translation. This may be in part due to a significant number of copies of Ogilby's first edition probably perished in the Great Fire of London of 1666.\n\nThe first English movable-type printer was Caxton in the late 15th century. Editions of his books from the 15th century are very rare. \nOccasionally, 16th-century editions similar to Caxton's books appear among antiquarian book dealers and auctions, often fetching very high prices. The last Shakespeare First Folio of 1623 (first edition of the collected works of William Shakespeare) garnered a record-breaking 5.5 million in 2006. Later 17th-century folios of William Shakespeare's works can still fetch about the price of a small house but are more readily available and relatively obtainable, whereas almost all extant copies of the First Folio are owned by libraries, museums or universities and thus are unlikely to appear on the market. For the antiquarian collector, how a particular book's production fits into a larger historical context can be as important as the edition, even if it may not be a first edition.\n\nAlso of interest are books previously owned by famous persons, or personages of high stature, such as someone from royalty or the nobility. Tracing the history of an antiquarian book's possession history, referred to as \"provenance\", can markedly affect the value of a copy, even if it is not desirable \"per se\". For example, a copy of a less-important 18th-century book known to have been owned by Voltaire would achieve a value many times its stand-alone market value, simply because it was once in Voltaire's possession. Previous owners of books often signed their copies or labelled them with Bookplates, and it is often not difficult to identify a prominent previous owner if the provenance is well documented. Books owned by well-known individuals that also have a connection with the author (often as a gift from the author with a written dedication to the recipient) are known as Association copies.\n\nThe American School Library is an example of a very rare multi-volume boxed set with works by many popular or famous authors. Apparently the only extant full set is owned by the Smithsonian Institution's National Museum of American History.\n\nThe history of book collecting in China dates back over two millennia. An important effort to collect books in China was made during the early Han Dynasty by the government, as many important books were burned during the Qin Dynasty. From then on, book collecting began to flourish in China, particularly after the invention of block printing during the early Tang Dynasty, with both imperial and private collections blooming throughout the country. However, the systematic study of book collecting began only during the Qing Dynasty. \n\n\nVirtual book collecting can be described as collecting books in a digital format (virtually) on a computer or other electronic device. A bibliophile may acquire ebooks by downloading them or copying from borrowed media, such as CDs and DVDs. However, this may violate copyright law, depending on the license under which the ebook was released. Ebooks acquired from Project Gutenberg and many similar free collections cause no violation as they have gone out of copyright, have been released under a Creative Commons license, or else are in the public domain.\n\n\n\nFor more modern accounts, see the series of books on book-collectors, book-collecting and \"bibliomania\" by Nicholas A. Basbanes:\n\nFollow husband and wife team Lawrence & Nancy Goldstone as they search for rare and collectible volumes, and explore real mysteries in the rare-book world, in:\n\nFor book collecting in China, see:\n\n"}
{"id": "36123551", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36123551", "title": "Bruce McFadgen", "text": "Bruce McFadgen\n\nBruce McFadgen (born 1943) is a New Zealand surveyor and archaeologist.\n\nMcFadgen qualified as a Land Surveyor at Otago University, and worked for the New Zealnd Department of Lands and Survey until 1968. He then completed a BA and MA in Anthropology at Otago, followed by a PhD in Geology at Victoria University in 1979 before working as a staff archaeologist for the New Zealand Historic Places Trust.\n\nMcFadgen was employed by the Department of Conservation from 1987 to 2003 when he took early retirement to take up the 2003 JD Stout Fellowship at the Stout Research Centre. He has served on the Royal Society of New Zealand’s Skinner Research Fund Committee since 1987, as President of the New Zealand Archaeological Association 1986-1988, and as editor of the journal of the New Zealand Institute of Surveyors.\n\nMcFadgen has over 70 refereed publications, including monographs and book chapters. He also authored the book:\n"}
{"id": "787669", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=787669", "title": "Caravaggisti", "text": "Caravaggisti\n\nThe Caravaggisti (or the \"Caravagesques\") were stylistic followers of the 16th-century Italian Baroque painter Caravaggio. His influence on the new Baroque style that eventually emerged from Mannerism was profound. Caravaggio never established a workshop as most other painters did, and thus had no school to spread his techniques. Nor did he ever set out his underlying philosophical approach to art, the psychological realism which can only be deduced from his surviving work. But it can be seen directly or indirectly in the work of Rubens, Jusepe de Ribera, Bernini, and Rembrandt. Famous while he lived, Caravaggio himself was forgotten almost immediately after his death. Many of his paintings were reascribed to his followers, such as \"The Taking of Christ\", which was attributed to the Dutch painter Gerrit van Honthorst until 1990. It was only in the 20th century that his importance to the development of Western art was rediscovered. In the 1920s Roberto Longhi once more placed him in the European tradition: \"Ribera, Vermeer, La Tour and Rembrandt could never have existed without him. And the art of Delacroix, Courbet and Manet would have been utterly different\". The influential Bernard Berenson stated: \"With the exception of Michelangelo, no other Italian painter exercised so great an influence.\"\n\nAt the height of his popularity in Rome during the late 1590s and early 17th century, Caravaggio's dramatic new style influenced many of his peers in the Roman art world. The first Caravaggisti included Mario Minniti, Giovanni Baglione (although his Caravaggio phase was short-lived), Leonello Spada and Orazio Gentileschi. In the next generation there were Carlo Saraceni, Bartolomeo Manfredi and Orazio Borgianni as well as anonymous masters such as the Master of the Gamblers. Gentileschi, despite being considerably older, was the only one of these artists to live much beyond 1620, and ended up as court painter to Charles I of England. His daughter Artemisia Gentileschi was also close to Caravaggio, and one of the most gifted of the movement. Yet in Rome and in Italy it was not Caravaggio, but the influence of Annibale Carracci, blending elements from the High Renaissance and Lombard realism, which ultimately triumphed. Other artists active in Rome, worth mentioning, include Angelo Caroselli, Pier Francesco Mola, Tommaso Salini and Francesco Buoneri. Giacinto Brandi was active mainly in Rome and Naples. Dutch painter David de Haen was active in Rome between 1615 and 1622.\nIn May 1606 after the killing of Ranuccio Tomassoni, Caravaggio fled to Naples with a death sentence on his head. While there he completed several commissions, two major ones being the \"Madonna of the Rosary\", and \"The Seven Works of Mercy\". His work had a profound effect on the local artists and his brief stay in Naples produced a notable school of Neapolitan Caravaggisti, including Battistello Caracciolo, Bernardo Cavallino, Carlo Sellitto, Massimo Stanzione, Francesco Guarino, Andrea Vaccaro, Cesare Fracanzano and Antonio de Bellis. Giacinto Brandi was active mainly in Rome and Naples. The Caravaggisti movement there ended with a terrible outbreak of plague in 1656, but at the time Naples was a possession of Spain and the influence of Caravaggism had already spread there.\nMarco Antonio Bassetti is known to have been in Rome in 1616, and may have arrived there two years earlier. In Rome he came under the influence of the paintings of Caravaggio and Orazio Borgianni. On his return to Verona he painted a St. Peter and Saints for the church of San Tomaso and a Coronation of the Virgin for Sant' Anastasia. He died from the plague in Verona in 1630. \n\nBernardo Strozzi, born and mainly active in Genoa and later Venice, is considered a principal founder of the Venetian Baroque style. In the 1620s Strozzi gradually abandoned his early Mannerist style in favor of a more personal style characterized by a new naturalism derived from the work of Caravaggio and his followers. The Caravaggist style of painting had been brought to Genoa both by Domenico Fiasella, after his return from Rome in 1617–18, and by followers of Caravaggio who spent time working in the city.\n\nItalian painter Biagio Manzoni was active in Faenza. Italian painter from Reggio Emilia Bartolomeo Schedoni, Daniele Crespi from Milan and Luca Cambiasi, also known as Luca Cambiaso and Luca Cangiagio, the leading artist in Genoa in the 16th century, often depicted brilliantly lit figures set against a dark background. Felice Boselli, active in Piacenza, used contrast Caravaggisti lighting for his still-lifes. Tanzio da Varallo (or simply il Tanzio) was active mainly in Lombardy and Piedmont, including the Sacro Monte at Varallo Sesia, where he worked contemporaneously with Pier Francesco Mazzucchelli (il Morazzone). The Italian painter and engraver Bernardino Mei worked in his native Siena and in Rome, finding patronage above all in the Chigi family.\n\nPietro Ricchi (or il Lucchesino), born in Lucca, also often depicted brilliantly lit figures set against a dark background (see St. Sebastian).\n\nMario Minniti was an Italian artist active in Sicily after 1606. He, at the age of 16, even posed for Caravaggio's painting Boy with a Basket of Fruit.\n\nThe Netherlands Institute for Art History lists 128 artists labelled \"Caravaggisten\". Dutch painter David de Haen was active in Rome between 1615 and 1622. Another artist worth mentioning is Paulus Bor, who initially painted rather Caravaggisti-like history paintings, but his works fast became marked by a classicism related to that of his townsman van Campen. Abraham Lambertsz van den Tempel is worth mentioning for his realism and contrasting lighting. Flemish born painter Frans Badens was active in Amsterdam. \n\nIn the early 17th century Catholic artists from the Netherlands travelled to Rome as students and were profoundly influenced by the work of Caravaggio. On their return to the north this group, known as the \"Utrecht Caravaggisti\", had a short-lived but influential flowering in the 1620s among painters like Hendrick ter Brugghen, Gerrit van Honthorst, Andries Both and Dirck van Baburen. The brief flourishing of Utrecht Caravaggism ended around 1630, when major artists had either died, as in the case of Baburen and Terbrugghen, or had changed style, like van Honthorst's shift to portraiture and history scenes informed by the Flemish tendencies popularized by Rubens and his followers. In the following generation the effects of Caravaggio, although attenuated, are to be seen in the work of Vermeer, Rembrandt, and Gerrit Dou's \"niche paintings\".\n\nRubens was likely one of the first Flemish artists to be influenced by Caravaggio. During the period 1600-1608, Rubens resided in Italy. He settled in Mantua at the court of Duke Vincenzo I Gonzaga but also spent time in Rome. During his stay in Rome in 1601 he became acquainted with Caravaggio’s work. He later made a copy of Caravagio's \"Entombment of Christ\" and recommended his patron, the Duke of Mantua, to purchase \"The Death of the Virgin\" (Louvre). Rubens was after his return to Antwerp instrumental in the acquisition of \"The Madonna of the Rosary\" (Kunsthistorisches Museum, Vienna) for the St. Paul's Church in Antwerp. During his stay in Italy Rubens broadened his interest in Caravaggio’s work to include the 1606 \"Supper at Emmaus in Milan\" (Pinacoteca di Brera) and the 1600 \"The Calling of St Matthew\" as well as the more recent work in the Santa Maria in Vallicella and the Basilica of Sant'Agostino. Although some of this interest in Caravaggio is reflected in his drawings during his Italian residence, it was only after his return to Antwerp in 1608 that his works show openly Caravaggesque traits such as in the \"\" (1608-1609) (Courtauld Institute of Art). However, the influence of Caravaggio on Rubens’ work would be less important than that of Raphael, Correggio, Barocci and the Venetians. Artists, who were influenced by Rubens, such as Pieter van Mol, Gaspar de Crayer and Willem Jacob Herreyns, also used certain stark realism and strong contrasts of light and shadow, common to Caravaggisti style. \n\nRubens' contemporary Abraham Janssens was another Flemish painter who travelled to Italy (from 1597 to 1602) where he became acquainted with the work of Caravaggio. His work after his return to Antwerp shows the influence of Caravaggio. The composition \"\" of 1609 derives its expressive power from the use of strong contrasts of light and shadow (chiaroscuro) as was pioneered by Caravaggio.\n\nIt is mainly the Flemish artists from the generation after Rubens coming on the art scene in the 1620s who were most influenced by Caravaggio. It can even be said that there was a Caravaggist craze in Flanders from about 1620 to 1640. The artists are often referred to as the Ghent Caravaggisti and the Antwerp Caravaggisti after the city in which they were principally active. There is, however, no discernible stylistic distinction between these two movements other than individual ones. Among the Ghent Caravaggisti can be listed Jan Janssens, Melchior de la Mars and Antoon van den Heuvel. The list of Antwerp Caravaggisti is significantly longer reflecting the importance of this city as the pre-eminent artistic centre of Flanders. They include Theodoor Rombouts, Gerard Seghers, Jan Cossiers, Adam de Coster and Jacques de l'Ange.\n\nWhat most of these artists shared in common is that they likely visited Italy where they had first-hand contact with the work of Caravaggio or his Italian and Dutch followers. The influence of Caravaggio and his followers on their work can be seen in the use of dramatic light effects and expressive gestures as well as the new subject matter such as card sharps, fortune tellers, the denial of St Peter, etc. Some of the artists focused on certain aspects of Caravaggio's oeuvre. For instance, Adam de Coster was referred to as the \"Pictor Noctium\" (painter of the nights) because of his preference for the use of stark chiaroscuro and the repeated motif of half-length figures illuminated by a candle which is covered.\n\nMany of these artists such as Rombouts, Cossiers and Seghers later abandoned their strict adherence to the Caravaggist style and subject matter and struck out in different directions often under the influence of the older generation of Flemish artists who had such a dominant influence on Flemish art in the 17th century, i.e. Rubens and van Dyck.\n\nOne of the first French artists to studio in Rome during the Caravaggio Years was Jean LeClerc, who studied under Saraceni during the early 17th century. Simon Vouet spent an extensive period of time in Italy, from 1613 to 1627. His patrons included the Barberini family, Cassiano dal Pozzo, Paolo Giordano Orsini and Vincenzo Giustiniani. He also visited other parts of Italy: Venice; Bologna, (where the Carracci family had their academy); Genoa, (where from 1620 to 1622, he worked for the Doria princes); and Naples. He absorbed what he saw and distilled it in his painting: Caravaggio's dramatic lighting; Italian Mannerism; Paolo Veronese's color and \"di sotto in su\" or foreshortened perspective; and the art of Carracci, Guercino, Lanfranco and Guido Reni. Vouet's success in Rome led to his election as president of the Accademia di San Luca in 1624. Despite his success in Rome, Vouet returned to France in 1627. Vouet's new style was distinctly Italian, importing the Italian Baroque style into France. Other French artists enamored by the new style included Valentin de Boulogne, who was living in Rome by 1620, and studied under Vouet and later Boulognes pupil Nicolas Tournier.\n\nGeorges de La Tour is assumed to have travelled either to Italy or the Netherlands early in his career. His paintings reflect the influence of Caravaggio, but this probably reached him through the Dutch \"Caravaggisti\" and other Northern (French and Dutch) contemporaries. In particular, La Tour is often compared to the Dutchman Hendrick Terbrugghen. Louis Finson, also known as Ludovicus Finsonius, was a Flemish Baroque painter, who also worked in France.\nFrancisco Ribalta became among the first followers in Spain of the tenebrist style. It is unclear if he directly visited either Rome or Naples, where Caravaggio's style had many adherents, although through its Naples connection Spain was probably already exposed to Caravaggisim by the early 17th century. His son Juan Ribalta, Vicente Castelló and Jusepe de Ribera are said to have been his pupils, although it is entirely possible that Ribera acquired his tenebrism when he moved to Italy. The style garnered a number of adherents in Spain, and was to influence the Baroque or Golden Age Spanish painters, especially Zurbarán, Velázquez and Murillo. Even the art of still life in Spain, the bodegón was often painted in a similar stark and austere style. Orazio Borgianni signed a petition to begin an Italianate academy of painting in Spain and executed a series of nine paintings for the Convento de Portacoeli, Valladolid, where they remain. Giovanni Battista Crescenzi was an Italian painter and architect of the early-Baroque period, active in Rome and Spain, where he helped decorate the pantheon of the Spanish kings at El Escorial. He rose to prominence as an artist during the reign of Pope Paul V, but by 1617 had moved to Madrid, and from 1620 on, he was active in El Escorial. Philip III of Spain awarded him the title of Marchese de la Torre, Knight of Santiago. His pupil Bartolomeo Cavarozzi was active in Spain.\n"}
{"id": "395748", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=395748", "title": "Communicative competence", "text": "Communicative competence\n\nCommunicative competence is a term in linguistics which refers to a language user's grammatical knowledge of syntax, morphology, phonology and the like, as well as social knowledge about how and when to use utterances appropriately.\n\nThe term was coined by Dell Hymes in 1966, reacting against the perceived inadequacy of Noam Chomsky's (1965) distinction between \"linguistic competence\" and \"performance\". To address Chomsky's abstract notion of competence, Hymes undertook ethnographic exploration of communicative competence that included \"communicative form and function in integral relation to each other\". The approach pioneered by Hymes is now known as the ethnography of communication.\n\nThe notion of communicative competence is one of the theories that underlies the communicative approach to foreign language teaching. At least three core models exist. The first and most widely used is Canale and Swain's model and the later iteration by Canale. In a second model, sociocultural content is more precisely specified by Celce-Murcia, Dornyei, and Thurrell in 1995. For their part, they saw communicative competence as including linguistic competence, strategic competence, sociocultural competence, actional competence, and discourse competence. A third model widely in use in federal language training in Canada is Bachman and Palmer's model.\n\nThe understanding of communicative competence has been influenced by the field of pragmatics and the philosophy of language, including work on speech acts.\n"}
{"id": "3872122", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3872122", "title": "David Fasold", "text": "David Fasold\n\nDavid Franklin Fasold (February 23, 1939 – April 26, 1998) was an United States Merchant Marine officer and salvage expert who is best known for his book \"The Ark of Noah\", chronicling his early expeditions to the Durupınar Noah's Ark site in eastern Turkey. Repudiating and then changing his views about the site, Fasold was a participant in a suit with Australian geologist and skeptic Ian Plimer against an Australian creationist group. The suit, dubbed the \"Monkey Trial II,\" was an important case in the debate between science and religion and its role in society .\n\nFasold was born in Chicago in 1939 and grew up in Wheaton, Illinois, son of Frank, an architect, and Ruth Fasold, who raised him as strict Plymouth Brethren. In 1957 he joined the United States Merchant Marine becoming an officer and traveling the world. He met his wife Anna Elizabeth Avila, from El Salvador, in San Jose, California, in the 1950s. After beginning a family he moved to Key West, Florida, where Fasold built up a respectable marine salvage company. In the 1970s and 1980s he assisted various marine treasure hunters, including Mel Fisher. He raised two sons, Nathan and Michael, before dying of cancer in Corvallis, Oregon, on April 26, 1998, financially broken from years of expeditions and research.\n\nAlways interested in the history of the Bible and Noah's Ark, Fasold studied pre-Christian accounts of the Deluge and came to believe that the ark would be found not on Mt. Ararat but somewhere to the southwest. In 1985, Fasold teamed up with Ron Wyatt to investigate the Durupınar site (located at approximately ), a boat-shaped mound site named after Turkish Army Captain İlhan Durupınar who identified the formation in a Turkish Air Force aerial photo while on a mapping mission for NATO in 1959.\n\nIn 1985, Fasold and Wyatt were joined by geophysicist John Baumgardner for the expedition recounted in Fasold's \"The Ark of Noah\". As soon as Fasold saw the site, he exclaimed that it was a ship wreck. Fasold had brought a state-of-the-art frequency generator, set on the wavelength for iron and searched the formation for internal iron loci. This technique was later compared to dowsing by the site's detractors. Fasold and the team measured the length of the formation as 538 feet, close to the 300 cubits of the Bible if the Egyptian cubit of 20.6 inches is used. Later measurements by others found it to be 515 feet, exactly 300 Egytpian cubits in length. Fasold believed the team had found the fossilized remains of the upper deck and that the original reed substructure has disappeared. In the nearby village of Kazan, so-called drogue stones that they believed were once attached to the ark were investigated.\n\nRon Wyatt and David Fasold were both featured on a 20/20 television special soon after their expedition. Charles Berlitz wrote of Fasold's searches in his 1987 book \"The Lost Ship of Noah\", also printing part of an extensive 1985 interview with Fasold on pages 157-161. Wyatt wrote a small booklet, presenting his evidence found at the site, including what he considered petrified wood from deck timbers, pitch, and metal rivets. Fasold took a different approach, concentrating on pre-biblical literature and, as a nautical engineer, recognized the likelihood that it was made, like other ancient large boats and rafts, of reeds. He concluded that the enigmatic \"gopher wood\" of Genesis 6:14 was in fact a covering of bitumen and reeds, and the words was related to \"kaphar\" or pitch . He also made the claim that there were two Dilmuns, one located on Bahrain and the original one in the Zagros mountains. In 1988, Fasold published his own book, \"The Ark of Noah\".\n\nIn \"The Ark of Noah\", Fasold took many fundamentalists and creationists to task for insisting that the ark was rectangular in shape, made of wood, and must have landed on Mount Ararat (when the Bible states \"the mountains of Ararat\"). He also critically examined and dismissed many previous ark sightings at Ararat. The exposure of his find in the media led to further expeditions to the site in the late 1980s and early 1990s. During this time, Wyatt supposedly discovered petrified wood and metal items, and exposed the remains of decayed rib timbers at the site. Fasold doubted many of Wyatt's claims during this time, and broke with Wyatt's interpretations. During this time, Fasold formed the Noahide Society and issued a newsletter called \"Ark-Update\". He also produced several audio and video tapes.\n\nDuring the 1990s, Fasold was caught between three opposing camps that derided his interest in the site. On one side were orthodox creationists who believed the ark could only lie on Mt. Ararat; the second camp included Wyatt and others who continued their research and reported significant discoveries; the third camp included skeptical geologists and biblical minimalists who called the site a hoax. After a few scientific expeditions to the Durupınar site that included drillings and excavation in the 1990s, Fasold began to have doubts that the Durupınar formation was Noah's ark. He visited the site with geologist Ian Plimer in September 1994, and in a subsequent interview noted his change of mind saying \"I believe this may be the oldest running hoax in history. I think we have found what the ancients said was the Ark, but this structure is not Noah's Ark.\" At other times he claimed that the site was only what the ancients \"believed\" was Ziusudra's 'ark of reeds'. In 1996 Fasold coauthored a paper with geologist Lorence Collins entitled \"Bogus 'Noah's Ark' from Turkey Exposed as a Common Geologic Structure\" that concluded the boat-shaped formation was a curious upswelling of mud that happened to look like a boat.\nIn April 1997 during his testimony in an Australian court case Fasold repudiated his belief in the Ark, and stated that he regarded the claim as \"absolute BS\".\n\nArk researchers such as David Allen Deal and Robert Michelson, and Australian friend and biographer June Dawes reported that before his 1998 death Fasold again claimed the Durupınar site to be the location of the ark. Dawes wrote:\n\nHe [Fasold] kept repeating that no matter what the experts said, there was too much going for the [Durupınar] site for it to be dismissed. He remained convinced it was the fossilized remains of Noah's Ark.\n\nIn 1986 Fasold, along with Ron Wyatt, was one of the first Americans to investigate the notion that Jabal al-Lawz in Saudi Arabia might be the Biblical Mount Sinai. During an illegal trek through the desert around the mountain, Wyatt and Fasold were arrested and detained for a short period. Former \"New York Times\" journalist Howard Blum wrote of Fasold's journeys in his 1998 book \"The Gold of Exodus\".\n\nIn 1997, Fasold was involved in an Australian case against a creationist named Allen Roberts who reproduced some of Fasold's artwork without permission. A co-plaintiff was Australian Humanist and skeptic Ian Plimer. Plimer sued Roberts's organization Ark Search, claiming that Roberts and Ark Search made false and misleading claims about the Durupinar site. Plimer argued that Robert's speech was not protected free speech, but instead he sued under the Fair Trading Act, claiming that Roberts was misleading the public. The case was promoted by the media around Australia and the world as a second Scopes Monkey Trial. Plimer's action failed; Judge Ron Sackville said \"Courts should not attempt to provide a remedy for every false or misleading statement made in the course of public debate on matters of general interest.\" Judge Sackville accepted that Roberts had infringed Fasold's copyrights, but Fasold described the award of $2,500 Australian dollars in damages as \"a slap in the face,\" pointing out that he had won more in two similar cases in the United States.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8596774", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8596774", "title": "El Baúl", "text": "El Baúl\n\nEl Baúl is a Pre-Columbian archaeological site in present-day Escuintla Department, Guatemala. El Baúl, along with the sites of Bilbao and El Castillo, is part of the Cotzumalhuapa Archaeological Zone. It was occupied during the prehistoric Formative stage of the Americas.\n\nThe El Baúl acropolis is located 4 km north of Santa Lucía Cotzumalguapa, above sea level, from the Pacific Ocean. Its southern acropolis complex was destroyed in 1997 by urban development and the main groups are now covered by sugar cane fields. The ballcourt is located north of the acropolis with several residential groups in between. It is united by two causeways. The site's geologic context is volcanic; it is located just south of an active stratovolcano, Fuego volcano.\n\nThe site contains monumental architecture in its acropolis as well as a probable sweatbath and obsidian workshops. Analysis of these deposits is particularly important for the study of the ancient obsidian industry. The P31 stratigraphic pit continued below these deposits to a depth of , revealing volcanic ash layers derived from the adjacent Fuego volcano. Obsidian debitage continued below these ash layers, suggesting that the area was used as a refuse deposit for a prolonged period.\n\nThe largest causeway is long and ranges from wide, joining the acropoli of Bilbao and El Baúl. Before entering El Baúl, the causeway ran across a large bridge over the Santiago River gorge. The foundation walls of the bridge, which most probably sustained a wooden structure, are still visible along a 3 span of the river course. An excavation carried out on the western side of the river gorge revealed two constructional stages for the causeway at this location, both of which date to the Late Classic period. Many monumental sculptures have been found along the causeways.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9842767", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9842767", "title": "Elizabeth J. Perry", "text": "Elizabeth J. Perry\n\nElizabeth J. Perry, FBA (Chinese name: , born September 9, 1948) is a distinguished United States scholar of Chinese politics and history in the Department of Government, Harvard University (United States) where she is Henry Rosovsky Professor of Government and Director of the Harvard-Yenching Institute. She is a fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, a corresponding fellow of the British Academy, a recipient of a Guggenheim Fellowship, and served as Director of Harvard's Fairbank Center for East Asian Research in 1999 to 2003 and as President of the Association for Asian Studies in 2007.\n\nBorn shortly before the communist revolution in mainland China to Episcopal missionary parents who were professors at St. John's University in Shanghai, Elizabeth Perry was raised in Tokyo, Japan on the campus of Rikkyo University (where her parents also taught). She later returned to the United States and attended Hobart and William Smith Colleges from which she graduated summa cum laude in 1969. In 1978, she received a Ph.D. in political science from the University of Michigan. She was an early member of the Committee of Concerned Asian Scholars.\nFor a number of years Perry taught at the University of Washington in Seattle.\n\nPerry's research focuses on the history of the Chinese revolution and its implications for contemporary politics. Her book, \"Shanghai on Strike: the Politics of Chinese Labor\" (1993) won the John K. Fairbank Prize from the American Historical Association. Her article \"From Mencius to Mao -- and Now: Chinese Conceptions of Socioeconomic Rights\" (2008) won the Heinz Eulau Prize from the American Political Science Association. Professor Perry received honorary doctorate degrees from Hobart and William Smith Colleges and from the Hong Kong University of Science and Technology. The Asian Studies Library at her undergraduate alma mater has been named in her honor. She also holds honorary professorships at eight major Chinese universities.\n\n"}
{"id": "674950", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=674950", "title": "Elocution", "text": "Elocution\n\nElocution is the study of formal speaking in pronunciation, grammar, style, and tone.\n\nIn Western classical rhetoric, elocution was one of the five core disciplines of pronunciation, which was the art of delivering speeches. Orators were trained not only on proper diction, but on the proper use of gestures, stance, and dress. (Another area of rhetoric, elocutio, was unrelated to \"elocution\" and, instead, concerned the style of writing proper to discourse.)\n\nElocution emerged as a formal discipline during the eighteenth century. One of its important figures was Thomas Sheridan, actor and father of Richard Brinsley Sheridan. Thomas Sheridan's lectures on elocution, collected in \"Lectures on Elocution\" (1762) and his \"Lectures on Reading\" (1775), provided directions for marking and reading aloud passages from literature. Another actor, John Walker, published his two-volume \"Elements of Elocution\" in 1781, which provided detailed instruction on voice control, gestures, pronunciation, and emphasis.\n\nWith the publication of these works and similar ones, elocution gained wider public interest. While training on proper speaking had been an important part of private education for many centuries, the rise in the nineteenth century of a middle class in Western countries (and the corresponding rise of public education) led to great interest in the teaching of elocution, and it became a staple of the school curriculum. American students of elocution drew selections from what were popularly deemed \"Speakers.\" By the end of the century, several Speaker texts circulated throughout the United States, including McGuffey's \"New Juvenile Speaker\", the \"Manual of Elocution and Reading\", the \"Star Speaker\", and the popular \"Delsarte Speaker\". Some of these texts even included pictorial depictions of body movements and gestures to augment written descriptions.\n\nThe era of the elocution movement, defined by the likes of Sheridan and Walker, evolved in the early and mid-1800's into what is called the scientific movement of elocution, defined in the early period by James Rush's \"The Philosophy of the Human Voice\" (1827) and Richard Whately's \"Elements of Rhetoric\" (1828), and in the later period by Alexander Melville Bell's \"A New Elucidation of Principles of Elocution\" (1849) and \"Visible Speech\" (1867).\n\nIn her recent book \"The Elocutionists: Women, Music, and the Spoken Word\" (University of Illinois Press, 2017), Marian Wilson Kimber addresses the oft-forgotten, female-dominated genre of elocution set to musical accompaniment in the United States.\n\nAn example of this can be seen in the Table of Contents of McGuffey's \"New Sixth Eclectic Reader\" of 1857:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20833291", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20833291", "title": "Engagé", "text": "Engagé\n\nFrom the 18th century, an engagé (, \"engagee\") was a French-Canadian man employed to canoe in the fur trade, usually as an indentured servant. He was expected to handle all transportation aspects of frontier river and lake travel: maintenance, loading and unloading, propelling, steering, portaging, camp set-up, navigation, interaction with indigenous people, etc. The term was also applied to the men who staffed the pirogues on the Lewis and Clark Expedition. Their role can be contrasted with the free, licensed \"voyageurs\", the independent merchant \"coureurs des bois\", as well as seafaring sailors.\n\nCan also refer to a person socially or politically engaged, especially in the arts and culture.\n"}
{"id": "21482288", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21482288", "title": "Equality of sacrifice", "text": "Equality of sacrifice\n\nEquality of sacrifice is a term used in political theory and political philosophy to refer to the perceived fairness of a coercive policy.\n\nJohn Stuart Mill noticed that citizens often view taxation laws as being fair, as long as taxation is also applied equally to everyone else in society. Political theorist Margaret Levi applied the term to the perceived fairness of conscription in democracies, to which citizens may consent as long as conscription is enforced as a universal duty – as opposed to elitist and exceptionalist policies, as it will sometimes occur in partial mobilization.\n\nThe term was also adopted by Lee Iacocca who, as the president of Chrysler, lowered his salary to less than a dollar a year before asking union members for radical wage cuts in order to deal with the company's financial difficulties. During the financial crisis of 2007–2010, Iacocca's example has often been mentioned in opposition to \"unconditional\" government bail-out of failing companies. In a letter to the leaders of the big three U.S. automakers, Senator Chuck Grassley said that before receiving a government bailout executives should follow the example of former Chrysler head Lee Iacocca and cut their own pay:\n\nSome economists believe that the minimum wage laws in the United States lead to less equality because young black males are less likely to be able to get a job when the minimum wage is increased; this inequality exists primarily because young black workers typically live in urban areas where the food and drink industry, who mainly pay their workers minimum wage, are prevalent.\n"}
{"id": "9841", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9841", "title": "Expressive aphasia", "text": "Expressive aphasia\n\nExpressive aphasia, also known as Broca's aphasia, is a type of aphasia characterized by partial loss of the ability to produce language (spoken, manual, or written), although comprehension generally remains intact. A person with expressive aphasia will exhibit effortful speech. Speech generally includes important content words, but leaves out function words that have only grammatical significance and not real-world meaning, such as prepositions and articles. This is known as \"telegraphic speech\". The person's intended message may still be understood but his or her sentence will not be grammatically correct. In very severe forms of expressive aphasia, a person may only speak using single word utterances. Typically, comprehension is mildly to moderately impaired in expressive aphasia due to difficulty understanding complex grammar.\n\nIt is caused by acquired damage to the anterior regions of the brain, such as the left posterior inferior frontal gyrus or inferior frontal operculum, also described as Broca's area (Brodmann area 44 and Brodmann area 45). It is one subset of a larger family of disorders known collectively as aphasia. Expressive aphasia contrasts with receptive aphasia, in which patients are able to speak in grammatical sentences that lack semantic significance, and generally also have trouble with comprehension. Expressive aphasia differs from dysarthria, which is typified by a patient's inability to properly move the muscles of the tongue and mouth to produce speech. Expressive aphasia also differs from apraxia of speech which is a motor disorder characterized by an inability to create and sequence motor plans for speech.\n\nBroca's (expressive) aphasia is a type of non-fluent aphasia in which an individual’s speech is halting and effortful. Misarticulations or distortions of consonants and vowels, namely phonetic dissolution, are common. Individuals with expressive aphasia may only produce single words, or words in groups of two or three. Long pauses between words are common and multi-syllabic words may be produced one syllable at a time with pauses between each syllable. The prosody of a person with Broca's aphasia is compromised by shortened length of utterances and the presence of self-repairs and disfluencies. Intonation and stress patterns are also deficient.\n\nFor example, in the following passage, a patient with Broca's aphasia is trying to explain how he came to the hospital for dental surgery and it may look like this:Yes... ah... Monday... er... Dad and Peter H... (his own name), and Dad... er... hospital... and ah... Wednesday... Wednesday, nine o'clock... and oh... Thursday... ten o'clock, ah doctors... two... an' doctors... and er... teeth... yah.The speech of a person with expressive aphasia contains mostly content words such as nouns, verbs, and some adjectives. However, function words like conjunctions, articles, and prepositions are rarely used except for “and” which is prevalent in the speech of most patients with aphasia. The omission of function words makes the person's speech agrammatic. A communication partner of a person with aphasia may say that the person's speech sounds telegraphic due to poor sentence construction and disjointed words. For example, a person with expressive aphasia might say \"Smart... university... smart... good... good...\"\n\nSelf-monitoring is typically well preserved in patients with Broca's aphasia. They are usually aware of their communication deficits, and are more prone to depression and outbursts from frustration than are patients with other forms of aphasia.\n\nIn general, word comprehension is preserved, allowing patients to have functional receptive language skills. Individuals with Broca's aphasia understand most of the everyday conversation around them, but higher-level deficits in receptive language can occur. Because comprehension is substantially impaired for more complex sentences, it is better to use simple language when speaking with an individual with expressive aphasia. This is exemplified by the difficulty to understand phrases or sentences with unusual structure. A typical patient with Broca's aphasia will misinterpret \"the man is bitten by the dog\" by switching the subject and object to “the dog is bitten by the man.”\n\nTypically, people with expressive aphasia can understand speech and read better than they can produce speech and write. The person's writing will resemble his or her speech and will be effortful, lacking cohesion, and containing mostly content words. Letters will likely be formed clumsily and distorted and some may even be omitted. Although listening and reading are generally intact, subtle deficits in both reading and listening comprehension are almost always present during assessment of aphasia.\n\nBecause Broca's area is anterior to the primary motor cortex which is responsible for movement of the face, hands, and arms, a lesion affecting Broca's areas may also result in hemiparesis (weakness of both limbs on the same side of the body) or hemiplegia (paralysis of both limbs on the same side of the body). The brain is wired contralaterally, which means the limbs on right side of the body are controlled by the left hemisphere and vice versa. Therefore, when Broca's area or surrounding areas in the left hemisphere are damaged, hemiplegia or hemiparesis often occurs on the right side of the body in individuals with Broca's aphasia.\n\nSeverity of expressive aphasia varies among patients. Some people may only have mild deficits and detecting problems with their language may be difficult. In the most extreme cases, patients may be able to produce only a single word. Even in such cases, over-learned and rote-learned speech patterns may be retained- for instance, some patients can count from one to ten, but cannot produce the same numbers in novel conversation.\n\nIn deaf patients who use manual language (such as American Sign Language), damage to the left hemisphere of the brain leads to disruptions in their signing ability. Paraphasic errors similar to spoken language have been observed; whereas in spoken language a phonemic substitution would occur (e.g. \"tagle\" instead of \"table\"), in ASL case studies errors in movement, hand position, and morphology have been noted. Agrammatism, or the lack of grammatical morphemes in sentence production, has also been observed in lifelong users of American Sign Language who have left hemisphere damage. The lack of syntactic accuracy shows that the errors in signing are not due to damage to the motor cortex, but rather are a manifestation of the damage to the language-producing area of the brain. Similar symptoms have been seen in a patient with left hemisphere damage whose first language was British Sign Language, further showing that damage to the left hemisphere primarily hinders linguistic ability, not motor ability. In contrast, patients who have damage to non-linguistic areas on the left hemisphere have been shown to be fluent in signing, but are unable to comprehend written language.\n\nIn addition to difficulty expressing oneself, individuals with expressive aphasia are also noted to commonly have trouble with comprehension in certain linguistic areas. This agrammatism overlaps with receptive aphasia, but can be seen in patients who have expressive aphasia without being diagnosed as having receptive aphasia. The most well-noted of these are object-relative clauses, object Wh- questions, and topicalized structures (placing the topic at the beginning of the sentence). These three concepts all share phrasal movement, which can cause words to lose their thematic roles when they change order in the sentence. This is often not an issue for people without agrammatic aphasias, but many people with aphasia rely heavily on word order to understand roles that words play within the sentence.\n\n\n\nThe most common cause of expressive aphasia is stroke. A stroke is caused by hypoperfusion (lack of oxygen) to an area of the brain, which is commonly caused by thrombosis or embolism. Some form of aphasia occurs in 34 to 38% of stroke patients. Expressive aphasia occurs in approximately 12% of new cases of aphasia caused by stroke.\n\nIn most cases, expressive aphasia is caused by a stroke in Broca's area or the surrounding vicinity. Broca's area is in the lower part of the premotor cortex in the language dominant hemisphere and is responsible for planning motor speech movements. However, cases of expressive aphasia have been seen in patients with strokes in other areas of the brain. Patients with classic symptoms of expressive aphasia in general have more acute brain lesions, whereas patients with larger, widespread lesions exhibit a variety of symptoms that may be classified as global aphasia or left unclassified.\n\nExpressive aphasia can also be caused by trauma to the brain, tumor, and cerebral hemorrhage by extradural hematoma.\n\nUnderstanding lateralization of brain function is important for understanding which areas of the brain cause expressive aphasia when damaged. In the past, it has been believed that the area for language production differs between left and right-handed individuals. If this were true, damage to the homologous region of Broca's area in the right hemisphere should cause aphasia in a left-handed individual. More recent studies have shown that even left-handed individuals typically have language functions only in the left hemisphere. However, left-handed individuals are more likely to have a dominance of language in the right hemisphere.\n\nLess common causes of expressive aphasia include primary autoimmune phenomenon and autoimmune phenomenon that are secondary to cancer (as a paraneoplastic syndrome) have been listed as the primary hypothesis for several cases of aphasia, especially when presenting with other psychiatric disturbances and focal neurological deficits. Many case reports exist describing paraneoplastic aphasia, and the reports that are specific tend to describe expressive aphasia. Although most cases attempt to exclude micrometastasis, it is likely that some cases of paraneoplastic aphasia are actually extremely small metastasis to the vocal motor regions.\n\nNeurdegenerative diseases may present with aphasia. Alzheimer's Disease may present with either fluent aphasia or expressive aphasia. There are case reports of Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease presenting with expressive aphasia.\n\nExpressive aphasia is classified as non-fluent aphasia, as opposed to fluent aphasia. Diagnosis is done on a case by case basis, as lesions often affect the surrounding cortex and deficits are highly variable among patients with aphasia.\n\nA physician is typically the first person to recognize aphasia in a patient who is being treated for damage to the brain. Routine processes for determining the presence and location of lesion in the brain include Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) and Computed Tomography (CT) scans. The physician will complete a brief assessment of the patient's ability to understand and produce language. For further diagnostic testing, the physician will refer the patient to a speech-language pathologist, who will complete a comprehensive evaluation.\n\nIn order to diagnose a patient who is suffering from Broca’s aphasia, there are certain commonly used tests and procedures. The Western Aphasia Battery (WAB) classifies individuals based on their scores on the subtests; spontaneous speech, auditory comprehension, repetition, and naming. The Boston Diagnostic Aphasia Examination (BDAE) can inform users what specific type of aphasia they may have, infer the location of lesion, and assess current language abilities. The Porch Index of Communication Ability (PICA) can predict potential recovery outcomes of the patients with aphasia. Quality of life measurement is also an important assessment tool. Tests such as the Assessment for Living with Aphasia (ALA) and the Satisfaction with Life Scale (SWLS) allow for therapists to target skills that are important and meaningful for the individual.\n\nIn addition to formal assessments, patient and family interviews are valid and important sources of information. The patient’s previous hobbies, interests, personality, and occupation are all factors that will not only impact therapy but may motivate them throughout the recovery process. Patient interviews and observations allow professionals to learn the priorities of the patient and family and determine what the patient hopes to regain in therapy. Observations of the patient may also be beneficial to determine where to begin treatment. The current behaviors and interactions of the patient will provide the therapist with more insight about the client and his or her individual needs. Other information about the patient can be retrieved from medical records, patient referrals from physicians, and the nursing staff.\n\nIn non-speaking patients who use manual languages, diagnosis is often based on interviews from the patient's acquaintances, noting the differences in sign production pre- and post- damage to the brain. Many of these patients will also begin to rely on non-linguistic gestures to communicate, rather than signing since their language production is hindered.\n\nCurrently, there is no standard treatment for expressive aphasia. Most aphasia treatment is individualized based on a patient's condition and needs as assessed by a speech language pathologist. Patients go through a period of spontaneous recovery following brain injury in which they regain a great deal of language function.\n\nIn the months following injury or stroke, most patients receive traditional treatment for a few hours per day. Among other exercises, patients practice the repetition of words and phrases. Mechanisms are also taught in traditional treatment to compensate for lost language function such as drawing and using phrases that are easier to pronounce.\n\nEmphasis is placed on establishing a basis for communication with family and caregivers in everyday life. Treatment is individualized based on the patient's own priorities, along with the family's input.\n\nA patient may have the option of individual or group treatment. Although less common, group treatment has been shown to have advantageous outcomes. Some types of group treatments include family counseling, maintenance groups, support groups and treatment groups.\n\nMelodic intonation therapy was inspired by the observation that individuals with non-fluent aphasia sometimes can sing words or phrases that they normally cannot speak. \"Melodic Intonation Therapy was begun as an attempt to use the intact melodic/prosodic processing skills of the right hemisphere in those with aphasia to help cue retrieval words and expressive language.\" It is believed that this is because singing capabilities are stored in the right hemisphere of the brain, which is likely to remain unaffected after a stroke in the left hemisphere. However, recent evidence demonstrates that the capability of individuals with aphasia to sing entire pieces of text may actually result from rhythmic features and the familiarity with the lyrics.\n\nThe goal of Melodic Intonation Therapy is to utilize singing to access the language-capable regions in the right hemisphere and use these regions to compensate for lost function in the left hemisphere. The natural musical component of speech was used to engage the patients' ability to produce phrases. A clinical study revealed that singing and rhythmic speech may be similarly effective in the treatment of non-fluent aphasia and apraxia of speech. Moreover, evidence from randomized controlled trials is still needed to confirm that Melodic Intonation Therapy is suitable to improve propositional utterances and speech intelligibility in individuals with (chronic) non-fluent aphasia and apraxia of speech.\n\nMelodic Intonation Therapy appears to work particularly well in patients who have had a unilateral, left hemisphere stroke, show poor articulation, are non-fluent or have severely restricted speech output, have moderately preserved auditory comprehension, and show good motivation. MIT therapy on average lasts for 1.5 hours per day for five days per week. At the lowest level of therapy, simple words and phrases (such as \"water\" and \"I love you\") are broken down into a series of high- and low-pitch syllables. With increased treatment, longer phrases are taught and less support is provided by the therapist. Patients are taught to say phrases using the natural melodic component of speaking and continuous voicing is emphasized. The patient is also instructed to use the left hand to tap the syllables of the phrase while the phrases are spoken. Tapping is assumed to trigger the rhythmic component of speaking to utilize the right hemisphere.\n\nFMRI studies have shown that Melodic Intonation Therapy (MIT) uses both sides of the brain to recover lost function, as opposed to traditional therapies that utilize only the left hemisphere. In MIT, individuals with small lesions in the left hemisphere seem to recover by activation of the left hemisphere perilesional cortex. Meanwhile, individuals with larger left-hemisphere lesions show a recruitment of the use of language-capable regions in the right hemisphere. The interpretation of these results is still a matter of debate. For example, it remains unclear whether changes in neural activity in the right hemisphere result from singing or from the intensive use of common phrases, such as \"thank you\", \"how are you?\" or \"I am fine.\" This type of phrases falls into the category of formulaic language and is known to be supported by neural networks of the intact right hemisphere.\n\nA pilot study reported positive results when comparing the efficacy of a modified form of MIT to no treatment in people with nonfluent aphasia with damage to their left-brain. A randomized controlled trial was conducted and the study reported benefits of utilizing modified MIT treatment early in the recovery phase for people with nonfluent aphasia.\n\nMelodic Intonation Therapy is used by music therapists, board-certified professionals that use music as a therapeutic tool to effect certain non-musical outcomes in their patients. Speech language pathologists can also use this therapy for individuals who have had a left hemisphere stroke and non-fluent aphasias such as Broca’s or even apraxia of speech.\n\nConstraint-induced aphasia therapy (CIAT) is based on similar principles as constraint-induced movement therapy developed by Dr. Edward Taub at the University of Alabama at Birmingham. Constraint-induced movement therapy is based on the idea that a person with an impairment (physical or communicative) develops a \"learned nonuse\" by compensating for the lost function with other means such as using an unaffected limb by a paralyzed individual or drawing by a patient with aphasia. In constraint-induced movement therapy, the alternative limb is constrained with a glove or sling and the patient is forced to use the affected limb. In constraint-induced aphasia therapy the interaction is guided by communicative need in a language game context, picture cards, barriers making it impossible to see other players' cards, and other materials, so that patients are encouraged (\"constrained\") to use the remaining verbal abilities to succeed in the communication game.\n\nTwo important principles of constraint-induced aphasia therapy are that treatment is very intense, with sessions lasting for up to 6 hours over the course of 10 days and that language is used in a communication context in which it is closely linked to (nonverbal) actions. These principles are motivated by neuroscience insights about learning at the level of nerve cells (synaptic plasticity) and the coupling between cortical systems for language and action in the human brain. Constraint-induced therapy contrasts sharply with traditional therapy by the strong belief that mechanisms to compensate for lost language function, such as gesturing or writing, should not be used unless absolutely necessary, even in everyday life.\n\nIt is believed that CIAT works by the mechanism of increased neuroplasticity. By constraining an individual to use only speech, it is believed that the brain is more likely to reestablish old neural pathways and recruit new neural pathways to compensate for lost function.\n\nThe strongest results of CIAT have been seen in patients with chronic aphasia (lasting over 6 months). Studies of CIAT have confirmed that further improvement is possible even after a patient has reached a \"plateau\" period of recovery. It has also been proven that the benefits of CIAT are retained long term. However, improvements only seem to be made while a patient is undergoing intense therapy. Recent work has investigated combining constraint-induced aphasia therapy with drug treatment, which led to an amplification of therapy benefits.\n\nIn addition to active speech therapy, pharmaceuticals have also been considered as a useful treatment for expressive aphasia. This area of study is relatively new and much research continues to be conducted.\n\nThe following drugs have been suggested for use in treating aphasia and their efficacy has been studied in control studies.\n\n\nThe most effect has been shown by piracetam and amphetamine, which may increase cerebral plasticity and result in an increased capability to improve language function. It has been seen that piracetam is most effective when treatment is begun immediately following stroke. When used in chronic cases it has been much less efficient.\n\nBromocriptine has been shown by some studies to increase verbal fluency and word retrieval with therapy than with just therapy alone. Furthermore, its use seems to be restricted to non-fluent aphasia.\n\nDonepezil has shown a potential for helping chronic aphasia.\n\nNo study has established irrefutable evidence that any drug is an effective treatment for aphasia therapy. Furthermore, no study has shown any drug to be specific for language recovery. Comparison between the recovery of language function and other motor function using any drug has shown that improvement is due to a global increase plasticity of neural networks.\n\nIn transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS), magnetic fields are used to create electrical currents in specified cortical regions. The procedure is a painless and noninvasive method of stimulating the cortex. TMS works by suppressing the inhibition process in certain areas of the brain. By suppressing the inhibition of neurons by external factors, the targeted area of the brain may be reactivated and thereby recruited to compensate for lost function. Research has shown that patients can demonstrate increased object naming ability with regular transcranial magnetic stimulation than patients not receiving TMS. Furthermore, research suggests this improvement is sustained upon the completion of TMS therapy. However, some patients fail to show any significant improvement from TMS which indicates the need for further research of this treatment.\n\nDescribed as the linguistic approach to the treatment of expressive aphasia, treatment begins by emphasizing and educating patients on the thematic roles of words within sentences. Sentences that are usually problematic will be reworded into active-voiced, declarative phrasings of their non-canonical counterparts. The simpler sentence phrasings are then transformed into variations that are more difficult to interpret. For example, many individuals who have expressive aphasia struggle with Wh- sentences. \"What\" and \"who\" questions are problematic sentences that this treatment method attempts to improve, and they are also two interrogative particles that are strongly related to each other because they reorder arguments from the declarative counterparts. For instance, therapists have used sentences like, \"Who is the boy helping?\" and \"What is the boy fixing?\" because both verbs are transitive- they require two arguments in the form of a subject and a direct object, but not necessarily an indirect object. In addition, certain question particles are linked together based on how the reworded sentence is formed. Training \"who\" sentences increased the generalizations of non-trained \"who\" sentences as well as untrained \"what\" sentences, and vice versa. Likewise, \"where\" and \"when\" question types are very closely linked. \"What\" and \"who\" questions alter placement of arguments, and \"where\" and \"when\" sentences move adjunct phrases. Training is in the style of: \"The man parked the car in the driveway. What did the man park in the driveway?\" Sentence training goes on in this manner for more domains, such as clefts and sentence voice.\n\nResults: Patients’ use of sentence types used in the TUF treatment will improve, subjects will generalize sentences of similar category to those used for treatment in TUF, and results are applied to real-world conversations with others. Generalization of sentence types used can be improved when the treatment progresses in the order of more complex sentences to more elementary sentences. Treatment has been shown to affect on-line (real-time) processing of trained sentences and these results can be tracked using fMRI mappings. Training of Wh- sentences has led improvements in three main areas of discourse for aphasics: increased average length of utterances, higher proportions of grammatical sentences, and larger ratios of numbers of verbs to nouns produced. Patients also showed improvements in verb argument structure productions and assigned thematic roles to words in utterances with more accuracy. In terms of on-line sentence processing, patients having undergone this treatment discriminate between anomalous and non-anomalous sentences with more accuracy than control groups and are closer to levels of normalcy than patients not having participated in this treatment.\n\nMechanisms for recovery differ from patient to patient. Some mechanisms for recovery occur spontaneously after damage to the brain, whereas others are caused by the effects of language therapy. FMRI studies have shown that recovery can be partially attributed to the activation of tissue around the damaged area and the recruitment of new neurons in these areas to compensate for the lost function. Recovery may also be caused in very acute lesions by a return of blood flow and function to damaged tissue that has not died around an injured area. It has been stated by some researchers that the recruitment and recovery of neurons in the left hemisphere opposed to the recruitment of similar neurons in the right hemisphere is superior for long-term recovery and continued rehabilitation. It is thought that, because the right hemisphere is not intended for full language function, using the right hemisphere as a mechanism of recovery is effectively a \"dead-end\" and can lead only to partial recovery.\n\nIt has been proven that, among all types of therapies, one of the most important factors and best predictors for a successful outcome is the intensity of the therapy. By comparing the length and intensity of various methods of therapies, it was proven that intensity is a better predictor of recovery than the method of therapy used.\n\nIn most individuals with expressive aphasia, the majority of recovery is seen within the first year following a stroke or injury. The majority of this improvement is seen in the first four weeks in therapy following a stroke and slows thereafter. However, this timeline will vary depending upon the type of stroke experienced by the patient. Patients who experienced an ischemic stroke may recover in the days and weeks following the stroke, and then experience a plateau and gradual slowing of recovery. On the contrary, patients who experienced a hemorrhagic stroke experience a slower recovery in the first 4–8 weeks, followed by a faster recovery which eventually stabilizes.\n\nNumerous factors impact the recovery process and outcomes. Site and extent of lesion greatly impacts recovery. Other factors that may affect prognosis are age, education, gender, and motivation. Occupation, handedness, personality, and emotional state may also be associated with recovery outcomes.\n\nStudies have also found that prognosis of expressive aphasia correlates strongly with the initial severity of impairment. However, it has been seen that continued recovery is possible years after a stroke with effective treatment. Timing and intensity of treatment is another factor that impacts outcomes. Research suggests that even in later stages of recovery, intervention is effective at improving function, as well as, preventing loss of function.\n\nUnlike receptive aphasia, patients with expressive aphasia are aware of their errors in language production. This may further motivate a person with expressive aphasia to progress in treatment, which would affect treatment outcomes. On the other hand, awareness of impairment may lead to higher levels of frustration, depression, anxiety, or social withdrawal, which have been proven to negatively affect a person's chance of recovery.\n\nExpressive aphasia was first identified by the French neurologist Paul Broca. By examining the brains of deceased individuals having acquired expressive aphasia in life, he concluded that language ability is localized in the ventroposterior region of the frontal lobe. One of the most important aspects of Paul Broca's discovery was the observation that the loss of proper speech in expressive aphasia is due to the brain's loss of ability to produce language, as opposed to the mouth's loss of ability to produce words.\n\nThe discoveries of Paul Broca were made during the same period of time as the German Neurologist Carl Wernicke, who was also studying brains of aphasiacs post-mortem and identified the region now known as Wernicke's area. Discoveries of both men contributed to the concept of localization, which states that specific brain functions are all localized to a specific area of the brain. While both men made significant contributions to the field of aphasia, it was Carl Wernicke who realized the difference between patients with aphasia that could not produce language and those that could not comprehend language (the essential difference between expressive and receptive aphasia).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "379262", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=379262", "title": "Field Museum of Natural History", "text": "Field Museum of Natural History\n\nThe Field Museum of Natural History, also known as The Field Museum, is a natural history museum in the city of Chicago, and is one of the largest such museums in the world. The museum maintains its status as a premier natural history museum through the size and quality of its educational and scientific programs, as well as due to its extensive scientific specimen and artifact collections. The diverse, high quality permanent exhibitions, which attract up to two million visitors annually, range from the earliest fossils to past and current cultures from around the world to interactive programming demonstrating today's urgent conservation needs. It is named in honor of its first major benefactor, Marshall Field.\n\nAdditionally, the Field Museum maintains a temporary exhibition program of traveling shows as well as in-house produced topical exhibitions. The professional staff maintains collections of over 24 million specimens and objects that provide the basis for the museum’s scientific research programs. These collections include the full range of existing biodiversity, gems, meteorites, fossils, as well as rich anthropological collections and cultural artifacts from around the globe. The Field Museum Library, which contains over 275,000 books, journals, and photo archives focused on biological systematics, evolutionary biology, geology, archaeology, ethnology and material culture, supports the Field Museum’s academic research faculty and exhibit development.\n\nThe Field Museum academic faculty and scientific staff engage in field expeditions, in biodiversity and cultural research on all continents, in local and foreign student training, in stewardship of the rich specimen and artifact collections, and work in close collaboration with public programming exhibitions and education initiatives.\n\nThe Field Museum and its collections originated from the 1893 World’s Columbian Exposition and the artifacts displayed at the fair. In order to house the exhibits and collections assembled for the 1893 Chicago World’s Fair for future generations, Edward Ayer convinced the merchant Marshall Field to fund the establishment of a museum. Originally titled the \"Columbian Museum of Chicago\" in honor of its origins, the Field Museum was incorporated by the State of Illinois on September 16, 1893, for the purpose of the \"accumulation and dissemination of knowledge, and the preservation and exhibition of artifacts illustrating art, archaeology, science and history.\"\nThe Columbian Museum of Chicago occupied the only building remaining from the World's Columbian Exposition in Jackson Park, the Palace of Fine Arts, which now houses the Museum of Science and Industry.\n\nIn 1905, the museum's name was changed from Columbian Museum of Chicago to \"Field Museum of Natural History\" to honor its first major benefactor, Marshall Field, and to reflect its focus on the natural sciences. During the period from 1943 to 1966, the museum was known as the Chicago Natural History Museum.\nIn 1921, the Museum moved from its original location in Jackson Park to its present site on Chicago Park District property near downtown. \nBy the late 1930s the Field emerged as one of the three premier museums in the United States, the other two being the American Museum of Natural History (AMNH, New York) and the National Museum of Natural History (Smithsonian Institution, Washington DC).\n\nThe Field Museum has maintained its reputation through continuous growth, expanding the scope of collections and its scientific research output, in addition to the its award-winning exhibitions, outreach publications, and programs. The Field Museum is part of Chicago’s lakefront Museum Campus that includes the John G. Shedd Aquarium and the Adler Planetarium.\n\nIn 2015, it became public that an employee had defrauded the museum of $900,000 over a seven-year period to 2014.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nOn May 17, 2000, the Field Museum unveiled \"Sue\", the most complete and best-preserved \"Tyrannosaurus rex\" fossil yet discovered. Sue is 40 feet (12.3 meters) long, stands 12 feet (3.66 meters) high at the hips and is 67 million years old. The fossil was named after the person who discovered it, Sue Hendrickson, and is commonly referred to as female, though the fossil's actual sex is unknown. The original skull is not mounted to the body due to the difficulties in examining the specimen 13 feet off the ground, and for nominal aesthetic reasons (the replica does not require a steel support under the mandible). An examination of the bones revealed that Sue died at age 28, a record for the fossilized remains of a \"T. rex\" until Trix was found in 2013..\n\nProfessionally managed and maintained specimen and artifact collections, such as those at the Field Museum of Natural History, are a major research resource for the national and international scientific community, supporting extensive research that tracks environmental changes, benefits homeland security, public health and safety, and serves taxonomy and systematics research. Many of Field Museum’s collections rank among the top ten collections in the world, e.g., the bird skin collection ranks fourth worldwide; the mollusk collection is among the five largest in North America; the fish collection is ranked among the largest in the world.\nThe scientific collections of the Field Museum originate from the specimens and artifacts assembled between 1891 and 1893 for the World Columbian Exposition. Already at its founding, the Field Museum had a large anthropological collection.\nA large number of the early natural history specimens were purchased from Ward’s Natural History Establishment in Rochester, New York. An extensive acquisition program, including large expeditions conducted by the museum’s curatorial staff resulted in substantial collection growth. During the first 50 years of the museum’s existence, over 440 Field Museum expeditions acquired specimens from all parts of the world. In addition, material was added through purchase, such as the Strecker butterfly collection in 1908 for example.\nExtensive specimen material and artifacts were given to the museum by collectors and donors, such as the Boone collection of over 3,500 East Asian artifacts, consisting of books, prints and various objects. In addition, \"orphaned collections\" were and are taken in from other institutions such as universities that change their academic programs away from collections-based research. For example, already beginning in 1907, Field Museum accepted substantial botanical specimen collections from universities such as University of Chicago, Northwestern University and University of Illinois at Chicago, into its herbarium. These specimens are maintained and continuously available for researchers worldwide. Targeted collecting in the US and abroad for research programs of the curatorial and collection staff continuously add high quality specimen material and artifacts; e.g., Dr. Robert Inger’s collection of frogs from Borneo as part of his research into the ecology and biodiversity of the Indonesian fauna.\nCollecting of specimens and acquisition of artifacts is nowadays subject to clearly spelled-out policies and standards, with the goal to acquire only materials and specimens for which the provenance can be established unambiguously. All collecting of biological specimens is subject to proper collecting and export permits; frequently, specimens are returned to their country of origin after study. Field Museum stands among the leading institutions developing such ethics standards and policies; Field Museum was an early adopter of voluntary repatriation practices of ethnological and archaeological artifacts.\n\nField Museum collections are professionally managed by collection managers and conservators, who are highly skilled in preparation and preservation techniques. In fact, numerous maintenance and collection management tools were and are being advanced at Field Museum. For example, Carl Akeley’s development of taxidermy excellence produced the first natural-looking mammal and bird specimens for exhibition as well as for study. Field Museum curators developed standards and best practices for the care of collections. Conservators at the Field Museum have made notable contributions to the preservation of artifacts including the use of pheromone trapping for control of webbing clothes moths.\nIn a modern collections-bearing institution, the vast majority of the scientific specimens and artifact are stored in specially designed collection cabinets, placed in containers made of archival materials, with labels printed on acid-free paper, and specimens and artifact are stored away from natural light to avoid fading. Preservation fluids are continuously monitored and in many collections humidity and temperature are controlled to ensure the long-term preservation of the specimens and artifacts. Field Museum was an early adopter of positive-pressure based approaches to control of environment in display cases, using control modules for humidity control in several galleries where room-level humidification was not practical. The museum has also adopted a low-energy approach to maintain low humidity to prevent corrosion in archaeological metals using ultra-well-sealed barrier film micro-environments. Other notable contributions include methods for dyeing Japanese papers to color match restorations in organic substrates, the removal of display mounts from historic objects, testing of collections for residual heavy metal pesticides, presence of early plastics in collections, the effect of sulfurous products in display cases, and the use of light tubes in display cases.\nConcordant with research developments, new collection types, such as frozen tissue collections, requiring new collecting and preservation techniques are added to the existing holdings.\n\nCollection management requires meticulous record keeping. Handwritten ledgers captured specimen and artifact data in the past. Field Museum was an early adopter of computerization of collection data beginning in the late 1970. Field Museum contributes its digitized collection data to a variety of online groups and platforms, such as: HerpNet, VertNet and Antweb, Global Biodiversity Information Facility or GBif, and others. All Field Museum collection databases are unified and currently maintained in KE EMu software system. The research value of digitized specimen data and georeferenced locality data is widely acknowledged, enabling analyses of distribution shifts due to climate changes, land use changes and others.\n\nDuring the World's Columbian Exposition, all acquired specimens and objects were on display; the purpose of the World’s Fair was exhibition of these materials. For example, right after opening of the Columbian Museum of Chicago the mollusk collection occupied one entire exhibit hall, displaying 3,000 species of mollusks on about 1,260 square feet. By 1910, 20,000 shell specimens were on display, with an additional 15,000 ‘in storage’.\n\nIn today’s museum, only a small fraction of the specimens and artifacts are publicly displayed. The vast majority of specimens and artifacts are used by a wide range of people in the museum and around the world. Field Museum curatorial faculty and their graduate students and postdoctoral trainees use the collections in their research and in training e.g., in formal high school and undergraduate training programs. Researchers from all over the world can search online for particular specimens and request to borrow them, which are shipped routinely under defined and published loan policies, to ensure that the specimens remain in good condition. For example, in 2012, Field Museum’s Zoology collection processed 419 specimen loans, shipping over 42,000 specimens to researchers, per its Annual Report.\nThe collection specimens are an important cornerstone of research infrastructure in that each specimen can be re-examined and with the advancement of analytic techniques, new data can be gleaned from specimens that may have been collected more than 150 years ago.\n\nThe library at the Field Museum was organized in 1893 for the museum's scientific staff, visiting researchers, students, and members of the general public as an resource for research, exhibition development and educational programs. The 275,000 volumes of the Main Research Collections concentrate on biological systematics, environmental and evolutionary biology, anthropology, botany, geology, archaeology, museology and related subjects. The Field Museum Library includes the following collections:\n\nThis private collection of Edward E. Ayer, the first president of the museum, contains virtually all the important works in the history of ornithology and is especially rich in color-illustrated works.\n\nThe working collection of Dr. Berthold Laufer, America’s first sinologist and Curator of Anthropology until his death in 1934 consists of about 7,000 volumes in Chinese, Japanese, Tibetan, and numerous Western languages on anthropology, archaeology, religion, science, and travel.\n\nThe Photo Archives contain over 250,000 images in the areas of anthropology, botany, geology and zoology and documents the history and architecture of the museum, its exhibitions, staff and scientific expeditions. In 2008 two collections from the Photo Archives became available via the \"Illinois Digital Archives\" (IDA): The World's Columbian Exposition of 1893 and Urban Landscapes of Illinois. In April 2009, the Photo Archives became part of the Flickr Commons.\n\nThe Karl P. Schmidt Memorial Herpetological Library, named for Karl Patterson Schmidt is a research library containing over 2,000 herpetological books and an extensive reprint collection.\n\nThe Field Museum offers opportunities for informal and more structured public learning. Exhibitions remain the primary means of informal education, but throughout its history the Museum has supplemented this approach with innovative educational programs. The Harris Loan Program, for example, begun in 1912, reaches out to children in Chicago area schools, offering artifacts, specimens, audiovisual materials, and activity kits. The Department of Education, begun in 1922, offers classes, lectures, field trips, museum overnights and special events for families, adults and children. The Field has adopted production of the YouTube channel \"The Brain Scoop\", hiring its host Emily Graslie full-time as 'Chief Curiosity Correspondent'.\n\nThe Museum's curatorial and scientific staff in the departments of Anthropology, Botany, Geology, and Zoology conducts basic research in systematic biology and anthropology, besides its responsibility for collections management, and educational programs. Since its founding the Field Museum has been an international leader in evolutionary biology and paleontology, and archaeology and ethnography. It has long maintained close links, including joint teaching, students, seminars, with the University of Chicago and the University of Illinois at Chicago. Professional symposia and lectures, like the annual A. Watson Armour III Spring Symposium, present scientific results to the international scientific community and the public at large.\n\nThe museum publishes four peer-reviewed monograph series issued under the collective title \"Fieldiana\", devoted to anthropology, botany, geology and zoology. Monographs in these series are accessible at the Internet Archive.\n\nThe museum was used in a 1986 McDonald's commercial entitled \"Field Trip\".\n\nBoth exterior and interior views of the Field Museum of Natural History were used in the horror film \"\" (1978), the sequel to \"The Omen\" (1976). This included shots of the main hall, upper galleries and use of the front exterior for the final scene.\n\nThe Field Museum served as the setting for the horror film \"The Relic\" (1997).\n\nIt was used in several scenes for the Kevin Bacon movie \"She's Having a Baby\" (1988).\n\nA chase scene in the Keanu Reeves thriller \"Chain Reaction\" (1996) combined the Field Museum and the Museum of Science and Industry, located several miles to the south, into one museum.\n\nA portion of \"Dead Beat\" (2005), the seventh novel of \"The Dresden Files\" series, takes place at the museum. In one of the best-remembered moments of the series, Harry Dresden revives Sue the T-rex as a zombie and rides her into battle against a powerful necromancer.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8341465", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8341465", "title": "Focal character", "text": "Focal character\n\nIn any narrative, the focal character is the character on whom the audience is meant to place the majority of their interest and attention. They are almost always also the protagonist of the story; however, in cases where the \"focal character\" and \"protagonist\" are separate, the focal character's emotions and ambitions are not meant to be empathized with by the audience to as high an extent as the protagonist (this is the main difference between the two character terms). The focal character is mostly created to simply be the \"excitement\" of the story, though not necessarily the main character about whom the audience is emotionally concerned. The focal character is, more than anyone else, \"the person on whom the spotlight focuses; the center of attention; the man whose reactions dominate the screen.\"\n\nFor example, in Gaston Leroux's \"The Phantom of the Opera\", the protagonist is Christine Daaé (the audience is concerned mostly with her emotions, aims, and well-being), while the focal character is the \"Phantom\" (the audience is concerned mostly with the allure of his actions and reactions—though to some degree, later on, his emotions as well). In another example, in \"The Fall of the House of Usher\" by Edgar Allan Poe, the protagonist of the story is unnamed and does not have a great effect on the story, though he is present. He does not show much emotion throughout the story, and the reader is not as interested in him. The focal character of the story is Roderick Usher, whom the reader cares for more greatly and follows his condition and emotions more.\n\nThe focal character is also not necessarily the same thing as the viewpoint character, through whose perspective the story is seen. In Sir Arthur Conan Doyle's works of Sherlock Holmes, Watson is the viewpoint character, but the story revolves around Holmes, making him the focal character.\n"}
{"id": "9754320", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9754320", "title": "Gender Empowerment Measure", "text": "Gender Empowerment Measure\n\nThe Gender Empowerment Measure (GEM) is an index designed to measure of gender equality. GEM is the United Nations Development Programme's attempt to measure the extent of gender inequality across the globe's countries, based on estimates of women's relative economic income, participations in high-paying positions with economic power, and access to professional and parliamentary positions. It was introduced at the same time as the Gender-related Development Index (GDI) but measures topics like empowerment that are not covered by that index.\n\nIn 1995 in the \"Human Development Report\" commissioned by the United Nations Development Program set-out to create two new measurement indices for measuring development. Their aim was to add to the Human Development Index by way of including a gender dimension in the measure. They were created in order to rival the traditional income-focused measures of development such as the Gross Domestic Product (GDP) and the Gross National Product (GNP). Mahbub ul Haq, the first director of the Human Development Report Office, established several principles for the newly emerging measure including provisions that it had to be simple, had to be represented as a single number, had to be easily calculated, had to yield numbers that were internationally comparable, had to use numbers available on a yearly basis and had to use numbers that were easily interpretable. The resulting measures that were created were the Gender-related Development Index (GDI) and the Gender Empowerment Measure (GEM). The GEM, the more specialized of the two, is focused on indicating the relative empowerment of women in a given country.\n\nThe GEM was designed to measure \"whether women and men are able to actively participate in economic and political life and take part in decision-making\" (UNDP, 1995, p. 73)(Klasen 257). The GEM tends to be more agency focused (what people are actually able to do) than well-being focused (how people feel or fare in the grand scheme of things). The GEM is determined using three basic indicators: Proportion of seats held by women in national parliaments, percentage of women in economic decision making positions (incl. administrative, managerial, professional and technical occupations) and female share of income (earned incomes of males vs. females). The GEM is thought to be a valuable policy instrument because it allows certain dimensions that were previously difficult to compare between countries to come into international comparison.\n\nAs time passes, and these measures (the GDI and the GEM) are applied year after year, debate has arisen over whether or not they have been as influential in promoting gender-sensitive development as was hoped when they were first created. Some of the major criticisms of both measures includes that they are highly specialized and difficult to interpret, often misinterpreted, suffer from large data gaps, do not provide accurate comparisons across countries, and try to combine too many development factors into a single measure. The concern then arises that if these indices are not well informed, then their numbers might hide more than they reveal.\n\nIn terms of the GEM in particular, it is often said to represent an elite bias. It has been accused of measuring inequality only among the most educated and economically advantaged women and to focus mainly on the higher echelons of society. Women in grassroots organizations or at the local political level are not reflected, as well as work in lower levels of employment or in the informal sector, where many women in poor and developing countries are forced to seek employment. Furthermore, statistical information (data) is not very readily available for many of the indicators in the GEM. Not many less-developed countries collect reliable data on women's involvement in economic participation or labor involvement. As a result, the GEM is only reliable for very highly developed countries which do collect those statistics. It is also often argued that the number of women in parliament isn't an adequate indication of gender empowerment progress in a given country because many times feminists are considered political liabilities, and as such, female politicians do not always promote female interests. On the other hand, however, information regarding the number of parliamentary seats held by women is very easy to obtain, and very hard to alter, making it one of the more reliable sources of data in the measure. Another criticism of the GEM is its failure to address the issue of female control over their bodies and sexuality, which some argue is an important source of female empowerment and as such should be included in the measure. Additionally, the GEM has also been criticized for being far too dependent on the income component of the measure for determining the overall GEM score.\n\nMany suggestions have been made to alter the GEM. It has been suggested that the GEM be altered to include female representation in local government instead of only national government to make it less elite. Furthermore, it has been recommended that it should be revised to reflect female participation in political activities such as voting. Additionally, it has been recommended that a component regarding women's control over their own bodies and sexuality be added by measuring availability of birth control and the right to abortion. It has also been suggested that the GEM could be altered to include the proportion of females who are in extreme poverty as opposed to the proportion of parliamentary positions held by females. Lastly, it has been suggested that the GEM could be altered to include female levels of unemployment. Other suggestions include coming up with different ways to deal with the earned income part so as to make it a more straightforward mode of measurement.\n\nSuggestions have also been made to replace the GEM as a whole. One such suggestion is the calculation of separate Human Development Indexes for males and females which would provide a more straightforward picture of gender inequality (first suggested by Halis Akder in 1994). Another suggestion is to create a Gender-Gap Measure. In 2003 Charmes and Wieringa came up with the Women's Empowerment Matrix which considers six spheres (physical, socio-cultural, religious, political, legal and economic) as well as six levels: individual, household, community, state, regional, and global. The GEE is another suggested alternative to the GEM, this measure would include legal framework and protection of women's rights, as well as other important areas of women's empowerment that are overlooked by the GEM like women's movements, public attitudes, and equal rights. Lastly, in the 2010 Human Development Report, a new measuring mechanism was created entitled the Gender Inequality Index. This new experimental measure considers three dimensions: Reproductive health, empowerment, and labor market participation which aim to ameliorate some of the problems associated with the GEM.\n\n"}
{"id": "48562711", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48562711", "title": "Glirarium", "text": "Glirarium\n\nA glirarium is a terracotta container used for keeping edible dormice. These animals were considered a delicacy in the Etruscan period and later in the Roman Empire.\n\nThe container consists of a vessel, usually in terracotta, perforated to allow the passage of air, polished on the inside to prevent escape and with a lid to seal the top. Inside there are two or more shelves placed against the vessel walls and additional holes in the bottom of the vessel, generally more numerous than those on the sides. By inducing hibernation via darkness and confinement, the glirarium would cause the dormouse to fatten.\n\n"}
{"id": "30457591", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30457591", "title": "Gro Steinsland", "text": "Gro Steinsland\n\nGro Steinsland (born 1945) is a Norwegian scholar of medieval studies and history of religion and since August 2009 has been the Scientific Director of the Centre for Advanced Study at the Norwegian Academy of Science and Letters. \n\nSteinsland has most recently been a professor in the Institute for Linguistic and Nordic Studies at the University of Oslo, where she was also a member of the international interdepartmental Centre for Studies in the Viking Age and Nordic Middle Ages from its founding in 1993 until its dissolution. She has also taught in the Institute for Religious Studies at the University of Tromsø and has held guest faculty positions at Linacre College, Oxford University and at the University of Bonn. In 2007/08 she led the international interdisciplinary research group in \"The Power of the Ruler and the Ideology of Rulership in Nordic Culture 800-1200\" at the Centre for Advanced Study of the Norwegian Academy of Science and Letters, and since 1 August 2009 has been its Scientific Director.\n\nSteinsland specialises in pre-Christian religion, the associated Old Norse texts and mythology and the conversion of Scandinavia. At both Oslo and Tromsø, she made Norse religion a main subject within the history of religion programme. She is a member of the group for theology and religious studies in the Academy of Science and Letters. As a historian of religion, her publications take Norse paganism seriously and present it in a non-traditional light as having been still strong and vital when it encountered Christianity. In 2005 she published a wideranging introductory book, \"Norrøn religion\" (Norse religion), which presents the subject from the perspective of myth and praxis. In her influential 1989 PhD dissertation, \"Det hellige bryllup og norrøn kongeideologi: en analyse av hierogami-myten i Skírnismál, Ynglingatal, Háleygjatal og Hyndluljód\" (the sacred marriage and Norse ideology of kingship: an analysis of the myth of the \"hieros gamos\" in \"Skírnismál\", \"Ynglingatal\", \"Háleygjatal\" and \"Hyndluljóð\"), she reinterpreted the sacred marriage between a god and a giantess as a power myth legitimising rulership rather than a fertility myth; she specialises in the interpretation of written sources but has also made extensive use of archaeology and frequently takes an interdisciplinary approach. She has also emphasised the female aspect of pre-Christian religion, particularly in her 1997 book \"Eros og død i norrøne myter\" (Eros and death in Norse myths), in which she contrasts the sexualisation of death in, for example, references to drowning as being embraced by the sea goddess Rán with the post-conversion view of female sexuality as shameful.\n\nSteinsland has also readily written newspaper opinion articles, for example in 2000 taking the position that Thor Heyerdahl's Odin expedition to Azerbaijan was a \"charade\" orchestrated by Snorri Sturluson.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2054715", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2054715", "title": "Hugo Winckler", "text": "Hugo Winckler\n\nHugo Winckler (4 July 1863 – 19 April 1913) was a German archaeologist and historian who uncovered the capital of the Hittite Empire (Hattusa) at Boğazkale, Turkey.\n\nA student of the languages of the ancient Middle East, he wrote extensively on Assyrian cuneiform and the Old Testament, compiled a history of Babylonia and Assyrian that was published in 1891, and translated both the Code of Hammurabi and the Amarna letters. In 1904, he was appointed professor of Oriental languages at the University of Berlin.\n\nWinckler studied at the University of Berlin with Eberhard Schrader, founder of the German Assyriology. He was awarded his doctorate on 24 June 1886, for his work on the cuneiform texts of Sargon.\n\nWinckler became a lecturer at the University of Berlin in 1891. In 1904, he was appointed Extraordinary Professor of Oriental languages.\n\nWinckler began excavations at Boğazkale in 1906 with support from the German Orient Society together with Ottoman archeologist Theodore Makridi. His excavations revealed a stockpile of thousands of hardened clay tablets, many written in the hitherto unknown Hittite language, that allowed Winckler to draw a preliminary outline of Hittite history in the 14th and 13th centuries BC. Winckler continued excavations at the site until 1912, during which time his finds proved that the city was once the capital of a great empire. The tablets, known as the Bogazköy Archive were deciphered in 1924 by the Czech scholar Bedřich Hrozný.\n\nOtto Rank, in Art and Artist, describes Winckler as the \"rediscoverer of the ancient Oriental world picture in the fifth to sixth millennium B.C. Winckler's popular description: \"The whole universe is the great world, the macrocosm; its parts are small universes in themselves, microcosms. Such a *microcosm* is man, who is himself an image of the universe and a perfect being. But the great universe is likewise a man, and as it is `God,' God has human form. *`In his own image,'* therefore, was man created. This was still the belief of medieval medicine, which we know to have had (chiefly for the purpose of bleeding) a method of dividing up the human body according to the twelve signs of the zodiac (head, ram; neck, bull; arms, twins; and so on). On this `scientific' treatment of a patient was based... \"\n\nRank also wrote in \"Art and Artist\", regarding the significance of macroscosmic symbolism, \"In the first, and still the best, summary of this sort, which Winckler gives us in the chapter \"Myth, Legend, and Play\" of his popular account of the intellectual culture of ancient Babylon, the fundamental fact is established that the festivals connected with various games had all a seasonal character, with a definite calendar as their basis. In these festivals and the associated games, \"the events in heaven which the festival represents--for example, the death and rebirth of the deity, the victory over the powers of darkness, the dragon--are represented and played before the people\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2228132", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2228132", "title": "Invincible Super Man Zambot 3", "text": "Invincible Super Man Zambot 3\n\nThere once existed a planet named Beal, until it was wiped out by the mysterious entity known as Gaizok. The few remaining survivors escaped to Earth and split into three families, named Jin, Kamie, and Kamikita respectively. While attempting to start a new life, the collectively known \"Jin Family\" prepared for the inevitable Gaizok invasion on Earth and its giant mechanical beasts known as \"Mecha Boosts\". In order to defend their new home, they have built three vehicles which when combined form the mighty Zambot 3. The Jin Family must not only defend against Gaizok attacks, but also harsh criticisms from the very people they protect, who blame the Jin Family for the invasion in the first place.\n\nThe show begins as a typical Super Robot anime, but effort to putting realistic explanation to the \"strangeness\" seen in the precedent anime like \"why young children are chosen for the pilots\" etc., trial to depict civilians' sufferings under the invasion of aliens, and also with the cruel Human Bomb episodes middle of the show and the tragic end that most protagonists are killed, this work is regarded as the most important forerunner to the Real Robot anime.\n\nDirector Yoshiyuki Tomino's nickname, \"Kill 'Em All Tomino\" originates from this work.\n\nKappei Jin is the main character of Zambot 3 and pilot of the Zambird/Zambo Ace as well as controlling the primary functions of the titular robot. At 12 years old, Kappei is always eager to get into dangerous, high-risk situations, be it in battle against one of Gaizok's Mecha Boosts or against his rival Kōzuki. While Kappei is generally willing to go into battle, he will at times run into an emotional dilemma, generally stemming from civilian backlash against the Beal-Seijin. Kappei is also very athletic and a skilled martial artist. His best friends are his pet dog, Chiyonishiki and the girls Aki and Michi. Out of the entire team, Kappei is the only member to survive the final battle, as Uchūta and Keiko perish in a successful suicide attack, Chiyonishiki is killed when the Zambo Ace's right lower leg (which houses his cockpit) is destroyed, and the rest of the Jin Family dies when their ship burns up while they are giving Kappei time to escape.\n\nChiyonishiki is Kappei's pet dog akita inu and his faithful friend, who \"copilots\" Zambird alongside Kappei. Yoshinori Kanada of Studio Z misunderstood him as a robot dog, so there are some scenes which implicate his robotic nature.\n\nUchūta Kamie is 15 years old and pilot of the Zambull. While Uchūta is more mature than Kappei, he is about as eager to jump into battle, to the point that early on in the series Kappei and Uchūta would argue over who should be doing most of the fighting. Uchūta has to deal with a family that is not as devoted to the fight against Gaizok as himself. In the final battle, he and Keiko perish in a successful suicide attack.\n\nKeiko Kamikita is 14 years old and pilot of the Zambase. On the Kamikita's ranch, Keiko's hobbies are archery and horseback riding. While not as overtly aggressive as her male teammates, Keiko is if anything more willing to fight Gaizok, even at times attempting to pilot despite bodily injury. While Keiko has the strongest convictions of the team, she is also perhaps the most emotionally vulnerable. One of Keiko's most famous lines is, \"Please transform, and don't make a girl say 'please!'\" In the final battle, she and Uchūta perish in a successful suicide attack.\n\nHeizaemon Kamikita is Keiko's grandfather and commander of the King Beal.\n\nGengoroh Jin is Kappei's father.\n\nIchitaroh Jin is Kappei's older brother.\n\nShingo Kōzuki is 13 years old and the leader of a local gang of kids. Shingo (most frequently referred to as Kōzuki in the series) is essentially Kappei's rival, as both have tendencies to play in the most dangerous ways possible, e.g. fighting each other with anchors. Like Kappei, Shingo is a skilled martial artist. Shingo is a civilian and does not pilot any anti-Gaizok vehicles, but he is nevertheless thrust into the middle of the conflict due to both circumstances beyond his control and through his own actions. Shingo has a mother and a sister, Kaoru, of whom he is very protective.\n\nKaoru Kōzuki is Shingo's little sister. Unlike most others, Kaoru sees the Jin Family and particularly Kappei as good people.\n\nAki is 12 years old and can be seen as Kappei's \"love interest.\" Along with her best friend, Michi, Kappei frequently takes them along on his adventures, both in and out of Zambird. Aki is very sensible and confident, and will give Kappei a few harsh words if need be. At the same time, she is rather impressed by Kappei and the Zambird. The Zambot Archives book refers to Aki and Michi as the \"Kappei Fan Club.\"\n\nMichi is 12 years old and best friends with Aki. Michi, like Aki, tends to follow Kappei for one reason or another. Shyer and more reserved than Aki, Michi is usually worried about what will happen to them whenever Kappei does anything dangerous/stupid. The Zambot Archives book refers to Aki and Michi as the \"Kappei Fan Club.\"\n\nGaizok is the mysterious entity responsible for the destruction of the planet Beal. He seeks to do the same to Earth as he did to Beal, and perhaps other planets as well. No one knows Gaizok's true motives or even his true identity, including his subordinate, Killer the Butcher. In the last episodes, Gaizok is revealed to be an extremely evolved artificial intelligence, that was once created by an ancient, super-advanced civilization, with the task of destroying anyone that would display aggressive feelings. But, having turned mad with old age, Gaizok has come to the conclusion that every feelings are dangerous and must be suppressed, meaning the destruction of all sentient beings.\n\nKiller the Butcher is the most prominent villain in Zambot 3. Butcher is responsible for sending out Mecha Boosts to attack the Earth, particularly Japan. Butcher is a rather eccentric villain, and is seen constantly indulging in luxuries, be it eating endless amounts of meat, trying on jewelry, or attempting to sun bathe despite being inside of the Bandok. However, this extravagance does not make him any less ruthless. Butcher was sent to kill the humans, and that's exactly what he plans to do. Butcher's headquarters is the powerful mobile fortress, Bandok.\n\nGizzar is Butcher's right-hand man and field commander coming up with diabolical plots. Unlike Butcher he takes his job very seriously and is very thin, but he is still just as ruthless. Gizzar is often Butcher's whipping boy whenever something goes wrong.\n\nBarettar is a field commander nearly identical to Gizzar except for muscular and has scars all over his face.\n\nZubutar is the Bandok's chief designer of the Mecha-Boosts.\n\nSnai-Sworders are small snail-like reconnaissance robots used by Butcher to observe battles. They possess no offensive capabilities.\n\nBandok is the four-legged robot space fortress commanded by Butcher. For the first nine episodes it serves as only a headquarters near Earth's orbit where Mecha-Boosts are produced. In episode ten it comes to Earth and releases a series of Beltar Tanks to defend itself. After Mecha-Boost Tracid is destroyed, Zambot 3 attempts to attack only for a barrier to knock it away. In the next episode it is forced to flee back into space after being destroyed internally by Zambo Ace. Returns to Earth in episode 18 as the primary facility for converting humans into living bombs, keeping itself underwater at well over twelve hundred meters below the surface until Zambot 3 discovers its location. The head detaches itself and starts firing extremely large torpedoes at Zambot 3 from its mouth as well as stops the Moon Attack with an energy barrier. It retreats to space again in episode 19 after large quantities of damage and the energy barrier being destroyed by Zambot 3's Moon Attack and destruction of Mecha-Boost Gaidar. In episode 21 the Bandok uses well over two thousand space mines and homing missiles with eyeballs for nose cones called Gaizok Missiles to attack the King Beal as the Jin family approaches for the final battle. When King Beal is close enough, each arm of the Bandok fires a Bandok Cannon presumably just as powerful as the Ion Cannon. After 2nd Beal rams into its underside the main body is ultimately destroyed with the head being all that is left. In its final battle in episode 22 the head piloted by Butcher fires Bandok Missiles and eye lasers only for it to be finished off by the Ion Cannon.\n\nRed Knight Deathcain and Blue Knight Heldyne are the two knights of Gaizok sealed within the Bandok as its guardians. Both appearing in episode 22 after most of the Bandok was destroyed, Butcher is forced into battle by Gaizok with both of these death personified knights as a last resort. Both appear as European knights on horses. Each one is armed with a small round shield that fires lightning bolts that can be combined for an extremely bright flash that launches swords and maces, although Deathcain possesses a sword while Heldyne possesses a double sided lance.\n\nMecha-Boosts\n\n\nZambot 3, along with the King Beal, are the primary defenses against the Gaizok invasion. Zambot 3 is formed when the Zambird, Zambull and Zambase combine by a sequence called Zambot Combination. There is a separate cockpit for each pilot. In the final battle, the Zambull and Zambase are destroyed in Uchūta and Keiko's successful suicide attack, and the Zambo Ace is damaged beyond repair.\n\nHeight: 60 meters<br>\nWeight: 500 tons<br>\nOutput: 350,000 horsepower (260 MW)<br>\nEnergy source: Ion energy<br>\nMain weapons\n\nWeaknesses: Zambot 3 has very few glaring design flaws, but the most prominent one is that its armor begins to fail when in waters deeper than 7000 meters.\n\nPilot: Kappei Jin\n\nZambird is a high-speed aerial vehicle which is able to go faster than Japan Self-Defense Force fighter jets. Zambird can transform into the humanoid Zambo Ace. Zambo Ace's primary armament is its Zambo Magnum. Zambird forms primarily the head and the inner torso of Zambot 3 and has two cockpits, with Kappei in the left and Chūnishiki in the right (which ultimately leads to the latter's demise).\n\nMain Weapons\n\n'Zambird'\n\n'Zambo Ace'\n\nPilot: Uchūta Kamie\n\nZambull is a tank-like vehicle that has the most hitting power out of the three parts of Zambot 3. Zambull forms the outer torso and arms of Zambot 3, as evidenced by the large fists that sit on top of Zambull.\n\nMain Weapons\n\nPilot: Keiko Kamikita\n\nZambase functions as both an attack and support vehicle. In addition to possessing its own weapons for offense, Zambase also carries spare ammunition and Zambo Magnums for Zambo Ace, as well as remote cameras for reconnaissance. Zambase forms primarily the legs of Zambot 3, and is also responsible for overseeing balance and power distribution throughout the entire robot.\n\nMain Weapons\n\nZambot 3 has made an appearance in several \"Super Robot Wars\" titles.\n"}
{"id": "33062095", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33062095", "title": "Israel Studies Review", "text": "Israel Studies Review\n\nThe Israel Studies Review is a peer-reviewed academic journal published on behalf of the Association for Israel Studies by Berghahn Books and covering the study of all aspects of society, history, politics, and culture of Israel. The editor-in-chief is Yoram Peri.\n\nThe journal is abstracted and indexed in:\n"}
{"id": "31893078", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31893078", "title": "Jean Sendy", "text": "Jean Sendy\n\nJean Sendy (1910–1978) was a French writer and translator, author of works on esoterica and UFO phenomena. He was also an early proponent of the ancient astronaut hypothesis.\n\nHe wrote the 1968 book \"The moon: The key to the Bible\" in which he claimed the word \"Elohim\" mentioned in the Hebrew Genesis of the Bible, which is usually translated as God, should in fact be translated in the plural as \"Gods\" because the singular of the word \"Elohim\" is \"Eloah\". He claimed that the \"Gods\" were actually space travelers (an alien race of humanoids). Sendy believed that Genesis was factual history of ancient astronauts colonizing earth who became \"angels in human memory\". The book contains similar ideas to that of the UFO religion Raëlism.\n\nIn his 1969 book \"Those Gods who made Heaven and Earth\", Sendy claimed that space travelers 23,500 years ago arrived in the solar system in a large hollow sphere and seeded humanity.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "730257", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=730257", "title": "Judeo-Berber language", "text": "Judeo-Berber language\n\nJudeo-Berber (, ) is any of several hybrid Berber varieties traditionally spoken as a second language in Jewish communities of central and southern Morocco, and perhaps earlier in Algeria. Judeo-Berber is (or was) a contact language; the first language of speakers was Judeo-Arabic. (There were also Jews who spoke Berber as their first language, but not a distinct Jewish variety.) Speakers emigrated to Israel in the 1950s and 1960s. While mutually comprehensible with the Tamazight spoken by most inhabitants of the area (Galand-Pernet et al. 1970:14), these varieties are distinguished by the use of Hebrew loanwords and the pronunciation of \"š\" as \"s\" (as in many Jewish Moroccan Arabic dialects).\n\nCommunities where Jews in Morocco spoke Judeo-Berber included : Tinerhir, Ouijjane, Asaka, Imini, Draa valley, Demnate and Ait Bou Oulli in the Tamazight-speaking Middle Atlas and High Atlas and Oufrane, Tiznit and Illigh in the Tasheliyt-speaking Souss valley (Galand-Pernet et al. 1970:2). Jews were living among tribal Berbers, often in the same villages and practiced old tribal Berber protection relationships. \n\nAlmost all speakers of Judeo-Berber left Morocco in the years following its independence, and their children have mainly grown up speaking other languages. In 1992, about 2,000 speakers remained, mainly in Israel; all are at least bilingual in Judeo-Arabic.\n\nJudeo-Berber is characterized by the following phonetic phenomena: \n\n\nApart from its daily use, Judeo-Berber was used for orally explaining religious texts, and only occasionally written, using Hebrew characters; a manuscript Pesah Haggadah written in Judeo-Berber has been reprinted (Galand-Pernet et al. 1970.) A few prayers, like the Benedictions over the Torah, were recited in Berber.\n\nTaken from Galand-Pernet et al. 1970:121 (itself from a manuscript from Tinghir):\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4135629", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4135629", "title": "Kalmyk Americans", "text": "Kalmyk Americans\n\nKalmyk Americans are Americans of Kalmyk descent. These people originated in Dzungaria (located in contemporary China), but moved to Russia in the 16th century where they were assimilated. In 2000, their number in New Jersey numbered about 3,000.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4970808", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4970808", "title": "King's Manor", "text": "King's Manor\n\nThe King's Manor is a Grade I listed building in York, England, and is part of the University of York.\n\nKing's Manor was originally built to house the abbots of St Mary's Abbey, York. The Abbot's house probably occupied the site since the eleventh century, but the earliest remains date from the fifteenth century. When the abbey was dissolved in 1539, Henry VIII instructed that it be the seat of the Council of the North. It performed this role until the Council was abolished in 1641. From 1667 to 1688, it was the residence of the Governor of York. During the Glorious Revolution of 1688, the Governor, Sir John Reresby, 2nd Baronet, remained loyal to the King, James II, but a party of armed men, led by Thomas Osborne, Earl of Danby, captured the Manor and the City of York, and held them for William of Orange. After 1688, the building was hired out to private tenants until the nineteenth century, when it was taken over and expanded by the Yorkshire School for the Blind. For a detailed description of the history and architecture of the building, perhaps the best source is that contained in the RCHME Inventory of the City of York, Volume IV.\n\nOn the departure of the Blind School in 1958, the Manor was acquired by York City Council, who leased it to the University in 1963. The main University later moved to the Heslington Campus. From 1966, the principal academic department to use the Manor was the Institute of Advanced Architectural Studies (IoAAS). The IoAAS was a leading UK provider of mid-career education for architects and related professionals, specialising latterly in architectural conservation studies. The main public room of the Manor is the Huntingdon Room, used for courses and meetings. As well as the IoAAS, there were several other Departments in the King’s Manor, the main ones being the Centre for Medieval Studies, a Language Teaching centre and the Design Unit (an architectural practice, but part of the IoAAS). The building also housed six University staff flats. The Dining Room provided an important place for the meeting of ‘town and gown’, especially in the early years of the University. Following the closure of the IoAAS, the main occupant became the Department of Archaeology (including the Archaeology Data Service), plus the Centre for Medieval Studies and the Centre for Eighteenth Century Studies.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31351065", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31351065", "title": "Libraries in Second Life", "text": "Libraries in Second Life\n\n\"Second Life\" (SL) is an immersive 3D environment that can be used for entertainment and educational purposes. Due to increasing interest in digital services, some libraries have established virtual services on \"Second Life\".\n\nBy 2007, there were more than 40 libraries in \"Second Life\" and the number was increasing as of April 2011. Many of those libraries were found in Cybrary City, part of the information archipelago on \"Second Life\". This place was built for libraries to set up their virtual services and for displaying their resources. Libraries can provide their services while also learning new skills for 21st-century librarianship.\n\nLibrary services in \"Second Life\" can be found at the following SL locations:\n\n\n\"Second Life\" libraries are examples of immersive learning environments. Users can interact with the services in practical ways, such as walking around a virtual space. Libraries in \"Second Life\" often put on digital exhibitions as part of their services, for example an exhibit displaying virtual representations of Van Gogh paintings, including \"Starry Night\". The aim of virtual library services is to attract new users to traditional libraries as well as establishing links with librarians from all over the world. Most of these services are run by volunteers.\n\nThere have been numerous initiatives to create educational spaces within \"Second Life\". There are Victorian areas in which residents dress in period clothes, an Egyptian tomb and a Renaissance Island created by the Alliance Second Life Libraries. Central Missouri State University has also received funding to create a reproduction of 1920s Harlem.\n\nLibraries can also put on virtual events such as conferences, seminars and lectures. In 2008 and 2009 Alliance Library System (ALS) organised a conference called \"Virtual Worlds: Libraries, Education and Museums Conference\". It took place in the New Media Consortium Conference Center in \"Second Life\" and was designed to \"provide a gathering place for librarians, information professionals, educators, museologists, and others to learn about and discuss the educational, informational, and cultural opportunities of virtual worlds\".\n\nVirtual libraries which are independent, run by volunteers and not affiliated with a traditional library are often the most successful ones in \"Second Life\". \"Second Life\"-only virtual libraries tend to be more successful than the \"Second Life\" branches of public libraries. Users suggest that the libraries in \"Second Life\" serve a niche population, which results in difficulties with marketing. Staff of public libraries have different perspectives on SL when they are experimenting with it, which results in general conflict.\n\nIn order to have a successful virtual library in \"Second Life\" there are six different elements that should be considered. These are:\n\n\nThe Alliance Library System is an Illinois based local library co-operator, providing vital library services to citizens. It serves three sectors: libraries, legislators and communities. It is also one of the nine multitype library systems. Multitype library systems cooperate amongst different library sectors in a community, including academic, public, school, and special libraries.\n\nIn 2003, the Alliance Library System, the Mid-Illinois Talking Book Center, and the Illinois State Library Talking Book and Braille Service founded Online Programming for All Libraries (OPAL). OPAL is an international cooperative program supported by libraries and organisations that provide web-based service and courses/trainings for library customers and staff. The administrator of OPAL is TAP Information Services. Programs include library training, special events and virtual tours of digital library collections. OPAL events mainly happen online. Those online rooms can be accessed via various ways (e.g. voice-over-IP, text chatting and synchronised browsing) by participants. In 2006, Alliance Library System and OPAL Opened an Alliance of Libraries 2.0 on \"Second Life\" together.\n\nIn 2006 the Alliance Library System, along with other library organisations, began to investigate the possibility of establishing a library network on Second Life. By late 2006 they had purchased some land in \"Second Life\" and built a virtual library. They started holding discussion groups as well as classes for teens in the library, including courses on podcasting and film-making and an open-mic night.\n\nIn 2007 ALS created a virtual information archipelago called Info Island. The grand opening was on 12–14 October 2007. Info Island consists of numerous islands housing various libraries and institutions run by the volunteers of the Community Virtual Library as well as Academic libraries such as Stanford University Library and government organisations such as the Centres for Disease Control.\n\n\"When Real and Virtual Worlds Collide: A Second Life Library\" is a research paper carried out by Chase Baity, Pam Chappell, David Rachlin, C. Vinson and Marilyn Zamarripa. The group studied traditional public libraries, their \"Second Life\" counterparts, and independent \"Second Life\" in order to find out whether independent \"Second Life\" libraries or libraries affiliated with a Real Life library were the most successful. They used surveys, focus groups, and interviews. Over 350 users and 15 staff members participated in the study.\nThe research questions for the study were:\n\n\nA secondary question was looking at how other real life and \"Second Life\" libraries are similar to or different from the Olathe project.\n\nThe study found that \"Second-Life-only libraries are far more popular than Second Life branches of public libraries\". They also found that \"there are no clear indications of what makes a \"Second Life\" library more or less popular than an other.\n\nThe University College Dublin (UCD) James Joyce Library built up the first Irish library in Second Life. University College Dublin set up its library in \"Second Life\" in March 2007 as a part of ALS's Cybrary City project. This virtual library has several features and services, including user surveys, e-mail services, e-books, presentations, comment box, virtual PC, notecard giver, trampoline, dance machine and visitor counter. A work group was established for services, technology, staffing and marketing.\n\nThe Independent State of Caledon is an area of \"Second Life\" which is exclusively Victorian-themed. It includes its own virtual library.\n\nAs well as a traditional building, Caledon Library has an outdoor reading room, the Vannevar Bush Memorial Reading Garden. Users can find a book and sit under a tree to read it. It also holds book discussion groups and hosts art exhibitions.\n\nCaledon Library has two main collection policies. These are 19th-century literature and materials relating to the Independent State of Caledon. They collect primary source material (including 19th-century novels and periodicals or materials from earlier ages considered important in the 19th century) and research materials relating to the 19th century. They are hoping to build a \"listening collection\" of audio books on these topics. Another project is a collection of materials created by residents of Caledon or items relating to Caledon. Their aspiration is to eventually establish the Caledon Archives.\n\n\nDue to changes in modern lifestyle and consumer behaviours, modern customers may not visit local library buildings. This has become a worry and reason for city councils to cut libraries' budgets. Some libraries, such as ALS decided to take the organisations to their customers, transferring from real life into a virtual world.\n\nIn recent years \"Second Life\" libraries have held discussion groups and planned events. Participant librarians say that responses have been much higher than they thought they could be. For example, in the early days of ALS establishing a virtual library in Second Life, a surprising number of Residents visited the building, with some even asking reference questions.\n\nAccording to successful examples, more and more libraries have realised that \"Second Life\" is a new and good means to interact with their customers, helping traditional libraries to accommodate new demands and challenges.\n\nSome \"real life\" librarians may find it difficult to balance their duties in their online and offline capacities. Librarians are passionate about their commitments to virtual world libraries to the extent that most librarians completed virtual library work at home and are not compensated by their libraries for this work\n. This could potentially cause problems with stress and fatigue.\n\nLibrarians also indicated that adequate computing equipment and faster broadband access is important for increasing the productivity and performance of Second Life libraries, and these requirements limit the involvement of numerous librarians. Additional issues of computing supports include network security programs that help Second Life libraries to solve problems such as appropriate permissions, authentications, limitations of functionality based on security restrictions and service attacks.\n\nAdditionally, there are some technology challenges. For example, the use of radio-frequency identification (RFID) – common in most libraries – has become one of the challenges for \"Second Life\" libraries. \"Second Life\" is sometimes unable to get all the information normally stored on RFID devices such as the means keeping track of library books, people or policies.\n\nSome professionals have acknowledged that \"Second Life\" offers unique opportunities to expand the horizons of traditional library services. In addition, some university librarians believe that \"Second Life\" libraries can be a valuable part of University services, becoming involved in activities such as delivering a downloading service for lecture notes.\n\nSome studies have found that some librarians did not pay enough attention to pre-planning their \"Second Life\" libraries, despite librarianship having a culture of planning and management. Most \"Second Life\" librarians have no time to manage a \"Second Life\" Library during their working time because there is not any official timeline that designed by departments. As a result, \"Second Life\" libraries are misunderstood by many people who view \"Second Life\" libraries as just games without any educational value. Although the \"Second Life\" library is easier to navigate and provides many useful and good materials, it has few users. The reason is that the \"Second Life\" branch has not been well promoted in real life so library users do not know its existence.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16908870", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16908870", "title": "Medical Officer for Health", "text": "Medical Officer for Health\n\nMedical Officer of Health, Medical Health Officer or District Medical Officer, is a title and commonly used for the senior government official of a health department or agency, usually at a municipal, county/district, state/province, or regional level. The post is held by a physician who serves to advise and lead a team of public health professionals such as environmental health officers and public health nurses on matters of public health importance.\n\nThe equivalent senior health official at the national level is often referred to as the Chief Medical Officer, although the title varies across countries, for example known as the Surgeon General in the United States and the Chief Public Health Officer in Canada.\n\nIn Canada, all communities are under the jurisdiction of an MOH. The roles of the MOH vary across jurisdictions, but always include responsibilities related to public health and safety, and may include the following functions:\n\n\nHealth officers in India are expected to have prescribed qualifications, such as a Bachelor of Sanitary Science (B.S.Sc.), a degree of an institution recognized by the Medical Council of India or a diploma in Public Health after a 2-year study at the University of Calcutta.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, the municipal position was an elected head of the local board of health, however the term MOH has also been used to refer to the Chief Medical Officer. Under the Metropolis Local Management Act 1855, London municipalities were each required to appoint a medical officer. In 1856, 48 officers took up appointments in the city, and these specialists formed Metropolitan Association of Medical Officers of Health. They were important and influential in the establishment of municipal hospitals under the provisions of the Local Government Act 1929. In the 1974 NHS reorganisation they were replaced by Community Physicians who were attached to the different levels of the NHS.\n\n\nHealth Officer is a common term used in the United States for public health officials, such as medical health officers and environmental health officers. They may serve at the global, federal, state, county, or municipal level.\nThe end of the 20th century and beginning of the 21st saw major issues for health officials and health officers include tobacco control, injury prevention, public health surveillance, disease control, access to health care, health equity, health disparities, cultural competence, access to preventive services such as immunizations and health promotion.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42593208", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42593208", "title": "Mirchpur", "text": "Mirchpur\n\nMirchpur is an Indus Valley Civilization site and village in Narnaund, Hissar district, Haryana, India.\n\nAs of 2011 India census, Mirchpur had a population of 8737 in 1670 households. Males (4706) constitute 53.85% of the population and females (4031) 46.13%. Mirchpur has an average literacy (5498) rate of 62.92%, lower than the national average of 74%: male literacy (3464) is 63%, and female literacy (2034) is 36.99% of total literates (5498). In Mirchpur, Hisar 10.91% of the population is under 6 years of age (954). Scheduled Castes constitutes 17.81% of total population village at 1556 out of 8737.\n\nSisai is an Indus Valley Civilization site with three mounds Sisai 1, Sisai 2 and Sisai 2.\n\nBolstering the status of Rakhigarhi as the largest Indus Valley Civilization metropolis on the banks of Drishadvati river (current day paleochannel of Chautang), at least 23 other Indus Valley Civilization sites within 5 km (at 4 sites), 10 km (at least 10 sites) and 15 km (at least 9 sites) radius of Rakhigarhi have been discovered till 2001. Some of the raw materials were procured from the nodal \"Rakhigarhi\" site and finished products were brought back to the nodal \"Rakhigarhi\" site for marketing.\n\nWithin 5 km radius are early Harappan (4600 BCE - 2800 BCE) site of Gamra and mature Harappan (2600 BCE - 1400 BCE) sites of Budana, Haibatpur and Lohari Ragho 3.\n\nWithin 5 km to 10 km radius, early Harappan sites are Lohari Ragho 1 Lohari Ragho 2\nand Kheri Lochab-Kheri Jalab. Mature Harappan small farmstead sites are Milakpur and Gunkali. Small farmstead sites of Kinnar, Nara and Mirchpur have material from both mature and late Harappan period. late Harappan (after 1400 BCE) sites are Sotha and\nGandaswala Khera.\n\nWithin 5 km to 10 km radius are early, mature and late Harrpan sites. To the north-west of Rakhigarhi are Panhari, Gyanpura, Sotha, Kagsar, Sulchani and south-west of Rakhigarhi are Sisai 1, 2 and 3, Rajpura 2, Pali and Masudpur.\n\nIn 2010, Jai Prakash’s house at Dalit Valmiki community colony of Mirchpur has a 2 year old dog named Ruby, which allegedly barked at some 10 to 15 drunk boys from Jat community drove on motorcycles in front of his house. One of the Jat boys, Rajinder Pali hurled a brick at the dog which was objected by a young dalit boy named Yogesh which lead to physical fight between them. Jat boys threatened dalits of dire consequences for this. Later. two Balmiki elders named Veer Bhan and Karan Singh apologized to Jat elders and still got beaten by them. Narnaund’s Station House Officer (SHO) Vinod Kumar Kajal was close to a prominent Jat of Mirchpur. On 21 April 2010 all Dalit men were invited for a compromise to another place. In their absence, 300 to 400 Jat men, women came with jerry cans of kerosene and petrol, agricultural implements and lathis first ransacking jewels, cash, clothes in the houses and than setting the homes ablaze with dalit women and kids inside. This lead to Death by burning of 70-year-old Tara Chand and his 18-year-old physically challenged daughter Suman in fire. After this incident, 200 dalit families left the village fearing for their safety. Only 50 families remained with a group of 75 CRPF personnel deployed in the village. Police named 103 people in the charge sheet out of which 5 were juveniles. In September 2011, 15 people were convicted and 82 acquitted by a Sessions court. CRPF was withdrawn in December 2016. In January 2017, Shiv Kumar a 17-year-old Dalit boy (also a district-level athlete) won a cash prize of Rs 1,500 in the cycle-stunt competition at a local playground. A group of youths from the upper castes Brahmins, Lohars, Khatis including Jats allegedly passing casteist remarks against him which led to a fight where nine Dalit youths, aged between 14 and 25, were severely injured. After this incident remaining 40 dalit families also left the village. On 24 August 2018, in a landmark judgement Delhi High Court reversed the acquittal of 20 accused and upheld the conviction of 13 others in the case with enhanced punishment for nine of them. A bench of justices S Muralidhar and I S Mehta observed The statement that atrocities by those belonging to dominant castes against Scheduled Castes have shown no sign of abating even after 71 years of Independence forms part of the 209-page judgement authored by Justice S Muralidhar. After the verdict, two police companies were deployed in Mirchpur under the charge of duty magistrate and DSP. The next day, witnesses in the case didn't step out for work fearing backlash of the verdict.\n\n"}
{"id": "20330375", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20330375", "title": "Moralistic therapeutic deism", "text": "Moralistic therapeutic deism\n\nMoralistic therapeutic deism (MTD) is a term that was first introduced in the book \"Soul Searching: The Religious and Spiritual Lives of American Teenagers\" (2005) by sociologists Christian Smith and Melinda Lundquist Denton. The term is used to describe what they consider to be the common beliefs among American youth. The book is the result of the research project the \"National Study of Youth and Religion\".\n\nThe author's study found that many young people believe in several moral statutes not exclusive to any of the major world religions. It is not a new religion or theology as such, but identified as a set of commonly-held spiritual beliefs. It is this combination of beliefs that they label Moralistic Therapeutic Deism:\n\n\nThese points of belief were compiled from interviews with approximately 3,000 teenagers.\n\nThe authors say the system is \"moralistic\" because it \"is about inculcating a moralistic approach to life. It teaches that central to living a good and happy life is being a good, moral person.\" The authors describe the system as being \"about providing therapeutic benefits to its adherent\" as opposed to being about things like \"repentance from sin, of keeping the Sabbath, of living as a servant of a sovereign divine, of steadfastly saying one's prayers, of faithfully observing high holy days, of building character through suffering...\" and further as \"belief in a particular kind of God: one who exists, created the world, and defines our general moral order, but not one who is particularly personally involved in one's affairs—especially affairs in which one would prefer not to have God involved.\"\n\nThe remoteness of God in this kind of theism explains the choice of the term \"Deism\", even though \"the Deism here is revised from its classical eighteenth-century version by the therapeutic qualifier, making the distant God selectively available for taking care of needs.\" It views God as \"something like a combination Divine Butler and Cosmic Therapist: he's always on call, takes care of any problems that arise, professionally helps his people to feel better about themselves, and does not become too personally involved in the process.\"\n\nThe authors believe that \"a significant part of Christianity in the United States is actually only tenuously Christian in any sense that is seriously connected to the actual historical Christian tradition, but has rather substantially morphed into Christianity's misbegotten stepcousin, Christian Moralistic Therapeutic Deism.\"\n\nCNN online featured an article, \"More Teens Becoming Fake Christians\" on Kenda Creasy Dean's 2010 book \"Almost Christian: What the Faith of Our Teenagers is Telling the American Church\". (Oxford University Press, 2010). She writes, \"The problem does not seem to be that churches are teaching young people badly, but that we are doing an exceedingly good job of teaching youth what we really believe, namely, that Christianity is not a big deal, that God requires little, and the church is a helpful social institution filled with nice people…\" She goes on to say that \"if churches practice MTD in the name of Christianity, then getting teenagers to church more often is not the solution (conceivably it could make things worse). A more faithful church is the solution…. Maybe the issue is simply that the emperor has no clothes.\"\n\nDeist writers have leveled two criticisms against use of the term Moralistic Therapeutic Deism, or MTD. First, it has been argued that the word \"Deism\" has been too radically redefined by the coiners of the phrase. Deism in the classical sense means belief in an intelligent designer arrived at through reason and observation of the natural world. One critic states that: \n\nA second criticism is that the term is tendentious rather than descriptive, since, as even the originators admit, \"no teenager would actually use the terminology 'Moralistic Therapeutic Deist' to describe himself or herself,\" The term is usually applied to denigrate a set of beliefs less traditional than one's own. \n\nA third critique is that Moralistic Therapeutic Deism is thus more of a general worldview than a religion or theology in itself. The above mentioned moral concepts of MTD, (what the original study called the \"5 core beliefs\") are not unique to any particular religion or spiritual practice. They can, however, be seen as principles extracted and generalised from orthodox Christianity, but devoid of specific doctrines about God and humanity.\n\nDamon Linker suggested in a 2009 blog post that Moralistic Therapeutic Deism, while theologically \"insipid\", is \"perfectly suited to serve as the civil religion of the highly differentiated twenty-first century United States,\" a contention that was disputed by Collin Hansen, Ross Douthat, and Rod Dreher.\n\n"}
{"id": "2673462", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2673462", "title": "Museum of Fine Arts (Budapest)", "text": "Museum of Fine Arts (Budapest)\n\nThe Museum of Fine Arts ( [ˈseːpmyveːsɛti ˈmuːzɛum]) is a museum in Heroes' Square, Budapest, Hungary, facing the Palace of Art.\n\nIt was built by the plans of Albert Schickedanz and Fülöp Herzog in an eclectic-neoclassical style, between 1900 and 1906. The museum's collection is made up of international art (other than Hungarian), including all periods of European art, and comprises more than 100,000 pieces. The collection is made up of older additions such as those from Buda Castle, the Esterházy and Zichy estates, as well as donations from individual collectors. The Museum's collection is made up of six departments: Egyptian, Antique, Old sculpture gallery, Old master paintings gallery, Modern collection, Graphics collection. The institution celebrated its centenary in 2006.\n\nOn 16 February 2015, the museum closed to the public for renovation. It is expected to reopen on 31 October 2018. In the meantime, a selection of works are housed in the Hungarian National Gallery.\n\nThe gallery holds the second largest collection of Egyptian art in central Europe. It comprises a number of collections bought together by Hungarian Egyptologist, Eduard Mahler, in the 1930s. Subsequent digs in Egypt have expanded the collection. Some of the most interesting pieces are the painted mummy sarcophagi.\nThe core of the collection was made up of pieces acquired from Paul Arndt, a classicist from Munich. The exhibition mainly includes works from Ancient Greece and Rome. Most significant is the 3rd century marble statue called the Budapest dancer. The Cyprean and Mycenaean collection is also notable, also the ceramics and bronzes.\n\nThe 3000 paintings in the collection offer an almost uninterrupted survey of the development of European painting from the 13th to the late 18th centuries. The core of the collection is constituted by the 700 paintings acquired from the Esterhazy estate. The collection is split up into Italian, German, Netherlandish, Flemish, French, English and Spanish art. The most important works include Maso di Banco's \"Coronation of the Virgin\", Sassetta's \"Saint Thomas Aquinas at Prayer\", Domenico Ghirlandaio's \"Saint Stephen Martyr\", Bernardo Bellotto's \"The Piazza della Signoria in Florence\", Gentile Bellini's \"Portrait of Caterina Cornaro\", Giorgione's \"Portrait of a Young Man\", Raphael's \"Esterhazy Madonna\", Giambattista Pittoni's \"St Elizabeth Distributing Alms\", Correggio's \"Madonna and Child with an Angel\", three works by Sebastiano del Piombo, Bronzino's \"Adoration of the Shepherds\" as well as his \"Venus, Cupid and Jealousy\", Romanino's \"Doge Agostino Barbarigo Handing over a Banner to Niccolo Orsini\", Titian's \"Portrait of Doge Marcantonio Trevisani\", Tintoretto's \"Supper at Emmaus\", Tiepolo's \"St James the Greater in the Battle of Clavijo\", Dürer's \"Portrait of a Young Man\", Bernard van Orley's \"Portrait of Emperor Charles V\", eight pictures by Lucas Cranach the Elder, Pieter Bruegel the Elder's \"St John the Baptist Preaching\", Rubens's \"Mucius Scaevola Before Porsenna\", Maarten van Heemskerck's \"Lamentation\", two excellent portraits by Frans Hals, and a particularly strong collection of works by Spanish masters including El Greco, Velázquez and Goya.\n\nThe collection's main section is devoted to pieces from the Middle Ages to the 17th century. It was based on the Italian collection of Karoly Pulszky and Istvan Ferenczy's bronze collections. From the latter came one of the most treasured works, the small equestrian by Leonardo da Vinci. A number of painted wooden sculptures feature in the German and Austrian section.\n\nThe collection shows selected rotating exhibitions of its collection of 10,000 drawings and 100,000 prints originating mainly from the Esterhazy, Istvan Delhaes and Pal Majovsky acquisitions. All periods of European graphic art are represented. Important pieces include two studies by Leonardo da Vinci for the 'Battle of Anghiari', 15 drawings by Rembrandt, 200 pieces by Goya, and French aquatints.\n\nThe museum's collection of 19th- and 20th-century art is less significant than those found in other departments; it is a younger collection. The bulk of the painting is from the Biedermeier period and French art. From the latter are representatives of the Romantic period (Eugène Delacroix), the Barbizon school (Jean-Baptiste-Camille Corot, Gustave Courbet) and Impressionism (Édouard Manet, Claude Monet, Camille Pissarro, Pierre-Auguste Renoir, Henri de Toulouse-Lautrec). There is a large collection of sculptures by Auguste Rodin and Constantin Meunier.\n\nHungarian artist, Victor Vasarely, donated a significant collection of his works to the gallery. These have found a permanent home outside the walls of the gallery at the Zichy mansion in Obuda. The two-storey wing of the building is known as the Vasarely Museum and is the only one of its kind in eastern Europe.\n\n\nIn 2008, the director of the Museum of Fine Arts, László Baán, proposed the merging of his museum with that of the Hungarian National Gallery, due to the similar exhibition and collection profile of the two. Both (along with the Ludwig Museum of Contemporary Art) specialize in 20th century and contemporary fine art, much of which was created by Hungarian artists living overseas. After his request to add an €18million underground extension to the Museum of Fine Arts, which would have united collections spread across the city, was denied in February 2011, Baán presented an alternative plan to the government to build two new buildings at the cost of €150m. He envisioned the new buildings, one housing contemporary European art and the other Hungarian photography, as a \"special museum island\" that would complement the Museum of Fine Arts and the Budapest Art Hall (Műcsarnok) by permanently joining the two collections by 2017.\n\nIn September 2011, Secretary of State for Culture Géza Szőcs officially announced plans to build a new structure along Andrássy út close to City Park and near the existing Budapest Museum of Fine Arts and Budapest Art Hall (Műcsarnok). This building would house the collections of the current Hungarian National Gallery. This expanded plan, which would utilize the entire boulevard, is also referred to as the Budapest Museum Quarter or Andrássy Quarter.\n\nIn early December 2011, Ferenc Csák, director of the Hungarian National Gallery since 2010 and critical of the proposed merger of the gallery with the Museum of Fine Arts, called the merge process \"[v]ery unprofessional, anti–democratic and short–sighted\" and announced that he would resign at the end of 2011. , a new director had not been named and the Hungarian National Gallery was being led by Deputy General Director, György Szűcs.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9458094", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9458094", "title": "Mutual liberty", "text": "Mutual liberty\n\nMutual liberty is an idea first coined by Alexis de Tocqueville in his 1835 work \"Democracy in America\". In effect, Tocqueville was referring to the general nature of American society during the 19th century. It appeared to him, at least on the surface, that every citizen in the United States had the opportunity to participate in the civic activities of the country. Another way to look at mutual liberty is by accounting for the collective free wills of every rational being in a community. Even though the notion of mutual liberty was introduced by Tocqueville, it was John Stuart Mill who greatly expanded it. Mill believed that the most proper occasion for mutual liberty was in a community governed by the consent of the governed, i.e., a republic. And according to Mill, it is only in a republic where members of all political factions can participate. It has been said that a republic is the form of government that divides people least. This statement pertains greatly to mutual liberty. Unlike positive and negative liberty, mutual liberty encompasses all citizens. It makes no distinction between political preference and social status. Mutual liberty pervades all sectors of society, from the homeless man on the street to the premier of the state. It is the process through which a general sense of morality gets exerted on the widest range of people in any given communal setting.\n\n"}
{"id": "19161126", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19161126", "title": "New Zealand Journal of Asian Studies", "text": "New Zealand Journal of Asian Studies\n\nThe New Zealand Journal of Asian Studies is a peer-reviewed academic journal that was founded in June 1999. It is the official journal of the New Zealand Asian Studies Society. The journal covers a broad range of Asia-related topics. It is published biannually, in June and in December. The journal contains a mixture of academic articles and reviews, from contributors both within and outside New Zealand.\n"}
{"id": "7426639", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7426639", "title": "Nikolai Gogol bibliography", "text": "Nikolai Gogol bibliography\n\nThis is a list of the works by Nikolai Gogol (1809–52), followed by a list of adaptations of his works: \n\n\n\n\nGogol's short stories composed between 1830 and 1835 are set in Ukraine, and are sometimes referenced collectively as his \"Ukrainian tales\".\n\nHis short stories composed between 1835 and 1842 are set in Petersburg, and are sometimes referenced collectively as his \"St Petersburg tales\".\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24849513", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24849513", "title": "Non-Hispanic whites", "text": "Non-Hispanic whites\n\nNon-Hispanic whites or whites not of Hispanic or Latino origin (commonly referred to as Anglo-Americans), are European Americans who are not of Hispanic or Latino origin/ethnicity, as defined by the United States Census Bureau. Hispanics and Latinos can be of any race, as the United States Census Bureau regards the Hispanic ethnicity as independent of race. Non-Hispanic White Americans are a subcategory of White Americans, the other being White Hispanic and Latino Americans.\n\nAmericans of European ancestry represent ethnic groups that combined account for more than half of the share of the Non-Hispanic white population are the Germans, the Irish, and English (additionally Americans).\n\nIn the United States, this population was first derived from English (and, to a lesser degree, French) settlement of the Americas, as well as settlement by other Europeans such as the Germans and Dutch that began in the 17th century (see History of the United States). Continued growth since the early 19th century is attributed to sustained very high birth rates alongside relatively low death rates among settlers and natives alike as well as periodically massive immigration from European countries, especially Germany, Ireland, England, Italy, Greece, Sweden and Norway, as well as Poland, Russia, and many more countries. It typically refers to an English-speaking American in distinction to Spanish speakers in Mexico and the Southwestern states; German speakers (Amish) in North Dakota, Ohio, and Pennsylvania; French speakers in Quebec, New England, and Louisiana; and traditionally Russian and Yiddish-speaking American Jews in New York.\n\nIn 2011, for the first time in U.S. history, non-Hispanic whites accounted for under half of the births in the country, with 49.6% of total births. Over 50% of children under age one are minorities. Between 2015 and 2016 for the first time in American history the population of non-Hispanic whites declined by .005% and then declined by .016% between 2016 and 2017 to a historic low of 60.7%. Between 2042 and 2045, the United States is projected to be a majority minority nation and by 2060 the white population will decline by roughly 16.1 million.\n\nThe first Europeans who came to North Americas were Norse explorers around the year 1000, however they ultimately left the continent leaving no permanent settlements behind. Later, pilgrims and colonists came in the 1600s along the east coast, mainly from England, in search of economic opportunities and religious freedom. Over time emigrants from Europe settled the coastal regions developing a commercial economy. Between one-half and two-thirds of white immigrants to the American colonies between the 1630s and American Revolution had come as indentured servants. The total number of European immigrants to all 13 colonies before 1775 was about 500,000; of these 55,000 were involuntary prisoners. Of the 450,000 or so European arrivals who came voluntarily, an estimated 48% were indentured.\n\nBy the time of American Revolution there were about 2.5 million whites in the colonies. The white population was largely of English, German, Irish, Scotch-Irish and French Huguenot descent at the time. Between the revolution and the 1820s there was relatively little immigration to the U.S. Starting after the 1820s large scale migration to the U.S began and lasted until the 1920s. Many of the newcomers were of Irish, Italian, and Polish descent which lead to a nativist backlash. Some Americans worried about the growing Catholic population and wanted to maintain America as an Anglo Saxon Protestant nation. Over the course of the 19th and early 20th century European mass emigration to the United States and high birthrates grew the white population. After the American Revolution white Americans settled the entire nation west of Appalachian Mountains, ultimately displacing the natives and populating the entire country by the late 19th century. All immigration to the US declined markedly between the mid 1920s until the 1960s due to a combination of immigration laws, The Great Depression, and The Second World War. \n\nSince 1965 white migration to the U.S has been relatively minor compared to other racial and ethnic groups. During the 1990s there was a moderate increase from former communist countries in Eastern Europe. At the same time birthrates amongst whites have fallen below replacement level. \n\nWhite Americans have developed their own music, art, cuisine, fashion, and political economy largely based on a combination of traditional European ones. Most religious white Americans are Christian. Many Europeans often Anglicized their names and over time most Europeans adopted English as their primary language and intermarried with other white groups.\n\nThe falling percentage of non-Hispanic white Americans is due to multiple factors:\n\n1. Immigration. The U.S. has the largest number of immigrants in the world with the vast majority coming from countries where the population is of non-white and/or Hispanic origin. Immigration to the U.S. from European countries has been in a steady decline since World War II averaging 56% of all immigrants in the 1950s and declining to 35% of all immigrants in the 1960s, 20% in the 1970s, 11% in the 1980s, 14% in the 1990s, and 13% in the 2000s. In 2009, approximately 90% of all immigrants came from non-European countries. The U.S. does receive a small number of non-Hispanic white immigrants, mainly from countries such as Brazil, Canada, Poland, Russia, and the UK, as well as Egypt and Iran.\n\n2. Intermarriage. The USA is seeing an unprecedented increase in intermarriage between the various racial and ethnic groups. In 2008, a record 14.6% of all new marriages in the United States were between spouses of a different race or ethnicity from one another. 9% of non-Hispanic whites who married in 2008 married either a non-white or Hispanic. Among all newlyweds in 2008, intermarried pairings were primarily white-Hispanic \"of any race\" (41%) as compared to white-Asian (15%), white-black (11%), and other combinations (33%). Other combinations consists of pairings between different minority groups, multi-racial people, and Native Indigenous Americans. The children of such unions would not automatically be classified as white non-Hispanic, although note that one self-identifies their racial and/or ethnic category, and would not preclude a certain number identifying themselves as non-Hispanic white rather than white Hispanic once they grow up, particularly if in addition to having a European appearance they do not speak Spanish or carry a Spanish surname, for example. According to Pew, 59% of non-Hispanics who acknowledged having some Hispanic ancestry of any race but do not consider themselves Hispanic and are able to pass as white non-Hispanic are tallied as such, adding about 3 million persons to the non-Hispanic white population rather than to the white Hispanic population.\n\n3. Methodology. In the 2000 Census, people were allowed to check more than one race in addition to choosing \"Hispanic.\" There was strong opposition to this from some civil rights activists who feared that this would reduce the size of various racial minorities. The government responded by counting those who are white and of one minority race or ethnicity as minorities for the purposes of civil-rights monitoring and enforcement. Hence one could be 1/8th black and still be counted as a minority. Also, because this does not apply to Hispanic origin (one is either Hispanic or not, but cannot be both Hispanic \"and\" non-Hispanic), the offspring of Hispanics and non-Hispanics are usually counted as Hispanic. In 2017, the Pew Research Center reported that high intermarriage rates and declining Latin American immigration has led to 11% of U.S. adults with Hispanic ancestry (5.0 million people) to no longer identify as Hispanic. First generation immigrants from Spain and Latin America identify as Hispanic at very high rates (97%) which reduces in each succeeding generation, second generation (92%), third generation (77%), and fourth generation (50%).\n\n4. Attrition. Minority populations are younger than non-Hispanic whites. The national median age in 2011 was 37.3 with non-Hispanic whites having the oldest median age (42.3) while Hispanics have the youngest (27.6). Non-Hispanic blacks (32.9) and non-Hispanic Asians (35.9) also are younger than whites. In 2013, the Census Bureau reported that for the first time, due to the more advanced age profile of the non-Hispanic white population, non-Hispanic whites died at a faster rate than non-Hispanic white births.\n\nAlthough non-Hispanic whites are declining as a percentage, in actual numbers they were growing. From 2000 - 2010 the non-Hispanic white population grew from 194,552,774 to 196,817,552 - A growth of 1.2% over the 10-year period, due to residual population momentum.\n\nIn 2012, in 37 out of the 50 U.S. states non-Hispanic whites made up a greater percentage of the state's population than the U.S. overall share of 62.8%; however, the 13 states with greater shares of non-whites include the four most populous states (California, Texas, New York, and Florida). Also, note that while the \"total\" non-Hispanic white population has grown since 2000 in 36 out of the 50 states, the \"relative share\" of non-Hispanic whites in the overall state population has declined in all 50 states during that same time period.\n\nAs of 2016, five states are majority minority: Hawaii, California, New Mexico, Texas, and Nevada.\n\n"}
{"id": "28777788", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28777788", "title": "Pakistani textbooks controversy", "text": "Pakistani textbooks controversy\n\nThe Pakistani textbooks controversy relates to the reported inaccuracy of some Pakistani textbooks and the existence of historical revisionism in them. The content of Pakistan's official textbooks has often been criticized by several sources including many within Pakistan for sometimes promoting religious intolerance and Indophobia, leading to calls for curriculum reform.\n\nAccording to Hussain Haqqani, only officially published textbooks are used in Pakistan's schools and colleges since the era of Ayub Khan. This is used by Pakistani government to create a standard narrative of Pakistan's history. During the rule of General Muhammad Zia-ul-Haq a \"program of Islamization\" of the country including the textbooks was started. General Zia's 1979 education policy stated that \"[the] highest priority would be given to the revision of the curricula with a view to reorganizing the entire content around Islamic thought and giving education an ideological orientation so that Islamic ideology permeates the thinking of the younger generation and helps them with the necessary conviction and ability to refashion society according to Islamic tenets\".\n\nAccording to the Sustainable Development Policy Institute, since the 1970s Pakistan's school textbooks have systematically inculcated hatred towards India and Hindus through historical revisionism. There is no mention of Islamic conquests and conversion of Hindus. Many texts give an impression that ancient Indian heritage was not destroyed by Afghans and Turks but Muslim heritage was destroyed by Indians, which supposedly contradicts the theory of mainstream historians.\n\nIn a 1995 paper published in the \"International Journal of Middle East Studies\", historian Ayesha Jalal stated that \"Pakistan's history textbooks amongst the best available sources for assessing the nexus between power and bigotry in creative imaginings of a national past.\" She points out authors whose \"expansive pan-Islamic imaginings\" detect the beginnings of Pakistan in the birth of Islam on the Arabian peninsula. \"A Text Book of Pakistan Studies\" claims that Pakistan \"came to be established for the first time when the Arabs under Mohammad bin Qasim occupied Sindh and Multan'; by the thirteenth century 'Pakistan had spread to include the whole of Northern India and Bengal' and then under the Khaljis, Pakistan moved further south-ward to include a greater part of Central India and the Deccan'. [...] The spirit of Pakistan asserted itself', and under Aurangzeb the 'Pakistan spirit gathered in strength'; his death 'weakened the Pakistan spirit'.\"\nJalal points out that even an acclaimed scholar like Jameel Jalibi questions the validity of a national history that seeks to \"claim Pakistan's pre-Islamic past\" in an attempt to compete with India's historic antiquity. K. Ali's two volume history designed for BA students traces the pre-history of the 'Indo-Pakistan' subcontinent to the Paleolithic Age and consistently refers to the post-1947 frontiers of Pakistan while discussing the Dravidians and the Aryans.\n\nAnti-Indian sentiments, coupled with anti-Hindu prejudices have existed in Pakistan since its formation, alternated with military dictatorship, and India being a secular state with a civilian government. According to Tufts University professor Seyyed Vali Reza Nasr, Indophobia in Pakistan increased with the ascendancy of the militant Islamist Jamaat-e-Islami under Sayyid Abul Ala Maududi. Indophobia, together with Anti-Hinduism and racist ideologies, such as the Martial Race theory, were the driving factors behind the re-writing of school textbooks in Pakistan (in both \"secular\" schools and Islamic madrassahs) in order to promote a biased and revisionist historiography of the Indian subcontinent that promulgated Indophobic and anti-Hindu prejudices. These narratives are combined with Islamist propaganda in the extensive revising of Pakistan's history. By propagating concepts such as jihad, the inferiority of non-Muslims, India’s perceived ingrained enmity with Pakistan, etc., the textbook board publications used by all government schools promote an obscurantist mindset.\n\nAccording to the historian Professor Mubarak Ali, textbook \"reform\" in Pakistan began with the introduction of Pakistan Studies and Islamic studies by Zulfiqar Ali Bhutto in 1971 into the national curriculum as a compulsory subject. Former military dictator Muhammad Zia-ul-Haq, under a general drive towards Islamization, started the process of historical revisionism in earnest and exploited this initiative. 'The Pakistani establishment taught their children right from the beginning that this state was built on the basis of religion – that's why they don't have tolerance for other religions and want to wipe-out all of them.'\n\nAccording to Pakistani physicist, Pervez Hoodbhoy, the Islamist revisionism of Pakistan's schools began in 1976 when an act of parliament required all government and private schools (except those teaching the British O-levels from Grade 9) to follow a curriculum that includes learning outcomes for the federally approved Grade 5 social studies class such as: 'Acknowledge and identify forces that may be working against Pakistan,' 'Make speeches on Jihad,' 'Collect pictures of policemen, soldiers, and national guards,' and 'India's evil designs against Pakistan.'. Likewise, Yvette Rosser criticizes Pakistani textbooks for propagating jingoist and irredentist beliefs about Pakistan's history and culture, and being negationist in its depiction of political Islam and the treatment of minorities in Pakistan, such as Hindus and Christians. Irredentism is manifested through claims of \"eternal Pakistan\" (despite the country being created from British India only in 1947), narrow and sectarian interpretation of Islam, downplaying the tolerant aspects of the religion and focusing on Islamic Fundamentalist interpretations (such as all banking being un-Islamic), and making accusations of dual loyalty on minority Hindus and Christians in Pakistan.\n\nAccording to Pakistani professor Tariq Rahman, Pakistani textbooks cannot mention Hindus without calling them cunning, scheming, deceptive or something equally insulting. The textbooks ignore the pre-Islamic history of Pakistan except to put the Hindu predecessors in negative light.\n\nAnother Pakistani historian Khursheed Kamal Aziz similarly has criticized Pakistani history textbooks. He stated that textbooks were full of historical errors and suggested that mandatory study amounted to teaching \"prescribed myths\". After examining 66 textbooks used at various levels of study Aziz argued that the textbooks supported military rule in Pakistan, promoted hatred for Hindus, glorified wars and distorted the pre 1947 history of Pakistan.\n\nA study by Iftikhar Ahmad of Long Island University published in Current Issues in Comparative Education in 2004 drew five conclusions from content analysis of the social studies textbooks in Pakistan.\n\nA study by Nayyar & Salim of the Sustainable Development Policy Institute concluded in 2003 that there is an increasing trend where children are taught Pakistan Studies as a replacement for the teaching of history and geography as full-fledged disciplines. Previously, children were taught the very early pre-Islamic history of South Asia and its contribution to rich cultural diversity of modern-day Pakistan. This long historical perspective of Pakistan is absent these Pakistan Studies textbooks. Instead, children are now taught that the history of Pakistan starts from the day the first Muslim set foot in India. The study reported that the textbooks also had a lot of gender-biased stereotypes and other perspectives that \"encourage prejudice, bigotry and discrimination towards fellow Pakistanis and other nations, especially against religious minorities, as well as the omission of concepts ... that could encourage critical self awareness among students”.\n\nRubina Saigol, a US educated expert, said \"I have been arguing for the longest time that, in fact, our state system is the biggest Madrassah, we keep blaming madrassahs for everything and, of course, they are doing a lot of things I would disagree with. But the state ideologies of hate and a violent, negative nationalism are getting out there where madrassahs cannot hope to reach.\"\n\nReferring to NCERT's extensive review of textbooks in India in 2004, Verghese considered the erosion of plural and democratic values in textbooks in India, and the distortion of history in Pakistan to imply the need for coordination between Bangladeshi, Indian, and Pakistani historians to produce a composite history of the Subcontinent as a common South Asian reader.\n\nHowever, international scholars also warn that any attempt for educational reforms under international pressure or market demands should not overlook the specific expectations of the people at local levels.\n\nIn 2011 Fazalur Rahim Marwat, the chairman of Textbook board of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa stated that reform of textbooks was being undertaken in the state. Marwat stated that previously, school books played a key role in spreading hatred against non-Muslims, particularly against Hindus and distorted the history. Such material had now been removed from the textbooks used in the state. Professor Marwat had previously blamed General Zia for “sowing seeds of discord in society on religious and ethnic lines by stuffing school curricula with material that promoted hatred now manifested in the shape of extremism, intolerance, militancy, sectarianism, dogmatism and fanaticism.” In addition he stated \"After the Indo-Pakistani War of 1965 countless lessons and chapters were introduced that spread hatred among the students and portrayed India as the biggest enemy of the Muslims. That stuff should be done away with.\"\n\nSindh province has also made efforts to reform curricula.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48616321", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48616321", "title": "Petro Janura", "text": "Petro Janura\n\nPetro Janura (1911–1983) was a main personality of the Albanian language, literature, and folklore in Yugoslavia during '50s-mid '80s. A writer, journalist, folklorist, pedagogue, literary critic, and researcher, he is remembered as the founder of the Albanian language Catedra of the University of Skopje, and editor-in-chief of Skopje-based periodicals as \"Flaka e vëllazërimit\" (Flame of brotherhood), and \"Jehona\" (The echo).\n\nJanura was born on 25 March 1911 in Fier, then still part of the Ottoman Empire. He emigrated to Romania at an early age and finished high school there. Janura studied law in Italy and graduated in jurisprudence from the University of Pisa. In 1941 he returned to Albania (at that time the Albanian Kingdom under Italy) where he started working as a judge in Gostivar, which had been recently incorporated in the Albanian state. Janura remained in Yugoslavia after World War II. From that moment he was engaged in the development of the Albanian literature and language, literary criticism, and the overall status of the Albanian language within Yugoslavia, and specifically the Republic of Macedonia. He was also a folklorist, having collected and published rare Albanian folklore. As the head of the Albanian Catedra of the University of Skopje, he participated in the Orthography Congress of 1972 and was one of the signatories of the newly established orthographic rules. Janura died on 30 August 1983.\n\nJanura is the author of around 300 articles of three categories: informative-publicity, research studies, and monographs. The first category comprises articles about various literature figures, as Fan Noli, Zef Serembe, Ali Asllani, Mark Gurakuqi, etc. Some of the research articles focus about Voskopojë old scripts and writings, work of Naim Frasheri, Ndre Mjeda, Asdreni, also the Codex of Berat, and the Albanian language in Dubrovnik's archives.\n<br>Janura was very active as a contemporary literature critic, especially of that originating in Yugoslavia. His most important monographs are \"Për historinë e alfabetit shqip\" (For the history of the Albanian alphabet) of 1969 which remains one of the first studies on the diachrony of the Albanian language, and \"Migjeni\" (Migjeni) of 1982, both published in Skopje. The book on Migjeni's work (Millosh Gjergj Nikolla) is a monograph of 326 pages and is one of the first in the history of Albanian literature. It is arranged in four sections. The first covers the poet's life important moments and how they affected his work, the second and largest section covers the poet's work in the prism of the Albanology. The monograph led the way to many following studies on Migjeni's work.\n<br>He was also the co-author of didactic textbooks for elementary schools. and a poetry collections for children.\n\n"}
{"id": "33861495", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33861495", "title": "Philosophy &amp; Social Criticism", "text": "Philosophy &amp; Social Criticism\n\nPhilosophy & Social Criticism is a peer-reviewed academic journal that publishes papers nine times a year in the field of philosophy. The editor-in-chief is David Rasmussen (Boston College). It was established in 1973 and is currently published by SAGE Publications.\n\n\"Philosophy & Social Criticism\" is abstracted and indexed in:\n"}
{"id": "14036769", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14036769", "title": "Pitsa panels", "text": "Pitsa panels\n\nThe Pitsa panels or Pitsa tablets are a group of painted wooden tablets found near Pitsa, Corinthia (Greece). They are the earliest surviving examples of Greek panel painting.\n\nThe four panels, two of them highly fragmentary, were discovered during the 1930s in a cave near the village of Pitsa, in the vicinity of Sicyon. They can be stylistically dated to \"circa\" 540–530 BC, i.e., to the Archaic period of Greek art.\n\nThe tablets are thin wooden boards or panels, covered with stucco (plaster) and painted with mineral pigments. Their bright colours are surprisingly well preserved. Only eight colours (black, white, blue, red, green, yellow, purple and brown) are used, with no shading or gradation of any sort. Probably, the black contour outlines were drawn first and then filled in with colours.\n\nThe tablets depict religious scenes connected with the cult of the nymphs.\n\nOne of the two near-complete examples shows a sacrifice to the nymphs. Three or more females, dressed in chiton and peplos, are approaching an altar to the right. They are accompanied by musicians playing the lyra and aulos. The person nearest the altar appears to be pouring a libation from a jug. A small figure behind her, perhaps a slave, is leading a lamb, the sacrificial victim. An inscription in the Corinthian alphabet names two woman dedicators, Euthydika and Eucholis and states that the tablet, or the depicted offering, is dedicated to the nymphs.\n\nThe second well-preserved tablet also has a written dedication to the nymphs and shows three partially overlapping female figures, perhaps the nymphs themselves.\n\nThe tablets are votive offerings, connected with the rural cult of the nymphs, which was widespread throughout Greece. Stylistically and technically, they probably represent rather low quality panel paintings of their time. This, as well as references to wooden painted or inscribed votives at other Greek sanctuaries (e.g. Epidaurus), indicates that the Pitsa tablets belong to the types of votives available to the lower, or poorer, sections of population. Such simple votives may have been far more numerous originally, but the fact that they are made of perishable materials, whereas richer votives were of stone, bronze or precious metals, has led to their near-total disappearance from the archaeological record.\n\nMost ancient paintings that survived are either frescoes or vase paintings. It is known that panel paintings were held in much higher regard, but very few of them have survived. The best known examples of ancient panel painting, the Fayum mummy portraits and the Severan Tondo, are of Roman date. The Pitsa panels, probably preserved due to the unusual climatic conditions inside the cave, are by far the earliest examples of this technique to survive. As the only pre-Roman specimens, they represent virtually all the evidence for a whole style of art. Incidentally, the ancient Greeks believed that panel painting was invented in Sicyon, not far from Pitsa.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "580161", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=580161", "title": "Pyramid power", "text": "Pyramid power\n\nPyramid power refers to the belief that the ancient Egyptian pyramids and objects of similar shape can confer a variety of benefits. Among these assumed properties are the ability to preserve foods, sharpen or maintain the sharpness of razor blades, improve health, function \"as a thought-form incubator\", trigger sexual urges, and cause other effects. Such unverified theories regarding pyramids are collectively known as pyramidology.\n\nThere is no scientific evidence that pyramid power exists.\n\nIn the 1930s, a French ironmonger and pendulum-dowsing author, Antoine Bovis, developed the idea that small models of pyramids can preserve food. The story persists that Bovis, while standing inside the King's Chamber of the Great Pyramid in Egypt, saw a garbage can inside the chamber piled with dead animals that had wandered into the structure, noticed that these small carcasses were not decaying and inferred that the structure somehow preserved them. However, Bovis never claimed to have visited Egypt. In his self-published French-language booklet Bovis ascribes his discovery to reasoning and experiments in Europe using a dowsing pendulum:\nI have supposed that Egyptians were already very good dowsers and had oriented their pyramid by means of rod and pendulum. Being unable to go there to experiment and verify the radiations of the Keops Pyramid, I have built with cardboard some pyramids that you can see now, and I was astonished when, having built a regular pyramid and oriented it, I found the positive at the East, the negative at the West, and at the North and the South, dual-positive and dual-negative...\n\nA new supposition: since with the help of our positive 2000° magnetic plates we can mummify small animals, could the pyramid have the same property? I tried, and as you can observe with the small fish and the little piece of meat still hanging, I succeeded totally.\nIn 1949, inspired by Bovis, a Czechoslovakian named Karel Drbal applied for a patent on a \"Pharaoh's shaving device\", a model pyramid alleged to maintain the sharpness of razor blades. According to the patent (#91,304), \"The method of maintaining the razor blades and straight razor blades sharp by placing them in the magnetic field in such a way that the sharp edge lies in the direction of the magnetic lines.\" Drbal alleged that his device would focus \"the earth's magnetic field\", although he did not make it clear how this would work, or whether the device's shape or materials exerted the effect.\n\nDrbal's contention that razors could be sharpened or have their sharpness maintained by alignment with Earth's magnetic field was not new. In 1933, \"The Times\" carried letters claiming, \"if I oriented my razor blades…N. and S. by the compass…they tend to last considerably longer\" and \"The idea of keeping razor blades in a magnetic field is not quite new. About the year 1900 I found this out….\"\n\nSheila Ostrander and Lynn Schroeder, authors of the paranormal, visited Czechoslovakia in 1968, where they happened upon a cardboard pyramid manufactured commercially by Drbal. They met Drbal, and dedicated a chapter of their popular 1970 book \"Psychic Discoveries Behind the Iron Curtain\" to pyramid power. This book introduced both the concept of pyramid power and the story about Antoine Bovis to the English-speaking world.\n\nDebate continues over who coined the term \"pyramid power\". Author Max Toth has claimed he coined the phrase, as has Patrick Flanagan. Both authors released books entitled \"Pyramid Power\" in the 1970s. According to Toth, this led to a lawsuit by Flanagan against him.\n\nHowever, the term \"pyramid power\" in its current usage first appeared in print in Sheila Ostrander and Lynn Schroeder's 1970 book \"Psychic Discoveries Behind the Iron Curtain\". Ostrander and Schroeder claim that \"Czechoslovakian researchers\" coined the term in the 1960s.\n\nFlanagan’s book was featured on the cover and in the lyrics of The Alan Parsons Project album \"Pyramid\". \"Pyramania\", a song from the album, mocked the idea of pyramid power.\n\nPyramid power was the subject of a famous spoof by Martin Gardner in his \"Mathematical Games\" column in the \"Scientific American\" issue of June 1974, featuring his favorite characters Dr. Matrix and Iva Matrix.\n\nThe theories behind Pyramid Power convinced the Onan Family, hotel and condo developers in Gurnee, Illinois, to build the \"Pyramid House\" in 1977.\n\nSummerhill Pyramid Winery in Kelowna, British Columbia built a four-story replica of the Great Pyramid, alleged by the winery to improve the quality of wine aged within it.\n\nA religion founded in 1975, called Summum, completed the construction of a pyramid called the Summum Pyramid in Salt Lake City, Utah in 1979.\n\nPyramid power was used by the Toronto Maple Leafs and their coach Red Kelly during the 1975–76 quarter-final series, to counter the Philadelphia Flyers' use of Kate Smith's rendering of \"God Bless America\". Kelly hung a plastic model of a pyramid in the team's clubhouse after a pair of away defeats at the start of the series, and each player took turns standing under it for exactly four minutes. The Maple Leafs managed to win all three of their home matches before losing the series' decisive game seven.\n\nTerry Pratchett's fantasy novel \"Pyramids\" incorporates elements of the theory when an industry develops based around pyramids' ability to stop time.\n\nIt is common in New Age magazines to see advertisements for open metal-poled pyramids large enough to meditate under. The New Age group Share International, founded by Benjamin Creme, practices a form of meditation called 'Transmission Meditation' using an open metal-poled tetrahedron in order to tune into the cosmic energy of Maitreya and other spiritual masters.\n\nThe neurologist and skeptic Terence Hines has written that pyramid power is a pseudoscience and tests have failed to provide any evidence for its claims:\n\nInfluenced by Erich von Däniken’s claims that Egyptian mummies had been preserved by some process unknown to science, pyramid power became quite a craze in the world of pseudoscience for a brief time in the mid-1970s. The idea was that the pyramidal shape itself was magical and filled with a mysterious energy and power... Pyramid power claims have actually been tested. Alter (1973) and Simmons (1973) showed that pyramid-shaped containers were no more effective than any other shape at preserving organic matter (flowers or meat) placed in them. Nor did putting dull razor blades in a pyramid-shaped holder restore them to sharpness, contrary to a frequent claim of pyramid power promoters.\n\nIn 2005, an episode of \"MythBusters\" was aired on the Discovery Channel in which a basic test of pyramid power was performed, using pyramids built to the specifications found in pyramid power claims, reflecting the location of the King's Chamber in the Great Pyramid of Giza. Several claims were tested, concerning food rotting, a flower rotting and a razor blade going dull. With control protocols in place, there was no significant difference between items in pyramids and items outside.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6775816", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6775816", "title": "Robert Malley", "text": "Robert Malley\n\nRobert Malley (born 1963) is an American lawyer, political scientist and specialist in conflict resolution. He is currently the President and CEO at the International Crisis Group in Washington, DC. Prior to holding that title, he served at the National Security Council under Barack Obama from February 2014 until January 2017. Prior to holding that title, he was Program Director for Middle East and North Africa at the International Crisis Group and Assistant to National Security Advisor Sandy Berger (1996–1998) and the Director for Democracy, Human Rights and Humanitarian Affairs at the National Security Council (1994–1996). Malley is considered an expert on the Israeli–Palestinian conflict and has written extensively on this subject advocating rapprochement with Hamas and Muslim Brotherhood. As Special Assistant to President Clinton, he was a member of the U.S. peace team and helped organize the 2000 Camp David Summit. In 2015, the Obama administration appointed Rob Malley as its \"point man\" on the Middle East, leading the Middle East desk of the National Security Council. In November 2015, Malley was named as President Obama's new special ISIS advisor.\n\nRobert Malley was born in 1963 to Barbara (née Silverstein) Malley, a New Yorker who worked for the United Nations delegation of the Algerian National Liberation Front (FNL), and her husband, Simon Malley (1923–2006), an Egyptian-born Jewish journalist who grew up in Egypt and worked as a foreign correspondent for \"Al Gomhuria\". The elder Malley spent time in New York, writing about international affairs, particularly about nationalist, anti-imperial movements in Africa, and made a key contribution by putting the FNL on the world map.\n\nIn 1969, the elder Malley moved his family—including son Robert—to France, where he founded the magazine \"Africasia\" (later known as \"Afrique Asia\").\n\nThe Malleys remained in France until 1980, when then French president Valéry Giscard d'Estaing briefly expelled Simon Malley from the country to New York. \n\nRobert Malley attended Yale University, and was a 1984 Rhodes Scholar at Oxford University, where he earned a Ph.D. in political philosophy. There he wrote his doctoral thesis about Third-worldism and its decline. Malley continued writing about foreign policy, including extended commentary about the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. He earned a J.D. at Harvard Law School, where he met his future wife, Caroline Brown. Another fellow law school student was Barack Obama. In 1991–1992, Malley clerked for Supreme Court Justice Byron White, while Brown clerked for Supreme Court Justice Sandra Day O'Connor. As of 2010, the couple has two sons, Miles and Blaise, and one daughter, Frances.\n\nAfter his Supreme Court clerkship, Malley became a Fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations where he published \"The Call From Algeria: Third Worldism, Revolution, and the Turn to Islam\"—a book that charts Algeria's political evolution from the turn of the 20th century to the present, exploring the historical and intellectual underpinnings of the crisis in Algeria. His book received critical acclaim, and Malley was described as \"exceptionally well read, creative in seeing connections and influences, and gifted with a graceful, if world-weary writing style.\"\n\nMalley served in the Clinton administration as Director for Democracy, Human Rights and Humanitarian Affairs at the National Security Council from 1994–1996. In that post he helped coordinate refugee policy, efforts to promote democracy and human rights abroad and U.S. policy toward Cuba. From 1996–1998 he was Executive Assistant to National Security Advisor Sandy Berger. In October 1998, Malley was appointed Special Assistant to President Clinton for Arab-Israeli Affairs, a post he held until the end of the administration in 2001.\n\nAfter his service with the administration, Malley became Senior Policy Advisor for the Center for Middle East Peace and Economic Development in Washington, D.C. He later became Program Director for Middle East and North Africa at the International Crisis Group in Washington, D.C., directing analysts based in Amman, Cairo, Beirut, Tel Aviv and Baghdad. Malley's team covers events from Iran to Morocco, with a heavy focus on the Arab–Israeli conflict, the situation in Iraq, and Islamist movements throughout the region. Malley also covers developments in the United States that affect policy toward the Middle East. \n\nAccording to Barack Obama's 2008 presidential campaign, Malley provided informal advice to the campaign in the past without having any formal role in the campaign. On May 9, 2008, the campaign severed ties with Malley when the British \"Times\" reported that Malley had been in discussions with the militant Palestinian group Hamas, listed by the U.S. State Department as a terrorist organization. In response, Malley told \"The Times\" he had been in regular contact with Hamas officials as part of his work with the International Crisis Group. \"My job with the International Crisis Group is to meet with all sorts of savory and unsavory people and report on what they say. I've never denied whom I meet with; that's what I do\", Malley told NBC News, adding that he informs the State Department about his meetings beforehand and briefs them afterward. Malley has published many articles in which he calls upon the Israelis (and the international community) to bring Hamas to the negotiating table in order to secure an Israeli–Palestinian ceasefire and insure that any agreement reached with Palestinians will be respected by the Islamist movements in Palestinian society too (see the section Views).\n\nThe \"New York Times\" reported on 18 February 2014 that Malley was joining the Obama administration to consult on Persian Gulf policy as senior director of the National Security Council. On 6 March, the National Security Council announced that Malley would be replacing Philip Gordon as the Special Assistant to the President and White House Coordinator for the Middle East, North Africa and the Gulf Region, effective on 6 April 2015. On November 30, 2015, it was reported that Malley would become the National Security Council's \"ISIS Czar The subject was the lead US negotiator in the 2015 Iran nuclear deal and defended the agreement against a pullout by the Trump administration.\nAfter Obama left office, Malley returned to the International Crisis Group, serving as the new Vice President for Policy. He is currently the President and CEO.\n\nRobert Malley has published several articles on the failed 2000 Camp David Summit in which he participated as a member of the U.S. negotiating team. Malley rejects the mainstream opinion that lays all the blame for the failure of the summit on Arafat and the Palestinian delegation. In his analysis, the main reasons were the tactics of then-Israeli prime minister Ehud Barak and the substance of his proposal which made it impossible for Arafat to accept Barak's offer.\n\nMalley argues that negotiations with the Palestinians today must include Hamas because the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO) is no longer considered the Palestinian people's sole legitimate representative. He describes the PLO as antiquated, worn out, barely functioning, and, because it does not include the broad Islamist current principally represented by Hamas, of questionable authority. Malley favors negotiating with Hamas at least for the purpose of a ceasefire—citing Hamas officials in Gaza who made clear they were prepared for such an agreement with Israel.\n\nHe supports efforts to reach an Israel-Hamas ceasefire which would include an immediate end to Palestinian rocket launches and sniper fire and a freeze on Israeli military attacks on Gaza. Malley's arguments rest on both humanitarian and practical reasons. Malley points to the blockade imposed by Israel on the Gaza Strip has not stopped Hamas's rocket attacks on nearby Israeli towns and notes that the siege has caused millions of Gazans to suffer from lack of medicine, fuel, electricity and other essential commodities, so cease-fire would avoid \"enormous loss of life, a generation of radicalized and embittered Gazans, and another bankrupt peace process.\"\n\nIn addition, Malley calls for Israel, the Palestinians, Lebanon, Syria and other Arab countries to resume negotiations on all tracks based on the Arab Peace Initiative, which promises full Arab recognition and normalization of relations with Israel in the context of a comprehensive peace agreement in exchange for a withdrawal of Israeli forces from the occupied territories to the 1967 borders, the recognition of an independent Palestinian state with East Jerusalem as its capital, and a \"just solution\" for Palestinian refugees.\n\n\"Today, Malley still stands out for his calls to engage in negotiations with Syria and Iran and for finding 'some kind of accommodation' with Hamas\", \"The Jewish Daily Forward\" reported in February 2008.\n\nMalley was criticized by supporters of Israel after co-authoring an article in the July 8, 2001 edition of \"The New York Review of Books\" arguing that the blame for the failure of the 2000 Camp David Summit should be divided among all three leaders who were present at the summit, Arafat, Barak, and Bill Clinton, not just Arafat, as was suggested by some mainstream policy analysts. \"Later, however, other scholars and former officials voiced similar views to those of Malley\", according to a February 20, 2008 article in \"The Jewish Daily Forward\".\n\nMalley and his views have come under attack from other critics, such as Martin Peretz of the magazine \"The New Republic\", who has opined that Malley is \"anti-Israel\", a \"rabid hater of Israel. No question about it\", and that several of his articles in the \"New York Review of Books\" were \"deceitful.\" On the conservative webzine \"The American Thinker\", Ed Lasky asserted that Malley \"represents the next generation of anti-Israel activism.\"\n\nMalley told the \"Jewish Daily Forward\" that \"it tends to cross the line when it becomes as personal and as un-based in facts as some of these have been.\" While he loved and respected his father, he said, their views sometimes differed, and it is \"an odd guilt by association\" fallacy to criticize him based on his father's views. Simon Malley was called a sympathizer of the PLO by Daniel Pipes.\n\nIn response to what they called \"vicious, personal attacks\" on Malley, five Jewish, former U.S. government officials—former National Security Advisor Sandy Berger, Ambassador Martin Indyk, Ambassador Daniel C. Kurtzer, Ambassador Dennis Ross, and former State Department Senior Advisor Aaron David Miller—published a letter (dated February 12, 2008) in the \"New York Review of Books\" defending Malley. They wrote that the attacks on Malley were \"unfair, inappropriate, and wrong\", and objected to what they called an attempt \"to undermine the credibility of a talented public servant who has worked tirelessly over the years to promote Arab–Israeli peace and US national interests.\" This view is also shared by M.J. Rosenberg, Director of Policy for Israel Policy Forum and a former editor at the American Israel Public Affairs Committee, who condemned the attacks on Malley, writing that Malley is \"pro-Israel\" and the only reason he is being criticized is because he supports Israeli–Palestinian negotiations.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "996630", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=996630", "title": "Senpai and kōhai", "text": "Senpai and kōhai\n\nSenpai (, \"earlier colleague\") and kōhai (, \"later colleague\") are terms from the Japanese language describing an informal hierarchical interpersonal relationship found in organizations, associations, clubs, businesses, and schools in Japan. The concept is based in Japanese philosophy and has permeated Japanese society.\n\nThe relationship is an interdependent one, as a \"senpai\" requires a \"kōhai\" and vice versa, and establishes a bond determined by the date of entry to an organization. The \"kōhai\" defers to the \"senpai\"s seniority and experience, and speaks to the \"senpai\" using honorific language.\n\nThe relationship is an interdependent one, as a \"senpai\" requires a \"kōhai\" and vice versa, and establishes a bond determined by the date of entry to an organization. \"Senpai\" refers to the member of higher experience, hierarchy, level, or age in the organization who offers assistance, friendship, and counsel to a new or inexperienced member, known as the \"kōhai\", who must demonstrate gratitude, respect, and occasionally personal loyalty. The \"Senpai\" acts at the same time as a friend. This relation is similar to the interpersonal relation between tutor and tutored in Eastern culture, but differs in that the \"senpai\" and \"kōhai\" must work in the same organization.\n\nThe relation originates in Confucian teaching, as well as the morals and ethics that have arrived in Japan from ancient China and have spread throughout various aspects of Japanese philosophy. The \"senpai–kōhai\" relation is a vertical hierarchy (like a father–son relation) that emphasizes respect for authority, for the chain of command, and for one's elders, eliminating all forms of internal competition and reinforcing the unity of the organization.\n\nOver time this mechanism has allowed the transfer of experience and knowledge, as well as the expansion of acquaintances, to maintaining the art of teaching alive. It also allows the development of beneficial experiences between both, as the \"kōhai\" benefits from the \"senpai\"s knowledge and the \"senpai\" learns new experiences from the \"kōhai\" by way of developing a sense of responsibility. This comradeship does not imply friendship; a \"senpai\" and \"kōhai\" may become friends, but such is not an expectation.\n\nThe Korean terms \"seonbae\" and \"hubae\" are written with the same Chinese characters and indicate a similar senior–junior relationship. The terms may have derived from Japanese, and may have had Chinese origins, though the \"senpai–kōhai\" relationship does not exist in Chinese culture. However, it is close to the system of sifu–student system of Chinese martial arts.\n\nThe \"senpai–kōhai\" system has existed since the beginning of Japanese history. Three elements have had a significant impact on its development: Confucianism, the traditional Japanese family system, and the Civil Code of 1898.\n\nConfucianism arrived from China between the 6th and 9th centuries, but the derived line of thought that brought about deep social changes in Japan was Neo-Confucianism, which became the official doctrine of the Tokugawa shogunate (1603–1867). The precepts of loyalty and filial piety as tribute ( \"\") dominated the Japanese at the time, as respect for elders and ancestor worship that Chinese Confucianism taught were well accepted by the Japanese, and these influences have spread throughout daily life. Like other Chinese influences, the Japanese adopted these ideas selectively and in their own manner, so that the \"loyalty\" in Confucianism was taken as loyalty to a feudal lord or the Emperor.\n\nThe Japanese family system ( \"\") was also regulated by Confucian codes of conduct and had an influence on the establishment of the \"senpai–kōhai\" relation. In this family system the father, as male head, had absolute power over the family and the eldest son inherited the family property. The father had power because he was the one to receive an education and was seen to have superior ethical knowledge. Since reverence for superiors was considered a virtue in Japanese society, the wife and children had to obey it. In addition to the hereditary system, only the eldest son could receive his father's possessions, and neither the eldest daughter nor the younger children received anything from him.\n\nThe last factor influencing the \"senpai–kōhai\" system was the Civil Code of 1898, which strengthened the rules of privilege of seniority and reinforced the traditional family system, giving clear definitions of hierarchical values within the family. This was called \"koshusei\" (, \"family-head system\"), in which the head of the household had the right to command his family and the eldest son inherited that position. These statutes were abolished in 1947, after the surrender of Japan at the end of World War II. These ideals nevertheless remained during the following years as a psychological influence in Japanese society.\n\nThe seniority rules are reflected in various grammatical rules in the Japanese language. A person who speaks respectfully to a superior uses honorific language ( \"), which is divided into three categories:\n\n\n\"Sonkeigo\" and \"kenjōgo\" have expressions (verbs, nouns, and special prefixes) particular to the type of language; for example, the ordinary Japanese verb for \"to do\" is \"suru\", but in \"sonkeigo\" is \"nasaru\" and in \"kenjōgo\" is \"itasu\".\n\nAnother rule in the hierarchical relation is the use of honorific suffixes of address. A \"senpai\" addresses a \"kōhai\" with the suffix \"-kun\" after the \"kōhai\"s given name or surname, regardless if the \"kōhai\" is male or female. A \"kōhai\" similarly addresses a \"senpai\" with the suffix \"-senpai\" or \"-san\"; it is extremely unusual for a \"kōhai\" to refer to a \"senpai\" with the suffix \"-sama\", which indicates the highest level of respect to the person spoken to.\n\nOne place the \"senpai–kōhai\" relation applies to its greatest extent in Japan is in schools. For example, in junior and senior high schools (especially in school clubs) third-year students (who are the oldest) demonstrate great power as \"senpais\". It is common in school sports clubs for new \"kōhais\" to have to perform basic tasks such as retrieving balls, cleaning playing fields, taking care of equipment, and even wash elder students' clothes. They must also bow to or salute their \"senpais\" when congratulated, and \"senpais\" may punish \"kōhais\" or treat them severely.\n\nThe main reason for these humble actions is that it is believed that team members can become good players only if they are submissive, obedient, and follow the orders of the trainer or captain, and thus become a humble, responsible, and cooperative citizen in the future. Relations in Japanese schools also place a stronger emphasis on the age than on the abilities of students. The rules of superiority between a \"senpai\" and a \"kōhai\" are analogous to the teacher–student relation, in which the age and experience of the teacher must be respected and never questioned.\n\nThe \"senpai–kōhai\" relation is weaker in universities, as students of a variety of ages attend the same classes; students show respect to older members primarily through polite language (\"teineigo\"). Vertical seniority rules nevertheless prevail between teachers based on academic rank and experience.\n\nThe \"senpai–kōhai\" system also prevails in Japanese businesses. The social environment in Japanese businesses is regulated by two standards: the system of superiority and the system of permanent employment. The status, salary, and position of employees depend heavily of seniority, and veteran employees generally take the highest positions and receive higher salaries than their subordinates. Until the turn of the 20th and 21st centuries, employment was guaranteed for life and thus such employees did not have to worry about losing their positions.\n\nThe \"senpai–kōhai\" relation is a cornerstone in interpersonal relations within the Japanese business world; for example, at meetings the lower-level employee should sit in the seat closest to the door, called \"shimoza\" (, \"lower seat\"), while the senior employee (sometimes the boss) sits next to some important guest in a position called \"kamiza\" (, \"upper seat\"). During meetings, most employees do not give their opinions, but simply listen and concur with their superiors, although they can express opinions with the prior consent of the employees of greater rank and influence in the company.\n\nOutside Japan, the \"senpai–kōhai\" relation is often found in the teaching of Japanese martial arts, though misunderstandings arise due to lack of historical knowledge, and as the vertical social hierarchy of Japan does not exist in Western cultures.\n\nDespite the \"senpai–kōhai\" relation's deep roots in Japanese society, there have been changes since the end of the 20th century in academic and business organizations. \"Kōhais\" no longer show as much respect to the experience of their \"senpais\", the relation has become more superficial, and the age factor has begun to lose importance. The student body has diversified with Japanese students who have spent a large part of their lives overseas and have returned to Japan, as well as foreign students without a mentality rooted in the Japanese hierarchical system.\n\nThe collapse of the economic bubble in the early 1990s caused a high level of unemployment, including the laying off of high-ranked employees. Companies since then first began to consider employees' skills rather than age or length of service with the company, due to which many long-serving employees lost their positions over being incapable of fulfilling expectations. Gradually many companies have had to restructure their salary and promotion systems, and seniority has thus lost some influence in Japanese society.\n\nAttitudes towards the \"senpai–kōhai\" system vary from appreciation for traditions and the benefits of a good \"senpai–kōhai\" relationship; to reluctant acquiescence; to antipathy. Those who criticize the system find it arbitrary and unfair, that \"senpais\" were often pushy, and that the system results in students who are shy or afraid of standing out from the group. For example, some \"kōhais\" fear that if they outperform their \"senpais\" in an activity, their \"senpai\" will lose face, for which \"kōhais\" must apologize. In some cases, the relation is open to violence and bullying. Most Japanese people—even those who criticize it—accept the \"senpai–kōhai\" system as common-sense aspect of society, straying from which will have inevitably negative social consequences.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55360808", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55360808", "title": "Thought-Forms (book)", "text": "Thought-Forms (book)\n\nThought-Forms: A Record of Clairvoyant Investigation is a theosophical book compiled by the members of the Theosophical Society A. Besant and C. W. Leadbeater. It was originally published in 1901 in London. From the standpoint of Theosophy, it tells regarding visualization of thoughts, experiences, emotions and music. Drawings of the \"thought-forms\" were performed by painters Varley, Prince, and McFarlane.\n\nThis book has become the result of the joint work of the authors, which began in 1895, when they had started an investigation of \"the subtle matter of the universe.\" They were interested the work of the human mind as, according their claim, this work \"extrudes into the external world\" the thought-forms.\n\nIn September 1896, Besant reported in \"Lucifer\" that \"two clairvoyant Theosophists\" (whose personalities were not disclosed in the journal, although some members of the Society knew about them) had started \"observing the substance of thought.\" Her article named \"Thought-Forms\" was accompanied by four pages of pictures of diverse thought-forms which the investigators \"had observed and described to an artist.\" The colour sketches of the unknown performance were depicting: on the first plate—thought-forms of \"devotion,\" \"sacrifice,\" and \"devotional,\" on the second one—three types of \"anger,\" on the third one—three types of \"love\" (\"undirected,\" \"directed,\" and \"grasping\"), and on the fourth one—thought-forms of \"jealousy,\" \"intellect,\" and \"ambition.\" Besant gave the article scientific coloring, not forgetting to mention Röntgen, Baraduc, Reichenbach, \"vibrations and the ether.\"\n\nThis \"small but influential book\", which contains color pictures of thought-forms that the authors said are created \"in subtle spirit-matter,\" was published in 1901. The book affirms that \"the quality\" of thoughts influences the life experience of their creator, and that they \"can affect\" other people.\n\nThe authors write that they, like many theosophists, are convinced that \"thoughts are things,\" and the task of their book is to help the reader understand this. The frontispiece of the book contains a table \"The meanings of colours\" of thought-forms and human aura associated with feelings and emotions, beginning with \"High Spirituality\" (light blue—in the upper left corner) and ending by \"Malice\" (black—in the lower right corner), 25 colors in all. The authors argue that human aura is \"the outer part of the cloud-like substance of his higher bodies, interpenetrating each other, and extending beyond the confines of his physical body.\" The mental and desire bodies (two human higher bodies) are \"those chiefly concerned with the appearance of what are called thought-forms.\"\n\nThe book states that \"the production of all thought-forms\" is based on three major principles:\n\n\nThe authors define the following three classes of thought-forms:\n\n\n\"To paint in earth's dull colours the forms clothed in the living light of other worlds, — Besant writes in the foreword, — is a hard and thankless task.\" The authors claim that the images in the book \"are not imaginary forms, prepared as some dreamer thinks that they ought to appear.\" Rather, \"they\nare representations of forms actually observed as thrown off by ordinary men and women.\" And the authors sincerely hope that they will force the reader \"realise the nature and power of his thoughts, acting as a stimulus to the noble, a curb on the base.\"\n\nIn Fig. 13 shows the thought-form created by \"a strong craving for personal possession.\" Its color has dull unpleasing hue \"deadened with the heavy tint indicative of selfishness.\" The curving hooks are its especially characteristic. Creator this thought-form had never \"conception of the self-sacrificing love which pours itself out in joyous service,\" no thinking of return.\n\nThe authors write that a form in Fig. 19 at the top is a specific thought-form which had accompanied a question demonstrating deep thought and penetration. The first variant of the answer did not fully satisfy the questioner, and his desire to achieve a full and comprehensive answer was expressed in the fact that his \"thought-form deepened in colour and changed into the second of the two shapes (in Fig. 19 below), resembling a corkscrew even more closely than before.\"\n\nFig. 22 and 23 are thought-forms of a \"murderous rage\" (on the right) and a \"sustained anger\" (on the left). The first form was taken \"from the aura of a rough and partially intoxicated man in the East End of London,\" when he was knocking down a woman; a flare flashed in her direction, triggering an explosion of horror—she recognized that one would be struck. In the same illustration drawned a \"stiletto-like dart\" directed to the lower left corner: it is a thought \"of steady anger, intense and desiring vengeance, of the quality of murder, sustained through years, and directed against a person who had inflicted a deep injury on the one who sent it forth.\"\nThe authors state that when a person is suddenly frightened, then has a place the effect shown in Fig. 27. It is emphasized that \"all the crescents\" on the right, which apparently have been emitted earlier than others, do not show anything other than \"the livid grey of fear; but a moment later the man is already partially recovering from the shock, and beginning to feel angry that he allowed himself to be startled.\" The later crescents have changed to scarlet, and it evidences the \"mingling of anger and fear,\" while the last crescent is quite scarlet, and it shows that \"already the fright is entirely overcome, and only the annoyance remains.\"\n\nBeginning from Fig. 30, \"the book changes course in an interesting way,\" moving from the illustrations of individual thoughts and emotions to the narrative of events. Besant and Leadbeater write that occasioned by a \"terrible accident\" at sea, three thought-forms depicted in Fig. 30 \"were seen simultaneously, arranged exactly as represented, though in the midst of indescribable confusion.\" The authors continue:\n\"They are instructive as showing how differently people are affected by sudden and serious danger. One form [on the right] shows nothing but an eruption of the livid grey of fear, rising out of a basis of utter selfishness: and unfortunately there were many such as this. The shattered appearance of the thought-form shows the violence and completeness of the explosion, which in turn indicates that the whole soul of that person was possessed with blind, frantic terror, and that the overpowering sense of personal danger excluded for the time every higher feeling.\"\n\nThe authors explain that the thought-form in Fig. 30 on the left shows an attempt to find \"solace in prayer,\" and in this way overcome fear. This can be seen under a grayish-blue color, \"which lifts itself hesitatingly upwards.\" Yet it is seen that judging by \"the lower part of the thought-form, with its irregular outline and its falling fragments, that there is in reality almost as much fright here\" as in the case on the right. Thus, one person has a chance to restore \"self-control,\" while the other remains \"an abject slave to overwhelming emotion.\" The thought-form at upper has been created by a member of the ship crew responsible for the lives of passengers, and it demonstrates a \"very striking contrast\" of the weakness manifesting in two forms from below. Herein shown \"a powerful, clear-cut and definite thought, obviously full\" of energy and determination. Orange color speaks of his confidence in ability to manage with the difficulty. The \"brilliant yellow\" means that his intellect is already at work upon the problem. \n\nFig. 31 is another declarative piece, depicting \"the thought-form of an actor while waiting to go upon the stage.\" The authors expound that the orange band indicates self-confidence,\n\"yet in spite of this there is a good deal of unavoidable uncertainty as to how this new play may strike the fickle public, and on the whole the doubt and fear overbalance the certainty and pride, for there is more of the pale grey than of the orange, and the whole thought-form vibrates like a flag flapping in a gale of wind.\" \n\nIn the thought-form on the left in Fig. 34, as the authors explain, there is nothing but \"the highest and most beautiful\" feelings. At the base of the thought-form, you can see \"a full expression of deep sympathy,\" the light green color shows the understanding of the suffering of the deceased's relatives and condolence with them, and the strip \"of deeper green shows the attitude of the thinker towards the dead man himself.\" The dense rose-color shows love to both the deceased and the surrounding, while the upper part, consisting of a cone and stars above it, indicates a feeling in connection with thoughts of death: the blue express \"its devotional aspect,\" while as \"the violet shows the thought of, and the power to respond to, a noble ideal\" and the ability to match, the stars reflect \"the spiritual aspirations.\" In the same figure, the thought-form on the right reflects nothing but only \"profound depression, fear and selfishness.\" His only definite feelings are despair and the sense of his personal loss, and these show themselves in proper strips of brown-grey and leaden grey color, while the \"very curious downward protrusion\" demonstrates the strong selfish desire to raise the dead man into his earth life.\n\nThe description of the event depicted in the book on Fig. 38, as noted a historian Breen, \"anticipates the 1960s\" as well with its conjunction of meditation and idealism: this thought-form was \"generated by one who was trying, while sitting in meditation, to fill his mind with an aspiration to enfold all mankind in order to draw them upward towards the high ideal which shone so clearly before his eyes.\" The ability of the authors to see the \"vibrations of ideas, emotions, and sounds\" demonstrates, in his opinion, \"a sort of spiritual synesthesia\" which transform the religious act into a neurological phenomenon.\nThe authors write that the thought-form shown in Fig. 41 was accompanied by \"the devotional aspiration\" to that Logos may thus be manifested through the man in meditation. It is this religious feeling gives a \"pale blue\" shade to the five-pointed star. This form has been used \"for many ages as a symbol of God manifest in man.\"\n\nPlate M showing the form created by music of Mendelssohn \"depicts yellow, red, blue and green lines rising out of a church.\" This, as the authors explain, \"signifies the movement of one of the parts of the melody, the four moving approximately together denoting the treble, alto, tenor and bass respectively.\" Moreover, \"the scalloped edging surrounding the whole is the result of various flourishes and arpeggios, and the floating crescents in the centre represent isolated or staccato chords.\"\n\nOn Plate G depicts a musical form to the piece by Gounod. Describing a musical form \"created\" by Wagner (on Plate W), the authors note in it the likeness to the \"successively retreating\" ramparts of a mountain, \"and it is heightened by the billowy masses of cloud which roll between the crags and give the effect of perspective.\"\n\nAccording to professor Ellwood, the book by Besant and Leadbeater had a large influence on modern art. \"It suggested, to a world moving rapidly beyond the literalism of Victorian art, the expression in painting of surreal forms and forces underlying, but different from, the visible world.\" \"Thought-Forms\" demonstrated how the symbolism of \"astral colors and forms\" can express the specificity of \"certain soul's and mental states.\" It had a great influence on Kandinsky as one of the essential factors that led to the \"genius opening of new perspectives for painting.\"\n\nAccording to reminiscences by Sabaneyev, besides \"The Secret Doctrine\" Scriabin interested a magazine \"Vestnik Theosofii,\" which published [from 1908] the translations of Besant and Leadbeater's works. Apparently, being impressed by theirs theosophical works, he once said that \"strong, powerful thought creates a thought-form so intense that it, in addition to the will, flows into the consciousness of other people.\" The perform of the part of light in he imagined in the form of a radiance of some \"luminous matter,\" which was supposed to fill the hall.\n\nA historian Breen wrote that Besant and Leadbeater were well aware how annoying stuff may be their book for a \"society that remained deeply conservative.\" In early January 1901, when this book was published, \"Queen Victoria still ruled England. 'Modernism' as a movement or even a concept did not exist. When we consider this world of 1901, – further wrote Breen, – it becomes difficult not to believe that Besant, Leadbeater and their milieu deserve a more prominent place in the annals of both abstract art and the history of modernism.\" As the art critic Kramer has pointed, \"what is particularly striking about the outlook of the artists primarily responsible for creating abstraction is their espousal of occult doctrine.\" Yeats, Eliot, Malevich, Kandinsky, and Mondrian were charmed by Theosophy. In the first decades of the twentieth century, it was a widespread \"component of Western cultural life.\"\n\nThus, Besant and Ledbetter had played, summed up Breen, \"a small but intriguing role in shaping the globalized culture... which weaves together East and West, mysticism and rationalism, sound and sight.\"\n\nAn academic science names the activities of such \"investigators,\" as the authors of this book, \"pseudoscience\", because it based on a concept of the extrasensory perception. The belief in existence of thought-forms \"remains influential today\" for the Theosophists, followers of New Thought, New Age and in neopagan movements, including Wicca.\n\nAfter its first publication in 1901 the book was reprinted several times (8th – in 1971). This work has been translated into several European languages: French, German, Italian, Portuguese, Russian, Spanish.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50609686", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50609686", "title": "Timeline of women's legal rights in the United States (other than voting)", "text": "Timeline of women's legal rights in the United States (other than voting)\n\nTimeline of women's legal rights in the United States (other than voting) represents formal legal changes and reforms regarding women's rights in the United States. That includes actual law reforms as well as other formal changes, such as reforms through new interpretations of laws by precedents. The right to vote is exempted from the timeline: for that right, see \"Timeline of women's suffrage in the United States\". The timeline also excludes ideological changes and events within feminism and antifeminism: for that, see \"Timeline of feminism in the United States\". \n\n\n\nIn places like Washington D.C., where the federal government had direct jurisdiction, the act also made it a misdemeanor, punishable by fine and imprisonment, to sell, give away, or have in possession any \"obscene\" publication. Half of the states passed similar anti-obscenity statutes that also banned possession and sale of obscene materials, including contraceptives.\n\nThe law was named after its chief proponent, Anthony Comstock. Due to his own personal enforcement of the law during its early days, Comstock received a commission from the postmaster general to serve as a special agent for the U.S. Postal Services.\n\n\n\n\nThe law provides (in part) that:\n\n\nIn very narrowly defined situations, an employer is permitted to discriminate on the basis of a protected trait where the trait is a bona fide occupational qualification (BFOQ) reasonably necessary to the normal operation of that particular business or enterprise. To prove the bona fide occupational qualifications defense, an employer must prove three elements: a direct relationship between the protected trait and the ability to perform the duties of the job, the BFOQ relates to the \"essence\" or \"central mission of the employer's business\", and there is no less-restrictive or reasonable alternative (\"United Automobile Workers v. Johnson Controls, Inc.\", 111 S.Ct. 1196). The Bona Fide Occupational Qualification exception is an extremely narrow exception to the general prohibition of discrimination based on protected traits (\"Dothard v. Rawlinson\", 97 S.Ct. 2720). An employer or customer's preference for an individual of a particular religion is not sufficient to establish a Bona Fide Occupational Qualification (\"Equal Employment Opportunity Commission v. Kamehameha School – Bishop Estate\", 990 F.2d 458 (9th Cir. 1993)). There are partial and whole exceptions to Title VII for four types of employers:\n\nAlthough the Bill of Rights does not explicitly mention \"privacy\", Justice William O. Douglas wrote for the majority that the right was to be found in the \"penumbras\" and \"emanations\" of other constitutional protections, such as the self-incrimination clause of the Fifth Amendment. Justice Arthur Goldberg wrote a concurring opinion in which he used the Ninth Amendment in support of the Supreme Court's ruling. Justice Arthur Goldberg and Justice John Marshall Harlan II wrote concurring opinions in which they argued that privacy is protected by the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. Justice Byron White also wrote a concurrence based on the due process clause.\n\n\n\nFailure to comply with the Equal Credit Opportunity Act's Regulation B can subject a financial institution to civil liability for actual and punitive damages in individual or class actions. Liability for punitive damages can be as much as $10,000 in individual actions and the lesser of $500,000 or 1% of the creditor's net worth in class actions.\n"}
{"id": "31773097", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31773097", "title": "Well Loved Tales", "text": "Well Loved Tales\n\nWell Loved Tales was a series of illustrated re-tellings of fairy tales and other traditional stories published by Ladybird between 1964 and the early 1990s. The books were labelled as \"easy reading\" and were graded depending on such aspects as their length, complexity and vocabulary. Most of the stories in the series were based on stories by Hans Christian Andersen, the Brothers Grimm and Charles Perrault, alongside a number of traditional English folk tales such as \"Jack and the Beanstalk\" and \"The Three Little Pigs\". The first title in the series was \"Cinderella\", and over the next decade, twenty seven titles were published, all written by Vera Southgate. In 1979, with the publication of \"The Ugly Duckling\", \"Pinocchio\" and \"Tom Thumb.\"\nin the series, the look and format of the books changed. The books now universally featured a green spine and back cover, as well as a standard logo. The series also broke with the Ladybird tradition of having a left page of just text and a right page of just picture, and the illustrations became more stylised than the previous editions. Older titles were gradually re-illustrated over the years. Under this new look, even more titles retold by a variety of different editors and authors came to be added over the course of the 1980s, with popular stories including \"Hansel and Gretel\", \"The Little Mermaid\" and \"The Wizard of Oz\".\n\nThe series gradually went out of print in the early 1990s, yet the current \"Ladybird Tales\" series has reused some of the original Well Loved Tales texts.\n\nTitles in the series were translated into many different languages including Arabic, German and French. Eventually sales in the series sold upwards of 80 million copies worldwide. The older books have been known to fetch quite high prices on the secondhand market; for example, first editions of \"Cinderella\" with a dust jacket have been known to go for as much as £150.\n\nPerhaps due to the nostalgia for some of the earlier titles in the series, later editions with more stylised illustrations are often held by some with lesser regard. Equally, the original editions of the 1960s and 1970s have been criticised for their illustrations for being lifeless and not leaving much to the imagination. Equally, some have raised concerns over the drastic abridging of longer stories such as \"Pinocchio\" and the right to retelling distinctly literary fairy tales with a clear author such as Hans Christian Andersen.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20591335", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20591335", "title": "White-Washing Race", "text": "White-Washing Race\n\nWhite-Washing Race: The Myth of a Color-Blind Society is a book arguing that racial discrimination is still evident on contemporary American society. The book draws on the fields of sociology, political science, economics, criminology, and legal studies. The authors argue that the inequalities which prevail in America today, especially with regard to wages, income, and access to housing and health care, are the effects of either cultural or individual failures.\n\nThe book provides an alternative explanation: that racism—particularly institutionalized racism—is as much a problem in America as in earlier times. Such inequalities continue to exist in the labor market, the welfare state, the criminal justice system, and schools and universities. The book recounts the history of advancement among black Americans since the 1960s, and current anti-discrimination policies, but advocates new policies for increased racial equality in a post-affirmative action world.\n\nMichael K. Brown and David Wellman are currently professors at UC Santa Cruz. Marjorie M. Schultz and Troy Duster are Professors at UC Berkeley, while Elliott Currie is a Professor in the Department of Criminology, Law and Society at UC Irvine. Troy Duster is also a Professor at New York University. David B. Oppenheimer is Associate Dean for Academic Affairs and Professor of Law at Golden Gate University in San Francisco. Martin Carnoy is currently employed at Stanford University as a Professor of Education and Economics.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1273556", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1273556", "title": "Yidam", "text": "Yidam\n\nYidam is a type of deity associated with tantric or Vajrayana Buddhism said to be manifestations of Buddhahood or enlightened mind. During personal meditation (\"sādhana\") practice, the yogi identifies their own form, attributes and mind with those of a yidam for the purpose of transformation. Yidam is sometimes translated by the terms \"meditational deity\" or \"tutelary deity\". Examples of yidams include the meditation deities Chakrasamvara, Kalachakra, Hevajra, Yamantaka, and Vajrayogini, all of whom have a distinctive iconography, mandala, mantra, rites of invocation and practice.\n\nIn Vajrayana, the yidam is one of the three roots of the \"inner\" refuge formula and is also the key element of Deity yoga since the 'deity' in the yoga is the yidam.\n\nYidam is said to be a contraction of Tib. \"yid-kyi-dam-tshig\", meaning \"samaya of mind\"- in other words, the state of being indestructibly bonded with the inherently pure and liberated nature of mind.\n\nThe Sanskrit word ' or ' a compound of \"iṣṭa\" (desired, liked, reverenced) + \"devatā\" (a deity or divine being) is a term associated with yidam in many popular books on Buddhist Tantra but has not been attested in any Buddhist tantric text in Sanskrit. \n\nThe yidam appears as one of the Three Roots in the Tibetan Buddhist 'Inner' refuge formulation. The iconography of the yidam may be 'peaceful', 'wrathful' (Tibetan \"tro wa\") or 'neither peaceful or wrathful' (Tibetan:\" shi ma tro\"), depending on the practitioner's own nature. The yidam represents awakening and so its appearance reflects whatever is required by the practitioner in order to awaken. The guru will guide the student as to which yidam is appropriate for them and then initiation into the mandala of the Ishta-deva is given by the guru, so that Deity Yoga practices can be undertaken. In essence, the mindstream of the guru and the yidam are indivisible. The yidam is considered to be the root of success in the practice.\n\nThe Vajrayana traditions of China, Korea and Japan, while smaller and less prominent than Indo-Tibetan tantric Buddhism, are characterized in part by the utilization of yidams in meditation, though they use their own terms. One prominent ishta-devata in East Asian vajrayana is Marici (Ch: \"Molichitian\", Jp: \"Marishi-ten\"). In the Shingon tradition of Japan, prominent yidam include the \"five mysteries of Vajrasattva,\" which are Vajrasattva (Jp. \"Kongosatta\"), Surata/Ishta-vajrinī (Jp. \"Yoku-kongonyo\"\"慾金剛女\"), Kelikilā-vajrinī (Jp. \"Shoku-kongonyo\"\"触金剛女\"), Kāmā/Rāga-vajrinī ((Jp. \"Ai-kongonyo\"\"愛金剛女\"), and Kāmesvarā/Mana-vajrinī ((Jp. \"Man-kongonyo\"\"慢金剛女\").\n\nThe principal yidam in the Newar Vajrayana tradition of Nepal are Chakrasamvara and Vajravarahi. In that tradition, three components are essential to a temple complex: a main shrine symbolizing Svayambhu Mahachaitya; an exoteric shrine featuring Buddha Shakyamuni and other buddhas and bodhisattvas; and an esoteric shrine dedicated to the yidam, to which only initiates may be admitted.\n\nAccording to \"The Tonglen and Mind Training Site\" which discusses Tonglen and Ngöndro, Yidam is:\n\nVisualized representative of your enlightened energy, or Buddha-nature. Tricky concept for Westerners; closest concept might be that of a patron saint in Catholicism, except that a yidam is not a historical figure and is not necessarily supposed to 'exist' in the same way human beings do. Other related concepts might be a totem or power animal in the Native American tradition, or even the fairy godmother in children's tales.\nDuring the (meditation) practice of the generation stage, a practitioner (sadhaka) establishes a strong familiarity with the Ishta-deva (an enlightened being) by means of visualization and a high level of concentration. During the practice of the completion stage, a practitioner focusses on methods to actualize the transformation of one's own mindstream and body into the meditation Deity by meditation and yogic techniques of energy-control such as kundalini (tummo in Tibetan). Through these complementary disciplines of generation and completion one increasingly perceives the pervasive Buddha nature.\n\nJudith Simmer-Brown summarises: \n... a yidam, a personal meditational deity, a potent ritual symbol simultaneously representing the mind of the guru and lineage of enlightened teachers, and the enlightened mind of the tantric practitioner. Recognizing the inseparability of these two is the ground of tantric practice.\nBerzin (1997: unpaginated) in discussing Buddhist refuge commitment and bodhisattva vows frames a caution to sadhana:\n\nMore specifically, this commitment means not taking ultimate refuge in gods or spirits. Buddhism, particularly in its Tibetan form, often contains ritual ceremonies, or pujas, directed toward various Buddha-figures or fierce protectors in order to help dispel obstacles and accomplish constructive purposes. Performing these ceremonies provides conducive circumstances for negative potentials to ripen in trivial rather than major obstacles, and positive potentials to ripen sooner rather than later. If we have built up overwhelmingly negative potentials, however, these ceremonies are ineffective in averting difficulties. Therefore, propitiating gods, spirits, protectors or even Buddhas is never a substitute for attending to our karma – avoiding destructive conduct and acting in a constructive manner. Buddhism is not a spiritual path of protector-worship, or even Buddha-worship. The safe direction of the Buddhist path is working to become a Buddha ourselves.\n\nIn the Vajrayana practices of Tibetan Buddhism, 'safe direction', or 'refuge' is undertaken through the Three Roots, the practitioner relying on an Ishta-deva in Deity Yoga as a means of becoming a Buddha.\n\nSome common yidams include Hayagriva, Vajrakilaya (Dorje Phurba), Samputa, Guhyasamaja, Yamantaka, Hevajra, Kurukulla, Cakrasamvara, Vajrayogini, and Kalachakra. Also, other enlightened beings such as the regular forms of the Buddhas, Bodhisattvas, Padmasambhava, certain Dharmapalas, Dakinis, Wealth Deities, and yab-yum representations, among others, can also be practiced as a yidam. Avalokiteshvara, Tara, Manjusri, Hevajra and consort Nairatmya, Heruka-Chakrasamvara and consort Vajravarahi, etc. are frequently chosen as yidams, but any deity of the tantric pantheon may be adopted as such. The yidam is used as a means or a goal of transformation towards full enlightenment. According to certain traditions, the Ishtadevas are considered as the emanation of the adept's own mind.\n\n\n"}
