{"id": "42256206", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42256206", "title": "1934 Monaco Grand Prix", "text": "1934 Monaco Grand Prix\n\nThe 1934 Monaco Grand Prix (formally the VI Grand Prix de Monaco) was a Grand Prix motor race held on 2 April 1934 at Circuit de Monaco in and out of Monte Carlo. The race comprised 100 laps of a 3.180km circuit, for a total race distance of 318.0km.\n\nThe Association Internationale des Automobile Clubs Reconnus (AIACR) had announced on 12 October 1932 that a new Grand Prix formula will go into effect for the 1934 season, and the 1934 Monaco Grand Prix was the first Grand Épreuve event run under the new regulations. Although one of the new rules required the race distance to be over 500 km, Monaco GP was permitted to be run for 100 laps or 318 km, as the time required to complete 100 laps at the slow Circuit de Monaco was comparable to 500 km at faster tracks such as Monza.\n\nThe race was won by Guy Moll, a newly recruited Algerian of Scuderia Ferrari, driving an Alfa Romeo Tipo B/P3. In addition to winning the very first race after the enrollment to the Ferrari team, Moll (at 23 years and 10 months old) remained the youngest driver to have won a Monaco GP until Lewis Hamilton (at 23 years and 4 months) won in 2008.\n\nFastest Lap: Carlo Felice Trossi (Alfa Romeo Tipo B/P3), 2m00s\n"}
{"id": "37263754", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37263754", "title": "2012 Open de Suède Vårgårda TTT", "text": "2012 Open de Suède Vårgårda TTT\n\nThe 2012 Open de Suède Vårgårda – team time trial was the 5th team time trial running on the Open de Suède Vårgårda. It was held on 17 August 2012 over a distance of and was the sixth race of the 2012 UCI Women's Road World Cup season.\n\nResults from worldcupvargarda.se.\n\n"}
{"id": "30845212", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30845212", "title": "AS Rivière du Rempart", "text": "AS Rivière du Rempart\n\nAS Rivière du Rempart is a Mauritian football club based in Mapou, Rivière du Rempart District. They play in the Mauritian Premier League, the top division in Mauritian football.\n\nThey have never won the league or any domestic cups.\n\nTheir home stadium is Stade Anjalay (cap. 15,000) in Belle Vue Maurel, Pamplemousses District. They share this stadium with Pamplemousses SC.\n\n\"As of February 28, 2011\"\n\n"}
{"id": "7068659", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7068659", "title": "Admiral Fetterman Field", "text": "Admiral Fetterman Field\n\nAdmiral Fetterman Field (located in the Community Maritime Park) is a multi-use park in Pensacola, Florida that includes a stadium, commercial buildings, a waterfront public park and amphitheater. The mixed use stadium holds 5,038 people and can be used for a number of events year-round, including baseball, soccer, football, festivals, graduations, and similar events. The multi-use stadium was originally designed to be the home field of the Pensacola Pelicans; it hosts the Minnesota Twins Double-A affiliate, the Pensacola Blue Wahoos. The stadium is situated facing the Pensacola Bay.\n\nOn April 28, 2009, the Pensacola City Council gave final approval for the ballpark to be built.\n\nThe entire project cost $54 million and was completed in time for the Blue Wahoos' inaugural home opener on April 5, 2012.\nBuilding the ballpark cost $23,845,045.23.\n\nAdmiral Fetterman Field is a , 5,038 seat multi-use stadium. Construction includes precast concrete bowl seating, steel framed elevated slabs, post-tensioned slabs-on-grade, and an auger cast pile foundation with concrete grade beams and pile caps. This project was custom designed to meet the needs for the use by a minor league baseball team as well as for accommodating other sporting and festival type events. The structure and slab-on-grade was pile supported due to poor soil conditions and concern over scour from hurricanes.\n\nDuring steel fabrication and foundation construction, an AA baseball team was acquired. This acquisition required enhancements to the stadium. This was a challenge for the design team who worked diligently to adjust the structure while using newly constructed elements within the enhancements, while providing subcontractors information needed to keep construction moving forward without incurring additional mobilization fees.\n\nThe amphitheater has architecturally exposed steel trusses and frames supporting curved steel roof purlins with a heavy timber, tongue-and-groove roof deck. The steel trusses and frames are designed and shaped to resemble the fronds of a palm tree. The steel structure is supported on concrete piers that are supported on a large concrete pile cap that rests on auger-cast-in-place piles. The concrete piers also support the main stage floor. The stage floor is a flat plate, thick post-tensioned concrete slab.\n\nAs of the 2016 season the stadium hosts the UWF Argos football team.\n\n"}
{"id": "2311308", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2311308", "title": "Albuquerque Sports Stadium", "text": "Albuquerque Sports Stadium\n\nAlbuquerque Sports Stadium was a baseball stadium in Albuquerque, New Mexico, USA, which was built in 1969 as a modern replacement for the aging Tingley Field. The ballpark had a seating capacity of 10,510, though it occasionally accommodated much larger crowds.\n\nThe stadium was located at the northeast corner of University Boulevard and Avenida Cesar Chavez. It was torn down and Isotopes Park was built to replace it.\n\nAlbuquerque Sports Stadium was built in a bowl excavated out of a large hill, so the playing field was significantly below grade level. The dimensions of the park were 360 feet to left field, 350 feet to right field, and 410 feet to center, approximately the same size as Tingley Field. The stadium was a fairly basic facility with a central concessions area, offices, and ticketing behind a single-level grandstand. One of the park's most unusual features was a \"drive in\" area in right field where fans could watch the game from their cars.\n\nTingley Field had been the home of Albuquerque's professional baseball teams since the Depression, and it was starting to show its age by the 1960s. City officials hoped a large new stadium located near the other sports venues in southeast Albuquerque would have a major economic impact and help the city attract a Triple-A team in the near future. Support was widespread, and in a 1968 special election voters approved $1 million in bonds for the project. This included $100,000 for the renovation of Tingley Field, with the rest going towards the new stadium.\n\nAlbuquerque Sports Stadium was designed by Albuquerque architect Max Flatow and cost just $1.4 million. It opened on March 31, 1969, with an exhibition game between the San Francisco Giants and the Cleveland Indians played in front of an overflow crowd of 13,767. The first batter to step up to the plate in the new stadium was Willie Mays.\n\nThe ballpark's first tenants were the Albuquerque Dodgers of the Double-A Texas League. In 1972 the city succeeded in acquiring a Triple-A team, the Pacific Coast League Albuquerque Dukes. The Dukes remained at Albuquerque Sports Stadium for the next 28 years. The 1993 Triple-A All-Star Game was held at Albuquerque Sports Stadium, with the National League defeating the American League, 14–3. The attendance was 10,541, and the game was broadcast on radio. Albuquerque's Billy Ashley was selected as the PCL MVP.\n\nBy the late 1990s, however, the stadium had become the second oldest in the league and was in disrepair. Dukes owner Bob Lozinak sold the team franchise to Portland in 2000, and Albuquerque Sports Stadium was torn down shortly thereafter. Isotopes Park was built in its place in 2003. Although supposedly a renovation of the old stadium, Isotopes Park was built almost entirely from scratch, and little of the old ballpark remains apart from the playing field.\n\nMany Dodger greats, including much of the championship teams of the Dodgers from the 1970s skippered by Tommy Lasorda played at the Albuquerque Sports Stadium, including Orel Hershiser, Pedro Martínez, Steve Garvey, Mike Piazza, and Paul Lo Duca.\n"}
{"id": "23781846", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23781846", "title": "Arena X-Glide", "text": "Arena X-Glide\n\nArena X-Glide is a swimsuit from the Arena brand, made of pure polyurethane that causes a swimmer to slide through water faster when swimming. One notable example of the efficacy of this suit design is that of Paul Biedermann of Germany who wore the suit in the 2009 World Championships, breaking two world records. The design of the suit covers basically the whole torso and the legs with the impermeable polyurethane, thereby exposing less skin to the water and improving the swimmer's buoyancy and streamlined shape. This significantly reduces the drag a swimmer experiences as he or she moves through the water.\n\nAccording to Rick Sharp, an exercise physiologist at Iowa State University, \"The Speedo team came up with a design that put panels of polyurethane over parts of the body that produce the highest drag. Another part is the suit design: You don't want a suit that traps water as it flows around the swimmer. Yet another innovation is to use material that squeezes and slims down swimmers \"so the skin doesn't wobble around as they go through the water.\" Pieces of fabric were put through wind-tunnel tests to check for drag. Programmers used computational fluid dynamics to model the suits' aerodynamic qualities, as if they were trying to figure out how a brand-new jet will fly. Then, swimmers put the designs to real-world tests in tanks and pools.\n\nFollowing the incredible results the new Speedo LZR Racer swimsuit produced in the Beijing Olympics (Twenty-three world records were broken by the swimmers who wore LZR Racer suits, compared with only two that were broken by the swimmers who didn't. Speedo said 89 percent of all the medals in swimming, including 94 percent of the gold medals were won by LZR Racer swimmers), Italian swimsuit makers Arena and Jaked responded by both developing suits that one-upped the Speedo by using pure polyurethane.\n\nThere was a great deal of controversy in the swimming world surrounding polyurethane swimsuits, and strict rules banning these types of swimsuits in professional swimming were put into place. After Biedermann's wins in the 2009 World Championships, Michael Phelps' trainer (until then, Phelps had held the world record for the 200m freestyle since 2007) suggested that Phelps boycott international swimming competitions until the suit is banned. Biedermann's breaking of both Ian Thorpe's 400m world record as well as Phelps's 200m record have been largely attributed to the superiority in the design of his swimsuit. Michael Phelps speculated that the new rules banning polyurethane will level the playing field once more, stating:\nPhelps was the target of similar controversy before the Beijing Olympics for wearing a then-revolutionary swim-suit technology (the Speedo LZR Racer), created by his current sponsor, Speedo, that was also reported to make the swimmer faster. The LZR Racer went on to be offered to all swimmers competing in the Beijing Olympics.\n\nFollowing the December 2008 European Short Course Championships in Croatia, where 17 world records fell, it was felt there was a need to modify the rules surrounding swimsuits. The combined effects of the LZR both compressing the body and trapping air for buoyancy led to many competitors who used the LZR wearing two or more suits for an increased effect. This led to some claiming that the LZR was in effect \"technological doping.\"\n\nAt their meeting in Dubai in March 2009, FINA stipulated that swimsuits should not cover the neck, must not extend past the shoulders and ankles, and also limit the suits' thickness and buoyancy. In a statement FINA stated that:\n\nThe LZR Racer and all other Speedo Fast Skin Competition Suits were approved. However other suits like the BlueSeventy Nero Comp were banned first and afterwards released, too.\n\nIn an abrupt reversal of opinion, the FINA Congress voted almost unanimously to revert its previous policy and ban all body-length swimsuits. The decision was taken in Rome on July 24, 2009, during the 2009 World Aquatics Championships. The new policy states that men's swimsuits may maximally cover the area from the waist to the knee, and women's counterparts from the shoulder to the knee. They also ruled that the fabric used must be a textile (i.e. woven rather than a foil). The new regulations took effect in January 2010.\n\nUSA Swimming, the United States governing body, made the date where all these suits will be illegal October 1, 2009.\n\nFINA has already released an outline of the legal suits to wear. Among the suits on this list there is the Nike Swift, the Speedo FS PRO, and the Speedo LZR.\n\n"}
{"id": "3485666", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3485666", "title": "Bob Carpenter Center", "text": "Bob Carpenter Center\n\nBob Carpenter Center is a 5,100-seat multi-purpose arena, in Newark, Delaware, named in honor of benefactor and trustee, R. R. M. Carpenter, Jr. (1915–1990). Students at the University of Delaware have nicknamed it \"The Bob.\"\n\nThe arena opened in 1992 and was designed by HOK Sport (now known as Populous), who have been involved in more than 150 sports and recreation projects. The construction of the building cost $20.5 million. In late 2010, the University constructed an addition, which includes two full-size basketball courts, new offices and locker rooms for the basketball and volleyball programs, and a new entrance plaza.\n\nThe arena section of the building is named in honor of Frank E. Acierno, a local businessman and developer, who donated $1 million to the Bob Carpenter Center, the largest gift from a single donor.\n\nIt is home to the University of Delaware Blue Hens basketball teams (men and women), and from 2013 to 2018, the Delaware 87ers (now the Delaware Blue Coats) of the NBA G League. It also hosted a preseason game for the Philadelphia 76ers vs. the Boston Celtics. Since 2014, it has hosted one annual WNBA preseason game, except in 2017. Each of the WNBA games has featured UD product Elena Delle Donne, who was with the Chicago Sky from 2013 to 2016 and has been with the Washington Mystics since 2017.\n\nIt hosted a campaign rally for Vice President Al Gore in 1996 and all or part of the 1997-2001 America East Conference men's basketball tournaments.\n\nIt also hosts other events, such as the WWE, music and comedy concerts, and craft fairs.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48764272", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48764272", "title": "Carded boxer", "text": "Carded boxer\n\nA carded boxer is a boxing competitor who has been certified or carded to train and compete in the sport of boxing. The carding process requires registration with a boxing organization and a medical review.\n"}
{"id": "38233584", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38233584", "title": "Chigorin Chess", "text": "Chigorin Chess\n\nChigorin Chess is a chess variant invented by Ralph Betza in 2002. It was named after Mikhail Ivanovich Chigorin. Betza commented that\n\nThe game follows all the rules and conventions of standard chess, with two differences:\n\n\nChigorin Chess was meant to emphasize the contrast between the relative values of knights and bishops in standard chess. Betza commented that it was a good introductory variant for chessplayers, like his earlier Almost Chess.\n\nBetza considered that White has a large advantage due to his fast development, being able to castle as early as the third move, whereas Black cannot castle before the fifth move, and to castle that early he must move the f- or h-pawn to develop the g8-bishop and weaken his .\n"}
{"id": "11031086", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11031086", "title": "Dean Park Cricket Ground", "text": "Dean Park Cricket Ground\n\nDean Park is a cricket ground in Bournemouth, England, currently used by Dorset County Cricket Club, Bournemouth University Cricket Club, as well as by Parley Cricket Club and Suttoners Cricket Club. It was formerly used by Hampshire County Cricket Club.\n\nDean Park has hosted 343 first-class matches since 1897, but none since 1992. There have also been 77 List A games at the ground, the most recent being in 2010. One women's One-day International, between Young England and Australia, was staged at Dean Park as part of the inaugural Women's Cricket World Cup in 1973. \n\non Tuesday 26 November 1878 Bournemouth F.C. participated in one of the first floodlit matches, when they played under experimental electric lights at Dean Park for \"a grand exhibition of the new electric light\". In 1888 the club moved to Dean Park and changed their name to Bournemouth Dean Park.\n\nFollowing changes to county borders that transferred Bournemouth from Hampshire to Dorset, reflecting this the ground is now used by Dorset County Cricket Club as its main venue and club headquarters.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50488676", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50488676", "title": "Drinking from shoes", "text": "Drinking from shoes\n\nDrinking from a shoe has historically been performed as both a bringer of good fortune and as a hazing punishment. Drinking champagne from a lady's slipper became a symbol of decadence in the early 20th century.\n\nDrinking beer out of one's own shoe is a ritual sometimes undertaken at parties and events in Australia, where it is referred to as a \"shoey\". Australian MotoGP rider Jack Miller celebrated his first premier class victory by drinking champagne out of his shoe, at the Dutch circuit of Assen, on 26 June 2016. Since then, Formula One driver Daniel Ricciardo, another Australian, has also performed shoeys on the podium. Australian Mixed Martial Artist Tai Tuivasa celebrates his UFC wins with a shoey.\n\nIn the 20th century, the act of drinking champagne from a lady's slipper became a shorthand for decadence and sophistication. The practice is thought to have originated in 1902 at the Everleigh Club, a high-class brothel in Chicago. When a dancer's\nslipper fell to the floor, a member of Prince Henry of Prussia's\nentourage picked it up and used it to drink champagne.\n\nDrinking from another soldier's boot was a traditional hazing ritual in the German army, and soldiers would drink from the general's boot after a victory. During World War I, German soldiers were said to pass around a leather boot filled with beer, to bring good luck before a battle. The drinkers would flick the boot before and after taking a drink from it.\nThe idea that drinking from a shoe or boot can bring good fortune dates back to the Middle Ages.\n\nThe German \"Bierstiefel\" is a boot-shaped beer glass said to have been created by a Prussian general in an unnamed war who promised his troops that if they were victorious in an upcoming battle, he would drink beer from his own boot. After they won the battle the general had second thoughts, and instead ordered a glass imitation to be made.\n\nIn a 1972 episode of the US television series \"M*A*S*H\" titled \"Yankee Doodle Doctor\", a black and white film is made by the doctors in which they are seen at party drinking from shoes.\n\nThe \"shoey\" is a ritual popular in Australia where the drinker either removes their own shoe, or nominates a friend's shoe to be used as the vessel. The shoe is tilted and the entire contents of a can of beer are poured into the shoe's opening. Once the beverage has settled, the beer is drunk by tipping the shoe up to the mouth and chugging it. The drink most commonly used for a shoey is beer, however other alcoholic beverages are also used. Australian Formula One racer Daniel Ricciardo has said \"If the sparkling wine is cold, then it tastes good. If it's warm then you might get the sweat through it but the cold taste kills the bad stuff... so it's delicious.\"\n\nThe shoey gained widespread popularity in Australia due to a surfing and fishing brand, The Mad Hueys. Dean and Shaun Harrington, known as the face of this brand, have been quoted saying they have been drinking 'Shoeys' from as early as 2002. As The Mad Hueys increased in popularity, more and more public figures associated with the brand were caught in the act. \n\nIn 2015 after Supercars driver David Reynolds won the first non-endurance race of his career and proceeded to drink champagne from his shoe while celebrating on the podium. Also in 2015, DJ, Dillon Francis did a Shoey on stage at Field day. More international media attention was received in 2016 after MotoGP rider Jack Miller celebrated his first win and drank champagne from his racing boot during the podium presentation. Following a podium at the 2016 San Marino MotoGP round, Italian racer Valentino Rossi was the first non-Australian competitor to embrace and perform a shoey.\n\nDaniel Ricciardo introduced the trend to Formula One in 2016 when he celebrated a podium finish by performing a champagne shoey at the and again on the podium of the , this time sharing it with Mark Webber. On the podium of the , winner Ricciardo shared his shoey with his second-placed teammate Max Verstappen and third-placed Nico Rosberg, as well as his team boss Christian Horner. Scottish actor Gerard Butler drank Red Bull from a shoe with Ricciardo at the US Grand Prix podium as well as Sir Patrick Stewart on the podium of the 2017 Canadian Grand Prix. Ricciardo shared his shoey with Canadian rookie driver Lance Stroll on the podium of the 2017 Azerbaijan Grand Prix, which was Stroll's first podium of his F1 career and Ricciardo's fifth win. Ricciardo credits the creation of the shoey to \"a few Aussies called the Mad Hueys\", saying that they \"basically travel the world fishing and surfing and they like to drink a lot of beer – so that's where the shoey began\".\n\nOn the podium of the 2017 Austrian Grand Prix, interviewer Martin Brundle drank from third-placed Ricciardo's shoe, but winner Valtteri Bottas and runner-up Sebastian Vettel declined the offer.\n\nThe shoey was popular during the Cronulla-Sutherland Sharks 2016 season when it became a tradition for fans to perform shoeys at games. This coincided with the club winning their first NRL premiership at the end of the season, with numerous players such as James Maloney doing shoeys at celebrations.\n\nCommonly, Hash House Harriers who wear new shoes to an event can be required to drink from that shoe.\n"}
{"id": "3115734", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3115734", "title": "Ethiopia at the 1964 Summer Olympics", "text": "Ethiopia at the 1964 Summer Olympics\n\nEthiopia competed at the 1964 Summer Olympics in Tokyo, Japan. Twelve competitors, all men, took part in eleven events in three sports. Abebe Bikila repeated as Olympic champion in the men's marathon.\n\nFour cyclists represented Ethiopia in 1964.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18694330", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18694330", "title": "Fedics United F.C.", "text": "Fedics United F.C.\n\nFedics United F.C. is a football (soccer) team in Keetmanshoop, ǁKaras Region, Namibia. They play in the Namibia Premier League at J. Stephanus Stadium.\n"}
{"id": "56296071", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56296071", "title": "Freestyle skiing at the 2018 Winter Olympics – Women's slopestyle", "text": "Freestyle skiing at the 2018 Winter Olympics – Women's slopestyle\n\nThe Women's slopestyle event in freestyle skiing at the 2018 Winter Olympics took place on 17 February 2018 at the Bogwang Phoenix Park, Pyeongchang, South Korea.\n\nThe top 30 athletes in the Olympic quota allocation list qualified, with a maximum of four athletes per National Olympic Committee (NOC) allowed. All athletes qualifying must also have placed in the top 30 of a FIS World Cup event or the FIS Freestyle Ski and Snowboarding World Championships 2017 during the qualification period (July 1, 2016 to January 21, 2018) and also have a minimum of 50 FIS points to compete. If the host country, South Korea, did not qualify, their chosen athlete would displace the last qualified athlete, granted all qualification criterion was met.\n\nThe top 12 athletes in the qualifiers moved on to the medal round.\n\nThe final was held at 13:56.\n"}
{"id": "45484251", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45484251", "title": "HK Liepāja", "text": "HK Liepāja\n\nHK Liepāja is a Latvian ice hockey club, founded in 2014. The club is based at the Liepājas Olimpiskā Centra ledus halle in Liepāja. HK Liepāja plays in the Latvian Hockey League.\n\n\"Note: GP = Games played; W = Wins; OTW = Overtime wins; OTL = Overtime losses; L = Losses; GF = Goals for; GA = Goals against; Pts = Points\"\n\n"}
{"id": "50553771", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50553771", "title": "Hardyman Lamit", "text": "Hardyman Lamit\n\nMuhammad Hardyman bin Abdul Lamit is a Bruneian footballer who plays for Kota Ranger FC of the Brunei Super League as a midfielder. He has represented Brunei in football and also in futsal.\n\nHardyman previously played for QAF FC ever since their entry into the B-League back in 2003. He won the Bruneian championship three times in a row with QAF, along with two League Cups and two Super Cups. When the club declined to continue playing in the Brunei Super League in 2015, he transferred to Jerudong FC along with many of his QAF teammates, finishing sixth in the table that year. \n\nHardyman stayed with Jerudong FC in 2016 after the club suffered a mass exodus of players. He eventually was appointed club captain. He scored against Tabuan U21 on 9 April in a 2–2 draw to help his team gain their first point of the season.\n\nHardyman made appearances for the Brunei under-21s in the first two Hassanal Bolkiah Trophy tournaments in 2002 and 2005.\n\nHardyman made his international debut for Brunei at the 2004 AFC Asian Cup qualification match against Myanmar on 23 March 2003. He was a second-half substitute in place of Fadlin Galawat as the Wasps lost the game 5–0. He then played for Brunei while the national team was represented by his then club QAF FC in 2006 and 2009. \n\nHardyman is also a member of the Brunei national futsal team and has represented Brunei since 2003, his first appearances were at the 2003 AFF Futsal Championship in Kuantan, Malaysia.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55830835", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55830835", "title": "History of English cricket from 1919 to 1939", "text": "History of English cricket from 1919 to 1939\n\nEnglish cricket had been completely disrupted by the First World War and there were no first-class matches after August 1914 until May 1919. A similar situation arose in the Second World War with a shutdown of first-class cricket from September 1939 until the summer of 1945 when eleven matches were specially arranged; cricket returned to normal in 1946 with a full domestic programme and a Test series against India. \n\nIn the 21 seasons between the wars, England took part in 120 Test matches as part of fifteen home and thirteen away series. Several other first-class tours were organised by Marylebone Cricket Club (MCC) and private individuals like Sir Julien Cahn and Lionel Tennyson. Having won The Ashes in 1926 and successfully defended them in 1928–29, England thereafter had to face the formidable challenge of Don Bradman, whose heavy scoring was the key difference between England and Australia through the 1930s. Under the captaincy of Douglas Jardine in 1932–33, England controversially deployed so-called \"leg theory\", better known as \"bodyline\", in order to regain the Ashes but nearly caused an international incident by doing so.\n\nDomestically, the only major tournament was the County Championship which in this period was mostly dominated by Yorkshire and Lancashire. Between them, they won seventeen of the 21 titles at stake and the \"Roses Match\" became the most significant domestic fixture of the English season. Nottinghamshire and Derbyshire won one title each and so Middlesex, with two, were the only southern champions of the inter-war period. Other domestic fixtures of note were the Champion County match (annual to 1935), Gentlemen v Players (annual), North v South (ten matches in nine seasons) and the University Match (annual).\n\nLeading English players of the inter-war years included Wilfred Rhodes, Jack Hobbs, Frank Woolley, Herbert Strudwick, Patsy Hendren, Tich Freeman, Maurice Tate, Herbert Sutcliffe, George Duckworth, Harold Larwood, Wally Hammond, Maurice Leyland, Les Ames, Hedley Verity, Len Hutton and Denis Compton.\n\nAfter the end of World War I in November 1918, the English cricket authorities were determined to arrange a full County Championship programme for the 1919 season and, despite calls for radical innovation, to change things \"as little as possible\". The only change of note that they did introduce was the two-day match, instead of three-day, and this was soon acknowledged to have been a colossal mistake. The three-day match was restored in 1920.\n\nThe county clubs faced many problems in dealing with post-war recovery. Their overall handling of the 1919 County Championship was not viewed in a favourable light by \"Wisden\" and many others, especially the rash decision to introduce a two-day match format. This was short-lived and three-day matches were reinstated ahead of the 1920 season. \n\nOne of the main concerns of the counties in 1919 was who would be able to play for their teams as the war had taken a heavy toll of first-class cricketers. Much depended on the availability of pre-war players who could resume their careers and on finding new talent.\n\nIn the aftermath of the First World War, more especially of the Russian Revolution, there were concerns at MCC and in the cricketing establishment generally about how times were changing. The three most prominent establishment figures were Lord Harris, Lord Hawke and Pelham Warner who were determined that cricket in the 1920s should continue as before the war under the leadership of amateurs like themselves. As Derek Birley put it, they were intent on \"preserving the natural order of things\". When the Lancashire professional Cec Parkin had the \"temerity\" to criticise the England captain Arthur Gilligan, Warner denounced him as \"the first cricketing Bolshevik\". It backfired on Warner. Even among his own amateur brethren there were many who asserted that Gilligan was a waste of space whose selection over Surrey captain Percy Fender had been done because of \"petty jealousies between MCC and Surrey\".\n\nAccusations flew back and forth. In the 1924–25 annual edition of \"The Cricketer\" (Warner's own magazine), Hawke, supported by Harris, stated that there was no such thing as class prejudice in cricket. Conversely, in his view, the problem was a shortage of amateurs, especially in the northern counties, and this had \"led to a lack of enterprise\" (Hawke give no rationale for that supposed outcome). During the same winter, while speaking at Yorkshire's annual dinner, Hawke responded to a published suggestion by Parkin that Jack Hobbs should captain England. Hawke made his oft-misquoted plea: \"Pray God that no professional may ever captain England!\" Warner attempted to explain this away by saying that Hawke meant it would be \"a bad day when \"no amateur\" was fit to play for England\" and, that, in any case, an amateur was \"better qualified\" to shoulder the captain's \"off-field responsibilities\". What Warner failed to understand was that it was not so much what Hawke said that mattered but what Hawke was seen to represent, which was as Hawke's biographer James Coldham said: \"the dead hand of the past\". Warner again attacked Parkin and Lancashire, whose committee was pro-establishment, sacked Parkin in 1926.\n\nMarylebone Cricket Club (MCC) remained the controlling body in English cricket throughout the inter-war period and was responsible for the selection and management of the England cricket team. Australia were England's main rivals and The Ashes were contested in ten series between 1921 and 1938, five in England and five in Australia, most famously in the \"Bodyline\" series of 1932–33. England played three home series against South Africa and four in South Africa including their last overseas tour before the Second World War. In 1919, the International Cricket Conference had only its three original full members (Australia, England and South Africa). The membership and, hence, the number of countries able to play Test cricket doubled on 31 May 1926 with the promotions of India, New Zealand and the West Indies to full member status. England played each of these teams for the first time in the next few seasons. To 1939, there were three England v India series, two in England and one in India; four England v New Zealand series, two in each country; and five England v West Indies series, three of them in England.\n\nEngland were outclassed by Australia in the first two series after the war but, by the middle of the 1920s, they had a team good enough to win and retain the Ashes. Don Bradman dominated the 1930 series and Douglas Jardine used the leg theory stratagem in 1932–33 to try and curb Bradman's massive run-scoring. It worked and England recovered the Ashes, but at enormous cost of cricketing prestige. With leg theory in disgrace, normal cricket resumed in 1934. Australia won back the Ashes and kept them until 1953, though England made a real fight of it in each of the 1934, 1936–37 and 1938 series. \n\nEngland and South Africa were quite well matched throughout this period and both teams enjoyed series wins at home and away. The last match between them before the war was the famous \"Timeless Test\" at Kingsmead in March 1939. Despite the intention to play to a finish, it was agreed after nine days on the field to call it a draw, so that the England team could catch their boat home.\n\nEngland played India for the first time in 1932 when a single Test was staged. England won that match and then won 2–0 in each of two three-match series (home and away) over the next four years. \n\nEngland's first Test series against New Zealand was in 1929–30. There were three more before the war and, though England won all four series, the majority of matches were drawn and New Zealand did not win any.\n\nEngland's first Test against West Indies was in 1928. Five series were played before the war including the one in 1939 which had just finished when the international crisis arose. England were mostly successful against West Indies but not in 1934–35 when the home team recorded a 2–1 series victory.\n\nThe inter-war period in the County Championship was dominated by the northern clubs. Yorkshire had won the two-day version in 1919 but then there was brief southern success with back-to-back victories by Middlesex in 1920 and 1921. In 1922, Yorkshire won the first of four successive titles to 1925. It was during the 1920s that the \"Roses Match\" was the most significant domestic fixture and Lancashire won four of the next five championships, their run interrupted by Nottinghamshire in 1929. Starting in 1931, Yorkshire won seven out of nine competitions to 1939, the other two titles going to Lancashire in 1934 and to the fourth northern club Derbyshire in 1936.\n\nThere was only one addition to the County Championship between the wars, Glamorgan becoming the 17th county in 1921. Worcestershire did not compete in 1919 but rejoined for the 1920 season.\n\nIn 1919, Derbyshire welcomed back Billy Bestwick, Samuel Cadman, Arthur Morton, Joseph Bowden, Archibald Slater and James Horsley. Their best new player in 1919 was Guy Jackson. The team struggled that season and were placed tenth, winning three and losing nine of their fourteen matches.\n\nDerbyshire had a disastrous season in 1920, losing seventeen of their eighteen matches, and struggled for most of the 1920s with another winless season in 1924. Gradually, they assembled a strong team and, by 1927, they had a decent side which finished fifth and commanded respect. Harry Elliott, Jim Hutchinson and Harry Storer junior all made their debuts in 1920 and, over the next five years, the team welcomed Leslie Townsend, Stan Worthington and Garnet Lee. Denis Smith, who has one of the longest first-class careers on record, first appeared in 1927. Albert Alderman began in 1928 and then the team really took shape as Derbyshire discovered Tommy Mitchell, Alf Pope, Bill Copson, Charlie Elliott and George Pope. From 1928 to 1933, the team was always in mid-table.\n\nThe team finally realised its potential and finished third behind Lancashire in 1934 and second behind Yorkshire in 1935. The 1936 championship-winning team was captained by A. W. Richardson and its key players were the main bowlers Copson, Mitchell, Alf Pope and all-rounder Townsend. Wicket-keeper Harry Elliott, very effective in combination with Mitchell, accounted for 62 batsmen. Four batsmen scored over 1,000 championship runs: Townsend, Worthington, Smith and Alderman. Derbyshire finished third in 1937, when Dusty Rhodes made his debut, and a creditable fifth in 1938 but then dropped back to mid-table in 1939. The promising pace bowler Cliff Gladwin made his debut in 1939 and played four times that season. Gladwin went on to play for England in the 1940s and form a formidable partnership for Derbyshire with Les Jackson.\n\nEssex could win only two of their eighteen two-day matches in the 1919 championship, twelve others ending in draws. They were placed fourteenth in the final, percentage-based table. There was a much improved performance in 1920 when, with nine wins and nine defeats, the team moved into mid-table. Essex generally struggled through the 1920s and were never more than a mid-table team. They were close to the wooden spoon in 1928 when only the winless Worcestershire had a worse record. In 1930, Ken Farnes made his debut and Essex climbed to sixth place. Two losing seasons followed and then the team reached fourth in 1933 before slipping back into mid-table for the next three years. For the last three seasons before the Second World War, Essex were one of the country's better teams and finished sixth, sixth and fourth successively. \n\nReturning Essex players in 1919 included Percy Perrin, Johnny Douglas, Frank Gillingham, John Freeman, Jack Russell, George Louden and Joseph Dixon. Their best new player was Whiz Morris. Laurie Eastman made his debut in 1920. New players from 1921 to 1928 included Claude Ashton, Jack O'Connor, Joe Hipkin, Jim Cutmore, Stan Nichols, Arthur Daer, Leonard Crawley, Charles Bray, Dudley Pope and Denys Wilcox. In 1929, the tide began to turn as Essex became more competitive and, more importantly, were able to introduce four players with great potential in Tom Pearce, Roy Sheffield, Peter Smith and Tom Wade. In the early 1930s, new players included Reginald Taylor, Victor Evans, Hopper Read, Ray Smith, John Stephenson and Sonny Avery.\n\nGlamorgan joined the County Championship in 1921 and remain the only non-English member. First-class cricket gave Glamorgan a tough baptism and they finished bottom in their first championship season, winning only two of their eighteen matches. They were in the penultimate position in both 1922 and 1923. In their first three seasons, they won five matches but doubled that total in 1924 and moved up the table to thirteenth. They were bottom again in 1925 and were usually one of the bottom three teams from then to 1939. Their best seasons were 1926 and 1937 when they were eighth and seventh respectively. \n\nThe 1921 team included Trevor Arnott, William Bates, Johnnie Clay, Harry Creber, Stamford Hacker, Jack Nash and Norman Riches. Among the players they introduced through these first nineteen seasons were Jack Mercer, Dai Davies, Cyril Walters, Emrys Davies, Maurice Turnbull, Arnold Dyson, Cyril Smart, George Lavis, Haydn Davies, Phil Clift, Willie Jones, Austin Matthews, Wilf Wooller and Allan Watkins.\n\nGloucestershire were generally competitive through the period and there was one season in particular, 1930, when they were very close to winning the championship under the captaincy of the charismatic Bev Lyon. They won fifteen of their 28 matches, five more than champions Lancashire, but finished second because they gained first innings lead points twice against Lancashire's eight, which left them with a three-point deficit in the final table. They were runners-up again in 1931, behind Yorkshire, but this time the gap was considerable. \n\nGloucestershire's greatest player of the inter-war years was the England batsman Wally Hammond and they had three outstanding bowlers in Charlie Parker, Tom Goddard and Reg Sinfield. Other accomplished players were batsmen Charlie Barnett and Alf Dipper; and wicket-keeper Harry Smith.\n\nHampshire were never in title contention between the wars. They were a perennial mid-table team through the 1920s but had a weaker side in the 1930s when they always finished in the bottom half. \n\nTheir outstanding player was the prolific run-scorer Phil Mead and other good batsmen were George Brown and Johnny Arnold. The best bowlers were Alec Kennedy, Jack Newman and Lofty Herman. Behind the stumps, Hampshire were well served by Walter Livsey, Neil McCorkell and, when required, by Brown too.\n\nIn the decade before the First World War, Kent had one of the best teams in the country. They were narrowly beaten on percentage by Yorkshire for the 1919 Championship but, given that they played only 14 games and Yorkshire played 26, Roy Webber declared Yorkshire's title to be \"just\". That was the closest Kent got to winning an inter-war title but they were always a top half team until 1935 when they slipped to tenth. Their lowest position was twelfth in 1937 but they were back up to fifth in 1939. Kent were one of the most consistent teams of the period but never quite good enough to challenge the northern counties.\n\nTheir outstanding players between the wars were all-rounder Frank Woolley, wicket-keeper/batsman Les Ames and leg break bowler Tich Freeman.\n\nLancashire enjoyed the most successful period of their history in the late 1920s. They won the championship five times in nine seasons between 1926 and 1934. They forged a famous rivalry with neighbours Yorkshire which elevated the \"Roses Match\" to the status of England's greatest domestic fixture. In the whole inter-war period, there were only two seasons (1936 and 1937) in which Lancashire finished outside the top six.\n\nAlthough the county had numerous quality players, the essential factors in their success were professionalism and teamwork. Among their best players were England wicket-keeper George Duckworth; batsmen Ernest Tyldesley, Charlie Hallows, Harry Makepeace and Eddie Paynter; and bowlers Ted McDonald, Cec Parkin and Dick Tyldesley.\n\nLeicestershire struggled financially through the inter-war years and their team, never in contention, was invariably in the lower half of the table. They took the wooden spoon in 1933 and 1939. One consequence of their perennially straitened circumstances – both in terms of money and the ability to attract new players – was that they became in 1935 the first county club in the 20th century to appoint a professional as their captain: Ewart Astill led them to sixth place in the County Championship with 11 victories and \"Wisden\" hailed it as \"the most successful season in the history of the club\". But the team reverted to type over the following seasons under the captaincy of the New Zealand \"amateur\" Stewie Dempster who was contracted to Sir Julien Cahn.\n\nAmong their better players were the wicket-keepers Tom Sidwell and Percy Corrall; batsmen Norman Armstrong, Les Berry and Eddie Dawson; and bowlers Ewart Astill, George Geary and Haydon Smith.\n\nAfter a disappointing 1919 campaign, Middlesex improved dramatically to win back-to-back titles in 1920 and 1921. The team had its ups and downs for the next decade or so but became a strong unit again in 1935 when they finished third. They finished the thirties with four successive runners-up seasons from 1936 to 1939.\n\nMiddlesex's captain in the twenties was Frank Mann who also led England on their 1922–23 tour of South Africa. The most outstanding players in the two title-winning seasons were England batsman Patsy Hendren and all-rounder J. W. Hearne. Others in that team were wicket-keeper Joe Murrell; fast bowler Jack Durston; and all-rounders Nigel Haig, Harry Lee and Greville Stevens. Walter Robins was the team captain in the thirties and both Jim Smith and Jim Sims were England bowlers at the time. In the last few seasons before the Second World War, Middlesex could call upon Denis Compton, Bill Edrich and Jack Robertson.\n\nNot a period that Northants want to remember as they were always in the bottom six and took the wooden spoon several times. Fred Bakewell, Vallance Jupp, Benjamin Bellamy and Nobby Clark were the better players in county cricket's least successful team.\n\nNottinghamshire (Notts) had the formidable pace attack of Harold Larwood and Bill Voce for several seasons. Until they fell away somewhat in the late thirties, Notts were one of the most competitive teams and usually in contention. They won the title in 1929 and were runners-up in three other seasons. Noted batsmen were George Gunn, \"Dodge\" Whysall, Arthur Carr, Joe Hardstaff Jr, Charles Harris, Walter Keeton, Wilfred Payton and Willis Walker. Besides Larwood and Voce, Notts had good bowlers in Fred Barratt, Tom Richmond and Sam Staples. Ben Lilley succeeded Thomas Oates as wicket-keeper in 1924 and held the post until he retired in 1937 and was succeeded by Arthur Wheat.\n\nSomerset were never competitive and were always somewhere between mid-table and bottom six. Noted batsmen were Harold Gimblett, Frank Lee and Jack MacBryan. Their best bowlers were Jack White, who played in fifteen Tests for England, Bill Andrews and Arthur Wellard. Wally Luckes was the team's wicket-keeper through most of the inter-war years.\n\nSurrey had a strong team in the 1920s but then fell away, after Jack Hobbs retired, to be a mid-table one through most of the 1930s. Besides Hobbs (known as \"The Master\"), noted batsmen were Andy Ducat, Andy Sandham, Tom Barling, Errol Holmes, Laurie Fishlock, Bob Gregory, Tom Shepherd and Stan Squires. Surrey's best bowlers were Bill Hitch, Alf Gover and Percy Fender. They could also call upon Maurice Allom, Alan Peach, Tom Rushby and Eddie Watts. Behind the stumps, Surrey were well served by Herbert Strudwick and Ted Brooks.\n\nHaving been a mid-table team through most of the 1920s, Sussex showed a marked improvement in 1928 to finish a good sixth and then a strong fifth in 1929. They slipped a little in 1930 but then came good and were fourth, second, second and second from 1931 to 1934. They were very close to their first official title in both the latter two seasons when one more win might have swung the balance. Sussex fell away in 1935 and were in mid-table from then to 1939. Noted batsmen were Ted Bowley, Tom Cook, Duleepsinhji, and the two pairs of brothers James and John Langridge, Harry and Jim Parks Sr. Sussex had the future South African Test captain Alan Melville in their team during the mid-1930s. Sussex had one of the all-time great bowlers in Maurice Tate. Vallance Jupp played for them in the early 1920s and other good or useful bowlers were Bowley, Jim Cornford, George Cox Jr, James Langridge, Jim Parks and Albert Wensley. Sussex keeper George Street was killed in a road accident at the beginning of the 1924 season and Tich Cornford succeeded him. \n\nWarwickshire were bottom of the table in 1919 and, apart from a few seasons after 1930 when they reached the top ten (including a creditable fourth in 1934), were always in the bottom half. Warwickshire's best player was the England batsman Bob Wyatt. Other noted batsmen were Leonard Bates, Tom Dollery, Norman Kilner and Jack Parsons. Harry Howell was their best bowler in the 1920s. In the 1930s, Warwickshire had Joseph Mayer, George Paine and the young Eric Hollies. The wicket-keeper in the 1920s was Tiger Smith, who had made his debut in 1904; he was followed by Jack Smart and John Buckingham.\n\nWorcestershire chose not to compete in the chaotic 1919 season. Like Northants, they were perennial strugglers and picked up five wooden spoons. There was an improvement in 1939 when they won more than they lost for once and finished seventh. Their best batsmen were Harold Gibbons, Maurice Nichol and Cyril Walters. The Nawab of Pataudi was on their books in the 1930s but he only played one full season for them, 1933, when he scored 1,749 runs. Fred Root was the mainstay of the Worcestershire bowling through the 1920s when they also had the all-rounder Frederick Pearson. In the 1930s, Worcestershire's best bowlers were George Brook, Dick Howorth, Peter Jackson, Reg Perks and Sidney Martin. Syd Buller, later well known as a Test umpire, kept wicket for Worcestershire in the 1930s.\n\nDespite the presence in their team of some of cricket's greatest names, Yorkshire's professionalism and teamwork were the key ingredients in their remarkable run of success through the whole inter-war period. They won the title twelve times and their lowest placing was fifth. Captaincy was a factor and the issue of a professional captain arose in 1927. Before then, it was widely believed that, despite there being a nominal amateur captain, the arch-professional Wilfred Rhodes was the \"de facto\" captain aided by his lieutenant, the even archer-professional Emmott Robinson. The matter was never in doubt from 1933 when Brian Sellers was appointed; Yorkshire won six titles under his tenure and only Lord Hawke has been more successful.\n\nYorkshire were strong in all departments. The mainstay of the team was their world-class opening batsman Herbert Sutcliffe, whose career spanned the whole inter-war period. He had two significant opening partners in Percy Holmes and the young Len Hutton. Maurice Leyland was another regular England batsman and Yorkshire could also rely on Wilf Barber, Arthur Mitchell and Edgar Oldroyd. Opposing batsmen always knew that they would face a formidable attack, not least the two all-time greats Wilfred Rhodes through the 1920s and his successor Hedley Verity in the thirties. Yorkshire also called upon England bowlers George Macaulay, Roy Kilner, Abe Waddington, Bill Bowes and Frank Smailes. The redoubtable Emmott Robinson was a good bowler too, as was his namesake Ellis Robinson (no relation) in the late 1930s. Yorkshire's main wicket-keepers were Arthur Dolphin, who had made his debut in 1905, and Arthur Wood; they both played for England.\n\nTeams in the 1920s and 1930s played more first-class matches than in most other decades and so there was opportunity for top-class players to amass large totals of runs, wickets and dismissals. Any half-decent county player who was active throughout a season would reasonably be expected to score 1,000 runs in the season (if a recognised batsman), take 100 wickets (if a regular bowler) or dismiss 50 batsmen (if a wicket-keeper). \n\nScoring 3,000 runs in a season was considered a remarkable achievement and it was done fifteen times with another 42 instances of players scoring 2,500 runs. The highest season aggregate was 3,352 by Frank Woolley in 1928. Herbert Sutcliffe and Wally Hammond scored 3,000 three times; Patsy Hendren and Phil Mead twice; and it was done once each by Woolley, Les Ames, Jack Hobbs, Ernest Tyldesley and Jim Parks senior. Twenty triple-centuries were scored, the highest being 364 by Len Hutton in the final Test against Australia in 1938. The most was three by Hammond. Don Bradman, who played in three English seasons from 1930 to 1938, scored two, both in Test matches.\n\nIn a similar vein, taking 250 wickets in a season was also considered a remarkable achievement and this was done six times, all between 1928 and 1932 and all by the same player, Tich Freeman. His highest tally was 304 in 1928. Tom Goddard took 248 wickets in 1937 and the next highest was 228 by Maurice Tate in 1925. There were thirty instances in all of bowlers taking 200 wickets in a season. Freeman accounted for eight of these and Charlie Parker five. Goddard, Tate and Hedley Verity did it three times. The other eight instances were by Alf Gover (twice), Cec Parkin (twice), Alec Kennedy, Fred Root, Ted McDonald and George Macaulay. Ten wickets in an innings was achieved 22 times, including the world record analysis of ten for 10 by Verity in 1932. The next best returns were ten for 18 by George Geary in 1929 and ten for 36 by Verity, again, in 1931. Freeman took three tens, one in each season from 1929 to 1931. Verity was the only other bowler to do it twice. Two Australian tourists, Arthur Mailey in 1921 and Clarrie Grimmett in 1930, are among the other seventeen. \n\nThere were 45 instances of 75 dismissals in a season. 44 of these were by wicket-keepers, as would be expected, and one by a fielder. In 1928, Wally Hammond played in 35 matches and took 79 catches, all as a fielder. In the same season, Les Ames (122) and George Duckworth (107) both achieved the rare milestone of 100 dismissals in a season. Ames did even better in 1929, completing 128 dismissals, and in 1932 he completed 104. Ted Brooks achieved 75 dismissals six times. He was followed by Ames, Duckworth and Fred Price (five each); Harry Elliott and Arthur Wood (four each); Tich Cornford and Ben Lilley (three each); George Street (twice) and seven others at one apiece.\n\nThe three-Test series in 1939 between England and the West Indies was completed on Tuesday, 22 August. This was the day before the signing of the Nazi-Soviet Pact, in reaction to which Great Britain formalised the Anglo-Polish military alliance on Friday, 25 August. The West Indians were due to play Sussex at Hove, starting on Saturday, 26 August. Another five matches, including one against Kent at the St Lawrence Ground, were planned until the tour was due to end on Tuesday, 12 September. In view of the international crisis, the West Indians decided to cancel the six remaining matches and sail for home. England did not play Test cricket again until they hosted India at Lord's in June 1946.\n\nThe 1939 County Championship was effectively over when the Second World War began. Six matches had started on Wednesday, 30 August and were still being played on Friday, 1 September, the day that Germany attacked Poland. One of them was Sussex v Yorkshire at Hove. This finished on the Friday morning, Yorkshire winning by nine wickets. That confirmed Yorkshire as county champions for the third successive season. The last three matches in the championship programme, scheduled to commence on Saturday, 2 September, were cancelled. The County Championship resumed in May 1946 and was again won by Yorkshire who thus held the title for ten years.\n\nThe 1939 Scarborough Festival, featuring three matches at North Marine Road, was cancelled. Yorkshire were due to play MCC on Saturday, 2 September. MCC had selected a team under the captaincy of Bob Wyatt. It included Ken Farnes who, like Yorkshire's Hedley Verity, would be a victim of the war. Gentlemen v Players was planned to start on Wednesday, 6 September, and H. D. G. Leveson Gower's XI against the already departed West Indians on Saturday, 9 September. That was meant to be the season finale, ending on Tuesday, 12 September. By then, many cricketers were wearing military uniforms. Herbert Sutcliffe, whose entire first-class career (apart from one charity match in 1945) spanned the 21 seasons of the inter-war period, had missed the final championship match at Hove because, as a reservist in the British Army, he was the first Yorkshire player to be called up.\n\n• a) England should have played in 121 Tests. The 3rd Test of the 1938 series against Australia, due to commence on Thursday, 8 July at Old Trafford, was abandoned without a ball being bowled on account of persistent heavy rain.\n"}
{"id": "787715", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=787715", "title": "International rules football", "text": "International rules football\n\nInternational rules football (; also known as international rules in Australia and compromise rules in Ireland) is a team sport consisting of a hybrid of football codes, which was developed to facilitate international representative matches between Australian rules football players and Gaelic football players.\n\nThe first tour, known as the Australian Football World Tour, took place in 1967, with matches played in Ireland, the United Kingdom, and the United States. The following year, games were played between Australia and a touring County Meath Gaelic football team, Meath being the reigning All-Ireland senior football champions. Following intermittent international tests between Australia and Ireland, the International Rules Series between the senior Australian international rules football team and Ireland international rules football team has been played intermittently since 1984, and has generally been a closely matched contest. The sport has raised interest and exposure in developing markets for Gaelic and Australian football and has been considered a development tool by governing bodies of both codes, particularly by the AFL Commission.\n\nInternational rules football does not have any dedicated clubs or leagues. It is currently played by men's, women's, and junior teams only in tournaments or Test matches.\n\nThe rules are designed to provide a compromise or combine between those of the two codes, with Gaelic football players being advantaged by the use of a round ball and a rectangular field measured about 160 yards long by 98 yards wide (Australian rules uses an oval ball and field), while the Australian rules football players benefit from the opportunity to tackle by grabbing between the shoulders and thighs and pulling to the ground, something banned in Gaelic football. The game also introduces the concept of the mark, from Australian rules football, with a free kick awarded for a ball caught from a kick of over 15 metres, where the kick must be in the forward direction if originating from a teammate.\nA player must bounce, solo (kick into one's own hands) or touch the ball on the ground once every 10 metres or six steps. A maximum of two bounces per possession are allowed, while players can solo the ball as often as they wish on a possession. Unlike in Gaelic football, the ball may be lifted directly off the ground, without putting a foot underneath it first. Players however cannot scoop the ball off the ground to a team-mate, nor pick up the ball if they are on their knees or on the ground. If a foul is committed, a free kick will be awarded, though referees (called umpires in Australian Rules) can give the fouled player advantage to play on at their discretion.\nThe game uses two large posts usually sets 6.5 metres apart, and connected 2.5 metres above the ground by a crossbar with a goal net that could extend behind the goalposts and attached to the crossbar and lower goalposts, as in Gaelic football. A further 6.5 metres apart on either side of those and not connected by a crossbar are 2 small posts, known as behind posts, as in Australian rules football.\n\nPoints are scored as follows\n\n\nScores are written so as to clarify how many of each type of score were made as well as, like Australian football, giving the total points score for each team; for example, if a team scores one goal, four overs and 10 behinds, the score is written as 1-4-10 (28), meaning one goal (six points) plus 4 overs (4 × 3 = 12 points) plus 10 behinds (10 × 1 = 10 points), for a total score of 28 points.\n\nAn international rules match lasts for 72 minutes (divided into four quarters of 18 minutes each). Inter-county Gaelic football matches go on for 70 minutes, divided into two halves, and Australian rules matches consist of four 20 minute quarters of game time, although with the addition of stoppage time, most quarters actually last between 25 and 30 minutes.\n\nAs in Gaelic football, teams consist of fifteen players, including a goalkeeper, whereas eighteen are used in Australian rules (with no keeper).\n\nA number of rule changes were introduced before the 2006 International Rules Series:\n\n\n\n\nWhile ladies' Gaelic football has been growing almost exponentially since the 1970s, Women's Australian rules football has far fewer players, though numbers have grown strongly since the 1990s. In early 2006, representatives of the Ladies' Gaelic Football Association and Women's Australian Football Leagues met at a Ladies' Gaelic football festival in Singapore, and agreed to compete in the hybrid version of the two football codes to coincide with the senior men's series. The 2006 Women's Series has been the only series to take place.\n\nAmong the first schoolboys' international tests was that played in Melbourne in 1983, when a Victorian under-17 team played Ireland. An interesting twist in these compromise matches is that the ball used was the oval shaped Australian football rather than the round ball.\n\nAn official junior series at Under-17 level has been played in alternate nations since the early 2000s. Ireland completed a hat-trick of series wins from 2003–2005 before Australia won the junior series for 2006. The junior series was largely instituted by both leagues as a means to identify emerging talent. It has since been abandoned.\n\n\nThe Australian Amateur Football Council has sent an amateur Under-23 All-Australian team to Ireland in both 2005 and 2008. The Australian amateur team wore a different jersey to the AFL representative side, dark green and gold, with a kangaroo emblem. Recently, the Victorian Amateur Football Association (VAFA) has sent a squad of players sourced from the top six divisions of its competition to tour Ireland and play various clubs and representative teams. \nInternational rules also has a masters category with several competitions. There is also a Masters International Rules Series which follows the format of the senior men's series and involves many retired Australian Rules and Gaelic Football players.\n\nInternational rules is played in various locations throughout North America and the Caribbean, Europe, Asia, and Australia and New Zealand between fledgling Australian rules football and Gaelic football clubs.\n\nIn 2006, an exhibition match between South African youth teams and an Indigenous Australian touring side composed of players from the Clontarf Foundation, led by Sydney's Adam Goodes, was held at Potchefstroom.\n\nThe University of Birmingham, UK, holds an annual International Rules match between its Australian Rules football team and its Gaelic Football team, with the 2013 edition won by the Australian Rules team 56–55, before a crowd of over 400 students.\n\nIn the International Rules Series, the most well-known International Rules event, Australia and Ireland are at an impasse, with 10 series wins apiece. Most recently in 2017, Australia defeated Ireland with two Test wins and an aggregate score of 116-103.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31185014", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31185014", "title": "Jabal Al-Mukaber Club", "text": "Jabal Al-Mukaber Club\n\nJabal Al Mukaber is a Palestinian football team from the city of East Jerusalem, that plays in the West Bank Premier League.\n\nIn 2010, the club won the West Bank Premier League but more recently, it has been unable to play games in Jerusalem due to restrictions on players with Palestinian Authority identification, preventing them from entering Jerusalem. Matches are now played at the Faisal Al-Husseini International Stadium in Al-Ram.\n\nIn 2015 the club played in the West Bank Premier League.\n\nWest Bank Premier League: 1\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25875743", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25875743", "title": "Joffa Corfe", "text": "Joffa Corfe\n\nJeff \"Joffa\" Corfe (born 7 July 1964) is an Australian rules football supporter best known for being the leader of the Collingwood Football Club cheer squad since 2001.\n\nCorfe rose to prominence in 2002 by donning a gold jacket and holding up a \"Game Over\" banner during games when he felt Collingwood had secured victory, usually in the fourth quarter. The jacket came from the Channel Nine wardrobe and had been previously worn by Bernard King and Tommy Hanlon Jr. When Corfe saw Eddie McGuire wear it on \"The Footy Show\", he emailed McGuire to ask if he could use it to celebrate Collingwood victories. McGuire had the jacket drycleaned and handed it over at a Victoria Park training session.\n\nBefore the 2003 AFL Grand Final, Corfe announced that he was going to discontinue use of the jacket, however after Collingwood's loss, he suggested that the jacket would make a comeback the next season. New jackets were introduced in 2005 and 2010. The last version featured the logo of the Epilepsy Foundation of Victoria on front and back. In 2010, Corfe said that he would retire the gold jacket \"if the Pies win the flag.\" He had the jacket on by the sixth minute of the final quarter of the 2010 AFL Grand Final replay, as Collingwood stormed to an easy win over St Kilda.\n\nFollowing a turbulent 10-year history the gold jacket was officially retired after the 2010 premiership win. The jacket was auctioned on eBay for $3,900, with all proceeds going to the Epilepsy Foundation of Victoria.\n\nIn 2011, a new version – known as the \"People's Jacket\" – was created by the Epilepsy Foundation and is worn by Collingwood supporters, usually children, after a win.\n\nCorfe, one of four boys and three girls, came from a working-class family in Melbourne. His mother, June Murphy, suffered from alcoholism and drug addiction. His father, Robert Corfe, who also suffered from alcoholism and drug addiction, drove a truck, delivered mail and had various other \"bum jobs\". When he was a young child, Corfe's family moved around various suburbs in Melbourne, escaping debt and financial obligations. By the time he was 14, in the mid 1970s, Corfe had left home and was living at the Allambie Boys Home in East Burwood, where he stayed for about five years. During this time he recalls a \"lovely couple\" taking him to Victoria Park, where he saw his first game of football. His six siblings also lived in and out of public homes and foster care throughout their early years due to their parents' chronic instability and poverty.\n\nIn his early adolescence, Corfe drifted between different jobs and different homes; his living situation alternating between public housing, his unstable family and the streets. He was homeless for four years in his late teenage years, until he got a job at a plastics factory in Hawthorn and was able to escape homelessness.\n\nToday, he is single, working and a social advocate. His daughter, Emma, was diagnosed at 13 (2003) with epilepsy and he has since become a vocal advocate for the Epilepsy Foundation of Victoria. He likes to read books and spend time with his three grandchildren – Simon, Jeffrey and Destiny-Pearl, who are indigenous. He has close connections with the indigenous community at Lake Tyers. He has not had a drink of alcohol since 2000. \"I never had a problem with it, but I have major problems with people who are intoxicated. They just don't make sense.\"\n\nAs well as being a charity fundraiser and a supporter of disadvantaged people, Corfe appears as a guest speaker at sportsmen's nights and social and charity events.\n\nCorfe is employed as a welfare worker at the Anchorage Hostel, a Salvation Army refuge for homeless men. He does night shift from 11 pm to 8.30 am. The hostel \"houses 57 men, with an average age of about 50. Half have mental health issues or brain injuries, their life administered by the state trustee. Many are alcoholics or drug users. Some choose to be outsiders, some have had that forced upon them.\"\n\nEddie McGuire says that he is a big fan of Corfe's. \"He's as rough as hessian undies\", says McGuire, \"but he has a tremendous intellect and an amazing capacity for good.\"\n\nCorfe is so well known in Australia that \"The Australian\" newspaper used his name in an opinion piece on the National Broadband Network debate.\n\nThroughout the 2012 AFL season, Corfe, with Ben Bronx, debuted the \"Bronxy & Joffa\" show on YouTube. On the weekly show they would discuss the biggest talking points of the previous round and preview the coming week of Australian Rules football.\n\nFrom 30 July 2011 to 6 August 2011, Joffa Corfe and Joffre Pearce, father of Danyle Pearce, a player with the Fremantle Football Club in the Australian Football League, completed a fundraising bicycle ride from Rockbank, outside of Melbourne, to Football Park in Adelaide. Along the way they met up with local football clubs, and gave and received encouragement. Olympic Gold Medalist Brett Aitken joined the riders on their final leg.\n\nThe ride raised over $1,300 for the Epilepsy Foundation of Victoria’s Parent Epilepsy Support Network.\n\nDuring one of the breaks in the NAB Cup three-way match at Docklands Stadium on 12 February 2011, \"Joffa\" turned out as a player for the \"Collingwood\" team in a charity fund-raiser against a celebrity \"Carlton\" team. Funds were raised to aid victims of the devastating Queensland floods.\nJoffa is an active supporter of RecLink football in general and the \"Collingwood Knights\" team in particular. RecLink is a national organisation that provides access to sporting and recreational opportunities as a form of social therapy for people experiencing social and economic disadvantage.\n\nHe has been an active and successful fundraiser for the Epilepsy Foundation of Victoria for many years. \"Joffa’s Walk for Epilepsy\" was run in 2006.\n\nIn conjunction with the release of \"\", Joffa the Movie Action Figure Bobblehead Dolls are currently being sold by the Epilepsy Foundation of Victoria to raise funds for epilepsy research.\n\nWhen the Carlton Football Club, long time nemesis of Joffa's beloved Collingwood, got itself into \"dire financial trouble\" in 2007, Joffa appeared in Carlton colours outside Flinders Street railway station \"to show he was serious about helping the club\". He described Carlton as one of the four \"powerhouses of the competition\" and said he would \"do anything\" to keep them from disappearing in a merger with another club. \"They're the club I love to hate, so I'd hate to see them go.\"\n\nOn 22 February 2012, during a tour of the United Kingdom with Ben Bronx, Joffa and Bronxy joined a rally to recognise Somaliland as an independent country, and to seek recognition from the British government. They raised awareness of the cause by rallying through the streets of London and by posting a video online that went viral.\n\nInspired by the classic Australian movie \"The Club\", producer-director Chris Liontos decided to make his own film about Aussie rules football \"\"through the eyes of the most passionate supporter in the country\".\" \"\" was released nationally on 2 September 2010. For such \"\"an ultra-low budget movie to get a national cinema release – this has never happened (before)\",\" Liontos said. The official website describes Joffa's life outside football as \"hilariously funny\" and promises \"a journey that explores mateship, trust and the human spirit\".\n\nThe DVD of the movie was released in December 2010 by Madman Entertainment. In reviewing the DVD, Filmink said: \"A ubiquitous, beguiling weirdo, Joffa is warm and funny playing himself...\" The DVD includes a full set of commentaries, bloopers and footage of Collingwood's 2010 Grand Final win celebrations.\n\nJoffa's book was launched by Father Bob Maguire on Thursday, 11 June.\n\nThe book was reviewed by Rohan Connolly in \"The Age\" and Peter Rolfe in the Sunday \"Herald Sun\".\n\nWhen Prime Minister, Julia Gillard, tried to rally voters during the 2010 Federal election by calling for a \"unity ticket\" of people who hated the Collingwood Football Club, Corfe reacted by saying that she had \"lost his vote\". When she was asked to explain her comments, Gillard said that she had no choice but to \"stick with her footy principles\". Joffa said, \"For a Prime Minister to jump on the anti-Collingwood bandwagon, I reckon it’s a bit poor... We don’t need that stuff on the national political stage.\" He added: \"I have gone to the Greens, she’s finished.\"\n\nIn 2008 Corfe created controversy when photographs of him posing with two rifles in the manner of Melbourne criminal Chopper Read were posted on a Collingwood supporters' internet forum. His actions were criticised by gun control activists but Collingwood's president, Eddie McGuire, defended Corfe's character.\n\nAfter a ban on the use of the term \"white maggot\" in reference to umpires was introduced at the Gabba in 2007, Corfe defended the right of supporters to use the term. He compared security at the ground to Gestapo.\n\nAlthough Corfe has been the highest profile member of the Collingwood cheer squad, he has not always had a comfortable relationship with other fans and club staff. In 2003 leaflets criticising his behaviour and including his home address were distributed at a Collingwood match.\n\nIn round 18 of the 2002 AFL season, in a match between Collingwood and their archrival Carlton, Corfe drew attention to the fact that Carlton were going to finish last that year by waving an oversized wooden spoon. The spoon was initially confiscated, though it was later put on display at the Collingwood club rooms. Collingwood won that game by 108 points.\n\n"}
{"id": "1913644", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1913644", "title": "John M. Belk Arena", "text": "John M. Belk Arena\n\nJohn M. Belk Arena is a 5,295-seat multi-purpose arena, located on the campus of Davidson College, in Davidson, North Carolina, United States.\n\nIt is named for Davidson alumnus and benefactor John M. Belk (1920–2007), class of 1943.\n\nAs the centerpiece of the Baker Sports Complex, it is home to the Davidson Wildcats men's and women's basketball teams, the Davidson Wildcats wrestling team, and the women's volleyball team.\n\nThe playing surface is named McKillop Court in honor of current men's basketball coach Bob McKillop, who has coached the most victories in the school's history.\n\nBob Dylan performed at the arena during his 2006 North American Tour on May 2, 2006.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28796628", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28796628", "title": "Lahore Gymkhana Club", "text": "Lahore Gymkhana Club\n\nThe Lahore Gymkhana Club is a social and sports club in Lahore, Pakistan. It offers sports facilities, including golf, swimming, cricket and squash, and organizes social activities for the members. It is situated on Upper Mall Road or Shahrah-e-Quaid-e-Azam.\n\nEstablished on 1st May, 1878, Lahore Gymkhana was formed to provide social recreation, and sports facilities to the residents of Lahore city and cantonment. The Club is spread over land, measuring , leased from Punjab Government. \n\nAfter independence of Pakistan, the management of the club was taken over by native residents. It is presently managed by a committee of elected members.\n\nThe Lahore Gymkhana has the following facilities available for its members: golf course, tennis courts, squash courts, swimming pools, cricket ground, billiard room and gym. It also frequently organizes concerts, lectures, and seminars.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8113193", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8113193", "title": "Lead apron", "text": "Lead apron\n\nA lead apron or leaded apron is a type of protective clothing that acts as a radiation shield. It is constructed of a thin rubber exterior and an interior of lead in the shape of a hospital apron. The purpose of the lead apron is to reduce exposure of a hospital patient to x-rays to vital organs that are potentially exposed to ionizing radiation during medical imaging that uses x-rays (radiography, fluoroscopy, computed tomography).\n\nProtection of the reproductive organs with a lead apron is considered important because DNA changes to sperm or egg cells of the patient may pass on genetic defects to the offspring of the patient, causing serious and unnecessary hardship for child and parents.\n\nThe thyroid gland is especially vulnerable to x-ray exposure. Care should be taken to place a lead apron over\nthe thyroid gland before taking dental radiographs. Aprons used for dental imaging should include thyroid collars.\n\n"}
{"id": "26601444", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26601444", "title": "Lesotho Cycling Association", "text": "Lesotho Cycling Association\n\nLesotho Cycling Association (also known as Lesotho Cycling and Lesotho Cycling Federation) is the national governing body of cycle racing in Lesotho.\n\nLesotho Cycling Association is a member of the Union Cycliste Internationale through the Confederation Africaine de Cyclisme. Lesotho Cyclists usually compete in Cycling South Africa races.\n\n"}
{"id": "39482300", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39482300", "title": "Martin Miriata", "text": "Martin Miriata\n\nMartin Miriata is an I-Kiribati footballer who plays as a Striker for current champions Makin football club. In the Kiribati Islands Football Association (KIFA) . He represents Kiribati at international level.\n\nMiriata made four appearances at the 2011 Pacific Games, in the 3–0 loss to Cook Islands, the 9–0 loss to Fiji and in the respective 1–17 losses to Tahiti and Papua New Guinea.\n"}
{"id": "25674952", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25674952", "title": "Martin Rowley", "text": "Martin Rowley\n\nMartin Rowley has been a professional golf caddie since the late 1980s and has been both secretary and chairman of the European Tour Caddies Association.\n\nA former Scholar of the world famous Repton school, he has a passion for all sports and the values they bring to the people participating and the communities they live in.\n\nRowley is a regular feature on the PGA European Tour and was at Ian Woosnam's side during his successful captaincy at the 2006 Ryder Cup.\n\nHe has also worked with the following Ryder Cup players: Eamonn Darcy, Ken Brown, Darren Clarke and Miguel Ángel Jiménez. He currently caddies for Ian Garbutt and is behind golfnavigation.co.uk.\n\nHe is now more well known for assisting young aspiring golfers and is a regular fixture in The Coach and Horses public house, Worcester, where he will happily regail golfing tales over a fine pint with allcomers.\n\n"}
{"id": "42130752", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42130752", "title": "Matt Reoch", "text": "Matt Reoch\n\nMatthew \"Matt\" Reoch (born 25 February 1983) is a Gibraltarian footballer who plays for Gibraltar Second Division side FC Olympique 13 and the Gibraltar national team, where he plays as a Defender.\n\nHe is the son of current Gibraltar Football Association president Desmond Reoch.\n\nSantos was first called up to the Gibraltar senior team in February 2014 for friendlies against Faroe Islands and Estonia on 1 and 5 March 2014. He made his international début with Gibraltar on 5 March 2014 in a 2-0 home loss to Estonia.\n\n"}
{"id": "5003735", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5003735", "title": "Mattke Field at the Regional Events Center", "text": "Mattke Field at the Regional Events Center\n\nMattke Field at the Regional Events Center is a college football stadium on the campus of Southwest Minnesota State University (SMSU).\n\nMattke Field had a seating capacity of 5,000 prior to 2008 and it has been the home field of the SMSU Mustangs since 1971. Construction began in 1970, and it was complete in 1974. It was originally named SSU Field. On September 28, 1985, the stadium was renamed after Glenn Mattke. He had worked with the SMSU athletic department since its founding in 1968 and was the athletic direct from 1970 to 1985. Lights were added in 1997. The stadium was rebuilt after the 2007 season and opened in 2008 as the Regional Events Center. The new capacity is around 2,500 and features an artificial surface.\n\n"}
{"id": "44823369", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44823369", "title": "Melikşah Üniversitesi S.K.", "text": "Melikşah Üniversitesi S.K.\n\nMelikşah Üniversitesi Gençlik ve Spor Kulübü, commonly known as Melikşah Üniversitesi, was a Turkish professional basketball club based in Kayseri. During its three-year existence, the club played in the TBL, the second tier of Turkish basketball. The team was founded by Kayseri Melikşah Üniversitesi in 2013. Their home arena was Recep Mamur Sports Hall, which has a capacity of 500 seats. The team was sponsored by Mondi, which is a furniture company, and therefore was named Mondi Melikşah Üniversitesi during its last two seasons.\n\n"}
{"id": "4200623", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4200623", "title": "Mexico at the 1900 Summer Olympics", "text": "Mexico at the 1900 Summer Olympics\n\nMexico competed at the modern Olympic Games for the first time at the 1900 Summer Olympics in Paris, France.\n\nGold medals were not given at the 1900 Games. A silver medal was given for a first place, and a bronze medal was given for second. The International Olympic Committee has retroactively assigned gold, silver, and bronze medals to competitors who earned 1st, 2nd, and 3rd place finishes, respectively, in order to bring early Olympics in line with current awards.\n\n\nMexico was one of four nations to compete in the first Olympic polo event. The Mexican foursome tied for third place despite losing their only match.\n"}
{"id": "47362986", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47362986", "title": "Moussa Souleiman", "text": "Moussa Souleiman\n\nMoussa Souleiman (born 1962) is a Djiboutian long-distance athlete.\n\nSouleiman competed for his country at the 1992 Summer Olympics held in Barcelona, he entered the 5000 metres where he came 13th in his heat so didn't qualify for the next round.\n"}
{"id": "34368888", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34368888", "title": "Myokine", "text": "Myokine\n\nA myokine is one of several hundred cytokines or other small proteins (~5–20 kDa) and proteoglycan peptides that are produced and released by muscle cells (myocytes) in response to muscular contractions. They have autocrine, paracrine and/or endocrine effects; their systemic effects occur at picomolar concentrations.\n\nReceptors for myokines are found on muscle, fat, liver, pancreas, bone, heart, immune, and brain cells. The location of these receptors reflect the fact that myokines have multiple functions. Foremost, they are involved in exercise-associated metabolic changes, as well as in the metabolic changes following training adaptation. They also participate in tissue regeneration and repair, maintenance of healthy bodily functioning, immunomodulation; and cell signaling, expression and differentiation.\n\nThe definition and use of the term myokine first occurred in 2003.\nIn 2008, the first myokine, myostatin, was identified. The gp130 receptor cytokine IL-6 (Interleukin 6) was the first myokine found to be secreted into the blood stream in response to muscle contractions.\n\nThere is an emerging understanding of skeletal muscle as a secretory organ, and of myokines as mediators of physical fitness through the practice of regular physical exercise (aerobic exercise and strength training), as well as new awareness of the anti-inflammatory and thus disease prevention aspects of exercise. Different muscle fiber types -slow twitch muscle fibers, oxidative muscle fibers, intermediate twitch muscle fibers, and fast twitch muscle fibers - release different clusters of myokines during contraction. This implies that variation of exercise types, particularly aerobic training/endurance training and muscle contraction against resistance (strength training) may offer differing myokine-induced benefits.\n\n\"Some myokines exert their effects within the muscle itself. Thus, myostatin, LIF, IL-6 and IL-7 are involved in muscle hypertrophy and myogenesis, whereas BDNF and IL-6 are involved in AMPK-mediated fat oxidation. IL-6 also appears to have systemic effects on the liver, adipose tissue and the immune system, and mediates crosstalk between intestinal L cells and pancreatic islets. Other myokines include the osteogenic factors IGF-1 and FGF-2; FSTL-1, which improves the endothelial function of the vascular system; and the PGC-1alpha-dependent myokine irisin, which drives brown fat-like development. Studies in the past few years suggest the existence of yet unidentified factors, secreted from muscle cells, which may influence cancer cell growth and pancreas function. Many proteins produced by skeletal muscle are dependent upon contraction; therefore, physical inactivity probably leads to an altered myokine response, which could provide a potential mechanism for the association between sedentary behaviour and many chronic diseases.\"\n\nHeart muscle is subject to two kinds of stress: physiologic stress, i.e. exercise; and pathologic stress, i.e. disease related. Likewise, the heart has two potential responses to either stress: cardiac hypertrophy, which is a normal, physiologic, adaptive growth; or cardiac remodeling, which is an abnormal, pathologic, maladaptive growth. Upon being subjected to either stress, the heart \"chooses\" to turn on one of the responses and turn off the other. If it has chosen the abnormal path, i.e. remodeling, exercise can reverse this choice by turning off remodeling and turning on hypertrophy. The mechanism for reversing this choice is the microRNA miR-222 in cardiac muscle cells, which exercise up-regulates via unknown myokines. miR-222 represses genes involved in fibrosis and cell-cycle control.\n\nImmunomodulation and immunoregulation were a particular focus of early myokine research, as, according to Dr. Bente Klarlund Pedersen and her colleagues, \"the interactions between exercise and the immune system provided a unique opportunity to evaluate the role of underlying endocrine and cytokine mechanisms.\"\n\nBoth aerobic exercise and strength training (resistance exercise) attenuate myostatin expression, and myostatin inactivation potentiates the beneficial effects of endurance exercise on metabolism.\n\nAerobic exercise provokes a systemic cytokine response, including, for example, IL-6, IL-1 receptor antagonist (IL-1ra), and IL-10 (Interleukin 10). IL-6 was serendipitously discovered as a myokine because of the observation that it increased in an exponential fashion proportional to the length of exercise and the amount of muscle mass engaged in the exercise. This increase is followed by the appearance of IL-1ra and the anti-inflammatory cytokine IL-10. In general, the cytokine response to exercise and sepsis differs with regard to TNF-α. Thus, the cytokine response to exercise is not preceded by an increase in plasma-TNF-α. Following exercise, the basal plasma IL-6 concentration may increase up to 100-fold, but less dramatic increases are more frequent. The exercise-induced increase of plasma IL-6 occurs in an exponential manner and the peak IL-6 level is reached at the end of the exercise or shortly thereafter. It is the combination of mode, intensity, and duration of the exercise that determines the magnitude of the exercise-induced increase of plasma IL-6.\n\nIL-6 had previously been classified as a proinflammatory cytokine. Therefore, it was first thought that the exercise-induced IL-6 response was related to muscle damage. However, it has become evident that eccentric exercise is not associated with a larger increase in plasma IL-6 than exercise involving concentric “nondamaging” muscle contractions. This finding clearly demonstrates that muscle damage is not required to provoke an increase in plasma IL-6 during exercise. As a matter of fact, eccentric exercise may result in a delayed peak and a much slower decrease of plasma IL-6 during recovery.\n\nIL-6, among an increasing number of other recently identified myokines, thus remains an important topic of myokine research. It appears in muscle tissue and in the circulation during exercise at levels up to one hundred times basal rates, as noted, and is seen as having a beneficial impact on health and bodily functioning in most circumstances. P. Munoz-Canoves et al. write: \"It appears consistently in the literature that IL-6, produced locally by different cell types, has a positive impact on the proliferative capacity of muscle stem cells. This physiological mechanism functions to provide enough muscle progenitors in situations that require a high number of these cells, such as during the processes of muscle regeneration and hypertrophic growth after an acute stimulus. IL-6 is also the founding member of the myokine family of muscle-produced cytokines. Indeed, muscle-produced IL-6 after repeated contractions also has important autocrine and paracrine benefits, acting as a myokine, in regulating energy metabolism, controlling, for example, metabolic functions and stimulating glucose production. It is important to note that these positive effects of IL-6 and other myokines are normally associated with its transient production and short-term action.\"\n\nInterleukin-15 stimulates fat oxidation, glucose uptake, mitochondrial biogenesis and myogenesis in skeletal muscle and adipose tissue. In humans, basal concentrations of IL-15 and its alpha receptor (IL-15Rα) in blood have been inversely associated with physical inactivity and fat mass, particularly trunk fat mass. Moreover, in response to a single session of resistance exercise the IL-15/IL-15Rα complex has been related to myofibrillar protein synthesis (hypertrophy).\n\nBrain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) is also a myokine, though BDNF produced by contracting muscle is not released into circulation. Rather, BDNF produced in skeletal muscle appears to enhance the oxidation of fat. Skeletal muscle activation through exercise also contributes to an increase in BDNF secretion in the brain. A beneficial effect of BDNF on neuronal function has been noted in multiple studies. Dr. Pedersen writes, \"Neurotrophins are a family of structurally related growth factors, including brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), which exert many of their effects on neurons primarily through Trk receptor tyrosine kinases. Of these, BDNF and its receptor TrkB are most widely and abundantly expressed in the brain. However, recent studies show that BDNF is also expressed in non-neurogenic tissues, including skeletal muscle. BDNF has been shown to regulate neuronal development and to modulate synaptic plasticity. BDNF plays a key role in regulating survival, growth and maintenance of neurons, and BDNF has a bearing on learning and memory. However, BDNF has also been identified as a key component of the hypothalamic pathway that controls body mass and energy homeostasis.\n\n\"Most recently, we have shown that BDNF appears to be a major player not only in central metabolic pathways but also as a regulator of metabolism in skeletal muscle. Hippocampal samples from Alzheimer’s disease donors show decreased BDNF expression and individuals with Alzheimer’s disease have low plasma levels of BDNF. Also, patients with major depression have lower levels of serum BDNF than normal control subjects. Other studies suggest that plasma BDNF is a biomarker of impaired memory and general cognitive function in ageing women and a low circulating BDNF level was recently shown to be an independent and robust biomarker of mortality risk in old women. Low levels of circulating BDNF are also found in obese individuals and those with type 2 diabetes. In addition, we have demonstrated that there is a cerebral output of BDNF and that this is inhibited during hyperglycaemic clamp conditions in humans. This last finding may explain the concomitant finding of low circulating levels of BDNF in individuals with type 2 diabetes, and the association between low plasma BDNF and the severity of insulin resistance.\n\n\"BDNF appears to play a role in both neurobiology and metabolism. Studies have demonstrated that physical exercise may increase circulating BDNF levels in humans. To identify whether the brain is a source of BDNF during exercise, eight volunteers rowed for 4 h while simultaneous blood samples were obtained from the radial artery and the internal jugular vein. To further identify the putative cerebral region(s) responsible for BDNF release, mouse brains were dissected and analysed for BDNF mRNA expression following treadmill exercise. In humans, a BDNF release from the brain was observed at rest and increased 2- to 3-fold during exercise. Both at rest and during exercise, the brain contributed 70–80% of the circulating BDNF, while this contribution decreased following 1 h of recovery. In mice, exercise induced a 3- to 5-fold increase in BDNF mRNA expression in the hippocampus and cortex, peaking 2 h after the termination of exercise. These results suggest that the brain is a major but not the sole contributor to circulating BDNF. Moreover, the importance of the cortex and hippocampus as sources of plasma BDNF becomes even more prominent in the response to exercise.”\n\nWith respect to studies of exercise and brain function, a 2010 report is of particular interest. Erickson et al. have shown that the volume of the anterior hippocampus increased by 2% in response to aerobic training in a randomized controlled trial with 120 older adults. The authors also summarize several previously-established research findings relating to exercise and brain function: (1) Aerobic exercise training increases grey and white matter volume in the prefrontal cortex of older adults and increases the functioning of key nodes in the executive control network. (2) Greater amounts of physical activity have been associated with sparing of prefrontal and temporal brain regions over a 9-y period, which reduces the risk for cognitive impairment. (3) Hippocampal and medial temporal lobe volumes are larger in higher-fit older adults (larger hippocampal volumes have been demonstrated to mediate improvements in spatial memory). (4) Exercise training increases cerebral blood volume and perfusion of the hippocampus.\n\nRegarding the 2010 study, the authors conclude: \"We also demonstrate that increased hippocampal volume is associated with greater serum levels of BDNF, a mediator of neurogenesis in the dentate gyrus. Hippocampal volume declined in the control group, but higher preintervention fitness partially attenuated the decline, suggesting that fitness protects against volume loss. Caudate nucleus and thalamus volumes were unaffected by the intervention. These theoretically important findings indicate that aerobic exercise training is effective at reversing hippocampal volume loss in late adulthood, which is accompanied by improved memory function.\"\n\nSeldin, Peterson, Byerly, Wei and Wong clarify that most myokines are also secreted by non-muscle cells. In 2012, they reported: \"The expression of all myokines described to date is not restricted to skeletal muscle; they are generally expressed by a variety of cell types, and most are, in fact, expressed at much higher levels by nonmuscle tissues. Prior to (our) study, no myokine has been discovered to be preferentially expressed by skeletal muscle. While characterizing the metabolic function of the C1q/TNF-related protein (CTRP) family of proteins we recently uncovered, we identified myonectin (CTRP15) as a novel member of the family on the basis of sequence homology in the shared C1q domain, the signature that defines this protein family... (Myonectin) is a novel nutrient-responsive myokine secreted by skeletal muscle to regulate whole-body fatty acid metabolism... Circulating levels of myonectin were tightly regulated by the metabolic state; fasting suppressed, but refeeding dramatically increased, its mRNA and serum levels. Although mRNA and circulating levels of myonectin were reduced in a diet-induced obese state, voluntary exercise increased its expression and circulating levels. Accordingly, myonectin transcript was up-regulated by compounds (forskolin, epinephrine, ionomycin) that raise cellular cAMP or calcium levels... In vitro results of myonectin expression in myotubes suggest that exercise-induced rises in intracellular calcium levels may also up-regulate myonectin expression in intact skeletal muscle... Consistent with enhanced mRNA expression in skeletal muscle of mice subjected to voluntary exercise, circulating levels of myonectin also increased, suggesting a potential role of myonectin in exercise-induced physiology.\n\n\"Given that exercise induces myonectin expression in skeletal muscle, we next addressed whether short- and long-term changes in nutritional/metabolic state also regulate myonectin expression and circulating levels. Surprisingly, an overnight fast greatly suppressed myonectin expression, but a 2-h refeeding period (following an overnight fast) dramatically up-regulated its mRNA expression in skeletal muscle. Intriguingly, refeeding induced myonectin mRNA expression to a much greater extent in soleus than in plantaris muscle fiber of both male and female mice (data not shown), suggesting that myonectin expression may be regulated differentially depending on muscle fiber type. Consistent with the mRNA data, fasting reduced, but refeeding substantially increased, circulating levels of myonectin... As compared with mice fed an isocaloric matched low-fat diet, mice fed a high-fat diet had lower myonectin mRNA and serum levels, suggesting that obesity-induced alteration in energy balance may be linked to dysregulation of myonectin-mediated processes in the obese state... A relatively modest rise in serum myonectin levels was sufficient to lower (by >30%) nonesterified free fatty acid (NEFA) levels over time relative to vehicle-injected controls. However, no significant difference was observed in serum triacylglycerol levels between the two groups of mice. These data suggest a potential role of myonectin in regulating systemic fatty acid metabolism... Treatment of adipocytes with recombinant myonectin (5 micrograms/ml) also enhanced fatty acid uptake to the same extent as insulin... To determine whether myonectin-mediated enhancement of lipid uptake is specific to adipocytes, we also tested the effect of myonectin on lipid uptake in rat H4IIE hepatocytes. We observed a modest (>25%) but consistent increase in fatty acid uptake into hepatocytes stimulated with myonectin (5 micrograms/ml), an effect similar to cells treated with a saturating dose of insulin (50 nM)... Together, these results indicate that myonectin promotes lipid uptake into adipocytes and hepatocytes via transcriptional up-regulation of genes involved in fatty acid uptake...\n\n\"We provide the first characterization of myonectin, with in vitro and in vivo evidence that it is a novel myokine with important metabolic function. Unlike the other CTRPs characterized to date, myonectin (CTRP15) is expressed and secreted predominantly by skeletal muscle... (Our) results suggest that myonectin is a nutrient-responsive metabolic regulator secreted by skeletal muscle in response to changes in cellular energy state resulting from glucose or fatty acid fluxes. Many metabolically relevant secreted proteins (e.g. adiponectin, leptin, resistin, and RBP) and the signaling pathways they regulate in tissues are known to be dysregulated in the condition of obesity. The reduction in expression and circulating levels of myonectin in the obese state may represent yet another component of the complex metabolic circuitry dysregulated by excess caloric intake. Although exercise has long been known to have profound positive impacts on systemic insulin sensitivity and energy balance, the underlying mechanisms remain incompletely understood. That voluntary exercise dramatically increases the expression and circulating levels of myonectin to promote fatty acid uptake into cells may underlie one of the beneficial effects of physical exercise... A modest rise in the circulating levels of myonectin resulting from recombinant protein administration is sufficient to lower serum NEFA without altering serum triglyceride levels. Unlike CTRP1, CTRP3 and CTRP12, injection of recombinant myonectin into mice appears to have no glucose-lowering effect. Reduction in circulating NEFA is not due to suppression of adipose tissue lipolysis; rather, it results from increased fatty acid uptake by adipocytes and hepatocytes. Although the myonectin-mediated enhancement of lipid uptake in vitro appears modest (25–50%), in fact, the magnitude of this effect is comparable with cells stimulated with 50 nM insulin, a saturating dose that leads to maximum increase in fatty acid uptake... In accordance with myonectin mediating its metabolic effect through a transcriptional mechanism, a reduction in circulating NEFA in mice occurred only 2 h after recombinant protein injection, a lag period presumably required for mRNA and protein synthesis.\"\n\nDecorin is an example of a proteoglycan which functions as a myokine. Kanzleiter et al have established that this myokine is secreted during muscular contraction against resistance, and plays a role in muscle growth. They reported on July 1, 2014: \"The small leucine-rich proteoglycan decorin has been described as a myokine for some time. However, its regulation and impact on skeletal muscle (had) not been investigated in detail. In (our recent) study, we report decorin to be differentially expressed and released in response to muscle contraction using different approaches. Decorin is released from contracting human myotubes, and circulating decorin levels are increased in response to acute resistance exercise in humans. Moreover, decorin expression in skeletal muscle is increased in humans and mice after chronic training. Because decorin directly binds myostatin, a potent inhibitor of muscle growth, we investigated a potential function of decorin in the regulation of skeletal muscle growth. In vivo overexpression of decorin in murine skeletal muscle promoted expression of the pro-myogenic factor Mighty, which is negatively regulated by myostatin. We also found Myod1 and follistatin to be increased in response to decorin overexpression. Moreover, muscle-specific ubiquitin ligases atrogin1 and MuRF1, which are involved in atrophic pathways, were reduced by decorin overexpression. In summary, our findings suggest that decorin secreted from myotubes in response to exercise is involved in the regulation of muscle hypertrophy and hence could play a role in exercise-related restructuring processes of skeletal muscle.\"\n\nIrisin is a cleaved version of FNDC5. Boström and coworkers named the cleaved product irisin, after the Greek messenger goddess Iris. FNDC5 was initially discovered in 2002 by two independent groups of researchers.\n\nIrisin (fibronectin type III domain-containing protein 5 or FNDC5), a recently described myokine hormone produced and secreted by acutely exercising skeletal muscles, is thought to bind white adipose tissue cells via undetermined receptors. Irisin has been reported to promote a brown adipose tissue-like phenotype upon white adipose tissue by increasing cellular mitochondrial density and expression of uncoupling protein-1, thereby increasing adipose tissue energy expenditure via thermogenesis. This is considered important, because excess visceral adipose tissue in particular distorts the whole body energy homeostasis, increases the risk of cardiovascular disease and raises exposure to a milieu of adipose tissue-secreted hormones (adipokines) that promote inflammation and cellular aging. The authors enquired whether the favorable impact of irisin on white adipose tissue might be associated with maintenance of telomere length, a well-established genetic marker in the aging process. They conclude that these data support the view that irisin may have a role in the modulation not only of energy balance but also the aging process.\n\nHowever, exogenous irisin may aid in heightening energy expenditure, and thus in reducing obesity. Boström et al. reported on December 14, 2012: \"Since the conservation of calories would likely provide an overall survival advantage for mammals, it appears paradoxical that exercise would stimulate the secretion of a polypeptide hormone that increases thermogenesis and energy expenditure. One explanation for the increased irisin expression with exercise in mouse and man may have evolved as a consequence of muscle contraction during shivering. Muscle secretion of a hormone that activates adipose thermogenesis during this process might provide a broader, more robust defense against hypothermia. The therapeutic potential of irisin is obvious. Exogenously administered irisin induces the browning of subcutaneous fat and thermogenesis, and it presumably could be prepared and delivered as an injectable polypeptide. Increased formation of brown or beige/brite fat has been shown to have anti-obesity, anti-diabetic effects in multiple murine models, and adult humans have significant deposits of UCP1-positive brown fat. (Our data show) that even relatively short treatments of obese mice with irisin improves glucose homeostasis and causes a small weight loss. Whether longer treatments with irisin and/or higher doses would cause more weight loss remains to be determined. The worldwide, explosive increase in obesity and diabetes strongly suggests exploring the clinical utility of irisin in these and related disorders. Another potentially important aspect of this work relates to other beneficial effects of exercise, especially in some diseases for which no effective treatments exist. The clinical data linking exercise with health benefits in many other diseases suggests that irisin could also have significant effects in these disorders.\"\n\nWhile the murine findings reported by Boström et al. appear encouraging, other researchers have questioned whether irisin operates in a similar manner in humans. For example, Timmons et al. noted that over 1,000 genes are upregulated by exercise and examined how expression of FNDC5 was affected by exercise in ~200 humans. They found that it was upregulated only in highly active elderly humans, casting doubt on the conclusions of Boström et al. Further discussion of this issue can be found in the Wikipedia entry for irisin under the \"function\" heading.\n\nA novel myokine Osteonectin, or SPARC (secreted protein acidic and rich in cysteine), plays a vital role in bone mineralization, cell-matrix interactions, and collagen binding. Osteonectin inhibits tumorigenesis in mice. Osteonectin can be classed as a myokine, as it was found that even a single bout of exercise increased its expression and secretion in skeletal muscle in both mice and humans.\n\n"}
{"id": "35945142", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35945142", "title": "Naimoli Family Baseball Complex", "text": "Naimoli Family Baseball Complex\n\nThe Naimoli Family Baseball Complex is a baseball venue in Teaneck, New Jersey. It is home to the Fairleigh Dickinson Knights baseball team of the NCAA Division I Northeast Conference. The facility is named for the family of Vince Naimoli, a Fairleigh Dickinson alumnus. Built in 2011, the facility has a capacity of 500 spectators.\n\nThe field was built prior to the 2011 season. In 2007, its namesake, Vince Naimoli, donated $1 million for the facility's construction. Naimoli graduated from Fairleigh Dickinson in 1964 and was the first principal owner of the Tampa Bay Devil Rays.\n\nThe complex hosted its first game on April 8, 2011, in which Fairleigh Dickinson lost to Long Island 3-1. The field was not completed until partway through the season, and the team hosted games at a variety of venues during the first part of the 2011 season.\n\n"}
{"id": "37998742", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37998742", "title": "Penrith Ice Palace", "text": "Penrith Ice Palace\n\nThe Penrith Ice Palace (also known as Penrith Ice Rink.) is an ice sports and public skate centre, located at the Penrith precinct of Sydney, in New South Wales, Australia. It serves as the home ice rink of the Penrith Valley Figure Skating Club, Sydney Lightning and Sydney Maple Leafs. As of 2015 it is also the home ice rink of the Sydney Bears team for the Australian Ice Hockey League (AIHL).\n\n"}
{"id": "53804378", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53804378", "title": "Peremoha Stadium", "text": "Peremoha Stadium\n\nPeremoha Stadium is the main city stadium in Kamianske, Ukraine.\n\n"}
{"id": "2444610", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2444610", "title": "Respect (TV series)", "text": "Respect (TV series)\n\nRespect was a seven part documentary television series featuring some of the biggest names in British sport and was broadcast each Sunday at 5.00pm on Central Independent Television during November/December 1995.\n\nProduced at Central Independent Television studios in Birmingham, the series of half-hour programmes focussed on sportspeople of African Caribbean origin who have gained \"respect\" through their single-minded determination to their chosen sport.\n\nSubjects in the series were Lennox Lewis (Boxing), Judy Simpson (Athletics), Martin Offiah (Rugby league), Diana Bowles (Disabled Tennis), Tony Daley (Football), Gladstone Small (Cricket) and John Regis (Athletics). The narration was provided by sports presenter Garth Crooks.\n\nSays series producer and director Pogus Caesar. \"Over the past decade Britain has seen the tremendous impact and contribution of black people in sport on a worldwide scale.\n\"This will be the first series of its type which concentrates exclusively on black sports people, looking at their life stories and lifestyles and perhaps more importantly finding out what gives them the will to win.\" - contributors to the series included Sharron Davies, Ian Botham, Nigel Benn, Henry Cooper, Denise Lewis, John Barnes, Roger Black and Kriss Akabusi.\n\n\"Respect\" was produced and directed by Pogus Caesar, and is a Carlton Television UK production and a Central Independent Television programme.\n"}
{"id": "4919393", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4919393", "title": "RollerGames", "text": "RollerGames\n\nRollerGames was a U.S. television series that presented a theatrical version of the sport of roller derby for a national audience, and featured a number of skaters who had been in the Roller Games league (1961–1975), as well as younger participants. It was broadcast for one season (1989–1990). The series came from the combination of Roller Games owner William Griffiths, Sr. and the television production team of David Sams and Mike Miller. \n\nThe show took place in the Super Roller Dome, where all matches were broadcast. Instead of a banked oval track, a figure eight track was used where one side was heavily banked. It included obstacles such as the \"Wall of Death\" (which was located on the heavily banked side) and the \"Jet Jump\". The only ones who could score during each 45-second scoring cycle were the \"jetters,\" who wore helmets and got six points if they got above the top line for three steps on the Wall of Death without going over, and two points if they got between the two lines for three steps. The \"Jet Jump\" had a 12-foot marker that allowed six points if the jetter got past it, and two if the jetter landed in front of it. In either case, the jetter had to land safely. Also, there were only four skaters on the track at a time (instead of the usual five). \n\nThe rest of the cycle involved traditional roller derby elements of scoring one point for every opponent lapped. The players got as many 45-second cycles as possible within four six-minute periods (cut down from eight 12-minute periods in traditional roller derby). The team with the most points won. The last cycle went the full 45 seconds regardless of what the period clock said.\n\nThe first jetter to legally enter the jetwave won the status of \"lead jetter,\" and could cut off the cycle early by tapping his or her helmet, signaling the referees to call off the cycle.\n\nAs a tiebreaker, two skaters would skate around a pit full of alligators. The first skater to skate around the pit five times or to throw his or her opponent into the alligator pit was declared the winner. The debut episode was the only time live alligators were ever used, as no ties ever happened after that (although a \"news report\" featured another tiebreaker). The episode revealed one of the rare times that the T-Birds lost the championship, with the Violators taking it (although later footage revealed that Skull, the manager, cheated by interfering, but the Violators got to keep the Commissioner's Cup in spite of that).\n\nInstead of a penalty box, skaters that committed misdemeanors sat in a \"penalty pod,\" one of each was located on either side of the broadcast booth where Sams and Underwood called the action. Because the rules said there were always four skaters on the track, a jetter got one bonus point each time they passed the skater inside the pod. Referee Don Lastra frequently referred to the penalty pod as \"jail,\" and would tell skaters who got a penalty to \"go sit down.\" (Lastra would also fine players specific amounts of money; these fines were to be paid out of pocket as a check and given to him, since he issued the fines. Fines usually were issued if the act incurring a penalty came in between a period or after the end of the game, but the players who got fined always said vindication was theirs, and thus a moral victory was earned).\n\nThe \"world famous\" Los Angeles T-Birds were one of the teams used for the show. Other teams were the Rockers, Hot Flash, Violators, Bad Attitude and Maniacs. Many of the athletes that skated for Griffiths in the past were used for \"RollerGames\". (The Hot Flash team was referred as \"Hollywood Hot Flash\" on a couple of occasions.) Some of the most visible skaters included twin sisters Jennifer & Kristine Van Galder, the \"T-Bird Twins\" (two blonde waitresses that Sams recruited while dining at a trendy LA area eatery), \"The IceBox\" Robert Smith, brothers \"Mr. Mean\" Harold Jackson & \"Monster Man\" Bernie Jackson, Michael Flaningam \"The California Kid\", \"Skinney Minnie\" Gwen Miller, \"Electric\" Randi Whitman (who got her nickname because of her hair), \"Stars and Stripes\" Matt Bickham, \"Dar The Star\" Darlene Langlois, \"Latin Spitfire\" Patsy Delgado, \"Sweet\" Stephanie Garcia, and Rocker Speed Skater and Guitarist on the Roller Games TV Theme Song, Michael \"Fish\" Fischer (who was forced to leave the team before the first telecast because he broke his hand in practice), and Ralphie Valladares, whose daughter, Gina, skated for Hot Flash. Other past Roller Derby personalities to appear on \"RollerGames\" included \"Mizz\" Georgia Hase, the cantankerous heel manager of the Detroit Devils and Bad Attitude, and \"Little\" Richard Brown, the Maniacs' top skater who got to manage and coach several skaters on \"RollerJam\".\n\nSome of the storylines were off-the-wall, but tame by today's standards — the main storyline was a controversy involving the T-Bird Twins being drafted as one person (more on that below), rather than two. Hair-pulling and catfights were crowd favorites. When a fight broke out, the cameras frequently cut to a shot of an angry woman in a pink dress, glaring at the skaters.\n\nThe show became noted for its \"big controversy:\" according to a report from Sams, Georgia Hase claimed the T-Bird Twins were improperly drafted as one entity. Thus, Jennifer went to the Violaters, and Kristine went to the Maniacs. At the same time, the league office informed Ralphie Valladares that he was to be the first inductee into the Hall of Fame. This led Hase to object that, according to the rule book, Ralphie could not enter unless he hung up his skates for good. The league office did not intend for that to happen. Hase then decided that Ralphie would never skate again, as well as never go into the Hall of Fame.\n\nAfter two rule violations by John \"Guru\" Drew (manager for the Maniacs) and Chuck Skull (manager of the Violators) of physically abusing each of the T-Bird twins, Sams and on-the-track commentator Shelley Jamison brought up how each twin's contract was null and void, thus returning them to the T-Birds. This led Griffiths, Sr., as commissioner, to let the public decide on how this situation was to go. The American public overwhelmingly elected that Ralphie continue to skate while being inducted into the Hall of Fame, and that the twins return to the T-Birds for good (viewers in the continental 48 states could vote by calling a 900 number, while Alaska and Hawaii residents had to write a letter to a specific address, as the 900 number was not available to them). The exact number of votes was 75,468, with 96% voting \"YES\" and only 4% voting \"NO.\"\n\nAlthough the show was cancelled after one season, the show also featured an episode where Ralphie challenged the \"unholy 3\" (\"Mizz\" Georgia Hase, Guru Drew, Skull) to a 3-on-1 match race. Griffiths, Sr. pointed out that 3-on-1 wasn't legal according to league laws (during an interview with Wally George), but 2-on-1 was, so Skull had to drop out. While Ralphie dealt with Georgia and Drew, \"Stars and Stripes\" Matt Bickham reported to Shelley Jamison that he'd keep an eye on Skull. Due to the producers' bankruptcy and the show's subsequent cancellation, that match race never took place. The show also offered the public a chance to dial the same 900 number and vote on whether or not the alligators should be banned from the sport, but due to the cancellation, the viewers never got to see the outcome.\n\nIn 1989, television producers David Sams and Mike Miller teamed with Roller Games owner Bill Griffiths, Sr. to create a modern version of the sport marketed as \"Rock and RollerGames\". Sams provided color commentary while Chuck Underwood provided the main play-by-play.\n\nThe show also included halftime entertainment by musical performers like Lita Ford, Warrant, Exposé, and had halftime commentary by Wally George. Former Phoenix, Arizona news reporter Shelly Jamison (who also appeared nude in \"Playboy\") served as sideline reporter. \"RollerGames\" premiered in 95% of the country, and, though generally panned by critics, was well received among teenagers and college students.\n\nDirector Chet Forte was recruited to direct the show. Many of the graphics and camera techniques were unique for the day, like the cameras on the skaters. Additional segments were directed by producer David Sams, Joe Dea and wrestling director Andrew Hecker.\n\nIn many cities, \"RollerGames\" aired late at night, against \"Saturday Night Live\", while in others it aired mid-day on Saturdays. Although the show's ratings were quite good, even beating out \"American Gladiators\", it only lasted one season before getting cancelled due to some of the producers going bankrupt (War Productions, Sans-Miller Productions). However, co-producers Motown Productions, and the distributor, Qintex Productions (who also co-produced the Disney Channel's version of \"Kids Incorporated\" for two seasons) did not go bankrupt due to \"RollerGames\". RollerGames delivered a 4.7 national rating vs. the \"American Gladiators\" 2.5 rating. Its debut in New York scored a 9.3 overnight rating.\n\nThe show paved the way for a revival ten years later with the 1999 premiere of The New TNN's \"WSL RollerJam\", where former \"RollerGames\" skaters Richard Brown, Patsy Delgado and Ray Robles skated.\n\nIn January 2008, \"RollerGames\" coproducer David Sams announced that he \"intends to put banked-track Roller Sports back on Television and the Internet in 2008.\" He later announced that The David Sams Organization was recruiting skaters, coaches, trainers, and cheerleaders for a series that \"will be taped in the Los Angeles area, as early as this summer and fall.\" He also said \"A tour is being planned for the winter/spring of 2009.\"\n\nFollowing the cancellation of \"RollerGames\", Griffiths continued promoting an untelevised league under the name Roller Games International, which continues the sport of \"RollerGames\" to this day.\n\n"}
{"id": "26877018", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26877018", "title": "Saraburi Stadium", "text": "Saraburi Stadium\n\nSaraburi Stadium or Saraburi Provincial Administrative Organization Stadium (), is a stadium located in Saraburi, Thailand. It is currently used for football matches. The stadium holds 6,000 spectators.\n\n"}
{"id": "11250252", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11250252", "title": "Ski Museum of Maine", "text": "Ski Museum of Maine\n\nThe Ski Museum of Maine in Kingfield, Maine, United States, is devoted to preserving and presenting the history and heritage of skiing. The museum has an emphasis on artifacts and documents relating to the state of Maine. In 2009, the museum relocated from Farmington to Kingfield. It is now located on Route 27 in downtown Kingfield, near the historic Herbert Hotel and from Sugarloaf Mountain.\n\nThe club's collection includes approximately three dozen pairs of Maine-made skis that date from the early 20th century, numerous examples of leather ski boots and a variety of accessories.\n\nThe museum began informally in 1995 when several members of the Sugarloaf Ski Club were cleaning out the organization's files from the 1950s through 1970s. Lacking space to store the material, and reluctant to destroy it, they suggested creating a museum as a permanent repository.\n\nSeveral thousand Sugarloaf Ski Club documents formed the original nucleus of the archives. Many of these relate to the founding and early years of Sugarloaf, the state's second busiest ski resort. Another valuable collection of records and newspaper clippings was donated by Walter Melvin; these document several clubs and ski areas in the Bangor area from the 1930s through the 1960s.\n\nThe club's collection also includes documents and memorabilia from defunct ski areas such as Big A, in York, and Enchanted Mountain, south of Jackman.\n\nThe organization was incorporated in 1999, and in December, 2006, opened its first public exhibit in leased space at 109 Church Street in downtown Farmington: a collection of Maine-made ski equipment, including skis, boots and accessories.\n\nMany of these items were borrowed from the personal collection of Glenn Parkinson, a member of the museum's board of directors and the author of \"First Tracks\", a book that relates stories from the first 75 years of skiing in Maine. Donations of additional items and documents have been arriving weekly since the museum opened.\n\nIn early 2009 the museum completed the acquisition of a set of miniature skis that were crafted circa 1905 in Portland, Maine, by Theo A. Johnsen and used by him as a marketing tool for his Tajco brand ski equipment.\n\nOther museum activities include an online archive of vintage photographs, published in cooperation with the Maine Memory Network, a website of the Maine Historical Society.\n\nDuring the 2008–2009 ski season, the museum inaugurated a series of \"Fireside Chats,\" narrated digital slideshows the depict the history and heritage of Maine skiing from 1870 to the present.\n\nThe museum includes the Maine Ski Hall of Fame, which currently honors 39 Mainers who have made substantial contributions to the sport, both statewide and nationally.\n\n"}
{"id": "33503806", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33503806", "title": "Stade Océane", "text": "Stade Océane\n\nThe Stade Océane (or Grand Stade du Havre) is a football stadium in Le Havre, France. Its capacity is 25,178 all-seated and it is the home ground of Le Havre AC. It replaces the Stade Jules Deschaseaux as the club's home stadium. Its inauguration was 12 July 2012, with a friendly fixture between Le Havre AC and Lille. A similar stadium has been built in Haifa by KSS Architects.\n"}
{"id": "3681876", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3681876", "title": "Stade du 4 Août", "text": "Stade du 4 Août\n\nThe Stade du 4 Août 1983 is a multi-purpose stadium in Ouagadougou, Burkina Faso. It is currently used mostly for football matches and also has an athletics track. The stadium has a capacity of 35,000 people. Etoile Filante Ouagadougou play their home games at the stadium.\n\n"}
{"id": "18922855", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18922855", "title": "Tanzania at the 2008 Summer Paralympics", "text": "Tanzania at the 2008 Summer Paralympics\n\nTanzania competed in the 2008 Summer Paralympics in Beijing, China. The country's delegation consisted of a single athlete, Ernest Nyabalale. He trained in a Salvation Army facility in Tanzania under Kenyan Solomoni Maswai until a month before the games, on August 14, when he left for Nairobi to train with Kenyan athletes. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "30863", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30863", "title": "Test cricket", "text": "Test cricket\n\nTest cricket is the longest form of the sport of cricket and is considered its highest standard. Test matches are played between national representative teams with \"Test status\", as determined and conferred by the International Cricket Council (ICC). The two teams of 11 players each play a four-innings match, which may last up to five days (or longer in some historical cases). It is generally considered the most complete examination of teams' playing ability and endurance. The name \"Test\" stems from the long, gruelling match being both mentally and physically testing.\n\nThe first officially recognised Test match took place on 15–19 March 1877 and was played between at the Melbourne Cricket Ground (MCG), where Australia won by 45 runs. A Test match to celebrate 100 years of Test cricket was held in Melbourne on 12–17 March 1977, in which Australia beat England by 45 runs—the same margin as that first Test.\n\nIn October 2012, the ICC recast the playing conditions for Test matches, permitting day/night Test matches. The first day/night game took place between Australia and New Zealand at the Adelaide Oval, Adelaide, on 27 November–1 December 2015.\n\nThe equivalent for women is Women's Test cricket, which is played over four days with slight differences in format from men's Tests. \n\nTest matches are the highest level of cricket, although, statistically, their data form part of first-class cricket. Matches are played between national representative teams with \"Test status\", as determined by the International Cricket Council. , twelve national teams have Test status, the most recently promoted being Afghanistan and Ireland on 22 June 2017. Zimbabwe's Test status was voluntarily suspended, because of poor performances between 2006 and 2011; it returned to competition in August 2011.\n\nIn January 2014, during an ICC meeting in Dubai, the pathway for new potential Test nations was laid out with the winners of the next round of the ICC Intercontinental Cup playing a 5-day match against the bottom ranked Test nation. If the Associate team defeats the Test nation, then they could be added as the new Test country and granted full membership.\n\nA list of matches, defined as \"Tests\", was first drawn up by Australian Clarence Moody in the mid-1890s. Representative matches played by simultaneous England touring sides of 1891–92 (in Australia and South Africa) and 1929–30 (in the West Indies and New Zealand) are deemed to have \"Test status\".\n\nIn 1970, a series of five \"Test matches\" was played in England between England and a Rest of the World XI. These matches, originally scheduled between England and South Africa, were amended after South Africa was suspended from international cricket because of their government's policy of apartheid. Although initially given Test status (and included as Test matches in some record books, including \"Wisden Cricketers' Almanack\"), this was later withdrawn and a principle was established that official Test matches can only be between nations (although the geographically and demographically small countries of the West Indies have since 1928 been permitted to field a coalition side). Despite this, in 2005, the ICC ruled that the six-day Super Series match that took place in October 2005, between Australia and a World XI, was an official Test match. Some cricket writers and statisticians, including Bill Frindall, ignored the ICC's ruling and excluded the 2005 match from their records. The series of \"Test matches\" played in Australia between Australia and a World XI in 1971/72 do not have Test status. The commercial \"Supertests\" organised by Kerry Packer as part of his World Series Cricket enterprise and played between \"WSC Australia\", \"WSC World XI\" and \"WSC West Indies\" from 1977 to 1979 have never been regarded as official Test matches.\n\nThere are currently twelve Test-playing men's teams. The teams all represent individual, independent nations, except for England, the West Indies, and Ireland. Test status is conferred upon a country or group of countries by the International Cricket Council. Teams that do not have Test status can play in the ICC Intercontinental Cup, specifically designed to allow non-Test teams to play under conditions similar to Tests. The teams are listed below with the date of each team's Test debut:\n\nIn the mid 2010s, the ICC evaluated proposals for dividing Test cricket into two tiers, with promotion and relegation between Tier-1 and Tier-2. These proposals were supported by some national cricket govening bodies, but opposed by others. These proposals were ulimately not implemented.\n\nA standard day of Test cricket consists of three sessions of two hours each, the breaks between sessions being 40 minutes for lunch and 20 minutes for tea. However the times of sessions and intervals may be altered in certain circumstances: if bad weather or a change of innings occurs close to a scheduled break, the break may be taken immediately; if there has been a loss of playing time, for example because of bad weather, the session times may be adjusted to make up the lost time; if the batting side is nine wickets down at the scheduled tea break, then the interval may be delayed until either 30 minutes has elapsed or the team is \"all out\"; the final session may be extended by up to 30 minutes if 90 or more overs have not been bowled in that day's play (subject to any reduction for adverse weather); the final session may be extended by 30 minutes (except on the 5th day) if the umpires believe the result can be decided within that time.\n\nToday, Test matches are scheduled to be played across five consecutive days. However, in the early days of Test cricket, matches were played for three or four days. Four-day Test matches were last played in 1973, between New Zealand and Pakistan. Until the 1980s, it was usual to include a 'rest day,' often a Sunday. There have also been 'Timeless Tests', which did not end after a predetermined maximum time. In 2005, Australia played a match scheduled for six days against a World XI, which the ICC sanctioned as an official Test match, though the match reached a conclusion on the fourth day. In October 2017, the ICC approved a request for a four-day Test match, between South Africa and Zimbabwe, which started on 26 December 2017 and ended on the second day, 27 December. The ICC will trial the four-day Test format until the 2019 Cricket World Cup.\n\nThere have been attempts by the ICC, the sport's governing body, to introduce day-night Test matches. In 2012, The International Cricket Council passed playing conditions that allowed for the staging of day-night Test matches. The first day-night Test took place during New Zealand's tour to Australia in November 2015.\n\nTest cricket is played in \"innings\" (the word denotes both the singular and the plural). In each innings, one team bats and the other bowls (or fields). Ordinarily four innings are played in a Test match, and each team bats twice and bowls twice. Before the start of play on the first day, the two team captains and the match referee toss a coin; the captain who wins the toss decides whether his team will bat or bowl first.\n\nIn the following scenarios, the team that bats first is referred to as \"Team A\" and their opponents as \"Team B\".\n\nUsually the teams will alternate at the completion of each innings. Thus, Team A will bat (and Team B will bowl) until its innings ends, and then Team B will bat and Team A will bowl. When Team B's innings ends, Team A begin their second innings, and this is followed by Team B's second innings. The winning team is the one that scores more runs in their two innings.\n\nA team's innings ends in one of the following ways:\n\nIf, at the completion of its first innings, Team B's first innings total is 200 or more fewer than Team A's, the captain of Team A may (but is not required to) order Team B to have \"their\" second innings next. This is called enforcing the follow on. In this case, the usual order of the third and fourth innings is reversed: Team A will bat in the fourth innings. It is rare for a team forced to follow on to win the match. In Test cricket it has only happened three times, although over 285 follow-ons have been enforced: Australia was the losing team on each occasion, twice to England, in 1894 and in 1981, and once to India in 2001.\n\nIf the whole of the first day's play of a Test match has been lost because of bad weather or other reasons like bad light, then Team A may enforce the follow on if Team B's first innings total is 150 or more fewer than Team A's. During the 2nd Test between England and New Zealand at Headingley in 2013, England batted first after the first day was lost because of rain. New Zealand, batting second, scored 180 runs fewer than England, meaning England could have enforced the follow on, though chose not to. This is similar to four-day first-class cricket, where the follow on can be enforced if the difference is 150 runs or fewer. If the Test is 2 days or fewer then the \"follow-on\" value is 100 runs.\n\nAfter 80 overs, the captain of the bowling side may take a new ball, although this is not required.The captain will usually take the new ball: being harder and smoother than an old ball, a new ball generally favours faster bowlers who can make it bounce more variably. The roughened, softer surface of an old ball can be more conducive to spin bowlers, or those using reverse swing. The captain may delay the decision to take the new ball if he wishes to continue with his spinners (because the pitch favours spin). After a new ball has been taken, should an innings last a further 80 overs, then the captain will have the option to take another new ball.\n\nA Test match may end in one of six results:\n\nTest cricket is almost always played as a series of matches between two countries, with all matches in the series taking place in the same country (the host). Often there is a perpetual trophy that is awarded to the winner, the most famous of which is the Ashes contested between England and Australia. There have been two exceptions to the bilateral nature of Test cricket: the 1912 Triangular Tournament, a three-way competition between England, Australia and South Africa (hosted by England), and the Asian Test Championship, an event held in 1998–99 and 2001–02.\n\nThe number of matches in Test series has varied from one to seven. Up until the early 1990s, Test series between international teams were organised between the two national cricket organisations with umpires provided by the home team. With the entry of more countries into Test cricket, and a wish by the ICC to maintain public interest in Tests in the face of the popularity of one-day cricket, a rotation system was introduced that sees all ten Test teams playing each other over a six-year cycle, and an official ranking system (with a trophy held by the highest-ranked team). In this system, umpires are provided by the ICC. An elite panel of eleven umpires has been established, and the panel is supplemented by an additional International Panel that includes three umpires named by each Test-playing country. The elite umpires officiate almost all Test matches, usually not Tests involving their home country.\nThere has been no World Cup for Test Match conducted thus far by the ICC, since it is the longest format of the game, due to which the Championship might go on for years together. However, of late, the ICC is holding discussions to conduct a World Test Championship over a span of 2 years (starting its first Championship from 2019-2021 ), after failing to execute their plan of conducting this tournament twice, once during 2013 and another time during 2017. The schedule for 2019–21 Test Championship is a set of typical bilateral series in various countries put together, where one team is the host and other team is the visitor. The length of the series would vary between 2 matches to 5 matches. The result of each match carries a weighting of the points depending upon the length of the series: a single match in a 5-match series will account for 20% of the series points, while a match in a 2-match series will account for 50% of the series points.\n\nSides designated as \"England\" began to play in the late 18th century, but these teams were not truly representative. Early international cricket was disrupted by the French Revolution and the American Civil War. The earliest international cricket match was between USA and Canada, on 24 and 25 September 1844. This has never been officially considered a \"Test match\". Tours of national English sides abroad took place, particularly to the USA, Australia and New Zealand. The Australian Aborigines team became the first organised overseas cricketers to tour England in 1868.\n\nTwo rival English tours of Australia were proposed in the early months of 1877, with James Lillywhite campaigning for a professional tour and Fred Grace for an amateur one. Grace's tour fell through and it was Lillywhite's team that toured New Zealand and Australia in 1876–77. Two matches against a combined Australian XI were later classified as the first official Test matches. The first match was won by Australia, by 45 runs, and the second by England. After reciprocal tours established a pattern of international cricket, The Ashes was established as an ongoing competition during the Australian tour of England in 1882. Surprisingly beaten, a mock obituary of English cricket was published in the \"Sporting Times\" the following day: the phrase \"The body shall be cremated and the ashes taken to Australia\" prompted the subsequent creation of the Ashes urn. The series of 1884–85 was the first to be held over five matches: Shaw, writing in 1901, considered the side to be \"the best ever to have left England\".\n\nSouth Africa became the third team to play Test cricket in 1888–89, when they hosted a tour by an under-strength England side.\n\nThe following are the perpetual trophies in Test cricket.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46555971", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46555971", "title": "The All-American Boy (film)", "text": "The All-American Boy (film)\n\nThe All-American Boy is a 1973 American drama film written and directed by Charles Eastman. The film stars Jon Voight, E. J. Peaker, Nancie Phillips, Art Metrano, Kathy Mahoney, Carole Androsky and Jeanne Cooper. The film was released by Warner Bros. on October 24, 1973.\n\nVic Bealer, a young boxer from a small town in Texas who is known by his ring name \"The Bomber,\" is seemingly on his way to big things, undefeated as an amateur and a possibility to make the U.S. Olympic boxing team.\n\nWithout explanation, Vic walks away from it all, including his family, his fiancee and his fighting career. Disaffected and disillusioned, he enters into relationships with small-town girls Janelle and Drenna, while trainer Arty wonders if the Bomber will ever return.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51997167", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51997167", "title": "The Arena (Ahmedabad)", "text": "The Arena (Ahmedabad)\n\nThe Arena by TransStadia or simply The Arena, is a multi-purpose stadium in Ahmedabad, Gujarat, located in Kankaria Lake. The stadium was completed in 2016 and officially opened on 7 October 2016. It has a capacity of over 20,000 people in the outdoor stadium and over 4,000 in the indoor arena and a FIFA standard football pitch. It was constructed under a public-private partnership (PPP) with the Government of Gujarat and SE TransStadia for developing a sports culture in India.\n\nThe Arena is considered to be Asia’s biggest and India’s first convertible stadium. It is the first stadium in India that can host more than a dozen sports combined with wellness, leisure and other luxurious facilities. The building includes a Sports Academy, Sports Science and Rehab Facility, a banquet, sports club, dining area and retail space. The stadium uses StadiArena technology for converting the stadium into a multi-purpose indoor arena within a span of 6 minutes at the press of a button. It was the only stadium from India nominated for Stadium of the Year award from StadiumDB.com and will face competition from the likes of Mercedes-Benz Stadium (USA), Wanda Metropolitano (Spain), 2018 FIFA World Cup stadiums in Moscow and St. Petersburg and 22 other world-class sporting arenas.\n\nThe Arena currently acts as a home ground for Pro Kabaddi club, Gujarat Fortune Giants, and other domestic sides like Gujarat State Football Association and Gujarat State Table Tennis Association. The stadium hosted the 2016 Kabaddi World Cup, 2017 Pro Kabaddi and 2017-18 Santosh Trophy alongside various cultural and commercial events.\n\nThe stadium was established in the year 2017. This was the dream project of Udit Sheth, Narendra Modi and Government of Gujarat since 2009. After eight years of work, the multi-purpose stadium was inaugurated by honorable Prime Minister Narendra Modi in June 2016. The stadium hosted the 2016 Kabaddi World Cup even before it was inaugurated.\n\nIn 2009, Sheth got the idea of using technology from StadiArena U.K. from “stadiologist” and former English footballer Paul Fletcher. Fletcher has spent 40 years in the football business and 20 years as a player. TransStadia realized that there is this prime property at Abad Dairy near Kankaria Lake in the middle of the city which is not utilized except some games are played every week. The company wrote a letter to Narendra Modi, the then chief minister of Gujarat to seek permission for construction of a multi-purpose stadium with a vision of indulging sports in the culture of Gujarat. The state’s budget for sports increased from 35 crores to ₹350 crores which increased furthermore with the construction of this stadium. The stadium also helps the government in nurturing the talent of young India and develop new athletes for India to shine on the world sports map. Amount of ₹550 crores were put into the construction of this marvelous structure. State government handed over 9.24 acres of land to the company. TransStadia was also committed to not take large profits, unlike other stadiums. The costs will be covered over the span of next 7–9 years.\n\nThe stadium is currently named for its developer, TransStadia, although naming rights will be sold at a later date. The company believes, inspiration has always been a pre-requisite for commitment and it was therefore decided to use all elements that would inspire the name. Sports has always been a patriotic subject, hence the colors of the Indian national flag, the tricolor was used in the shield logo very creatively to instill a sense of belonging to everyone.\n\nThe stadium and Sports Performance and Rehab Centre were inaugurated on 30 June 2017 by Prime Minister of India, Narendra Modi with the presence of Gujarat’s chief minister, Vijay Rupani and various Indian sports stars like, former badminton player and coach, Pullela Gopichand, Indian shuttler, Srikanth Kidambi, former Indian football captain and commentator, Baichung Bhutia, Paralympian, Deepa Malik, Olympians, Gagan Narang and Sushil Kumar, Indian kabaddi captain, Anup Kumar and Gujarat cricket team captain, Parthiv Patel along with other cricketers from the state like, Irfan Pathan, Cheteshwar Pujara and Jaydev Unadkat.\n\nThe assessment and training equipment available at the center is one of the first in the country which consists of a Pro Reaction Timer, a Swift SpeedLight, a Touch Mat/Speed-Mat and more such equipment which might prove helpful in the all-round development of athletes. The prime minister also visited the mobile medical van equipped with specialized doctors to test and guide children across the country, giving them insights into different sports best suited to their skills.\n\nNarendra Modi while addressing the gathering at the stadium said that the country must adopt a culture where sports is appreciated and supported by everyone, starting from the family. Further commending sportspersons of the country, he added: “Khel Mahakumbh” has brought in a change and encouraged a sporting culture in Gujarat. Speaking on the occasion, TransStadia managing director, Udit Sheth thanked Narendra Modi to inaugurate the very project he envisioned with them. They have created a viable sports infrastructure with world-class technology and thus creating diverse and strong revenue models where sports can become an industry.\n\nThe seven-floor, 550 crore facility made its debut in the 2016 Kabaddi World Cup even before it was inaugurated. It saw India battle it out against South Korea in their first encounter on 7 October 2016.\n\nThe Arena is a multi-purpose stadium built under public-private partnership (PPP) with the Government of Gujarat. The $82.15 million contract for construction of this stadium was given to Holmes Miller Architects and DSP Design Associates, who have contributed in many such large sports infrastructure development projects both in and outside India.\n\nThe stadium addresses a serious problem faced by many stadiums in India, they are generally underutilised and are financially overbearing to the state. TransStadia came up with this self-sustained design of the stadium to overcome this major problem and develop a building in the heart of the city which can support a range of sports and other events at the same time. The developers mentioned that the design is largely inspired by some of the greatest sporting venues like Wembley Stadium in the U.K., Tokyo Dome in Japan and Amsterdam Arena in the Netherlands.\n\nThe stadium has a sprawling 1.3 million sq. feet of sports and entertainment area built with an idea to maximize profit through multi-dimensional usage. The south stand of The Arena is where the real architecture comes in handy. The company obtained the license for a patented “T-Box” from StadiArena U.K. which converts a 20,000 capacity outdoor ground to a 4,000 capacity pillarless 47,000 sq. feet multi-purpose indoor venue in 6 minutes at a touch of a button.\n\nThe stadium focuses on maximizing fan engagement and multiplying commercial opportunities. The structure is built with highest standards of quality, safety and security; and is Zone 4 earthquake-resistant. It has been granted the green building status due to its sustainable site development, rainwater harvesting, energy efficiency and efficient space management techniques.\n\nThe stadium boasts of a state of the art FIFA standard pitch at an elevation of 4.8 meters, with a seating capacity of 20,000 and a natural grass turf, specially made of Bermuda grass for sporting as well as non-sporting events. It consists of two major and four minor access points, the pitch also facilitates the ease of media coverage for live broadcasting by providing 6,100 sq. feet of area and 11,000 sq. feet international standard player facilities with 4 locker rooms, which makes it an ideal venue for large format sporting and cultural events.\n\nThe pitch has been designed with an idea to increase stadium utilization capacity from the worldwide average of 2% to 67% per annum. This technology combined with the world-class facilities has attracted the attention of various sporting venues across the globe. Paul Fletcher, C.E.O., StadiArena has also shown his interest in adopting this technology in the UK, to provide clubs with a true community building, every aspect of which is used.\n\nThe indoor arena lies in the south stand of the stadium and houses the best of technology to convert a 20,000 capacity ground into 4,000 capacity indoor venue for sporting events, expositions, musical events, plays, etc. It uses patented stand convertibility technology from StadiArena UK which makes it the largest convertible convention centre in Asia. It also provides a unique mobile spectator experience using a smart alternative to the conventional brick and mortar modular grandstand spectator seating through T-Box technology that enables sporting events to be constructed, retracted, transformed, removed, downsized and made to disappear within a matter of days. It is a modular, multi-purpose and flexible technique which is helpful in providing efficient space utilization.\n\nThe indoor arena is mostly used for sports like kabaddi, table tennis, boxing etc. It hosted 2016 Kabaddi World Cup and acts as the home ground for Pro Kabaddi team, Gujarat Fortune Giants.\n\nThis project has been constructed keeping in mind an all green building standards of power saving, smart water and power utilization, fire safety and other such factors. It also puts great emphasis on sustainable development with various water conservation methods like rainwater harvesting, mist firefighting and zero wastewater discharge from two different plants: water treatment plant and state of the art sewage plant. It guarantees to decrease the load on water resources by reusing and recycling 100 percent of used or already treated water. It also has 44 km of electric cabling and 14 km of Wi-Fi cabling. It also has almost 19000 sq. meters of landscaped areas a nd including gardens and an infinity swimming pool looking across the field of play. The structure of stadium has been designed for upgraded seismic zone 4 of highest resistance for safety at the time of an earthquake.\n\nThe stadium also includes amenities like provision for parking of approximately 900 cars or 1200 two-wheelers in a two-level basement, 450 toilets for men, women and the differently-abled, and 28 elevators.\n\nStadiArena is an air-conditioned pillar less multipurpose indoor arena with over 32000 sq. feet area. The stadium is also equipped with the T-Box facility which provides retractable seating system which enables 4,000 seats to convert from the outdoor arena to indoor arena. It is equipped with world’s only turf protection system which gets manufactured from truly translucent HDPE material, it allows for continues photosynthesis while at the same time ensures the optimal turf health, together with a 30 years UV degradation guarantee. It is also equipped with EKA club which provides with a bunch of different facilities like hospitality suits, terrace gardens, children’s play area, cafeteria and restaurant, banquet, lobby and kiosks, card room and retail parking. Other amenities at the EKA club include an infinity swimming pool, a fitness studio and a Body Transformation Center (BTC).\n\nThe stadium has been prepared in a manner that it can host 14 sports, like, football, kabaddi, tennis, badminton, table tennis, squash, boxing and many more. The developers consciously sidestepped cricket to focus more on the development of other sports in the country.\n\nHosting the World Cup was a watershed moment for India and the state because Gujarat has never hosted a world event before. The Arena was very quick to learn from Star India the international best practices for hosting such world events in terms of hospitality, fan management, player management, broadcast and more. Hosting the world cup at The Arena was a stimulating and learning experience for a relatively new stadium which is trying to make a mark in the sports world. It proved to be a fantastic event to showcase over 120 countries where the tournament was broadcast live, that what new urban India stands for. The indoor Arena has witnessed one of the greatest moment when the home team lifted the world cup in 2016.\n\nIt is a tournament held by International Table Tennis Federation (ITTF) and the Asian Table Tennis Union (ATTU). The ITTF- ATTU 30th Asian Cup Finals were held at The Arena by TransStadia and it threw two new champions, Lin Gaoyuan and Zhu Yuling from China won the men singles and the women singles title respectively.\n\nThe 2017 season of Pro Kabaddi League (PKL) was hosted by The Arena which was the fifth season of one of the largest leagues in India. It is a professional kabaddi league in India established in 2014 with only 8 teams organized by Mashal Sports and Star Sports. But, this season included 12 teams and The Arena acted as the home ground for the Gujarat Fortune Giants.\n\nThe Mission XI Million Football Festival (MXIM) was held at The Arena by TransStadia which marked participation from 6,000 children in the presence of All India Football Federation (AIFF) President, Praful Patel, former Indian football team captain, Baichung Bhutia, Bollywood star, Hrithik Roshan, and TransStadia Founder & MD, Udit Sheth. The Arena by TransStadia is equipped with FIFA standard football pitch which enabled the exhibition game to be played with best amenities.\n\nState of the art infrastructure combined with the best of technologies, and location right in the most heart of Ahmedabad, makes The Arena one of the best venues to host a range of events from musical concerts to expositions and other such events. For the very purpose, TransStadia has created another company named White River Entertainment for controlling and managing such large-scale events.\n\nA. R. Rahman, one of the most famous and iconic singers of India performed at the Arena by TransStadia in Ahmedabad on 3 December 2017. His concert, Encore Tour 2017, was attended by over 15,000 people from across Gujarat and of all age groups. The Arena has all the facilities of the sound system as well as the lightings to host a large-scale concert like this.\n\nThe stadium was chosen as the venue for the biggest film awards in Gujarati cinema, the Gujarat Iconic Film Awards, popularly known as GIFA on 6 January 2018.\n\nThe Arena hosted the 96th stage performance of the Mughal-e-Azam play. It took place at the Arena from 8 to 11 March 2018. The event was organized and performed at The Arena itself and recorded a relatively good turnover.\n\nThe stadium currently has a basement parking space which holds a parking capacity of up to 900 cars. It also has a height of 6.80 meters to accommodate Volvo buses for events and media to enter and park. The public transport services which currently connects to the stadium are, Ahmedabad Municipal Transport Service (AMTS) and Bus Rapid Transit System (BRTS), these buses cover almost the whole Ahmedabad city and provide a good connectivity to this location. Although there are no means to reach the stadium directly, one can reach the stadium from Kankaria Lake AMTS station or Raipur Darwaja BRTS station which are approximately at 400 meters and 850 meters distance respectively.\n\nGujarat Fortune Giants<br>\nGujarat State Football Association\n"}
{"id": "50373148", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50373148", "title": "The Flying Fifty-Five (1924 film)", "text": "The Flying Fifty-Five (1924 film)\n\nThe Flying Fifty-Five is a 1924 British silent sports film directed by A. E. Coleby and starring Lionelle Howard, Stephanie Stephens and Brian B. Lemon. It is based on a novel by Edgar Wallace, and was remade as a sound film in 1939.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48546605", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48546605", "title": "Toronto Raptors Training Centre", "text": "Toronto Raptors Training Centre\n\nThe Toronto Raptors Training Centre is a basketball practice facility in Toronto, Ontario, Canada. Opened on February 10, 2016, the facility is home to the Toronto Raptors of the National Basketball Association, and operated by the team's owner, Maple Leaf Sports & Entertainment (MLSE). The facility has two full size basketball courts, locker rooms, training and medical facilities, player amenities, and a \"technologically advanced cognitive operations centre\" powered by IBM Watson, which consolidates and analyzes data from many sources and represented through the centre's interactive displays and on mobile devices.\n\nIn November 2013, it was reported that MLSE had contracted an architect to design a new practice facility for the Raptors. The team had trained on a practice court located in the ACC since its opening in 1999, and a new facility would allow this space to be repurposed into a restaurant or nightclub. An agreement was reached with the City of Toronto to construct the facility at the city-owned Exhibition Place. It will feature two courts, one of which will be open to the public, and Canada Basketball will also use the facility.\n\nMLSE will pay the entire $30 million construction cost and lease the property from the city for $205,000 annually, subject to reassessments for inflation, for a 20-year term, with two options to extend it by a further 10 years, following which the city would take ownership of the building. MLSE has requested that the city exempt the portion of the facility that is available to the public (32%) from city taxes. Construction was scheduled to begin in November 2014, with the facility completed in time for the team's hosting of the NBA All-Star Game in February 2016.\n\nThe proposal was approved by the Board of Governors of Exhibition Place on August 14, the Executive Committee of the City of Toronto on August 20, and the Toronto City Council on August 25.\n\nIn November 2015 it was announced that the facility would be named the BioSteel Centre, after corporate sponsor BioSteel Sports Nutrition Inc.. However, in 2018 the facility was renamed the Toronto Raptors Training Centre.\n\nRaptors 905, the Raptors NBA Development League affiliate team based in Mississauga, also occasionally practice at the Toronto Raptors Training Centre.\n"}
{"id": "7732208", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7732208", "title": "Turkey at the 2002 Winter Olympics", "text": "Turkey at the 2002 Winter Olympics\n\nTurkey competed at the 2002 Winter Olympics in Salt Lake City, United States.\n\n\nSprint\n\nSprint\nPursuit\n\n"}
{"id": "49122795", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49122795", "title": "Ultra-distance cycling", "text": "Ultra-distance cycling\n\nThe definition of ultra-distance cycling is far more vague than in ultra running (any race longer than a marathon) or in ultra-triathlon (any race longer than an Ironman Triathlon). Any bike race longer than a century ride, which is , is sometimes considered to be ultra-distance cycling. However, such events are relatively common, so using a longer distance to define the category is more useful, such as any race that is longer than , or even a double century, .\n\nBike races that cover these distances but which are split into stages do not fit most definitions of ultra-distance races - the clock needs to run continuously from start to finish. Even so, extra-long stages within a longer race may be long enough to be an ultra-distance race by themselves. In addition, any team events in which individual cyclists do not complete the full distance are not considered to be ultra-distance.\n\nBike races that can be described as ultra-distance are organized below according to the type or format of the race. This is not an exhaustive list of such races, but the longest, most important (as measured by the level of media interest), or most popular (as measured by the number of participants) races within each category are mentioned.\n\nIn the early days of bicycle racing in the late 1800s, six-day racing on velodromes was popular. Only the original race format is a true ultra-distance cycling race as defined here because it was a simple test of how far an individual cyclist could ride during the six day-long event. The format evolved away from this to involve teams of two riding in a relay format. Later, the non-stop nature of the race was changed to only race during part of each day.\n\nIn the early days of professional road bicycle racing there were many one-day road races and stages in grand tours that were much longer than those of today. Bordeaux-Paris in France was the longest one-day, annual professional bike race; it had a route of about and was run almost every year between 1891 and 1988. After 1988, the longest one-day professional bike race became Porto–Lisboa in Portugal, which was about long. Porto-Lisboa was last held in 2004, and Milan-San Remo in Italy has since then been the longest race at .\n\nParis–Brest–Paris was a professional bike race that covered a massive in France, and was only held every 10 years from 1891 until 1951, but has since continued as a randonneuring event (see below).\n\nCycling's grand tours used to include far longer stages than they do today. The longest ever Tour de France stage was in the 1919 Tour and that year every one of the 15 stages was more than long. The longest ever stage in the Giro d’Italia was in the 1914 Giro and that year 5 of the 8 stages were longer than . The Vuelta a España did not begin until 1935 and the first edition was when its longest-ever stage was held, which was . In modern grand tours, stages longer than are increasingly rare and the limit set by the Union Cycliste Internationale (UCI) for any individual stage during a stage race is 240 km.\n\nThere are no longer any true ultra-distance bike races (i.e., that are longer than ) that are affiliated with cycling's main governing body, the UCI; most modern ultra-distance races are instead affiliated with the UltraMarathon Cycling Association (UMCA). By far the best-known of these races is the Race Across America (RAAM), a non-stop race across the United States that covers .\n\nIn this format of racing, the cyclists race individually (drafting and group riding are not allowed) but each cyclist has at least one support vehicle and a team of support staff. This specific format of racing is often referred to as \"ultracycling\", which is why it would be incorrect to refer to all ultra-distance cyling as ultracycling. Many ultracycling races include a team category that operates in a relay format and so doesn’t meet the criteria for an ultra-distance cycling race used here (in which individuals must ride the complete distance).\n\nOther ultracycling races include the Race ACross Europe (RACE), which is long. The oldest ultracycling race in Europe is the Glocknerman, an Austrian cycling event with a distance of that was first held in 1997. The Race Across The Alps is only long but contains over of climbing and so the organizers claim it to be the hardest one-day race in the world.\n\nThe first Race Across Russia was held in 2013 as a non-stop team relay event with a total distance of about between Moscow and Vladivostok. In 2015 it became the Red Bull Trans-Siberian Extreme with a solo category and the route was split into 15 separate stages, each between and long.\n\n12-hour and 24-hour road cycling time trials have been around for a long time and are still common. In these events, cyclists attempt to ride the maximum distance possible within the time limit. The current 24 hour record is over on a traditional bicycle and over in a velomobile.\nIn 2014, the UMCA revived interest in the highest annual mileage record, which was last set in 1939 by Tommy Godwin at . This involves riding the maximum distance possible within a 12-month period. In early 2016, Kurt Searvogel broke the record, achieving a distance of in one year or per day.\n\nSome races have recently become popular that recall the early era of professional bike racing in which riders were unsupported and raced day and night. The most popular of these is the Transcontinental Race, which covers approximately across Europe and was inspired by the off-road US event called the Tour Divide. As in ultra-cycling events, there is a mass start, but in bikepacking races, drafting is not allowed and all support is forbidden, so there are no support vehicles and riders must find all of their supplies, accommodation, etc. from commercial sources along the route or bring it with them. Another popular example in this category include the Trans Am Bike Race, which is more than 50% longer than the Transcontinental Race at , and so it is currently the longest non-stop bike race in the world. The IncaDivide, is a shorter distance event (1,800km / 1,120mi) which brings the high altitude cycling experience. It is the highest self-supported race that takes riders above 4,920 meters (16,140 feet) in the Andes mountains of Peru. \n\nUnsupported rides are sometimes done as completely solo attempts outside of organized rides, but are still well-publicized. These often involve riding point to point (including city to city), for example Vegas In 24.\n\nRandonneuring events (also called brevets or audaxes) are generally non-competitive rides where racing is not the focus; they are ridden more as personal challenges. They also differ from most ultracycling and bikepacking races in that group riding and drafting is allowed. Supplies and accommodation are often provided by the organizers at intermediate checkpoints, but the use of support vehicles is not allowed outside of the checkpoints.\nThe most famous of this type of event is Paris-Brest-Paris in France, in which over 5,000 people attempt to complete the long route in under 90 hours. The randonnee version evolved from the professional bike race (see above) and is held every four years. There are many similar events of between and around the world, including London-Edinburgh-London in the UK and the Cascade 1200 in the USA. For a more complete list, see the page on randonneuring. There are also many more shorter-distance randonneuring rides, which are typically , , or long.\n\nCyclosportives (also known as gran fondos) are mass-participation cycling events. They are far less serious than pure bike races, but times are recorded and prizes are often awarded to the fastest people. The organizers normally provide full support in terms of marking the route and providing feed stations.\n\nThe event that proclaims itself to be the \"longest Granfondo in the world\" follows almost the same route as the professional Milan-San Remo bike race and is long. However, there are several similar events that are longer. Bordeaux-Paris was a professional race until 1988 and returned in 2014 as a cyclosportive with a route of about . Styrkeproven Trondheim-Oslo is a long race and cyclosportive in Norway. The Tour du Mont Blanc is a long cyclosportive over mountainous terrain through France, Switzerland, and Italy. Slightly longer still is the Wysam 333 in Switzerland at . There is also the Mallorca 312, which is a long ride around the island of Mallorca, the Dragon Devil version of the Dragon Ride Wales cyclosportive in the UK is long, and the Vätternrundan cyclosportive that does a tour of the Swedish lake is long. \n\nIn New Zealand, there is the Lake Taupo Cycle Challenge. The standard cyclosportive option involves a single lap of the lake, which is long, but there are also options to do two laps in one day for , with no support on the first lap, or start one day earlier and do four laps, , which is more of a randonneuring-format event. Every second year there is also an 8 lap option, long, but a following support vehicle is required for that version making it more of an ultracycling-format event.\n\nIn the USA, organized century rides of are common, with the format falling between a cyclosportive and a randonnee. There are also many organized double centuries of , one of the more popular ones being the Seattle to Portland Bicycle Classic, and at least one event even offers and options, the Los Angeles Wheelmen Grand Tour.\n\nThere are a few classic long-distance cycling routes for which time records are kept even though riders normally do not race simultaneously. These include Land's End to John o' Groats in the United Kingdom, which is about . On the longer end of the spectrum, there is Cairo to Cape Town in Africa, which is about . This record is currently held by Scottish endurance cyclist Mark Beaumont. The longest record of this format is the around the world cycling record, which requires the cyclist to cover by bike plus other requirements. A new women's around the world cycling record is currently being attempted by Scottish endurance cyclist Jenny Graham. In 2012 and 2014, a mass-start event called the World Cycle Race was organized based on these rules.\n\nIn the early days of road bike racing, most roads were not paved, so most races were held primarily on unpaved/dirt/gravel roads. Due to road infrastructure improving with time, road bike racing is now done almost entirely on paved roads. However, in the 21st century, riding and racing road bikes on gravel roads has gained popularity. One of the longest and most famous of the modern gravel bike races is the Dirty Kanza in Kansas, USA, which is long with a 350-miler announced for 2019 and options of 25, 50 and 100 mile courses as well. \n\nIn the UK, the Dirty Reiver is a 200 km off road cycling challenge that takes place in Hexham, Northumberland. \n\nAs on the road, some of the most popular ultra-distance mountain bike events are 12 and 24 hour time trials, of which there are many all over the world. In addition, there are many mountain bike races of at least , including the Leadville Trail 100 MTB (see also the list of marathon mountain bike races). Very few mountain bike races are longer than because the average speed on typical mountain biking terrain is much slower than that on the road.\n\nMountain bike races that take more than 24 hours to compete and in which the clock never stops running are where the bikepacking genre began, in which riders are entirely self-supported (see above for road-based bikepacking events). One of the most famous and popular off-road bikepacking events is the Tour Divide, which covers across the Rocky Mountains from Canada, through the USA, and finishes at the Mexican border. The Iditarod Trail Invitational in Alaska is run on snow bikes in winter and is long. The most popular off-road bikepacking race in Europe is the Tuscany Trail, which covers in central Italy. Also in Italy, the Italy Divide starts at the Roman Coliseum and finishes at Lake Garda, passing through Siena, Florence and Bologna en route. It mixes technical mountain bike sections with gravel trails.\n\nIn Central Asia, the Silk Road Mountain Race takes place in Kyrgyzstan, and covers 1,700 km (1,056 mi) in the Tien Shan mountain range.\n\nThe Titan Desert is a six-day stage race held in Morocco with a total distance of over .\n\nIn Australia, the Race to the Rock is an unsupported race through the Outback founded by Jesse Carlsson. The course and length differs each year, but generally finishes at Uluru; the 2018 edition was 3,500 km (2,175 mi) in total, and covered sections of Southern Australia as well as Tasmania.\n\nInstead of trying to maximize the distance ridden in one ride, some people try to maximize the height gained in one ride. Everesting is a challenge that involves repeatedly cycling up and down the same hill multiple times until the total height gain matches the height of Mount Everest, . There are also records for the most height gain achieved within a certain time period, for instance 24 hours.\n\n"}
{"id": "38966279", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38966279", "title": "Yaşar Doğu Sport Hall", "text": "Yaşar Doğu Sport Hall\n\nYaşar Doğu Sport Hall () is a multi-purpose indoor arena located in the Tekkeköy district of Samsun, Turkey. Named in honor of renowned Turkish sport wrestler Yaşar Doğu (1913–1961), the sports hall was opened end March 2013.\n\nThe sport hall is situated at Sanayi Mah. in Tekkeköy. The construction began in July 2011 and cost 35 million (approx. US$19.5 million), of which 80% was financed by Youth and Sports General Directoriate in Ankara and the remaining 20% by Samsun Metropolitan Municipality. The building covers an area of within a ground of . It has a total seating capacity consisting of 7,500 for spectators, 500 at moving grandstand and 300 for press. The complex houses also four big training halls, two squash halls, six big locker rooms, administrative, medical and social facilities.\n\nThe arena's first event hosted was an international Judo tournament organized by the International Judo Federation (IJF). In April and May 2013, music concerts for young people and a music festival will take place at the venue. An international amateur boxing tournament was scheduled to be realized in June 2013. It will host on July 4-14 2013 FIBA Europe Under-20 Championship for Women Division A events.\n\nMinister of Youth and Sports Suat Kılıç stated that the 1966-built sports hall with the same name in downtown Samsun having 1,700 seating capacity will be abandoned soon.\n\n\n\n\n"}
