{"id": "22743976", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22743976", "title": "1872 California-Nevada State Boundary Marker", "text": "1872 California-Nevada State Boundary Marker\n\nThe 1872 California-Nevada State Boundary Marker marks the initial point for the 1872 survey delineation of the state line between California and Nevada. It is listed in the National Register of Historic Places.\n\nWhen California attained statehood in 1850, it adopted 120 degrees west longitude as its eastern border. Between 1855 and 1900 there were six surveys to locate 120 degrees, with each locating 120 degrees of longitude differently. In 1872, Alexey Von Schmidt undertook the survey of the state line. He marked his survey line with stones, wood, and iron markers; the only one who placed such markers A new survey in 1893 showed that the Von Schmidt line was 1,600 to 1,800 feet west of the actual 120 degrees. However, California and Nevada both recognize the 1872 Von Schmidt survey and the 1893 survey as the state line.\n\nThe 1872 marker near Verdi, Nevada is a four-sided cast iron pylon eight feet tall. It includes the words \"CALIFORNIA\" on the west face of the pylon, \"NEVADA\" on the east face, \"1872, LONGITUDE 120 WEST OF GREENWICH, A.W. VON SCHMIDT, U.S.\" on the south face, and \"170 MILES 47 CHAINS TO OREGON\" on the north face. The marker is surrounded by a wrought iron fence.\n\nThe marker was listed in the National Register of Historic Places because it represents the initial point of survey for the California-Nevada border, and is a remnant of this survey.\n\nNGS gives current data for another 1872 marker that may still exist at the northeast corner of California.\n\n"}
{"id": "1657323", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1657323", "title": "Alexander Keith Johnston (1804–1871)", "text": "Alexander Keith Johnston (1804–1871)\n\nAlexander Keith Johnston FRSE FRGS FGS FEGS LLD (28 December 18049 July 1871) was a Scottish geographer and cartographer.\n\nHe was born at Kirkhill near Penicuik, south of Edinburgh. He was the son of Andrew Johnston and Isabel Keith. His brother was Thomas Brumby Johnston FRSE.\n\nAfter an education at the High School and the University of Edinburgh he was apprenticed to the Edinburgh engraver and mapmaker, James Kirkwood and William Home Lizars. In 1826, he joined his brother William (who would become Sir William Johnston, Lord Provost of Edinburgh) in a printing and engraving business, forming the well-known cartographical firm of W. and A. K. Johnston with offices based at 4 St Andrew Square in Edinburgh's New Town (demolished 2016) and their printworks based at Edina Works, off Easter Road. The firm used the clan motto of \"Ready Aye Ready\" as their logo. Early hikes in the West Highlands had led Johnston to despair at the accuracy of maps, and inspired a deire to rectify this. \n\nThe rest of Johnston's life was devoted to geography, his later years to its educational aspects especially. His services were recognised by the leading scientific societies of Europe and America.\n\nIn October 1849, he was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society of Edinburgh, his proposer being Robert Chambers. In 1862 he was a founding member of the Meteorological Society of Scotland. He was awarded an honorary doctorate (LLD) in 1865.\n\nHis Edinburgh address in later years was 16 Grosvenor Crescent in the affluent West End.\n\nHe died at Ben Rhydding, Yorkshire, in 1871. He is buried in the north-west section of Grange Cemetery in Edinburgh.\n\nJohnston combined cartography with a painstaking and scholarly approach to map production. He went on to establish a reputation for scope and accuracy. Thematic atlases became the hallmark of the company he had founded and W & A K Johnston were appointed engravers to King William IV in 1834. In 1835 he constructed the first English language physical globe of the world incorporating its geology, hydrography and meteorology.\n\nIn 1843 Johnston published \"The National Atlas of General Geography\". Johnston was the first to bring the study of physical geography into competent notice in England. His attention had been called to the subject by Alexander von Humboldt. In 1848 Johnston published \"The Physical Atlas\", followed by a second and enlarged edition in 1856. The atlas contained maps and descriptive letterpress to illustrates the geology, hydrography, meteorology, botany, zoology, and ethnology of the globe. \"The Physical Atlas\" was partly based on Heinrich Berghaus's German language \"Physikalischer Atlas\" and reflected the increased interest in the mapping of zoological and biological distributions. 18th century thinkers such as Montesquieu had stressed the importance of geography and climate as determining factors in history, and the concept of \"natural frontiers\". The atlas was a visual representation of Humboldtian science, which became popular in the 19th century and was preoccupied with the measurement of environmental parameters on a global scale. Berghaus and Johnston effectively illustrated the text of Humboldt's \"Kosmos\" and both atlases were subsequently plagiarized and abridged for school editions.\n\nJohnston published a \"Dictionary of Geography\" in 1850, with many later editions. \"The Royal Atlas of Modern Geography\" was first published in 1855 and served as an atlas of military geography to accompany Alison's \"History of Europe\" published in 1848. A variety of other atlases and maps for educational or scientific purposes. In 1856 Johnston published the \"School Atlas of Astronomy\".\n\nIn 1861 Johnston published the first edition of the \"Royal Atlas of Modern Geography\" with 48 maps. By 1914 the atlas had gone through 12 editions and morphed into the \"Johnston's Handy Royal Atlas of Modern Geography\" with 61 colour lithographed maps and an index of 84 pages. While the Bartholomew's \"Citizen's Atlas\" sold more copies, being half the price, the \"Royal Altlas\"became the standard library atlas throughout the British Empire.\n\nIn 1867 Johnston produced a new edition of his \"School Atlas of Classical Geography\". It contained a series of new maps that reflected the results of the most recent research into the classical antiquity. The \"Map of the Outer Geography of the Odyssey\" and two maps of ancient Greece were based on the scholarly work of William Ewart Gladstone, who had also revised the map plates and text of the atlas.\n\nIn 1871 Johnston published the \"Half-Crown Atlas of British History\" for the price sensitive educational market. It was designed as a connected series of maps for teachers and students and illustrated leading events of history.\n\nHe married Margaret Gray in 1837. She was thereafter known as Margaret Keith Johnston.\n\nHis eldest son, also named Alexander Keith Johnston (1844–1879), was also the author of various geographical works and papers.\n\nAttribution:\n\n"}
{"id": "8404184", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8404184", "title": "Area of Poland", "text": "Area of Poland\n\nThe following numbers characterize the area of Poland\n\n"}
{"id": "5960476", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5960476", "title": "Atlantic Northeast", "text": "Atlantic Northeast\n\nThe Atlantic Northeast is a region of North America, which includes the U.S. states of Connecticut, Massachusetts, Rhode Island, New Hampshire, New York, Vermont, and Maine, as well as the Canadian provinces of Québec, Nova Scotia, New Brunswick, Prince Edward Island and Newfoundland and Labrador.\n\nThe Atlantic Northeast region is noted for its cultural unity, stark climate, landscape of dense forests, and a shared economic history in the exploitation of logging and the regional fishery. Further uniting this area is the \"Gray Zone\" which is an area of land and sea which is claimed by both Canada and the United States. It is located off the coasts of New Brunswick and Maine. The only land within this area are two islands, Machias Seal Island and North Rock. The \"Gray Zone\" is one of four areas between the two countries whose sovereignty is still in dispute, but is the only one of the disputed areas containing land. In 1979, both countries filed a joint application to the International Court of Justice to avoid having the dispute settled when oceanic boundaries in the area were set for mineral and fishing rights. Canadians have had a continuous presence in the area since 1832 when a lighthouse was built.\n\nSince the Atlantic Northeast is such a large region, it is home to many different types of wildlife, sports teams, and geographical locations. The Atlantic Northeast is home to the Boston Celtics, Boston Bruins, New England Patriots, Halifax Hurricanes, Boston Red Sox and many more. It also includes many notable species including the Bald Eagle, Atlantic Salmon, and the Swamp Pink. Lastly, the Atlantic Northeast includes many geographical places of interest including the Northeast Canyons and Seamounts Marine National Monument and Salem, Massachusetts, home of the Salem Witch Trials.\n\nThough cross-border connections are widely acknowledged, the area has rarely been given a single name. \"Atlantic Northeast\" is a term that has been used most prominently in discussions of regional folk culture, another name that is used is Atlantica.\"\n\nThese names are often tied to various proposals for greater economic or political integration of the region\n\nNew England has a population of approximately 14,727,584\n\nHartford, Connecticut has a population of approximately 895,814\n\nProvidence, Rhode Island has a population of approximately 633,473\n\nBoston, Massachusetts has a population of approximately 667,137\n\nMontpelier, Vermont has a population of approximately 7,592\n\nConcord, New Hampshire has a population of approximately 42,620\n\nAugusta, Maine has a population of approximately 18,793\n\nThe Canadian Maritimes have a population of approximately 1,854,900\n\nNova Scotia has a population of approximately 949,500\n\nHalifax, Nova Scotia has a population of approximately 390,095\n\nNew Brunswick has a population of approximately 756,800\n\nFredericton, New Brunswick has a population of approximately 56,224\n\nPrince Edward Island has a population of approximately 148,600\n\nThe Atlantic Northeast region is known to have all four seasons. In the New England region of the United States summers are hot with an average temperature of 80-85 degrees Fahrenheit in late June through August. In the fall the air is cool with temperatures from 45-50 degrees Fahrenheit and in the spring, it tends to be rainy with temperatures from 40-60 degrees Fahrenheit. In the winter there tends to be a lot of snowfall averaging around 35 inches per year. The typical temperature in this area during the winter is around 25 degrees Fahrenheit. The Canadian Maritimes have seasons very similar to the New England areas. New Brunswick has cold winters ranging from approximately 19-31 degrees Fahrenheit and hot summers with temperatures from 72-77 degrees Fahrenheit. Prince Edward Island has a climate similar to New Brunswick with temperatures ranging from 46-71 degrees Fahrenheit in the summer and 11-26 degrees Fahrenheit in the winter. In the summer in Nova Scotia temperatures will reach around 75 degrees Fahrenheit and in the winter temperatures will drop as low as 24 degrees Fahrenheit.\n\nMajor geographical features of the Atlantic Northeast include the Appalachian Mountains, the Green Mountains, the Atlantic Ocean, the Long Island Sound, the Gulf of Maine, the Gulf of Saint Lawrence, the Bay of Fundy, the Merrimack River, the Boston Harbor, the Taunton River, the Blackstone River, the Connecticut River, the Housatonic River, and the Hoosic River.\n\nNortheast Canyons and Seamounts Marine National Monument - is a monument located 150 miles off the shore of Cape Cod. The Monument is 4,900 square miles of underwater canyons carved into the continental shelf, it also has an underwater mountain 7,000 feet above the Ocean floor. This monument is home to many marine species, fish, whales, and dolphins which is why it is a protected monument declared by President Obama.\n\nSalem, Massachusetts - is a famous location in New England known primarily for the Salem witch trials. It was also one of Massachusetts wealthiest ports for trading in the late 18th century\n\nAcadia National Park - On Mains Mount Desert island there is a national park called Acadia National Park, it is 47,000 acres of wilderness, trails, camping, and wildlife. Acadia National Park has the biggest mountain on the East Coast and its name is Cadillac Mountain.\n\nThe Maritime Province higher education committee is responsible for administering assisting post-secondary education systems.They also help with institution and government programs to educate people with a better learning environment. Nova Scotia - Nova scotia community college, Mckenzie college, Kingston Bible college, Gaelic college, and Canadian coast guard college. New Brunswick - New Brunswick community college, New Brunswick bible institute, Maritime college of forest technology, and Collège communautaire du Nouveau-Brunswick. Prince Edward island - Maritime Christian College, Collège Acadie, Holland College.\n\nAccording to archeologists humans first settled in the Atlantic Northeast during the last ice age roughly 11,000 years ago. The pro-dominate tribes in the Atlantic Northeast 11,000 years ago where the Wabanakis, Penobscots, and Mi'kmaqs. These tribes mainly inhabited the soon to be Maritimes Provinces like Vermont, New Hampshire, and Massachusetts. Before 1620 the conflicts between Native American tribes and English settlers started due to the alienation of tribes, they also kidnapped members of the tribes through violence. The violence among the Natives, French, and English confused the Native American tribes because they also traded with proper settlers but this left the tribes resentful of the European nations. With the presence of the French and English in the Atlantic Northeast attracted the Dutch to begin trading on the hudson river with different tribes. The new presence of these traders also brought unwanted microbes, viruses, and bacteria that took heavy toll on the Native American population. When smallpox swept the New England area in 1610 the Native American population hit an all time low since they were trying to fight off a virus that was not indigenous to the area. Eventually the population recovered but not completely, after the outbreak settlers became highly interested in there beaver pelts which the Natives would trade for glass, metal, and weapons.\n\nAlexander Graham Bell National Historic Site - Commemorates Alexander Graham Bell, a remarkable inventor who created Canada's first engine powered airplane, the worlds fastest boat, and the world's first telephone, along with many other fantastic achievements.\n\nHalifax Citadel National Historic Site - Take tours exploring the history of Fort George, its soldiers, learning legends of ghost stories, and even become a soldier for the day.\n\nFreedom Trail - A two and a half mile walking trail through the city of Boston that will take you past sixteen historic sites that led to the American Revolution including the Boston Common, the Park Street Church, the Granary Burying Ground, King's Chapel, the Old Corner Book Store, the Old State House, the site of the Boston Massacre, Faneuil Hall, the Paul Revere House, The Old North Church, the USS Constitution, and the Bunker Hill Monument.\n\nSalem Witch Museum - Visit the location of the Salem and learn about the history of the Salem Witch Trials of 1692 through life size figures and narrations everywhere you go in the Museum.\n\nFirst Baptist Church in America - Was founded in Providence, Rhode Island in 1638 by William Vincent Carpenter and Roger Williams and later rebuilt in 1774. Guided tours are available from Memorial Day through Labor Day on weekdays, and self tours of the landmark are available all year round.\n\nLake Champlain Maritime Museum - Open from May to October, the Lake Champlain Maritime Museum houses historic schooners, steamboats, wooden boats, shipwrecks, and even a Revolutionary War gunboat replica. Visitors can learn about the history of the lake's roll in commerce, communication, transportation, and war, as well as its natural history above and below sea level.\n\nCharlottetown City Hall - Visit the oldest municipal building on Prince Edward Island, built in 1888, visitors can tour the City Hall to learn about both past and present history of Prince Edward Island and the city of Charlottetown.\n\nConnecticut's Governor is Dannel Malloy\n\nRhode Island's Governor is Gina Raimondo\n\nMassachusetts' Governor is Charlie Baker\n\nNew Hampshire's Governor is Chris Sununu\n\nVermont's Governor is Phil Scott\n\nMaine's Governor is Paul LePage\n\nNew Brunswick's Provincial Premier is Brian Gallant\n\nNova Scotia's Provincial Premier is Stephen McNeil\n\nPrince Edward Island's Provincial Premier is Wade MacLaughlan\n\nNew England economy shows continuous growth in the second quarter of 2016. The unemployment rate is 4.4 percent which is a .6 drop from last years census in 2015. From 2015 to 2016 the job that had the most growth in a year was construction. The manufacturing nationally decreased from two thousand fifteen to two thousand and sixteen but the New England area had a nice increase.\n\nEmployment rate - Job growth in the New England states hit a growth rate of two point one percent which is an increase from last year.\n\nThe unemployment rate dropped .6 percent point and the number is resting at a steady 4.2 percent.\n\nMassachusetts - four percent\n\nNew Hampshire - three percent\n\nMaine - four percent\n\nVermont - three percent\n\nHome prices have raised nationally and regionally year-over-year house prices have all been positively marked up. However Massachusetts had the best house price gains out of the whole New England area which was a 5.2 percent mark up.\n\nMassachusetts - five percent increase\n\nNew Hampshire - four percent increase\n\nMaine - three percent increase\n\nVermont - two percent increase\n\nIn the Atlantic Northeast it is common to see many birds living in the region for example you could see Bald Eagles (Haliaeetus leucocephalus), Piping plover (Atlantic coast) (Charadrius melodus), Red-cockaded woodpecker (Picoides borealis), Red knot (Calidris canutus rufa), Roseate tern: North American Subspecies (Sterna dougallii dougallii), and shorebirds.\n\nThe aquatic life in the Atlantic Northeast is quite extensive but the more common animals that are found in the area tend to be American eel (Anguilla rostrata), Appalachian Monkeyface (Pearlymussel) (Quadrula sparsa), Atlantic salmon (Salmo salar), Diamond darter (Crystallaria cincotta), Dwarf wedgemussel (Alasmidonta heterodon), Atlantic horseshoe crab (Limulus polyphemus), Kenk's amphipod (Stygobromus kenki), Lee County cave isopod (Lirceus usdagalun), Madison cave isopod (Antrolana lira), Maryland darter (Etheostoma Sellare), Northern red-bellied cooter (Pseudemys rubriventris), Purple bean (Villosa perpurpurea), Roanoke logperch (Percina rex).\n\nThe plant life in the Atlantic Northeast is quit unique due to the different climate in that area, but some of the common plant life you will see in the area can be Furbish lousewort (Pedicularis furbishiae), Jesup's milk-vetch (Astragalus robbinsii var. jesupii), Northeastern bulrush (Scirpus ancistrochaetus), Peter's mountain mallow (Iliamna corei), Sensitive joint-vetch (Aeschynomene virginica), Shale barren rock-cress (Iliamna corei), Swamp pink (Helonias bullata), Virginia round-leaf birch (Betula uber), Virginia sneezeweed (Helenium virginicum), Virginia spiraea (Spiraea virginiana).\n\n"}
{"id": "50059900", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50059900", "title": "Bocas de Ceniza", "text": "Bocas de Ceniza\n\nBocas de Ceniza (Spanish for: \"Ash Mouths\") is the mouth of the Magdalena River in the Caribbean Sea. It owes its name to the dusky color ocean waters take to receive the river. At present, the river flows into the sea through an artificial canal built in the 1930s.\n\nBocas de Ceniza was discovered by Rodrigo de Bastidas on 1 April 1501. In 1824 the river navigation steamships began, raising local interest in the use of Bocas de Ceniza. The railway construction between Barranquilla and Puerto Colombia in 1872 and the transfer of Aduana Nacional to Barranquilla increased the desire to enable the sector of Bocas de Ceniza for international maritime trade.\n"}
{"id": "1048104", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1048104", "title": "Bosman", "text": "Bosman\n\nBosman is a Dutch and Afrikaans toponymic surname, originally meaning \"man who lives or works in the forest\". People with this surname include:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57801298", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57801298", "title": "Carroll Street Bridge", "text": "Carroll Street Bridge\n\nThe Carroll Street Bridge is a retractable bridge in New York City, crossing the Gowanus Canal in Brooklyn. It carries a single wide wooden-decked lane for one-way eastbound vehicular traffic and two walkways. It was completed in 1889. It is the least-used of the 794 bridges and tunnels operated by the New York City Department of Transportation, with an average of about one thousand crossings each weekday.\n\nThe Carroll Street Bridge is one of four remaining retractable bridges in the United States. The only other one in New York City is the Borden Avenue Bridge. It was designated a New York City landmark in 1987.\n"}
{"id": "51630163", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51630163", "title": "Center for Geospatial Research", "text": "Center for Geospatial Research\n\nThe Center for Geospatial Research at the University of Georgia focuses on Remote Sensing and Climate Science. The center is a regional NASA DEVELOP node and was recognized by NASA in 1998 for its outstanding achievements relating to applied climate and environmental sciences, being named a NASA Center of Excellence.\n\nThe University of Georgia's Center for Geospatial Research, CGR, was founded in 1985 as the Laboratory for Remote Sensing and Mapping Science. In 1989 the lab was renamed the Center for Remote Sensing and Mapping Science. This Center was founded by Dr. Roy Welch, who served as director from its founding in 1985 until 2003. The Center is now directed by Dr. Marguerite Madden and in 2012 the center was renamed Center for Geospatial Research to better reflect its internal goals. In 2016 the center helped found the UGA Small Satellite Research Laboratory.\n\nIn 2016 research from the Center was used to identify the coastal regions of the United States that were most at risk from sea-level rise due to climate change. This study was one of the first studies to have accounted for ongoing population growth when assessing the potential magnitude of future impacts. Minimally 4.2 million people at risk of inundation were projected to be at risk from sea-level rise in the continental United States.\n\nResearchers at the Center for Geospatial Research have helped students at the UGA Small Satellite Research Laboratory receive grants to build 2 satellites. These satellites will be the first satellites built, designed, and operated by the University of Georgia.\n\nThe Center for Geospatial Research is a regional node for the NASA DEVELOP national program and contributes significantly to climate change research. The center was published in the International Union for Conservation of Natures World Conservation Congress Publication. The study focused on ecological forecasting, reforestation and conservation efforts, and the Colombian primate Cotton-top tamarin.\n\nThe Center's DEVELOP program helps identify key issues regarding Atlanta and its suburbs. Using data from the Landsat 8 and Terra satellites the center is able to model water flow in the region and help the area build better infrastructure as it grows. Water monitoring and forecasting is\n\nThe Center is also aiding the undergraduates of the Small Satellite Research Laboratory with technical knowledge. Faculty members, such as Dr. David Cotten, have given presentations on the possibilities of structure from motion in low Earth orbit and how the Small Satellite Research Laboratory could build the first satellite to perform this technology in orbit.\n"}
{"id": "5391", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5391", "title": "City", "text": "City\n\nA city is a large human settlement. Cities generally have extensive systems for housing, transportation, sanitation, utilities, land use, and communication. Their density facilitates interaction between people, government organizations and businesses, sometimes benefiting different parties in the process.\n\nHistorically, city-dwellers have been a small proportion of humanity overall, but following two centuries of unprecedented and rapid urbanization, roughly half of the world population now lives in cities, which has had profound consequences for global sustainability. Present-day cities usually form the core of larger metropolitan areas and urban areas—creating numerous commuters traveling towards city centers for employment, entertainment, and edification. However, in a world of intensifying globalization, all cities are in different degree also connected globally beyond these regions.\n\nThe most populated city proper is Chongqing while the most populous metropolitan areas are the Greater Tokyo Area, the Shanghai area, and Jabodetabek (Jakarta). The cities of Faiyum, Damascus, and Varanasi are among those laying claim to longest continual inhabitation.\n\nA city is distinguished from other human settlements by its relatively great size, but also by its functions and its special symbolic status, which may be conferred by a central authority. The term can also refer either to the physical streets and buildings of the city or to the collection of people who dwell there, and can be used in a general sense to mean urban rather than rural territory.\n\nA variety of definitions, invoking population, population density, number of dwellings, economic function, and infrastructure, are used in national censuses to classify populations as urban. Common population definitions for a city range between 1,500 and 50,000 people, with most U.S. states using a minimum between 1,500 and 5,000 inhabitants. However, some jurisdictions set no such minimums. In the United Kingdom, city status is awarded on local criteria. According to the \"functional definition\" a city is not distinguished by size alone, but also by the role it plays within a larger political context. Cities serve as administrative, commercial, religious, and cultural hubs for their larger surrounding areas. Examples of settlements called city which may not meet any of the traditional criteria to be named such include Broad Top City, Pennsylvania (pop 452) and City Dulas, Anglesey, a hamlet.\n\nThe presence of a literate elite is sometimes included in the definition. A typical city has professional administrators, regulations, and some form of taxation (food and other necessities or means to trade for them) to feed the government workers. (This arrangement contrasts with the more typically horizontal relationships in a tribe or village accomplishing common goals through informal agreements between neighbors, or through leadership of a chief.) The governments may be based on heredity, religion, military power, work projects such as canal building, food distribution, land ownership, agriculture, commerce, manufacturing, finance, or a combination of these. Societies that live in cities are often called civilizations.\n\nThe word \"city\" and the related \"civilization\" come, via Old French, from the Latin root \"civitas\", originally meaning citizenship or community member and eventually coming to correspond with urbs, meaning city in a more physical sense. The Roman \"civitas\" was closely linked with the Greek \"polis\"—another common root appearing in English words such as \"metropolis\".\n\nUrban geography deals both with cities in their larger context and with their internal structure.\n\nTown siting has varied through history according to natural, technological, economic, and military contexts. Access to water has long been a major factor in city placement and growth, and despite exceptions enabled by the advent of rail transport in the nineteenth century, through the present most of the world's urban population lives near the coast or on a river.\n\nUrban areas as a rule cannot produce their own food and therefore must develop some relationship with a hinterland which sustains them. Only in special cases such as mining towns which play a vital role in long-distance trade, are cities disconnected from the countryside which feeds them. Thus, centrality within a productive region influences siting, as economic forces would in theory favor the creation of market places in optimal mutually reachable locations.\n\nThe vast majority of cities have a central area containing buildings with special economic, political, and religious significance. Archaeologists refer to this area by the Greek term temenos or if fortified as a citadel. These spaces historically reflect and amplify the city's centrality and importance to its wider sphere of influence. Today cities have a city center or downtown, sometimes coincident with a central business district.\n\nCities typically have public spaces where anyone can go. These include privately owned spaces open to the public as well as forms of public land such as public domain and the commons. Western philosophy since the time of the Greek agora has considered physical public space as the substrate of the symbolic public sphere. Public art adorns (or disfigures) public spaces. Parks and other natural sites within cities provide residents with relief from the hardness and regularity of typical built environments.\n\nUrban structure generally follows one or more basic patterns: geomorphic, radial, concentric, rectilinear, and curvilinear. Physical environment generally constrains the form in which a city is built. If located on a mountainside, urban structure may rely on terraces and winding roads. It may be adapted to its means of subsistence (e.g. agriculture or fishing). And it may be set up for optimal defense given the surrounding landscape. Beyond these \"geomorphic\" features, cities can develop internal patterns, due to natural growth or to city planning.\n\nIn a radial structure, main roads converge on a central point. This form could evolve from successive growth over a long time, with concentric traces of town walls and citadels marking older city boundaries. In more recent history, such forms were supplemented by ring roads moving traffic around the outskirts of a town. Dutch cities such as Amsterdam and Haarlem are structured as a central square surrounded by concentric canals marking every expansion. In cities such as and also Moscow, this pattern is still clearly visible.\n\nA system of rectilinear city streets and land plots, known as the grid plan, has been used for millennia in Asia, Europe, and the Americas. The Indus Valley Civilisation built Mohenjo-Daro, Harappa and other cities on a grid pattern, using ancient principles described by Kautilya, and aligned with the compass points. The ancient Greek city of Priene exemplifies a grid plan with specialized districts used across the Hellenistic Mediterranean.\n\nUrban-type settlement extends far beyond the traditional boundaries of the city proper in a form of development sometimes described critically as urban sprawl. Decentralization and dispersal of city functions (commercial, industrial, residential, cultural, political) has transformed the very meaning of the term and has challenged geographers seeking to classify territories according to an urban-rural binary.\n\nMetropolitan areas include suburbs and exurbs organized around the needs of commuters, and sometimes edge cities characterized by a degree of economic and political independence. (In the US these are grouped into metropolitan statistical areas for purposes of demography and marketing.) Some cities are now part of a continuous urban landscape called urban agglomeration, conurbation, or megalopolis (exemplified by the BosWash corridor of the Northeastern United States.)\n\nCities, characterized by population density, symbolic function, and urban planning, have existed for thousands of years. In the conventional view, civilization and the city both followed from the development of agriculture, which enabled production of surplus food, and thus a social division of labour (with concomitant social stratification) and trade. Early cities often featured granaries, sometimes within a temple. A minority viewpoint considers that cities may have arisen without agriculture, due to alternative means of subsistence (fishing), to use as communal seasonal shelters, to their value as bases for defensive and offensive military organization, or to their inherent economic function. Cities played a crucial role in the establishment of political power over an area, and ancient leaders such as Alexander the Great founded and created them with zeal.\n\nJericho and Çatalhöyük, dated to the eighth millennium BC, are among the earliest proto-cities known to archaeologists.\n\nIn the fourth and third millennium BC, complex civilizations flourished in the river valleys of Mesopotamia, India, China, and Egypt. Excavations in these areas have found the ruins of cities geared variously towards trade, politics, or religion. Some had large, dense populations, but others carried out urban activities in the realms of politics or religion without having large associated populations. Among the early Old World cities, Mohenjo-daro of the Indus Valley Civilization in present-day Pakistan, existing from about 2600 BC, was one of the largest, with a population of 50,000 or more and a sophisticated sanitation system. China's planned cities were constructed according to sacred principles to act as celestial microcosms. The Ancient Egyptian cities known physically by archaeologists are not extensive. They include (known by their Arab names) El Lahun, a workers' town associated with the pyramid of Senusret II, and the religious city Amarna built by Akhenaten and abandoned. These sites appear planned in a highly regimented and stratified fashion, with a minimalistic grid of rooms for the workers and increasingly more elaborate housing available for higher classes.\n\nIn Mesopotamia, the civilization of Sumer, followed by Assyria and Babylon, gave rise to numerous cities, governed by kings and fostering multiple languages written in cuneiform. The Phoenician trading empire, flourishing around the turn of the first millennium BC, encompassed numerous cities extending from Tyre, Cydon, and Byblos to Carthage and Cádiz.\n\nIn the following centuries, independent city-states of Greece developed the \"polis\", an association of male landowning citizens who collectively constituted the city. The agora, meaning \"gathering place\" or \"assembly\", was the center of athletic, artistic, spiritual and political life of the polis. Rome's rise to power brought its population to one million. Under the authority of its empire, Rome transformed and founded many cities (\"coloniae\"), and with them brought its principles of urban architecture, design, and society.\n\nIn the ancient Americas, early urban traditions developed in the Andes and Mesoamerica. In the Andes, the first urban centers developed in the Norte Chico civilization, Chavin and Moche cultures, followed by major cities in the Huari, Chimu and Inca cultures. The Norte Chico civilization included as many as 30 major population centers in what is now the Norte Chico region of north-central coastal Peru. It is the oldest known civilization in the Americas, flourishing between the 30th century BC and the 18th century BC. Mesoamerica saw the rise of early urbanism in several cultural regions, beginning with the Olmec and spreading to the Preclassic Maya, the Zapotec of Oaxaca, and Teotihuacan in central Mexico. Later cultures such as the Aztec drew on these earlier urban traditions.\n\nJenné-Jeno, located in present-day Mali and dating to the third century BC, lacked monumental architecture and a distinctive elite social class—but nevertheless had specialized production and relations with a hinterland. Pre-Arabic trade contacts probably existed between Jenné-Jeno and North Africa. Other early urban centers in sub-Saharan Africa, dated to around 500 AD, include Awdaghust, Kumbi-Saleh the ancient capital of Ghana, and Maranda a center located on a trade route between Egypt and Gao.\n\nIn the first millennium AD, Angkor in the Khmer Empire grew into one of the most extensive cities in the world and may have supported up to one million people.\n\nIn the remnants of the Roman Empire, cities of late antiquity gained independence but soon lost population and importance. The locus of power in the West shifted to Constantinople and to the ascendant Islamic civilization with its major cities Baghdad, Cairo, and Córdoba. From the 9th through the end of the 12th century, Constantinople, capital of the Byzantine Empire, was the largest and wealthiest city in Europe, with a population approaching 1 million. The Ottoman Empire gradually gained control over many cities in the Mediterranean area, including Constantinople in 1453.\n\nIn the Holy Roman Empire, beginning in the 12th. century, free imperial cities such as Nuremberg, Strasbourg, Frankfurt, Zurich, Nijmegen became a privileged elite among towns having won self-governance from their local lay or secular lord or having been granted self-governanace by the emperor and being placed under his immediate protection. By 1480, these cities, as far as still part of the empire, became part of the Imperial Estates governing the empire with the emperor through the Imperial Diet.\n\nBy the thirteenth and fourteenth centuries, some cities become powerful states, taking surrounding areas under their control or establishing extensive maritime empires. In Italy medieval communes developed into city-states including the Republic of Venice and the Republic of Genoa. In Northern Europe, cities including Lübeck and Bruges formed the Hanseatic League for collective defense and commerce. Their power was later challenged and eclipsed by the Dutch commercial cities of Ghent, Ypres, and Amsterdam. Similar phenomena existed elsewhere, as in the case of Sakai, which enjoyed a considerable autonomy in late medieval Japan.\n\nIn the West, nation-states became the dominant unit of political organization following the Peace of Westphalia in the seventeenth century. Western Europe's larger capitals (London and Paris) benefited from the growth of commerce following the emergence of an Atlantic trade. However, most towns remained small.\n\nDuring the Spanish colonization of the Americas the old Roman city concept was extensively used. Cities were founded in the middle of the newly conquered territories, and were bound to several laws regarding administration, finances and urbanism.\n\nThe growth of modern industry from the late 18th century onward led to massive urbanization and the rise of new great cities, first in Europe and then in other regions, as new opportunities brought huge numbers of migrants from rural communities into urban areas. England led the way as London became the capital of a world empire and cities across the country grew in locations strategic for manufacturing. In the United States from 1860 to 1910, the introduction of railroads reduced transportation costs, and large manufacturing centers began to emerge, fueling migration from rural to city areas.\n\nIndustrialized cities became deadly places to live, due to health problems resulting from overcrowding, occupational hazards of industry, contaminated water and air, poor sanitation, and communicable diseases such as typhoid and cholera. Factories and slums emerged as regular features of the urban landscape.\n\nIn the second half of the twentieth century, deindustrialization (or \"economic restructuring\") in the West led to poverty, homelessness, and urban decay in formerly prosperous cities. America's \"Steel Belt\" became a \"Rust Belt\" and cities such as Detroit, Michigan, and Gary, Indiana began to shrink, contrary to the global trend of massive urban expansion. Such cities have shifted with varying success into the service economy and public-private partnerships, with concomitant gentrification, uneven revitalization efforts, and selective cultural development. Under the Great Leap Forward and subsequent five-year plans continuing today, the People's Republic of China has undergone concomitant urbanization and industrialization and to become the world's leading manufacturer.\n\nAmidst these economic changes, high technology and instantaneous telecommunication enable select cities to become centers of the knowledge economy. A new smart city paradigm, supported by institutions such as the RAND Corporation and IBM, is bringing computerized surveillance, data analysis, and governance to bear on cities and city-dwellers. Some companies are building brand new masterplanned cities from scratch on greenfield sites.\n\nUrbanization is the process of migration from rural into urban areas, driven by various political, economic, and cultural factors. Until the 18th century, an equilibrium existed between the rural agricultural population and towns featuring markets and small-scale manufacturing. With the agricultural and industrial revolutions urban population began its unprecedented growth, both through migration and through demographic expansion. In England the proportion of the population living in cities jumped from 17% in 1801 to 72% in 1891. In 1900, 15% of the world population lived in cities. The cultural appeal of cities also plays a role in attracting residents.\n\nUrbanization rapidly spread across the Europe and the Americas and since the 1950s has taken hold in Asia and Africa as well. The Population Division of the United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs, reported in 2014 that for the first time more than half of the world population lives in cities. Latin America is the most urban continent, with four fifths of its population living in cities, including one fifth of the population said to live in shantytowns (favelas, poblaciones callampas, etc.). Batam, Indonesia, Mogadishu, Somalia, Xiamen, China and Niamey, Niger, are considered among the world's fastest-growing cities, with annual growth rates of 5–8%. In general, the more developed countries of the \"Global North\" remain more urbanized than the less developed countries of the \"Global South\"—but the difference continues to shrink because urbanization is happening faster in the latter group. Asia is home to by far the greatest absolute number of city-dwellers: over two billion and counting. The UN predicts an additional 2.5 billion citydwellers (and 300 million fewer countrydwellers) worldwide by 2050, with 90% of urban population expansion occurring in Asia and Africa.\n\nMegacities, cities with population in the multi-millions, have proliferated into the dozens, arising especially in Asia, Africa, and Latin America. Economic globalization fuels the growth of these cities, as new torrents of foreign capital arrange for rapid industrialization, as well as relocation of major businesses from Europe and North America, attracting immigrants from near and far. A deep gulf divides rich and poor in these cities, with usually contain a super-wealthy elite living in gated communities and large masses of people living in substandard housing with inadequate infrastructure and otherwise poor conditions.\n\nCities around the world have expanded physically as they grow in population, with increases in their surface extent, with the creation of high-rise buildings for residential and commercial use, and with development underground.\n\nUrbanization can create rapid demand for water resources management, as formerly good sources of freshwater become overused and polluted, and the volume of sewage begins to exceed manageable levels.\n\nLocal government of cities takes different forms including prominently the municipality (especially in England, in the United States, in India, and in other British colonies; legally, the municipal corporation; \"municipio\" in Spain and in Portugal, and, along with \"municipalidad\", in most former parts of the Spanish and Portuguese empires) and the \"commune\" (in France and in Chile; or \"comune\" in Italy).\n\nThe chief official of the city has the title of mayor. Whatever their true degree of political authority, the mayor typically acts as the figurehead or personification of their city.\n\nCity governments have authority to make laws governing activity within cities, while its jurisdiction is generally considered subordinate (in ascending order) to state/provincial, national, and perhaps international law. This hierarchy of law is not enforced rigidly in practice—for example in conflicts between municipal regulations and national principles such as constitutional rights and property rights. Legal conflicts and issues arise more frequently in cities than elsewhere due to the bare fact of their greater density. Modern city governments thoroughly regulate everyday life in many dimensions, including public and personal health, transport, burial, resource use and extraction, recreation, and the nature and use of buildings. Technologies, techniques, and laws governing these areas—developed in cities—have become ubiquitous in many areas.\nMunicipal officials may be appointed from a higher level of government or elected locally.\n\nCities typically provide municipal services such as education, through school systems; policing, through police departments; and firefighting, through fire departments; as well as the city's basic infrastructure. These are provided more or less routinely, in a more or less equal fashion. Responsibility for administration usually falls on the city government, though some services may be operated by a higher level of government, while others may be privately run. Armies may assume responsibility for policing cities in states of domestic turmoil such as America's King assassination riots of 1968.\n\nThe traditional basis for municipal finance is local property tax levied on real estate within the city. Local government can also collect revenue for services, or by leasing land that it owns. However, financing municipal services, as well as urban renewal and other development projects, is a perennial problem, which cities address through appeals to higher governments, arrangements with the private sector, and techniques such as privatization (selling services into the private sector), corporatization (formation of quasi-private municipally-owned corporations), and financialization (packaging city assets into tradable financial instruments and derivatives). This situation has become acute in deindustrialized cities and in cases where businesses and wealthier citizens have moved outside of city limits and therefore beyond the reach of taxation. Cities in search of ready cash increasingly resort to the municipal bond, essentially a loan with interest and a repayment date. City governments have also begun to use tax increment financing, in which a development project is financed by loans based on future tax revenues which it is expected to yield. Under these circumstances, creditors and consequently city governments place a high importance on city credit ratings.\n\nGovernance includes government but refers to a wider domain of social control functions implemented by many actors including nongovernmental organizations. The impact of globalization and the role of multinational corporations in local governments worldwide, has led to a shift in perspective on urban governance, away from the \"urban regime theory\" in which a coalition of local interests functionally govern, toward a theory of outside economic control, widely associated in academics with the philosophy of neoliberalism. In the neoliberal model of governance, public utilities are privatized, industry is deregulated, and corporations gain the status of governing actors—as indicated by the power they wield in public-private partnerships and over business improvement districts, and in the expectation of self-regulation through corporate social responsibility. The biggest investors and real estate developers act as the city's de facto urban planners.\n\nThe related concept of good governance places more emphasis on the state, with the purpose of assessing urban governments for their suitability for development assistance. The concepts of governance and good governance are especially invoked in the emergent megacities, where international organizations consider existing governments inadequate for their large populations.\n\nUrban planning, the application of forethought to city design, involves optimizing land use, transportation, utilities, and other basic systems, in order to achieve certain objectives. Urban planners and scholars have proposed overlapping theories as ideals for how plans should be formed. Planning tools, beyond the original design of the city itself, include public capital investment in infrastructure and land-use controls such as zoning. The continuous process of comprehensive planning involves identifying general objectives as well as collecting data to evaluate progress and inform future decisions.\n\nGovernment, as the ultimate wielder of force is legally the final authority on planning but in practice the process involves both public and private elements. The legal principle of eminent domain is used by government to divest citizens of their property in cases where its use is required for a project. Planning often involves tradeoffs—decisions in which some stand to gain and some to lose—and thus is closely connected to the prevailing political situation.\n\nThe history of urban planning dates to some of the earliest known cities, especially in the Indus Valley and Mesoamerican civilizations, which built their cities on grids and apparently zoned different areas for different purposes. The effects of planning, ubiquitous in today's world, can be seen most clearly in the layout of planned communities, fully designed prior to construction, often with consideration for interlocking physical, economic, and cultural systems.\n\nUrban society is typically stratified. Spatially, cities are formally or informally segregated along ethnic, economic and racial lines. People living relatively close together may live, work, and play, in separate areas, and associate with different people, forming ethnic or lifestyle enclaves or, in areas of concentrated poverty, ghettoes. While in the US and elsewhere poverty became associated with the inner city, in France it has become associated with the \"banlieues\", areas of urban development which surround the city proper. Meanwhile, across Europe and North America, the racially white majority is empirically the most segregated group. Suburbs in the west, and, increasingly, gated communities and other forms of \"privatopia\" around the world, allow local elites to self-segregate into secure and exclusive neighborhoods.\n\nLandless urban workers, contrasted with peasants and known as the proletariat, form a growing stratum of society in the age of urbanization. In Marxist doctrine, the proletariat will inevitably revolt against the bourgeoisie as their ranks swell with disenfranchised and disaffected people lacking all stake in the status quo. The global urban proletariat of today, however, generally lacks the status as factory workers which in the nineteenth century provided access to the means of production.\n\nHistorically, cities rely on rural areas for intensive farming to yield surplus crops, in exchange for which they provide money, political administration, manufactured goods, and culture. Urban economics tends to analyze larger agglomerations, stretching beyond city limits, in order to reach a more complete understanding of the local labor market.\n\nAs hubs of trade cities have long been home to retail commerce and consumption through the interface of shopping. In the 20th century, department stores using new techniques of advertising, public relations, decoration, and design, transformed urban shopping areas into fantasy worlds encouraging self-expression and escape through consumerism.\n\nIn general, the density of cities expedites commerce and facilitates knowledge spillovers, helping people and firms exchange information and generate new ideas. A thicker labor market allows for better skill matching between firms and individuals. Population density enables also sharing of common infrastructure and production facilities, however in very dense cities, increased crowding and waiting times may lead to some negative effects.\n\nAlthough manufacturing fueled the growth of cities, many now rely on a tertiary or service economy. The services in question range from tourism, hospitality, entertainment, housekeeping and prostitution to grey-collar work in law, finance, and administration.\n\nCities are typically hubs for education and the arts, supporting universities, museums, temples, and other cultural institutions. They feature impressive displays of architecture ranging from small to enormous and ornate to brutal; skyscrapers, providing thousands of offices or homes within a small footprint, and visible from miles away, have become iconic urban features. Cultural elites tend to live in cities, bound together by shared cultural capital, and themselves playing some role in governance. By virtue of their status as centers of culture and literacy, cities can be described as the locus of civilization, world history, and social change.\n\nDensity makes for effective mass communication and transmission of news, through heralds, printed proclamations, newspapers, and digital media. These communication networks, though still using cities as hubs, penetrate extensively into all populated areas. In the age of rapid communication and transportation, commentators have described urban culture as nearly ubiquitous or as no longer meaningful.\n\nToday, a city's promotion of its cultural activities dovetails with place branding and city marketing, public diplomacy techniques used to inform development strategy; to attract businesses, investors, residents, and tourists; and to create a shared identity and sense of place within the metropolitan area. Physical inscriptions, plaques, and monuments on display physically transmit a historical context for urban places. Some cities, such as Jerusalem, Mecca, and Rome have indelible religious status and for hundreds of years have attracted pilgrims. Patriotic tourists visit Agra to see the Taj Mahal, or New York City to visit the World Trade Center. Elvis lovers visit Memphis to pay their respects at Graceland. Place brands (which include place satisfaction and place loyalty) have great economic value (comparable to the value of commodity brands) because of their influence on the decision-making process of people thinking about doing business in—\"purchasing\" (the brand of)—a city.\n\nBread and circuses among other forms of cultural appeal, attract and entertain the masses. Sports also play a major role in city branding and local identity formation. Cities go to considerable lengths in competing to host the Olympic Games, which bring global attention and tourism.\n\nCities play a crucial strategic role in warfare due to their economic, demographic, symbolic, and political centrality. For the same reasons, they are targets in asymmetric warfare. Many cities throughout history were founded under military auspices, a great many have incorporated fortifications, and military principles continue to influence urban design. Indeed, war may have served as the social rationale and economic basis for the very earliest cities.\n\nPowers engaged in geopolitical conflict have established fortified settlements as part of military strategies, as in the case of garrison towns, America's Strategic Hamlet Program during the Vietnam War, and Israeli settlements in Palestine. While occupying the Philippines, the US Army ordered local people concentrated into cities and towns, in order to isolate committed insurgents and battle freely against them in the countryside.\n\nDuring World War II, national governments on occasion declared certain cities open, effectively surrendering them to an advancing enemy in order to avoid damage and bloodshed. Urban warfare proved decisive, however, in the Battle of Stalingrad, where Soviet forces repulsed German occupiers, with extreme casualties and destruction. In an era of low-intensity conflict and rapid urbanization, cities have become sites of long-term conflict waged both by foreign occupiers and by local governments against insurgency. Such warfare, known as counterinsurgency, involves techniques of surveillance and psychological warfare as well as close combat, functionally extends modern urban crime prevention, which already uses concepts such as defensible space.\n\nAlthough capture is the more common objective, warfare has in some cases spelt complete destruction for a city. Mesopotamian tablets and ruins attest to such destruction, as does the Latin motto \"Carthago delenda est\". Since the atomic bombing of Hiroshima and Nagasaki and throughout the Cold War, nuclear strategists continued to contemplate the use of \"countervalue\" targeting: crippling an enemy by annihilating its valuable cities, rather than aiming primarily at its military forces.\n\nUrban infrastructure involves various physical networks and spaces necessary for transportation, water use, energy, recreation, and public functions. Infrastructure carries a high initial cost in fixed capital (pipes, wires, plants, vehicles, etc.) but lower marginal costs and thus positive economies of scale. Because of the higher barriers to entry, these networks have been classified as natural monopolies, meaning that economic logic favors control of each network by a single organization, public or private.\n\nInfrastructure in general (if not every infrastructure project) plays a vital role in a city's capacity for economic activity and expansion, underpinning the very survival of the city's inhabitants, as well as technological, commercial, industrial, and social activities. Structurally, many infrastructure systems take the form of networks with redundant links and multiple pathways, so that the system as a whole continue to operate even if parts of it fail. The particulars of a city's infrastructure systems have historical path dependence because new development must build from what exists already.\n\nMegaprojects such as the construction of airports, power plants, and railways require large upfront investments and thus tend to require funding from national government or the private sector. Privatization may also extend to all levels of infrastructure construction and maintenance.\n\nUrban infrastructure ideally serves all residents equally but in practice may prove uneven—with, in some cities, clear first-class and second-class alternatives.\n\nPublic utilities (literally, useful things with general availability) include basic and essential infrastructure networks, chiefly concerned with the supply of water, electricity, and telecommunications capability to the populace.\n\nSanitation, necessary for good health in crowded conditions, requires water supply and waste management as well as individual hygiene. Urban water systems include principally a water supply network and a network for wastewater including sewage and stormwater. Historically, either local governments or private companies have administered urban water supply, with a tendency toward government water supply in the 20th century and a tendency toward private operation at the turn of the twenty-first. The market for private water services is dominated by two French companies, Veolia Water (formerly Vivendi) and Engie (formerly Suez), said to hold 70% of all water contracts worldwide.\n\nModern urban life relies heavily on the energy transmitted through electricity for the operation of electric machines (from household appliances to industrial machines to now-ubiquitous electronic systems used in communications, business, and government) and for traffic lights, streetlights and indoor lighting. Cities rely to a lesser extent on hydrocarbon fuels such as gasoline and natural gas for transportation, heating, and cooking. Telecommunications infrastructure such as telephone lines and coaxial cables also traverse cities, forming dense networks for mass and point-to-point communications.\n\nBecause cities rely on specialization and an economic system based on wage labour, their inhabitants must have the ability to regularly travel between home, work, commerce, and entertainment. Citydwellers travel foot or by wheel on roads and walkways, or use special rapid transit systems based on underground, overground, and elevated rail. Cities also rely on long-distance transportation (truck, rail, and airplane) for economic connections with other cities and rural areas.\n\nHistorically, city streets were the domain of horses and their riders and pedestrians, who only sometimes had sidewalks and special walking areas reserved for them. In the west, bicycles or (velocipedes), efficient human-powered machines for short- and medium-distance travel, enjoyed a period of popularity at the beginning of the twentieth century before the rise of automobiles. Soon after, they gained a more lasting foothold in Asian and African cities under European influence. In western cities, industrializing, expanding, and electrifying at this time, public transit systems and especially streetcars enabled urban expansion as new residential neighborhoods sprung up along transit lines and workers rode to and from work downtown.\n\nSince the mid-twentieth century, cities have relied heavily on motor vehicle transportation, with major implications for their layout, environment, and aesthetics. (This transformation occurred most dramatically in the US—where corporate and governmental policies favored automobile transport systems—and to a lesser extent in Europe.) The rise of personal cars accompanied the expansion of urban economic areas into much larger metropolises, subsequently creating ubiquitous traffic issues with accompanying construction of new highways, wider streets, and alternative walkways for pedestrians. However, severe traffic jams still occur regularly in cities around the world, as private car ownership and urbanization continue to increase, overwhelming existing urban street networks.\n\nThe urban bus system, the world's most common form of public transport, uses a network of scheduled routes to move people through the city, alongside cars, on the roads. Economic function itself also became more decentralized as concentration became impractical and employers relocated to more car-friendly locations (including edge cities). Some cities have introduced bus rapid transit systems which include exclusive bus lanes and other methods for prioritizing bus traffic over private cars. Many big American cities still operate conventional public transit by rail, as exemplified by the ever-popular New York City Subway system. Rapid transit is widely used in Europe and has increased in Latin America and Asia.\n\nWalking and cycling (\"non-motorized transport\") enjoy increasing favor (more pedestrian zones and bike lanes) in American and Asian urban transportation planning, under the influence of such trends as the Healthy Cities movement, the drive for sustainable development, and the idea of a carfree city. Techniques such as road space rationing and road use charges have been introduced to limit urban car traffic.\n\nHousing of residents presents one of the major challenges every city must face. Adequate housing entails not only physical shelters but also the physical systems necessary to sustain life and economic activity. Home ownership represents status and a modicum of economic security, compared to renting which may consume much of the income of low-wage urban workers. Homelessness, or lack of housing, is a challenged currently faced by millions of people in countries rich and poor.\n\nUrban ecosystems, influenced as they are by the density of human buildings and activities differ considerably from those of their rural surroundings. Anthropogenic buildings and waste, as well as cultivation in gardens, create physical and chemical environments which have no equivalents in wilderness, in some cases enabling exceptional biodiversity. They provide homes not only for immigrant humans but also for immigrant plants, bringing about interactions between species which never previously encountered each other. They introduce frequent disturbances (construction, walking) to plant and animal habitats, creating opportunities for recolonization and thus favoring young ecosystems with r-selected species dominant. On the whole, urban ecosystems are less complex and productive than others, due to the diminished absolute amount of biological interactions.\n\nTypical urban fauna include insects (especially ants), rodents (mice, rats), and birds, as well as cats and dogs (domesticated and feral). Large predators are scarce.\n\nCities generate considerable ecological footprints, locally and at longer distances, due to concentrated populations and technological activities. From one perspective, cities are not ecologically sustainable due to their resource needs. From another, proper management may be able to ameliorate a city's ill effects. Air pollution arises from various forms of combustion, including fireplaces, wood or coal-burning stoves, other heating systems, and internal combustion engines. Industrialized cities, and today third-world megacities, are notorious for veils of smog (industrial haze) which envelop them, posing a chronic threat to the health of their millions of inhabitants. Urban soil contains higher concentrations of heavy metals (especially lead, copper, and nickel) and has lower pH than soil in comparable wilderness.\n\nModern cities are known for creating their own microclimates, due to concrete, asphalt, and other artificial surfaces, which heat up in sunlight and channel rainwater into underground ducts. The temperature in New York City exceeds nearby rural temperatures by an average of 2–3 °C and at times 5–10 °C differences have been recorded. This effect varies nonlinearly with population changes (independently of the city's physical size). Aerial particulates increase rainfall by 5–10%. Thus, urban areas experience unique climates, with earlier flowering and later leaf dropping than in nearby country.\n\nPoor and working-class people face disproportionate exposure to environmental risks (known as environmental racism when intersecting also with racial segregation). For example, within the urban microclimate, less-vegetated poor neighborhoods bear more of the heat (but have fewer means of coping with it).\n\nAs the world becomes more closely linked through economics, politics, technology, and culture (a process called globalization), cities have come to play a leading role in transnational affairs, exceeding the limitations of international relations conducted by national governments. This phenomenon, resurgent today, can be traced back to the Silk Road, Phoenicia, and the Greek city-states, through the Hanseatic League and other alliances of cities. Today the information economy based on high-speed internet infrastructure enables instantaneous telecommunication around the world, effectively eliminating the distance between cities for the purposes of stock markets and other high-level elements of the world economy, as well as personal communications and mass media.\n\nA global city, also known as a world city, is a prominent centre of trade, banking, finance, innovation, and markets. Saskia Sassen used the term \"global city\" in her 1991 work, \"The Global City: New York, London, Tokyo\" to refer to a city's power, status, and cosmopolitanism, rather than to its size. Following this view of cities, it is possible to rank the world's cities hierarchically. Global cities form the capstone of the global hierarchy, exerting command and control through their economic and political influence. Global cities may have reached their status due to early transition to post-industrialism or through inertia which has enabled them to maintain their dominance from the industrial era. This type of ranking exemplifies an emerging discourse in which cities, considered variations on the same ideal type, \"must\" compete with each other globally to achieve prosperity.\n\nCritics of the notion point to the different realms of power and interchange. The term \"global city\" is heavily influenced by economic factors and, thus, may not account for places that are otherwise significant. Paul James, for example argues that the term is \"reductive and skewed\" in its focus on financial systems.\n\nMultinational corporations and banks make their headquarters in global cities and conduct much of their business within this context. American firms dominate the international markets for law and engineering and maintain branches in the biggest foreign global cities.\n\nGlobal cities feature concentrations of extremely wealthy and extremely poor people. Their economies are lubricated by their capacity (limited by the national government's immigration policy, which functionally defines the supply side of the labor market) to recruit low- and high-skilled immigrant workers from poorer areas. More and more cities today draw on this globally available labor force.\n\nCities increasingly participate in world political activities independently of their enclosing nation-states. Early examples of this phenomenon are the sister city relationship and the promotion of multi-level governance within the European Union as a technique for European integration. Cities including Hamburg, Prague, Amsterdam, The Hague, and City of London maintain their own embassies to the European Union at Brussels.\n\nNew urban dwellers may increasingly not simply as immigrants but as transmigrants, keeping one foot each (through telecommunications if not travel) in their old and their new homes.\n\nCities participate in global governance by various means including membership in global networks which transmit norms and regulations. At the general, global level, United Cities and Local Governments (UCLG) is a significant umbrella organization for cities; regionally and nationally, Eurocities, Asian Network of Major Cities 21, the Federation of Canadian Municipalities the National League of Cities, and the United States Conference of Mayors play similar roles. UCLG took responsibility for creating Agenda 21 for culture, a program for cultural policies promoting sustainable development, and has organized various conferences and reports for its furtherance.\n\nNetworks have become especially prevalent in the arena of environmentalism and specifically climate change following the adoption of Agenda 21. Environmental city networks include the C40 Cities Climate Leadership Group, World Association of Major Metropolises (\"Metropolis\"), the United Nations Global Compact Cities Programme, the Carbon Neutral Cities Alliance (CNCA), the Covenant of Mayors and the Compact of Mayors, ICLEI – Local Governments for Sustainability, and the Transition Towns network.\n\nCities with world political status as meeting places for advocacy groups, non-governmental organizations, lobbyists, educational institutions, intelligence agencies, military contractors, information technology firms, and other groups with a stake in world policymaking. They are consequently also sites for symbolic protest.\n\nThe United Nations System has been involved in a series of events and declarations dealing with the development of cities during this period of rapid urbanization.\n\nUN-Habitat coordinates the UN urban agenda, working with the UN Environmental Programme, the UN Development Programme, the Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights, the World Health Organization, and the World Bank.\n\nThe World Bank, a United Nations specialized agency, has been a primary force in promoting the Habitat conferences, and since the first Habitat conference has used their declarations as a framework for issuing loans for urban infrastructure. The bank's structural adjustment programs contributed to urbanization in the Third World by creating incentives to move to cities. The World Bank and UN-Habitat in 1999 jointly established the Cities Alliance (based at the World Bank headquarters in Washington, DC) to guide policymaking, knowledge sharing, and grant distribution around the issue of urban poverty. (UN-Habitat plays an advisory role in evaluating the quality of a locality's governance.) The Bank's policies have tended to focus on bolstering real estate markets through credit and technical assistance.\n\nThe United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, UNESCO has increasingly focused on cities as key sites for influencing cultural governance. It has developed various city networks including the International Coalition of Cities against Racism and the Creative Cities Network. UNESCO's capacity to select World Heritage Sites and maintain them through Public/social/private partnerships gives the organization significant influence over cultural capital, tourism, and historic preservation funding.\n\nCities figure prominently in traditional Western culture, appearing in the Bible in both evil and holy forms, symbolized by Babylon and Jerusalem. Cain and Nimrod are the first city builders in the Book of Genesis. In Sumerian mythology Gilgamesh built the walls of Uruk.\n\nCities can be perceived in terms of extremes or opposites: at once liberating and oppressive, wealthy and poor, organized and chaotic. The name anti-urbanism refers to various types of ideological opposition to cities, whether because of their culture or their political relationship with the country. Such opposition may result from identification of cities with oppression and the ruling elite. This and other political ideologies strongly influence narratives and themes in discourse about cities. In turn, cities symbolize their home societies.\n\nWriters, painters, and filmmakers have produced innumerable works of art concerning the urban experience. Classical and medieval literature includes a genre of \"descriptiones\" which treat of city features and history. Modern authors such as Charles Dickens and James Joyce are famous for evocative descriptions of their home cities. Fritz Lang conceived the idea for his influential 1927 film \"Metropolis\" while visiting Times Square and marveling at the nighttime neon lighting. Other early cinematic representations of cities in the twentieth century generally depicted them as technologically efficient spaces with smoothly functioning systems of automobile transport. By the 1960s, however, traffic congestion began to appear in such films as \"The Fast Lady\" (1962) and \"Playtime\" (1967).\n\nLiterature, film, and other forms of popular culture have supplied visions of future cities both utopian and dystopian. The prospect of expanding, communicating, and increasingly interdependent world cities has given rise to images such as Nylonkong (NY, London, Hong Kong) and visions of a single world-encompassing ecumenopolis.\n\nBibliography\nFurther reading\n\n"}
{"id": "133345", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=133345", "title": "Dead reckoning", "text": "Dead reckoning\n\nIn navigation, dead reckoning is the process of calculating one's current position by using a previously determined position, or fix, and advancing that position based upon known or estimated speeds over elapsed time and course. The corresponding term in biology, used to describe the processes by which animals update their estimates of position or heading, is path integration.\n\nDead reckoning is subject to cumulative errors. Advances in navigational aids that give accurate information on position, in particular satellite navigation using the Global Positioning System, have made simple dead reckoning by humans obsolete for most purposes. However, inertial navigation systems, which provide very accurate directional information, use dead reckoning and are very widely applied.\n\nBy analogy with their navigational use, the words \"dead reckoning\" are also used to mean the process of estimating the value of any variable quantity by using an earlier value and adding whatever changes have occurred in the meantime. Often, this usage implies that the changes are not known accurately. The earlier value and the changes may be measured or calculated quantities.\n\nThe term \"dead reckoning\" was not originally used to abbreviate \"deduced reckoning,\" nor is it a misspelling of the term \"ded reckoning.\" The use of \"ded\" or \"deduced reckoning\" appeared much later in history, no earlier than 1931; in contrast to \"dead reckoning\" appearing as early as 1613 in the Oxford English Dictionary. The original intention of \"dead\" in the term is not clear however. Whether it is used to convey \"absolute\" as in \"dead ahead,\" reckoning using other objects that are \"dead in the water,\" or using reckoning properly \"you’re dead if you don’t reckon right,\" is not known.\n\nDead reckoning can give the best available information on position, but is subject to significant errors as both speed and direction must be accurately known at all instants for position to be determined accurately. For example, if displacement is measured by the number of rotations of a wheel, any discrepancy between the actual and assumed travelled distance per rotation, due perhaps to slippage or surface irregularities, will be a source of error. As each estimate of position is relative to the previous one, errors are cumulative, or compounding, multiplicatively or exponentially, if that is the co-relationship of the quanta.\n\nThe accuracy of dead reckoning can be increased significantly by using other, more reliable methods to get a new fix part way through the journey. For example, if one was navigating on land in poor visibility, then dead reckoning could be used to get close enough to the known position of a landmark to be able to see it, before walking to the landmark itself — giving a precisely known start point — and then setting off again.\n\nLocalizing a static sensor node is not a difficult task because attaching a GPS device suffices the need of localization. But a mobile sensor node, which continuously change its geographical location with time is difficult to localize. Mostly mobile sensor nodes within some particular domain for data collection can be used, \"i.e\", sensor node attached to an animal within a grazing field or attached to a soldier on a battlefield. Within these scenarios a GPS device for each sensor node cannot be afforded. Some of the reasons for this include cost, size and battery drainage of constrained sensor nodes.\nTo overcome this problem a limited number of reference nodes (with GPS) within a field is employed. These nodes continuously broadcast their locations and other nodes in proximity receive these locations and calculate their position using some mathematical technique like trilateration. For localization, at least three known reference locations are necessary to localize. Several localization algorithms based on Sequential Monte Carlo (SMC) method have been proposed in literatures. Sometimes a node at some places receives only two known locations and hence it becomes impossible to localize. To overcome this problem, dead reckoning technique is used. With this technique a sensor node uses its previous calculated location for localization at later time intervals. For example, at time instant 1 if node A calculates its position as \"loca_1\" with the help of three known reference locations; then at time instant 2 it uses \"loca_1\" along with two other reference locations received from other two reference nodes. This not only localizes a node in less time but also localizes in positions where it is difficult to get three reference locations.\n\nIn studies of animal navigation, dead reckoning is more commonly (though not exclusively) known as path integration. Animals use it to estimate their current location based on their movements from their last known location. Animals such as ants, rodents, and geese have been shown to track their locations continuously relative to a starting point and to return to it, an important skill for foragers with a fixed home.\n\nIn marine navigation a \"dead\" reckoning plot generally does not take into account the effect of currents or wind. Aboard ship a dead reckoning plot is considered important in evaluating position information and planning the movement of the vessel.\n\nDead reckoning begins with a known position, or fix, which is then advanced, mathematically or directly on the chart, by means of recorded heading, speed, and time. Speed can be determined by many methods. Before modern instrumentation, it was determined aboard ship using a chip log. More modern methods include pit log referencing engine speed (\"e.g\". in rpm) against a table of total displacement (for ships) or referencing one's indicated airspeed fed by the pressure from a pitot tube. This measurement is converted to an equivalent airspeed based upon known atmospheric conditions and measured errors in the indicated airspeed system. A naval vessel uses a device called a pit sword (rodmeter), which uses two sensors on a metal rod to measure the electromagnetic variance caused by the ship moving through water. This change is then converted to ship's speed. Distance is determined by multiplying the speed and the time. This initial position can then be adjusted resulting in an estimated position by taking into account the current (known as set and drift in marine navigation). If there is no positional information available, a new dead reckoning plot may start from an estimated position. In this case subsequent dead reckoning positions will have taken into account estimated set and drift.\n\nDead reckoning positions are calculated at predetermined intervals, and are maintained between fixes. The duration of the interval varies. Factors including one's speed made good and the nature of heading and other course changes, and the navigator's judgment determine when dead reckoning positions are calculated.\n\nBefore the 18th-century development of the marine chronometer by John Harrison and the lunar distance method, dead reckoning was the primary method of determining longitude available to mariners such as Christopher Columbus and John Cabot on their trans-Atlantic voyages. Tools such as the traverse board were developed to enable even illiterate crew members to collect the data needed for dead reckoning. Polynesian navigation, however, uses different wayfinding techniques.\n\nOn May 21, 1927 Charles Lindbergh landed in Paris, France after a successful non-stop flight from the United States in the single-engined Spirit of St. Louis. This aircraft was equipped with very basic instruments. He used dead reckoning to find his way.\n\nDead reckoning in the air is similar to dead reckoning on the sea, but slightly more complicated. The density of the air the aircraft moves through affects its performance as well as winds, weight, and power settings.\n\nThe basic formula for DR is Distance = Speed x Time. An aircraft flying at 250 knots airspeed for 2 hours has flown 500 nautical miles through the air. The wind triangle is used to calculate the effects of wind on heading and airspeed to obtain a magnetic heading to steer and the speed over the ground (groundspeed). Printed tables, formulae, or an E6B flight computer are used to calculate the effects of air density on aircraft rate of climb, rate of fuel burn, and airspeed.\n\nA course line is drawn on the aeronautical chart along with estimated positions at fixed intervals (say every ½ hour). Visual observations of ground features are used to obtain fixes. By comparing the fix and the estimated position corrections are made to the aircraft's heading and groundspeed.\n\nDead reckoning is on the curriculum for VFR (visual flight rules - or basic level) pilots worldwide. It is taught regardless of whether the aircraft has navigation aids such as GPS, ADF and VOR and is an ICAO Requirement. Many flying training schools will prevent a student from using electronic aids until they have mastered dead reckoning.\n\nInertial navigation systems (INSes), which are nearly universal on more advanced aircraft, use dead reckoning internally. The INS provides reliable navigation capability under virtually any conditions, without the need for external navigation references, although it is still prone to slight errors.\n\nDead reckoning is today implemented in some high-end automotive navigation systems in order to overcome the limitations of GPS/GNSS technology alone. Satellite microwave signals are unavailable in parking garages and tunnels, and often severely degraded in urban canyons and near trees due to blocked lines of sight to the satellites or multipath propagation. In a dead-reckoning navigation system, the car is equipped with sensors that know the wheel circumference and record wheel rotations and steering direction. These sensors are often already present in cars for other purposes (anti-lock braking system, electronic stability control) and can be read by the navigation system from the controller-area network bus. The navigation system then uses a Kalman filter to integrate the always-available sensor data with the accurate but occasionally unavailable position information from the satellite data into a combined position fix.\n\nDead reckoning is utilized in some lower-end, non mission-critical, or tightly constrained by time or weight, robotic applications. It is usually used to reduce the need for sensing technology, such as ultrasonic sensors, GPS, or placement of some linear and rotary encoders, in an autonomous robot, thus greatly reducing cost and complexity at the expense of performance and repeatability. The proper utilization of dead reckoning in this sense would be to supply a known percentage of electrical power or hydraulic pressure to the robot's drive motors over a given amount of time from a general starting point. Dead reckoning is not totally accurate, which can lead to errors in distance estimates ranging from a few millimeters (in CNC machining) to kilometers (in UAVs), based upon the duration of the run, the speed of the robot, the length of the run, and several other factors.\n\nWith the increased sensor offering in smartphones, built-in accelerometers can be used as a pedometer and built-in magnetometer as a compass heading provider. Pedestrian dead reckoning (PDR) can be used to supplement other navigation methods in a similar way to automotive navigation, or to extend navigation into areas where other navigation systems are unavailable.\n\nIn a simple implementation, the user holds their phone in front of them and each step causes position to move forward a fixed distance in the direction measured by the compass. Accuracy is limited by the sensor precision, magnetic disturbances inside structures, and unknown variables such as carrying position and stride length. Another challenge is differentiating walking from running, and recognizing movements like bicycling, climbing stairs, or riding an elevator.\n\nBefore phone-based systems existed, many custom PDR systems existed. While a pedometer can only be used to measure linear distance traveled, PDR systems have an embedded magnetometer for heading measurement. Custom PDR systems can take many forms including special boots, belts, and watches, where the variability of carrying position has been minimized to better utilize magnetometer heading. True dead reckoning is fairly complicated, as it is not only important to minimize basic drift, but also to handle different carrying scenarios and movements, as well as hardware differences across phone models.\n\nThe south-pointing chariot was an ancient Chinese device consisting of a two-wheeled horse-drawn vehicle which carried a pointer that was intended always to aim to the south, no matter how the chariot turned. The chariot pre-dated the navigational use of the magnetic compass, and could not \"detect\" the direction that was south. Instead it used a kind of directional dead reckoning: at the start of a journey, the pointer was aimed southward by hand, using local knowledge or astronomical observations e.g. of the Pole Star. Then, as it traveled, a mechanism possibly containing differential gears used the different rotational speeds of the two wheels to turn the pointer relative to the body of the chariot by the angle of turns made (subject to available mechanical accuracy), keeping the pointer aiming in its original direction, to the south. Errors, as always with dead reckoning, would accumulate as distance traveled increased.\n\nNetworked games and simulation tools routinely use dead reckoning to predict where an actor should be right now, using its last known kinematic state (position, velocity, acceleration, orientation, and angular velocity). This is primarily needed because it is impractical to send network updates at the rate that most games run, 60 Hz. The basic solution starts by projecting into the future using linear physics:\n\nThis formula is used to move the object until a new update is received over the network. At that point, the problem is that there are now two kinematic states: the currently estimated position and the just received, actual position. Resolving these two states in a believable way can be quite complex. One approach is to create a curve (ex cubic Bézier splines, centripetal Catmull–Rom splines, and Hermite curves) between the two states while still projecting into the future. Another technique is to use projective velocity blending, which is the blending of two projections (last known and current) where the current projection uses a blending between the last known and current velocity over a set time.\n\nIn computer science, dead-reckoning refers to navigating an array data structure using indexes. Since every array element has the same size, it is possible to directly access one array element by knowing any position in the array.\n\nGiven the following array:\n\nknowing the memory address where the array starts, it is easy to compute the memory address of D:\n\nLikewise, knowing D's memory address, it is easy to compute the memory address of B:\n\nThis property is particularly important for performance when used in conjunction with arrays of structures because data can be directly accessed, without going through a pointer dereference.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57085125", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57085125", "title": "Deflowering (flowers)", "text": "Deflowering (flowers)\n\nDeflowering is a form of pruning that consists of removing flowers before they develop. It is similar to deadheading but stricter, as deadheading refers to the removal of faded flowers. Deflowering is usually performed on fruit-forming and seed-forming shrubs and trees in their first year. The aim is to prevent the plants from spending energy and nutrients on seed development before they establish themselves. Leaving some flowers and fruits to develop may be necessary for identification purposes.\n"}
{"id": "29549007", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29549007", "title": "Dubinin Trough", "text": "Dubinin Trough\n\nDubinin Trough () is an undersea trough named for Soviet Captain A.I. Dubinin, leader of the 1957 Antarctic expedition. The name was proposed by Dr. G. Agapova of the Geological Institute of the Russian Academy of Sciences, and was approved by the Advisory Committee for Undersea Features in August 1985.\n"}
{"id": "47262522", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47262522", "title": "Dumovec", "text": "Dumovec\n\nDumovec is a village in Croatia. \n"}
{"id": "6199140", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6199140", "title": "Environmental communication", "text": "Environmental communication\n\nEnvironmental communication refers to the study and practice of how individuals, institutions, societies, and cultures craft, distribute, receive, understand, and use messages about the environment and human interactions with the environment. This includes a wide range of possible interactions, from interpersonal communication to virtual communities, participatory decision making, and environmental media coverage. And it also includes verbal communication.\n\nFrom the perspective of practice, Alexander Flor defines environmental communication as the application of communication approaches, principles, strategies and techniques to environmental management and protection.\n\nAs an academic field, environmental communication emerged from interdisciplinary work involving communication, environmental studies, environmental science, risk analysis and management, sociology, and political ecology.\n\nFlor (2004) considers it as a significant element in the environmental sciences, which he believes to be a transdicipline. He begins his textbook on environmental communication with a declarative statement, \"Environmentalism as we know it today began with environmental communication. The environmental movement was ignited by a spark from a writer’s pen, or more specifically and accurately, Rachel Carson’s typewriter.\" According to Flor, environmental communication has six essentials: knowledge of ecological laws; sensitivity to the cultural dimension; ability to network effectively; efficiency in using media for social agenda setting; appreciation and practice of environmental ethics; and conflict resolution, mediation and arbitration (Ibid). In an earlier book, Flor and Gomez (1993) explore the development of an environmental communication curriculum from the perspectives of practitioners from the government, the private sector and the academe.\n\nClimate change communications has historically focused on news coverage and disseminating information. Academic fields such as psychology, environmental sociology, and risk communication have argued that public nonresponse to climate change is due to a lack of information. In her book \"Living in Denial: Climate Change, Emotions, and Everyday Life,\" Norgaard's (2011) study of Bygdaby (a fictional name used for a real city in Norway) found that non-response was much more complex than just a lack of information. In fact, too much information can do the exact opposite because people tend to neglect global warming once they realize there is no easy solution. When people understand the complexity of the issue, they can feel overwhelmed and helpless which can lead to apathy or skepticism. Environmental skepticism is an increasing challenge for environmental rhetoric.\n\nEnvironmental communication is also a type of symbolic action that serves two functions. Those functions are pragmatic and constitutive. Environmental human communication is pragmatic because it helps individuals and organizations to accomplish goals and literally do things through communication. Examples of this include educating, alerting, persuading and collaborating. Environmental human communication is constitutive because it helps to shape people's understandings of environmental issues, themselves, and Nature; it shapes the meanings we hold of these things. Examples of this include values, attitudes, and ideologies vis-à-vis Nature and environmental issues and problems.Environmental nature communication happens when plants actually communicate,within ecosystems:\"A plant injured on one leaf by a nibbling insect can alert its other leaves to begin anticipatory defense responses.\" \"When a leaf gets eaten, it warns other leaves by using some of the same signals as animals. Plant biologists are \"starting to unravel a long-standing mystery about how different parts of a plant communicate with one another.\"\n\nCommunication Theory has one universal law, written by S. F. Scudder in the early 1900s, and later published in 1980. The Universal Communication Law states that, \"All living entities, beings and creatures communicate.\" In an unpublished interview, Scudder clarified the concept - \"All of the living communicate through movements, sounds, reactions, physical changes, gestures, languages, breath, color transformations, etc. Communication is a means of survival, existence and being and does not need another to acknowledge the communication exists. Examples - the cry of a child (communication that it is hungry, hurt, cold, etc.); the browning of a leaf,a leaf that becomes defensive as it's being consumed,\"A plant injured on one leaf by a nibbling insect can alert its other leaves to begin anticipatory defense responses. Working in the model plant Arabidopsis, Toyota et al. show that this systemic signal begins with the release of glutamate, which is perceived by glutamate receptor–like ion channels (see the Perspective by Muday and Brown-Harding). The ion channels then set off a cascade of changes in calcium ion concentration that propagate through the phloem vasculature and through intercellular channels called plasmodesmata. This glutamate-based long-distance signaling is rapid: Within minutes, an undamaged leaf can respond to the fate of a distant leaf.\" and A leaf that communicates that it is being eaten); the cry of an animal (communicating that it is injured, hungry, angry, etc.)are examples that sit inside the universal law that Everything living communicates.\"]\n\nScudder's thesis is aptly reinforced by General Systems Theory, which submits that one of the three critical functions of living systems is the exchange of information with its environment and with other living systems (the other two being the exchange of materials and the exchange of energy). In his book, Flor (2004, page 4) extends this argument by forwarding that, \"All living systems, from the simplest to the most complex, are equipped to perform these critical functions. They are called \"critical\" because they are necessary for the survival of the living system. Communication is nothing more than the exchange of information. Hence, at its broadest sense, environmental communication is necessary for the survival of every living system, be it an organism, an ecosystem, or (even) a social system.\"\n\nAccording to J. Robert Cox, the field of environmental communication is composed of seven major areas of study and practice:\n\n\nRelated, peer-reviewed journals in this field include:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "87003", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87003", "title": "Everglades", "text": "Everglades\n\nThe Everglades is a natural region of tropical wetlands in the southern portion of the U.S. state of Florida, comprising the southern half of a large drainage basin and part of the neotropic ecozone. The system begins near Orlando with the Kissimmee River, which discharges into the vast but shallow Lake Okeechobee. Water leaving the lake in the wet season forms a slow-moving river wide and over long, flowing southward across a limestone shelf to Florida Bay at the southern end of the state. The Everglades experience a wide range of weather patterns, from frequent flooding in the wet season to drought in the dry season. The Seminole Tribe gave the large body of water the name Okeechobee meaning \"River of Grass\" to describe the sawgrass marshes, part of a complex system of interdependent ecosystems that include cypress swamps, the estuarine mangrove forests of the Ten Thousand Islands, tropical hardwood hammocks, pine rockland, and the marine environment of Florida Bay.\n\nHuman habitation in the southern portion of the Florida peninsula dates to 15,000 years ago. Before European colonization, the region was dominated by the native Calusa and Tequesta tribes. With Spanish colonization, both tribes declined gradually during the following two centuries. The Seminole formed from mostly Creek people who had been warring to the North; they assimilated other peoples and created a new culture. After being forced from northern Florida into the Everglades during the Seminole Wars of the early 19th century, they adapted to the region and were able to resist removal by the United States Army.\n\nMigrants to the region who wanted to develop plantations first proposed draining the Everglades in 1848, but no work of this type was attempted until 1882. Canals were constructed throughout the first half of the 20th century, and spurred the South Florida economy, prompting land development. In 1947, Congress formed the Central and Southern Florida Flood Control Project, which built of canals, levees, and water control devices. The Miami metropolitan area grew substantially at this time and Everglades water was diverted to cities. Portions of the Everglades were transformed into farmland, where the primary crop was sugarcane. Approximately 50 percent of the original Everglades has been developed as agricultural or urban areas.\n\nFollowing this period of rapid development and environmental degradation, the ecosystem began to receive notable attention from conservation groups in the 1970s. Internationally, UNESCO and the Ramsar Convention designated the Everglades a Wetland Area of Global Importance. The construction of a large airport north of Everglades National Park was blocked when an environmental study found that it would severely damage the South Florida ecosystem. With heightened awareness and appreciation of the region, restoration began in the 1980s with the removal of a canal that had straightened the Kissimmee River. However, development and sustainability concerns have remained pertinent in the region. The deterioration of the Everglades, including poor water quality in Lake Okeechobee, was linked to the diminishing quality of life in South Florida's urban areas. In 2000 the Comprehensive Everglades Restoration Plan was approved by Congress to combat these problems. To date, it is the most expensive and comprehensive environmental restoration attempt in history, but its implementation has faced political complications.\n\nThe first written record of the Everglades was on Spanish maps made by cartographers who had not seen the land. They named the unknown area between the Gulf and Atlantic coasts of Florida \"Laguna del Espíritu Santo\" (\"Lake of the Holy Spirit\"). The area was featured on maps for decades without having been explored. Writer John Grant Forbes stated in 1811, \"The Indians represent [the Southern points] as impenetrable; and the [British] surveyors, wreckers, and coasters, had not the means of exploring beyond the borders of the sea coast, and the mouths of rivers\".\n\nBritish surveyor John Gerard de Brahm, who mapped the coast of Florida in 1773, called the area \"River Glades\". Both Marjory Stoneman Douglas and linguist Wallace McMullen suggest that cartographers substituted \"Ever\" for \"River\". The name \"Everglades\" first appeared on a map in 1823, although it was also spelled as \"Ever Glades\" as late as 1851. The Seminole call it \"Pahokee\", meaning \"Grassy Water.\" The region was labeled \"Pa-hai-okee\" on a U.S. military map from 1839, although it had earlier been called \"Ever Glades\" throughout the Second Seminole War. The Everglades consist of multiple South Florida towns: Belle Glade, Clewiston, Wellington, Davie, Parts of Miami, Weston, Parts of Fort Lauderdale, Immokalee, Naples, and Everglades City. The everglades are the Florida national park.\n\nA 2007 survey by geographers Ary J. Lamme and Raymond K. Oldakowski found that the \"Glades\" has emerged as a distinct vernacular region of Florida. It comprises the interior areas and southernmost Gulf Coast of South Florida, largely corresponding to the Everglades itself. It is one of the most sparsely populated areas of the state.\n\nThe geology of South Florida, together with a warm, wet, subtropical climate, provides conditions well-suited for a large marshland ecosystem. Layers of porous and permeable limestone create water-bearing rock and soil that affect the climate, weather, and hydrology of South Florida.\nThe properties of the rock underneath the Everglades can be explained by the geologic history of the state. The crust underneath Florida was at one point part of the African region of the supercontinent Gondwana. About 300 million years ago, North America merged with Africa, connecting Florida with North America. Volcanic activity centered on the eastern side of Florida covered the prevalent sedimentary rock with igneous rock. Continental rifting began to separate North America from Gondwana about 180 million years ago. When Florida was part of Africa, it was initially above water, but during the cooler Jurassic Period, the Florida Platform became a shallow marine environment in which sedimentary rocks were deposited. Through the Cretaceous Period, most of Florida remained a tropical sea floor of varying depths. The peninsula has been covered by seawater at least seven times since the bedrock formed.\n\nFluctuating sea levels compressed numerous layers of calcium carbonate, sand, and shells. The resulting permeable limestone formations that developed between 25 million and 70 million years ago created the Floridan Aquifer, which serves as the main source of fresh water for the northern portion of Florida. However, this aquifer lies beneath thousands of feet of impermeable sedimentary rock from Lake Okeechobee to the southern tip of the peninsula.\n\nFive geologic formations make up the southern portion of Florida: the Tamiami Formation, Caloosahatchee Formation, Anastasia Formation, Miami Limestone (or Miami Oolite), and the Fort Thompson Formation. The Tamiami Formation is a compression of highly permeable light colored fossiliferous sands and pockets of quartz, thick. It is named for the Tamiami Trail that follows the upper bedrock of the Big Cypress Swamp, and underlies the southern portion of the Everglades. Between the Tamiami Formation and Lake Okeechobee is the Caloosahatchee Formation, named for the river over it. Much less permeable, this formation is highly calcitic and is composed of sandy shell marl, clay, and sand. Water underneath the Caloosahatchee Formation is typically very mineralized. Both the Tamiami and Caloosahatchee Formations developed during the Pliocene Epoch.\n\nSurrounding the southern part of Lake Okeechobee is the Fort Thompson Formation, made of dense, hard limestone, shells, and sand. Rain water is less likely to erode the limestone to form \"solution holes\"—smaller versions of sinkholes that do not intersect with the water table. In this formation the beds are generally impermeable. Underneath the metropolitan areas of Palm Beach County is the Anastasia Formation, composed of shelly limestone, coquina, and sand representing a former mangrove or salt marsh. The Anastasia Formation is much more permeable and filled with pocks and solution holes. The Fort Thompson and Anastasia Formations, and Miami Limestone and (x), were formed during the Sangamon interglacial period.\n\nThe geologic formations that have the most influence on the Everglades are the Miami Limestone and the Fort Thompson Formation. The Miami Limestone forms the floor of the lower Everglades. The Miami Limestone is made up of ooids: tiny formations of egg-shaped concentric shells and calcium carbonate, formed around a single grain of sand. The Miami Limestone was formerly named the Miami Oolite, which comprises facies of ooids and fossilized bryozoan organisms. The unique structure was some of the first material used in housing in early 20th-century South Florida. The composition of this sedimentary formation affects the hydrology, plant life, and wildlife above it: the rock is especially porous and stores water during the dry season in the Everglades, and its chemical composition determines the vegetation prevalent in the region. The Miami Limestone also acts as a dam between Fort Lauderdale and Coot Bay.\n\nThe metropolitan areas of Miami, Fort Lauderdale, and West Palm Beach are located on a rise in elevation along the eastern coast of Florida, called the Eastern Coastal Ridge, that was formed as waves compressed ooids into a single formation. Along the western border of the Big Cypress Swamp is the Immokolee Ridge (or Immokolee Rise), a slight rise of compressed sand that divides the runoff between the Caloosahatchee River and The Big Cypress. This slight rise in elevation on both sides of the Everglades creates a basin, and forces water that overflows Lake Okeechobee to creep toward the southwest.\nUnder both the Miami Limestone formation and the Fort Thompson limestone lies the Biscayne Aquifer, a surface aquifer that serves as the Miami metropolitan area's fresh water source. Rainfall and stored water in the Everglades replenish the Biscayne Aquifer directly.\n\nWith the rise of sea levels that occurred during the Pleistocene approximately 17,000 years ago, the runoff of water from Lake Okeechobee slowed and created the vast marshland that is now known as the Everglades. Slower runoff also created an accumulation of almost 18 feet (5.5 m) of peat in the area. The presence of such peat deposits, dated to about 5,000 years ago, is evidence that widespread flooding had occurred by then.\n\nThe consistent Everglades flooding is fed by the extensive Kissimmee, Caloosahatchee, Miami, Myakka, and Peace Rivers in central Florida. The Kissimmee River is a broad floodplain that empties directly into Lake Okeechobee, which at with an average depth of , is a vast but shallow lake. Soil deposits in the Everglades basin indicate that peat is deposited where the land is flooded consistently throughout the year. Calcium deposits are left behind when flooding is shorter. The deposits occur in areas where water rises and falls depending on rainfall, as opposed to water being stored in the rock from one year to the next. Calcium deposits are present where more limestone is exposed.\n\nThe area from Orlando to the tip of the Florida peninsula was at one point a single drainage unit. When rainfall exceeded the capacity of Lake Okeechobee and the Kissimmee River floodplain, it spilled over and flowed in a southwestern direction to empty into Florida Bay. Prior to urban and agricultural development in Florida, the Everglades began at the southern edge of Lake Okeechobee and flowed for approximately , emptying into the Gulf of Mexico. The limestone shelf is wide and slightly angled instead of having a narrow, deep channel characteristic of most rivers. The vertical gradient from Lake Okeechobee to Florida Bay is about per mile, creating an almost wide expanse of river that travels about half a mile (0.8 km) a day. This slow movement of a broad, shallow river is known as \"sheetflow\", and gives the Everglades its nickname, River of Grass. Water leaving Lake Okeechobee may require months or years to reach its final destination, Florida Bay. The sheetflow travels so slowly that water is typically stored from one wet season to the next in the porous limestone substrate. The ebb and flow of water has shaped the land and every ecosystem in South Florida throughout the Everglades' estimated 5,000 years of existence. The motion of water defines plant communities and how animals adapt to their habitats and food sources.\n\nThe climate of South Florida is located across the broad transition zone between subtropical and tropical climates (Koppen Cfa and Aw). Like most regions with this climate type, there are two basic seasons – a \"dry season\" (winter) which runs from November through April, and a \"wet season\" (summer) which runs from May through October. About 70% of the annual rainfall in south Florida occurs in the wet season – often as brief but intense tropical downpours. The dry season sees little rainfall and dew points and humidity are often quite low. The dry season can be severe at times, as wildfires and water restrictions are often in place.\n\nThe annual range of temperatures in south Florida and the Everglades is rather small (less than 20 °F [11 °C]) – ranging from a monthly mean temperature of around in January to in July. High temperatures in the hot and wet season (summer) typically exceed across inland south Florida (although coastal locations are cooled by winds from the Gulf of Mexico and the Atlantic Ocean), while high temperatures in the dry winter season average from . Frost and freeze is rare across south Florida and the Everglades; annually coastal cities like Miami and Naples report zero days with frost, although a few times each decade low temperatures may fall between across South Florida. Annual rainfall averages approximately , with the Eastern Coastal Ridge receiving the majority of precipitation and the area surrounding Lake Okeechobee receiving about .\n\nUnlike any other wetland system on earth, the Everglades are sustained primarily by the atmosphere. Evapotranspiration – the sum of evaporation and plant transpiration from the Earth's land surface to atmosphere – associated with thunderstorms, is the key mechanism by which water leaves the region. During a year unaffected by drought, the rate may reach a year. When droughts take place, the rate may peak at over , and exceed the amount of rainfall. As water leaves an area through evaporation from groundwater or from plant matter, activated primarily by solar energy, it is then moved by wind patterns to other areas that border or flow into the Everglades watershed system. Evapotranspiration is responsible for approximately 70–90 percent of water entering undeveloped wetland regions in the Everglades.\n\nPrecipitation during the wet season is primarily caused by air mass thunderstorms and the easterly flow out of the subtropical high (Bermuda High). Intense daytime heating of the ground causes the warm moist tropical air to rise, creating the afternoon thundershowers typical of tropical climates. 2:00 pm is the mean time of daily thundershowers across South Florida and the Everglades. Late in the wet season (August and September), precipitation levels reach their highest levels as tropical depressions and lows add to daily rainfall. Occasionally, tropical lows can become severe tropical cyclones and cause significant damage when the make landfall across south Florida. Tropical storms average one a year, and major hurricanes about once every ten years. Between 1871 and 1981, 138 tropical cyclones struck directly over or close to the Everglades. Strong winds from these storms disperse plant seeds and replenish mangrove forests, coral reefs, and other ecosystems. Dramatic fluctuations in precipitation are characteristic of the South Florida climate. Droughts, floods, and tropical cyclones are part of the natural water system in the Everglades.\n\nThe Everglades are a complex system of interdependent ecosystems. Marjory Stoneman Douglas described the area as a \"River of Grass\" in 1947, though that metaphor represents only a portion of the system. The area recognized as the Everglades, prior to drainage, was a web of marshes and prairies in size. Borders between ecosystems are subtle or imperceptible. These systems shift, grow and shrink, die, or reappear within years or decades. Geologic factors, climate, and the frequency of fire help to create, maintain, or replace the ecosystems in the Everglades.\n\nWater is the dominant force in the Everglades, shaping the land, vegetation, and animal life in South Florida. Starting at the last glacial maximum, 21,000 years ago, continental ice sheets retreated and sea levels rose. This submerged portions of the Florida peninsula and caused the water table to rise. Fresh water saturated the limestone that underlies the Everglades, eroding some of it away, and created springs and sinkholes. The abundance of fresh water allowed new vegetation to take root, and formed convective thunderstorms over the land through evaporation.\n\nAs rain continued to fall, the slightly acidic rainwater dissolved the limestone. As limestone wore away, the groundwater came into contact with the land surface and created a massive wetland ecosystem. Although the region appears flat, weathering of the limestone created slight valleys and plateaus in some areas. These plateaus rise and fall only a few inches, but on the subtle South Florida topography these small variations affect both the flow of water and the types of vegetation that can take hold.\n\nThe underlying bedrock or limestone of the Everglades basin affects the \"hydroperiod\", or how long an area within the region stays flooded throughout the year. Longer hydroperiods are possible in areas that were submerged beneath seawater for longer periods of time, while the geology of Florida was forming. More water is held within the porous ooids and limestone than older types of rock that spent more time above sea level. A hydroperiod of ten months or more fosters growth of sawgrass, whereas a shorter hydroperiod of six months or less promotes beds of periphyton, a growth of algae and other microscopic organisms. There are only two types of soil in the Everglades, peat and marl. Where there are longer hydroperiods, peat builds up over hundreds or thousands of years due to many generations of decaying plant matter. Where periphyton grows, the soil develops into marl, which is more calcitic in composition.\n\nInitial attempts at developing agriculture near Lake Okeechobee were successful, but the nutrients in the peat were rapidly removed. In a process called soil subsidence, oxidation of peat causes loss of volume. Bacteria decompose dead sawgrass slowly underwater without oxygen. When the water was drained in the 1920s and bacteria interacted with oxygen, an aerobic reaction occurred. Microorganisms degraded the peat into carbon dioxide and water. Some of the peat was burned by settlers to clear the land. Some homes built in the areas of early farms had to have their foundations moved to stilts as the peat deteriorated; other areas lost approximately of soil depth.\n\nFire is an important element in the natural maintenance of the Everglades. The majority of fires are caused by lightning strikes from thunderstorms during the wet season. Their effects are largely superficial, and serve to foster specific plant growth: sawgrass will burn above water, but the roots are preserved underneath. Fire in the sawgrass marshes serves to keep out larger bushes and trees, and releases nutrients from decaying plant matter more efficiently than decomposition. Whereas in the wet season, dead plant matter and the tips of grasses and trees are burned, in the dry season the fire may be fed by organic peat and burn deeply, destroying root systems. Fires are confined by existing water and rainfall. It takes approximately 225 years for one foot (.30 m) of peat to develop, but in some locations the peat is less dense than it should be for the 5,000 years of the Everglades' existence. Scientists indicate fire as the cause; it is also cited as the reason for the black color of Everglades muck. Layers of charcoal have been detected in the peat in portions of the Everglades that indicate the region endured severe fires for years at a time, although this trend seems to have abated since the last occurrence in 940 BCE.\n\nSeveral ecosystems are present in the Everglades, and boundaries between them are subtle or absent. The primary feature of the Everglades is the sawgrass marsh. The iconic water and sawgrass combination in the shallow river long and wide that spans from Lake Okeechobee to Florida Bay is often referred to as the \"true Everglades\" or just \"the Glades\". Prior to the first drainage attempts in 1905, the sheetflow occupied nearly a third of the lower Florida peninsula. Sawgrass thrives in the slowly moving water, but may die in unusually deep floods if oxygen is unable to reach its roots. It is particularly vulnerable immediately after a fire. The hydroperiod for the marsh is at least nine months, and can last longer. Where sawgrass grows densely, few animals or other plants live, although alligators choose these locations for nesting. Where there is more room, periphyton grows. Periphyton supports larval insects and amphibians, which in turn are consumed as food by birds, fish, and reptiles. It also absorbs calcium from water, which adds to the calcitic composition of the marl.\n\nSloughs, or free-flowing channels of water, develop in between sawgrass prairies. Sloughs are about deeper than sawgrass marshes, and may stay flooded for at least 11 months out of the year and sometimes multiple years in a row. Aquatic animals such as turtles, alligators, snakes, and fish thrive in sloughs; they usually feed on aquatic invertebrates. Submerged and floating plants grow here, such as bladderwort (\"Utricularia\"), waterlily (\"Nymphaeaceae\"), and spatterdock (\"Nuphar lutea\"). Major sloughs in the Everglades system include the Shark River Slough flowing out to Florida Bay, Lostmans River Slough bordering The Big Cypress, and Taylor Slough in the eastern Everglades.\n\nWet prairies are slightly elevated like sawgrass marshes, but with greater plant diversity. The surface is covered in water only three to seven months of the year, and the water is, on average, shallow at only deep. When flooded, the marl can support a variety of water plants. Solution holes, or deep pits where the limestone has worn away, may remain flooded even when the prairies are dry, and they support aquatic invertebrates such as crayfish and snails, and larval amphibians which feed young wading birds. These regions tend to border between sloughs and sawgrass marshes.\n\nAlligators have created a niche in wet prairies. With their claws and snouts they dig at low spots and create ponds free of vegetation that remain submerged throughout the dry season. Alligator holes are integral to the survival of aquatic invertebrates, turtles, fish, small mammals, and birds during extended drought periods. The alligators then feed upon some of the animals that come to the hole.\n\nSmall islands of trees growing on land raised between and above sloughs and prairies are called tropical hardwood hammocks. They may range from one (4,000 m²) to ten acres (40,000 m²) in area, and appear in freshwater sloughs, sawgrass prairies, or pineland. Hammocks are slightly elevated on limestone plateaus risen several inches above the surrounding peat, or they may grow on land that has been unharmed by deep peat fires. Hardwood hammocks exhibit a mixture of subtropical and hardwood trees, such as Southern live oak (\"Quercus virginiana\"), gumbo limbo (\"Bursera simaruba\"), royal palm (\"Roystonea\"), and bustic (\"Dipholis salicifolia\") that grow in very dense clumps. Near the base, sharp saw palmettos (\"Serenoa repens\") flourish, making the hammocks very difficult for people to penetrate, though small mammals, reptiles and amphibians find these islands an ideal habitat. Water in sloughs flows around the islands, creating moats. Although some ecosystems are maintained and promoted by fire, hammocks may take decades or centuries to recover. The moats around the hammocks protect the trees. The trees are limited in height by weather factors such as frost, lightning, and wind; the majority of trees in hammocks grow no higher than .\n\nSome of the driest land in the Everglades is pineland (also called pine rockland) ecosystem, located in the highest part of the Everglades with little to no hydroperiod. Some floors, however, may have flooded solution holes or puddles for a few months at a time. The most significant feature of the pineland is the single species of South Florida slash pine (\"Pinus elliottii\"). Pineland communities require fire to maintain them, and the trees have several adaptations that simultaneously promote and resist fire. The sandy floor of the pine forest is covered with dry pine needles that are highly flammable. South Florida slash pines are insulated by their bark to protect them from heat. Fire eliminates competing vegetation on the forest floor, and opens pine cones to germinate seeds. A period without significant fire can turn pineland into a hardwood hammock as larger trees overtake the slash pines. The understory shrubs in pine rocklands are the fire-resistant saw palmetto (\"Serenoa repens\"), cabbage palm (\"Sabal palmetto\"), and West Indian lilac (\"Tetrazygia bicolor\"). The most diverse group of plants in the pine community are the herbs, of which there are two dozen species. These plants contain tubers and other mechanisms that allow them to sprout quickly after being charred.\n\nPrior to urban development of the South Florida region, pine rocklands covered approximately in Miami-Dade County. Within Everglades National Park, of pine forests are protected, but outside the park, of pine communities remained as of 1990, averaging in area. The misunderstanding of the role of fire also played a part in the disappearance of pine forests in the area, as natural fires were put out and pine rocklands transitioned into hardwood hammocks. Prescribed fires occur in Everglades National Park in pine rocklands every three to seven years.\n\nCypress swamps can be found throughout the Everglades, but the largest covers most of Collier County. The Big Cypress Swamp is located to the west of the sawgrass prairies and sloughs, and it is commonly called \"The Big Cypress.\" The name refers to its area rather than the height or diameter of the trees; at its most conservative estimate, the swamp measures , but the hydrologic boundary of The Big Cypress can be calculated at over . Most of The Big Cypress sits atop a bedrock covered by a thinner layer of limestone. The limestone underneath the Big Cypress contains quartz, which creates sandy soil that hosts a variety of vegetation different from what is found in other areas of the Everglades. The basin for The Big Cypress receives on average of water in the wet season.\n\nAlthough The Big Cypress is the largest growth of cypress swamps in South Florida, cypress swamps can be found near the Atlantic Coastal Ridge and between Lake Okeechobee and the Eastern flatwoods, as well as in sawgrass marshes. Cypresses are deciduous conifers that are uniquely adapted to thrive in flooded conditions, with buttressed trunks and root projections that protrude out of the water, called \"knees\". Bald cypress trees grow in formations with the tallest and thickest trunks in the center, rooted in the deepest peat. As the peat thins out, cypresses grow smaller and thinner, giving the small forest the appearance of a dome from the outside. They also grow in strands, slightly elevated on a ridge of limestone bordered on either side by sloughs. Other hardwood trees can be found in cypress domes, such as red maple, swamp bay, and pop ash. If cypresses are removed, the hardwoods take over, and the ecosystem is recategorized as a mixed swamp forest.\n\nEventually the water from Lake Okeechobee and The Big Cypress makes its way to the ocean. Mangrove trees are well adapted to the transitional zone of brackish water where fresh and salt water meet. The estuarine ecosystem of the Ten Thousand Islands, which is comprised almost completely of mangrove forests, covers almost . In the wet season fresh water pours out into Florida Bay, and sawgrass begins to grow closer to the coastline. In the dry season, and particularly in extended periods of drought, the salt water creeps inland into the coastal prairie, an ecosystem that buffers the freshwater marshes by absorbing sea water. Mangrove trees begin to grow in fresh water ecosystems when the salt water goes far enough inland.\n\nThere are three species of trees that are considered mangroves: red (\"Rhizophora mangle\"), black (\"Avicennia germinans\"), and white (\"Laguncularia racemosa\"), although all are from different families. All grow in oxygen-poor soil, can survive drastic water level changes, and are tolerant of salt, brackish, and fresh water. All three mangrove species are integral to coastline protection during severe storms. Red mangroves have the farthest-reaching roots, trapping sediments that help build coastlines after and between storms. All three types of trees absorb the energy of waves and storm surges. Everglades mangroves also serve as nurseries for crustaceans and fish, and rookeries for birds. The region supports Tortugas pink shrimp (\"Farfantepenaeus duorarum\") and stone crab (\"Menippe mercenaria\") industries; between 80 and 90 percent of commercially harvested crustacean species in Florida's salt waters are born or spend time near the Everglades.\n\nMuch of the coast and the inner estuaries are built of mangroves; there is no border between the coastal marshes and the bay. Thus the marine ecosystems in Florida Bay are considered to be a part of the Everglades watershed and one of the ecosystems connected to and affected by the Everglades as a whole. More than of Florida Bay is protected by Everglades National Park, representing the largest body of water in the park boundaries. There are approximately 100 keys in Florida Bay, many of which are mangrove forests. The fresh water coming into Florida Bay from the Everglades creates perfect conditions for vast beds of turtle grass and algae formations that are the foundation for animal life in the bay. Sea turtles and manatees eat the grass, while invertebrate animals, such as worms, clams and other mollusks eat the algae formations and microscopic plankton. Female sea turtles return annually to nest on the shore, and manatees spend the winter months in the warmer water of the bay. Sea grasses also serve to stabilize the sea beds and protect shorelines from erosion by absorbing energy from waves.\n\nHumans arrived in the Florida peninsula approximately 15,000 years ago. Paleo-Indians came to Florida probably following large game that included giant sloths, saber-toothed cats, and spectacled bears. They found an arid landscape that supported plants and animals adapted for desert conditions. However, 6,500 years ago, climate changes brought a wetter landscape; large animals became extinct in Florida, and the Paleo-Indians slowly adapted and became the Archaic peoples. They conformed to the environmental changes, and created many tools with the various resources available. During the Late Archaic period, the climate became wetter again, and approximately 3000 BCE the rise of water tables allowed an increase in population and cultural activity. Florida Indians developed into three distinct but similar cultures that were named for the bodies of water near where they were located: Okeechobee, Caloosahatchee, and Glades.\n\nFrom the Glades peoples, two major nations emerged in the area: the Calusa and the Tequesta. The Calusa was the largest and most powerful nation in South Florida. It controlled fifty villages located on Florida's west coast, around Lake Okeechobee, and on the Florida Keys. Most Calusa villages were located at the mouths of rivers or on key islands. The Calusa were hunter-gatherers who lived on small game, fish, turtles, alligators, shellfish, and various plants. Most of their tools were made of bone or teeth, although sharpened reeds were also effective for hunting or war. Calusa weapons consisted of bows and arrows, atlatls, and spears. Canoes were used for transportation, and South Florida tribes often canoed through the Everglades, but rarely lived in them. Canoe trips to Cuba were also common.\n\nEstimated numbers of Calusa at the beginning of the Spanish occupation ranged from 4,000 to 7,000. The society declined in power and population; by 1697 their number was estimated to be about 1,000. In the early 18th century, the Calusa came under attack from the Yamasee to the north. They asked the Spanish for refuge in Cuba, where almost 200 died of illness. Soon they were relocated again to the Florida Keys.\n\nSecond in power and number to the Calusa in South Florida were the Tequesta. They occupied the southeastern portion of the lower peninsula in modern-day Dade and Broward counties. Like the Calusa, the Tequesta societies centered on the mouths of rivers. Their main village was probably on the Miami River or Little River. Spanish depictions of the Tequesta state that they were greatly feared by sailors, who suspected them of torturing and killing survivors of shipwrecks. With an increasing European presence in south Florida, Native Americans from the Keys and other areas began increasing their trips to Cuba. Official permission for the immigration of Native Americans from the Florida Keys was granted by Cuban officials in 1704. Spanish priests attempted to set up missions in 1743, but noted that the Tequesta were under assault from a neighboring tribe. When only 30 members were left, they were removed to Havana. A British surveyor in 1770 described multiple deserted villages in the region where the Tequesta lived. Common descriptions of Native Americans in Florida by 1820 used only the term \"Seminoles\".\n\nFollowing the demise of the Calusa and Tequesta, Native Americans in southern Florida were referred to as \"Spanish Indians\" in the 1740s, probably due to their friendlier relations with Spain. The Creek invaded the Florida peninsula; they conquered and assimilated what was left of pre-Columbian societies into the Creek Confederacy. They were joined by remnant Indian groups and formed the Seminole, a new tribe, by ethnogenesis. The Seminole originally settled in the northern portion of the territory. In addition, free blacks and fugitive slaves made their way to Florida, where Spain had promised slaves freedom and arms if they converted to Catholicism and pledged loyalty to Spain. These African Americans gradually created communities near those of the Seminole, and became known as the Black Seminoles. The groups acted as allies.\n\nIn 1817, Andrew Jackson invaded Florida to hasten its annexation to the United States, in what became known as the First Seminole War. After Florida became a U.S. territory in 1821, conflicts between settlers and the Seminole increased as the former tried to acquire lands. The Second Seminole War lasted from 1835 to 1842, and afterward, the US forcibly removed about 3,000 Seminole and 800 Black Seminole to Indian Territory (now Oklahoma), west of the Mississippi River. Many others died in the war. Conflict broke out again in the Third Seminole War from 1855 to 1859, when a few hundred Seminole fought off US forces from the swamps of the Everglades. The US finally decided to leave them alone, as they could not dislodge them even after this protracted and expensive warfare.\n\nBy 1913, the Seminole in the Everglades numbered no more than 325. They made a living by hunting and trading with white settlers, and raised domesticated animals. The Seminole made their villages in hardwood hammocks or pinelands, had diets of hominy and coontie roots, fish, turtles, venison, and small game. Their villages were not large, due to the limited size of the hammocks. Between the end of the last Seminole War and 1930, the people lived in relative isolation from the majority culture.\n\nThe construction of the Tamiami Trail, beginning in 1928 and spanning the region from Tampa to Miami, altered their ways of life. Some began to work in local farms, ranches, and souvenir stands. Some of the people who interacted more with European Americans began to move to reservations in the 1940s. These were their bases for reorganizing their government and they became federally recognized in 1957 as the Seminole Tribe of Florida.\n\nPeople who kept more traditional ways had settlements along the Tamiami Trail and tended to speak the Mikasuki language. They later were federally recognized in 1962 as the Miccosukee Tribe of Indians of Florida. As metropolitan areas in South Florida began to grow, the two groups were closely associated with the Everglades. They struggled to maintain privacy while serving as tourist attractions. They earned money by wrestling alligators and selling craftworks. , the Seminole Tribe of Florida had five reservations, and the lands of the Miccosukee Tribe of Indians were collectively considered a sixth reservation. The two tribes have each developed casino gaming on some of their properties to generate revenue for support, services and economic development.\n\nThe military penetration of southern Florida offered the opportunity to map a poorly understood and largely unknown part of the country. An 1840 expedition into the Everglades offered the first printed account for the general public to read about the Everglades. The anonymous writer described the terrain the party was crossing:\nNo country that I have ever heard of bears any resemblance to it; it seems like a vast sea filled with grass and green trees, and expressly intended as a retreat for the rascally Indian, from which the white man would never seek to drive them.\n\nThe land seemed to inspire extreme reactions of both wonder or hatred. During the Second Seminole War an army surgeon wrote, \"It is in fact a most hideous region to live in, a perfect paradise for Indians, alligators, serpents, frogs, and every other kind of loathsome reptile.\" In 1897, explorer Hugh Willoughby spent eight days canoeing with a party from the mouth of the Harney River to the Miami River. He sent his observations to the \"New Orleans Times-Democrat\". Willoughby described the water as healthy and wholesome, with numerous springs, and 10,000 alligators \"more or less\" in Lake Okeechobee. The party encountered thousands of birds near the Shark River, \"killing hundreds, but they continued to return\". Willoughby pointed out that much of the rest of the country had been explored and mapped except for this part of Florida, writing, \"(w)e have a tract of land one hundred and thirty miles long and seventy miles wide that is as much unknown to the white man as the heart of Africa.\"\n\nA national push for expansion and progress in the United States occurred in the later part of the 19th century, which stimulated interest in draining the Everglades for agricultural use. According to historians, \"From the middle of the nineteenth century to the middle of the twentieth century, the United States went through a period in which wetland removal was not questioned. Indeed, it was considered the proper thing to do.\" Draining the Everglades was suggested as early as 1837, and a resolution in Congress was passed in 1842 that prompted Secretary of Treasury Robert J. Walker to request those with experience in the Everglades to give their opinion on the possibility of drainage. Many officers who had served in the Seminole Wars favored the idea. In 1850 Congress passed a law that gave several states wetlands within their state boundaries. The Swamp and Overflowed Lands Act ensured that the state would be responsible for funding the attempts at developing wetlands into farmlands. Florida quickly formed a committee to consolidate grants to pay for any attempts, though the Civil War and Reconstruction halted progress until after 1877.\n\nAfter the Civil War, a state agency called the Internal Improvement Fund (IIF), whose purpose was to improve Florida's roads, canals, and rail lines, was discovered to be deeply in debt. The IIF found a Pennsylvania real estate developer named Hamilton Disston interested in implementing plans to drain the land for agriculture. Disston purchased of land for $1 million in 1881, and he began constructing canals near St. Cloud. At first the canals seemed to work in lowering the water levels in the wetlands surrounding the rivers. They were effective in lowering the groundwater, but it became apparent that their capacity was insufficient for the wet season. Although Disston's canals did not drain well, his purchase primed the economy of Florida. It made news and attracted tourists and land buyers. Within four years property values doubled, and the population increased significantly.\n\nThe IIF was able to invest in development projects due to Disston's purchase, and an opportunity to improve transportation arose when oil tycoon Henry Flagler began purchasing land and building rail lines along the east coast of Florida, as far south as Palm Beach in 1893. Along the way he built resort hotels, transforming territorial outposts into tourist destinations. The land bordering the rail lines was developed as citrus farms. By 1896 the rail line had been extended to Biscayne Bay. Three months after the first train had arrived, the residents of Miami voted to incorporate the town. Miami became a prime destination for extremely wealthy people after the Royal Palm Hotel was opened.\n\nDuring the 1904 gubernatorial race, the strongest candidate, Napoleon Bonaparte Broward, promoted draining the Everglades. He called the future of South Florida the \"Empire of the Everglades\". Soon after his successful election, he began work to \"drain that abominable pestilence-ridden swamp\", and pushed the Florida legislature to form a group of commissioners to oversee reclamation of flooded lands. In 1907 they established the Everglades Drainage District and began to study how to build the most effective canals, and how to fund them. Governor Broward ran for the U.S. Senate in 1908 but lost. Broward was paid by land developer Richard J. Bolles to tour the state to promote drainage. Elected to the Senate in 1910, Broward died before he could take office. Land in the Everglades was being sold for $15 an acre a month after Broward died. Meanwhile, Henry Flagler continued to build railway stations at towns as soon as the populations warranted them.\n\nWith the construction of canals, newly reclaimed Everglades land was promoted throughout the United States. Land developers sold 20,000 lots in a few months in 1912. Advertisements promised within eight weeks of arrival, a farmer could be making a living, although for many it took at least two months to clear the land. Some tried burning off the sawgrass or other vegetation, only to learn that the peat continued to burn. Animals and tractors used for plowing got mired in the muck and were useless. When the muck dried, it turned to a fine black powder and created dust storms. Although initially crops sprouted quickly and lushly, they just as quickly wilted and died, seemingly without reason.\n\nThe increasing population in towns near the Everglades hunted in the area. Raccoons and otters were the most widely hunted for their skins. Hunting often went unchecked; in one trip, a Lake Okeechobee hunter killed 250 alligators and 172 otters. Water birds were a particular target of plume hunting. Bird feathers were used in women's hats in the late 19th and early 20th centuries.\n\nIn 1886, 5 million birds were estimated to be killed for their feathers. They were shot usually in the spring, when their feathers were colored for mating and nesting. The plumes, or aigrettes, as they were called in the millinery business, sold for $32 an ounce in 1915— the price of gold. Millinery was a $17 million a year industry that motivated plume harvesters to lay in watch of nests of egrets and many colored birds during the nesting season, shoot the parents with small-bore rifles, and leave the chicks to starve. Plumes from Everglades wading birds could be found in Havana, New York City, London, and Paris. Hunters could collect plumes from a hundred birds on a good day.\n\nRum-runners used the Everglades as a hiding spot during Prohibition; it was so vast there were never enough law enforcement officers to patrol it. The arrival of the railroad, and the discovery that adding trace elements like copper was the remedy for crops sprouting and dying quickly, soon created a population boom. New towns such as Moore Haven, Clewiston, and Belle Glade sprouted like the crops. Sugarcane became the primary crop grown in South Florida. Miami experienced a second real estate boom that earned a developer in Coral Gables $150 million. Undeveloped land north of Miami sold for $30,600 an acre. In 1925, Miami newspapers published editions weighing over , most of it in real estate advertising. Waterfront property was the most highly valued. Mangrove trees were cut down and replaced with palm trees to improve the view. Acres of South Florida slash pine were cleared. Some of the pine was for lumber, but most of the pine forests in Dade County were cleared for development.\n\nTwo catastrophic hurricanes in 1926 and 1928 caused Lake Okeechobee to breach its levees, killing thousands of people. The government began to focus on the control of floods rather than drainage. The Okeechobee Flood Control District was created in 1929, financed by both state and federal funds. President Herbert Hoover toured the towns affected by the 1928 Okeechobee Hurricane and ordered the Army Corps of Engineers to assist the communities surrounding the lake. Between 1930 and 1937 a dike long was built around the southern edge of the lake. Control of the Hoover Dike and the waters of Lake Okeechobee were delegated to federal powers: the United States declared legal limits of the lake to between . A massive canal was also constructed wide and deep through the Caloosahatchee River; whenever the lake rose too high, the excess water left through the canal. More than $20 million was spent on the entire project. Sugarcane production soared after the dike and canal were built. The populations of the small towns surrounding the lake jumped from 3,000 to 9,000 after World War II.\n\nImmediately the effects of the Hoover Dike were seen. An extended drought occurred in the 1930s; with the wall preventing water from leaving Lake Okeechobee and canals and ditches removing other water, the Everglades became parched. Peat turned to dust. Salt ocean water intruded into Miami's wells; when the city brought in an expert to explain why, he discovered that the water in the Everglades was the area's groundwater—here, it appeared on the surface. In 1939, a million acres (4,000 km²) of Everglades burned, and the black clouds of peat and sawgrass fires hung over Miami. Scientists who took soil samples before draining did not take into account that the organic composition of peat and muck in the Everglades make it prone to soil subsidence when it becomes dry. Naturally occurring bacteria in Everglades peat and muck assist with the process of decomposition under water, which is generally very slow, partially due to the low levels of dissolved oxygen. When water levels became so low that peat and muck were at the surface, the bacteria interacted with much higher levels of oxygen in the air, rapidly breaking down the soil. In some places, homes had to be moved to stilts and of soil was lost.\n\nThe idea of a national park for the Everglades was pitched in 1928, when a Miami land developer named Ernest F. Coe established the Everglades Tropical National Park Association. It had enough support to be declared a national park by Congress in 1934. It took another 13 years to be dedicated on December 6, 1947. One month before the dedication of the park, a former editor from \"The Miami Herald\" and freelance writer named Marjory Stoneman Douglas released her first book titled \"\". After researching the region for five years, she described the history and ecology of the South Florida in great detail. She characterized the Everglades as a river instead of a stagnant swamp. The last chapter was titled, \"The Eleventh Hour\" and warned that the Everglades were dying, although it could be reversed.\n\nThe same year the park was dedicated, two hurricanes and the wet season caused to fall on South Florida. Although there were no human casualties, agricultural interests lost approximately $59 million. In 1948 Congress approved the Central and Southern Florida Project for Flood Control and Other Purposes (C&SF), which divided the Everglades into basins. In the northern Everglades were Water Conservation Areas (WCAs), and the Everglades Agricultural Area (EAA) bordering to the south of Lake Okeechobee. In the southern Everglades was Everglades National Park. Levees and pumping stations bordered each WCA, and released water in dryer times or removed it and pumped it to the ocean in times of flood. The WCAs took up approximately 37 percent of the original Everglades. The C&SF constructed over of canals, and hundreds of pumping stations and levees within three decades. During the 1950s and 1960s the Miami metropolitan area grew four times as fast as the rest of the nation. Between 1940 and 1965, 6 million people moved to South Florida: 1,000 people moved to Miami every week. Developed areas between the mid-1950s and the late 1960s quadrupled. Much of the water reclaimed from the Everglades was sent to newly developed areas.\n\nThe C&SF established for the Everglades Agricultural Area—27 percent of the Everglades prior to development. In the late 1920s, agricultural experiments indicated that adding large amounts of manganese sulfate to Everglades muck produced a profitable harvest for vegetables. The primary cash crop in the EAA is sugarcane, though sod, beans, lettuce, celery, and rice are also grown. Fields in the EAA are typically , bordered by canals on two sides, that are connected to larger canals where water is pumped in or out depending on the needs of the crops. The fertilizers used on vegetables, along with high concentrations of nitrogen and phosphorus that are the byproduct of decayed soil necessary for sugarcane production, were pumped into WCAs south of the EAA. The introduction of large amounts of these chemicals provided opportunities for exotic plants to take hold in the Everglades. One of the defining characteristics of natural Everglades ecology is its ability to support itself in a nutrient-poor environment, and the introduction of fertilizers began to alter the plant life in the region.\n\nA turning point came for development in the Everglades at the proposal in the late 1960s for an expanded airport, after Miami International Airport outgrew its capacities. The new jetport was planned to be larger than O'Hare, Dulles, JFK, and LAX airports combined, and the chosen location was north of Everglades National Park. The first sentence of the U.S. Department of Interior study of the environmental impact of the jetport read, \"Development of the proposed jetport and its attendant facilities ... will inexorably destroy the south Florida ecosystem and thus the Everglades National Park\". When studies indicated the proposed jetport would create of raw sewage a day and of jet engine pollutants a year, the project met staunch opposition. \"The New York Times\" called it a \"blueprint for disaster\", and Wisconsin senator Gaylord Nelson wrote to President Richard Nixon voicing his opposition: \"It is a test of whether or not we are really committed in this country to protecting our environment.\" Governor Claude Kirk withdrew his support for the project, and Marjory Stoneman Douglas was persuaded at 79 years old to go on tour to give hundreds of speeches against it. Nixon instead established Big Cypress National Preserve, announcing it in the Special Message to the Congress Outlining the 1972 Environmental Program .\n\nThe Central and Southern Florida Flood Control Project's final construction project was straightening the Kissimmee River, a meandering -long river that was drained to make way for grazing land and agriculture. The C&SF started building the C-38 canal in 1962 and the effects were seen almost immediately. Waterfowl, wading birds, and fish disappeared, prompting conservationists and sport fishers to demand the region be restored before the canal was finished in 1971. In general, C&SF projects had been criticized for being temporary fixes that ignored future consequences, costing billions of dollars with no end in sight. After Governor Bob Graham initiated the Save Our Everglades campaign in 1983, the first section of the canal was backfilled in 1986. Graham announced that by 2000 the Everglades would be restored as closely as possible to its pre-drainage state. The Kissimmee River Restoration project was approved by Congress in 1992. It is estimated that it will cost $578 million to convert only of the canal. The entire project was to be complete by 2011, yet , the project is \"more than halfway complete\" and the new completion date is 2020.\n\nFurther problems with the environment arose when a vast algal bloom appeared in one-fifth of Lake Okeechobee in 1986, the same year cattails were discovered overtaking sawgrass marshes in Loxahatchee National Wildlife Refuge. Scientists discovered that phosphorus, used as a fertilizer in the EAA, was flushed into canals and pumped back into the lake. When the lake drained, the phosphorus entered the water in the marshes, changing the nutrient levels. It kept periphyton from forming marl, one of two soils in the Everglades. The arrival of phosphorus allowed cattails to spread quickly. The cattails grew in dense mats—too thick for birds or alligators to nest in. It also dissolved oxygen in the peat, promoted algae, and prohibited growth of native invertebrates on the bottom of the food chain.\n\nAt the same time mercury was found in local fish at such high levels that consumption warnings were posted for fishermen. A Florida panther was found dead with levels of mercury high enough to kill a human. Scientists found that power plants and incinerators using fossil fuels were expelling mercury into the atmosphere, and it fell as rain or dust during droughts. The naturally occurring bacteria that reduce sulfur in the Everglades ecosystem were transforming the mercury into methylmercury, and it was bioaccumulating through the food chain. Stricter emissions standards helped lower mercury coming from power plants and incinerators, which in turn lowered mercury levels found in animals, though they continue to be a concern.\n\nThe Everglades Forever Act, introduced by Governor Lawton Chiles in 1994, was an attempt to legislate the lowering of phosphorus in Everglades waterways. The act put the South Florida Water Management District (SFWMD) and the Florida Department of Environmental Protection (DEP) in charge of testing and enforcing low phosphorus levels: 10 parts per billion (ppb) (down from 500 ppb in the 1980s). The SFWMD built Stormwater Treatment Areas (STAs) near sugarcane fields where water leaving the EAA flows into ponds lined with lime rock and layers of peat and calcareous periphyton. Testing has shown this method to be more effective than previously anticipated, bringing levels from 80 ppb to 10 ppb.\n\nAs a center for trade and travel between the U.S., the Caribbean, and South America, South Florida is especially vulnerable to invasive species, or species of plants and animals that adapt aggressively to conditions in the Everglades, allowing them to reproduce faster and grow larger than they would naturally in their native environments. Approximately 26% of all species of fish, reptiles, birds, and mammals in South Florida are exotic—more than in any other part of the U.S.—and the region hosts one of the highest numbers of exotic plant species in the world. Controlling invasive species in 1,700,000 acres (6,900 km) of infested land in South Florida costs authorities about $500 million a year.\n\nThe Everglades hosts 1,392 exotic plant species actively reproducing in the region, outnumbering the 1,301 species considered native to South Florida. The melaleuca tree (\"Melaleuca quinquenervia\") takes water in greater amounts than other trees. Melaleucas grow taller and more densely in the Everglades than in their native Australia, making them unsuitable as nesting areas for birds with wide wingspans. They also choke out native vegetation. More than $2 million has been spent on keeping them out of Everglades National Park.\n\nBrazilian pepper, or Florida holly (\"Schinus terebinthifolius\"), has also wreaked havoc on the Everglades, exhibiting a tendency to spread rapidly and to crowd out native species of plants as well as to create inhospitable environments for native animals. It is especially difficult to eradicate and is readily propagated by birds, which eat its small red berries. The Brazilian pepper problem is not exclusive to the Everglades; neither is the water hyacinth \"(Eichhornia crassipes)\", which is a widespread problem in Florida's waterways, a major threat to endemic species, and is difficult and costly to eradicate. The Old World climbing fern (\"Lygodium microphyllum\") may be causing the most harm to restoration as it blankets areas thickly, making it impossible for animals to pass through. It also climbs up trees and creates \"fire ladders\", allowing parts of the trees to burn that would otherwise remain unharmed.\n\nMany pets have escaped or been released into the Everglades from the surrounding urban areas. Some find the conditions quite favorable and have established self-sustaining populations, competing for food and space with native animals. Many tropical fish have been released, but blue tilapias (\"Oreochromis aureus\") cause damage to shallow waterways by creating large nests and consuming aquatic plants that protect native young fish.\n\nNative to southern Asia, the Burmese python (\"Python molurus bivittatus\") is a relatively new invasive species in the Everglades. This species can grow up to long, and they compete with alligators for the top of the food chain. Florida wildlife officials speculate that escaped pythons have begun reproducing in an environment for which they are well-suited. In Everglades National Park alone, agents removed more than 2,000 Burmese pythons from the park . Federal authorities banned four species of exotic snakes, including the Burmese python, in 2012. The pythons are believed to be responsible for drastic decreases in the populations of some mammals within the park.\n\nThe invasive species that causes the most damage to bird populations is the cat \"(Felis catus)\", both domestic and feral. Cats that are let outside live close to suburban populations and have been estimated to number 640 per square mile. In such close numbers in historic migratory areas, they have devastating effects on migratory bird populations.\n\nAlthough scientists made headway in decreasing mercury and phosphorus levels in water, the natural environment of South Florida continued to decline in the 1990s, and life in nearby cities reflected this downturn. To address the deterioration of the Miami metropolitan area, Governor Lawton Chiles commissioned a report on the sustainability of the area. In 1995, Chiles published the commission's findings in a report that related the degradation of the Everglades ecosystems to the lower quality of life in urban areas. The report noted past environmental abuses that brought the state to a position to make a decision. Not acting to improve the South Florida ecosystem, the report predicted, would inevitably cause further and intolerable deterioration that would harm local tourism by 12,000 jobs and $200 million annually, and commercial fishing by 3,300 jobs and $52 million annually. Urban areas had grown beyond their capacities to sustain themselves. Crowded cities were facing problems such as high crime rates, traffic jams, severely overcrowded schools, and overtaxed public services; the report noted that water shortages were ironic, given the of rain the region received annually.\n\nIn 1999, an evaluation of the C&SF was submitted to Congress as part of the Water Development Act of 1992. The seven-year report, called the \"Restudy\", cited indicators of harm to the ecosystem: a 50 percent reduction in the original Everglades, diminished water storage, harmful timing of water releases from canals and pumping stations, an 85 to 90 percent decrease in wading bird populations over the past 50 years, and the decline of output from commercial fisheries. Bodies of water including Lake Okeechobee, the Caloosahatchee River, St. Lucie estuary, Lake Worth Lagoon, Biscayne Bay, Florida Bay and the Everglades reflected drastic water level changes, hypersalinity, and dramatic changes in marine and freshwater ecosystems. The Restudy noted the overall decline in water quality over the past 50 years was due to loss of wetlands that act as filters for polluted water. It predicted that without intervention the entire South Florida ecosystem would deteriorate. Water shortages would become common and some cities would have annual water restrictions.\n\nThe Restudy came with a plan to stop the declining environmental quality, and this proposal was to be the most expensive and comprehensive ecological repair project in history. The Comprehensive Everglades Restoration Plan (CERP) proposed more than 60 construction projects over 30 years to store water that was being flushed into the ocean, in reservoirs, underground aquifers, and abandoned quarries; add more Stormwater Treatment Areas to filter water that flowed into the lower Everglades; regulate water released from pumping stations into local waterways and improve water released to Everglades National Park and Water Conservation Areas; remove barriers to sheetflow by raising the Tamiami Trail and destroying the Miami Canal, and reuse wastewater for urban areas. The cost estimate for the entire plan was $7.8 billion, and in a bipartisan show of cooperation, CERP was voted through Congress with an overwhelming margin. It was signed by President Bill Clinton on December 11, 2000.\n\nSince its signing, the State of Florida reports that it has spent more than $2 billion on the various projects. More than of Stormwater Treatment Areas have been constructed to filter of phosphorus from Everglades waters. An STA spanning was constructed in 2004, making it the largest manmade wetland in the world. Fifty-five percent of the land necessary to acquire for restoration has been purchased by the State of Florida, totaling . A plan to hasten the construction and funding of projects was put into place, named \"Acceler8\", spurring the start of six of eight large construction projects, including that of three large reservoirs. However, federal funds have not been forthcoming; CERP was signed when the U.S. government had a budget surplus, but since then deficits have renewed, and two of CERP's major supporters in Congress retired. According to a story in \"The New York Times\", state officials say the restoration is lost in a maze of \"federal bureaucracy, a victim of 'analysis paralysis'\". CERP still remains controversial as the projects slated for Acceler8, environmental activists note, are those that benefit urban areas, and regions in the Everglades in desperate need of water are still being neglected, suggesting that water is being diverted to make room for more people in an already overtaxed environment.\n\nA series of biennial reports from the U.S. National Research Council have reviewed the progress of CERP. The fourth report in the series, released in 2012, found that little progress has been made in restoring the core of the remaining Everglades ecosystem; instead, most project construction so far has occurred along its periphery. The report noted that to reverse ongoing ecosystem declines, it will be necessary to expedite restoration projects that target the central Everglades, and to improve both the quality and quantity of the water in the ecosystem. To better understand the potential implications of the current slow pace of progress, the report assessed the current status of ten Everglades ecosystem attributes, including phosphorus loads, peat depth, and populations of snail kites, birds of prey that are endangered in South Florida. Most attributes received grades ranging from C (degraded) to D (significantly degraded), but the snail kite received a grade of F (near irreversible damage). The report also assessed the future trajectory of each ecosystem attribute under three restoration scenarios: improved water quality, improved hydrology, and improvements to both water quality and hydrology, which helped highlight the urgency of restoration actions to benefit a wide range of ecosystem attributes and demonstrate the cost of inaction. Overall, the report concluded that substantial near-term progress to address both water quality and hydrology in the central Everglades is needed to reverse ongoing degradation before it is too late.\n\nAt least three airplanes have crashed in the Everglades, including: Northwest Airlines Flight 705 (in 1963), Eastern Air Lines Flight 401 (1972), and ValuJet Flight 592 (1996).\n\nIn 2008, the State of Florida agreed to buy U.S. Sugar and all of its manufacturing and production facilities for an estimated $1.7 billion. Florida officials indicated they intended to allow U.S. Sugar to process for six more years before dismissing its employees and dismantling the plant. The area, which includes of land, would then be rehabilitated and water flow from Lake Okeechobee would be restored. In November 2008, the agreement was revised to offer $1.34 billion, allowing sugar mills in Clewiston to remain in production. Critics of the revised plan say that it ensures sugarcane will be grown in the Everglades for at least another decade. Further research is being done to address the continuing production of sugarcane in the Everglades to minimize phosphorus runoff.\n\nEverglades restoration received $96 million of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009. As a result of the stimulus package, a mile-long (1.6 km) bridge to replace the Tamiami Trail, a road that borders Everglades National Park to the north and has blocked water from reaching the southern Everglades, was begun by the Army Corps of Engineers in December 2009. The next month work began to reconstruct the C-111 canal, east of the park that historically diverted water into Florida Bay. Governor Charlie Crist announced the same month that $50 million of state funds would be earmarked for Everglades restoration. In May 2010, of bridges were proposed to be added to the Tamiami Trail.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2497256", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2497256", "title": "Flags of German states", "text": "Flags of German states\n\nThe flags of the German states may come in different variants. All states have a (\"flag of the state\", sometimes known as a \"civil flag\"), that may be used by anyone. Some states have another variant, often showing the state coat of arms, called the (\"service flag\" or \"government flag\", sometimes known as a \"state flag\"), normally for use by official government offices only. In addition to these flags, in a few states there are variants exclusively for the state senate, or for state-operated ships. In some cases there are specific flags for high-ranking officials, mainly used as car flags. Frequently, the flags are used in vertical variants.\n\n"}
{"id": "3458408", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3458408", "title": "Following the Equator", "text": "Following the Equator\n\nFollowing the Equator (sometimes titled \"More Tramps Abroad\") is a non-fiction social commentary in the form of a travelogue published by Mark Twain in 1897.\n\nTwain was practically bankrupt in 1894 due to investing heavily into the failed Paige Compositor. In an attempt to extricate himself from debt of $100,000 (equivalent of about $2.5 million in 2010) he undertook a tour of the British Empire in 1895 at age 60, a route chosen to provide numerous opportunities for lectures in English.\n\nAmerican songwriter Jimmy Buffett mentions the book in his songs “Take Another Road” and “That’s What Living Is To Me”.\n\nThe book is a social commentary, critical of racism towards blacks, Asians, and Indigenous groups; oppressive imperialism in the British Empire; and religious intolerance through missionary efforts.\n\nAlthough this social commentary is the great import of the book, it is notable that Twain also included a number of fictional stories in the body of what is otherwise a non-fiction work. In particular, the story of how Cecil Rhodes made his fortune -- by finding a newspaper in the belly of a shark -- and the story of how a man named Ed Jackson made good in life out of a fake letter of introduction to Cornelius Vanderbilt, were anthologized in Charles Neider (ed) \"The Complete Short Stories of Mark Twain\", (Doubleday, 1957) where they are presented as fiction.\n\n"}
{"id": "58045892", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58045892", "title": "Hamad Bin Abdulla Road", "text": "Hamad Bin Abdulla Road\n\nHamad Bin Abdulla Road is the main road running east-west through Fujairah City, Emirate of Fujairah, United Arab Emirates.\n\nHamad Bin Abdulla Road is a hub for the business and commercial centre of Fujairah City. It is lined with tall office buildings (e.g., Fujairah Tower) and hotels. The main mosque, the large white Sheikh Zayed Mosque, the second largest in the UAE, is to the north of the road. The LuLu Mall Fujairah is to the south. The University of Fujairah is located on the road.\n\nAt the western end, the road continues as the Sheikh Khalifa Bin Zayed Expressway (aka Sheikh Khalifa Highway), a dual carriageway road, linking Fujairah City with Dubai and other parts of the UAE. At the eastern end, the road reaches the Fujairah Corniche and the Al Corniche Road, going north and south close to the seafront. Near this point are the Central Market and Fabric Souk, and the Fish & Vegetable Market.\n"}
{"id": "29341021", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29341021", "title": "Helton Creek Falls", "text": "Helton Creek Falls\n\nHelton Creek Falls is a series of two waterfalls located within the Chattahoochee National Forest in Union County, Georgia. \n"}
{"id": "318039", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=318039", "title": "ISO 3166-2:MY", "text": "ISO 3166-2:MY\n\nISO 3166-2:MY is the entry for Malaysia in ISO 3166-2, part of the ISO 3166 standard published by the International Organization for Standardization (ISO), which defines codes for the names of the principal subdivisions (e.g., provinces or states) of all countries coded in ISO 3166-1.\n\nCurrently for Malaysia, ISO 3166-2 codes are defined for 3 federal territories and 13 states.\n\nEach code consists of two parts, separated by a hyphen. The first part is , the ISO 3166-1 alpha-2 code of Malaysia. The second part is two digits:\n\nSubdivision names are listed as in the ISO 3166-2 standard published by the ISO 3166 Maintenance Agency (ISO 3166/MA).\n\n\"Click on the button in the header to sort each column.\"\n\nThe following changes to the entry have been announced in newsletters by the ISO 3166/MA since the first publication of ISO 3166-2 in 1998:\n\nThe letters in the former codes are currently used in vehicle registration plates, except Sabah and Sarawak which use S and Q respectively.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36440728", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36440728", "title": "Index of Serbia-related articles", "text": "Index of Serbia-related articles\n\nThis page list topics related to Serbia.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12686065", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12686065", "title": "Johan Gustaf Renat", "text": "Johan Gustaf Renat\n\nJohan Gustaf Renat (1682–1744) was a Swedish soldier and cartographer. He is mainly known for his role in bringing detailed maps of Central Asia to Europe after several years in captivity.\n\nRenat was the son of Dutch Jewish immigrants to Sweden, who took Swedish nationality in 1681, the year before his birth.\n\nDuring the Great Northern War against Russia, he served in the army of Charles XII as a warrant officer (\"styckjunkare\") in the artillery. He was taken prisoner after the Battle of Poltava in 1709. In 1711 Renat was sent to Tobolsk where many Swedish officers were kept as prisoners of war. He entered Russian service on the condition of not fighting against Sweden. Renat helped produce maps of Siberia for the Russian government.\n\nIn 1716 Renat and other Swedish prisoners-of-war took part in 's expedition to explore the gold deposits around Lake Yamysh on the Irtysh River. The expedition was ambushed by a Dzungar force, and Renat spent the following seventeen years in Dzungar captivity.\n\nIn Dzungaria, Renat helped the khans Tsewang Rabtan and Galdan Tseren to organize their campaigns against Qing rule in Central Asia. Among other things, he organized an artillery regiment and helped the Dzungars to cast cannons.\n\nRenat also met a Swedish woman who was also a Dzungar captive. This was Brigitta Scherzenfeldt, who hailed from Scania. Twice widowed, she had married a German prisoner who had taken Russian service and been assigned to Siberia. Their convoy was seized by Dzungar raiders in 1716, who killed her husband. She later married Renat.\n\nIn 1733, Renat and his wife were allowed to leave. They returned the following year to Stockholm, accompanied with four Dzungar female servants, who were baptized when they arrived in Sweden. Renat's family bought a house in Gamla stan where they settled down. In 1739, Renat was promoted to the rank of captain in the Swedish army. The same year, he remarried the industrialist Elisabet Fritz.\n\nRenat brought two detailed maps of Central Asia back to Sweden. But these maps were left in relative obscurity for many years. In 1878, copies of the maps were discovered by the Swedish author August Strindberg, then an assistant librarian at the Swedish Royal Library. He sponsored their republication in Russia in 1881. A decade later the originals were discovered in the library of Uppsala University, where they are still held.\n\nStrindberg remained interested in the maps for many years.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47262232", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47262232", "title": "Kašinska Sopnica", "text": "Kašinska Sopnica\n\nKašinska Sopnica is a village in Croatia.\n"}
{"id": "54848517", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54848517", "title": "Koror City", "text": "Koror City\n\nKoror City is the largest city in Palau, home to about half of the country's population. It was formerly the capital until it was replaced by Ngerulmud in 2006.\n\nKoror City is twinned with:\n"}
{"id": "7464454", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7464454", "title": "Language geography", "text": "Language geography\n\nLanguage geography is the branch of human geography that studies the geographic distribution of language(s) or its constituent elements. There are two principal fields of study within the geography of language: \nLinguistic geography can also refer to studies of how people talk about the landscape. For example, toponymy is the study of place names. Landscape ethnoecology, also known as ethnophysiography, is the study of landscape ontologies and how they are expressed in language.\n\nMany studies in what is now called contact linguistics have researched the effect of language contact, as the languages or dialects (varieties) of peoples have interacted. This territorial expansion of language groups has usually resulted in the overlaying of languages upon existing speech areas, rather than the replacement of one language by another. An example could be sought in the Norman Conquest of England: Old French became the language of the aristocracy but Middle English remained the language of the majority of the population.\n\nLinguistic geography, as a field, is dominated by linguists rather than geographers. Charles W. J. Withers describes the difference as resulting from a focus on \"elements of language, and only then with their geographical or social variation, as opposed to investigation of the processes making for change in the extent of language areas.\" Peter Trudgill says, \"linguistic geography has been geographical only in the sense that it has been concerned with the spatial distribution of linguistic phenomena.\" Greater emphasis has been laid upon explanation rather than mere description of the patterns of linguistic change. That move has paralleled similar concerns in geography and language studies. \nSome studies have paid attention to the social use of language and to variations in dialect within languages in regard to social class or occupation. Regarding such variations, lexicographer Robert Burchfield notes that their nature \"is a matter of perpetual discussion and disagreement\" and notes that \"most professional linguistic scholars regard it as axiomatic that all varieties of English have a sufficiently large vocabulary for the expression of all the distinctions that are important in the society using it.\" He contrasts this with the view of the historian John Vincent, who regards such a view as\n\nBurchfield concludes, \"Resolution of such opposite views is not possible... future of dialect studies and the study of class-marked distinctions are likely to be of considerable interest to everyone.\"\n\nIn England, linguistic geography has traditionally focused upon rural English,rather than urban English. A common production of linguistic investigators of dialects is the shaded and dotted map showing to show where one linguistic feature ends and another begins or overlaps. Various compilations of these maps for England have been issued over the years, including Joseph Wright's \"English Dialect Dictionary\" (1896–1905), the \"Survey of English Dialects\" (1962-8), and \"The Linguistic Atlas of England\" (1978).\n\nMost geolinguistic organizations identify themselves as associations of linguists rather than of geographers. This includes the two oldest which both date to 1965 with \"Amici Linguarum\" (language friends) being founded by Erik V. Gunnemark and The American Society of Geolinguistics by Prof. Mario A. Pei. The research in geolinguistics which these organizations and others, which are more geographically oriented, promote is often interdisciplinary, being at times simultaneously both linguistic and geographic, and also being at times linked to other sub-disciplines of linguistics as well as going beyond linguistics to connect to sociology, anthropology, ethnology, history, demographics, political science, studies of cognition and communication, etc.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15015451", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15015451", "title": "Lick (stream)", "text": "Lick (stream)\n\nA lick is a small watercourse or an ephemeral stream. It ranks hydrologically between a rill and a stream.\n"}
{"id": "16878920", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16878920", "title": "List of Chilean ingredients", "text": "List of Chilean ingredients\n\nThis is a list of ingredients found in Chilean cuisine which are mostly those used in Mediterranean and Andean cuisine.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20068829", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20068829", "title": "List of Disney Channel (India) series", "text": "List of Disney Channel (India) series\n\nThis is a list of original programming by Disney Channel in India.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30308616", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30308616", "title": "List of Disney live-action shorts", "text": "List of Disney live-action shorts\n\nThis is a listing of live-action motion picture shorts produced by Walt Disney or The Walt Disney Company, from 1921 to the present. This list only includes shorts which were initially released as individual shorts, which excludes the shorts that were originally released as part of Disney features in the 1950s and later re-released as individual shorts. This list also does not include shorts that do not contain any original stock footage. This list includes shorts with both live action and animation only if the majority of the short contains live action. This list does not include any trailers as they are usually edited from the features they are supposed to promote.\n\nNote: Some of the \"Alice Comedies\" shorts were primarily live-action but for consistency's sake they are included on the list of Disney animated shorts.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20020791", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20020791", "title": "List of Japanese supercentenarians", "text": "List of Japanese supercentenarians\n\nJapanese supercentenarians are citizens, residents or emigrants from Japan who have attained or surpassed 110 years of age. , the Gerontology Research Group (GRG) had validated the longevity claims of 264 Japanese supercentenarians, most of them women. The oldest Japanese person currently alive is Kane Tanaka, born 2 January 1903, age . She is also the world's oldest living person. The oldest Japanese person on record was Nabi Tajima, who died on 21 April 2018 aged 117 years, 260 days. Japan was also home to the world's oldest man ever, Jiroemon Kimura, who lived 116 years and 54 days.\n\n was for a short time Japan's oldest living person and the world's oldest living man, from February to April 1999, and when he died the oldest Japanese man ever until being surpassed by Yukichi Chuganji on 30 September 2001. A former elementary school teacher and town assembly member, Ishizaki lived in Kansago, Ibaraki Prefecture, where he died of multiple organ failure on 29 April 1999 at the age of 112 years, 191 days.\n\n became the world's oldest living woman after the death of Mae Harrington on 29 December 2002, and the world's oldest living person after the death of Japanese man Yukichi Chuganji on 28 September 2003. On 31 October 2003, after Kamato Hongo's death, Kawate was recognized as the oldest living person in the world, though in fact, Kawate became the oldest living person in the world on 28 September 2003, because Kamato Hongo's record was revoked in 2012.\n\nA resident of Hiroshima, she worked on a farm until injuring her hands at the age of 99. In 1945, two days after the Atomic bombing of Hiroshima, she entered Hiroshima city in order to look for acquaintances. She was taken to a hospital shortly before her death aged 114 years, 182 days from pneumonia. Her death left Ramona Trinidad Iglesias-Jordan of Puerto Rico the oldest documented person in the world, though this was not recognized by Guinness World Records until 2004 (Charlotte Benkner of the U.S. had been given the title in the interim).\n\n is, at the age of , currently the world's oldest living man since the death of 113-year-old Spaniard Francisco Núñez Olivera on 30 January 2018.. Nonaka became the oldest living man in Japan upon the death of 112-year-old Masamitsu Yoshida on 29 October 2016.\n\nNonaka married Hatsuno Nonaka and had 5 children (of whom 2 are living as of April 2018). He has been running the family \"onsen\", which opened in 1905. He now spends most of his time in a wheelchair and credits his longevity with eating sweets and relaxing in the hot springs.\n"}
{"id": "4115402", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4115402", "title": "List of extinct languages of Africa", "text": "List of extinct languages of Africa\n\nThis is a list of extinct languages of Africa, languages which have undergone language death, have no native speakers and no spoken descendant. There are 52 Languages listed.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43358536", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43358536", "title": "List of fossiliferous stratigraphic units in the Falkland Islands", "text": "List of fossiliferous stratigraphic units in the Falkland Islands\n\nThis is a list of fossiliferous stratigraphic units in the Falkland Islands.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47249982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47249982", "title": "List of geological features on Pluto", "text": "List of geological features on Pluto\n\nThis is a list of named geological features on Pluto, identified by scientists working with data from the \"New Horizons\" spacecraft. The International Astronomical Union (IAU) has officially approved the first 14 names on 8 August 2017 (announced 7 September 2017), but most of the names listed on this page are still informal. The IAU has determined that names will be chosen from the following themes:\n\nA cavus is a hollow or steep-sided depression. One cavus has been identified on Pluto thus far; it is named after a mythological underworld. The following is a list of unofficial names chosen by the \"New Horizons\" team (not all of the names correspond with the themes listed above). Names that have been officially approved are labeled as such.\n\nA collis is a low hill. Plutonian colles are being named after spacecraft that operated in Earth orbit. The following is a list of unofficial names chosen by the \"New Horizons\" team (not all of the names correspond with the themes listed above). Names that have been officially approved are labeled as such.\n\nPlutonian craters are being named after scientists and other people associated with the study of Pluto. The following is a list of unofficial names chosen by the \"New Horizons\" team (not all of the names correspond with the themes listed above). Names that have been officially approved are labeled as such.\n\nA dorsum is a ridge. Plutonian dorsa are being named after underworlds in mythology. The following is a list of unofficial names chosen by the \"New Horizons\" team (not all of the names correspond with the themes listed above). Names that have been officially approved are labeled as such.\n\nA Fluctus is a terrain covered by outflow of liquid. Plutonian fluctūs are being named after travellers to the underworld. The following is a list of unofficial names chosen by the \"New Horizons\" team (not all of the names correspond with the themes listed above). Names that have been officially approved are labeled as such.\n\nA fossa is a ditch-like feature. Plutonian fossae are being named after figures associated with underworld myths. The following is a list of unofficial names chosen by the \"New Horizons\" team (not all of the names correspond with the themes listed above). Names that have been officially approved are labeled as such.\n\nA lacus is a \"lake\" or small plain. The following is a list of unofficial names chosen by the \"New Horizons\" team (not all of the names correspond with the themes listed above). Names that have been officially approved are labeled as such.\n\nA linea is an elongated marking. Plutonian lineae are being named after space probes. The following is a list of unofficial names chosen by the \"New Horizons\" team (not all of the names correspond with the themes listed above). Names that have been officially approved are labeled as such.\n\nA macula is a dark spot. Plutonian maculae are being named after underworld creatures from fiction and mythology. The following is a list of unofficial names chosen by the \"New Horizons\" team (not all of the names correspond with the themes listed above). Names that have been officially approved are labeled as such.\n\nA mons is a mountain. Plutonian montes (mountain ranges) are being named after explorers and adventurers. The following is a list of unofficial names chosen by the \"New Horizons\" team (not all of the names correspond with the themes listed above). Names that have been officially approved are labeled as such.\n\nA palus (literally \"swamp\") is a small plain. Paludes on Pluto are named after historic explorers. The following is a list of unofficial names chosen by the \"New Horizons\" team (not all of the names correspond with the themes listed above). Names that have been officially approved are labeled as such.\n\nA planum is a plateau or high plain. One (Sputnik Planum) was initially identified on Pluto; but it has since been recognized to be a planitia.\n\nA planitia is a low plain, distinct from plana as they are located on lower terrain. The following is a list of unofficial names chosen by the \"New Horizons\" team (not all of the names correspond with the themes listed above). Names that have been officially approved are labeled as such.\n\nA regio is a region geographically distinct from its surroundings. Plutonian regiones are being named after underworld spirits in fiction and mythology, or after scientists associated with the study of Pluto. The following is a list of unofficial names chosen by the \"New Horizons\" team (not all of the names correspond with the themes listed above). Names that have been officially approved are labeled as such. One such feature, the former Cthulhu Regio, is now considered to be a macula.\n\nA rupes is an escarpment. Plutonian rupēs are being named after explorers. The following is a list of unofficial names chosen by the \"New Horizons\" team (not all of the names correspond with the themes listed above). Names that have been officially approved are labeled as such.\n\nA terra is an extensive landmass. Plutonian terrae are being named after space probes. The following is a list of unofficial names chosen by the \"New Horizons\" team (not all of the names correspond with the themes listed above). Names that have been officially approved are labeled as such.\n\nA vallis is a valley. Plutonian valles are named after historic explorers. The following is a list of unofficial names chosen by the \"New Horizons\" team (not all of the names correspond with the themes listed above). Names that have been officially approved are labeled as such.\n\n"}
{"id": "860444", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=860444", "title": "List of heads of government of British Cameroons", "text": "List of heads of government of British Cameroons\n\nThis is a list of Heads of Government of British Cameroons\n\n"}
{"id": "31126483", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31126483", "title": "List of largest lakes of the United States by volume", "text": "List of largest lakes of the United States by volume\n\nThis article lists the largest lakes, natural and man-made, in the United States by volume -- the amount of water they contain under normal conditions. Volumes given for lakes shared with Canada and Mexico are for the total volume of the lake. Many lakes vary substantially in volume over time, especially man-made lakes, reservoirs, and lakes in arid areas. Capacity given is for normal or average lake level.\n\nNote: Volume estimates not available for Selawik and Naknek Lakes in Alaska. They would undoubtedly rank on this list if data available. Information other than otherwise noted from http://www.lakelubbers.com/, accessed 9 Mar 2011\n"}
{"id": "40853853", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40853853", "title": "List of people from Amsterdam", "text": "List of people from Amsterdam\n\nThis is a list of notable people from Amsterdam.\nThe following were born or adopted in Amsterdam. Some became famous after they moved away.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThese people were not born or adopted in Amsterdam but are or were well known for living there.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10747431", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10747431", "title": "Lomellina", "text": "Lomellina\n\nThe Lomellina (Western Lombard: Ümlína/Lümelína) is a geographical and historical area in the Pianura Padana (Po River's valley) of northern Italy, located in south-western Lombardy between the Sesia, Po and Ticino rivers. It is one of three areal divisions of the Province of Pavia.\n\nLomellina includes 58 \"comuni\" (municipalities), the most important today being Vigevano and Mortara; the name however derives from its ancient capital Lomello. The area is particularly renowned for its rice paddies: the crop has been cultivated here since the sixteenth century.\n\nIn ancient times Lomellina was inhabited by the Ligurian tribes of the Laevi, and the Marici (co-founders of Ticinum, the modern Pavia) and the Libici (founders of Vercelli). Later they were Romanized. Although crossed by an important road connecting Ticinum to Augusta Taurinorum (the modern Turin), the region seems not to have been intensively urbanized under the Romans, with the exception of the area of Vigevano.\n\nWith the fall of the Western Roman Empire and the arrival of the Lombards, who set their capital in Pavia, Lomellina acquired importance, with a comital dynasty (\"Conti di Lomello\") rising in Lomello. The city of Pavia conquered Lomello in 1146, and the area was later under the Visconti, as part of the Duchy of Milan.\n\nIn 1707, after the War of Spanish Succession, a part of Lomellina was conquered by the Piedmontese House of Savoy and made an autonomous province. The area of Vigevano and Robbio, called \"Contado di Vigevano\" and which had been autonomous since 1532, was also acquired by Piedmont in 1743.\n\nIn 1859 the administrative reform promoted by Urbano Rattazzi annexed Lomellina to the province of Pavia just conquered from Austria, becoming later part of the newly formed Kingdom of Italy.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33247729", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33247729", "title": "Manor", "text": "Manor\n\nA manor in English law is an estate in land to which is incident the right to hold a court termed court baron, that is to say a manorial court. The proper unit of tenure under the feudal system is the fee (or fief), on which the manor became established through the process of time, akin to the modern establishment of a \"business\" upon a freehold site. The manor is nevertheless often described as the basic feudal unit of tenure and is historically connected with the territorial divisions of the march, county, hundred, parish and township.\n\nThe legal theory of the origin of manors refers them to a grant from the crown of a fee from the monarch's allodial lands, as stated in the following extract from Perkins's \"Treatise\" on the laws of England:\n\n\"The beginning of a manor was when the king gave a thousand acres of land, or greater or lesser parcel of land, unto one of his subjects and his heirs, which tenure is knight service at the least. And the donee did perhaps build a mansion house upon parcel of the same land, and of 20 acres, parcel of that which remained, or of a greater or lesser parcel, before the statute of Quia emptores did enfeoff a stranger to hold of him and his heirs to plough 10 acres of land, parcel of that which remained in his possession, and did enfeoff another of another parcel thereof to go to war with him against the Scots etc., and so by continuance of time made a manor\".\n\nIt is still as the jurist Sir Joshua Williams terms it, a \"fundamental rule\" that all lands were originally derived from the crown and that the monarch is lord paramount mediate or immediate of all the land in the realm. A manor then arises when the holder of a parcel so granted or supposed to have been granted by the crown, and who is termed in relation thereto the Lord of the Manor, has in turn granted portions thereof to others who stand to him in the relation of tenants. Of the portion reserved by the lord for his own use, termed the demesne, part was occupied by villeins, with the duty of cultivating the rest for the lord's use. These were originally tenants at will and in a state of semi-serfdom but they became in course of time the copyhold tenants of the later law. It is of the essence of copyhold that it should be regulated by the custom of the manor, as evidenced in the manorial roll produced by the manorial court. Manors cannot be created at the present day because manorial courts cannot be established with any legal jurisdiction. Scriven stated:\n\n\"Length of time being of the very essence of a manor, such things as receive their perfection by the continuance of time come not within the compass of the king's prerogative\"\n\nThe effect of the statute of \"Quia Emptores\" (1290) was to make the creation of manors henceforward impossible, inasmuch as it enacted \"that upon all sales and feoffments of land the feoffee shall hold the same, not of his immediate feoffor, but of the chief lord of the fee of whom such feoffor himself held it\". The statute did not apply to a tenant-in-chief of the king, who might have alienated his land under a license. Accordingly, it is assumed that all existing manors are \"of a date prior to the statute of \"Quia Emptores\" except perhaps some which may have been created by the king's tenants-in-chief with license from the crown\". When a great baron had granted out smaller manors to others, the seignory of the superior baron was frequently termed an honour.\n\nAll land was differentiated by its legal status and by physical characteristics. The basic forms of tenure were: Freehold, Copyhold, Customary Freehold and Leasehold. The legal status of land in England and Wales has been simplified such that only Freehold and Leasehold land remains (although, since 2002, a new category, Commonhold, also exists).\n\n\n\nA manor was akin to the modern firm or business or other going concern. It was a productive unit, which required physical capital, in the form of land, buildings, equipment and draught animals such as ploughing oxen and labour in the form of direction, day-to-day management and a workforce. It was further similar in that its ownership could be transferred, with the necessary \"licence to alienate\" having been obtained from the overlord, as can the ownership of a modern company. The administration was self-contained and the new lord needed only to collect its net revenues to form his return on investment. The direction was ultimately provided by the manorial court, presided over by the lord's personal steward, whose members included the freehold tenants of the manor. The court itself appointed most of the lower manorial officers, which included the following:\nThe efficiency, productivity and thus profitability of a manor therefore depended on a mixture of qualities and interaction of location, micro-climate, natural resources, soil type, direction and labour. It was in the interest of all dwellers within the manor, to a greater or lesser degree, that it should be successful.\n\nThe manorial court had wide legal jurisdiction over the inhabitants of the manor, sometimes with the right to administer capital punishment, if the lord had obtained from the king the right of holding a court leet. Much of the law was specific to a particular manor, as developed by \"custom of the manor\" and as interpreted by the manorial court. Rights of appeal existed to the hundred court and the county court beyond that over which presided the county's sheriff.\n\nA \"free manor\" was an autonomous area, outside the jurisdiction, law and administrative control of the surrounding territory.\n\nEvery person who lived in medieval England was regarded as a member of a manor and was under the jurisdiction of a manorial court, unless a citizen of a borough (in certain generally urban towns), or a cleric, or a lord of the manor himself, or (failing sons) an heiress lady of the manor herself, who were subject to the primary jurisdiction of the king's court, if a tenant-in-chief, or of the county court, if a mesne (intermediate) lord. It was not permissible for a man to migrate from the manor of his birth except by arrangement with its authorities. The manor was typically, via its vestry, also the source of a needy family's charitable relief, which was at the discretion of the manorial court, according to the custom of each manor. An alien within a manor would not therefore be automatically entitled to any relief or protection (such as parish constables) offered by the lord to prevent crime. Merchants and travellers were in general only safe in traveling with costly hired protection or with protection in place from a local sheriff, particularly in remote and sparsely populated areas. Even in 1822, the book \"Rural Rides\" refers to frequent instances of robbery in rural areas.\n\n\nSee Lord of the Manor\n\nAny parish which is among the bulk formed in the medieval period (whether town or village, but not in old cores of cities) tended to share its name with the manor (which may or may not exist today). Such non-borough parishes have clerical jurisdiction over the same geographic territory over which the lord had jurisdiction through his manorial court.\n\nThe parish generally came into existence after the establishment of the manor, following the building of a church by the Lord of the Manor for the use of himself and his tenants, perhaps in consultation with the bishop within whose clerical jurisdiction the manor was situated. He gave permanently the parish church some of his land, the revenues from which thus were to support the priest and the maintenance of the church building. The lord of the manor retained the advowson, that is the right to select and appoint the parish priest, yet the parish was governed by the diocese within which it was situated, which also granted it the tithes to which it was legally entitled, which was a tax of one tenth of the produce of the manor. Outlying parts of many manors over time were forcibly lost by judgment or attainder by the sovereign, exchanged between neighbouring lords or sold to pay debts, and thus would change owner, but would almost never change parish.\n\nAs, over time, a manor's lands could grow and shrink (they could extend over several different parishes), many manors became virtually worthless and lost any pretence of having a lord or became entirely subsumed by another. Others could arise by the principal lord's special grant, approved by the sovereign of subinfeudation. Where such additional manors were created, the parish would then cover these, unless a new parish was also created.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38583461", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38583461", "title": "Mnemata", "text": "Mnemata\n\nMnemata is a \nlocality in Larnaca, Cyprus. An archaeological site named the Mnemata Site is located here. Over the site a supermarket now stands.\n\nThe area \"had been used as a cemetery from the beginning of the Iron Age until the Roman times\", and there were four cemeteries in its environs in 1989.\n\nThe site—at the western necropolis of the city-kingdom of Kition—\"that became known as the Agios Georgios cemetery, occupies the entire flat surface of the eminence an elevated land area or a hill\" at Mnemata.\n\n\"Mnemata\" means \"graves\".\n"}
{"id": "48593906", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48593906", "title": "Peter Carl Ludwig Schwarz", "text": "Peter Carl Ludwig Schwarz\n\nPeter Carl Ludwig Schwarz (Julian, O.S.: 23 May 1822, Danzig-Gdańsk – 17 September 1894; Gregorian, N.S.: 4 June 1822 - 29 September 1894, St. George's?; Buried: Tartu) (referred to mostly as Ludwig Schwarz), was a Baltic German astronomer of Imperial Russia, explorer, and professor of astronomy at the University of Dorpat honored with the Konstantin Medal of the Imperial Russian Geographical Society. Schwarz also was a recipient of the Demidov Prize of the Academy of Sciences of St. Petersburg in 1865 for his work in geodesy.\n\nFollowing assignment by Friedrich Georg Wilhelm Struve as a field expedition astronomer (1849-1853) to study the Amur River, astronomer Schwarz led (1854-1862) the East Siberian Expedition of 1855 which extensively explored unknown and unmapped territory in Eastern Siberia.\n\nThe Siberian expedition went into central Asia, southeastern Asia, and northern China. Some of the routes travelled were as long as 10,000 miles. Utilizing his prior Amur field knowledge of astronomy he would determine geographical positions of certain points (geodesy) for preparation of geographical maps. The information would later be used in planning the construction of the Trans-Siberian Railway systems and others in southeast Asia.\n\nThe volumes reporting the results of the expedition were published in 1864. The separate tomes concerning the vegetation and wildlife reports were prepared by the expedition's botanist and zoologist Gustav Radde.\n\nLudwig Schwarz served as the Director of Dorpat Observatory (now Tartu Observatory) from 1872 to 1891, succeeding Thomas Clausen who held the position from 1866 to 1872. Upon the retirement of Schwarz from the directorship on 1 September 1891 the position became the responsibility of Grigori Levitski who held it until 1908.\n\nDuring his tenure in later life he conducted studies of one third of the 10,000 celestial stars visible at Tartu.\n\nRadde's warbler, a leaf warbler bird that breeds in Siberia and winters in southeast Asia, bears a scientific name (Phylloscopus schwarzi) that commemorates Schwarz. The bird was described in 1863 by naturalist and fellow explorer Gustav Radde who served in the East Siberian Expedition of 1855 led by Schwarz.\n\nHis publications include:\n\nGerman:\n\n\nEnglish:\nGerman:\n\nEnglish:\n\nRussian:\n\n"}
{"id": "1656637", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1656637", "title": "Rheinfelden", "text": "Rheinfelden\n\nRheinfelden (, ) is a municipality in the canton of Aargau in Switzerland, seat of the district of Rheinfelden. It is located 15 kilometres east of Basel. The name means the fields of the Rhine, as the town is located on the Hochrhein. It is home to Feldschlösschen, the most popular beer in Switzerland. The city is across the river from Rheinfelden in Baden-Württemberg; the two cities were joined until Napoleon Bonaparte fixed the German–Swiss border on the Rhine in 1802 and are still socially and economically tied.\n\nThe old town of Rheinfelden lies on the left bank of the Rhine, where the river is divided into two arms by the \"Inseli\", a roughly long island. Downstream of the Inseli and the \"Rheinbrücke\", the river bottoms drops to about deep, creating a huge and deadly vortex, known as the \"St-Anna-Loch. Nearly east is the \"\".\n\nThe wooded, gently-rising foothills of the \"Tafeljura\" lie south of the town. These are the Steppberg (above sea level) and the \"Berg\" (), both in the south-east. Between these two hills lie the deeply incised valleys of the \"Magdenerbach\".\n\nRheinfelden has an area, , of . Of this area, or 20.7% is used for agricultural purposes, while or 50.0% is forested. Of the rest of the land, or 22.6% is settled (buildings or roads), or 6.7% is either rivers or lakes and or 0.1% is unproductive land.\n\nRheinfelden has an area, (as of the 2004/09 survey) of . Of this area, about 20.7% is used for agricultural purposes, while 50.0% is forested. Of the rest of the land, 22.6% is settled (buildings or roads) and 6.7% is unproductive land. In the 2013/18 survey a total of or about 13.3% of the total area was covered with buildings, an increase of over the 1982 amount. Over the same time period, the amount of recreational space in the municipality increased by and is now about 3.43% of the total area. Of the agricultural land, is used for orchards and vineyards, is fields and grasslands. Since 1982 the amount of agricultural land has decreased by . Over the same time period the amount of forested land has increased by . Rivers and lakes cover in the municipality.\n\nThe highest point () is located on \"Berg\", the lowest point () is on the Rhine. Neighbouring cities are Kaiseraugst to the west, Olsberg to the south-west, Magden to the south and Möhlin to the east (all in the Aargau); over the river in Germany lies Rheinfelden, Baden-Württemberg.\n\nThe area around Rheinfelden was already settled in the Middle Stone Age, around 10,000 years before the present day. At that time, people lived in the \"Hermitage\", a small natural cave next to the current highway. In the year 45 BC, a few kilometres further west, the settlement Augusta Raurica was founded, the first Roman town in Switzerland, near modern Kaiseraugst. In the plains at Rheinfelden was then a large estate. Towards the end of the 4th century a border fort was constructed at the western settlement.\nRheinfelden is first mentioned about 851 as \"Rifelt\" and in the first half of the 12th century it was called \"Rinfelden\". In the second half of the 10th century, the entire Fricktal area—the Frick valley, a finger of land in northwestern Switzerland east of present-day Basel, between the Jura Mountains to the south, and the High Rhine border with present-day Germany to the north—was within Kingdom of Burgundy. At that time, Rheinfelden was granted to the von Wetterau family. They later adopted the title of Count of Rheinfelden. The Rheinfeldens built a fortress, \"Stein\", on the strategically located island; a riverbank settlement stood at the \"Altenburg\". The last of this comital line was Rudolf of Rheinfelden, Duke of Swabia (1057–79) and German antiking (1077–80) during the Investiture Controversy.\n\nWhen Rudolf died on October 15, 1080 in Merseburg, his territories were inherited by Berthold II of Zähringen.but the town went to his son Otto and his family the von Wetter's. Berhold's second son, Conrad, awarded market rights to the city, making it the oldest Zähringerstadt in Switzerland and the oldest city in the Aargau; in 1150 he also had the first bridge built across the Rhine, between Konstanz and Strasbourg. In 1218, Berthold V died without issue. In 1225, Rheinfelden gained \"Reichsfreiheit\" to become an Imperial City.\n\nA little over a century later, in 1330, the city pledged itself to the Habsburgs, becoming a part of Further Austria. In 1445, when the Habsburgs were fighting the Old Zürich War, insurgents destroyed the castle on the \"Inseli\", due to the city's allegiance with Basel. After a siege lasting several months, Rheinfelden was returned to Austrian subjugation in 1449. After the Waldshut War from 1468, all of Fricktal Burgundy pledged to the Habsburgs. After the Burgundians were beaten by the Old Swiss Confederacy in the Burgundian Wars, Rheinfelden land, not Title, was restored to Austria in 1477.\n\nDuring the 17th century, there was very little time during which the city enjoyed peace. During the Rappenkrieg, a peasant uprising that lasted from 1612 until 1614, the city was unsuccessfully besieged but devastated. Between 1633 and 1638 the Thirty Years' War reached Fricktal, where Rheinfelden played an important role. On 15 July 1633, Swedish and French troops devastated the city. On 5 February 1638, the city was besieged by Protestant troops under the command of Bernhard of Saxe-Weimar. On 28 February the Battle of Rheinfelden began, as the city was attacked by numerically-superior Imperial and Bavarian troops under the command of Johann von Werth and Federico Savelli. The Protestants lost this encounter and withdrew. Bernhard brought them weapons, but in the second action, on 3 March, they were victorious, as he and his men unexpectedly re-appeared on the battlefield; both Savelli and Werth were captured.\n\nBy the end of the Thirty Years' War, the Austrians had built a fortress on the island to secure the southwestern border of the Breisgau. In 1678, French troops under the command of François de Créquy fired at the city. In 1745, during the War of the Austrian Succession, the French made a fortress on the same ground and also blasted a portion of the city wall. On 17 July 1796 Rheinfelden was again occupied and looted by the French.\n\nAs a result of the Treaty of Campo Formio in 1797, the Fricktal became a French protectorate, forming the front line between the French Revolutionary and the Austrian troops in the War of the Second Coalition. On 20 February 1802 Rheinfelden was made a district capital of the newly created Canton of Fricktal, (Principality of Frickgau), joining the Helvetic Republic in August, the point at which the city became decisively Swiss. After the removal of the governor Sebastian Fahrländer at the end of September 1802, the seat of the cantonal government was relocated here from Laufenburg. With the beginning of the \"Reichsdeputationshauptschluss\" (the German Mediatisation), Napoleon Bonaparte dissolved the canton of Fricktal. Since 19 March 1803, Rheinfelden has been the capital of a district of the same name, in the canton of Aargau. With the \"Reichsdeputationshauptschluss\", the remaining (German) parts of the city lost their independence to the Grand Duchy of Baden, becoming Rheinfelden, Germany.\n\n\nThe blazon of the municipal coat of arms is \"Barry of Six Or and Gules with three Mullets of the first.\"\n\nRheinfelden has a population () of , 27.6% of the population are foreign nationals. Over the last 10 years (1997–2007) the population has changed at a rate of 6.1%. Most of the population () speaks German (82.9%), with Italian being second most common (3.8%) and Serbo-Croatian being third (2.0%).\n\nThe age distribution, , in Rheinfelden is; 1,031 children or 9.1% of the population are between 0 and 9 years old and 1,173 teenagers or 10.4% are between 10 and 19. Of the adult population, 1,418 people or 12.6% of the population are between 20 and 29 years old. 1,652 people or 14.6% are between 30 and 39, 1,904 people or 16.9% are between 40 and 49, and 1,544 people or 13.7% are between 50 and 59. The senior population distribution is 1,260 people or 11.2% of the population are between 60 and 69 years old, 790 people or 7.0% are between 70 and 79, there are 441 people or 3.9% who are between 80 and 89,and there are 77 people or 0.7% who are 90 and older.\n, there were 682 homes with 1 or 2 persons in the household, 2,876 homes with 3 or 4 persons in the household, and 1,250 homes with 5 or more persons in the household. , there were 4,953 private households (homes and apartments) in the municipality, and an average of 2.1 persons per household. there were 958 single family homes (or 15.7% of the total) out of a total of 6,087 homes and apartments. There were a total of 86 empty apartments for a 1.4% vacancy rate. , the construction rate of new housing units was 2.8 new units per 1000 residents.\n\nIn the 2007 federal election the most popular party was the SP which received 27.64% of the vote. The next three most popular parties were the SVP (26.15%), the FDP (16.05%) and the CVP (11.13%). In the federal election, a total of 2,934 votes were cast, and the voter turnout was 42.9%.\n\nThe historical population is given in the following table:\nThe entire old town of Rheinfelden is designated as part of the Inventory of Swiss Heritage Sites. There are seven sites in Rheinfelden that are listed as Swiss heritage sites of national significance. Two religious buildings are on the list, the Christian Catholic collegiate church of St. Martin and the \"Johanniter\" Chapel at Johannitergasse 70. Three fortifications are on the list; the \"Heimenholz\" and the \"Pferrichgraben\" which were both part of the old Roman era Rhine fortications and the entire medieval city wall. The last two buildings on the list are the Feldschlösschen brewery at Feldschlösschenstrasse 34 and the former \"Gasthof\" (combination hotel and restaurant) zum goldenen Adler at Obertorplatz 4.\n\n, Rheinfelden had an unemployment rate of 3.83%. , there were 40 people employed in the primary economic sector and about 9 businesses involved in this sector. 1,313 people are employed in the secondary sector and there are 86 businesses in this sector. 4,420 people are employed in the tertiary sector, with 432 businesses in this sector.\n\nFrom the , 3,858 or 36.1% were Roman Catholic, while 3,520 or 33.0% belonged to the Swiss Reformed Church. Of the rest of the population, there were 285 individuals (or about 2.67% of the population) who belonged to the Christian Catholic faith.\n\nIn Rheinfelden about 73.6% of the population (between age 25-64) have completed either non-mandatory upper secondary education or additional higher education (either university or a \"Fachhochschule\"). Of the school age population (), there are 667 students attending primary school, there are 251 students attending secondary school, there are 386 students attending tertiary or university level schooling, and there are 18 students who are seeking a job after school in the municipality.\n\nRheinfelden is home to the \"Stadtbibliothek Rheinfelden\" library. The library has () 16,442 books or other media, and loaned out 58,291 items in the same year. It was open a total of 250 days with average of 30 hours per week during that year.\n\n"}
{"id": "4467178", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4467178", "title": "Rui Faleiro", "text": "Rui Faleiro\n\nRui (Ruy) Faleiro was a Portuguese cosmographer, astrologer, and astronomer who was the principal scientific organizer behind Magellan's circumnavigation of the world.\n\nBorn in Covilhã, Kingdom of Portugal, at the end of the fifteenth century, Faleiro and his brother Francisco Faleiro, also a cosmographer, served the Spanish king Charles I in Seville. Faleiro, one of the first to apply the most rigorously scientific method of determining latitude and longitude, had earlier served John II of Portugal and his successor, Manuel I of Portugal.\n\nFaleiro was certain that south of the \"Terras de Vera Cruz\" (i.e. Brazil), at 40 degrees latitude, there was an Atlantic passage that led to the South Seas. The sought-after Spice Islands would, by Faleiro's calculations, fall on the Spanish side of the line of Tordesillas.\n\nThe merchant Christopher de Haro helped Faleiro and Magellan present their proposal before the Spanish royal counselors.\n\nFaleiro planned to accompany Magellan on his voyage around the world. However, it is said that on the evening prior to embarkation, Faleiro worked out his own horoscope for the voyage. The stars predicted a violent death. Consequently, he remained behind. Other sources claim he went mad before the voyage, and thus did not join the expedition.\n\n"}
{"id": "15308179", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15308179", "title": "Telephone numbers in Botswana", "text": "Telephone numbers in Botswana\n\nFixed line numbers are seven digits long in a closed telephone numbering plan, with the geographical area being indicated by the first two or three digits. There are no area codes in Botswana.\n\nThe NSN length is seven digits for fixed lines, and eight digits for VoIP and mobile ranges.\n\nUntil the 1990s, calls to Botswana could be made from South Africa using the regional code 0192.\n\nMobile numbers are eight digits long, with the first two digits indicating the network operator.\n\n"}
{"id": "7989100", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7989100", "title": "The Lions (peaks)", "text": "The Lions (peaks)\n\nThe Lions are a pair of pointed peaks (West Lion – ; East Lion – ) along the North Shore Mountains in Metro Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada. They can be seen from much of the Greater Vancouver area, as far as Robert Burnaby Park in East Burnaby, south to parts of Surrey, and from the west on the Howe Sound Islands and the Sunshine Coast. Along with the Lions Gate Bridge named in their honour, these twin summits have become one of the most recognizable Vancouver landmarks. The city's BC Lions CFL football team is also named in their honour. Lions Gate Entertainment which was founded in Vancouver in July, 1997 is also named for the peaks.\n\nThe Lions are composed of hornblende diorite, the oldest plutonic rock on the West Coast of Canada.\n\nHikers can climb up to the ridge between the East and West Lion peaks using either the Binkert Trail leading up from Lions Bay, or the Howe Sound Crest Trail. The Binkert Trail, named after Paul Binkert of the British Columbia Mountaineering Club, is one of the most popular in the Lower Mainland. Hiking to the ridge from Lions Bay takes approximately four hours and gains in elevation. Most hikers stop there as both the East and West Lion peaks require rock climbing equipment and expertise. The East Lion is out-of-bounds for climbing as it is located in the Greater Vancouver watershed.\n\nAccording, to an article by Steven Threndyle in \"The Greater Vancouver Book\", \"the earliest recorded climb of the West Lion in 1889 happened almost by accident. A group of hunters following a herd of goats found themselves at the top with no place to go but down. The hunting party was guided by Squamish First Nations Chief Joe Capilano. One of the members of the hunting team was Doctor Henry Bell-Irving, who asked Chief Capilano if he could time one of the chief's young natives to see how long it would take him to run from the base of the West Lion to the summit. The youth stripped completely naked, made the round trip ascent and descent in under 20 minutes.\n\nWith its steep granitic face, the East Lion was believed to be impossible to scale. That did not deter John Latta and his two brothers from setting out to climb the East Lion in 1903. Hearing that climbers often used ropes for mountaineering ascents, they packed one along but actually had no idea of how to use it. Their technique was to grasp the small shrubs and bushes growing out of the cracks in the rock. The Latta brothers also climbed the West Lion on their way out.\n\nThe Indigenous Squamish people named these two prominent peaks \"Ch'ich'iyúy Elxwíkn\" (translates as 'Twin Sisters'). These mountains remain sacred for their legal marker of a peace treaty, family lineage histories, and spiritual value. The two peaks were transformed by the Sky Brothers, or \"Transformers\", after twin sisters that had married with Haida twins created the path for the war to end between the Squamish and Haida people. The families that made the Peace Treaty and married together still live in the Squamish and Haida Nations. Sometime around 1890, Judge John Hamilton Gray proposed that Canada rename the mountain peaks to lions \"couchant\" from heraldry.\n\n"}
{"id": "2038309", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2038309", "title": "Tidal diamond", "text": "Tidal diamond\n\nTidal diamonds are symbols on British admiralty charts that indicate the direction and speed of tidal streams.\n\nThe symbols consist of a letter of the ISO basic Latin alphabet in a rhombus, printed in purple ink. On any particular chart each tidal diamond will have a unique letter starting from \"A\" and continuing alphabetically.\n\nSomewhere on the chart, generally on land, will be a \"Tidal Diamond table\". This contains a grid of thirteen rows and three columns for each Diamond. The rows are the hours of the tidal cycle showing the 6 hours before high water, high water itself and the 6 hours after high water. The columns show the bearing of the tidal stream and its speed, in knots, at both spring tide and neap tide. The times on the table are related to the high water of the standard port displayed on the table.\n\nAn alternative to a tidal diamond is a tidal atlas which are often more accurate and easier to use (if available).\n"}
{"id": "6243858", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6243858", "title": "Ural Ocean", "text": "Ural Ocean\n\nThe Ural Ocean (also called the Uralic Ocean) was a small, ancient ocean that was situated between Siberia and Baltica. The ocean formed in the Late Ordovician epoch, when large islands from Siberia collided with Baltica, which was then part of the minor supercontinent of Euramerica. The islands also caused Ural Ocean's precursor, Khanty Ocean to close. By the Devonian Period, however, Ural Ocean begins to shrink because the Siberian continent and Kazakhstania microcontinent were closing in to Baltica. In the Latest Devonian to Mississippian periods, Ural Ocean became a seaway. Until the three collided in the Carboniferous, it created the Ural Mountains, completely closing the ocean, and forming the Pangaea supercontinent.\n\n"}
{"id": "18797834", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18797834", "title": "Vehicle registration plates of Brunei", "text": "Vehicle registration plates of Brunei\n\nLicense plates are displayed on all motorized road vehicles in Brunei, as required by law. The issue of license plates is regulated and administered by the Brunei Land Transport Department. All vehicles must also display two of the same license plates numbers of the same colours at the front and rear of the vehicles. All vehicle license plates in Brunei, other than those issued to royalty, diplomats and taxis (see below), have white characters on a black background, regardless of the vehicle type.\n\nThe most common form of Brunei licence plates, in use since the introduction of motorised vehicles in the country's British colonial era, typically begin with one or more letters followed by up to four numerical digits with no leading zeros. Thus, the configuration of a common Brunei number plate may be in the form of \"BB 1234\". Brunei number plates bears similarity to Malaysian state of Selangor and Kedah number plates which also begin with \"B\" and \"K\". \n\nThe sequence of licenced numbers, since 1 January 1984, issued begins with \"xA 1\" to \"xY 9999\". \"x\" is either \"B\" for cars registered with the Brunei-Muara Land Transport Department prior to 2006, or \"K\" for cars registered with the Kuala Belait Land Transport Department prior to 2006. After 2006, the letter \"K\" is assigned to all cars irrespective of the location that the cars are registered. The table below shows the possible combinations in use. Special cases are also listed in the table. Some letters are not used - these are listed in the (letters I, O and Z are not used to avoid ambiguity with numbers or other forms of local license plates). Distinctive font, size and serial sequences for Brunei number plates did not conflict with Malaysian state of Selangor and Kedah number plates.\n\nSince the leading 'B' plate finished, the Land Transport Department decided to restart the initial 'B' plate with 'BA', which consists of 3 letters and up to 4 numbers in the form of \"Bxx 1234\".\n\nThe format is used in virtually all classes of vehicles with engines, including, unless stated later:\n\nThe shape and size of Brunei license plates on vehicles, with the exception of motorcycles and scooters, are restricted to either 8.5 inch by 13.5 incy or 21 inch by 6 inch. Vehicular plates on motorcycles are usually smaller at either 4.25 inch by 6.75 inch or 8.5 inch by 3 inch. The size of the letters and numbers on the license plate is defined to be 3.5 inch by 2.5 inch by 0.625 inch for all vehicles except for motorcycles which is defined to be 1.75 inch 2.5 inch by 0.3125 inch.\n\nSome of the vehicles of the members of the Brunei Royal Family including the Sultan and the Crown Prince have unique license plates. Some of the plates have different colours (e.g. white on red), initials or fancy script.\n\nNumber 4 DC Indonesia\nXX-NN-DC where XX is a sequential number, NN = foreign mission number (e.g. USA = 9) and DC stands for diplomat's car. The plates have a white background with black letters and numbers.\n\nThe numbers for taxis and buses are the same as those for private vehicles, but the plates have a green background instead of black background instead. The letters and numbers on the plate is white in colour as with private vehicles.\n\nTemporary license plates are given to car dealerships to enable the car to be transported to the showroom, for test drives, etc. These plates have a white background with red letters and numbers.\n\nMilitary vehicles have a white letters/numbers on black background like any private registered cars. However, the numbering system is different from private vehicles as all military vehicles are registered with a MOD1111x number, where MOD stands for Ministry of Defence, 1111 is the number with any leading zeros being omitted and x is a letter denoting which branch of the military it is registered under.\n\nLTD Issues New Registration Numbers - last retrieved 13 June 2008\n"}
{"id": "50781714", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50781714", "title": "Virgin Radio Jakarta", "text": "Virgin Radio Jakarta\n\nPM2FAS (99.9 FM), on air name Virgin Radio Jakarta, is a radio station in Jakarta. It is the first Virgin Radio in Indonesia. It was launched on May 2016.\n\n99.9 FM frequency historically used for Universitas Indonesia campus radio back to 70s era, named RTC UI. RTC UI started broadcast regularly in early 1990s. Later after Reformation era, RTC moved to 89.35 FM, sharing frequency with Green Radio (now 89.2 Power FM). After regulation forcing all campus radio to use 107.7-108.0 FM canal, RTC moved to 107.9 MHz. \n\nIn 2004, Radio Draba (Dengan Radio Anda Bahagia) owned by Sys NS (deceased 2018) used this frequency, moving from 88.3 FM. This station's history is much unknown, beside regular broadcast of gamelan music. A radio chain from Bandung, 99ers, acquired this frequency in middle of 2000s. Sys NS might partially own this station, since speculations said that 99ers ceased broadcast because of expired contract.\n\n99ers gave up the radio chain in 2012. Soon, this frequency was popular for pirate radio broadcasting. In 2014, Sys NS took this station back, creating self-named radio station. Sys NS Radio played some oldies from various genre beside dangdut. Sys NS Radio broadcast in low power due to various reasons, one of them was pirate stations operating in 100.0 , 99.9 , and 99.8 MHz.\nEventually, Sys NS sold this station to Virgin Group (via MPG Media) in 2015. Virgin Radio Jakarta started test broadcast in September 2015, first airing in May 2016.\n\nIn May 2016, Virgin Radio started with only one jockey named Vari (from Oz Radio). And then in late June 2016, it added one more jockey named Stefany. Not long after that in late 2016, Virgin Radio held a DJ audition, and added one more jockey named Canti. Advertisement kept running in prime time hours (6am-10am), together with its sister station Smooth FM which abandoned morning program. \nIn 2017, Virgin Radio introduced its morning show named Breakfast Show with Vari and Canti as host, later Jerome replaced Canti in 2018. There are also other programs; Virgin Radio Music Morning with Canti, Virgin Radio Rush Hour with David, Virgin Radio Hot Hits with Stefany, and New Song Sunday, which used to be with Stefany, and in early 2018 is replaced with Aleef.\n\nThe hits are compiled based on both local taste and Top 100 Charts. The latest new releases should always be heard in this radio.\n\n"}
{"id": "9472849", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9472849", "title": "Western Australian Planning Commission", "text": "Western Australian Planning Commission\n\nThe Western Australian Planning Commission (WAPC) is a statutory authority of the Government of Western Australia that exists to coordinate planning for future land use and transport needs. It describes itself as Western Australia's \"peak representative body of land-use planning and development\". Its main role is to coordinate the various government agencies and other stakeholders in large infrastructure projects, to ensure that consideration is given to all interests and needs, including environmental, economic and community interests. It operates within the purview of the Department of Planning, which is responsible to the Minister for Planning.\n\nThe commission was originally called the Metropolitan Regional Planning Authority (MRPA) when it was established with David Carr as the chief planner. Shortly after that time, in 1965 Paul Ritter became the first city planner for Perth.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35659612", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35659612", "title": "Xavier Hommaire de Hell", "text": "Xavier Hommaire de Hell\n\nIgnace Xavier Morand Hommaire de Hell, often known as Xavier Hommaire de Hell, (24 November 1812 in Altkirch – 29 August 1848 in Isfahan) was a French geographer, engineer and traveller who carried out research in Turkey, southern Russia and Persia.\n\nAfter attending school in Altkirch and Dijon, Hommaire graduated as an engineer at the École des Mines in Saint-Étienne in 1833. There he met Adèle Hériot whom he married in 1834. In October 1835, he went Turkey where he coordinated the construction of a suspension bridge in Constantinople and a lighthouse on the Black Sea coast. In 1838, he arrived in southern Russia where he performed ethnographical research and geographical surveys. After he discovered coal resources along the Dnieper River, Czar Nicholas I awarded him the St Vladimir Cross. In 1842, while working on mining and road-building projects in Moldavia, he fell ill and returned to France. The following year he became a member of the \"Société de Géographie\" and the \"Société géologique\" and published a number of scientific papers. In 1844 the Société de Géographie awarded him their Gold Medal .\n\nWith the help of his wife, he embarked on \"Les steppes de la mer Caspienne\" (1844–1847) and in 1845 was awarded the Legion of Honour.\n\nAfter receiving a grant of 3,000 francs per year from the Ministry of Commerce and Agriculture, he left with his wife and the painter Jules Laurens on an extended journey to the Orient. In Turkey, he wrote reports on trade in the Bosporous and the Black Sea before proceeding to Persia. As he expected the journey to be difficult, he sent his wife back to France, travelling only with Laurens. In June 1847, they sailed to Trabzon, entering Persia through Diyarbakir and Lake Van that November. In February 1848, he finally arrived in Tehran after suffering from cholera and ophthalmia on the way. With the help of the French ambassador, he met Mohammad Shah Qajar who entrusted him with studying the feasibility of a canal bringing water from the River Shahrood to the Savojbolagh plain. Hommaire left for Mazandaran in May 1848 where he carried out surveys including a study of the Mosque of Varamin. He returned to Tehran to complete his research notes and then travelled to Isfahan. He arrived there seriously ill and died two weeks later on 29 August 1848. Laurens sent his notes back to his wife in Paris who completed a full account of his travels (1856–1860) subsidized by the French authorities.\n\n"}
