{"id": "38877699", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38877699", "title": "Accounting Chamber (Ukraine)", "text": "Accounting Chamber (Ukraine)\n\nAccounting Chamber () is an audit body of the Verkhovna Rada. The chamber's main purpose is to provide a control over use of funds of the State Budget of Ukraine (Article 98, Constitution of Ukraine). Role of the chamber in the Soviet times was performed by the Workers-Peasants Inspection of the USSR.\n\nThe composition of the Accounting Chamber includes the Chairman of the Accounting Chamber and members of the Accounting Chamber: First Deputy, Deputy Chairman, chief inspectors and the Secretary of the Accounting Chamber. All of them are also known as the Collegiate of the Accounting Chamber (or Board of the Accounting Chamber). The chamber has its own secretarial body, apparatus, and has a great degree of independence from other organs of the state administration. Members of the chamber cannot be members of parliament, government, employed in commercial activities, perform other work concurrently except for teaching, research and other creative activities during after hours.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23176583", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23176583", "title": "Assistant Deputy Director of National Intelligence for Open Source", "text": "Assistant Deputy Director of National Intelligence for Open Source\n\nThe Assistant Deputy Director of National Intelligence for Open Source (ADDNI/OS) is a senior-level position within the Office of the Director of National Intelligence, responsible for developing strategic direction, establishing policy and managing fiscal resources for Open Source Intelligence, providing oversight for the DNI Open Source Center, as well as document and media exploitation for the United States Intelligence Community.\n"}
{"id": "58060704", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58060704", "title": "Association of African Air Forces", "text": "Association of African Air Forces\n\nThe Association of African Air Forces (AAAF) is a voluntary and non-political organization; membership is open to Air Forces or their equivalent within the continent of Africa and the United States of America. The Association is operated with support from the United States Air Forces in Europe - Air Forces Africa (USAFE-AFAFRICA); a United States Air Force major command (MAJCOM) and a component command of both United States European Command (USEUCOM) and United States Africa Command (USAFRICOM). \n\nAAAF exists as a collaborative, decision-making organization to promote African-led air power initiatives that address trans-national threats, and efficient use of air resources to improve air operations across Africa. During the 5th annual African Air Chief Symposium, AAAF proceedings established that all signatory members \"have an equal voice within the association, and will be recognized as the air forces or the equivalent service of every other signing country.\" \n\n• A voluntary and non-political organization to improve and support air operations across Africa\n\n• Foster and strengthen the bonds of friendship, cooperation, collaboration and mutual support among its members\n\n• An African-led, voluntary, non-political, collaborative, decision-making organization that addresses transnational threats, increases effectiveness and efficient uses of air resources, and strengthen a climate of professional cooperation and trust.\n\nThe Charter of the AAAF was formally signed into agreement on Sept. 17, 2015 by the U.S. and three African nations during 2015 African Air Chief Symposium in Nouakchott, Mauritania. \n\nAccording to the Executive Summary following the 2015 African Air Chief Symposium:\n\n\"Air Force Chiefs of Staff and Deputy Chiefs of Staff from eighteen African countries participated in the event, which focused on continuing to build a network of airmen to increase the capabilities of airpower in Africa (p.1).\"\n\n\"At the conclusion of the symposium, several members signed the Charter for the Association of African Air Forces. Many of the Chiefs or representatives were unable to sign, but intend to sign in the future with approval from their national leadership.\"\nTo date, 19 African countries have signed the AAAF Charter. \nA function of the Association is to help assemble and advocate partnerships during the annual African Air Chief Symposium, hosted in a different country each year. The symposium serves as a cornerstone event to help members establish chairmen and liaison officers of AAAF. \n\nA new AAAF Chairman will be chosen during the next symposium to be held in conjunction with he Marrakesh Airshow in Morocco, October, 2018 . The event will afford the opportunity for additional African countries to sign the Charter and/or participate in discussions on air power in the continent. \n\n Benin Air Force\n"}
{"id": "28186231", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28186231", "title": "Attorney General of Virginia's climate science investigation", "text": "Attorney General of Virginia's climate science investigation\n\nThe Attorney General of Virginia's climate science investigation was a \"Civil Investigative Demand\" initiated in April 2010 by Virginia Attorney General Ken Cuccinelli for a wide range of records held by the University of Virginia related to five grant applications for research work by a leading climate scientist Michael E. Mann, who was an assistant professor at the university from 1999 to 2005. The demand was issued under the Virginia Fraud Against Taxpayers Act in connection with claims by Cuccinnelli that Mann had possibly violated state fraud laws in relation to five research grants, by allegedly manipulating data. No evidence of wrongdoing was presented to support the claim. Mann's earlier work had been targeted by climate change skeptics in the hockey stick controversy, and allegations against him were renewed in late 2009 in the Climatic Research Unit email controversy but found to be groundless in a series of investigations.\n\nWidespread concerns were raised by University of Virginia's faculty and numerous scientists and science organizations that Cuccinelli's actions posed a threat to academic freedom, and would have a chilling effect on research in the state. The university filed a court petition and the judge dismissed Cuccinelli's demand on the grounds that no justification had been shown for the investigation. Cuccinelli tried to re-open his case by issuing a revised subpoena, and appealed the case to the Virginia Supreme Court. The case was defended by the university, and the court ruled that Cuccinelli did not have the authority to make these demands. The outcome was hailed as a victory for academic freedom.\n\nWhile an adjunct assistant professor at the University of Massachusetts Amherst, Michael E. Mann co-authored with Raymond S. Bradley and Malcolm K. Hughes two reconstructions of the past temperatures in the northern hemisphere: MBH98 and MBH99. The latter extended back 1,000 years and was nicknamed the \"hockey stick graph\". In 1999 Mann joined the University of Virginia as an assistant professor. A version of MBH99 featured prominently in the 2001 IPCC Third Assessment Report, and attacks on the graph by those opposing action on global warming became politically prominent in the Hockey stick controversy. The validity of the research was confirmed by the National Academy of Sciences. In 2005 Mann moved on to a position as an associate professor at Pennsylvania State University. The Climatic Research Unit email controversy which began in November 2009 brought renewed scrutiny, and allegations of scientific malpractice. An investigation by Pennsylvania State University determined on 3 February 2010 that there was no evidence of misconduct by Mann.\n\nIn January 2010, Ken Cuccinelli took office as Virginia's elected Attorney General. He is a conservative Republican party politician and global warming denier, who alleges that the evidence of global warming has been skewed by scientists. The following month he filed suit seeking to overturn a finding of the United States Environmental Protection Agency that greenhouse gases endanger public health.\n\nCuccinelli's office served a formal \"Civil Investigative Demand\" (CID) on the University of Virginia on 23 April 2010, requiring the university to produce information and documentary materials by 27 May 2010. The civil investigative demand was equivalent to a subpoena but did not require the Attorney General to file a lawsuit or to obtain the intervention or permission of a court so that he could make the demand.\n\nThe CID referred to an investigation by the Attorney General into \"possible violations\" by Mann of the Virginia Fraud Against Taxpayers Act (FATA). Information required related to Mann having sought grants funded by the Commonwealth of Virginia, and any data or communications Mann had made in connection with five named grants for scientific research. The university was instructed to produce documents dating from January 1999 to the present, including all emailed or written correspondence from, to or relating to Mann and 39 named climate scientists as well as research assistants, secretaries and administrative staff, anything connected with applications for the grants or payment of the grants, and all \"documents, drafts, things or data\" generated in carrying out the grant assisted research. They also required all \"computer algorithms, programs, source code or the like\" created or edited by Mann and stored by the university. Where documents were no longer held by the university, the CID required details of who had destroyed or removed them, and their authority for doing so.\n\nOn 29 April \"The Hook\" reported these demands, and the immediate response of the university that they would meet their legal obligation, but this would take time due to the range of documents required:\nBrian Gottstein, a spokesman for Cuccinelli, initially said \"The attorney general's office can neither confirm nor deny the existence or nonexistence of a pending investigation\".\n\nOn 4 May the \"Washington Post\" published Cuccinelli's comments describing the request as part of an \"open inquiry\" into whether Mann had made \"knowing inconsistencies\" when applying for research funding. Cuccinelli said \"In light of the Climategate e-mails, there does seem to at least be an argument to be made that a course was undertaken by some of the individuals involved, including potentially Michael Mann, where they were steering a course to reach a conclusion\". He added that \"Our act, frankly, just requires honesty.\" In a television interview on 5 May he said \"We aren't targeting scientific conclusions. That's not the issue. It's the expenditure of taxpayer dollars.\"\n\nThe university responded on 5 May with a position statement which noted that four of the five named research grants were from federal organisations outside Virginia. The CID referred to FATA provisions on financial fraud, but Cuccinelli's comments in the \"Washington Post\" and the unusual nature of the CID \"strongly suggest that the investigation is motivated primarily by differences of opinion regarding the scientific basis for current understanding of climate change.\" They considered his actions inappropriate in scientific inquiry; \"His action and the potential threat of legal prosecution of scientific endeavor that has satisfied peer-review standards send a chilling message to scientists engaged in basic research involving Earth’s climate and indeed to scholars in any discipline. Such actions directly threaten academic freedom and, thus, our ability to generate the knowledge upon which informed public policy relies.\"\n\nCuccinelli's demand prompted an outcry about the case's threat to academic freedom. Mann said that he believed that Cuccinelli was \"simply trying to smear me as part of a larger campaign to discredit my science\". Nineteen professors at Virginia's Old Dominion University issued a statement saying that Cuccinelli's actions \"echo some of the worst offenses of the McCarthy era\", alluding to the anti-Communist investigations of Senator Joseph McCarthy in the 1950s. They demanded that he \"cease and desist from this and further 'witch hunts' driven by partisan political agendas that waste valuable state resources in a difficult economy.\" U.Va.'s Faculty Senate issued a statement criticizing the investigation as being politically motivated and \"an inappropriate way to engage with the process of scientific inquiry\" which \"directly threaten[s] academic freedom\" by \"send[ing] a chilling message to scientists engaged in basic research involving Earth's climate and indeed to scholars in any discipline.\"\n\nEight hundred university faculty members across the US signed a petition organized by the Union of Concerned Scientists, which said in a statement: \"Much of Virginia's scientific and academic community is appalled that their attorney general has launched such a blatantly political investigation.\" The American Civil Liberties Union of Virginia and the American Association of University Professors also criticized Cuccinelli's actions, commenting in a joint letter that \"it is hard to conceive of the Attorney General's request ... as anything but a \"fishing expedition\" aimed at discrediting Dr. Mann's conclusions, rather than pursuing any reasonable suspicions of malfeasance.\" A statement by the directors of the American Association for the Advancement of Science said that \"scientists should not be subjected to fraud investigations simply for providing scientific results that may be controversial or inconvenient\" and that investigations such as those Cuccinelli has initiated against Mann \"could have a long-lasting and chilling effect on a broad spectrum of research fields that are critical to a range of national interests from public health to national security to the environment.\"\n\nThe science journal \"Nature\" published an editorial describing the investigation as \"an ideologically motivated inquisition that harasses and intimidates climate scientists\" and noted it had been condemned even by climate change skeptics. Chip Knappenberger, assistant to global warming skeptic Patrick Michaels, said just as he \"didn't like it when the politicians came after Pat Michaels,\" he \"[doesn't] like it that the politicians are coming after Mike Mann.\" The \"Washington Post\" said in an editorial that Cuccinelli had \"declared war on the freedom of academic inquiry\" and that he had demonstrated \"a dangerous disregard for scientific method and academic freedom.\" In a subsequent editorial the newspaper applauded U.Va's decision to resist the demand and highlighted the potential cost of the precedent being set by Cuccinelli, noting that \"if researchers at state institutions are unwilling to stick their necks out in case a state official dislikes their findings, scientific progress at the commonwealth's universities will screech to a halt, talented faculty will leave, and the best and brightest students will go elsewhere.\"\n\nMany scientists urged the university to resist. On 27 May U.Va. filed a petition with Albemarle County Circuit Court asking a judge to dismiss Cuccinelli's demand. The university argued that Cuccinelli had issued a vague, non-specific demand that exceeded his statutory authority: \"Investigating the merits of a university researcher's methodology, results and conclusions (on climate change or any topic) goes far beyond the Attorney General's limited statutory power\". The petition connected Cuccinelli's actions with his ongoing litigation about federal environmental policy and regulation. It argued in a subsequent brief that the demand was \"fundamentally legally flawed\".\n\nCuccinelli filed a brief in response on 11 June asserting that he had a right to demand climate change records, arguing that \"neither academic freedom nor the First Amendment have ever been held to immunize a person, whether an academic or not, from civil or criminal actions for fraud, let alone immunized them from an otherwise authorized investigation.\" The Union of Concerned Scientists noted that the brief based its arguments on emails from the Climatic Research Unit email controversy, but said it misrepresented emails and took them out of context. Shortly afterwards, Penn State university Investigatory Inquiry announced that it had unanimously \"determined that there is no substance\" to the allegations against Mann.\n\nA follow-up brief filed on 13 July again asserted Cuccinelli's authority and questioned Mann's scientific findings, asserting that Mann and other scientists had manipulated scientific conclusions to produce results that could be used to support the regulation of carbon dioxide. The Union of Concerned Scientists described it as making basic errors based on claims from the hockey stick controversy taken out of context.\n\nU.Va. responded by questioning Cuccinelli's motives, stating that his demand was \"aimed squarely at Dr. Mann's scientific conclusions\" and that more than a third of the attorney general's brief \"is devoted to challenging and criticizing the research and conclusions of Dr. Mann and his co-authors.\" The University argued that given the importance of protecting academic freedom the court should not permit the attorney general to exceed his statutory power, and that \"such a potentially invasive investigative tool should not be permitted to be used to target academics merely because the Attorney General disputes the legitimacy of their research and conclusions.\" It noted that four of the grants queried by Cuccinelli were received from the federal government and were therefore not covered by the Virginia Fraud Against Taxpayers Act, while the fifth was awarded before the statute was enacted in 2003. U.Va. argued that much of the information demanded by Cuccinelli had nothing to do with any of the five grants and was \"not even remotely tailored to an investigation of a potential [fraud statute] investigation.\" The presiding judge, Cheryl V. Higgins, agreed to stay Cuccinelli's demand pending further oral hearings due to take place in late August.\n\nOn August 20, 2010, Albermarle Circuit Court Judge Paul Peatross heard argument on when Cuccinelli should get the requested data, including emails between Mann and his research assistants, secretaries and 39 other scientists across the country. In the court's ruling issued on August 30, 2010, the judge concluded that the university was a proper subject for a Civil Investigative Demand which could investigate \"grants made with Commonwealth of Virginia funds to professors such as Dr. Mann\", but not the federal grants. However, the demands did not show \"reason to believe\" that the university held relevant material, or meet the statute requirements to state \"the nature of the conduct\" so that \"any reasonable person could glean what Dr. Mann did to violate the statute\". The court completely rejected the demands, but left it open for the \"Commonwealth to proceed according to the law\". At this point, Cuccinelli could either rewrite the civil investigative demand or appeal the decision.\n\nMann called the ruling a victory \"for all scientists who live in fear that they may be subject to a motivated witch hunt when their research findings prove inconvenient to powerful vested interests.\"\n\nOn September 29, 2010, Cuccinelli filed a revised CID in order to address some of the shortcomings identified in the August 30 ruling. The main changes were narrowing the case to the only one of the five original grants which was not a federal grant and stating the specific allegation of fraud: he referred to the Mann, Bradley and Hughes 1998 and 1998 \"hockey stick\" hemispheric climate reconstructions (MBH98 and MBH99), and said \"Specifically, but without limitation, some of the conclusions of the papers demonstrate a complete lack of rigor regarding the statistical analysis of the alleged data, meaning that the result reported lacked statistical significance without a specific statement to that effect.\" Mann noted that the grant concerned was for research into the interaction between the atmosphere and vegetation in the African savannah, and did not relate to climate reconstructions. The University of Virginia announced that it would fight the request, and stated that resisting the Attorney General's demands had already cost it $350,000 in legal fees, paid from private funds.\n\nOn October 20, 2010, the University of Virginia filed papers requesting that Cuccinelli’s latest demand be “set aside” as well. UVa’s lawyers pointed out that Cuccinelli’s latest CID recites verbatim the first 15 pages of the attorney general’s brief in opposition to UVa’s petition to dismiss the previous CIDs. They stated that the text had already been considered by the court and “found deficient.” \n\nIn March, 2011, the Supreme Court of Virginia decided to hear Cuccinelli's appeal. Both sides were expected to file legal briefs outlining their cases in the spring, and a hearing was to be held at some point after those documents were received.\n\nOn 2 March 2012 the Supreme Court ruled that Cuccinelli as Attorney General had no legal authority to demand the records from the university. Mann expressed pleasure at the outcome, but stated that \"It's sad that so much money and resources had to be wasted on Cuccinelli's witch hunt against me and the University of Virginia, when it could have been invested, for example, in measures to protect Virginia's coastline from the damaging effects of sea-level rise it is already seeing.\" The Union of Concerned Scientists applauded the reconfirmation that the demands lacked legal standing, and said that \"Academic institutions have the responsibility to protect their faculty's ability to discover new things about our world without fearing harassment. Nobody should expect the rough drafts of their work to be subject to the same level of scrutiny as their published research.\" The Attorney General's office put out a statement that \"From the beginning, we have said that we were simply trying to review documents that are unquestionably state property to determine whether or not fraud had been committed. Today, the court effectively held that state agencies do not have to provide state-owned property to state investigators looking into potential fraud involving government funds.\"\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45267338", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45267338", "title": "Congress.gov", "text": "Congress.gov\n\nCongress.gov is the online database of United States Congress legislative information. A project of the Library of Congress, it was in beta in 2012, and launched on July 5, 2016 superseding THOMAS.\n\nThe resource was a comprehensive, Internet-accessible source of information on the activities of Congress, including:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17781151", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17781151", "title": "Constructive ambiguity", "text": "Constructive ambiguity\n\nConstructive ambiguity is a term generally credited to Henry Kissinger, said to be the foremost exponent of the negotiating tactic it designates. It refers to the deliberate use of ambiguous language on a sensitive issue in order to advance some political purpose. Constructive ambiguity is often disparaged as . It might be employed in a negotiation, both to disguise an inability to resolve a contentious issue on which the parties remain far apart and to do so in a manner that enables each to claim obtaining some concession on it.\n\nIt warrants further hopes that the ensuing postponement of resolution on this particular point, in a way that causes neither side excessive discomfort, will enable them to make real progress on other matters. If this progress takes place, the unresolved question might be revisited at a later date, if not voided altogether by the passage of time. On the other hand, since ambiguity in agreements can generate subsequent controversy, the likelihood of its employment proving constructive in comparison to further attempts to negotiate the point in question in clear terms is a question best left for historians.\n\nThe UN Security Council agreed on the text of the Resolution 242 after the crushing defeat that Israel inflicted on joint Arab forces during the Six-Day War in 1967. As a result of bargaining between the powers sitting in the Security Council, the resolution reflected the deeply polarized political opinion. The provision of the resolution which prompted different and incompatible interpretations was the one immediately following the preamble of the text, reading: \"establishment of just and lasting peace in the Middle East should include the application of both the following principles:\n\nThe use of an unnatural English construction \"territories occupied in recent conflict\" without the expected definite article, \"the\", made it possible to question whether Israel was asked to withdraw from all the territories occupied in the recent conflict, or to withdraw from some, but not all, such territories. Notably, the French translation of the document, unlike the English original, used the definite article, demanding the \"retrait des forces armées israéliennes des territoires occupés lors du récent conflit\". Thus the French version, which together with the English version was an official UN version of the document, suggested that Israel must withdraw from all territories that it occupied during the Six-Day War.\n\nNaturally, the French interpretation suited the interests of Arab countries, which made numerous attempts to prove its validity. By contrast, Israel opposed such an interpretation, and the sponsor of the resolution, Lord Caradon, appears to have had no intention of inserting the definite article into its text. Caradon additionally emphasized the additional and clarifying light that the second part of the first provision shed on its first part, and insisted that it must be given uppermost consideration. According to him, the boundary that existed before the Six-Day War did not satisfy the right of Israel to live within secure and recognised boundaries. Consequently, under this interpretation, Israel did not have to withdraw to its pre–Six-Day War borders.\n\nThe Shanghai Communiqué was issued by the United States of America and the People's Republic of China on 27 February 1972, during the US President Richard Nixon's visit to China. Henry Kissinger acted as the principal US negotiator in this matter. The document contained an ambiguous provision inserted by the United States: \"The United States acknowledges that all Chinese on either side of the Taiwan Strait maintain there is but one China and that Taiwan is a province of China.\" This provision lent itself to interpretation as the very first expression of American support for the one-China policy, calling for a reintegration of Taiwan into the PRC. But that is not what it meant in its original context.\n\nThe fact acknowledged by the US \"that the PRC and Taiwan agree that there is \"but one China\" does not imply any sort of agreement on internal arrangements for the \"one China.\" On the contrary, for as long as the Taiwan issue has been posed, Chinese governments on either side of the Taiwan Strait have been unable to agree on a formula for their reunification, let alone to have it supported by the US government. Nevertheless, its official endorsement of the term “one China” helped the US to find a proper balance between its relations with the PRC and its relations with Taiwan, without jeopardizing either. Its use reflected a negotiated instance of constructive ambiguity that reduced the immediate risk of open conflict.\n\nIn the wake of the Yom Kippur War between Israel and Egypt, both negotiators and belligerents faced the issue of the status of the Egyptian Third Army, surrounded by the Israeli Defense Force on the eastern side of Suez. Almost no progress was achieved in the first phase of peace talks held in October. While the talks continued in Washington in November, the UN Security Council issued Resolution 340, which demanded that the Israeli Force withdraw to the lines occupied on October 22, 1973, at 1650 GMT, causing an end to the encirclement of the Egyptian Third Army. However, Israel refused to comply with Resolution 340. Thereafter negotiations fortunately continued and resulted in a so-called \"6-Point Agreement\", signed on November 11 at Kilometer 101 of the Cairo-Suez road. It was the first agreement that Israel signed with an Arab country after the outbreak of hostilities between Arabs and Israelis in 1949.\n\nOne of the chief mediators to the agreement, Henry Kissinger, US Secretary of State, frequently used the term \"constructive ambiguity\" during the negotiations, to explain his negotiating strategy as well as the key purpose of the 6-Point Agreement. Provision B of the agreement contained an ambiguity that created an incentive for Israeli negotiators to engage in further talks leading to Israel's compliance with SC Resolution 340 and ensured that talks continue and arrive at a solution that would save the face of one of the two parties. This result could not have been achieved by a quick jump or a fiat.\n\nProvision B says: \"Both sides agree that discussions between them will begin immediately to settle the question of the return to the October 22 positions in the framework of agreement on the disengagement and separation of forces under the auspices of the UN.\" This provided for a syntactical ambiguity that allowed Egyptian and Israeli negotiators to interpret their accord in diametrically opposite ways. Egyptian negotiators interpreted this provision as a clear demand that Israel withdraw its armed force in accordance with United Nations Security Council Resolution 340, linking \"return to the October 22 positions\" and \"under the auspices of the UN\". By contrast, Israeli negotiators interpreted the provision as calling on the parties to negotiate a \"separation of forces\" agreement without any specific request to return to the October 22 lines, by linking \"discussions... to settle the question\" and \"under the auspices of the UN\".\n\nIn the course of the Syrian–Israeli peace negotiations, the call for a \"comprehensive, just, and lasting peace\" was replaced by the formula of \"full peace for full withdrawal\" in May 1993. The former requirement tended to link the Syrian–Israeli talks to the Palestinian and other negotiating tracks, whereas the latter formula of \"full peace for full withdrawal\" tended to sever such links and ties in favor of a separate settlement that \"stands on its two feet\", as the Israelis put it. This short-lived \"constructive ambiguity\" may have witnessed a face-saving attempt by Syrian President Hafez Asad to maintain coordination among the different Arab-Israeli negotiating tracks while offering Israel a full contractual peace in return for the Golan Heights. The revelation of the Oslo Accords between Israel and the PLO in the summer of 1993 effectively ended this ambiguity, whereas the subsequent Israel–Jordan peace treaty of October 1994 rendered it irrelevant. Syria's neighbors, for their part, no longer sought \"comprehensive peace\".\n\nSinn Féin is a political party in Northern Ireland that was often affiliated with terrorism while pursuing Irish unity. US Northern Ireland Special Envoy Mitchell Reiss has pointed out its cynical use of constructive ambiguity, when in the 1990s, Sinn Féin adopted a strategy labeled as \"TUAS\". Within the policy document, this acronym meant \"Tactical Use of Armed Struggle\"; however, the same acronym was publicly translated to mean \"Totally Unarmed Strategy.\"\n\nSome recent bilateral trade agreements such as the Australia-United States Free Trade Agreement (AUSFTA) and Republic of Korea-United States Free Trade Agreement (KORUSFTA)have produced final texts after contentious and largely unresolved negotiations about whether, for example, pharmaceutical innovation (a constructive ambiguity) should be 'valued' (also a constructive ambiguity) through the operation of nominally competitive markets (requiring strong anti-trust law to be effective) (the United States position) or through expert evidence-based assessment of objectively demonstrated cost-effectiveness (the Australian and Korean positions).\n\nConcern has been expressed in the academic literature that the inclusion of non-violation nullification of benefits (NVNB)provisions in such bilateral trade agreements could encourage ongoing lobbying by multinational corporations of domestic policy makers to pass legislation rewarding their version of the trade deal mentioned constructive ambiguity of innovation (see Annex 2C.1 of the AUSFTA) causing issues for democratic sovereignty over domestic policy.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52668870", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52668870", "title": "Cotton Mill Women Strikes", "text": "Cotton Mill Women Strikes\n\nThe Cotton Mill Women's Strikes occurred in 1845 through 1848 in Allegheny City, now Pittsburgh. It was an organized effort of the 1,500 women laborers to prevent their employers to force them to work twelve hour work days. It also ended child labor in the mills.\n"}
{"id": "4844867", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4844867", "title": "Custom house", "text": "Custom house\n\nA custom house or customs house was a building housing the offices for the government officials who processed the paperwork associated with importing and exporting goods into and out of a country. Customs officials also collected customs duty on imported goods.\n\nThe custom house was typically located in a seaport or in a city on a major river, with access to the ocean. These cities acted as a port of entry into a country. The government stationed officials at such locations to collect taxes and regulate commerce.\n\nDue to advances in electronic information systems, the increased volume of international trade, and the introduction of air travel, the term \"custom house\" is now often an historical anachronism. There are many examples of buildings around the world that were formerly used as custom houses but have since been converted for other uses, such as museums or civic buildings.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, since 1386, the phrase \"custom house\" has been in use over the term \"customs house\". This was after a \"Custom House\" was erected at Wool Wharf in Tower Ward, to contain just the officials of the Great Custom on Wool and Woolfells. The singular form was used even though in later years the Custom House was the location of other Customs officials as well.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46785905", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46785905", "title": "Czech Republic Government Vote of No Confidence, 2015", "text": "Czech Republic Government Vote of No Confidence, 2015\n\nThe Parliament of the Czech Republic vote of no confidence in the current Czech Republic government of the Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka was held on Tuesday 26 May 2015.\n\nThe vote was initiated because of opposition concerns about conflicts of interest on the part of Finance Minister Andrej Babiš.\n\nThe vote of no confidence was called by the three opposition political parties - ODS, TOP 09 and Úsvit (\"Dawn\") on 21 May 2015 as step against Finance Minister of the Czech Republic Andrej Babiš.\n\nThe vote of no confidence to the Government was unsuccessful as only 47 legislators supported no confidence when 101 were needed. 105 Members of Parliament voted against no confidence and 32 MP's abstained. 16 legislators did not attend the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies.\n"}
{"id": "4447953", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4447953", "title": "David Garrard (property developer)", "text": "David Garrard (property developer)\n\nSir David Eardley Garrard (born 12 January 1939) is a retired British property developer.\n\nDavid Garrard was born Streatham on 12 January 1939, the son of a Stamford Hill upholsterer. He attended Battersea Grammar School in South London.\n\nGarrard left school at 16 and joined an estate agency. He co-founded Minerva PLC with Andrew Rosenfeld, a property investment and development company, whose shares are quoted in the London Stock Exchange FTSE 250 Index, and served as its chairman for many years until his retirement in March 2005. Before co-founding Minerva, Garrard worked as a financial adviser. In 2008, he set up a venture capital business with his son in law Alexander Salter, but the two fell out when Salter and Garrard's daughter divorced in 2013, leading to a High Court case.\n\nGarrard was listed by the Sunday Times Rich List 2005 as the joint 451st richest person in the UK, with a fortune in excess of £100 million, falling to 575th with £95 million in 2009.\n\nIn 2014 Garrard was involved in a legal dispute with his former son-in-law related to an alleged attempted transfer of £2.5 million from a bank account and the appointment of Lord Mendelsohn as a director of jointly owned companies.\n\nIn 2002 the first city academy under a new Labour programme, Business Academy Bexley, was opened by prime minister Tony Blair with Garrard as principal sponsor with a financial contribution of £2.5 million. Garrard chaired its governing body.\n\nBefore the 2005 General Election Garrard secretly provided the Labour Party with a loan of £2.3 million at a time when loans on commercial terms did not have to be declared, to be repaid on 28 April 2007. Following the discovery of the loan in the course of the Cash for Honours political scandal in the UK, Garrard withdrew his nomination for a peerage. The loan was extended, and Gerrard eventually called for it to be repaid in 2015, in a reaction against the election of Jeremy Corbyn as leader of the Labour Party.\n\nIn 2013, Garrard hosted a visit to Israel by eleven Labour MPs, including shadow defence secretary Jim Murphy, shadow defence minister Gemma Doyle, Labour Friends of Israel chair Anne McGuire and vice-chair Louise Ellman. He also sponsored Labour Friends of Israel meetings, including a speech by Labour leader Ed Miliband.\n\nIn 2014, Garrard donated £500,000 to the Labour party, one of the largest private donations under Ed Miliband's leadership. This received criticism of \"double standards\" when the media reported that Garrard had placed shares in an offshore trust to avoid tax, similar to Conservative donor and co-treasurer Lord Fink who Labour had cricised.\n\nGarrard left the Labour Party while it was under the leadership of Jeremy Corbyn, over the party's response to antisemitism by the end of March 2018.\n\nGarrard was knighted in the 2003 New Year Honours.\n\nGarrard is a patron of children's charity Lifeline 4 Kids, is a trustee of the Police Foundation, and has been a director of the Princes Trust Business Division. \nGarrard donated £2.4 million to the Bexley Business Academy (now known as the Harris Garrard Academy), a first- and second-level school, and chaired its governing body. The Business Academy Bexley was renamed the Harris Garrard Academy when it was taken over by the Harris Federation in 2017, to reflect the support Garrard had put into the academy.\n\nGarrard was married for forty-seven years to Maureen, Lady Garrard who became a Director of The Garrard Family Foundation and The Garrard Academy. She died in 2011. Garrard is a British Jew.\n"}
{"id": "55796083", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55796083", "title": "Digital divide by country", "text": "Digital divide by country\n\nThe digital divide is an economic and social inequality with regard to access to, use of, or impact of information and communication technologies (ICT). Factors causing the divide can vary depending on the country and culture, as can the potential solutions for minimizing or closing the divide.\n\nThe following is a list of countries that have a digital divide along with contributing factors and steps the country is taking to resolve the issue.\n\nThe digital divide in Argentina is the term used to describe the technological and connectivity gap between different demographics and regions, specifically the gaps present in the country of Argentina. The availability and access to the Internet in Argentina shows how the trends of a digital divide stay constant, even across different countries and cultures. Age is one of the main factors, and Argentina's statistics show a common disparity between ages. According to TNS Infratest, the age group with the highest rate of daily internet users in 2016 were users under 25. 91% of that age demographic were polled as being daily internet users. In contrast, the age group with the lowest rate were users over 55, with only 68% of that demographic being daily internet users. The older one is, the less likely they are to use Internet, and these statistics reflect that. The way that users are able to access the Internet can also show the status of Internet and how easily one can utilize it. In Argentina, 48% of users preferred to use a smartphone or tablet to a computer, 29% used them equally, and 16% preferred a computer to a smartphone or tablet.\n\nThe quality of life in Argentina is among one of the highest in South and Latin America, according to InterNations. The children are well educated in school, and they are given numerous opportunities to pursue afterwards. The Government created a project named \"Conectar Igualdad\" (Connecting Equality) where they distribute netbooks to students and teachers in primary school, special needs schools, and state institutes. Since the project began nearly 4,000,000 netbooks have been dispersed amongst them to 400 different schools and 7,500 different teachers. The program works in three parts: an internet connection to Wi-Fi, an established internet connection through a reliable network (giving students Internet access anywhere, even at home), and making use of a syntonizer for Digital TV, allowing students access to interactive live programs. In 2011, the Government launched another program named \"Escuelas de Innovacion\" (Schools of Innovation). The main goal is to guarantee students better access to education and technology. The Government of Argentina creates new and innovative projects each year for students and teachers to have greater access to the Internet. It plays an important role in their education and is a great opportunity for students and teachers to close the gap in the digital divide.\n\nImmorality and ICT holds are the major contributor to stunt in Africa's development. The geography factor focuses more on how an individuals' location put them at an advantage or disadvantage to compete with the digital age. However, only a handful on people and communities are being represented. Underdeveloped geographical locations, like the continent of Africa serves as one of the underrepresented minorities. In a study conducted in 2011, they estimate that internet access is only available to roughly fourteen percent of the African population. This means that while the world’s population is only composed of fifteen percent of Africans, around six percent of that subscribe to the internet. \n\nThe digital divide in Bangladesh is a gap in the population of Arshads who can access information and communication technologies (ICTs) and those without proper access or skills.\n\nInformation and communication technologies use in Bangladesh began to grow in 2005 with the introduction of market liberalization.\n\nThe government has been trying to help increase ICT availability to all Bangladeshis by reducing taxes on the VSAT and creating special projects to support the spread of ICTs. In 2006 the largest mobile phone company in Bangladesh, GrameenPhone Ltd, introduced Community Information Centers (CICs), which are each equipped with two computers, printers, digital cameras and web cameras that can be used by the community. \"There are over 500 CICs operating in 450 subdistricts in Bangladesh\". Within the community, there is research suggesting that men benefit more from ICTs than women due to Bangladesh's gender discrimination. Bangladesh has the potential to grow and gain more access to ICTs if they continue to reduce government limitations and grow their economy.\n\nThe education system in Bangladesh is divided up into three stages of schooling: primary school, secondary school, and a level of more formal education. Primary school lasts for five years for children aged 6 to 10, secondary school lasts for seven years, and the formal education level can last anywhere from two to six years. Government policies have been implanted since 2000 that has caused the Information Technology (IT) industry to grow in Bangladesh. Students started going to school in order to become a part of this growing workforce, taking lessons in English language, analytical thinking, and software development. The youth of Bangladesh are becoming educated in the technology available, which is a step in ending Bangladesh’s part in the global digital divide. A country can have access to technology but if the people do not understand how to use the technology than there is no difference between having it or not. Satisfaction and gratification from using the technology are key points in bridging the gap because the sense of accomplishment give the people confidence to use the technology.\n\nThe digital divide in Canada is impacted by several factors that include the differences in the availability of online connectivity resources in different locations across the country, levels of digital literacy, and economic levels.\n\nInternet Censorship\n\nSites in which allow for the regular and free interaction between Chinese citizens, generally come with some restrictions. This will include social media sites, forums, and other sites which are heavy on user interactivity. Google has also been heavily restricted in China and this includes all of its different features.\n\nThe digital divide in Colombia refers to the absence of Information and Communication Technology (ICT) and how it affects Colombian individuals and its society as a whole. The main lapse of technology and information lies in the physical access realm of things, where it is lacking tremendously. Though Internet in Colombia has made progress compared to recent years, the scholary part of how ICTs are used are still in question. With this being said, government officials have made certain that access to ICTs be a priority in their country. In addition to physical access, literature review and types of internet use have also been main points of focus in regards to a solution for digital divide in Colombia.\n\nThere is a difference between material or physical access and actual use of ICTs. \"According to Hargittai (2008),\ndifferences in the uses of ICTs have important implications for life outcomes\". \"Rojas and Puig-i-abril (2009) found that the most prevalent activities of Internet users in Colombia were checking e-mail, consuming entertainment content, chatting with friends, and consuming news and information.\" There are different levels of \"use\" including, non-use, low use, and frequent use while also taking into consideration the opportunities taken by the users. There is a difference in those who go online just for fun and those who use the internet for the improvement of themselves. \n(International Journal of Communication (19328036)) (Digital Divide in Colombia: The Role of Motivational and Material Access in the Use and Types of Use of ICTs).\n\nOne digital divide study displayed physical access as \"having\"/\"not having\" access to the internet. Those who are less fortunate have been shown to lack educational advantage, due to the fact of not having access to internet as common as those who are more fortunate in wealth. Communities that are more technological advanced offers their communities to expand their knowledge and be able to communicate with other worlds. The intellectual advantage is common for countries, such as Colombia, where the poor communities are lacking the opportunities offered to those who are on the other side of town with more advantage. Poor communities are focusing on trying to make ends meet, and working hard labor without being offered to make a change to better themselves. The internet plays an important role in this, due to the fact that the internet provides opportunities to explore new jobs and to widen individuals' knowledge. In certain areas where the communities are wealthy, the internet is provided at the access of their hands. Being able to access the internet so easily, gives privileged individuals the chance to go beyond their expectations and get their point out into the world.\n\nThere is no singular cause of the Digital Divide in Colombia. A number of different factors each contribute to the variance of access to technology within Colombia. These factors include location, economic class, education, and others.\n\nIn Colombia, those located in large cities are 69% more likely to use the Internet. The high correlation between the use of ICTs and location in large industrial cities is one of the most visible examples of digital divide in Colombia. People located in rural parts of Colombia are significantly less likely to use ICTs and the internet regularly for various reasons. One leading cause is simply because people living in rural parts of the country tend to be less educated which is negatively correlated with technology use. The pastoral parts of Colombia are often much less developed than the large cities. Often, these rustic areas lack the technology and internet providers needed to further bridge the digital divide between large and small cities. A study of the Digital Divide in Colombia concerning residency included a population in which 21.6% of respondents lived in a small or medium-sized city (<1,000,000 inhabitants), while 78.4% lived in larger urban centers. This study showed that the vast majority of ICT usage occurred in large urban areas.\n\nThe importance of technology and its relationship with economic development was synthesized by Solow (1987a) when he stated that “technology remains the dominant engine of growth, with human capital investment in second place.” Concerning economic development and moves to improve it, it is an understood phenomena that countries with the highest availability and use of technology are the countries with the best economies. Technology has not advanced in all societies as far as many thought it would be according to today’s societal expectations. This lack of advancement mainly occurs in communities or organizations whose organizational context differentiates from a more skillful and high value profile to a context of autonomy. “In non-industrial contexts, non-computerized societies and organizations maintain more traditional routines, because they simultaneously face the absorption of techniques and instruments, while copying their preexisting idiosyncrasies, environments, and routines. In these cases change is perceived as expensive, time consuming and risky, producing sentiments that facilitate phobic, indifferent or stereotyped attitudes towards technology”. These preconceptions towards technology play a small role in the digital divide in Colombia. Among society’s who are not on the same accord in regards to technology and its benefits, attitudes towards technology show a distinct display of the amount of technological dependence a community has.\n\nThe two ideas of cultural preservation and cultural modernization create a divide amongst the world of industry and the world of agriculture. The industry field often involves research and development. Societies involving research and development often require skill in many different areas with products that's value is highly regarded. Both the qualitative and quantitative aspects of the products creates a need for enhanced work material, which oftentimes is the latest and fastest technology. Industrially, in Colombia this is understood and industries strive, strengthening the different industries and corporations all over Colombia. Colombia’s somewhat, partial digital divide stems from areas of Colombia where locals are resistant to change. In 2003, Avgerou found this resistance to change to be due to the uncertainties of technology among the rural population. Gille referred to what was called the Technological System. This idea of Gilles suggested that technology would eventually transform social life all together by connecting technologies and everyday productive routines. Communities often adopt things that are for the betterment of the entire community. Rural populations and communities are often close knit and every one often shares the same views. The idea of technology is not necessarily one that everyone is going to agree with, especially when a community has done with out considerable updates to their prior owned technology for a long period of time. People admire their culture and want to see that it stay the same, with no flaws or inconsistencies. If the technological system adopted by the community is inconsistent or non-competitive, the host is limited by these gaps and builds and inefficient technical rationality. The combination of reverence of community and culture, and possibilities of technological gaps delays technological advancement into many developing communities and this creates a digital divide. While information technology is thriving in the developed parts of Colombia with industries and corporations using it to their economic advantage, the rural and developing side of Colombia still has some ground to cover. This delayed progress of information technology can be mended through information technology programs that teach and enable developing communities how to use technology. Progress can also be made through built trust and reassurance through the government about modernized technology.\n\nEducation is oftentimes viewed as the most important aspect of a society. The relationship between quantitative and qualitative productions of learning and the effort invested in the process, measured with respect to the goals set by the educative institution, the available resources and the needs from the environment, educational productivity is defined. Though education levels tend to depend largely on strength of the governments economy, other factors, including educational programs and community involvement can have an impactful effect. The country of Colombia is primarily rural and is mainly represented by remote areas. The general population of Colombia perceives the Internet as not useful and the purchasing power of Colombians is limited. This displays that access to technology is not necessarily essential and, or available. Communities from developing territories end up producing superficial changes in their tortuous transition to the new ICT paradigm, unable to keep up the pace in developing computer skills. The problem is not just the access to tools; it includes the construction of a compatible social, cultural and economic logic (Avgerou, 2003), that, due to the resistance to change from some of the local stakeholders, turns into a complex and slow process. It involves sacrificing some of the distinctive particularities of the community.\n\nThe CPE (Country Program Evaluation) allows the transfer of technology to rural areas to be a much smoother one by training teachers to properly use technological information. This knowledge is taken by teachers and aimed to increase levels of incorporation, adaptation, and integration of technologies as required for achievement of sustainable growth in Colombia, ensuring increased productivity and competitiveness while consolidating the quality of the Colombian educational system. Overall, Colombia’s information technology presence in public schools are relatively normal. Areas of Colombia where poor educational infrastructure is combined with an economy focused on natural resources and its exploitation, are areas with school systems that focus on technical training concerning the production of basic goods rather than long term knowledge and innovation skills. In regards to higher education and universities in Colombia information technology infrastructure is growing at an alarming rate. From possessing updated technology in the classroom to technological information possessed by those in charge, ICT’s (Information Communication Technology) in the Colombian school system is currently at paramount.\n\nIn 2010, President Juan Manuel Santos launched \"Vive Digital,\" a government initiative aimed to create jobs, improve economic growth and development, and—most importantly—reduce poverty. \"Vive Digital\" does this all through the embracing of financial opportunities rooted in the production and utilization of technology. Within the past four years, Vive Digital has changed the digital landscape in Colombia. The largest impact has been on the poorest citizens. Colombia has gone from 3.1 million Internet broadband connections in 2010 to 9.9 million in mid-2014, and Internet penetration for small and medium enterprises (SMEs) increased from 7 percent in 2010 to more than 60 percent in 2014. Another initiative the Colombian government has served the people of Colombia with is the National Broadband Policy of the Ministerio de Tecnologías de la Información y las Comunicaciones (Ministry of Information Technology and Communications) which has increased the percentage of Colombian municipalities connected to the Internet from 17 percent in 2010 to 96 percent today.\n\n\"By 2018, the government hopes to have 63 percent of the country connected to broadband. And according to 2013 GSMA mobile economy figures, there are already 43.9 million mobile connections and 24 million mobile users in a country whose 47 million people give it the third largest population in Latin America and third largest Spanish-speaking population in the world.\"\n\nIn May 2014, Hughes Network Systems LLC, one of the leading broadband solutions and providing services in the world, was granted a contract for an HX broadband satellite system and terminals by HISPASAT Colombia. This contract came as the result of the \"Vive Digital\" government initiative. Hughes Network's increased presence within Colombia has exponentially increased the use of information and communication technologies in Colombia.\n\nThere are two main issues with the digital divide in Colombia that is being researched on. Those two are: how the information is being delivered and, how the information that is being delivered throughout the academic community is working and communicating. The solutions to these issues is getting everyone to focus on the main idea that the way they are communicating with the community is important and vital to civilization. It is important to send out accurate information, and not inform the community with false accusations. Research has shown that the delivery of information has become a vital aspect to Colombia and it includes the way everyone lives their daily lives. Researchers are focusing on the wide spectrum of how information is being spread, whether it is via internet, digital broadcast, mobile communication, or social media networks. With all of the research, it has also been noted to inform the community with the production of interpersonal communication and improvement in technological developments. The goal of the research is to improve the digital divide for Colombia's community to provide an adequate form of communication via the participating communities.\n\nThe gender digital divide in Middle Eastern countries causes women to have far less access to the internet than men. Statistically, women are held at lower standards in the Middle East, which is a reason for this digital division. Males are using the internet at a 47.7% rate with women at only 39.4%.\n\nThe digital divide in Ethiopia has caused a massive lack of information for many poorer individuals, however, the greatest failure relates to education. Between intense government regulation as well as economic factors, it is nearly impossible for the average person to access the internet. With such a gross lack of access to technology and the internet, education is stunted and children are forced to rely on archaic, biased, and often unreliable sources of information. \n\nThe CIA notes that only 15% of the Ethiopian population is connected to the Internet placing the country at 107 of the 217 countries ranked in the study.\n\nIn 2016, the Ethiopian government blocked all social media sites after an anonymous user posted copies of university entrance exams online. In an interview with Reuters News Agency, Mohammed Seid at the Office for Government Communications Affairs, said only social media sites were blocked but BBC News received conflicting reports from Ethiopian citizens who claimed that they experienced problems with both mobile networks and fixed line Internet services.\n\nRoughly 40% of schools in Ethiopia have computers. Of that 40% most of the schools are located in Ethiopia'a capital, Addis Ababa. This in turn has created a divide between schools in urban cities like Addis Ababa and schools in rural areas. Most schools that are connected to the Internet have limited access and only use it for email that's solely for administrators. Many universities and higher learning institutions in Ethiopia have computers but the average ratio of students to computer is about 10:1. Only 15% of private universities in Ethiopia participate in Electronic Distance Education which is also known as online school. For many students, online education is a more convenient alternative to pursuing higher education because of their location.\n\nThere are two major initiatives aimed at bridging the digital divide gap. SchoolNet Ethiopia is a joint initiative between Ministry of Education and the United Nations Development Programme that has equipped 181 schools with 15 networked computer labs. The Distance Learning initiative backed by The Ministry of Education has been working with the Indira Gandhi National Open University in India to provide master's degrees to students from the University of Addis Adaba in Ethiopia.\n\nIn a world almost completely reliant on technology and access to the internet, the digital divide in Ethiopia poses a major problem for its citizens and the effects are nearly detrimental in the current global economy. Without access to the internet, Ethiopia cannot compete with the rest of the world and this has caused many gradual effects. These include lack of education, continued economic depression, and a gross lack of transparency in the Ethiopian government, as well as many other smaller, trickle down effects. \n\nOne of the greatest effects the digital divide has one Ethiopia is the lack of education. Approximately 39% of adult Ethiopians can read and a mere 55% of school aged children actually attend school full-time. With an essentially non-existent public education system in this poverty stricken country, the current lack of digital access does not help this matter. An improved access to the internet could help better educate Ethiopian children and with decreased costs as well.\n\nAnother effect of the gross disparity in digital access is the economic impact on Ethiopia's economy. Ethiopia is currently one of 19 remaining countries on earth without a true stock exchange. Without access to capital and investments, Ethiopia’s economy is growing at a snail pace of 5.4% in 2017. The digital divide plays a major factor in this because without access to technology the economy cannot keep up with the rest of the world.  \n\nThe Ethiopian government has a very well established reputation of being suppressive and corrupt throughout the world, and the digital divide also impact this. The few citizens with access to the internet who participate in the media are often heavily censored. With access to the internet, freedom of speech would be more easily accessible and less censored. The Ethiopian government would benefit from this because with more fair media coverage there would be less government corruption thus making Ethiopia a more stable country to invest in.\n\nEthiopian women experience more barriers to overcoming this digital divide than men, resulting in a gender gap. Many of these barriers are socially constructed through discriminating gender roles. Women's time and mobility are restricted by the expectation placed on them to bear the most household chores and management, keeping them too busy for educational or leisurely use of technology. Technological devices such as radios or movie showings are gendered as masculine tools and toys that are unfit for women. The restriction on time and mobility placed on women to work at home also cuts down on female participation in education, making them less comfortable with the idea of using computers and mobile phones because they believe themselves to not be educated enough to understand the devices or software. The risks of exploitation or exposure to pornography or harassment online also discourage the use of technology.\n\nWomen could benefit from measures to increase their access to technology and close the digital divide between the genders. Access to technology and the internet would provide a wealth of information that is vital to entrepreneurship and practicing democracy. Policies and laws that discriminate against women and other social and political inequalities can be discussed and changed by allowing more effective means of communication and organization for those who fight for women's rights.\n\nThe Digital Divide refers to the gap in exposure to technology needed to access the internet and online resources amongst a population. This gap leads to a decrease in the standard of living for those without access to technology while the standard of living for those who do have access to technology increases exponentially. The global digital divide has been an issue for hundreds of years and is far from a new phenomenon. Currently, in most countries, the digital divide is becoming notably less wide due to an increase in availability of affordable electronic devices capable of accessing the internet and has led to an extraordinary increase in competition amongst technological markets. An increase in competition has resulted in increased exposure to new technology with internet access in even the lowest income areas. Despite the increased exposure to technology, there are still other elements of technological access that contribute to the gap. These disparities continue to contribute to the gap that divides nations and prevents historically underprivileged groups from meeting the societal standards that will allow them to thrive in current society.\n\nThe three digital divides in France are characterized as generational, social and cultural differences, according to a report released by the Center for Strategic Analysis in the French government. The generational gap generally affects the elderly since they are the most unfamiliar with newer technologies. The social divide affects the poor since they are less likely to have the budget for technological devices. The cultural divide affects the least educated of the French since they have fewer opportunities for properly utilizing technology.\n\nA survey released by the centre de recherche pour l'étude et l'observation des conditions de vie reported that 17% of the people in France do not have a home computer, 19% do not have any access to the internet, and 23% have no internet access at home. They also reported that only 1 in 3 people aged 70 or older can be considered internet users.\n\nIn France, internet accessibility is not equally distributed among the entire population. Factors that determine internet accessibility in the French community are age, education, and income. Higher internet availability was found among French residents younger than 30 years of age, completed some level of higher education, and are currently employed or in school.\n\nA decrease in internet accessibility correlates with increasing age in France. Those younger than 30 have been recorded to have the highest access to internet. French students retain the highest accessibility. After 30 years of age, accessibility declines. French 59 years and older retain the lowest internet accessibility.\n\nLess than 17% of people over the age of 75 have a computer at their home. In comparison, more than 90% of people aged 15 to 24 have a home computer. This is quite a large divide with senior citizens who make up about 20% of the population.\n\nHigher education correlates to increasing internet accessibility. There is a sharp division between primary and secondary education. Secondary education graduates have four times the accessibility to internet versus those with only primary education. Post-secondary education degrees continue to show an exponential increase in internet accessibility.\n\nHouseholds with higher income levels reflect an increased internet accessibility. Residents with higher salaries are more likely to be able to afford internet connection. The trend persists between employed and unemployed residents. The employed population is 40% more likely to have access to internet.\n\nOf the individuals with lowest incomes in France only 34% have a home computer and only 28% have internet connection. In contrast, 91% of the individuals with considerable wealth have a home computer and 87% have internet connection.\n\nA language system is normally included in information and communication technologies. Certain languages are more prominent in ICT's than others. Data collected in 2007 states that 45% of information on the internet is in English while 4.41% is in French. A separate study published by UNESCO in 2009 compared the amount of Wikipedia articles available per language. 2,259,431 articles (23.078%) were available in English and 629,004 articles (6.425%) were available in French. Of the total population in France, only 39% speak English.\n\nFrance has made significant impact on closing the digital divide. Technological advancements and government funded programs have led to several innovative solutions and a narrowed gap between social classes within the nation regarding internet access and technological availability.\n\nIn 2004 the French government began a program to curb the nation’s digital divide and starting offering a computer with high speed internet access to 1.2 million of its poorest citizens for just 1 euro a day. Mainly to ensure they would have access to the growing number of government services available online. Prime Minister Villepin announced the plan after a meeting of the interministerial committee for the Information Society. A similar project also launched in 2004 sought to put internet connected computers into the hands of university students, also for 1 euro a day, and between September 2004 and September 2005 the number of students with laptops rose from 8 to 22 percent.\n\nThe French Center for Strategic Analysis released several recommendations for bridging the digital divide in 2011. Since many digital divides exist they have decided to take political actions to close the gaps. They also want to use public information campaigns to educate people. For poor and uneducated households they will work to lower the costs associated with network access and also help with the cost of various types of devices for people to access those networks. There is an effort to try and better integrate older people into the digital society, by offering them assistance and education when it comes to participating in the digital society. They will integrate the use of digital technologies in education to highlight good internet practices and to reduce the inequalities in schools. There is a push to showcase 'digital natives', which are those who were born into the digital world, adapting new social behaviors because of the way they integrate new interactive technology into their lives.\n\nThe Minitel System was one of France's earliest attempts to bridge the gap caused by the digital divide. The Minitel System, influenced greatly by the French government, was introduced in 1983 and \"laid the groundwork for France's computerized future\". The system provided French telephone users with access to online databases through their own personal phone line for no extra charge. The videotex service was accessed through a text-interface monitor and keyboard. Initially the system provided access only to things like phone books; however, in little time, users would be able to access numerous online services that allowed them to do things like view and pay bills and online shop. France Telecom made the service more user friendly, bundling users’ online purchases and telephone bills together. The Mintier System continued to grow and was able to provide access to \"more than 20,000 online services before the World Wide Web even got off the ground\". By the end of the 1980s, \"every adult living in France had access to the network\". The system proved to be very successful and continued to provide online content to French phone users until its demise in 2012.\n\nOne in four European internet users access the internet only outside of their home; this means that 1/4 of the current European internet users would not have access to the internet at all if it weren't for places with free public access to the internet such as government funded programs like libraries. The libraries of France are considered to be largely influenced by their political intentions to level the success and education levels amongst the social classes. These libraries are strategically placed in low income areas and on the outskirts of big cities where incomes tend to be lower and crime and unemployment rates tend to be higher. Unlike the uNited States and comparable nations, French libraries have extended hours and are open on all days of the week. Librarians working in these facilities generally have an aspiration to help those of struggling communities enhance their education and learn to use new technology. These facilities have proven to be helpful in bridging the gap between high and low income social classes by exposing French citizens of low income areas to new technology, providing them with access to the internet, and thus lowering unemployment rates.\n\nGermany's digital divide is impacted by several factors that include age, gender, family structure, education, ethnicity, and motivation. There are still areas in Germany that lack access to high-speed internet and large cities tend to have more access to the internet than rural communities. In 2006, the (N)Onliner Atlas recorded that only 51% of small rural communities (pop. < 5,000) were Internet users, eleven points less than their urban counterparts in large cities (pop. > 500,000), where Internet usage rates averaged 62%\n\nThe digital divide in Japan is the disparity of access to the Internet by the population of Japan. Multiple factors influence this divide. Cultural aspects of Japanese people contribute to the digital divide in the nation. Contributing cultural factors to the digital divide present in Japan are closing over time. Groups shown to be improving access include women and the elderly. 97.1% of the households in Japan have Internet access at home while 81% of the households in Japan have personal computers.\n\nThe 2015 population census of Japan was released, under 15 years of age are about 16 mil which is 12.6% of the total population. 76 mil of the population is the age 15–64 years of age which is 60.7% of the total population and 3.3mil are 65 years and higher are 26.6%.\n\nAccording to the Japanese Statistics Bureau, MPHPA, and World Internet Project Japan, in 2001, 44% of the population was online, and 41% of that group were females. Additionally, figures point to declining disparity among internet access in various socioeconomic classes and gender. Additionally, figures show that younger Japanese individuals use the internet as compared to older Japanese individuals. All gaps are shown to be narrowing. A study produced at the University of Buffalo shows that the Japanese consider advanced ICTs a common commodity, not as necessary for advancement.\n\nThe Philippine Information Literacy website, which had an article based on a forum hosted by ASEAN and Japan about media and information literacy, held a two-day event that discussed “how the youth should cope with the rapidly growing world online—particularly the rise of social media—and how they could protect themselves from its hazards.” It also informed the audience about the advantages of technology and how telecommunications has taken over. \n\nJapan is divided into territorial divisions and depending on which geographic area that you live in, and everyone either has internet or no one has internet.\n\nAccording to the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Communications, there are a total of 39 “Zero Broadband Areas” in Japan. This is where there is no broadband access for even a single household within the district. This means Japanese citizens cannot get broadband even if they wanted to because there is no broadband infrastructure in their neighborhood. For some territorial divisions the coverage is up to 99.8% of the people in this area have access to broadband. This leads to a digital divide, but the divide is more drastic at the ends of the curve depending on where you live.\n\nThe Ministry of Internal Affairs and Communications is aiming to improve broadband penetration in remote areas of Japan, but businesses aren’t exactly queuing up to provide expensive infrastructure to hook up remote islands and mountain villages. Japan has more than 4000 islands, 260 of which are inhabited. Japan’s land is also 73% mountainous or hilly, and whilst the population is concentrated mainly in the alluvial plains and coastal areas, there are significant populations living in remote valleys deep in the mountains mainly engaged in agriculture or forestry. It is difficult to justify building out a fiber-based infrastructure to a remote island, or to a dead end mountain ravine community miles from anywhere.\n\nThe internet users in Japan are increasing at an exponential rate but there are still areas demographically do not receive optimal broadband satellite communications in Japan. A possible solution for this is to launch more satellites for those areas. Globally separated into categories of 58% female(most pronounced in Africa, Arab states and Asia-Pacific), 60% rural,poor, illiterate and elderly are offline. ITU provides idea/plans for these focus groups to increase the amount of internet users. Rural areas need to implement a low-cost, given the lower household income is lower in these areas, another idea for rural areas is to provide public buildings with internet access.\n\nThe digital divide in Malaysia is impacted by several factors, which includes age, location, and wealth. Malaysia's status as a non-fully developed country has impacted the availability of technology and the internet, as the lack of access to information communication technology may cause the country to fall even further behind in the progress of worldwide technology if this issue is not addressed and mended.\n\nIn Mexico, half of the population does not have access to the internet. In 2017, 50.4 % of Mexican households had access to the internet and 45.4 % had a computer. The digital divide in Mexico is related to low income, education, lack of proper infrastructure, and geographical location.\n\nWealthier Mexicans are more likely than poorer Mexicans to have access to the internet. Because of certain dominant players monopolizing the telecommunication sector in Mexico, the majority of the Mexican population cannot afford the expensive services of television and internet.\n\nFormal schooling is scarce in the poor regions of Mexico leaving many school-aged children without internet access. Those who have only received an elementary education are four times less likely to access or use the internet. In Mexico, 33% of primary and 48% of secondary schools have access to the internet and report having one computer. The government has addressed the issue by providing technologies that provide the capability to access the internet, but teachers and students are not instructed on how to use them.\n\nMexico's lack of proper fiber optic infrastructure causes less wireless broadband penetration in the country, which in turn effects the number of internet users in Mexico. Fiber optic infrastructure is found more in urban than rural areas. Urban internet usage is significantly higher than rural internet usage. In big cities such as Mexico City, citizens doubled the national average in terms of computer ownership. In 2000, the southern border states of Mexico had half as many phones per capita as the northern states.\n\nThe digital divide is an issue for countries like Morocco who are trying to provide improved internet availability to its people. While internet is available to a majority of people in city centers, rural locations are still without access. There exists some restrictions on telecommunication services and limited service providers to choose from. This acts as a block for Moroccan internet users because the lack of competition can become costly. The cost associated with internet services also prevents those who are more economically disadvantaged from accessing the same types of services.\n\nSome of the main limitations for access are education, gender, and age. People with lower education are less likely to access technology or further their professionalism in the information technology field. Moroccan women can often find that they do not have the same sort of opportunities to technology professions and internet usage. The United Nations Development Fund for Women (UNIFEM) was formed to increase opportunities for women and a project called \"Achieving E-Quality in the IT Sector in Morocco\" has been set up for women to be presented with, increasing their professionalism. Ten universities currently participate in this project in an active effort to close the gender gap within the digital divide.\n\nThere is a discernible age gap between individuals who are active on social media and the internet and those who are not. Those aged 14–25 tend to be more familiar with the different social trends and access them much faster than the older generations. A large attribution to this is the lack of literacy in many adults. In 2010, 56% of Morocco's population was illiterate. While children able to go to school are learning to read, write and use various forms of technology; many of their parents do not have access to these same resources and may not have had access while they were growing up. The largest city of Morocco, Casablanca, has a population of 3,544,498 as of 2016. Around 57.6% of the people throughout Morocco had access to the internet in 2016 while the rural population was 39.32%. With a little over half of the population having access to internet many adults that lack literacy skills are currently living in rural areas with minimal access and usage of the internet, yet for their children they have the opportunity to occasionally access the internet through schooling.\n\nThe government of Morocco has become increasingly involved in closing the digital divide being experienced by the country. Morocco lags behind in the digital world and steps are actively being taken to fix this. One plan that has been put in place is called “Maroc Numeric 2013”. This plan was initiated in 2013 in an attempt to get Morocco more involved in the digital world as well as provide some protections for internet users. This plan has the potential to boost the nation's economy by creating jobs. The plans passed in government legislation also work to reduce some of the costs associated with internet connection and usage by ensuring that internet services can operate on a free market with little to no control unlike the newspapers and television stations of the region. Despite efforts by the Moroccan government there is still some gap in digital connection among its people. The wealthier population still has higher internet access than those that are poorer. There has been some improvement with the help of free market competition to make access to the internet more readily available to all people.\n\nAccording to Samuel Lee, Fabian Seiderer and Lida Bteddini, one potential solution could be increasing and improving the lines of communication between the Moroccan government and it’s people who have expressed much interest in being involved with legal legislation and having more access to knowledge online. A final solution might be updating the original plan, “Digital Morocco 2013” that was put in place in an attempt to bridge the digital divide. While the plan has led to some improvement, connectivity and usage of the internet is still limited to the more educated and urban regions of the Moroccan kingdom.\n\nThe digital divide in Myanmar is impacted by gender and economic class. Wealthy and powerful persons tend to have better access than those who are poor and men typically have more opportunities to get involved in the tele-infrastructure business. The tele-infrastructure in Myanmar is relatively weak compared to those in surrounding countries. The internet supply doesn't meet the increasing demand; hence the digital divide.\n\nMyanmar is a country with low income level and most internet access is on cellphones, because of the low simcard cost. The people who live above the poverty line have all kinds of modern-day access unlike the average or poor who struggle in the everyday necessities. In 2009 it was recorded that 0.94 percent of Myanmar's population had cell phone subscriptions, due to low trade and economic power. The people who live above the poverty line have all kinds of modern-day access unlike the average or poor who struggle in the everyday necessities. In 2016 Myanmar's Gross Domestic Product (GDP) averaged $1,275.02 US dollars, which contrasts with that of the United States at an average of $57,466.79 dollars.\n\nThe amount of internet users in Myanmar has increased significantly in the last few years. In 2014, there were 2 million internet users in Myanmar. That number, however, increased to 39 million users by 2016. The cause of this drastic increase in internet users was caused mainly by the massive increase in SIM card sales recorded through May 2016. This combined with a more aggressive network roll-out by mobile providers to other regions, a decline in SIM card prices, the lowered prices of voice and data plans, and the lowered cost of mobile phones all led to this major increase in mobile sales and subscriptions over that two-year period. Because this market is beginning to reach its maturity stage, significant slowdown is predicted to occur by 2022.\n\nNearly 30% of women are less likely to have access to a mobile device in Myanmar. The cell phone is the main source of internet access in the country. Because of this deficit in internet access between the genders there is a Gender Digital Divide in Myanmar. There is also a significant wage gap between men and woman in addition to limited leadership positions available to be filled. Due to this woman are not as equally represented and often listed as a dependent. This gap contributes to the lack of resources, furthering the lack of digital activity for women. Currently Myanmar is working to close the gap by using more ICT’s in daily life in order to educate women. However, due to the economic difference between to genders, women are less likely to have access to ICT’s. \"IREX’s Tech Age Girls (TAG) program is addressing this gap in opportunity, providing more than 100 young women in Myanmar with the technology and leadership skills they need to achieve their goals and become agents of change.\"\n\nAccording to mid-September MIS Report from Nepal Telecommunication Authority, 53 percent of the Nepal population uses or has access to the internet. Some of the reasons for this divide are factors such as location, age, and education. Prior to the 1950s Nepal had closed itself off due to geopolitical reasons, however after the Ran Regime was abolished in 1951 the country began to adopt and develop many modern sciences within the government. A 2011 study has shown that while things like age and education levels did impact Internet usage, things such as income levels and telephone ownership did not and that over half of Nepal's Internet users apply the Internet to educational purposes rather than commercial or personal purposes. Lack of technology literacy in Nepal is also a major contributing factor to the widening of the divide.\n\nThe Nepal government usually focuses their resources on important necessities such as clean water, roads, and healthcare, as the country is still poor and developing and most of their population lives in rural parts of Nepal. People living in these rural areas are less likely to have access to technology, Internet, or phone lines.\n\nNepali is the national language of Nepal and is spoken by 44.6% of the Nepalese people. However, despite this, Nepal is home to 123 various languages. English is included in this and is spoken fluently at an estimated 2-10%. This mixture of diverse languages contributes to the digital divide as most computer content is written in English, making technology inaccessible to non-English speaking people who could otherwise afford and use a computer.\n\nThere have been some attempts to close or lessen the digital divide in Nepal, such as Mahabir Pun's Nepal Wireless Networking Project, which was launched with the intent to help bring wireless technologies. Some areas are also holding classes in digital literacy in order to help people in rural areas gain knowledge and experience with technology. The courses will provide the Nepalese with skills that they are able to utilize in their schooling and careers. The widening digital divide in Nepal has also prompted the government to step in, due to worries that the lack of digital literacy will have a negative impact on the country and its economy. Officials are working towards closing the gap by introducing new programs that will give people the ability to utilize technology more easily than before. Large brand name companies are also making efforts to eliminate the digital divide in Nepal. Microsoft Nepal is providing resources to improve digital literacy as well as increasing access to technology.\n\nThe digital divide in Nigeria is impacted by education, lack of electrical infrastructure, income, and urban drift, as well as a variety of other social and political factors contribute to Nigeria's growing digital divide. There have been efforts to reduce the digital divide by both government agencies and technology corporations.\n\nPakistan is one of the South Asian countries that does have internet access. Internet access in Pakistan began in the 1990s and has continued to grow over the past decades. In fact, Pakistan has about 32 million internet users. However, according to data collected by the World Bank, Pakistan has an overall population of about 193 million people. In addition, Pakistan also has about 15 million people who access the internet from their mobile devices. Pakistan has 5 broadband internet providers and 10 DSL. Broadband use through computers is the number one way that people access the internet in Pakistan. The second most popular way that people of Pakistan access the internet is through their cellular devices. Even though there are about 32 million internet user compared to a large population, Internet in Pakistan is ranked 20th in the world.\n\nPakistan has five major cell phone providers. The five are (in order from most to fewest subscribers): Jazz 51.88 million; Telenor 39.37 million; Zong 27.71 million; Ufone 18.46 million; and Warid 12 million. Recently in May 2017, the Pakistani government decided to lower tariffs and taxes on cellular services as well as on mobile phones. The reasons for this decision included years of pressure from the nation's top mobile operators and a World Bank report pointing out Pakistan's high taxing of telecom services in the region.\n\nIn rural Pakistan, cell service use is divided along gender lines. Karin Astrid Siegmann pointed out this disparity; 40 percent of female users have to ask permission from the male owners to make calls. Cell phones being in the hands of females is viewed unfavorably in Pakistani culture. According to one participant in the study, from the Muzzafargarh district in rural Pakistan, \"Women don't even know how to dial a number.\" Additionally, the percentage of women owning a cell phone is 36% compared to men at 78% overall.\n\nBesides gender, there is a distinct divide among castes. Newer castes rank much more highly on the Digital Access Index (DAI) than do the older castes. The same study compared two political parties. One political party, called the PTI (Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf), was composed of newer castes (Khan, Hashmi, Alvi, and Qureshi). The Muslim League is composed of older castes. The PTI outperformed the Pakistan Muslim League in number of foreign visitors to its web site, with a combined percentage of 12.7%, and in websites linking to it with 450, compared to the Muslim League's 168 (See Table 6 page 354). Ahsan Abdullah elaborates the important background of these findings: \"Members of the new caste traditionally have not been farmers; for example, members of the Sheikh caste are traditionally traders, and members of the Syed caste traditionally hold religious offices, and hence they have to be better educated as compared to the old caste members. The old caste members, who are traditionally farmers, require tacit knowledge more than education to be successful. This observation is supported by the higher literacy rate in new castes as compared to the old caste members, with Pathan, Sheikh, and Syed being the top three educated castes among the 12 castes considered.\"\n\nBesides Private efforts, Public efforts put forth by the Pakistani government would help bridge the digital divide. There is an ambitious undertaking called the Universal Services Fund which would aim to provide broadband coverage to the whole nation by 2018.\n\nIn the Philippines about 47 to 50% of the population can and has access to the Internet. Initially the Philippines only had BBS (Bulletin board system) access, however after March 29, 1994 the Philippine Network Foundation (PHNet) connected the country to the web via Sprint. As of 2010, 29.3 million Filipinos were using the internet. The digital divide is impacted by several factors that includes income and education. Jim-yong Kim, president of the World Bank Group, has stated that “We must continue to connect everyone and leave no one behind because the cost of lost opportunities is enormous. But for digital dividends to be widely shared among all parts of society, countries also need to improve their business climate, invest in people’s education and health, and promote good governance.”\n\nBased on Philippines government research, there is a noticeable rise of Internet use in the Philippines after it was first introduced on March 29, 1994. “They were connected to the internet via SprintLink”, this changed the Philippines culturally and politically. Social media is a leading motive for Internet use in the Philippines, but Internet use also plays a big part in their political communications. The Philippine presidential election of Estrada is where Internet use for politics started to take form. Due to the protests, Filipinos used Internet to display charges against Estrada.\n\nThe Philippines was the only country in the Southeast Asia region that had a declining youth literacy rate between the years of 1990 and 2004, according to data from the United Nations. This prompted major school reforms and in 2012, a K-12 school curriculum was introduced which included a year of kindergarten and two senior school years. The Department of Education in the Philippines (DepEd) goal for students who graduate from the K-12 curriculum is for these students to understand technology works and how they can benefit from it.\n\nThe curriculum of this program focuses on developing students to be comfortable with using computers and technology. Some examples are that in grade 4 students will learn how to use the basic functions of the computer, including the use of the internet and emailing, in safe ways. In grade 6, students will begin taking art classes to learn how to use technology for digital paintings and graphic designs. In grade 7, students will begin learning how to academically use the internet for journals and searching for academic sources for essays and other similar assignments. In the higher upper level grades, the curriculum will include schools that specialize in computer education as well as science and technology. The Philippines being able to close in on the technology gap after being so behind in the 90's and early 2000's is going to very much improve the graduation rate of the students now that they can study at home and use their sources to their advantage through tablets and computers instead of only being able to access their school work in the classroom.\n\nThe digital divide in Saudi Arabia is seen through their Internet usage statistics 47.5% of Saudi Arabians use the internet compared to 78.2% of the United States. Of the 47.5%, 83.87% of Saudi households use the internet and only 10% of these households have one internet user. Saudi Arabia, as of 2017, has 96% of women using the internet and 88% of men. In addition, both females and males use the internet almost equally.\n\nSouth Africa's Digital Divide is being bridged by programs like Isifundo. This program provides computer literacy for South Africans who would otherwise not receive any training. They set up centers that provide access to computers and the internet. Their Facebook keeps people up to date with computer related news and other helpful programs in South Africa.\n\nThe digital divide in South Korea is mainly caused by the unevenness of economic, regional, physical, or social opportunities, leading to marginalized persons not receiving the benefits that technology can bring. The lack of adaptation to the informatization of social services, such as administration and welfare, results in limited opportunities for basic daily life and social participation. South Korea's information gap was initially due to economic reasons and the difference in the initial cost for using the Internet or PC, but recently there has been a gap between the users of the information according to the degree of utilization of information. As the information society rapidly developed, the distribution of the Internet quickly accelerated in Korea, dividing people into two groups, people who are well adapted to the changes and those who are more familiar with the previous media. Although the percentage of local population with internet access is high in Korea, the average rate of internet usage is 99.9% for the young and 64.3% for the elderly.\n\nAs transiting society from industrial to de-industrial, information and knowledge can be substituted with capital and product in important social matter. \n\nHowever, the nature of information and knowledge, through commercialization process in capitalism, could make a greater problem than supposition. So, information and knowledge is different from previous product( shoes, clothes, food so on) in that information and knowledge’s cyclic process from creating and application to extinction is most fast. Also, those alteration in quantity and quality is unpredictable. From the nature of information and knowledge, those could make enormous social inequality(ex. class, state, sex, education, region etc.) Furthermore, a global effect feature, one of the information and knowledge’s nature, can deepen global inequality and further sharpen the 2080 society, called Pareto's law.\n\nThe most basic reason is the distribution of hardware. The most basic hardware in the information era is a computer, which creates an information gap between those who have difficulties buying a computer and those who do not. According to the '2016 Information Gap Index and Survey' in South Korea, which conducted by the Ministry of Information and Communication (MIC) on 6,300 people nationwide, while only 53.2% of the underprivileged people have personal computer, the average proportion of whole people are nearly 83%. Computer penetration rates are affected by many correlating variables such as region, education, and income and these variables can issue a complex impact. To overcome this difference, OLPC (One Laptop per child) is developing and also distributing $100 computer. In addition, a project for the free use of the internet such as the fund router project is in progress, but it is not widely available in Korea. As 'ubiquitous' becomes more and more popular, the distribution of small hardware is expected to grow even more and the digital divide is expected to deepen further.\n\nEducation is the most relevant part of income in Korea. Children whose lower income earners have less educational opportunities than higher incom earners. For this reason, the children of low educated are more likely to be a low educated students than those of highly educated people, and this phenomenon leads to a vicious cycle of social inequality. Because the information era is built on capitalism, this vicious circle is likely to lead to current society as well. Education is an important reason of digital divide. Without education on information society, it leads to poverty of information which causes to the economic discrimination. Most of all, considering the characteristics of knowledge which is explosively expanding, if education can not keep up with the pace of the informational change, it can cause education gap to be more severe. In order to solve this problem, continuous education is much more required rather than shot term education.\n\nThailand's digital divide is impacted by its status as a developing country within Southeast Asia as well as several other factors that include income, choice of technologies, and socioeconomic factors. ICT development and mobile penetration are strongly correlated with economic growth and social benefits.\n\nThe digital divide in the United States has decreased since it was initially detected, however there are still portions of the country and certain groups that have limited or no access. Groups impacted by the digital divide can include certain income brackets, ethnicities, and the less educated. There is also a gap between rural and non-rural areas in America. Rural Americans have made large gains in adopting digital technology in recent years, but they remain less likely than nonrural adults to have home broadband, smartphones and other devices. This is not necessarily because of a financial issue, but because of the lack of access and the poor internet connection due to the lack of towers and phone lines. Mobile technology use among rural adults has risen rapidly, however they are still leaps and bounds behind Americans in larger cities that have more access. As of 2016, approximately 11.5% of the total U.S. population did not have internet access. Out of the 324,118,787 Americans, there were 286,942,362 total internet users (88.5%).\n\nThe digital divide in Vietnam stems from sociopolitical, economic, and technological issues, but over the last decade the country has made great strides in providing large-scale Internet access and more lax restrictions in order to bridge this gap. Though the majority of Vietnam is rural, more than half of the country's population has access to the Internet. Despite these limitations on technology, organizations around the world are working directly with the people of Vietnam to close the digital divide.\n\nVietnam has a population of 96 million people, and 34.9% of the population is urban. Despite this, 53% of the country’s population currently has access to the Internet. According to a study conducted by market research company Statista in 2016, more than 91 percent of daily Internet users were between the ages of 25 and 34. However, despite the expansion in access, Internet quality remains poor in rural areas, and Vietnam ranks 16th among other Asian countries with the most Internet users. Vietnam also has a slower average data transfer speed than neighbor countries. Compared to Singapore’s average of 16.5 Mbit/s, Vietnam’s average is 5.0 Mbit/s.\n\nFor individuals with access to the Internet, government censorship becomes another obstacle because the three Internet service providers in Vietnam (FPT Telecom, Viet Nam Post and Telecommunications Corporation, and Viettel) are owned by the government and military. The Vietnamese government restricts user access to websites that are critical of the government or feature politically sensitive content, as well as the websites of select human rights organizations. In 2016, Facebook and Instagram were temporarily blocked in an effort by the government to crack down on social media due to rising unrest in Hanoi and Ho Chi Minh City. Hundreds of citizens protested in city streets regarding the government’s delayed response to an environmental disaster in which millions of dead fish washed ashore. It was believed by locals to be the fault of Formosa Plastics.\n\nIn 2011, The World Bank extended a project for an additional two years in an attempt to complete the process of installing software and conducting training. This technology and training would potentially allow for the expansion of small businesses, enhance current operating systems and disseminate information on a larger scale. Due to the slow Internet speeds in Vietnam, obtaining information was difficult. However, this attempt at closing the digital divide was unsuccessful and expensive, totaling 106.97 million US dollars. Although this project was unsuccessful, organizations are still working to solve the issue of the digital divide.\n"}
{"id": "27816298", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27816298", "title": "Diplomatic cable", "text": "Diplomatic cable\n\nA diplomatic cable, also known as a diplomatic telegram or embassy cable, is a confidential text message exchanged between a diplomatic mission, like an embassy or a consulate, and the foreign ministry of its parent country.\n\nThe term \"cable\" derives from the time when the medium for such communications was international submarine communications cables. The term \"cablegram\" is also sometimes used. Due to the importance and sensitive nature of the subject matter, diplomatic cables are protected by the most elaborate security precautions to prevent unfettered access by the public, and unauthorised interception by foreign governments. They are always encrypted, frequently by unbreakable one time pad ciphers using key material distributed using diplomatic couriers.\n\n"}
{"id": "37855063", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37855063", "title": "Drug nomenclature", "text": "Drug nomenclature\n\nDrug nomenclature is the systematic naming of drugs, especially pharmaceutical drugs. In the majority of circumstances, drugs have 3 types of names: chemical names, the most important of which is the IUPAC name; generic or nonproprietary names, the most important of which are the International Nonproprietary Names (INNs); and trade names, which are brand names. Generic names for drugs are nowadays constructed out of affixes and stems that classify the drugs into different categories and also separate drugs within categories. A marketed drug might also have a company code or compound code.\n\nThe chemical names are the scientific names, based on the molecular structure of the drug. There are various systems of chemical nomenclature and thus various chemical names for any one substance. The most important is the IUPAC name. Chemical names are typically very long and too complex to be commonly used in referring to a drug in speech or in prose documents. For example, \"1-(isopropylamino)-3-(1-naphthyloxy) propan-2-ol\" is a chemical name for propranolol. Sometimes, a company that is developing a drug might give the drug a company code, which is used to identify the drug while it is in development. For example, CDP870 was UCB’s company code for certolizumab pegol; UCB later chose \"Cimzia\" as its trade name. Many of these codes, although not all, have prefixes that correspond to the company name.\n\nDuring development, the company will apply for regulatory approval of the drug by the relevant national regulatory agency such as the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA); and it will apply for a generic (nonproprietary) name for that country, such as the United States Adopted Name (USAN) or Japanese Accepted Name (JAN). It will also apply for an International Nonproprietary Name (INN) through the World Health Organization (WHO). \n\nNowadays the national nonproprietary names are usually the same as the INN. The generic names usually indicate via their stems what drug class the drug belongs to. For example, one can tell that aciclovir is an antiviral drug because its name ends in the \"-vir\" suffix.\n\nFor combination drug products—those with 2 or more drugs combined into 1 dosage form—single nonproprietary names beginning with \"co-\" exist in both British Approved Name (BAN) form and in a formerly maintained USP name called the pharmacy equivalent name (PEN). Otherwise the 2 names are simply both given, joined by hyphens or slashes. For example, suspensions combining trimethoprim and sulfamethoxazole are called either trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole or co-trimoxazole. Similarly, co-codamol is codeine-acetaminophen, and co-triamterzide is triamterene-hydrochlorothiazide. The USP ceased maintaining PENs, but the similar \"co\"-prefixed BANs are still current.\n\nFor drugs that make it all the way through development, testing, and regulatory acceptance, the pharmaceutical company then gives the drug a trade name, which is a standard term in the pharmaceutical industry for a brand name or trademark name. For example, Lipitor is Pfizer's trade name for atorvastatin, a cholesterol-lowering medication. Also, Atocor is an Atorvastatin brand in India.\n\nDrug names are often subject to legal regulation, including approval for new drugs (to avoid confusion with existing drugs) and on packaging to establish clear rules about adulterants and fraudulent or misleading labeling. A national formulary is often designated to define drug names (and purity standards) for regulatory purposes. The legally approved names in various countries include:\n\nThe World Health Organization administers the international nonproprietary name list.\n\nIn the scientific literature, there is a set of strong conventions for drug nomenclature regarding the letter case and placement of nonproprietary and proprietary names, as follows: \n\nFor example, the 2015 American Society of Hematology (ASH) publication policies say, \"Non-proprietary (generic/scientific) names should be used and should be lowercase.\" ... \"[T]he first letter of the name of a proprietary drug should be capitalized.\" ... \"If necessary, you may include a proprietary name in parentheses directly following the generic name after its first mention.\"\n\nValid exceptions to the general pattern occur when a nonproprietary name starts a sentence (and thus takes a capital), when a proprietary name has intercapping (for example, GoLYTELY, MiraLAX), or when tall-man letters are used within nonproprietary names to prevent confusion of similar names (for example, predniSONE versus predniSOLONE).\n\nThe earliest roots of standardization of generic names for drugs began with city pharmacopoeias, such as the London, Edinburgh, Dublin, Hamburg, and Berlin Pharmacopoeias. The fundamental advances in chemistry during the 19th century made that era the first time in which what we now call chemical nomenclature, a huge profusion of names based on atoms, functional groups, and molecules, was necessary or conceivable. In the second half of the 19th century and the early 20th, city pharmacopoeias were unified into national pharmacopoeias (such as the British Pharmacopoeia, United States Pharmacopeia, Pharmacopoeia Germanica (PhG or PG), Italian Pharmacopeia, and Japanese Pharmacopoeia) and national formularies (such as the British National Formulary, the Australian Pharmaceutical Formulary, and the National Formulary of India). International pharmacopeias, such as the European Pharmacopoeia and the International Pharmacopoeia of the World Health Organization (WHO), have been the next level.\n\nIn 1953 the WHO created the International Nonproprietary Name (INN) system, which issues INNs in various languages, including Latin, English, French, Spanish, Russian, Chinese, and Arabic. Several countries also have national-level systems for creating generic drug names, including the British Approved Name (BAN) system, the Australian Approved Name (AAN) system, the United States Adopted Name (USAN) system (which is mostly the same as the United States Pharmacopeia (USP) system), and the Japanese Accepted Name (JAN) system. At least several of these national-level Approved Name/Adopted Name/Accepted Name systems were not created until the 1960s, after the INN system already existed. In the 21st century, increasing globalization is encouraging maximal rationalization for new generic names for drugs, and there is an increasing expectation that new USANs, BANs, and JANs will not differ from new INNs without special justification.\n\nDuring the first half of the 20th century, generic names for drugs were often coined by contracting the chemical names into fewer syllables. Such contraction was partially, informally, locally standardized, but it was not universally consistent. In the second half of the 20th century, the nomenclatural systems moved away from such contraction toward the present system of stems and affixes that show chemical relationships.\n\nGeneric names are used for a variety of reasons. They provide a clear and unique identifier for active chemical substances, appearing on all drug labels, advertising, and other information about the substance. Relatedly, they help maintain clear differentiation between proprietary and nonproprietary aspects of reality, which people trying to sell proprietary things have an incentive to obfuscate; they help people compare apples to apples. They are used in New Drug Applications for the US Food and Drug Administration, in scientific descriptions of the chemical, in discussions of the chemical in the scientific literature and descriptions of clinical trials.\n\nBiopharmaceuticals have posed a challenge in nonproprietary naming because unlike smaller molecules made with total synthesis or semisynthesis, there is less assurance of complete fungibility between products from different manufacturers. Somewhat like how wine may vary by strain of yeast and year of grape harvest, each one can be subtly different because living organisms are an integral part of production. The WHO MedNet community continually works to augment its system for biopharmaceuticals to ensure continued fulfillment of the goals served by having nonproprietary names. In recent years the development of the Biological Qualifier system has been an example.\n\nThe prefixes and infixes have no pharmacological significance and are used to separate the drug from others in the same class. Suffixes or stems may be found in the middle or more often the end of the drug name, and normally suggest the action of the drug. Generic names often have suffixes that define what class the drug is.\n\nSee also Time release technology > List of abbreviations for formulation suffixes.\n\nMore comprehensive lists can be found at the National Library of Medicine's Drug Information Portal or in Appendix VII of the USP Dictionary.\n\nIf name of the drug solanezumab were to be broken down, it would be divided into two parts like this: solane-zumab. -Zumab is the suffix for humanized monoclonal antibody. Monoclonal antibodies by definition contain only a single antibody clone and have binding specificity for one particular epitope. In the case of solanezumab, the antibody is designed to bond to the amyloid-β peptides which make up protein plaques on the neurons of people with Alzheimer's disease.\n\nMost commonly, a nonproprietary drug name has one widely agreed pronunciation in each language. For example, \"doxorubicin\" is consistently in English. Trade names almost always have one accepted pronunciation, because the sponsoring company who coined the name has an intended pronunciation for it.\n\nHowever, it is also common for a nonproprietary drug name to have two pronunciation variants, or sometimes three. For example, for paracetamol, both and are common, and one medical dictionary gives .\n\nSome of the variation comes from the fact that some stems and affixes have pronunciation variants. For example, the aforementioned third (and least common) pronunciation for \"paracetamol\" reflects the treatment of the \"acet\" affix as rather than (both are accepted for \"acetyl\"). Other variations arise from the degree to which spelling pronunciation plays a role in individuals' use of the words. When variations interact in speech, it sometimes produces the familiar reaction of \"You say /təˈmeɪtoʊ/, I say /təˈmɑːtoʊ/.\" Nevertheless, accepted variants for drug names reflect plausibility regarding chemistry and pharmacy. For example, just as is not an accepted third option for \"tomato\", is an implausible guess for \"phenothiazine\", given that \"pheno-\" and \"thiazine\" are predictable (thus ).\n\nThe World Health Organization does not give suggested pronunciations for its INNs, but familiarity with the typical sounds and spellings of the stems and affixes often points to the widely accepted pronunciation of any given INN. For example, \"abciximab\" is predictably , because for INNs ending in \"-ciximab\", the sound is familiar. The United States Pharmacopeia gives suggested pronunciations for most USANs in its \"USP Dictionary\", which is published in annual editions. Medical dictionaries give pronunciations of many drugs that are both commonly used and have been commercially available for a decade or more, although many newer drugs or less common drugs are not entered. Pharmacists also have access to pronunciations from various clinical decision support systems such as Lexi-comp.\n\n"}
{"id": "1889455", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1889455", "title": "Eleanor Roosevelt Award for Human Rights", "text": "Eleanor Roosevelt Award for Human Rights\n\nThe Eleanor Roosevelt Award for Human Rights was established in 1998 by the President of the United States Bill Clinton, honoring outstanding American promoters of rights in the United States.\n\nThe award was first awarded on the 50th anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, honoring Eleanor Roosevelt's role as the \"driving force\" in the development of the UN's Universal Declaration of Human Rights. The award was presented from 1998 to the end of the Clinton Administration in 2001.\n\nIn 2010, Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton revived the Eleanor Roosevelt Award for Human Rights and presented the award on behalf of President Obama.\n\n1998\n\n1999\n\n2000\n\n2001\n\n2010\n\n"}
{"id": "11256981", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11256981", "title": "European Social Movement", "text": "European Social Movement\n\nThe European Social Movement (ESM) was a neo-fascist Europe-wide alliance set up in 1951 to promote pan-European nationalism. \n\nThe ESM had its origins in the emergence of the Italian Social Movement (MSI), which established contacts with like-minded smaller groups in Europe during the late 1940s, setting up European Study Center and publishing a magazine \"Europa Unita\". On the back of this work they organised a conference in Rome in 1950 which was attended by Oswald Mosley, whose Union Movement was advocating closer European unity with its Europe a Nation policy, representatives of the Falange, allies of Gaston-Armand Amaudruz and other leading figures from the far right. After submitting plans for a centrally organised Europe a second congress followed in 1951 at Malmö, the home of Per Engdahl, where it was agreed that the ESM would be set up as an alliance to this end. Engdahl was chosen as leader of a four-man council to head up the group, also featuring MSI leader Augusto De Marsanich, French writer Maurice Bardèche and German activist Karl-Heinz Priester.\n\nThe ESM suffered early setbacks however, arguing that a war against communism was, at least initially, impractical for a united Europe, whilst some delegates felt that racialism had not been sufficiently underlined as necessary for the new Europe. These problems proved particularly acute for some members of the French \"Comité National Français\", with leading members René Binet and Maurice Bardèche quitting both the French group and the ESM as a whole, before becoming instrumental in the formation of the New European Order.\n\nContinuing its activity despite the split, the ESM encountered difficulties in 1956 when a delegate was invited to the annual conference of the MSI. Following his attendance he recommended a total split from the MSI, whom he accused of being too preoccupied with Italian politics to be of use to pan-Europeanism. With divisions growing and competition from other movements biting the movement had largely become moribund by 1957. Its role was later taken over by the similar National Party of Europe, which had many of the same members but was more formalised.\n\n"}
{"id": "24503946", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24503946", "title": "Frente Negra Brasileira", "text": "Frente Negra Brasileira\n\nFrente Negra Brasileira (\"Black Brazilian Front\"), part of the Black Movement of Brazil, was Brazil's first Black political party. Formed in 1931 and active until the November 10, 1937 suspension of political parties by the then president, Getúlio Vargas, the Frente mobilized Brazil's Afro-Descendant community for a project of racial equality. Desegregation campaigns and popular education focusing on literacy were just two of the ways the Frente engaged in activism.\n\nThe party was organized by Arlindo Veiga dos Santos following the Revolution of 1930. It was the first national organization of Afro-Brazilians. The party spread from São Paulo to most of the major states in Brazil including Minas Gerais, Espirito Santo, Bahia, and Rio Grande do Sul. A majority of the chapters were located in São Paulo, Minas Gerais, and Rio Grande do Sul. Many of the chapters were informal and lacked a connection to the main organization.\n\nFrente Negra Brasileira was very active within the community and provided social gatherings and services as well as addressing the political concerns of its members. On December 17, 1931, in the first year of its existence, the Frente Negra Brasileira achieved one of its first success stories, the desegregation of public skating rinks. This was following protest by the group to police and threats of violence if the rinks were not shut down. As a political party, the Frente Negra Brasileira also would run candidates for political office, and although they never successfully put a candidate in office they were able to dramatically increase the number of registered voters before the 1934 election. Outside of the political concerns addressed, Frente Negra Brasileira also provided services to its members including literacy and vocational classes, health clinics, jazz and samba bands, and legal services. On Sunday nights, the group would host a \"domingueira\" that was a meeting open to the public. These meetings would last roughly 4 hours and became a social gathering for members of the community. During these events, the first part was for business and the directors would speak about what was going on, but afterwards there was time for music and poetry. Throughout their existence, the Frente Negra Brasileira published a newspaper, \"A Voz da Raça\" (The Voice of the Race), which provided news about black communities in Brazil and around the world.\n\nButler, Kim D. \"Up from Slavery: Afro-Brazilian Activism in Sao Paulo, 1888-1938.\" \"The Americas\" 49.2 (1992): 179-206.\n\nKimberly Jones-de-Oliveira, \"The Politics of Culture or the Culture of Politics: Afro-Brazilian Mobilization, 1920-1968,\" \"Journal of Third World Studies\", v. 20, part I (2003)\n\nReichmann, Rebecca Lynn. \"Race in Contemporary Brazil: From Indifference to Inequality\". University Park, PA: Pennsylvania State UP, 1999.\n\n"}
{"id": "28103720", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28103720", "title": "Graduate Institute of Peace Studies, Kyung Hee University", "text": "Graduate Institute of Peace Studies, Kyung Hee University\n\nThe Graduate Institute of Peace Studies (GIP) was established in 1984 with the aim of training potential world leaders to possess a vision of a new global civil society, and are committed to the promotion of peace and human welfare. GIP is a constituent graduate school at Kyung Hee University. In recognition of the GIP's contribution to international peace efforts, the UNESCO Prize for Peace Education was awarded to GIP in 1993. All classes and official events are conducted in English\n\n"}
{"id": "30857867", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30857867", "title": "Great grain robbery", "text": "Great grain robbery\n\nThe great grain robbery was the July 1972 purchase of 10 million tons of United States grain (mainly wheat and corn) by the Soviet Union at subsidized prices, which resulted in higher grain prices in the United States. Grain prices soon reached 125-year highs in Chicago. In a 10-month span, soybeans went from $3.31 to $12.90 a bushel. Food prices around the world rose 50% in 1973. The U.S. government spent $300 million and by unwittingly subsidizing the Russian purchases, this event helped lead to the U.S. government seeking more information about global agricultural output via infrared satellite intelligence.\n\nThis event was referred to in U.S. media of the time as \"The Russian Wheat Deal\" or \"The Soviet Wheat Deal\". The term \"Great Grain Robbery\" is a pun referring to the \"Great Train Robbery\". Author Martha Hamilton introduced the term as the title of Chapter VII of her book \"The Great American Grain Robbery & Other Tales\", as part of an allegation that the U.S. government was robbing American taxpayers in order to support grain trading companies. The terms \"Russian wheat deal\" and \"Soviet wheat deal\" fell into disuse since the sales included corn, barley and oats as well as wheat.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30963472", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30963472", "title": "Hanoch Kalai", "text": "Hanoch Kalai\n\nHanoch Kalai (March 13, 1910 – April 15, 1979) () was a member of Irgun and Lehi, and an expert on the Hebrew language. He was \"Deputy Commander in Chief\" of Irgun under David Raziel and spent three months as \"Commander in Chief\" after Raziel was imprisoned by the British authorities, until his own arrest.\n\nKalai was born in Lithuania, the son of Joseph and Pessia Strelitz. In 1924, the family moved to Palestine, where family lived on Herzl Street in Kfar Saba and his father became a bank manager in the town. Following the 1929 Palestine riots, Kalai joined the Haganah. He was also a member of the Betar movement.\n\nOn the final night of Passover in 1933, Betar members were attacked while parading in Tel Aviv. In retaliation, Kalai and Avraham Tehomi resigned from Haganah, and together they joined the Irgun. Kalai was appointed Irgun commander for Kfar Saba and Herzliya. During the 1936–1939 Arab revolt in Palestine, Kalai demanded an end to the policy of restraint and the beginning of reprisals against the Arabs.\n\nFollowing Tehomi's split with Irgun and return to Hagana in 1937, Kalai was appointed commander of the newly formed Haifa district Irgun under Moshe Rosenberg. He was later appointed deputy commander of the Jerusalem district under David Raziel. During this period, Kalai also served as a broadcaster on the Irgun's underground radio station, Kol Tsion HaLokhemet.\n\nKalai's three brothers were also members of Irgun and Betar. Mordechai Strelitz was an Irgun commander in Israel and abroad, and served as liaison between Irgun and Betar. Menachem Strelitz was a member of the Irgun in Kfar Saba, where he conducted experiments with weapons and explosives. He was killed at age 22 on July 17, 1936 when a grenade exploded in his hands in the family home. Mykhael Strelitz was arrested by the British and tortured. He never recovered from the experience.\n\nFollowing Raziel's arrest on May 19, 1939, Kalai was appointed as \"Commander in Chief\" of the Irgun. At the first meeting he chaired, Kalai decided to act on two fronts: to continue retaliatory actions against the Arabs, and the commencement of operations against the British government following Parliament's approval of the White Paper of 1939. In following this policy, Irgun committed acts of sabotage against the infrastructure, including the post office and the government radio station in Jerusalem. Under Kalai's leadership, the group also assassinated the Palestine Police CID chief Ralph Cairns, to end his harassment of Irgun and in revenge for his alleged torture of Irgun prisoners.\n\nOn August 31, 1939, the British arrested him with other key members of Irgun, including Avraham Stern, during a command meeting in Tel Aviv. He was replaced as head of Irgun by Benjamin Zeroni. The detainees were transferred to the Jaffa police station, and then to the Tzrifin detention camp. Kalai and the other prisoners were released on June 18, 1940.\n\nFollowing his release, Kalai and Zeroni joined Avraham Stern who in July 1940 formed the Lehi (group), where Kalai wrote the new organization's manifesto. Kalai and Zeroni resigned from Lehi in late 1941 following Stern's attempts to form an alliance with Nazi Germany against the British.\n\nIn January 1941, the British police posted a £1000 reward for his arrest, and on February 4, 1942 Kalai and Zeroni surrendered. According to Yehuda Lapidot, one of the reasons they surrendered is that no organization would help them, and they increasingly felt like hunted animals. By agreement with the British police, they were never tried, but instead were transferred directly to a detention camp. On October 19, 1944, Kalai was exiled to a Kenyan detention camp along with 250 other detainees, and returned to Israel only on July 12, 1948.\n\nAfter Israel gained independence, Kalai became a language lecturer at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem. He was also an editor and translator to Hebrew from English, German and Yiddish, an editor at the Bialik Institute, a member of the Academy of the Hebrew Language, and the Israel Broadcasting Authority plenum member responsible for Hebrew-language broadcasts. He translated Zorba the Greek into Hebrew, the first title in Am Oved's People's Library imprint. He also translated Virginia Woolf's .\n\nKalai was married to painter and sculptor Carmela Kalai. His son is noted academic Gil Kalai.\n\nKalai died in 1979, and was buried on the Mount of Olives in Jerusalem. In 1999, the Jerusalem Municipality named a street after him in the Malha district of the city.\n"}
{"id": "50955966", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50955966", "title": "Hazardous Material Emergency Alarm System", "text": "Hazardous Material Emergency Alarm System\n\nHazardous Material Emergency Alarm Systems (HMEAS) are stand-alone systems for protecting people from exposure to dangerous substances in the workplace.\n\nThese systems are designed for a wide variety of commercial and industrial environments including refineries, industrial processes and warehousing, educational and commercial research facilities as well as hospitals and even restaurants. The systems are designed to both alert and respond – activating warnings and alarms and depending on the extent of the danger, triggering corrective actions that could include material shutoffs, increased ventilation and the opening or closing of access to the exposed area.\n\nHazardous Material Emergency Alarm Systems (HMEAS) should be designed to meet the safety requirements embodied in the Building and Fire Codes used throughout North America and Europe,\n"}
{"id": "668147", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=668147", "title": "Hellenization", "text": "Hellenization\n\nHellenization or Hellenisation is the historical spread of ancient Greek culture, religion and, to a lesser extent, language, over foreign peoples conquered by Greeks or brought into their sphere of influence, particularly during the Hellenistic period following the campaigns of Alexander the Great in the fourth century BC. The result of Hellenization was that elements of Greek origin combined in various forms and degrees with local elements; these Greek influences spread from the Mediterranean basin as far east as modern-day Pakistan. In modern times, Hellenization has been associated with the adoption of modern Greek culture and the ethnic and cultural homogenization of Greece.\n\nThe first known use of verb \"to Hellenize\" (ἑλληνίζειν) is by Thucydides, who wrote that the Amphilochian Argives were linguistically Hellenized by the Ambraciots. It is also used in 2_Maccabees and the Book of Acts The precise meaning is disputed but scholars believe the meaning of the word was not limited to \"Greek-speaking\".\n\nBy the 4th century BC the process of Hellenization had started in southwestern Anatolia's Lycia, Caria and Pisidia regions. (1st century fortifications at Pelum in Galatia, on Baş Dağ in Lycaonia and at Isaura are the only known Hellenistic-style structures in central and eastern Anatolia).\nWhen it was advantageous to do so, places like Side and Aspendos invented Greek-themed origin myths; an inscription published in SEG shows that in the 4th century BC Aspendos claimed ties to Argos, similar to Nikokreon of Cyprus who also claimed Argive lineage. (Argos was home to the Kings of Macedon.) Like the Argeads, the Antigonids claimed descent from Heracles, the Seleucids from Apollo, and the Ptolemies from Dionysus.\nThe Seuthopolis inscription was very influential in the modern study of Thrace. The inscription mentions Dionysus, Apollo and some Samothracian gods. Scholars have interpreted the inscription as evidence of Hellenization in inland Thrace during the early Hellenisitc, but this has been challenged by recent scholarship.\n\nHellenization, however, had its limitations. For example, areas of southern Syria that were affected by Greek culture entailed mostly Seleucid urban centres, where Greek was commonly spoken. The countryside, on the other hand, was largely unaffected, with most of its inhabitants speaking Syriac and clinging to their native traditions.\n\nArchaeological evidence alone gives only an incomplete picture of Hellenization; it is often not possible to state with certainty whether particular archaeological findings belonged to Greeks, Hellenized indigenous peoples, indigenous people who simply owned Greek-style objects or some combination of these groups. Thus, literary sources are also used to help researchers interpret archaeological findings.\n\nIn 1909, a commission appointed by the Greek government reported that a third of the villages of Greece should have their names changed, often because of their non-Greek origin. In other instances, names were changed from a contemporary name of Greek origin to the ancient Greek name. Some village names were formed from a Greek root word with a foreign suffix or vice versa. Most of the name changes took place in areas populated by ethnic Greeks in which a strata of foreign or divergent toponyms had accumulated over the centuries. However, in some parts of northern Greece, the population was not Greek-speaking, and many of the former toponyms had reflected the diverse ethnic and linguistic origins of their inhabitants.\n\nThe process of the change of toponyms in modern Greece has been described as a process of Hellenization. A modern use is in connection with policies pursuing \"cultural harmonization and education of the linguistic minorities resident within the modern Greek state\" (the Hellenic Republic): the Hellenization of minority groups in modern Greece. The term Hellenisation (or Hellenization) is also used in the context of Greek opposition to the use of the Macedonian language in the Greek province of Macedonia\n\nIn 1870, the Greek government abolished all Italian schools in the Ionian islands, which had been annexed to Greece six years earlier. That led to the diminution of the community of Corfiot Italians, which had lived in Corfu since the Middle Ages; by the 1940s, there were only 400 Corfiot Italians left.\n\nHellenization reached Pisidia and Lycia sometime in the 4th century BC, but the interior remained largely unaffected for several more centuries until it came under Roman rule in the 1st century BC. Ionian, Aeolian and Doric settlers along Anatolia's Western coast seemed to have remained culturally Greek and some of their city-states date back to the Archaic Period. On the other hand, Greeks who settled in the southwestern region of Pisidia and Pamphylia seem to have been assimilated by the local culture.\n\nPanticapaeum (modern day Kerch) was one of the early Greek colonies in Crimea. It was founded by Miletus around 600 BC on a site with good terrain for a defensive acropolis. By the time the Cimmerian colonies had organized into the Bosporan Kingdom around much of the local native population had been Hellenized. Most scholars date the establishment of the kingdom to 480 BC, when the Archaeanactid dynasty assumed control of Panticapaeum, but classical archaeologist Gocha R. Tsetskhladze has dated the kingdom's founding to 436 BC, when the Spartocid dynasty replaced the ruling Archaeanactids.\n\nThe Hellenistic Seleucid and Ptolemaic kingdoms that formed after Alexander's death were particularly relevant to the history of Judaism. Located between the two kingdoms, Israel experienced long periods of warfare and instability. Judea fell under Seleucid control in 198 BC. By the time Antiochus IV Epiphanes became king of Judea in 175 BC, Jerusalem was already somewhat Hellenized. In 170 BC, both claimants to the High Priesthood, Jason and Menelaus, bore Greek names. Jason had established institutions of Greek education and in later years Jewish culture started to be suppressed including forbidding circumcision and observance of the Sabbath.\n\nHellenization of members of the Jewish elite included names, clothes but other customs were adapted by the rabbis and elements that violated the halakha and midrash were prohibited. One example is the elimination of some aspects of Hellenistic banquets such as the practice of offering libations to the gods, while incorporating certain elements that gave the meals a more Jewish character. Discussion of Scripture, the singing of sacred songs and attendance of students of the Torah was encouraged. One detailed account of Jewish-style Hellenistic banquets comes from Ben Sira. There is literary evidence from Philo about the extravagance of Alexandrian Jewish banquets and \"The Letter of Aristeas\" discusses Jews dining with non-Jews as an opportunity to share Jewish wisdom.\n\nPamphylia is a plain located between the highlands of Lycia and Cilicia. The exact date of Greek settlement in the region is not known; one possible theory is that settlers arrived in the region as part of Bronze Age maritime trade between the Aegean, Levant and Cyprus, while another attributes it to population movements during the instability of the Bronze Age Collapse. The Greek dialect established in Pamphylia by the Classical period was related to Arcado-Cypriot. \n\nMopsus is a legendary founder of several coastal cities in southwestern Anatolia, including Aspendos, Phaselis, Perge and Sillyon. A bilingual Phoenecian and neo-Hittite Luwian inscription found at Karatepe, dated to 800 BC, says that the ruling dynasty there traced their origins to Mopsus. Mopsus, whose name is also attested to in Hittite documents, may originally have been an Anatolian figure that became part of the cultural traditions of Pamphylia's early Greek settlers. Attested to in Linear B texts, he is given a Greek genealogy as a descendent of Manto and Apollo.\n\nFor centuries the indigenous population exerted considerable influence on Greek settlers, but after the 4th century BC this population quickly started to become Hellenized. Very little is known about Pisidia prior to the 3rd century, but there is quite a bit of archeological evidence that dates to the Hellenistic period. Literary evidence, however, including inscriptions and coins are limited. During the 3rd and 2nd centuries, native regional tongues were abandoned in favor of koine Greek and settlements began to take on characteristics of Greek \"polis\".\n\nThe Iron Age Panemoteichos I may be an early precursor to later regional Hellenistic settlements including Selge, Termessos and Sagalssos (believed to be the three most prominent cities of Hellenistic Pisidia). The site is evidence of \"urban organization\" that predates the Greek \"polis\" by 500 years. Based on Panemoteichos I and other Iron Age sites, including the Phrygian Midas şehri and the Cappadocian fortification of Kerkenes, experts believe that \"behind the Greek influence that shaped the Hellenistic Pisidian communities there lay a tangible and important Anatolian tradition.\" \n\nAccording to the writings of Arrian the population of Side, who traced their origins to Aeolian Cyme, had forgotten the Greek language by the time Alexander arrived at the city in 334 BC. There are coins and stone inscriptions that attest to a unique script from the region but the language has only been partially deciphered.\n\nThe latest dateable coins found at the Phrygian capital of Gordion are from the 2nd century BC. Finds from the abandoned Hellenistic era settlement include imported and locally-produced imitation Greek-style terracotta figurines and ceramics. Inscriptions show that some of the inhabitants had Greek names, while others had Anatolian or possibly Celtic names.\nMany Phrygian cult objects were Hellenized during the Hellenistic period, but worship of traditional deities like the Phrygian mother goddess persisted. Greek cults attested to include Hermes, Kybele, the Muses and Tyche.\n\nGreek art and culture reached Phoenicia by way of commerce before any Greek cities were founded in Syria. but Hellenization of Syrians in not widespread until it becomes a Roman province . Under Roman rule in the 1st century BC there is evidence of Hellenistic style funerary architecture, decorative elements, mythological references, and inscriptions. However, there is a lack of evidence from Hellenistic Syria; concerning this most scholars view it as a case of \"absence of evidence is not evidence of absence\".\n\nThe Bactrians, an Iranian ethnic group who lived in Bactria (northern Afghanistan), were Hellenized during the reign of the Greco-Bactrian Kingdom and soon after various tribes in northwestern regions of the Indian subcontinent underwent Hellenization during the reign of the Indo-Greek Kingdom.\n\nThe periodization of the Hellenistic Age, between the conquests of Alexander the Great up to Octavians victory at the Battle of Actium, has been attributed to the 19th-century historian J. G. Droysen. According to this model the spread of Greek culture spread during this period made the rise of Christianity possible. Later, in the 20th century, scholars questioned this 19th-century paradigm for failing to account for the contributions of Semitic and other Near Eastern cultures. \n\nThe twentieth century witnessed a lively debate over the extent of Hellenization in the Levant, particularly among the ancient Jews, which has continued until today. Interpretations on the rise of Early Christianity, which was applied most famously by Rudolf Bultmann, used to see Judaism as largely unaffected by Hellenism, and the Judaism of the diaspora was thought to have succumbed thoroughly to its influences. Bultmann thus argued that Christianity arose almost completely within those Hellenistic confines and should be read against that background, as opposed to a more traditional Jewish background. With the publication of Martin Hengel's two-volume study \"Hellenism and Judaism\" (1974, German original 1972) and subsequent studies \"Jews, Greeks and Barbarians: Aspects of the Hellenisation of Judaism in the pre-Christian Period\" (1980, German original 1976) and \"The 'Hellenisation' of Judaea in the First Century after Christ\" (1989, German original 1989), the tide began to turn decisively. Hengel argued that virtually all of Judaism was highly Hellenized well before the beginning of the Christian era, and even the Greek language was well-known throughout the cities and even the smaller towns of Jewish Palestine. Scholars have continued to nuance Hengel's views, but almost all believe that strong Hellenistic influences were throughout the Levant, even among the conservative Jewish communities, which were the most nationalistic.\n\nIn his introduction to the 1964 book \"Meditations\", Anglican priest Maxwell Staniforth discussed the profound influence of Stoic philosophy on Christianity:\n\nAgain in the doctrine of the Trinity, the ecclesiastical conception of Father, Word, and Spirit finds its germ in the different Stoic names of the Divine Unity. Thus Seneca, writing of the supreme Power which shapes the universe, states, 'This Power we sometimes call the All-ruling God, sometimes the incorporeal Wisdom, sometimes the holy Spirit, sometimes Destiny.' The Church had only to reject the last of these terms to arrive at its own acceptable definition of the Divine Nature; while the further assertion 'these three are One', which the modern mind finds paradoxical, was no more than commonplace to those familiar with Stoic notions.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3716676", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3716676", "title": "High Treason Incident", "text": "High Treason Incident\n\nThe , also known as the , was a socialist-anarchist plot to assassinate the Japanese Emperor Meiji in 1910, leading to a mass arrest of leftists, and the execution of 12 alleged conspirators in 1911.\n\nOn 20 May 1910, the police searched the room of Miyashita Takichi (1875–1911), a young lumbermill employee in Nagano Prefecture, and found materials which could be used to construct bombs. Investigating further, the police arrested his accomplices, Nitta Tōru (1880–1911), Niimura Tadao (1887–1911), Furukawa Rikisaku (1884–1911) and Kōtoku Shūsui and his former common-law wife, feminist author Kanno Suga. Upon questioning, the police discovered what the prosecutor's office regarded as a nationwide conspiracy against the Japanese monarchy.\n\nIn the subsequent investigation, many known leftists and suspected sympathizers were brought in for questioning around the country. Eventually, 25 men and one woman were brought to trial on the charge of violation of Article 73 of the Criminal Code (harming or intending harm to the Emperor or member of the imperial family). Four of those arrested were Buddhist monks. The case was tried in a closed court, and the prosecutor was Hiranuma Kiichirō.\n\nEvidence against the defendants was mainly circumstantial. Nonetheless, twenty-four of the twenty-six defendants were sentenced to death by hanging on 18 January 1911, and the remaining two defendants were sentenced to 8 years and 11 years respectively for violation of explosives ordinances. \n\nOf the death sentences, an Imperial Rescript commuted twelve to life imprisonment on the following day. Of the remaining twelve, eleven were executed on 24 January 1911. These included Shūsui, a prominent Japanese anarchist, Ōishi Seinosuke, a doctor, and Uchiyama Gudō, the only one of the Buddhist priests arrested to be executed. The last of the condemned defendants, the only woman, Kanno, was executed the next day.\n\nThe case was largely used as a pretext by authorities to round up dissidents. Only five or six of those accused and convicted in the trial actually had anything to do with the plot to kill the emperor. Even the foremost defendant, Shūsui, had not been involved in the plot since the very earliest stages, but his high prestige made him the principal figure to the prosecution.\n\nThe High Treason Incident is indirectly related to The Red Flag Incident of 1908. During the High Treason investigation, anarchists already incarcerated were questioned about possible involvement, including Ōsugi Sakae, Sakai Toshihiko, and Yamakawa Hitoshi. Being already in jail saved many from facing further charges. Kanno, who was found not guilty during the Red Flag trials, was arrested, tried, and sentenced to death in the High Treason trials.\n\nThe High Treason Incident created a shift in the intellectual environment of the late Meiji period towards more control and heightened repression for ideologies deemed potentially subversive. It is often cited as one of the factors leading to the promulgation of the Peace Preservation Laws.\n\nA plea for a retrial was submitted after the end of the Second World War but this was turned down by the Supreme Court in 1967.\n"}
{"id": "47224910", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47224910", "title": "Inter-American Commission of Women", "text": "Inter-American Commission of Women\n\nThe Inter-American Commission of Women (CIM) is an organization that falls within the Organization of American States. It was established in 1928 by the Sixth Pan-American Conference and is composed of one female representative from each Republic in the Union. It was continued in 1933 and in 1938 was made a permanent organization, with the goal of studying and addressing women’s issues in the Americas. It was the first intergovernmental organization designed specifically to address the civil and political needs of women.\n\nIt was the first international organization ever to present a resolution for international suffrage for women in 1933. It was the first organization to submit a treaty which was adopted concerning women's rights—the 1933 Convention on the Nationality of Women, which provided that marriage did not affect nationality. The women of the CIM submitted a resolution and attained the first international acknowledgement of women's political and civil rights (1938). They also researched and prepared the first ever resolution on violence against women which was approved as the 1994 Convention of Belém do Pará. These firsts were based upon a strategy that has been followed by the women delegates of the CIM. By attaining international agreements, they are able to pressure change in their home countries to comply with those resolutions.\n\nWhen it became known that one of the three topics to be discussed at the 1930 meeting of the League of Nations would be the subject of nationality and how that could be codified in international law, Doris Stevens, a well-known feminist from the United States determined that the first priority of feminists should be to study how law effected women's nationality. For example, at the time, upon marrying, a British woman would have lost her British citizenship had she married an Argentine, but as Argentina's law did not confer citizenship upon her for marriage, she became stateless. Stevens worked with Alice Paul of the National Woman's Party of the United States to review and prepare a report evaluating how women were effected by various laws. The women compiled a monumental report, which indexed all laws controlling women's nationality from every country in their native language and then translated each law on an accompanying page.\n\nStevens spent three months in Europe meeting with women leaders and compiling information. She met with Dr. Luisa Baralt of Havana, Dr. Ellen Gleditsch of Oslo, Chrystal Macmillan and Sybil Thomas, Viscountess Rhondda of the UK, the Marquesa del Ter of Spain, Maria Vérone of France and Hélène Vacaresco of Romania, as well as various officers of the International Federation of University Women and others. She held public meetings to discuss the question of nationality in Geneva, London and Paris and attended a meeting at the Assembly of the League of Nations to obtain approval of a resolution for governments to attend a meeting discussing codification of laws and encouraged them to include women in their delegate selections. The resolution was submitted and passed unanimously. In anticipation of a cooperative meeting between women in Europe and the Americas a conference was held at the Pan American Union to present the topic of women's nationality.\n\nAs a result, the governing body of the Pan American Union created the Inter-American Commission of Women at their meeting in Havana on 4 April 1928. The provision called for a commission composed of seven women from the countries of the Americas and that those women should review data and prepare information to allow the Seventh Pan American Conference to consider women's civil and political equality in the region. It also called for expansion of the commission to eventually have one delegate for each country in the Pan American Union. Stevens, who had suggested the commission was appointed as chair and the other six countries were selected by lot. The chosen countries were Argentina, Colombia, El Salvador, Haiti, Panama, and Venezuela and the appointed delegates were Dr. Ernestina A. López de Nelson from Argentina, María Elena de Hinestrosa from Colombia, María Alvárez de Guillén Rivas from El Salvador, Alice Téligny Mathon from Haiti, Clara González from Panama and Lucila Luciani de Pérez Díaz from Venezuela.\n\nThe headquarters of the CIM were to be located in Washington DC in the offices of the Pan-American Union, but there was no organized staff and only some of the women had the backing of their governments. Most were chosen from the women’s organizations in their countries. To foster on-going unity and continuity, the women decided to meet every two years, in addition to meeting for the scheduled Pan-American Conferences. As such, the first meeting was held in Havana in 1930. The members were, Flora de Oliveira Lima (Brazil), Aída Parada (Chile), Lydia Fernández (Costa Rica), Elena Mederos de González (Cuba), Gloria Moya de Jiménez (Dominican Republic), Irene de Peyré (Guatemala), Margarita Robles de Mendoza (Mexico), Juanita Molina de Fromen (Nicaragua), Clara González (Panama), Teresa Obregoso de Prevost (Peru), and Doris Stevens (USA). As their governments provided no funding for their attendance, only the women from Cuba, the Dominican Republic, Nicaragua, Panama, the United States and delegates from Alicia Ricode de Herrera (Colombia), MMe Fernand Dennis (Haiti), El Salvador by proxy and Cecilia Herrera de Olavarría (Venezuela) were able to attend, A group of psychiatrists, who had asked if they could attend and observe the meeting, intimidated the women and little was accomplished.\n\nAt the Seventh Pan-American Conference, held in Montevideo, Uruguay the women presented their analysis of the legal status of women in each of the twenty-one countries in the Pan-American Union. It was the first report ever to study in detail the civil and political rights of women and it had been prepared solely by women. The conference considered and rejected the proposed Treaty on the Equality of Rights for Women, though it was signed by Cuba, Ecuador, Paraguay, and Uruguay. Three of those states had already granted suffrage to women, and none of the four ratified the Treaty after the conference. However, the women had presented the first international resolution to recommend suffrage for women.\n\nThe women presented their materials which showed the disparity between rights of men and women. For example, in 16 countries of the Americas women could not vote at all, in two countries they could vote with restrictions and in three countries they had equal enfranchisement. In 19 of the American countries, women did not have equal custody over their children, including in 7 US states and only 2 countries allowed joint authority for women of their own children. None of the Latin American countries allowed women to serve on juries and 27 US states prohibited women from participating in juries. Divorce grounds in 14 countries and 28 states were disparate for men and women and a woman could not administer her own separate property in thirteen countries and two US states.\n\nConference reviewed the data and approved the first international agreement ever adopted concerning the women's rights—the Convention on the Nationality of Women. The instrument made it clear that should a woman marry a man of a different nationality, her citizenship could be retained. The specific language was, “There shall be no distinction based on sex as regards to nationality.” In addition, the conference passed the Convention on Nationality which established that neither marriage nor divorce could affect the nationality of the members of a family, extending citizenship protection to children as well. The Roosevelt administration argued that the women's job had been completed. Rather than voting for a continuation of the CIM, the Conference voted as a unit, with the exception of Argentina, to block the US proposal to shut down the women.\n\nAt the 1938 Conference of the Pan-American States, held in Lima, Peru, the US delegation introduced two resolutions. The first, which was actually aimed at wresting control of CIM from Doris Stevens, proposed reorganizing the Inter-American Commission of Women, making it permanent and giving each government the means to appoint their own “official” representative. Disregarding the other delegates’ lack of support, the Roosevelt administration maintained that Stevens was not an official US representative as she had been appointed by the Pan-American Union and appointed Mary Nelson Winslow of the US Department of Labor’s Women’s Bureau as their delegate. Ultimately, the US initiative was adopted and the CIM was fully reorganized between 1938 and 1940 as a subsidiary commission of the Pan-American Union. It lost its autonomy becoming an official governmental entity bound by state aims, but gained official financing and support.\n\nThe other was a resolution endorsing protective legislation for women. Feminismo Peruano ZAC, the primary suffrage organization in Peru, publicly took a position similar to the US and split from the oﬃcial position of Stevens and CIM to back the Equal Rights Treaty. The Peruvian women, couched their plea for suffrage in terms of protection of traditional values of the church, the family, charity and honor. Giving women the vote so that they could help protect these fundamental goals of the nation, the Lima Declaration in favor of Women's Rights proposed that women rights included “political treatment on the basis of equality with men, [and] to the enjoyment of equality as to civil status…to full protection in and opportunity for work, [and] to the most ample protection as mothers”. The resolution was approved and was the first international acknowledgement of women's political and civil rights leading the way for other international organizations to follow suit.\n\nIn November 1939, the CIM headquarters were moved to Buenos Aires and the chairmanship of the organization passed from Winslow to Ana Rosa de Martínez Guerrero of Argentina. During the 1940s United States’ backing of women’s political rights supported the emancipation goals of the CIM, which increasingly called for its delegates to adopt proactive roles for suffrage. Voting rights were passed in El Salvador in 1939 and the Dominican Republic in 1942. The CIM delegates drafted multiple resolutions calling on the governments of the Americas to grant women suffrage and the 1943 meeting required delegates to work for both civil and political rights for women in their home countries instead of just observing and reporting on women's statuses. As further incentive, bulletins began to specifically mention delegates' activities, and what progress was being made. The 1944 assembly included women delegates from 19 of the 21 member countries of the Pan-American Union and 1945 saw Guatemala and Panama granting enfranchisement, followed by Argentina and Venezuela in 1947. In October 1945, the CIM delegation successfully moved that the phrase “the equal rights of men and women” be inserted into the United Nations Charter, citing the precedent of the 1938 Lima Declaration.\n\nThe 9th Pan-American Conference, held in Bogotá, Colombia, in 1948 culminated in the passage of two resolutions: the Inter-American Convention on Granting of Political Rights to Women and the Inter-American Convention on the Granting of Civil Rights to Women. With the Conference approval for the creation of the Organization of American States, the CIM was brought under its umbrella and became an international forum for bringing women’s issues into public discourse.\n\nThe push for suffrage of all member states continued to be a focus for the women through the early 1960s, with Paraguay being the last of the original member states to grant emancipation in 1961. The decades from the 1960s to the 1990s also saw the additions of the Nations of the Caribbean gaining their independence, joining the OAS and sending women delegates to the CIM. With the addition of Belize and Guyana in 1990, the organization's membership was representative of all independent nations in the Americas except Cuba.\n\nCanada joined as an observer member in 1972, and the focused changed from voting rights to protections against violence, and for health and employment programs. By the 1970s gender perspectives had emerged with a recognition of gender-bias in terms of cultural, social and historical construction based on the biological basis of sex. There was recognition that biological sex itself does not create disparity, but rather the perceived differences of gender roles as defined by cultures and social tradition. In order for equality to occur, CIM recognized that cultural, economic, political and social systems needed to be evaluated and redesigned so that women and men equally benefit. They introduced the Regional Action Plan, targeted to include working class and indigenous women as well as the traditional educated, middle class women of previous decades. The CIM completed around 200 projects, between 1975 and 1985, ranging from entrepreneurship training to animal husbandry, from leadership training to skills development, from development of craft cooperatives to developing of labor unions and from providing legal aids to creating political awareness and participation.\n\nIn the late 1980s use of rape as a tool in war by official regimes in El Salvador, Haiti, Peru, and other places across Latin America was exposed, forcing violence against women into the forefront of public discourse. As dictatorships fell, women began to pressure their civilian governments to address the systemic violence against women from Brazil to Chile to Mexico. In 1988, CIM strategy followed its model of creating international norms to press for local governmental change. To that end, the women determined to draft an inter-American Convention focusing on violence against women and scheduled a special consultative meeting in 1990. The 1990 Inter-American Consultation on Women and Violence was the first diplomatic meeting of its kind. At the convention, the women thoroughly evaluated the issue of gender based violence and then organized two inter-governmental meetings of experts to assist with clarification of issues to draft a proposal. The final instrument, which would become known as the 1994 Convention of Belém do Pará, was the first treaty to ever address violence against women. It was presented at a Special Special Assembly of CIM delegates in April 1994, who approved it and endorsed its submission to the General Assembly of the OAS. It was adopted at Belém do Pará, Brazil, in June 1994, and has been endorsed by 32 of the 34 member States of the OAS.\n\nThe delegates of the CIM continued to press for international agreements throughout the Americas that effect change and protect women. In 1998, they adopted the Declaration of Santo Domingo, which recognized that women's inalienable rights exist throughout their lifetime and are an \"integral, and indivisible part of universal human rights\".\n\nIn 2000 the first Hemispheric Ministerial Meeting on the Advancement of Women was held and a new plan adopted for the new century. Thirty-three of the member states sent delegates and in addition, the meeting was attended by Madeleine Albright US Secretary of State; Gladys Caballero de Arévalo, Vice President of Honduras; María Eugenia Brizuela de Ávila, Foreign Minister of El Salvador; Indranie Chandarpal, Guyana’s Minister of Human Services and Social Security and CIM Vice president; Graciela Fernández Meijide, Argentinian Minister of Social Development and the Environment; and Marisabel Rodríguez de Chávez, First Lady of Venezuela. The women adopted the \"Inter-American Program on the Promotion of Women’s Humans Rights and Gender Equity and Equality\" with the goal of legal equality between men and women.\n\nThe current organizational structure calls for the Assembly of Delegates to meet every two years to examine hemispheric issues and evaluate reports of progress or concern. Meetings are held in even years and the elections which occur are effective for two year periods of the following odd years. For example, at the last meeting held in 2014 officers were elected to begin serving in 2015-2017.\n\nThe CIM Executive Committee has eight delegates elected at the bi-annual Assembly of Delegates meetings. They meet at more regular intervals to address areas of immediate concern. The Executive Committee membership has developed as follows:\n\nEvery four years, CIM organizes the Meeting of Ministers or Meeting of the \"Highest-Ranking Authorities responsible for the Advancement of Women in the Member States\" (REMIM). This meeting brings together those highest ranking women from each of the OAS member states for a discussion of policy, key issues, and recommendations of topics for ministerial level meetings, such as the Summit of the Americas.\n\nAt its discretion, the CIM can call discretionary meetings or extraordinary meetings to discuss policy, hold seminars of awareness or other educational or organizational meetings to advance the causes of women.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "321993", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=321993", "title": "James Irwin", "text": "James Irwin\n\nJames Benson \"Jim\" Irwin (March 17, 1930 – August 8, 1991) (Col, USAF) was an American astronaut, aeronautical engineer, test pilot, and a United States Air Force pilot. He served as lunar module pilot for Apollo 15, the fourth human lunar landing. Following his retirement from NASA, he became a prominent born-again Christian. He was the eighth person to walk on the Moon and the first, and youngest, of those astronauts to die.\n\nIrwin was born March 17, 1930, in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, of Scottish and Irish descent, to parents James Irwin and Elsa Mathilda Irwin (). Irwin's grandparents emigrated to the U.S. from Altmore Parish at Pomeroy in County Tyrone, Ireland (now Northern Ireland) around 1859. At about the age of 12, he informed his mother about his desire to go to the Moon, letting her know that he might be the first person to do so (he ended up being the eighth). He graduated from East High School in Salt Lake City, Utah in 1947. He received a Bachelor of Science degree in Naval Science from the United States Naval Academy in 1951, and Master of Science degrees in Aeronautical Engineering and Instrumentation Engineering from the University of Michigan in 1957.\n\nHe received initial flight training at Hondo Air Base and follow-on training at Reese Air Force Base, Texas. He graduated from the Air Force Experimental Test Pilot School (Class 60C) in 1961, and the Aerospace Research Pilot School in 1963 (Class IV). Prior to joining NASA, he was chief of the Advanced Requirements Branch at Headquarters Air Defense Command. During his time in the United States Air Force he received the Air Force Distinguished Service Medal and two Air Force Commendation Medals. He also received an Air Force Outstanding Unit Citation while with the 4750th Training Wing.\n\nIrwin was also a developmental test pilot for the Lockheed YF-12, the Mach 3 fighter-interceptor variant which preceded the SR-71 Blackbird. His first flight of that aircraft was on the day that one of his five children was born.\n\nIn 1961, a student pilot that Irwin was training crashed the plane they were flying on a training mission. They both survived, but Irwin suffered compound fractures, amnesia, and nearly lost a leg. John Forrest, a U.S. Air Force orthopedic surgeon, was instrumental in preventing the amputation of Irwin's leg.\n\nDuring his military service, he accumulated more than 7,015 hours flying time, of which 5,300 hours were in jet aircraft.\n\nIrwin was raised in a Christian household but stopped actively practicing the religion at age 10. He became a devout born-again Christian after returning from space.\n\nIn 1952, Irwin married his first wife, who was a Catholic. The two had an unhappy marriage made worse by his devotion to his work. By his own account, the marriage failed after two years due to his poor, borderline cruel treatment of her, and he later stated that finding religion again made familial relationships much easier.\n\nIn 1959, Irwin married his second wife, the former Mary Ellen Monroe. Irwin's second marriage consisted of two phases: an unhappy period from 1960 to 1971, and a very happy period from 1971 until his death in 1991, during which he was a Christian. Irwin and his wife, who abhorred being in the spotlight as an astronaut's wife, fought excessively during their first ten years of marriage, and they regularly discussed and threatened divorce, even in front of the kids. She once wrote a long list of reasons for divorcing him and gave only two reasons to remain married. Irwin wrote that his marriage did not end simply because his wife, who was moderately religious, never carried through with her plans, and he later accepted blame for the marital tensions. After Irwin became a born-again Christian, he mended relations with his wife, who also became a devout Christian, and the two enjoyed a very happy marriage until his death. In his autobiography, Irwin regretted not converting to Christianity earlier.\n\nIrwin was one of the 19 astronauts selected by NASA in April 1966. He was chosen as Commander, with John S. Bull as Lunar Module Pilot, for LTA-8, an environmental qualification test of the Apollo Lunar Module in a vacuum chamber at the Houston Space Environment Simulation Laboratory. He then served as a member of the astronaut support crew for Apollo 10, the first mission to carry the full Apollo stack to the Moon and the dry run for the first manned Moon landing. Following that assignment, Irwin served as backup Lunar Module Pilot for the second Moon landing mission, Apollo 12.\n\nBetween July 26 and August 7, 1971 – as the Apollo 15 Lunar Module Pilot (LMP) – Irwin logged 295 hours and 11 minutes in space. His extravehicular activity (EVA) on the Moon's surface amounted to 18 hours and 35 minutes of the mission time (an additional 33 minutes was used to do a stand-up EVA by opening the LM's docking hatch to survey the surroundings and take photographs). Irwin and David Scott's mission was more science-based than previous missions, which meant that they received intensive geological training to meet the demanding nature of the J-Mission profile. This extra training is credited with allowing them to make one of the most important discoveries of the Apollo era, the Genesis Rock.\n\nApollo 15 landed in the Moon's Hadley-Apennine region, noted for its mountains and rilles. As a J-Mission, they would spend more time on the moon than previous missions, to allow for three EVAs. As well, Irwin was the first automobile passenger on the Moon as Scott drove the Lunar Roving Vehicle (LRV) carried along for this mission in the Lunar Module (LM) Falcon's Descent Stage. Scott and Irwin's stay on the Moon was just under three days at 66 hours and 54 minutes.\n\nOnce the rendezvous procedure was completed between \"Falcon\" and the \"Endeavour\" CSM, Irwin and Scott were busy moving items like rock samples into the CSM and preparing the Lunar Module for final separation. During this intense period of work the earliest symptoms of a heart condition appeared. Both Scott and Irwin had been working with no sleep for 23 hours, during which they conducted a final moonwalk, performed the ascent from the lunar surface, rendezvoused with \"Endeavour\", and encountered the problems that delayed the Lunar Module jettison maneuver. The astronauts' physiological vital signs were being monitored back on Earth, and the flight surgeons noticed some irregularities in Irwin's heart rhythms. Irwin's heart had developed bigeminy. Dr. Charles Berry stated to Chris Kraft, deputy director of the Manned Spacecraft Center (MSC) at the time: \"It's serious, [i]f he were on Earth. I'd have him in ICU being treated for a heart attack.\" However, Berry concluded that since \"Endeavour\"'s cabin atmosphere was 100% oxygen when in space, Irwin was in the best of circumstances. Specifically, \"In truth, ... he's in an ICU. He's getting one hundred percent oxygen, he's being continuously monitored, and best of all, he's in zero \"g\". Whatever strain his heart is under, well, we can't do better than zero \"g\".\"\n\nDuring the post-trans-Earth injection (TEI) phase of the mission there wasn't much more for Irwin to do other than provide help with Al Worden's EVA to retrieve film magazines from the CSM's SIM bay, by donning a pressure suit and monitoring him. He was able to rest and apparently recover during the rest of the mission. The flight surgeons continued to monitor his EKG until splashdown, but his heart rhythm was normal. This incident was not discussed during the mission debriefing sessions, and the condition did not appear when he returned to Earth.\n\nAfter the return of Apollo 15 to Earth, it was discovered that, without authority, the crew had taken 398 commemorative first day covers to the moon of which a hundred were then sold to a German stamp dealer. The profits of the sale were intended to be used to establish trust funds for the Apollo 15 crew's children. NASA had turned a blind eye to similar activities on earlier flights, but on this occasion the administration reprimanded the astronauts, and they never got any funds from the sales. Irwin had announced his intent to retire from the Air Force and resign from NASA prior to the reprimand.\n\nBy his own admission, Irwin was not a committed Christian during his years at NASA. After his retirement as a Colonel in 1972, Irwin founded the High Flight Foundation. He spent the next 20 years as a \"Goodwill Ambassador for the Prince of Peace\", stating that \"Jesus walking on the earth is more important than man walking on the moon\". He said that his experiences in space had made God more real to him than before. Irwin and his wife stated that his Christian rebirth, which happened while he was in space, saved their marriage and made their lives much happier.\n\nBeginning in 1973, Irwin led several expeditions to Mount Ararat, Turkey, in search of the remains of Noah's Ark. In 1982, he was injured during the descent and had to be transported down the mountain on horseback. In \"More Than Earthlings\", Irwin wrote expressing his view that the Genesis creation narrative was real, literal history.\n\nIrwin suffered at least three serious heart attacks. One occurred less than two years after Apollo 15, when Irwin was 43, while he was playing handball. Irwin suffered another heart attack in 1986, when he collapsed during a run and was found pulseless on a curb. Doctors from NASA doubted the incidents were related to space travel, and noted that pre-flight testing indicated a tendency for cardiac arrhythmias during strenuous exercise.\n\nOn August 8, 1991, Irwin suffered another heart attack after a bike ride earlier that day. Attempts at resuscitation were unsuccessful, and Irwin died later that day in the hospital. He was buried at Arlington National Cemetery. He was survived by his widow, Mary Ellen, to whom he was married to for three decades, and their five children.\n\nOf the 12 men who have walked on the moon, Irwin was the first to die. The James Irwin Charter Schools were founded in Colorado in his honor.\n\nA patch cut by Irwin from a backpack abandoned on the Moon during the Apollo 15 mission was auctioned at Christie's in 2001 for in a consignment of material from Irwin's estate that garnered \"a combined $500,000\".\n\nIrwin was a member of the Air Force Association and the Society of Experimental Test Pilots.\n\nHe was also a Freemason, initiated in Tejon Lodge No. 104 in Colorado Springs.\n\nIrwin was a member of Civitan International a nonprofit organization promoting community service, scientific research, and service to people with intellectual and developmental disabilities.\n\n\nIrwin's other awards include: Belgium's Order of Leopold in 1971; Kitty Hawk Memorial Award, 1971; New York Police Department St. George Association's Golden Rule Award in 1972; Christian Service Award; Milan Hulbert Trophy of SWAP International in 1973.\n\nHe was also awarded an Honorary Doctorate of Astronautical Engineering from the University of Michigan in 1971; an Honorary Doctorate of Science from the William Jewell College in 1971; and an Honorary D.Sc. from the Samford University in 1972.\n\nHe was inducted into the International Space Hall of Fame in 1983, and the U.S. Astronaut Hall of Fame, on October 4, 1997. In 1973, When Irwin visited the city of Minden, Louisiana, to address a gathering at the First Baptise Church, Mayor Tom Colten declared \"James Irwin Day\" and made Irwin an \"honorary citizen of Minden.\"\n\nIn the 1998 HBO miniseries \"From the Earth to the Moon\" Irwin was played by Gareth Williams.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1422130", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1422130", "title": "Jewish identity", "text": "Jewish identity\n\nJewish identity is the objective or subjective state of perceiving oneself as a Jew and as relating to being Jewish. Under a broader definition, Jewish identity does not depend on whether a person is regarded as a Jew by others, or by an external set of religious, or legal, or sociological norms. Jewish identity does not need to imply religious orthodoxy. Accordingly, Jewish identity can be cultural in nature. Jewish identity can involve ties to the Jewish community. Orthodox Judaism bases Jewishness on matrilineal descent. According to Jewish law (halacha), all those born of a Jewish mother are considered Jewish, regardless of personal beliefs or level of observance of Jewish law.\n\nJews who are atheists may have a Jewish identity. While the absolute majority of people with this identity are of Jewish ethnicity, people of a mixed Jewish and non-Jewish background or gentiles of Jewish ancestry may still have a sense of Jewish self-identity.\n\nJewish identity can be described as consisting of three interconnected parts:\n\n\nJewish identity can be cultural, religious, and/or through ancestry. There are religious, cultural, and ancestral components to Jewish identity due to its fundamental non-proselytizing nature, as opposed to Christian or Muslim identity which are both \"universal\" religions in that they ascribe to the notion that their faith is meant to be spread throughout all of humanity, regardless of nationality, (and still are, though to a far lesser extent than throughout its history in the case of Christianity). However, Jewish identity is firmly intertwined with Jewish ancestry dating back to the historical Kingdom of Israel, which was largely depopulated by the Roman Empire c. first century CE, leading to what is known as today as the Jewish Diaspora.\n\nJewish identity began to gain the attention of Jewish sociologists in the United States with the publication of Marshall Sklare's \"Lakeville studies\". Among other topics explored in the studies was Sklare's notion of a \"good Jew\". The \"good Jew\" was essentially an idealized form of Jewish identity as expressed by the Lakeville respondents. Today, sociological measurements of Jewish identity have become the concern of the Jewish Federations who have sponsored numerous community studies across the U.S.; policy decisions (in areas such as funding, programming, etc.) have been shaped in part due to studies on Jewish identity.\n\nAccording to the social-psychologist Simon Herman, antisemitism plays a part in shaping Jewish identity. This view is echoed by religious leaders such as Rabbi Jonathan Sacks who writes that modern Jewish communities and the modern Jewish identity are deeply influenced by antisemitism.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40019892", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40019892", "title": "Lao Veterans of America", "text": "Lao Veterans of America\n\nThe Lao Veterans of America, Inc., describes itself as a non-profit, non-partisan, non-governmental, veterans organization that represents Lao- and Hmong-American veterans who served in the U.S. clandestine war in the Kingdom of Laos during the Vietnam War as well as their refugee families in the United States.\n\nMembers of the Lao Veterans of America, Inc., (LVA) served in the U.S. clandestine war in the Kingdom of Laos during the North Vietnamese invasion of Laos and Vietnam conflict. These veterans served in the U.S. \"Secret Army\" in Laos, as well as the Royal Lao Army, and are largely recruits from the ethnic Hmong people, and other Laotian tribal minority peoples, as well as ethnic lowland Lao. They engaged in combat operations, and provided support, for key U.S. covert air and ground operations including Operation Barrel Roll against the North Vietnamese Army and People's Army of Vietnam and communist Pathet Lao forces. Laotian and Hmong soldiers, first backed and armed by President John F. Kennedy, the United States Central Intelligence Agency (CIA), and U.S. Department of Defense, also interdicted North Vietnamese forces and supplies on the Ho Chi Minh Trail in Laos.\n\nCIA clandestine and U.S. military leaders, officers, operatives and advisers to the U.S. Secret Army in Laos included notable U.S. national security figures including: William Colby, Richard Helms, Theodore Shackley, Anthony Poshepny, Lawrence Devlin and others. The Lao Veterans of America's members worked in cooperation with many of these figures during the Vietnam War in Laos and its aftermath.\n\nTens of thousands of Laotian and Hmong veterans, and their families, fled the communist Pathet Lao takeover of Laos in 1975 as refugees, and were eventually granted political asylum, and resettled in the United States, including Lao Hmong leader General Vang Pao.\n\nPhilip Smith, serves as the Washington, D.C. Director and Liaison for the Lao Veterans of America, Inc., and has advocated on a variety of issues for the Laotian and Hmong-American community as well as representing the organization in the US Congress and on Capitol Hill. Smith has acted as Washington, D.C. Director for the LVA since the early 1990s.\n\nOn May 14–15, 1997, twenty-two years after the end of the Vietnam War in Laos, a monument to the Lao and Hmong veterans and their American advisers who served in the Kingdom in Laos was during the Vietnam War was finally authorized by Arlington National Cemetery. The Lao Veterans of America, its Washington, D.C. Director, Philip Smith, and others, as well as tens of thousands of LVA members and their families, dedicated the monument in Arlington National Cemetery. The LVA's Laotian and Hmong veterans also received national recognition at the Vietnam War Memorial for their covert service. It was the first time that the United States acknowledged its covert role in Laos and the role of the Lao and Hmong veterans who served in the \"U.S. Secret Army.\"\n\nThousands of Lao and Hmong-American veterans from across the United States and their families participated in the Arlington and Washington, D.C., national recognition ceremonies.\n\nThe Lao Veterans of America, in cooperation with The Centre for Public Policy Analysis, and others, continues to host annual veterans memorial ceremonies in Washington, D.C., and Arlington National Cemetery at the Laos Memorial, each May, to honor the Lao and Hmong-American veterans, their refugee families, and their American U.S. Special Forces and clandestine advisers.\n\nIn May 2013, prominent Hmong-American Dr. Cherzong Vang, a former Minnesota President of the Lao Veterans of America was honored at veterans memorial ceremonies held at the Laos Memorial in Arlington by a jointed U.S. Armed Services honor guard along with Members of the US Congress and other officials.\n\nOn May 15, 2015, Lao- and Hmong-American veterans and their families from across the United States held a special 40th anniversary veterans memorial service in Arlington National Cemetery to mourn the fall of the Royal Kingdom of Laos to invading North Vietnamese Army forces of the People's Army of Vietnam and communist Pathet Lao guerrillas. The ceremony included representatives and Green Berets of the U.S. Special Forces Association who served in Laos, Members of Congress and others.\n\nFrom its inception in the early 1990s, the Lao Veterans of America, Inc. played a leadership role in the research, development, introduction and passage of the Hmong Veterans' Naturalization Act of 2000.\n\nIn 2000, after a 10-year battle in the U.S. Congress, President Bill Clinton signed into law the Hmong Veterans' Naturalization Act of 2000 to grant honorary citizenship to Lao and Hmong-American veterans of the U.S. \"Secret Army.\" \n\nCongressman Vento died of lung cancer the year the bill was signed into law. The Lao Veterans of America led efforts to memorialize Congressman Vento's legacy and assistance to the Lao- and Hmong veterans and their refugee families.\n\nAn additional bill to assist Lao- and Hmong-American widows of veterans was later introduced and passed into law with the Lao Veterans of America again advocating in Congress and Washington, D.C., for passage of the legislation.\n\nWorking with Amnesty International, Human Rights Watch, the Lao Human Rights Council, and other human rights organizations, the Lao Veterans of America, and its Washington D.C. Director Philip Smith, have been active in Washington, D.C., and policy-making circles in staunch opposition to human rights violations, ethnic cleansing, and political and religious liberty and religious freedom persecution directed against the Lao and Hmong people by the Marxist-Leninist government of Laos and Socialist Republic of Vietnam (SRV). In the 1990s, 2000s and 2010s, for nearly three decades, the Lao Veterans of America has also been active in opposition to the forced repatriation of Lao and Hmong refugees from Thailand back to the communist government in Laos that the refugees fled. In the late 1980s, 1990s and 2000s, the LVA participated in research missions, along with Members of Congress, and the Centre for Public Policy Analysis to Lao and Hmong refugee camps along the Mekong River and the Buddhist temple of Wat Tham Krabok to help document human rights violations under the Marxist regime in Laos and to seek to halt and reverse the forced repatriation policy directed against political refugees and asylum seekers in Thailand and Southeast Asia. The LVA has raised repeated concerns about the ongoing role of the SRV and Vietnamese People's Army (VPA in support of the Pathet Lao Marxist government in Laos, especially with regard to illegal logging, human rights violations, military attacks against Hmong civilians and political and religious dissident groups, and religious persecution.\n\nThe Lao Veterans of America and its Washington Director Philip Smith have raised concerns about Laotian- and Hmong-American citizens who have been abducted or disappeared in Laos at the hand of communist Lao police or military officials including Houa Ly of the Green Bay area of Wisconsin and Michael Vang of Fresno, California who disappeared in April 1999 along the border of Thailand and Laos. Former U.S. Congressman Mark Andrew Green, former Congressman George Radanovich, and former Congressman Tom Lantos, held various hearings in the U.S. Congress about the Lao government's role in abducting the two Hmong-American men and other serious human rights violations in Marxist Laos and Thailand. As of 2013, the two Hmong-American men, who are U.S. citizens, are still missing at the hands of communist officials in Laos along with other U.S. citizens, including Mr. Hakit Yang, of St. Paul, Minnesota and additional two of his colleagues, Mr. Cong Shi Neng Yang and Trillion Yunhaison. Mr. Hakit Yang and his two colleagues from Minnesota were held at Phonthong Prison in Vientiane, Laos. Human rights advocates Kerry and Kay Danes, Amnesty International, The Centre for Public Policy Analysis, and the LVA helped to draw awareness to their plight and human rights violations in Laos directed against the Lao and Hmong people.\n\nIn 2002, the US Senate and US House unanimously passed special bills, including H. Con. Res. 406, to honor and recognize the Lao Veterans of America.\n\nMembers of Congress, and the Lao Veterans of America, are seeking to further honor Lao- and Hmong-American veterans who served during the Vietnam War and are requesting that the U.S. government authorize these veterans, upon their passing, to be buried in U.S. national veterans cemeteries administered by the Department of Veterans Affairs. Bills are pending in the U.S. Congress for this purpose introduced by Senator Lisa Murkowski of Alaska and Congressman Jim Costa of California.\n\nIn May and July 2013, the U.S. Senate Veterans Affairs Committee, led by Senators Bernie Sanders and Richard Burr, held a full committee hearing of the \"Lao Hmong Veterans Burial Honors Bill.\" The potential Senate passage of legislation addressing, and studying, the plight of the Lao and Hmong veterans of the \"U.S. Secret Army\" in Laos seeking burial honors at U.S. national veterans cemeteries has been reported in Washington,D.C. and on Capitol Hill \n\nPhilip Smith, provided testimony on behalf of the Lao Veterans of America at the U.S. Senate Veterans Affairs Committee.\n\nIn 2014, the Senate Veterans Affairs Committee, led by Bernard Sanders, and the bill's other Senate cosponsors, included the burial honors bill into a very large. and comprehensive omnibus veterans bill. However, spending disputes about funding the much larger veterans affairs bill led to its defeat. Nevertheless, the stand-alone bill continued to gain bipartisan support and cosponsors in the House and Senate as the result of the Lao Veterans of America and others continuing to raise awareness of the legislation in Washington, D.C.\n\nIn 2014, in the U.S. House of Representatives, the bill continued to gain bipartisan support, from both Republicans and Democrats, and additional official Congressional cosponsors, who signed on the legislation in significant numbers. Also, in 2014, the pending legislation was officially named \"The Hmong Veterans' Service Recognition Act\" by Members of the US Congress who introduced and officially cosponsored the bill.\n\nSince the 1990s, the Lao Veterans of America, has repeatedly worked with, and supported, the efforts of World War II veterans of the U.S.-backed forces in the Philippines to educate the US Congress about their unique contribution and unique relationship with the US Department of Defense during the Second World War. On a numerous occasions, and within the context of the Bataan Death March, and other extraordinary sacrifices during World War II, the LVA has joined in support of the Filipino veterans efforts in Washington, D.C., Congress, and Capitol Hill to seek U.S. veterans honors and benefits.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25361256", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25361256", "title": "Light of Truth Award", "text": "Light of Truth Award\n\nThe Light of Truth Award is a human rights award which is presented nearly annually by the International Campaign for Tibet (ICT), an NGO aiming for the promotion of democracy and human rights for the Tibetan people. The award is presented since 1995 by the fourteenth Dalai Lama, Tenzin Gyatso, to the recipients personally.\n\nThe prize consists of a homely Tibetan butter lamp that serves as a symbol of the extraordinary light that every recipient brought to Tibet. In 2005 the ICT received an award itself, the \"Geuzenpenning\", a human rights award from the Netherlands.\n\nThe Light of Truth Award is granted to persons and organizations that have publicly contributed substantially to the rise of and battle for human rights and democratic freedoms of the Tibetan people. In one occasion, in 2001, the award was presented to the whole people of India and it was taken delivery of by president R. Venkataraman.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33221608", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33221608", "title": "List of British Residents or Political Agents in Delhi, 1803–57", "text": "List of British Residents or Political Agents in Delhi, 1803–57\n\nThe following is a list of Residents or Political Agents of the East India Company to the court of the Mughal emperor in Delhi from 1803 to 1857. A Resident or Political Agent was an official of the East India Company (and after 1813, the British Government), who was based in a princely state and who served as part diplomat, part adviser to the native ruler, and part monitor of activities in the princely state. He was an instrument of indirect rule of princely India by the British.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42551842", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42551842", "title": "List of Nepali political clans", "text": "List of Nepali political clans\n\nThis page lists some of the notable clans within the Nepali political arena and their notable members and relatives. This list does not include all family members.\n\nTwo families of Bagale Thapa clan were influential. One was the Birbhadra or Bhimsen family and other was Badakaji Amar Singh Thapa's family.\n\nOther notable connected members\n\n\nOther notable connected members\n\n\nShreepali clan of Basnet were influential in the 18th-19th century.\n\nOther notable connected members\n\n\nSecond influential family of Bagale Thapa clan; the other being Thapa dynasty.\n\nConnected Members\n\n\nChautariyas are non-throne lineage descendents of Shah dynasty.\n\n\nOther notable connected members\n\n\n\nOther notable connected members\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35200902", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35200902", "title": "Low-threshold treatment programs", "text": "Low-threshold treatment programs\n\nLow-threshold treatment programs are harm reduction-based health care centers targeted towards drug users. \"Low-threshold\" programs are programs that make minimal demands on the patient, offering services without attempting to control their intake of drugs, and providing counselling only if requested. Low-threshold programs may be contrasted with \"high-threshold\" programs, which require the user to accept a certain level of control and which demand that the patient accept counselling.\n\nLow-threshold treatment programs are not to be confused with simple needle exchange programs, and may include comprehensive healthcare and counseling services. The International Journal of Drug Policy in its volume 24 published an Editorial which endeavoured to define a service known to be \"low-threshold\", based on some popular and known criteria. According to that Editorial, low-threshold services for drug users can be defined as those which offer services to drug users; do not impose abstinence from drug use as a condition of service access; and endeavour to reduce other documented barriers to service access.\n\nInjection drug users (IDUs) are at risk of a wide range of health problems arising from non-sterile injecting practices, complications of the drug itself or of the lifestyle associated with drug use and dependence. Furthermore, unrelated health problems, such as diabetes, may be neglected because of drug dependence. However, despite their increased health care needs, IDUs do not have the required access to care or may be reluctant to use conventional services. Consequently, their health may deteriorate to a point at which emergency treatment is required, with considerable costs to both the IDUs and the health system. Accordingly, harm reduction based health care centers, also known as \"targeted health care outlet\" or \"low-threshold health care outlet\" for IDUs have been established across a range of settings utilising a variety of models. These targeted outlets provide integrated, low-threshold services within a harm-reduction framework targeting IDUs, and sometimes include social and/or other services. Where a particular service is not provided, referral and assistance with access is available. In 2007, for example, 33% of all US needle-syringe programs (NSPs) provided on-site medical care, and 7% provided buprenorphine treatment. Similarly, in many European countries NSP outlets serve as low-threshold primary health care centers targeting primarily IDUs.\n\nThese targeted outlets vary widely and may be either \"distributive\", providing basic harm reduction services and simple healthcare with facilitated referrals to specialist services, or \"one-stop-shops\" where a range of services including specialist services are provided onsite. The services being offered by these outlets range from simple needle and syringe provision, to expanded services including basic and preventive primary healthcare, hepatitis B and A vaccinations, hepatitis C testing, counselling, tuberculosis screening and sometimes opioid maintenance therapy. Some centers offer hepatitis, HIV treatment and dental care. The goal of these outlets is to provide: (1) opportunistic health care, (2) increased temporal and spatial availability of health care, (3) trustworthy services of health care, (4) cost-effective mode of health care, (5) targeted and tailored services.\n\nIn the United States as of 2011, 211 NSPs were known to be operating in 32 states, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico and the Indian Nations. The bulk of funding has come from state and local governments, since for most of the last several decades, federal funding for needle exchange programs has been specifically banned.\n\nGlobally, as of 2008, at least 77 countries and territories offer NSPs with varying structures, aims and goals. Some countries use needle exchange services as part of integrated programs to contain drug use, while others aim simply to contain HIV infection as their top priority, considering reduction in incidence of drug use as a much lower priority. Acceptance of NSPs vary widely from country to country. On the one hand, in Australia and New Zealand, electronic dispensing machines are available at selected locations such as the Auckland needle exchange and the Christchurch needle exchange, allowing needle exchange service 24 hours to registered users. On the other hand, over half of the countries in Asia, the Middle East, and North Africa retain the death penalty for drug offenses, although some have not carried out executions in recent years.\n\nLow-threshold programs offering needle exchange have faced much opposition on political and moral grounds. Concerns are often expressed that NSPs may encourage drug use, or may actually increase the number of dirty needles in the community. Another fear is that NSPs may draw drug activity into the communities in which they operate. It has also been argued that in fighting disease, needle exchanges take attention away from bigger drug problems, and that, contrary to saving lives, they actually contribute to drug-related deaths. Even in Australia, which is considered a leading country in harm reduction, a survey showed that a third of the public believed that NSPs encouraged drug use, and 20% believed that NSPs dispensed drugs. In the United States, the ambivalent public attitude towards NSPs is often reflected in police interference, with 43% of NSP program managers reporting frequent (at least monthly) client harassment, 31% reporting frequent confiscation of clients' syringes, 12% reporting frequent client arrest, and 26% reporting uninvited police appearances at program sites. A single 1997 study which showed a correlation between frequent program use and elevated rates of HIV infection among IDUs in Vancouver, Canada, has become widely cited by opponents of NSPs as demonstrating their counter-productiveness.\n\nAuthors from the 1997 Vancouver study have, in multiple publications, issued disclaimers against the misuse of their work by opponents of NSPs. They point out that frequent attendees of the program tended to be young and often indulged in extreme high-risk behaviors. The 1997 results were hence of a statistically biased sampling. They have emphasized that the correct message to be derived from their 1997 study can be read in the title of their work: \"Needle exchange is not enough\". This is the same message presented by many other articles since.\n\nComprehensive, systematic surveys of the costs and effectiveness of low-threshold primary healthcare programs are not available due to the heterogeneity of these programs and the study designs. Narrower focus studies dealing solely with the needle exchange issue are abundant, however, and generally support the thesis that NSPs reduce the risk of prevalence of HIV, hepatitis and other blood-bourne diseases. These studies suggest that such outlets improve the overall health status of IDUs and save on the health budget by reducing episodes in emergency departments and tertiary hospitals. In Australia, monitoring of drug users participating in NSPs showed the incidence of HIV among NSP clients to be essentially identical to that of the general population. Fears that NSPs may draw drug activity into the communities in which they operate are contradicted by a study that showed that by far the greatest number of clients of an NSP in Chicago came to the area to exchange needles (60%) rather than to buy drugs (3.8%).\n\nInternationally, support for the effectiveness of low-threshold programs including needle exchange have come from studies conducted in Afghanistan, China, Spain, Taiwan, Estonia, Canada, Iran, and many other countries. However, in many countries, there is strong opposition to such programs.\n\nDespite the lack of definitive scientific evidence on the effectiveness of IDU-targeted low-threshold services, the available evidence, revealing barriers to service access and the late presentation of seriously ill IDUs to hospital, suggests the ongoing need for targeted and low-threshold services. Because of this, organizations ranging from the National Institutes of Health, the Centers for Disease Control, the American Bar Association, the American Medical Association, the American Psychological Association, the World Health Organization, and many others have endorsed low-threshold programs including needle exchange.\n"}
{"id": "8113555", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8113555", "title": "Nannygate (disambiguation)", "text": "Nannygate (disambiguation)\n\nNannygate was a 1993 political controversy in the United States wherein the nomination of Zoë Baird, and near-nomination of Kimba Wood, for U.S. Attorney General were withdrawn due to the hiring of illegal aliens as nannies or the failure to pay taxes for them\n\nNannygate may also refer to similar affairs:\n"}
{"id": "8730032", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8730032", "title": "National Council of Government (Haiti)", "text": "National Council of Government (Haiti)\n\nThe National Council of Government (, CNG) was the ruling body of Haiti from 1986 to 1988. The council was first established on February 7, 1986, as a joint military and civilian provisional government following the exile of President for life Jean-Claude Duvalier. The council consisted of a President, Lieutenant General Henri Namphy, and five Members, three from the military and two civilians. The military Members were Colonels Williams Régala, Max Valles, and Prosper Avril, while the civilian Members were Gérard Gourgue and Alix Cinéas.\n\nGourgue resigned from the council less than two months after it was formed, and Colonel Valles, Colonel Avril, and Cinéas were forced to resign soon after. The first National Council was officially dissolved on March 20, 1986. During its short life, the council took two important actions: it dissolved President Duvalier's paramilitary forces, the \"Tonton Macoute\" (, VSN) on February 15, and restored the blue and red flag of Haiti on February 17.\n\nA second National Council with three constituents was established on March 21, 1986, the day after the first council was dissolved. The two remaining men of the first council, Henri Namphy and Williams Régala, reprised their positions as President and Member, respectively. Jacques A François joined the council as the second Member. This version of the National Council ruled until February 7, 1988, when Leslie François Manigat took office as President of Haiti.\n\n"}
{"id": "11269203", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11269203", "title": "Norwegian Heathen Society", "text": "Norwegian Heathen Society\n\nThe Norwegian Heathen Society ( (\"DnH\") or \"Hedningsamfunnet\" for short) is a non-partisan irreligious society that was established in 1974 and whose main focus is counteracting the Church of Norway and Christian influence in Norway.\n\nThe Heathen Society calls itself a humanist antireligious liberation movement. The organization advocates freedom of and, if need be, from religion and opposes Christian and Muslim influence.\n\nFrom time to time it challenges the so-called \"blasphemy paragraph\" in section 142 of the Norwegian Penal Code, which provides for punishment for anyone \"who publicly insults or in an offensive manner shows contempt for any religious creed or for the doctrines or worship of any religious community lawfully existing [in Norway]\". In 1982 it produced the cartoon \"Jesus Kristus & Co.\", depicting Jesus, which stirred considerable controversy. Charges were filed by the women's branch of the Christian Democratic Party, but later dropped.\n\nAnother of its actions was its successful demand for the right to call \"God does not exist\" from the rooftops after Oslo City Council granted a mosque the right to broadcast Adhan (prayer calls).\n\nThe society also supports the separation of church and state.\n\n\"The Norwegian Heathens’ Society advocates man as the end and the togetherness of humans as the means of human society. We advocate liberation from authoritarian religions and from faiths belittling and dividing men, which rate the value of humankind according to man’s relation to a deity, and which use norms and dogmata to further inhibit human thoughts and emotions. We promote the freedom of confession and oppose any confession-based discrimination in general, and we oppose The Church of Norway and other religious institutions in particular.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26347076", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26347076", "title": "Nova – Center for Social Innovation", "text": "Nova – Center for Social Innovation\n\nNova – Center for Social Innovation, promotes social innovation through civic participation and intercultural dialogue to help generate alternative socioeconomic models to globalization, a culture of peace based on civil alternatives of defense and a more sustainable and participatory society.\n\nNova works with organizations and institutions interested in starting projects that promote social innovation and provide participative tools and services that allow citizens to become actively involved in these processes, including an emphasis on intercultural dialogue wherever possible.\n\nThe Nova association was born in the year 2000, but the team behind it has the experience of having taken active part in the Centre d'Estudis Joan Bardina (1983–1991) and EcoConcern (1992–1999), where it organised the Catalan Forum for Rethinking Society (1996–2001) within the framework of the Alliance for a Responsible, Plural and United World (1995–2001). Since 2003, Nova is a member of Nonviolent Peaceforce and through its NoViolenciaActiva Team (known as \"Forces de Pau Noviolentes\" until 2006) it promotes activities on the culture of peace and nonviolence, attempting to implement systems of nonviolent intervention and civilian resistance in conflict areas.\n\nSince 2008, Nova has been working on the project Barcelona Consensus: Intercultural Alternatives to Neoliberal Globalization.\n\n"}
{"id": "72754", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=72754", "title": "Organic farming", "text": "Organic farming\n\nOrganic farming is a phrase coined early in the 20th century in reaction to rapidly changing farming practices to describe what other species use, and used, to farm without synthetic chemicals. Organic farming continues to be developed by various organic agriculture organizations today. It relies on fertilizers of organic origin such as compost manure, green manure, and bone meal and places emphasis on techniques such as crop rotation and companion planting. Biological pest control, mixed cropping and the fostering of insect predators are encouraged. In general, organic standards are designed to allow the use of naturally occurring substances while prohibiting or strictly limiting synthetic substances. For instance, naturally occurring pesticides such as pyrethrin and rotenone are permitted, while synthetic fertilizers and pesticides are generally prohibited. Synthetic substances that are allowed include, for example, copper sulfate, elemental sulfur and Ivermectin. Genetically modified organisms, nanomaterials, human sewage sludge, plant growth regulators, hormones, and antibiotic use in husbandry are prohibited. Reasons for advocation of organic farming include advantages in sustainability, openness, self-sufficiency, autonomy/independence, health, food security, and food safety.\n\nOrganic agricultural methods are internationally regulated and legally enforced by many nations, based in large part on the standards set by the International Federation of Organic Agriculture Movements (IFOAM), an international umbrella organization for organic farming organizations established in 1972. Organic agriculture can be defined as:\n\nSince 1990 the market for organic food and other products has grown rapidly, reaching $63 billion worldwide in 2012. This demand has driven a similar increase in organically managed farmland that grew from 2001 to 2011 at a compounding rate of 8.9% per annum.\n\nAs of 2016, approximately worldwide were farmed organically, representing approximately 1.2 percent of total world farmland.\n\nAgriculture was practiced for thousands of years without the use of artificial chemicals. Artificial fertilizers were first created during the mid-19th century. These early fertilizers were cheap, powerful, and easy to transport in bulk. Similar advances occurred in chemical pesticides in the 1940s, leading to the decade being referred to as the 'pesticide era'. These new agricultural techniques, while beneficial in the short term, had serious longer term side effects such as soil compaction, erosion, and declines in overall soil fertility, along with health concerns about toxic chemicals entering the food supply. In the late 1800s and early 1900s, soil biology scientists began to seek ways to remedy these side effects while still maintaining higher production.\n\nBiodynamic agriculture was the first modern system of agriculture to focus exclusively on organic methods. Its development began in 1924 with a series of eight lectures on agriculture given by Rudolf Steiner. These lectures, the first known presentation of what later came to be known as organic agriculture, were held in response to a request by farmers who noticed degraded soil conditions and a deterioration in the health and quality of crops and livestock resulting from the use of chemical fertilizers. The one hundred eleven attendees, less than half of whom were farmers, came from six countries, primarily Germany and Poland. The lectures were published in November 1924; the first English translation appeared in 1928 as \"The Agriculture Course\".\n\nIn 1921, Albert Howard and his wife Gabrielle Howard, accomplished botanists, founded an Institute of Plant Industry to improve traditional farming methods in India. Among other things, they brought improved implements and improved animal husbandry methods from their scientific training; then by incorporating aspects of the local traditional methods, developed protocols for the rotation of crops, erosion prevention techniques, and the systematic use of composts and manures. Stimulated by these experiences of traditional farming, when Albert Howard returned to Britain in the early 1930s he began to promulgate a system of natural agriculture.\n\nIn July 1939, Ehrenfried Pfeiffer, the author of the standard work on biodynamic agriculture (\"Bio-Dynamic Farming and Gardening\"), came to the UK at the invitation of Walter James, 4th Baron Northbourne as a presenter at the Betteshanger Summer School and Conference on Biodynamic Farming at Northbourne's farm in Kent. One of the chief purposes of the conference was to bring together the proponents of various approaches to organic agriculture in order that they might cooperate within a larger movement. Howard attended the conference, where he met Pfeiffer. In the following year, Northbourne published his manifesto of organic farming, \"Look to the Land\", in which he coined the term \"organic farming.\" The Betteshanger conference has been described as the 'missing link' between biodynamic agriculture and other forms of organic farming.\n\nIn 1940 Howard published his \"An Agricultural Testament\". In this book he adopted Northbourne's terminology of \"organic farming.\" Howard's work spread widely, and he became known as the \"father of organic farming\" for his work in applying scientific knowledge and principles to various traditional and natural methods. In the United States J.I. Rodale, who was keenly interested both in Howard's ideas and in biodynamics, founded in the 1940s both a working organic farm for trials and experimentation, The Rodale Institute, and the Rodale Press to teach and advocate organic methods to the wider public. These became important influences on the spread of organic agriculture. Further work was done by Lady Eve Balfour (the Haughley Experiment) in the United Kingdom, and many others across the world.\n\nIncreasing environmental awareness in the general population in modern times has transformed the originally supply-driven organic movement to a demand-driven one. Premium prices and some government subsidies attracted farmers. In the developing world, many producers farm according to traditional methods that are comparable to organic farming, but not certified, and that may not include the latest scientific advancements in organic agriculture. In other cases, farmers in the developing world have converted to modern organic methods for economic reasons.\n\nBiodynamic agriculturists, who based their work on Steiner's spiritually-oriented anthroposophy, used the term \"organic\" to indicate that a farm should be viewed as a living organism, in the sense of the following quotation:\nThe use of \"organic\" popularized by Howard and Rodale, on the other hand, refers more narrowly to the use of organic matter derived from plant compost and animal manures to improve the humus content of soils, grounded in the work of early soil scientists who developed what was then called \"humus farming.\" Since the early 1940s the two camps have tended to merge.\n\nOrganic farming methods combine scientific knowledge of ecology and modern technology with traditional farming practices based on naturally occurring biological processes. Organic farming methods are studied in the field of agroecology. While conventional agriculture uses synthetic pesticides and water-soluble synthetically purified fertilizers, organic farmers are restricted by regulations to using natural pesticides and fertilizers. An example of a natural pesticide is pyrethrin, which is found naturally in the Chrysanthemum flower. The principal methods of organic farming include crop rotation, green manures and compost, biological pest control, and mechanical cultivation. These measures use the natural environment to enhance agricultural productivity: legumes are planted to fix nitrogen into the soil, natural insect predators are encouraged, crops are rotated to confuse pests and renew soil, and natural materials such as potassium bicarbonate and mulches are used to control disease and weeds. Genetically modified seeds and animals are excluded.\n\nWhile organic is fundamentally different from conventional because of the use of carbon based fertilizers compared with highly soluble synthetic based fertilizers and biological pest control instead of synthetic pesticides, organic farming and large-scale conventional farming are not entirely mutually exclusive. Many of the methods developed for organic agriculture have been borrowed by more conventional agriculture. For example, Integrated Pest Management is a multifaceted strategy that uses various organic methods of pest control whenever possible, but in conventional farming could include synthetic pesticides only as a last resort.\n\nOrganic farming encourages Crop diversity. The science of agroecology has revealed the benefits of polyculture (multiple crops in the same space), which is often employed in organic farming. Planting a variety of vegetable crops supports a wider range of beneficial insects, soil microorganisms, and other factors that add up to overall farm health. Crop diversity helps environments thrive and protects species from going extinct.\n\nOrganic farming relies heavily on the natural breakdown of organic matter, using techniques like green manure and composting, to replace nutrients taken from the soil by previous crops. This biological process, driven by microorganisms such as mycorrhiza, allows the natural production of nutrients in the soil throughout the growing season, and has been referred to as \"feeding the soil to feed the plant.\" Organic farming uses a variety of methods to improve soil fertility, including crop rotation, cover cropping, reduced tillage, and application of compost. By reducing tillage, soil is not inverted and exposed to air; less carbon is lost to the atmosphere resulting in more soil organic carbon. This has an added benefit of carbon sequestration, which can reduce green house gases and help reverse climate change.\n\nPlants need nitrogen, phosphorus, and potassium, as well as micronutrients and symbiotic relationships with fungi and other organisms to flourish, but getting enough nitrogen, and particularly synchronization so that plants get enough nitrogen at the right time (when plants need it most), is a challenge for organic farmers. Crop rotation and green manure (\"cover crops\") help to provide nitrogen through legumes (more precisely, the \"Fabaceae\" family), which fix nitrogen from the atmosphere through symbiosis with rhizobial bacteria. Intercropping, which is sometimes used for insect and disease control, can also increase soil nutrients, but the competition between the legume and the crop can be problematic and wider spacing between crop rows is required. Crop residues can be ploughed back into the soil, and different plants leave different amounts of nitrogen, potentially aiding synchronization. Organic farmers also use animal manure, certain processed fertilizers such as seed meal and various mineral powders such as rock phosphate and green sand, a naturally occurring form of potash that provides potassium. Together these methods help to control erosion. In some cases pH may need to be amended. Natural pH amendments include lime and sulfur, but in the U.S. some compounds such as iron sulfate, aluminum sulfate, magnesium sulfate, and soluble boron products are allowed in organic farming.\n\nMixed farms with both livestock and crops can operate as ley farms, whereby the land gathers fertility through growing nitrogen-fixing forage grasses such as white clover or alfalfa and grows cash crops or cereals when fertility is established. Farms without livestock (\"stockless\") may find it more difficult to maintain soil fertility, and may rely more on external inputs such as imported manure as well as grain legumes and green manures, although grain legumes may fix limited nitrogen because they are harvested. Horticultural farms that grow fruits and vegetables in protected conditions often rely even more on external inputs.\n\nBiological research into soil and soil organisms has proven beneficial to organic farming. Varieties of bacteria and fungi break down chemicals, plant matter and animal waste into productive soil nutrients. In turn, they produce benefits of healthier yields and more productive soil for future crops. Fields with less or no manure display significantly lower yields, due to decreased soil microbe community. Increased manure improves biological activity, providing a healthier, more arable soil system and higher yields.\n\nOrganic weed management promotes weed suppression, rather than weed elimination, by enhancing crop competition and phytotoxic effects on weeds. Organic farmers integrate cultural, biological, mechanical, physical and chemical tactics to manage weeds without synthetic herbicides.\n\nOrganic standards require rotation of annual crops, meaning that a single crop cannot be grown in the same location without a different, intervening crop. Organic crop rotations frequently include weed-suppressive cover crops and crops with dissimilar life cycles to discourage weeds associated with a particular crop. Research is ongoing to develop organic methods to promote the growth of natural microorganisms that suppress the growth or germination of common weeds.\n\nOther cultural practices used to enhance crop competitiveness and reduce weed pressure include selection of competitive crop varieties, high-density planting, tight row spacing, and late planting into warm soil to encourage rapid crop germination.\n\nMechanical and physical weed control practices used on organic farms can be broadly grouped as:\n\nSome naturally sourced chemicals are allowed for herbicidal use. These include certain formulations of acetic acid (concentrated vinegar), corn gluten meal, and essential oils. A few selective bioherbicides based on fungal pathogens have also been developed. At this time, however, organic herbicides and bioherbicides play a minor role in the organic weed control toolbox.\n\nWeeds can be controlled by grazing. For example, geese have been used successfully to weed a range of organic crops including cotton, strawberries, tobacco, and corn, reviving the practice of keeping cotton patch geese, common in the southern U.S. before the 1950s. Similarly, some rice farmers introduce ducks and fish to wet paddy fields to eat both weeds and insects.\n\nOrganisms aside from weeds that cause problems on organic farms include arthropods (e.g., insects, mites), nematodes, fungi and bacteria. Organic practices include, but are not limited to:\n\n\nExamples of predatory beneficial insects include minute pirate bugs, big-eyed bugs, and to a lesser extent ladybugs (which tend to fly away), all of which eat a wide range of pests. Lacewings are also effective, but tend to fly away. Praying mantis tend to move more slowly and eat less heavily. Parasitoid wasps tend to be effective for their selected prey, but like all small insects can be less effective outdoors because the wind controls their movement. Predatory mites are effective for controlling other mites.\n\nNaturally derived insecticides allowed for use on organic farms use include \"Bacillus thuringiensis\" (a bacterial toxin), pyrethrum (a chrysanthemum extract), spinosad (a bacterial metabolite), neem (a tree extract) and rotenone (a legume root extract). Fewer than 10% of organic farmers use these pesticides regularly; one survey found that only 5.3% of vegetable growers in California use rotenone while 1.7% use pyrethrum. These pesticides are not always more safe or environmentally friendly than synthetic pesticides and can cause harm. The main criterion for organic pesticides is that they are naturally derived, and some naturally derived substances have been controversial. Controversial natural pesticides include rotenone, copper, nicotine sulfate, and pyrethrums Rotenone and pyrethrum are particularly controversial because they work by attacking the nervous system, like most conventional insecticides. Rotenone is extremely toxic to fish and can induce symptoms resembling Parkinson's disease in mammals. Although pyrethrum (natural pyrethrins) is more effective against insects when used with piperonyl butoxide (which retards degradation of the pyrethrins), organic standards generally do not permit use of the latter substance.\n\nNaturally derived fungicides allowed for use on organic farms include the bacteria \"Bacillus subtilis\" and \"Bacillus pumilus\"; and the fungus \"Trichoderma harzianum\". These are mainly effective for diseases affecting roots. Compost tea contains a mix of beneficial microbes, which may attack or out-compete certain plant pathogens, but variability among formulations and preparation methods may contribute to inconsistent results or even dangerous growth of toxic microbes in compost teas.\n\nSome naturally derived pesticides are not allowed for use on organic farms. These include nicotine sulfate, arsenic, and strychnine.\n\nSynthetic pesticides allowed for use on organic farms include insecticidal soaps and horticultural oils for insect management; and Bordeaux mixture, copper hydroxide and sodium bicarbonate for managing fungi. Copper sulfate and Bordeaux mixture (copper sulfate plus lime), approved for organic use in various jurisdictions, can be more environmentally problematic than some synthetic fungicides dissallowed in organic farming Similar concerns apply to copper hydroxide. Repeated application of copper sulfate or copper hydroxide as a fungicide may eventually result in copper accumulation to toxic levels in soil, and admonitions to avoid excessive accumulations of copper in soil appear in various organic standards and elsewhere. Environmental concerns for several kinds of biota arise at average rates of use of such substances for some crops. In the European Union, where replacement of copper-based fungicides in organic agriculture is a policy priority, research is seeking alternatives for organic production.\n\nRaising livestock and poultry, for meat, dairy and eggs, is another traditional farming activity that complements growing. Organic farms attempt to provide animals with natural living conditions and feed. Organic certification verifies that livestock are raised according to the USDA organic regulations throughout their lives. These regulations include the requirement that all animal feed must be certified organic.\n\nOrganic livestock may be, and must be, treated with medicine when they are sick, but drugs cannot be used to promote growth, their feed must be organic, and they must be pastured.\n\nAlso, horses and cattle were once a basic farm feature that provided labor, for hauling and plowing, fertility, through recycling of manure, and fuel, in the form of food for farmers and other animals. While today, small growing operations often do not include livestock, domesticated animals are a desirable part of the organic farming equation, especially for true sustainability, the ability of a farm to function as a self-renewing unit.\n\nA key characteristic of organic farming is the rejection of genetically engineered plants and animals. On 19 October 1998, participants at IFOAM's 12th Scientific Conference issued the Mar del Plata Declaration, where more than 600 delegates from over 60 countries voted unanimously to exclude the use of genetically modified organisms in food production and agriculture.\n\nAlthough opposition to the use of any transgenic technologies in organic farming is strong, agricultural researchers Luis Herrera-Estrella and Ariel Alvarez-Morales continue to advocate integration of transgenic technologies into organic farming as the optimal means to sustainable agriculture, particularly in the developing world, as does author and scientist Pamela Ronald, who views this kind of biotechnology as being consistent with organic principles.\n\nAlthough GMOs are excluded from organic farming, there is concern that the pollen from genetically modified crops is increasingly penetrating organic and heirloom seed stocks, making it difficult, if not impossible, to keep these genomes from entering the organic food supply. Differing regulations among countries limits the availability of GMOs to certain countries, as described in the article on regulation of the release of genetic modified organisms.\n\nOrganic farmers use a number of traditional farm tools to do farming. Due to the goals of sustainability in organic farming, organic farmers try to minimize their reliance on fossil fuels. In the developing world on small organic farms tools are normally constrained to hand tools and diesel powered water pumps.\n\nStandards regulate production methods and in some cases final output for organic agriculture. Standards may be voluntary or legislated. As early as the 1970s private associations certified organic producers. In the 1980s, governments began to produce organic production guidelines. In the 1990s, a trend toward legislated standards began, most notably with the 1991 EU-Eco-regulation developed for European Union, which set standards for 12 countries, and a 1993 UK program. The EU's program was followed by a Japanese program in 2001, and in 2002 the U.S. created the National Organic Program (NOP). As of 2007 over 60 countries regulate organic farming (IFOAM 2007:11). In 2005 IFOAM created the Principles of Organic Agriculture, an international guideline for certification criteria. Typically the agencies accredit certification groups rather than individual farms.\n\nOrganic production materials used in and foods are tested independently by the Organic Materials Review Institute.\n\nUsing manure as a fertilizer risks contaminating food with animal gut bacteria, including pathogenic strains of E. coli that have caused fatal poisoning from eating organic food. To combat this risk, USDA organic standards require that manure must be sterilized through high temperature thermophilic composting. If raw animal manure is used, 120 days must pass before the crop is harvested if the final product comes into direct contact with the soil. For products that don't directly contact soil, 90 days must pass prior to harvest.\n\nThe economics of organic farming, a subfield of agricultural economics, encompasses the entire process and effects of organic farming in terms of human society, including social costs, opportunity costs, unintended consequences, information asymmetries, and economies of scale. Although the scope of economics is broad, agricultural economics tends to focus on maximizing yields and efficiency at the farm level. Economics takes an anthropocentric approach to the value of the natural world: biodiversity, for example, is considered beneficial only to the extent that it is valued by people and increases profits. Some entities such as the European Union subsidize organic farming, in large part because these countries want to account for the externalities of reduced water use, reduced water contamination, reduced soil erosion, reduced carbon emissions, increased biodiversity, and assorted other benefits that result from organic farming.\n\nTraditional organic farming is labor and knowledge-intensive whereas conventional farming is capital-intensive, requiring more energy and manufactured inputs.\n\nOrganic farmers in California have cited marketing as their greatest obstacle.\n\nThe markets for organic products are strongest in North America and Europe, which as of 2001 are estimated to have $6 and $8 billion respectively of the $20 billion global market. As of 2007 Australasia has 39% of the total organic farmland, including Australia's but 97 percent of this land is sprawling rangeland (2007:35). US sales are 20x as much. Europe farms 23 percent of global organic farmland (), followed by Latin America with 19 percent (5.8 million hectares - 14.3 million acres). Asia has 9.5 percent while North America has 7.2 percent. Africa has 3 percent.\n\nBesides Australia, the countries with the most organic farmland are Argentina (3.1 million hectares - 7.7 million acres), China (2.3 million hectares - 5.7 million acres), and the United States (1.6 million hectares - 4 million acres). Much of Argentina's organic farmland is pasture, like that of Australia (2007:42). Spain, Germany, Brazil (the world's largest agricultural exporter), Uruguay, and the England follow the United States in the amount of organic land (2007:26).\n\nIn the European Union (EU25) 3.9% of the total utilized agricultural area was used for organic production in 2005. The countries with the highest proportion of organic land were Austria (11%) and Italy (8.4%), followed by the Czech Republic and Greece (both 7.2%). The lowest figures were shown for Malta (0.2%), Poland (0.6%) and Ireland (0.8%).\nIn 2009, the proportion of organic land in the EU grew to 4.7%. The countries with highest share of agricultural land were Liechtenstein (26.9%), Austria (18.5%) and Sweden (12.6%). 16% of all farmers in Austria produced organically in 2010. By the same year the proportion of organic land increased to 20%.: In 2005 168,000 ha (415,000 ac) of land in Poland was under organic management. In 2012, 288,261 hectares (712,308 acres) were under organic production, and there were about 15,500 organic farmers; retail sales of organic products were EUR 80 million in 2011. As of 2012 organic exports were part of the government's economic development strategy.\n\nAfter the collapse of the Soviet Union in 1991, agricultural inputs that had previously been purchased from Eastern bloc countries were no longer available in Cuba, and many Cuban farms converted to organic methods out of necessity. Consequently, organic agriculture is a mainstream practice in Cuba, while it remains an alternative practice in most other countries. Cuba's organic strategy includes development of genetically modified crops; specifically corn that is resistant to the palomilla moth.\n\nIn 2001, the global market value of certified organic products was estimated at USD $20 billion. By 2002, this was USD $23 billion and by 2015 more than USD $43 billion. By 2014, retail sales of organic products reached USD $80 billion worldwide. North America and Europe accounted for more than 90% of all organic product sales. In 2018 Australia accounted for 54% of the world's certified organic land with the country recording more than 35,000,000 verified organic hectares.\n\nOrganic agricultural land increased almost fourfold in 15 years, from 11 million hectares in 1999 to 43.7 million hectares in 2014. Between 2013 and 2014, organic agricultural land grew by 500,000 hectares worldwide, increasing in every region except Latin America. During this time period, Europe’s organic farmland increased 260,000 hectares to 11.6 million total (+2.3%), Asia’s increased 159,000 hectares to 3.6 million total (+4.7%), Africa’s increased 54,000 hectares to 1.3 million total (+4.5%), and North America’s increased 35,000 hectares to 3.1 million total (+1.1%). As of 2014, the country with the most organic land was Australia (17.2 million hectares), followed by Argentina (3.1 million hectares), and the United States (2.2 million hectares). Australia's organic land area has increased at a rate of 16.5% per annum for the past eighteen years.\n\nIn 2013, the number of organic producers grew by almost 270,000, or more than 13%. By 2014, there were a reported 2.3 million organic producers in the world. Most of the total global increase took place in the Philippines, Peru, China, and Thailand. Overall, the majority of all organic producers are in India (650,000 in 2013), Uganda (190,552 in 2014), Mexico (169,703 in 2013) and the Philippines (165,974 in 2014).\n\nStudies comparing yields have had mixed results. These differences among findings can often be attributed to variations between study designs including differences in the crops studied and the methodology by which results were gathered.\n\nA 2012 meta-analysis found that productivity is typically lower for organic farming than conventional farming, but that the size of the difference depends on context and in some cases may be very small. While organic yields can be lower than conventional yields, another meta-analysis published in Sustainable Agriculture Research in 2015, concluded that certain organic on-farm practices could help narrow this gap. Timely weed management and the application of manure in conjunction with legume forages/cover crops were shown to have positive results in increasing organic corn and soybean productivity.\n\nAnother meta-analysis published in the journal Agricultural Systems in 2011 analyzed 362 datasets and found that organic yields were on average 80% of conventional yields. The author's found that there are relative differences in this yield gap based on crop type with crops like soybeans and rice scoring higher than the 80% average and crops like wheat and potato scoring lower. Across global regions, Asia and Central Europe were found to have relatively higher yields and Northern Europe relatively lower than the average.\n\nA 2007 study compiling research from 293 different comparisons into a single study to assess the overall efficiency of the two agricultural systems has concluded that \"organic methods could produce enough food on a global per capita basis to sustain the current human population, and potentially an even larger population, without increasing the agricultural land base.\" The researchers also found that while in developed countries, organic systems on average produce 92% of the yield produced by conventional agriculture, organic systems produce 80% more than conventional farms in developing countries, because the materials needed for organic farming are more accessible than synthetic farming materials to farmers in some poor countries. This study's methodology and results were contested by D.J. Connor of The University of Melbourne, in a short communication published in Field Crops Research. Connor writes that errors in Badgley et al. result in \"major overestimation of the productivity of OA\".\n\nA study published in 2005 compared conventional cropping, organic animal-based cropping, and organic legume-based cropping on a test farm at the Rodale Institute over 22 years. The study found that \"the crop yields for corn and soybeans were similar in the organic animal, organic legume, and conventional farming systems\". It also found that \"significantly less fossil energy was expended to produce corn in the Rodale Institute’s organic animal and organic legume systems than in the conventional production system. There was little difference in energy input between the different treatments for producing soybeans. In the organic systems, synthetic fertilizers and pesticides were generally not used\". As of 2013 the Rodale study was ongoing and a thirty-year anniversary report was published by Rodale in 2012.\n\nA long-term field study comparing organic/conventional agriculture carried out over 21 years in Switzerland concluded that \"Crop yields of the organic systems averaged over 21 experimental years at 80% of the conventional ones. The fertilizer input, however, was 34 – 51% lower, indicating an efficient production. The organic farming systems used 20 – 56% less energy to produce a\ncrop unit and per land area this difference was 36 – 53%. In spite of the considerably lower pesticide input the quality of organic products was hardly discernible from conventional analytically and even came off better in food preference trials and picture creating methods\"\n\nIn the United States, organic farming has been shown to be 2.7 to 3.8 times more profitable for the farmer than conventional farming when prevailing price premiums are taken into account. Globally, organic farming is between 22 and 35 percent more profitable for farmers than conventional methods, according to a 2015 meta-analysis of studies conducted across five continents.\n\nThe profitability of organic agriculture can be attributed to a number of factors. First, organic farmers do not rely on synthetic fertilizer and pesticide inputs, which can be costly. In addition, organic foods currently enjoy a price premium over conventionally produced foods, meaning that organic farmers can often get more for their yield.\n\nThe price premium for organic food is an important factor in the economic viability of organic farming. In 2013 there was a 100% price premium on organic vegetables and a 57% price premium for organic fruits. These percentages are based on wholesale fruit and vegetable prices, available through the United States Department of Agriculture’s Economic Research Service. Price premiums exist not only for organic versus nonorganic crops, but may also vary depending on the venue where the product is sold: farmers' markets, grocery stores, or wholesale to restaurants. For many producers, direct sales at farmers' markets are most profitable because the farmer receives the entire markup, however this is also the most time and labor-intensive approach.\n\nThere have been signs of organic price premiums narrowing in recent years, which lowers the economic incentive for farmers to convert to or maintain organic production methods. Data from 22 years of experiments at the Rodale Institute found that, based on the current yields and production costs associated with organic farming in the United States, a price premium of only 10% is required to achieve parity with conventional farming. A separate study found that on a global scale, price premiums of only 5-7% percent were needed to break even with conventional methods. Without the price premium, profitability for farmers is mixed.\n\nFor markets and supermarkets organic food is profitable as well, and is generally sold at significantly higher prices than non-organic food.\n\nIn the most recent assessments of the energy efficiency of organic versus conventional agriculture, results have been mixed regarding which form is more carbon efficient. Organic farm systems have more often than not been found to be more energy efficient, however, this is not always the case. More than anything, results tend to depend upon crop type and farm size.\n\nA comprehensive comparison of energy efficiency in grain production, produce yield, and animal husbandry concluded that organic farming had a higher yield per unit of energy over the vast majority of the crops and livestock systems. For example, two studies - both comparing organically- versus conventionally-farmed apples - declare contradicting results, one saying organic farming is more energy efficient, the other saying conventionally is more efficient.\n\nIt has generally been found that the labor input per unit of yield was higher for organic systems compared with conventional production.\n\nMost sales are concentrated in developed nations. In 2008, 69% of Americans claimed to occasionally buy organic products, down from 73% in 2005. One theory for this change was that consumers were substituting \"local\" produce for \"organic\" produce.\n\nThe USDA requires that distributors, manufacturers, and processors of organic products be certified by an accredited state or private agency. In 2007, there were 3,225 certified organic handlers, up from 2,790 in 2004.\n\nOrganic handlers are often small firms; 48% reported sales below $1 million annually, and 22% between $1 and $5 million per year. Smaller handlers are more likely to sell to independent natural grocery stores and natural product chains whereas large distributors more often market to natural product chains and conventional supermarkets, with a small group marketing to independent natural product stores. Some handlers work with conventional farmers to convert their land to organic with the knowledge that the farmer will have a secure sales outlet. This lowers the risk for the handler as well as the farmer. In 2004, 31% of handlers provided technical support on organic standards or production to their suppliers and 34% encouraged their suppliers to transition to organic. Smaller farms often join together in cooperatives to market their goods more effectively.\n\n93% of organic sales are through conventional and natural food supermarkets and chains, while the remaining 7% of U.S. organic food sales occur through farmers' markets, foodservices, and other marketing channels.\n\nIn the 2012 Census, direct-to-consumer sales equaled $1.3 billion, up from $812 million in 2002, an increase of 60 percent. The number of farms that utilize direct-to-consumer sales was 144,530 in 2012 in comparison to 116,733 in 2002. Direct-to-consumer sales include farmers' markets, community supported agriculture (CSA), on-farm stores, and roadside farm stands. Some organic farms also sell products direct to retailer, direct to restaurant and direct to institution. According to the 2008 Organic Production Survey, approximately 7% of organic farm sales were direct-to-consumers, 10% went direct to retailers, and approximately 83% went into wholesale markets. In comparison, only 0.4% of the value of convention agricultural commodities were direct-to-consumers.\n\nWhile not all products sold at farmer’s markets are certified organic, this direct-to-consumer avenue has become increasingly popular in local food distribution and has grown substantially since 1994. In 2014, there were 8,284 farmer’s markets in comparison to 3,706 in 2004 and 1,755 in 1994, most of which are found in populated areas such as the Northeast, Midwest, and West Coast.\n\nOrganic production is more labor-intensive than conventional production. On the one hand, this increased labor cost is one factor that makes organic food more expensive. On the other hand, the increased need for labor may be seen as an \"employment dividend\" of organic farming, providing more jobs per unit area than conventional systems. The 2011 UNEP Green Economy Report suggests that \"[a]n increase in investment in green agriculture is projected to lead to growth in employment of about 60 per cent compared with current levels\" and that \"green agriculture investments could create 47 million additional jobs compared with BAU2 over the next 40 years.\" The United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) also argues that \"[b]y greening agriculture and food distribution, more calories per person per day, more jobs and business opportunities especially in rural areas, and market-access opportunities, especially for developing countries, will be available.\"\n\nIn 2007 the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) said that organic agriculture often leads to higher prices and hence a better income for farmers, so it should be promoted. However, FAO stressed that by organic farming one could not feed the current mankind, even less the bigger future population. Both data and models showed then that organic farming was far from sufficient. Therefore, chemical fertilizers were needed to avoid hunger. Other analysis by many agribusiness executives, agricultural and ecological scientists, and international agriculture experts revealed the opinion that organic farming would not only increase the world's food supply, but might be the only way to eradicate hunger.\n\nFAO stressed that fertilizers and other chemical inputs can much increase the production, particularly in Africa where fertilizers are currently used 90% less than in Asia. For example, in Malawi the yield has been boosted using seeds and fertilizers. FAO also calls for using biotechnology, as it can help smallholder farmers to improve their income and food security.\n\nAlso NEPAD, development organization of African governments, announced that feeding Africans and preventing malnutrition requires fertilizers and enhanced seeds.\n\nAccording to a 2012 study in ScienceDigest, organic best management practices shows an average yield only 13% less than conventional. In the world's poorer nations where most of the world's hungry live, and where conventional agriculture's expensive inputs are not affordable by the majority of farmers, adopting organic management actually increases yields 93% on average, and could be an important part of increased food security.\n\nOrganic agriculture can contribute to ecological sustainability, especially in poorer countries. The application of organic principles enables employment of local resources (e.g., local seed varieties, manure, etc.) and therefore cost-effectiveness. Local and international markets for organic products show tremendous growth prospects and offer creative producers and exporters excellent opportunities to improve their income and living conditions.\n\nOrganic agriculture is knowledge intensive. Globally, capacity building efforts are underway, including localized training material, to limited effect. As of 2007, the International Federation of Organic Agriculture Movements hosted more than 170 free manuals and 75 training opportunities online.\n\nIn 2008 the United Nations Environmental Programme (UNEP) and the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD) stated that \"organic agriculture can be more conducive to food security in Africa than most conventional production systems, and that it is more likely to be sustainable in the long-term\" and that \"yields had more than doubled where organic, or near-organic practices had been used\" and that soil fertility and drought resistance improved.\n\nThe value of organic agriculture (OA) in the achievement of the Millennium Development Goals (MDG), particularly in poverty reduction efforts in the face of climate change, is shown by its contribution to both income and non-income aspects of the MDGs. These benefits are expected to continue in the post-MDG era. A series of case studies conducted in selected areas in Asian countries by the Asian Development Bank Institute (ADBI) and published as a book compilation by ADB in Manila document these contributions to both income and non-income aspects of the MDGs. These include poverty alleviation by way of higher incomes, improved farmers' health owing to less chemical exposure, integration of sustainable principles into rural development policies, improvement of access to safe water and sanitation, and expansion of global partnership for development as small farmers are integrated in value chains.\n\nA related ADBI study also sheds on the costs of OA programs and set them in the context of the costs of attaining the MDGs. The results show considerable variation across the case studies, suggesting that there is no clear structure to the costs of adopting OA. Costs depend on the efficiency of the OA adoption programs. The lowest cost programs were more than ten times less expensive than the highest cost ones. However, further analysis of the gains resulting from OA adoption reveals that the costs per person taken out of poverty was much lower than the estimates of the World Bank, based on income growth in general or based on the detailed costs of meeting some of the more quantifiable MDGs (e.g., education, health, and environment).\n\nAgriculture imposes negative externalities (uncompensated costs) upon society through public land and other public resource use, biodiversity loss, erosion, pesticides, nutrient runoff, subsidized water usage, subsidy payments and assorted other problems. Positive externalities include self-reliance, entrepreneurship, respect for nature, and air quality. Organic methods reduce some of these costs. In 2000 uncompensated costs for 1996 reached 2,343 million British pounds or £208 per ha (£84.20/ac). A study of practices in the US published in 2005 concluded that cropland costs the economy approximately 5 to 16 billion dollars ($30–96/ha – $12–39/ac), while livestock production costs 714 million dollars. Both studies recommended reducing externalities. The 2000 review included reported pesticide poisonings but did not include speculative chronic health effects of pesticides, and the 2004 review relied on a 1992 estimate of the total impact of pesticides.\n\nIt has been proposed that organic agriculture can reduce the level of some negative externalities from (conventional) agriculture. Whether the benefits are private or public depends upon the division of property rights.\n\nSeveral surveys and studies have attempted to examine and compare conventional and organic systems of farming and have found that organic techniques, while not without harm, are less damaging than conventional ones because they reduce levels of biodiversity less than conventional systems do and use less energy and produce less waste when calculated per unit area.\n\nA 2003 to 2005 investigation by the Cranfield University for the Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs in the UK found that it is difficult to compare the Global warming potential, acidification and eutrophication emissions but \"Organic production often results in increased burdens, from factors such as N leaching and N2O emissions\", even though primary energy use was less for most organic products. NO is always the largest global warming potential contributor except in tomatoes. However, \"organic tomatoes always incur more burdens (except pesticide use)\". Some emissions were lower \"per area\", but organic farming always required 65 to 200% more field area than non-organic farming. The numbers were highest for bread wheat (200+ % more) and potatoes (160% more).\n\nResearchers at Oxford University analyzed 71 peer-reviewed studies and observed that organic products are sometimes worse for the environment. Organic milk, cereals, and pork generated higher greenhouse gas emissions per product than conventional ones but organic beef and olives had lower emissions in most studies. Usually organic products required less energy, but more land. Per unit of product, organic produce generates higher nitrogen leaching, nitrous oxide emissions, ammonia emissions, eutrophication, and acidification potential than conventionally grown produce. Other differences were not significant. The researchers concluded that public debate should consider various manners of employing conventional or organic farming, and not merely debate conventional farming as opposed to organic farming. They also sought to find specific solutions to specific circumstances.\n\nProponents of organic farming have claimed that organic agriculture emphasizes closed nutrient cycles, biodiversity, and effective soil management providing the capacity to mitigate and even reverse the effects of climate change and that organic agriculture can decrease fossil fuel emissions. \"The carbon sequestration efficiency of organic systems in temperate climates is almost double (575–700 kg carbon per ha per year – 510–625 lb/ac/an ) that of conventional treatment of soils, mainly owing to the use of grass clovers for feed and of cover crops in organic rotations.\"\n\nCritics of organic farming methods believe that the increased land needed to farm organic food could potentially destroy the rainforests and wipe out many ecosystems.\n\nAccording to a 2012 meta-analysis of 71 studies, nitrogen leaching, nitrous oxide emissions, ammonia emissions, eutrophication potential and acidification potential were higher for organic products, although in one study \"nitrate leaching was 4.4–5.6 times higher in conventional plots than organic plots\".\n\nExcess nutrients in lakes, rivers, and groundwater can cause algal blooms, eutrophication, and subsequent dead zones. In addition, nitrates are harmful to aquatic organisms by themselves.\n\nThe Oxford meta-analysis of 71 studies found that organic farming requires 84% more land for an equivalent amount of harvest, mainly due to lack of nutrients but sometimes due to weeds, diseases or pests, lower yielding animals and land required for fertility building crops. While organic farming does not necessarily save land for wildlife habitats and forestry in all cases, the most modern breakthroughs in organic are addressing these issues with success.\n\nProfessor Wolfgang Branscheid says that organic animal production is not good for the environment, because organic chicken requires twice as much land as \"conventional\" chicken and organic pork a quarter more. According to a calculation by Hudson Institute, organic beef requires three times as much land. On the other hand, certain organic methods of animal husbandry have been shown to restore desertified, marginal, and/or otherwise unavailable land to agricultural productivity and wildlife. Or by getting both forage and cash crop production from the same fields simultaneously, reduce net land use.\n\nIn England organic farming yields 55% of normal yields. In other regions of the world, organic methods have started producing record yields.\n\nIn organic farming synthetic pesticides are generally prohibited. A chemical is said to be synthetic if it does not already exist in the natural world. But the organic label goes further and usually prohibit compounds that exist in nature if they are produced by chemical synthesis. So the prohibition is also about the method of production and not only the nature of the compound.\n\nA non-exhaustive list of organic approved pesticides with their median lethal doses:\n\n\nWhile there may be some differences in the amounts of nutrients and anti-nutrients when organically produced food and conventionally produced food are compared, the variable nature of food production and handling makes it difficult to generalize results, and there is insufficient evidence to make claims that organic food is safer or healthier than conventional food. Claims that organic food tastes better are not supported by evidence.\n\nSupporters claim that organically managed soil has a higher quality and higher water retention. This may help increase yields for organic farms in drought years. Organic farming can build up soil organic matter better than conventional no-till farming, which suggests long-term yield benefits from organic farming. An 18-year study of organic methods on nutrient-depleted soil concluded that conventional methods were superior for soil fertility and yield for nutrient-depleted soils in cold-temperate climates, arguing that much of the benefit from organic farming derives from imported materials that could not be regarded as self-sustaining.\n\nIn \"Dirt: The Erosion of Civilizations\", geomorphologist David Montgomery outlines a coming crisis from soil erosion. Agriculture relies on roughly one meter of topsoil, and that is being depleted ten times faster than it is being replaced. No-till farming, which some claim depends upon pesticides, is one way to minimize erosion. However, a 2007 study by the USDA's Agricultural Research Service has found that manure applications in tilled organic farming are better at building up the soil than no-till.\n\nThe conservation of natural resources and biodiversity is a core principle of organic production. Three broad management practices (prohibition/reduced use of chemical pesticides and inorganic fertilizers; sympathetic management of non-cropped habitats; and preservation of mixed farming) that are largely intrinsic (but not exclusive) to organic farming are particularly beneficial for farmland wildlife. Using practices that attract or introduce beneficial insects, provide habitat for birds and mammals, and provide conditions that increase soil biotic diversity serve to supply vital ecological services to organic production systems. Advantages to certified organic operations that implement these types of production practices include: 1) decreased dependence on outside fertility inputs; 2) reduced pest management costs; 3) more reliable sources of clean water; and 4) better pollination.\n\nNearly all non-crop, naturally occurring species observed in comparative farm land practice studies show a preference for organic farming both by abundance and diversity. An average of 30% more species inhabit organic farms. Birds, butterflies, soil microbes, beetles, earthworms, spiders, vegetation, and mammals are particularly affected. Lack of herbicides and pesticides improve biodiversity fitness and population density. Many weed species attract beneficial insects that improve soil qualities and forage on weed pests. Soil-bound organisms often benefit because of increased bacteria populations due to natural fertilizer such as manure, while experiencing reduced intake of herbicides and pesticides. Increased biodiversity, especially from beneficial soil microbes and mycorrhizae have been proposed as an explanation for the high yields experienced by some organic plots, especially in light of the differences seen in a 21-year comparison of organic and control fields.\n\nBiodiversity from organic farming provides capital to humans. Species found in organic farms enhance sustainability by reducing human input (e.g., fertilizers, pesticides).\n\nThe USDA’s Agricultural Marketing Service (AMS) published a \"Federal Register\" notice on 15 January 2016, announcing the National Organic Program (NOP) final guidance on Natural Resources and Biodiversity Conservation for Certified Organic Operations. Given the broad scope of natural resources which includes soil, water, wetland, woodland and wildlife, the guidance provides examples of practices that support the underlying conservation principles and demonstrate compliance with USDA organic regulations § 205.200. The final guidance provides organic certifiers and farms with examples of production practices that support conservation principles and comply with the USDA organic regulations, which require operations to maintain or improve natural resources. The final guidance also clarifies the role of certified operations (to submit an OSP to a certifier), certifiers (ensure that the OSP describes or lists practices that explain the operator's monitoring plan and practices to support natural resources and biodiversity conservation), and inspectors (onsite inspection) in the implementation and verification of these production practices.\n\nA wide range of organisms benefit from organic farming, but it is unclear whether organic methods confer greater benefits than conventional integrated agri-environmental programs. Organic farming is often presented as a more biodiversity-friendly practice, but the generality of the beneficial effects of organic farming is debated as the effects appear often species- and context-dependent, and current research has highlighted the need to quantify the relative effects of local- and landscape-scale management on farmland biodiversity. There are four key issues when comparing the impacts on biodiversity of organic and conventional farming: (1) It remains unclear whether a holistic whole-farm approach (i.e. organic) provides greater benefits to biodiversity than carefully targeted prescriptions applied to relatively small areas of cropped and/or non-cropped habitats within conventional agriculture (i.e. agri-environment schemes); (2) Many comparative studies encounter methodological problems, limiting their ability to draw quantitative conclusions; (3) Our knowledge of the impacts of organic farming in pastoral and upland agriculture is limited; (4) There remains a pressing need for longitudinal, system-level studies in order to address these issues and to fill in the gaps in our knowledge of the impacts of organic farming, before a full appraisal of its potential role in biodiversity conservation in agroecosystems can be made.\n\nOrganic agriculture is often considered to be more socially just and economically sustainable for farmworkers than conventional agriculture. However, there is little social science research or consensus as to whether or not organic agriculture provides better working conditions than conventional agriculture. As many consumers equate organic and sustainable agriculture with small-scale, family-owned organizations it is widely interpreted that buying organic supports better conditions for farmworkers than buying with conventional producers. Organic agriculture is generally more labor-intensive due to its dependence on manual practices for fertilization and pest removal and relies heavily upon hired, non-family farmworkers rather than family members. Although illnesses from synthetic inputs pose less of a risk, hired workers still fall victim to debilitating musculoskeletal disorders associated with agricultural work. The USDA certification requirements outline growing practices and ecological standards but do nothing to codify labor practices. Independent certification initiatives such as the Agricultural Justice Project, Domestic Fair Trade Working Group, and the Food Alliance have attempted to implement farmworker interests but because these initiatives require voluntary participation of organic farms, their standards cannot be widely enforced.Despite the benefit to farmworkers of implementing labor standards, there is little support among the organic community for these social requirements. Many actors of the organic industry believe that enforcing labor standards would be unnecessary, unacceptable, or unviable due to the constraints of the market.\n\nIn India, in 2016, the northern state of Sikkim achieved its goal of converting to 100% organic farming. Other states of India, including Kerala, Mizoram, Goa, Rajasthan, and Meghalaya, have also declared their intentions to shift to fully organic cultivation.\n\nThe Dominican Republic has successfully converted a large amount of its banana crop to organic. The Dominican Republic accounts for 55% of the world’s certified organic bananas.\n\nIn Thailand, the Institute for Sustainable Agricultural Communities (ISAC) was established in 1991 to promote organic farming (among other sustainable agricultural practices). The national target via the National Plan for Organic Farming is to attain, by 2021, 1.3 million rai of organically farmed land. Another target is for 40% of the produce from these farmlands to be consumed domestically.\n\nMuch progress has been made:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10596439", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10596439", "title": "Organisation for the Maintenance of Supplies", "text": "Organisation for the Maintenance of Supplies\n\nThe Organisation for the Maintenance of Supplies was a British right-wing movement, established in 1925 to provide volunteers in the event of a general strike. During the General Strike of 1926, it was taken over by the government to provide vital services, such as transport and communications.\n\nOn \"Red Friday\", 31 July 1925, the government avoided a confrontation with the Miners Federation of Great Britain, which was expected to be followed by secondary industrial action by the railwaymen of the National Union of Railwaymen, and wider confrontation. However, as Stanley Baldwin said later, \"we were not ready\". The government had an emergency plan but inadequate means of implementing it. It thus established a Royal Commission and provided a subsidy to enable the mineowners to maintain the miners' existing wages and hours of work.\n\nIn early August, Home Secretary William Joynson-Hicks reported to the cabinet on the state of preparations, and his recommendations were approved, but the establishment of a volunteer service was deferred.\n\nThe OMS had its public origins in the letters page of \"The Times\", where many were calling for the formation of a volunteer organisation to take over the jobs of striking workers, in the event of a general strike, which was widely feared by the conservative establishment at the time, as part of a 'communist plot'. The same page was used on 25 September 1925 by the Home Secretary to announce the formation of just such a group, the new OMS. Nevertheless, he admitted, on 1 October, that he had known of its inauguration for many weeks and that its promoters had consulted him. The government had no objection to it. \n\nThe organisation, to be run by a committee chaired by Lord Hardinge, was to have branches in every city and to recruit volunteers in five classes, four of which were based on the men's fitness and age. The fifth was for women, who were to be set to work only where they could avoid any \"rough handling\". Lord Jellicoe and other top military men sat on the committee, to give the OMS a military discipline and to instill public confidence in the group that such important figures were involved.\n\nThe organisation was, however, explicitly non-political. British Fascists were barred from joining unless they changed their name, abandoned their military structure and changed their manifesto. That led to a split in the British Fascists, with several leaders leaving to become the \"loyalists\", an organisation that would be absorbed into OMS. Still, it showed apparent independence by employing nobody in government service.\n\nWhilst the scheme was enthusiastically supported by the right-wing \"Daily Mail\" it was denounced as a form of fascism not only by the Communist Party of Great Britain but also by the anti-communist \"Daily Express\", which compared the OMS to the Ku Klux Klan and the Blackshirts. An early speech by one of the group's leaders was deemed unfit for broadcast by the BBC, which feared that it would compromise their impartiality.\n\nBrigadier-General William Horwood, the Commissioner of the Metropolitan Police also refused to work with what he believed to be a fascist organisation, and by the end of 1925 the government had informed General Sir Robert McCalmont that in the event of any general strike, the OMS would be disbanded and its membership taken over entirely by the government. \n\nStill, the OMS had the confidence of some provincial police forces and branches of the Conservative Party despite its inauspicious start.\n\nThe development of OMS was not regarded as wholly favourable by some government officials, who were concerned at rumours that OMS agents were expecting to supplant official organisations in the event of an emergency. The junior ministers William Mitchell-Thomson and J.C.C. Davidson met the leaders of OMS, who agreed not to establish branches where there were local objections, but to encourage unofficial contacts between the local officials. OMS would concentrate on recruiting lorry drivers rather than those more likely to be employed by local authorities. \n\nOMS was short of funds by March 1926, having failed to gain the commercial backing that it hoped. It also lacked the means to train volunteers. \nFollowing the outbreak of the strike and the introduction by the government of emergency powers, it turned over its membership lists to the new government civil commissioners and so became a state organisation. Although the OMS name continued to be used, any notion of independence was abandoned, and it became an arm of government. The group had some 100,000 members registered at the commencement of the strike, but the middle class of many of its volunteers meant that they often proved wholly unsuited to the manual work, such as the running railways and ports.\n\nIt produced slightly over 5000 volunteers. Car drivers, lorry drivers and power station workers were the largest groups. \n\nIt managed to produce the \"British Gazette\", a pro-government newspaper, during the strike.\n\nThe British Fascisti (BF), which maintained transport and communications units to be used in the event of a strike, provided an organisational structure for the OMS, but there was uncertainty at government level about allowing BF members to join the OMS given fears about their potentially revolutionary nature. Members of the BF were allowed to join only if it agreed to renounce fascism and the BF name, which wss rejected by the majority of the group's controlling committee, under Rotha Lintorn-Orman. The minority faction, led by Brigadier-General R.B.D. Blakeney and Rear-Admiral A.E. Armstrong, split to form a new group known as the Loyalists (as well as the Scottish Loyalists under the Earl of Glasgow), which was subsumed into the OMS as soon as the strike began.\n\nStill, individual fascists obtained high rank within the OMS. BF member and later co-founder of the National Fascisti Colonel Ralph Bingham worked along with Peter Howard, who had published a magazine for fascists in Ukraine and would later be a member of the New Party. They ran an OMS depot during the strike. The BF's Neil Francis Hawkins, later a leading figure within both the British Union of Fascists and the Union Movement, was also important in the OMS during the strike.\n\nThe OMS can in some ways be compared to 1970s movements such as Civil Assistance, which played on widespread public fear of trade union militancy.\n\n"}
{"id": "409913", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=409913", "title": "Our Posthuman Future", "text": "Our Posthuman Future\n\nOur Posthuman Future: Consequences of the Biotechnology Revolution is a 2002 book by Francis Fukuyama. In it, he discusses the potential threat to liberal democracy that use of new and emerging biotechnologies for transhumanist ends poses.\n\nFrom the back cover of the paperback edition:\n\nA decade after his now-famous pronouncement of \"the end of history\", Francis Fukuyama argues that as a result of biomedical advances, we are facing the possibility of a future in which our humanity itself will be altered beyond recognition. Fukuyama sketches a brief history of man's changing understanding of human nature: from Plato and Aristotle's belief that humans had \"natural ends\" to the ideals of utopians and dictators of the modern age who sought to remake mankind for ideological ends. Fukuyama argues that the ability to manipulate the DNA of all of one person's descendants will have profound, and potentially terrible, consequences for our political order, even if undertaken with the best of intentions.\n\nFukuyama defines human nature as \"the sum of the behavior and characteristics that are typical of the human species, arising from genetics rather than environmental factors.\" The \"typicality\" is further defined as a statistical phenomenon of the usual distribution of measured parameters describing human characteristics, such the normal distribution of height or intellectual quotient. The author recognizes that distinguishing \"pathological\" from \"normal\" is difficult, but insists that drawing the line between the two is not only possible, but is routinely achieved by regulatory agencies through a legislative process. \"It has often seemed to me that the only people who can argue that there is no difference in principle between disease and health are those who have never been sick: if you have a virus or fracture your leg, you know perfectly well that something is wrong.\"\n\nPossession of moral choice, human language, reason, sociability, emotions, sentience, and consciousness constitute distinguishing qualities that differentiate humans from animals. Fukuyama refers to the irreducible totality of these qualities as \"Factor X\", \"the complex whole\" as opposed to \"the sum of simple parts\", which forms the foundation of human dignity. Moreover, he believes that \"every member of the human species possesses a genetic endowment that allows him or her to become a whole human being, an endowment that distinguishes a human in essence from other types of creatures.\" Thus, he squarely places the source of human dignity in human genetics providing the argument against unregulated modification of human germline cells. Fukuyama argues that the moral status of human embryos is higher than that of human cells or human tissues because they possess \"the potential to become a full human being.\" He concludes that \"it is therefore reasonable, on non-religious grounds, to question whether researchers should be free to create, clone, and destroy human embryos at will.\"\n\nFrancis Fukuyama argues that informed discussion of human rights requires understanding of human purposes, which themselves rest on a concept of human nature and human dignity. Therefore, biotechnology targeting human nature will inevitably affect the discourse of values and politics. He provides several arguments to defend his human nature-based theory of rights: \n\nFukuyama recognizes that translation of human nature into rights is difficult, but possible through a rational discussion of human ends. In his opinion, control of biotechnology is a political necessity. \"Countries must regulate the development and use of technology politically, setting up institutions that will discriminate between those technological advances that promote human flourishing, and those that pose a threat to human dignity and well-being\". He rejects the idea that \"theology, philosophy, or politics\" should not influence the scientific process, because \"science by itself cannot establish the ends to which it is put.\" \"Nazi doctors who injected concentration camp victims with infection agents... were in fact legitimate scientists who gathered real data that could potentially be put to good use.\" Therefore, morality is needed to establish the end of science and the technology that science produces, and pronounce on whether those ends are good or bad.\" Political process that could decide on the legitimate uses of science is enabled by a democratically constituted political community acting through elected and scientifically informed representatives.\n\nFukuyama rejects the notion that biotechnology cannot be controlled. Nuclear weapons, nuclear power, ballistic missiles, biological and chemical warfare, illegal human organ trade, neuropharmacological drugs, genetically modified foods, human experimentation have been the subject of effective international political control. Occasional breaking of the law, cannot be used as an excuse not to pursue legislature at all. \"Every country makes murder a crime and attaches severe penalties to homicide, and yet murders nonetheless occur. The fact that they do has never been a reason for giving up on the law or on attempts to enforce it.\"\n\nAuthor outlines several issues that need to be address to establish an effective international regulation of biotechnology: \n\n\n"}
{"id": "15881121", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15881121", "title": "Outline of law enforcement", "text": "Outline of law enforcement\n\nThe following outline is provided as an overview of and introduction to law enforcement:\n\nLaw enforcement – subsystem of society that promotes adherence to the law by discovering and punishing persons who violate rules and norms governing that society. Although the term may encompass entities such as courts and prisons, it most frequently applies to those who directly engage in patrols or surveillance to dissuade and discover criminal activity, and those who investigate crimes and apprehend offenders.\n\n\n\nThe reasons law enforcement exists:\n\nLaw enforcement agency (list) – government agency responsible for enforcement of laws. Outside North America, such organizations are called police services. In North America, some of these services are called police while some have other names (e.g. sheriff's office/department; investigative police services in the United States are often called bureaus (e.g. FBI, USMS, ICE, CBP, ATF, DEA, USSS etc.)).\n\n\nHistory of law enforcement \n\n\nCriminal Investigation – applied science involving the study of facts, used to identify, locate and prove the guilt of a criminal. Modern-day criminal investigations commonly employ many scientific techniques known collectively as forensic science.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16956292", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16956292", "title": "Parti Indépendantiste", "text": "Parti Indépendantiste\n\nThe Parti indépendantiste (PI, in English: Independence Party) was a political party promoting the independence of Quebec from Canada.\n\nThe party was founded in 2007 by Éric Tremblay and Richard Gervais, in the aftermath of the Parti Québécois's defeat in the 2007 Quebec election. It was registered as an official political party by the Chief Electoral Officer of Quebec on October 18, 2007. Candidates ran in three by-elections in Bourget, Hull, and Pointe-aux-Trembles held on May 12, 2008. Party founder Richard Gervais, running in Bourget, received 376 votes (2.33%), finishing sixth out of six candidates.\n\nIn the December 2008 provincial election, the party nominated 19 candidates, who won a total of 4,227 votes, or 0.13% of the provincial total.\n\nOn November 24, 2011 at Université du Québec à Montréal, a debate between independentist parties included the Parti Québécois, Quebec solidaire and Option nationale, but excluded PI.\n\nIn the 2012 provincial election, the party nominated ten candidates, who won a total of 1,244 votes, or 0.03% of the provincial total.\n\nIn the 2014 provincial election, the party nominated one candidate, party leader Michel Lepage, who won 126 votes in Borduas riding.\n\nAccording to former leader Éric Tremblay, the Parti Québécois has given up the will to actively seek the sovereignty of Quebec. Tremblay considers that, if given a majority of seats at the National Assembly of Quebec, the Parti indépendantiste would have clear mandate to achieve sovereignty, even if it receives less than 50% of the popular vote. Tremblay did not hide his intention to put an end to all public financing of English-language schools and hospitals come his election, even though he would offer unilingual English-speakers health care in their language. The party suggests a reduction of more than half of the number of immigrants admitted, which would be reduced to 20,000, and the selection of immigrants based on the knowledge of French.\n\nÉric Tremblay was the leader from 2008 to 2011, and the leader since 2011 has been Michel Lepage. According to the Chief Electoral Officer of Quebec, donations were $33792 in 2008 and then fell sharply in 2009 and 2010. Prominent supporters have included:\n\n\nThe Parti indépendantiste has been criticised for having links with neo-Nazis. For example, a neo-Nazi skinhead was the president of the executive committee for the region of Quebec and a member of the neo-Nazi group Blood & Honour is the treasurer. The Parti Indépendantiste was present at a racist protest organized at Montreal in November 2011 with other well-known neo-Nazi groups. The party has been compared to the French National Front because it recruited a fascist. An article published in the newspaper \"Le Soleil\" accused the Parti Indépendantiste of being \"authentic reactionary racist\", and another article by the same newspaper reported that a neo-Nazi was in the hierarchy of the party.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24903", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24903", "title": "Peace process", "text": "Peace process\n\nPeace process may refer to:\n"}
{"id": "2152561", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2152561", "title": "Peter Stumpp", "text": "Peter Stumpp\n\nPeter Stumpp (died 1589) (whose name is also spelled as Peter Stube, Peter Stubbe, Peter Stübbe or Peter Stumpf) was a German farmer, accused of werewolfery, witchcraft and cannibalism. He was known as 'the Werewolf of Bedburg'.\n\nThe most comprehensive source on the case is a pamphlet of 16 pages published in London in 1590, the translation of a German print of which no copies have survived. The English pamphlet, of which two copies exist (one in the British Museum and one in the Lambeth Library), was rediscovered by occultist Montague Summers in 1920. It describes Stumpp's life and alleged crimes and the trial, and includes many statements from neighbours and witnesses of the crimes. Summers reprints the entire pamphlet, including a woodcut, on pages 253 to 259 of his work \"The Werewolf\".\n\nAdditional information is provided by the diaries of Hermann von Weinsberg, a Cologne alderman, and by a number of illustrated broadsheets, which were printed in southern Germany and were probably based on the German version of the London pamphlet. The original documents seem to have been lost during the wars of the centuries that followed.\n\nContemporary reference was made to the pamphlet by Edward Fairfax in his firsthand account of alleged witch persecution of his own daughters in 1621.\n\nPeter Stumpp's name is also spelled as \"Peter Stube\", \"Peter Stub\", \"Peter Stubbe\", \"Peter Stübbe\" or \"Peter Stumpf\", and other aliases include such names as Abal Griswold, Abil Griswold, and Ubel Griswold. The name \"Stump\" or \"Stumpf\" may have been given him as a reference to the fact that his left hand had been cut off leaving only a stump, in German \"Stumpf\". \nIt was alleged that as the \"werewolf\" had its left forepaw cut off, then the same injury proved the guilt of the man. Stumpp was born at the village of Epprath near the country-town of Bedburg in the Electorate of Cologne. His actual date of birth is not known, as the local church registers were destroyed during the Thirty Years' War (1618–1648). He was a wealthy farmer of his rural community. During the 1580s he seems to have been a widower with two children; a girl called Beele (Sybil), who seems to have been older than fifteen years old, and a son of an unknown age.\n\nDuring 1589, Stumpp had one of the most lurid and famous werewolf trials of history. After being stretched on a rack, and before further torture commenced, he confessed to having practiced black magic since he was twelve years old. He claimed that the Devil had given him a magical belt or girdle, which enabled him to metamorphose into \"the likeness of a greedy, devouring wolf, strong and mighty, with eyes great and large, which in the night sparkled like fire, a mouth great and wide, with most sharp and cruel teeth, a huge body, and mighty paws.\" Removing the belt, he said, made him transform back to his human form. No such belt was ever found after his arrest.\n\nFor twenty-five years, Stumpp had allegedly been an \"insatiable bloodsucker\" who gorged on the flesh of goats, lambs, and sheep, as well as men, women, and children. Being threatened with torture he confessed to killing and eating fourteen children, two pregnant women, whose fetuses he ripped from their wombs and \"ate their hearts panting hot and raw,\" which he later described as \"dainty morsels.\" One of the fourteen children was his own son, whose brain he was reported to have devoured.\n\nNot only was Stumpp accused of being a serial murderer and cannibal, but also of having an incestuous relationship with his daughter, who was sentenced to die with him, and that he had coupled with a distant relative, which was also considered to be incestuous according to the law. In addition to this he confessed to having had intercourse with a succubus sent to him by the Devil.\n\nThe execution of Stumpp, on October 31, 1589, and of his daughter and mistress, is one of the most brutal on record: he was put to a wheel, where \"flesh was torn from his body\", in ten places, with red-hot pincers, followed by his arms and legs. Then his limbs were broken with the blunt side of an axehead to prevent him from returning from the grave, before he was beheaded and his body burned on a pyre. His daughter and mistress had already been flayed and strangled and were burned along with Stumpp's body. As a warning against similar behavior, local authorities erected a pole with the torture wheel and the figure of a wolf on it, and at the very top they placed Peter Stumpp's severed head.\n\nThere are a number of details of the text of the London pamphlet that are inconsistent with the historical facts.\n\nThe years during which Stumpp was supposed to have committed most of his crimes (1582–1589) were marked by internal warfare in the Electorate of Cologne after the abortive introduction of Protestantism by the former Archbishop Gebhard Truchsess von Waldburg. He had been assisted by Adolf, Count of Neuenahr, who was also the lord of Bedburg.\n\nStumpp was most certainly a convert to Protestantism. The war brought the invasion of armies of either side, the assaults by marauding soldiers and eventually an epidemic of the plague.\n\nWhen the Protestants were defeated during 1587, Bedburg Castle became the headquarters of Catholic mercenaries commanded by the new lord of Bedburg—Werner, Count of Salm-Reifferscheidt-Dyck, who was a staunch Catholic determined to re-establish the Roman faith.\n\nSo it is not inconceivable that the werewolf trial was but a barely concealed political trial, with the help of which the new lord of Bedburg planned to bully the Protestants of the territory back into Catholicism. If it had only been just another execution of a werewolf and a couple of witches, as occurred about this time in various parts of Germany, the attendance of members of the aristocracy—perhaps including the new Archbishop and Elector of Cologne—would be surprising. Furthermore, the trial remained a singular event.\n\nHowever, this does not mean that the charges were without basis in fact. The execution of a mere Protestant convert would have been deeply unlikely to have drawn the aristocratic attention Stumpp's trial did, and while it was unlikely for the elite to attend to any given werewolf or witch trial, the sheer scale of Stumpp's alleged crimes would have made it more visible to the public at large and the nobility.\n\nThe U.S. metal band Macabre recorded a song about Peter Stumpp, titled \"The Werewolf of Bedburg\"; it can be found on the \"Murder Metal\" album.\n\nThe German horror punk band The Other recorded a song about Peter Stumpp, titled \"Werewolf of Bedburg\"; it can be found on the \"Casket Case\" album.\n\nIn the Pine Deep Trilogy of novelist and folklorist Jonathan Maberry, Peter Stumpp is the supernatural villain Ubel Griswold. Since Griswold is actually one of Stumpp's historical aliases, Maberry decided to use the name of Ubel Griswold instead of openly telling people that the villain was the famous werewolf Peter Stumpp until later on in the third book of the series, \"Bad Moon Rising\".\n\nIn the Jim Butcher book \"Fool Moon\" there are several characters that use enchanted wolf pelt belts to transform into a wolf form, similar to the belt Peter Stump claimed to have.\n\nA reference to Peter Stumpp is also in William Peter Blatty's book, \"The Exorcist\". When Father Karras and Kinderman talk about Satanism they say \"Terrible, was this theory, Father, or fact?\" \"Well, there's William Stumpf, for example. Or Peter. I can't remember. Anyway, a German in the sixteenth century who thought he was a werewolf\".\n\nThe direct-to-video \"Big Top Scooby-Doo!\", uses a portion of Lukas Mayer's woodcut of the execution of Stumpp in 1589, though in the movie no mention of Stumpp is made. The portion used depicts a man cutting off a werewolf's left paw (supposedly Stumpp in werewolf form) and a child being attacked by a werewolf. The woodcut scene shown in the film restores the werewolf's left paw and removes the child in the second werewolf's jaws, making it appear as if the swordsman is fighting one of the werewolves while another flees.\n\nIn the \"Doctor Who\" audio drama \"Loups-Garoux\", Pieter Stubbe was in fact a werewolf. He managed to escape before he was executed and lived for another five centuries. He was defeated by the Fifth Doctor in Brazil in 2080. It is implied that he ate both the Grand Duchess Anastasia and Lord Lucan.\n\nJournalist and fiction writer J.E. Reich partially based her short story \"The Werewolves of Anspach,\" which was nominated for multiple awards, on the life of Peter Stumpp.\n\nThe story of Peter Stumpp was also told in episode 3 of the podcast \"Lore\", released on April 6, 2015. In 2017, the podcast episode was adapted into the fifth episode of the TV series adaptation of \"Lore\", where he was played by Adam Goldberg.\n\nThe case inspired Neil MacKay's novel, 'The Wolf Trial' (Glasgow: Freight Books, 2016. )\n\nPeter Stump is referenced in 'The Werewolf of Bamburg' by Oliver Potzsch. It briefly mentions his execution and crimes.\n\n"}
{"id": "4219844", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4219844", "title": "Robert V. Gentry", "text": "Robert V. Gentry\n\nRobert V. Gentry (born 1933) is an American young Earth creationist and nuclear physicist, known for his claims that radiohalos provide evidence for a young age of the Earth. He is a member of the Seventh-day Adventist Church.\n\nGentry received a master's degree in physics from the University of Florida, and then worked in the defense industry in nuclear weapons research. In 1959, he was influenced by a verse he read in the Bible while looking at polonium halos, and subsequently converted to Seventh-day Adventism. Thereafter, he entered the doctoral program at Georgia Institute of Technology, but left when he was refused permission to work on the age of the Earth for his dissertation.\n\nBy this time he was convinced that radiohalos might be the key to determining the age of the Earth, and might be capable of vindicating flood geology. He continued to work on the subject at home using a small microscope and attempted to publish his results (minus his creationist conclusions) in one or more peer reviewed scientific journals. In 1969, while Gentry was affiliated with an Adventist college in Maryland, Oak Ridge National Laboratory invited him to use their facilities, as a guest scientist in the hope that his work on radiohalos might lead to discovering super-heavy elements. This relationship was terminated as a result of his participation in \"McLean v. Arkansas\".\n\nGentry has had strong disagreements with other creationists over some details of flood geology. A number of creationists, including fellow Seventh-day Adventists, have criticised his work.\n\nIn the late 1970s, Gentry challenged the scientific community to synthesize \"a hand-sized specimen of a typical biotite-bearing granite\" as a test of his claims. The scientific response was dismissive. Geologist G. Brent Dalrymple stated: \"As far as I am concerned, Gentry's challenge is silly. … He has proposed an absurd and inconclusive experiment to test a perfectly ridiculous and unscientific hypothesis that ignores virtually the entire body of geological knowledge.\"\n\nIn 1981, Gentry was a defense witness in the \"McLean v. Arkansas\" case over the constitutional validity of Act 590 that mandated that \"creation science\" be given equal time in public schools with evolution. Act 590 was ruled to be unconstitutional (a verdict that was upheld by the Supreme Court in \"Edwards v. Aguillard\").\n\nGentry has devised his own creationist cosmology and filed a lawsuit in 2001 against Los Alamos National Laboratory and Cornell University after personnel deleted ten of his papers about his cosmology from the public preprint server arXiv. On 23 March 2004, Gentry's lawsuit against arXiv was dismissed by a Tennessee court on the grounds that it lacked territorial jurisdiction, as neither defendant in the case was considered to have a significant presence in the state of Tennessee.\n\nHis self-published book \"Creation's Tiny Mystery\" was reviewed by geologist Gregg Wilkerson, who said that it has several logical flaws and concluded that \"the book is a source of much misinformation about current geologic thinking and confuses fact with interpretation.\" Wilkerson also noted that the book contains considerable autobiographical material and he observed that \"[i]n general I don't think educators will find it's worth their time to tread through this creationist's whining.\" This criticism of Gentry's \"frequent whining about discrimination\" has also been made by fellow creationists, who concluded that \"his scientific snubs resulted more from his own abrasive style than from his peculiar ideas\", according to critic Ronald L. Numbers, a historian of science.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48947752", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48947752", "title": "Sigurdur Thordarson", "text": "Sigurdur Thordarson\n\nSigurdur Thordarson (Sigurður Ingi Þórðarson) was born in 1992 in Reykjavík. He is known for his involvement with the whistleblowing organization WikiLeaks, as well as his interactions with the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI). In 2010 he was arrested for stealing and leaking classified information about the bank structure in Iceland. He obtained the information from a lawyer that aided wealthy people in tax evasion, whose name was Gunnar Gunnarsson. Gunnar worked for an investment firm called Milestone ehf. Gunnar obtained Sigurdur's services to set up computer systems and delete data. After Sigurdur was arrested he was introduced to Julian Assange, the editor and founder of WikiLeaks. Sigurdur started his time there in early 2010, and participated in preparing many of WikiLeaks's biggest leaks. After a year in WikiLeaks service Sigurdur was suspected of embezzling funds from the WikiLeaks online store. WikiLeaks filed criminal charges against Sigurdur with the Metropolitan Police of Iceland, who investigated the case and later dropped it due to lack of evidence. Sigurdur later plead guilty to the embezzlement along with other economic crimes, in 2013. Sigurdur was ordered to pay the victims 15 million ISK (roughly $115,000) \n\nSigurdur began leaking information about the Icelandic banking system to the media in late 2009. He leaked information about a number of individuals in the Icelandic banking system, information that showed that individuals were committing illegal acts in relation to banking. One of the leaks Sigurdur leaked was regarding a case called \"Vafningsmalid.\" That case involved powerful political persons such as Bjarni Benediktsson during his time as an MP. Bjarni reported that the case was only a political smear campaign. The information published by local news media obtained from Sigurdur also showed that one of Iceland's biggest football stars, Eiður Guðjohnsen, was in deep debt and almost bankrupt. After the information was published, Eiður sued the local newspaper \"DV\" for publishing this information. \"DV\" lost the case in a lower court, but won an appeal to the Supreme Court of Iceland, stating that the information was a matter for the public. Amongst other information that Sigurdur admitted to have leaked in an interview with the \"Rolling Stone\" magazine was information about local business men Karl Wernersson. He was the owner of the Milestone ehf that was the investment company Sigurdur stole most of the information from. Other names in the documents leaked by Sigurdur included information about Birkir Kristinsson, who was recently convicted of economic crimes while working for Glitnir bank. Some speculate that information from Sigurdur was used as evidence in that case, Sigurdur also leaked a classified report about one of the bigger aluminum plants in Iceland. The report stated that the plant was paying 1/4 of what other aluminum plants in the world are paying for electricity. Other information leaked by Sigurdur contained information about other local business men such as Gunnar Gunnarsson, who also has been reported to assist football star Cristiano Ronaldo in tax affairs. In 2013 Sigurdur got in an argument with Birgitta Jónsdóttir on Twitter over the release of the loanbooks of the Glitnir Bank. Sigurdur argued that she had no involvement, but he later stated that he had given her the files years ago. In 2009 Sigurdur arrived at the offices of the Special Prosecutor, who investigated the bank collapse in Iceland in 2008. Sigurdur reportedly gave them all the information he had on Milestone and other local business men, however instead of using some of the information obtained from Sigurdur in investigation the investigators decided to sell the information. The case against the two police officers was later dismissed, and it has been reported that the investigators made roughly 30 Million ISK ($250.000) from the documents. In January 2010 Sigurdur was arrested on suspicion of stealing classified information, that case never made it to the court system and Sigurdur always denied his involvement until the \"Rolling Stone\" interview. Sigurdur was only seventeen years old when he was arrested for leaking the information.\n\nKristinn Hrafnsson, spokesperson for WikiLeaks, claimed that Sigurdur Thordarson had no involvement with the whistleblowing organization and called Sigurdur a \"troubled young teen that was a pathological liar and should be institutionalized\", although there are many sources that claim that Hrafnsson wasn’t being truthful. In 2013 the movie The Fifth Estate was released featuring a character based on Sigurdur, he was played by Jamie Blackley, Sigurdur is also mentioned in Domsheitberg's book, during his time with WikiLeaks he reportedly used the handles PenguinX, Singi201 and \"Q\". Sigurdur also reportedly saw to it that WikiLeaks came through partially on its promise to give $50.000 to the Chelsea Manning defense team. Sigurdur managed to get 20% ($10.000) of the funds to Manning's defense team, and was in contact with David Coombs, attorney for Manning, WikiLeaks never donated the rest they had promised. It is unclear what Sigurdur did at WikiLeaks. Many people who are still in the inner circle of WikiLeaks claim that Sigurdur role was minor and that he participated at a very low level in some projects WikiLeaks had, while other sources close to WikiLeaks circle state that his involvement was much greater. One of these people is Tangerine Bolen, the founder of Revolution Truth and a close friend to film maker Michael Moore. Tangerine said in an interview with RT Russia Today that although Sigurdur lied often to her, WikiLeaks is understating his involvement, stating that Sigurdur was her \"handle\" at WikiLeaks . Many other reports state that Sigurdur was a part of WikiLeaks inner circle. One example of that is that if looked at very closely in this video Sigurdur Thordarson's name could be seen on the MasterCard Gold card that Assange cuts in the video. On many occasions during interviews with Sigurdur, Kristinn Hrafnsson has almost always says that Sigurdur is a pathological liar and should not be trusted. Kristinn has repeatedly called media outlets such as \"Reykjavik Grapevine\", \"Rolling Stone\", BBC News and \"Slate\" fools for believing the \"hype\". According to David Kushner, the reporter who took the \"Rolling Stone\" interview with Sigurdur, Sigurdur provided \"Rolling Stone\" with over 1 terabyte of data (1000 gigabytes ) to the paper about WikiLeaks, and said that either Sigurdur was the real deal or this was the biggest and most elaborate lie in the digital age. Also number of photos related to articlesabout the extradition hearings in London July 2011, show Sigurdur escorting Julian to the court house as well as a video where Sigurdur holds the press from Julian while he enters a cab \n\nIn August 2011, Sigurdur contacted the United States Embassy in Reykjavik and claimed he had information about an ongoing criminal investigation in the United States, and requested a meeting. The day after Sigurdur was summoned to the embassy, where he gave diplomatic staff official documents showing that Sigurdur was who he claimed he was. The day after the meeting with the embassy official the FBI sent a private jet with eight federal agents and a prosecutor to question Sigurdur. The FBI gave Icelandic authorities notice that they were questioning Sigurdur in relation to an co-investigation that Anonymous and LulzSec were about to infiltrate Icelandic government systems. After the authorities found out Sigurdur was being questioned about WikiLeaks, the FBI was asked to leave Iceland. The FBI left the country a few days later but took Sigurdur with them to Denmark where questioning continued. Sigurdur was subsequently allowed to return to Iceland. In 2012 Sigurdur met with the federal agents on a number of occasions, and was flown to Copenhagen where Sigurdur was provided a room in a luxury hotel. Sigurdur was allowed to return to Iceland after every meeting. Sigurdur met with the FBI again in Washington D.C. and spent a couple of days with them there. The final meeting that Sigurdur said took place with the FBI was during a course Sigurdur was enrolled in at Aarhus in Denmark, teaching IT Security. Sigurdur met with the agents there and handed over several hard drives. it is reported that Sigurdur got $5,000 for his assistance and that he was on the FBI's payroll. In 2013 Sigurdur was also summoned to the General Committee of the Icelandic Parliament after days of being discussed in the Parliament. There Sigurdur was questioned about his involvement in the FBI case. The then-Minister of the Interior Ögmundur Jónasson said in Parliament that Sigurdur was young and the FBI meant him to be a \"spy\" within the WikiLeaks organization. At the parliament hearing Sigurdur arrived with two bodyguards.\n\nIn January 2011 it was revealed in Icelandic media that a computer had been found within closed sections of the Parliament. According to reports it was alleged that WikiLeaks was suspected of placing the computer inside the Parliament. Bjarni Benediktsson the MP Sigurdur leaked information about comments found on the computer \n\nSigurdur was questioned about his involvement in this case, but has always denied any involvement in it. \"Morgunblaðið\", Iceland's largest newspaper published on the front page on January 31, 2011 that a local reporter for the paper \"DV\" was suspected of obtaining the information from Sigurdur. The reporter was said to be under investigation for receiving the information from Sigurdur and manipulating Sigurdur into leaking the information and placing the computer inside Parliament. The reporter sued the newspaper for libel and won the case. \"Morgunblaðið\" withdrew the report and issued an apology to the reporter on December 7. There was a report in the Icelandic media that stated that specialists were now checking whether parliament phones were spied on by WikiLeaks. \"Wired\" published chat logs that indicated such. This is believed to support the claim that Sigurdur is involved with the spy computer somehow. Birgitta Jónsdóttir issued a statement stating that she had never heard of any recordings.\n\nThe case is still under investigation with no official suspects.\n\nDuring his time at WikiLeaks it has also been reported that Sigurdur ordered attacks on Icelandic governmental infrastructures such as the servers hosting the Ministry's websites www.stjornarradid.is and www.landsnet.is. Those DDoS attacks were successful for a few hours. This was all done after an Icelandic business man that owns an Icelandic data center asked Sigurdur to do so. It has also been reported that Sigurdur ordered Hector Monsegur (Sabu) and his team to attack Icelandic State Police servers. This all happened during Sabu's time as an FBI informant. It is reported that Sigurdur obtained the unpublished version of a report about the surveillance unit at the U.S Embassy in Reykjavik. It has also been reported that Sigurdur Thordarson was WikiLeaks's connection to the hacker world. Many reports have indicated that persons part of Anonymous and LulzSec reported to Sigurdur. That was covered partially in the book \"We are Anonymous\". Reports state that Sigurdur obtained many leaks through this method that WikiLeaks later published, such as The Kissinger cables and The Syria Files.It is unknown how WikiLeaks or Sigurdur obtained the information, though chat logs between Sigurdur and Hector Monsegur a.k.a. Sabu have surfaced. Some people also speculate whether the attack on the website of the Central Intelligence Agency was ordered by Sigurdur as a test to see whether \"Sabu\" had really as good skills and people as he claimed, it is believed that communications between \"Sabu\" and Sigurdur escalated after the CIA attack,\n\nIn November 2013 Sigurdur went to Norway to speak about his journey for the organization YATA. This is the first and only known time that Sigurdur has spoken about his story in public, except in media interviews.\n\nIn 2012 Sigurdur was questioned about sexual misconduct, accused of purchasing sex from a seventeen year old teenager. At the time Sigurdur was 18 years old. Sigurdur denied the charges but was found guilty in late 2013 and received 8 months in prison.\n\nIn 2012 WikiLeaks filed criminal charges against Sigurdur for embezzlement. Sigurdur denied the charges and the case was later dismissed. He was later arrested in the summer of 2013 on charges of financial fraud. At that time the WikiLeaks case was brought back up, and Sigurdur was indicted on charges of embezzlement and financial fraud. In 2014 Sigurdur was ordered to pay WikiLeaks 7 million ISK (roughly $55,000) as well as being sentenced to prison for 2 years for embezzlement and financial fraud. Sigurdur plead guilty to all counts. In those cases Sigurdur was ordered to pay the victims 15 million ISK (roughly $115.000), Sigurdur received a two-year prison sentence in those cases.\n\nIn 2012 Sigurdur was arrested for trying to blackmail a large Icelandic candy factory, it then turned out that Sigurdur had no involvement in that scheme at all and the case was later dismissed.\n\nIn January 2014 Sigurdur was arrested on charges of sex crimes. He was believed to be a flight risk and possibly sabotaging the investigation and therefore placed in solitary confinement for six weeks. An indictment was later issued and Sigurdur was charged with purchasing sex from a minor and purchasing sex. Initially 11 charges were filed but only nine made it to an indictment. Five of the charges were purchasing sex from a minor and four were purchasing sex from an adult. The victims ranged from the age of 15-20, all male, during which Sigurdur was 18-21. Sigurdur plead guilty to all counts and received 3 years for that,\n\nSigurdur negotiated the damages to his victims and paid 8.6 million ISK (roughly $66,000) \n\nSigurdur started to serve his sentence of 6 years in 2014. He is incarcerated in Litla-Hraun, Iceland's only maximum security prison, which is located 30 minutes outside of Reykjavik.\n\nSigurdur has been ordered to pay roughly 31 millions ISK (roughly $236,000) in total damages. According to reports the sum has been paid.\n"}
{"id": "1132943", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1132943", "title": "Sons of Confederate Veterans", "text": "Sons of Confederate Veterans\n\nThe Sons of Confederate Veterans (SCV) is an American non-profit and charitable organization of male descendants of Confederate veterans headquartered at the Elm Springs in Columbia, Tennessee. It is mostly known for erecting and maintaining American Civil War memorials and graves, observing Confederate Memorial Day, and encouraging Southern historical study. More recently, activists have placed new emphasis on the controversial right to display Confederate symbols in public. The organization was founded on July 1, 1896, at the City Auditorium (present-day Virginia Commonwealth University (VCU) Cary Street Gym) in Richmond, Virginia, by R. E. Lee Camp, No. 1, Confederate Veterans.\n\nThe objects and purpose of the Sons of Confederate Veterans is \"to encourage the preservation of history, perpetuate the hallowed memories of brave men, to assist in the observance of Confederate Memorial Day, to aid and support all members, and to perpetuate the record of the services of every Southern soldier\".\n\nMale descendants of those who served in the Confederate armed forces, or one of the States thereof, to the end of the war, died in prison or while in actual service, were killed in battle, or were honorably retired or discharged are eligible for membership. Membership can be obtained through either lineal or collateral family lines. Kinship to a veteran must be documented genealogically. The minimum age for full membership is 12 years, but there is no minimum for Cadet membership.\n\nForty delegates from 24 camps and societies from the various Southern states were called by the R. E. Lee Camp, No. 1, Confederate Veterans (also known as United Confederate Veterans), of Richmond, Virginia, to meet on June 30 and July 1, 1896, at the City Auditorium (present-day Virginia Commonwealth University (VCU) Cary Street Gym), for the purpose of forming a ″national organization, adopting a constitution similar in every respect to that governing the United Confederate Veterans, and permanently organized under the name United Sons of Confederate Veterans″ (USCV). The preamble to the United Sons of Confederate Veterans Constitution reads in part: ″To encourage the preservation of history, perpetuate the hallowed memories of brave men, to assist in the observance of Memorial Day, and to perpetuate the record of the services of every Southern soldier″. Its aims, objects, and purposes are ″not to create or foster, in any manner, any feeling against the North, but to hand down to posterity the story of the glory of the men who wore the gray″. On July 1, the delegates elected Mr. J. E. B. Stuart, of Newport News, Virginia, son of the famous cavalry leader, commander-in-chief of the United Sons of Confederate Veterans.\n\nIn the 1990s, disagreements over the purpose of the organization emerged within the Sons of Confederate Veterans. At issue was an alleged shift in the Sons of Confederate Veterans's mission from \"maintaining gravestones, erecting monuments and studying Civil War history\" to more issue-centric concerns. The Sons of Confederate Veterans's new concerns included \"fight[ing] for the right to display Confederate symbols everywhere from schools to statehouses\". The more \"activist\" members of the Sons of Confederate Veterans gained electoral support and were increasingly elected to its leadership positions. Members of the more traditionalist camp alleged that the League of the South had influenced their organization's new direction. One ally of the activist wing claimed that thousands of Sons of Confederate Veterans members are also League of the South members. News reports state that the activists advocate \"picketing, aggressive lobbying, issue campaigning and lawsuits\" in favor of what they term \"heritage defense\" to prevent \"heritage violations\". The Sons of Confederate Veterans defines those as \"any attack upon our Confederate Heritage, or the flags, monuments, and symbols which represent it\".\n\nIn 2002, Sons of Confederate Veterans' dissidents formed a new organization, Save the Sons of Confederate Veterans (SSCV), composed of members and former members of SCV. According to Save the Sons of Confederate Veterans co-founder Walter Charles Hilderman, \"about a hundred or so individuals and groups identified themselves on the Save the Sons of Confederate Veterans web site as supporting Save the SCV\" not long after the group was founded, though the current membership numbers for the Save the Sons of Confederate Veterans are not available. Boyd Cathey reported in the \"Southern Mercury\" that most of the dissension had ended by 2003, and the majority of the members of the Sons of Confederate Veterans agreed with the heritage preservation activities espoused by the new Sons of Confederate Veterans leadership. One of the main figures in that new Sons of Confederate Veterans leadership, South Carolina politician and investment advisor Ron Wilson, served as commander-in-chief from 2002 to 2004. In 2012, he was sentenced to prison for running a Ponzi scheme as part of his investment business; ironically, among those he defrauded were members of the Sons of Confederate Veterans.\n\nIn early 2005, the Sons of Confederate Veterans General Executive Council sued to expel Commander-in-Chief Dennis Sweeney from office. The court initially granted the council temporary control of the organization, but its final decision returned power to Sweeney. Thirteen of the twenty-five council members were expelled from the council shortly after Sweeney regained control. Nine of the council members expelled were former commanders-in-chief, a status that heretofore had come with a life membership on the council. In February, Cathey wrote in the \"Southern Mercury\" that most of the Sons of Confederate Veterans's members had united against the War on Southern Culture. By the SCV's summer 2005 convention, activists firmly controlled the council. They severed much of the Sons of Confederate Veterans' long-standing relationship with the more traditionalist Military Order of the Stars and Bars (MOSB). The MOSB, founded in 1938, had been closely involved with the Sons of Confederate Veterans, sharing its headquarters since 1992 and co-publishing \"Southern Mercury\". The Military Order of the Stars and Bars Commander General, Daniel Jones, citing \"the continuing political turmoil within the SCV\", moved the Military Order of the Stars and Bars out of the shared quarters, ended the joint magazine publishing enterprise, and separated the two organizations' finances. In 2006, for the first time, the two organizations held separate conventions.\n\nIn 2011, the Mississippi Division, Sons of Confederate Veterans, launched a campaign to honor Confederate Lieutenant-General Nathan B. Forrest with a specialty license plate. The same year, the organization awarded Arizona Sheriff Joe Arpaio its \"Law and Order\" award. In 2013, the State of Texas denied a request for a Confederate Battle Flag specialty license plate, a decision later upheld in State court. That state court decision was later overturned in Federal court, and the matter was ultimately heard by the U.S. Supreme Court in \"Walker v. Texas Division, Sons of Confederate Veterans\", which held that Texas was allowed to deny the request for a specialty license plate featuring the group's logo. In 2014, the State of Georgia approved a battle flag specialty license plate.\n\nThe Virginia General Assembly had approved a specialty license plate for the Sons of Confederate Veterans in 1999, but lawmakers forbade the group from displaying the Confederate insignia. The organization sued for the right to display the Confederate Battle Flag on the license plate, and the 4th Circuit Court of Appeals eventually upheld the organization's First Amendment rights. Specialty plates containing a small Confederate Battle Flag had been offered in Virginia ever since a Federal judge issued a 2001 injunction ruling that banning them would be discriminating against the Sons of Confederate Veterans and limiting their First Amendment right to free speech. In a highly controversial move, Virginia Governor Terry McAuliffe, a Democrat, announced that the Commonwealth intended to phase out the state-sponsored specialty license plate six days after a racially charged shooting at Emanuel AME Church in Charleston, South Carolina ignited protests against the display of the Confederate Battle Flag and other Confederate symbols. More than 1,600 Virginians had the license plates displaying the confederate flag on their vehicles, and the SOCV challenged the governor's authority to recall the license plates, citing the 2001 injunction, and in a letter addressed to Virginia DMV Commissioner Richard Holcomb and forwarded to the governor, Sons of Confederate Veterans Commander Tracy Clary wrote: \"I am aware of no order from the 4th Circuit vacating our right to receive our plates from the Virginia Department of Motor Vehicles and on behalf of ALL the citizens of the Commonwealth I insist that you follow the rule of Law.\" But in August 2015 the Federal judge dissolved the 2001 injunction, referencing the U.S. Supreme Court ruling in the Texas case. Despite the ruling, hundreds of members of the Sons of Confedertate Veterans who had the specialty plates refused to remove them from their vehicles and exchange them for new plates despite the fact that the specialty plates displaying the Confederate insignia were no longer valid after October 4, 2015, and it is a class 2 misdemeanor to drive with a cancelled license plate in Virginia.\nThe Jefferson Davis Highway marker in Vancouver, Washington, was removed from its prominent location in the city in the late 1990s, to an outcry from the local Northwest Chapter of Sons of Confederate Veterans. They succeeded in having the granite marker stone placed outside the Clark County Historical Museum and a petition for its inclusion on the county's historical register was secured in 2002. Vancouver city officials continued to pressure for the removal of the stone from any public property so in 2007, the local chapter of Sons of Confederate Veterans purchased land outside nearby Ridgefield, Washington. They placed the marker stone facing busy Interstate 5 with large Confederate flags surrounding it on prominent display. This brought outcries but little could be done by either the nearby town of Ridgefield or the county, as it was located on private property; the prominent location and events in other parts of the nation still make this park the local focus of strong emotions, especially in the aftermath of the white nationalist Unite the Right rally in August 2017. The vandalism of the stones on August 17, 2017, raised concern for the park managed by SVC, one marker was covered in black tar or paint and the other was covered in red. In October 2017, the city of Ridgefield formally asked the county historical society to remove the marker from the register and the vote was unanimous to do so, 6–0.\n\nThe organization took a more active approach after both the election of President Donald Trump in 2017, and moves by some municipalities to remove Confederate monuments and flags from public places because of their racist symbolism and historical connection to white supremacy movements. The organization began installing large Confederate battle \"mega flags\" on private property overlooking major highways, a project they called \"Flags Across the Carolinas\". In January 2018 the North Carolina chapter vowed to install one flag in every county. Anti-racist activists, such as Roland Stanton, criticized the project: Stanton, president of the Durham branch of the North Carolina National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP), said the Confederate flag: \"is a symbol of oppression, genocide and slavery\". Stanton described the project as \"abominable and shameful\" while acknowledging that the mega flag project activities were protected by the First Amendment.\n\nIn 1997, a Sons of Confederate Veterans motorcycle organization was formed by Maryland attorney Reuben Hamby. According to the group's official history, the \"SCV Mechanized Cavalry\" are members of the Sons of Confederate Veterans who ride motorcycles. Like the parent group, their by-laws forbid racism and their purpose is the preservation of the history of the Civil War, honoring their ancestors who took part.\n\nThe Sons of Confederate Veterans also sponsors the Bonnie Blue Society for authors of southern literature dealing with the veterans of the Confederate States of America. Thus, the Bonnie Blue Society is a recognition and award for persons who have perpetuated the memory of the Confederate soldier or sailor in literary form. Accepted members of the literary society have researched, written and published a book or article on the Confederacy for the general public. A copy of the book or article will be sent to the permanent collection of the Major General William David McCain Library at the general headquarters of the Sons of Confederate Veterans. The subject matter of the written items presented to the Bonnie Blue Society should be written according to the heritage goals of the SOCV by being neither anti-Confederate nor racist. The society uses a version of the Confederacy's Bonnie Blue Flag as their official membership insignia. This banner was an early, although unofficial, flag of the Confederate States, consisting of a single white star on a dark blue field.\n\nThe Sons of Confederate Veterans has a longstanding friendly relationship with the Sons of Union Veterans of the Civil War (SUVCW). The Sons of Union Veterans of the Civil War has referred to the SCOV as \"our Confederate cousins\", and has conducted a number of joint meetings and joint resolutions with the Sons of Confederate Veterans. The commander-in-chief of the Sons of Union Veterans of the Civil War has also attended the SOCV annual reunion on numerous occasions, including in 1995, 1996, 1997, and 2005. The Sons of Union Veterans of the Civil War cooperates with the Sons of Confederate Veterans in preserving American Civil War graves, monuments, and markers.\n\nThe General Headquarters, Sons of Confederate Veterans, operates the National Confederate Museum at the Elm Springs in Columbia, Tennessee, and the Nathan Bedford Forrest Boyhood Home in Chapel Hill.\n\nNotable members of the Sons of Confederate Veterans have included:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1060627", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1060627", "title": "State Security Administration", "text": "State Security Administration\n\nThe State Security Service (SDB or SDS), more commonly known by its original name as the State Security Administration (UDBA or UDSA), was the secret police organization of Yugoslavia. Best known at all times simply by the acronym UDBA, in its latter decades it was composed of six semi-independent secret police organizations—one for each of the six Yugoslav federal republics—coordinated by the central federal office.\n\nAlthough it operated with more restraint than other secret police agencies in the communist dictatorships of Eastern Europe, the UDBA was nonetheless a feared tool of control. It is alleged that the UDBA was responsible for the \"eliminations\" of dozens of enemies of the state within Yugoslavia and internationally (estimates about 200 assassinations and kidnappings). Eliminations vary from those of World War II Ustaše Croat leaders Ante Pavelić and Vjekoslav Luburić (in Spain and Argentina), to Croatian emigrant writer Bruno Bušić and Serbian emigrant writer Dragiša Kašiković.\n\nWith the breakup of Yugoslavia, the breakaway republics went on to form their own secret police agencies, while the State Security Service of the FR Yugoslavia kept its UDBA-era name.\n\nUDBA formed a major part of the Yugoslav intelligence services from 1946-1991, and was primarily responsible for internal state security. After 1946 the UDB underwent numerous security and intelligence changes due to topical issues at that time, including: fighting gangs; protection of the economy; Cominform/Informbiro; and bureaucratic aspirations. In 1945 and 1946, for instance, the UDB was organized into districts. In 1950, when the administrative-territorial units were abolished as authorities, the UDB was reorganized again. During this period the intelligence and security activities concentrated less on intelligence and more on internal security. There was an emphasis on collectivism, brotherhood, social harmony, loyalty, and tolerance towards those with different views. Deviation from this set of values became an immediate issue for security services.\n\nLater, the use of force was mitigated and when the process of \"decentralization of people's power\" began, intelligence and security services underwent further reorganization in order to decentralise power and increase effectiveness. The Act on Internal Affairs and the Decree on Organization of State Internal Affairs Secretariat regulated the intelligence security authority as the prerogative of the State Security Directorate within the Ministry of the Interior. The following reorganization addressed issues relating to the competence of the federation (state security, cross-border traffic, foreign citizens, passports, introduction and dissemination of foreign press, and federal citizenship).\n\nIntelligence and security activity was organized in the following manner:\n\n\nFrom 1963–1974, security intelligence services dealt with a series of domestic and foreign political events. At home, there were political confrontation both before and after the Brioni Plenum (1966), liberal flareups and massive leftist student demonstrations in Belgrade in 1968, \"Hrvatsko proljeće\" (Croatian Spring) or \"MASPOK\" (mass movement) in Croatia in 1971, a nationalist incursion of the Bugojno group at Raduša (1972), and a revival of nationalism in Yugoslav republics. The most significant event abroad was the invasion of the Warsaw Pact troops into Czechoslovakia in 1968.\n\nThese were the circumstances at the time the first act on internal affairs of the individual republics was adopted in 1967. According to this act, internal affairs were handled directly by the municipal administrative bodies and the secretariats of internal affairs of each republic or by their provincial bodies. This was the first time since 1945 that republics gained control and greater influence over their individual security organs and intelligence security services.\n\nThe State Security Service (SDB) was defined by law as a professional service within the Republic Secretariat of Internal Affairs (RSUP). Naturally, most of its competence remained within federal institutions, as prescribed by the Act on Handling Internal Affairs Under Competence of Federal Administrative Bodies (1971), which determined that the federal secretariat of internal affairs coordinate the work of the SDB in the republics and provinces. Further steps were taken with the transformation of state administration, adoption of the Federal Act on State Administration (1978), and the Republic Act (1978). The newly adopted act on internal affairs tasked the Republic Secretariat of Internal Affairs (RSUP) with state security issues, which then became RSUP issues and were no longer given special handling \"at the RSUP\". This resolution remained in force until the 1991 modifications of the act on internal affairs.\n\nThe role of intelligence and security changed after 1986, when a different mentality reigned within the Party and the processes of democratization were initiated. Intelligence security agencies came under attack, and many people started publicly writing about and criticizing the SDB. There were no more taboo subjects. The party organization was abolished in the SDB and the first attempts to introduce parliamentary control began.\n\nThe appointment of a commission to monitor the work was one of the most absurd decisions made by the country's intelligence security services during the era of \"social democracy\", since SDB activity was regulated by federal legislation and regulations published in the secret Official Gazettes. Neither the commission members nor its president had access to these Acts. It was difficult to evaluate information, since the commission had no investigative powers or capability to verify information. The head of the service was tasked simply to deliver requested information, even classified, to the commission. The SDB was also still receiving tasks from the Party, although the supervising commission lacked the powers to control those tasks. The above-mentioned events undermined the unity of the SDB, which formulated its own, unpublished regulations (sub-legal acts, ordinances, etc.). This made any protest about violation of rights impossible, as the regulations were inaccessible to the public.\n\nThe first democratic multi party elections in 1990, which enhanced the process of democratization, reverberated within the Federal Secretariat of Internal Affairs (SSUP) and Federal State Security Service (SSDB), which were fighting to maintain control over the individual SDBs in the republics. The latter became increasingly disunited; it was still legally connected to the federal bodies, but was becoming aware of the fact that it operated and worked in their particular republic. Some professional cadres, especially those in the \"domestic field\" (dealing with the \"bourgeois right wing\", clericalists, and student movements), began leaving the service. Conflict was increasing, and SDB archives were being systematically destroyed. In its search for new roles, the SDBs also began to limit information they were sending to the SSDB. It ultimately restricted its information to foreign intelligence services.\n\nAlong with the weakening of the SSDB position, attempts were made by the Yugoslav People's Army Security Service or KOS to strengthen its own strongholds in the different republics and in the individual SDBs. The attempts failed because they depended upon cadres of other nationalities still employed in the SDBs but who had no access to data bases and had no decision-making power due to their \"Yugoslav\" orientation.\n\nRecently released files contain information on 1 million citizens of the Socialist Republic of Slovenia and other former Yugoslav republics, whose files the UDBA in Slovenia kept records. In 2003 and 2010, it was to possible to see the names of the UDBA agents in Slovenia, some of whom are still active in the Slovenian Military and the Ministry of Interior, at the website udba.net. The government of Slovenia promptly demanded the removal of pages from the website, so they are currently not accessible.\n\n"}
{"id": "1017074", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1017074", "title": "The Frankenfood Myth", "text": "The Frankenfood Myth\n\nThe Frankenfood Myth: How Protest and Politics Threaten the Biotech Revolution is a book written by Hoover Institution research fellow Henry I. Miller and political scientist Gregory Conko and published by Praeger Publishers published in 2004. In it Conko argues against over-regulation of genetically modified food and it features a foreword by Nobel Peace Prize-winner Norman Ernest Borlaug.\n\nIn an interview, Conko described \"Frankenfood Myth\" as follows:\n\nA \"Barron's\" reviewer wrote:\n\n"}
{"id": "2257545", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257545", "title": "United National Liberation Front", "text": "United National Liberation Front\n\nThe United National Liberation Front (UNLF), also known as the United National Liberation Front of Manipur, is an insurgent group active in the state of Manipur in the Northeast India which aims at establishing a sovereign and socialist Manipur.\n\nThe United Nation Liberation Front's movement manifested as a result of several similar movements of the same political agenda. The outfit was founded on 24 November 1964 with the following key personalities as its central committee members:\n\n\nThe National Investigation Agency (NIA), in September 2012, acknowledged that \"the activities carried out by the United National Liberation Front (UNLF) are for bringing sovereignty in the state of Manipur.\" The UNLF has viewed the statement as \"a big political victory.\"\n\nThe UNLF chairperson, R. K. Meghan \"alias\" Sanayaima, has been charged for \"waging war\" against India by the NIA, but the UNLF leader has voiced that the UNLF does not view India or its army as enemies, and \"the UNLF only resist the Indian armed forces stationed in Manipur and to resist those people who engaged in colonial repression.\"\n\nSanayaima believes that Manipur is \"under martial law,\" and has questioned the character and worthiness of the elections that had been held in Manipur. He further believes that \"the most democratic means to resolve conflict is plebiscite.\"\n\nThe UNLF is one of the oldest insurgent organisation in the Northeast India. E. N. Rammohan, the former Director General of the Border Security Force, once wrote, \"Of the five major (Imphal) valley underground groups, the UNLF's ideology is by and large intact. The senior leadership is well educated and has good organisational control.\"\n\nManipur People's Army was formed on 9 February 1987 as an Army Wing of UNLF. In 1991, the UNLF picked up arms, and its first armed action against IOF carried on 15 December of 1991 at Lamdan on a CRPF Convoy. In 2005, the strength of the MPA was estimated to about 2,000 armed cadres. According to the UNLF, by 2005, the UNLF was engaged in battle against about 50,000 armed personnel from the Indian Army, that are deployed against the organisation in the forest regions of Manipur. The cadres of the group are drawn largely from the Meiteis.\n\nThe territory inhabited by the Nagas, consisting of four districts of Manipur, is the operating ground of Naga groups such as the NSCNs, who are predominantly Christian. The Imphal valley, consisting of four districts, is the operating ground of Meiteis groups such as PLA and PREPAK, who predominantly follow Vaishnav Hinduism.\n\nThe UNLF is known to be heavily involved with Extortion, Arms Trading, and Income Generating Projects to finance their armed movements. They have several organized training camps within the northeast sector of India and the neighbouring countries of Myanmar and Bangladesh. Ningtam Meira is the primary media outlet they use to make publications.\n\nThe UNLF had put forward four condiciones sine quibus non before the government of India if it is willing to initiate dialogue and ink a peace accord with the organisation, which are:\n\nOn 4 December 2010, Sanayaima was produced by the NIA, who claimed to have arrested Sanayaima from Motihari in Bihar; while, Sanayaima has proclaimed that he was abducted by the Bangladeshi agencies on 29 September 2010 and \"handed over\" to the agencies of India. Sanayaima has been booked by the NIA for \"waging war against the Indian Union under section 120 (B) IPC, 121, 121 (A), 122 IPC and 16, 17, 18, 18 (A), 18 (B) & 20 Unlawful Activities Prevention Act, 1967 as amended in 2008.\" After the arrest, he said that \"in a multi-community region, the idea of peace cannot be achieved without considering the collateral damages of the secondary conflict that emerges out of the meaningless peace process.\"\nDrawing inspiration from the \"charged political atmosphere\" during the \"Naxalbari uprising\", he had dropped out of the higher studies at the Jadavpur University in Kolkata, and \"picked up a gun and vanished into the forest\" about 4 decades ago; and had remained underground since then.\n\nCivil rights activist Babloo Loitongbom, said that \"there was an allegation that certain members of the UNLF had raped 20 women. We formed a multi-ethnic fact finding team to go to the place. Unfortunately, we were not allowed to go inside the camp, we were not given any medical evidence.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "567453", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=567453", "title": "United States Border Patrol", "text": "United States Border Patrol\n\nThe United States Border Patrol (USBP) is an American federal law enforcement agency whose mission is to detect and prevent illegal aliens, terrorists and terrorist weapons from entering the United States, and prevent illegal trafficking of people and contraband. It is the mobile, uniformed law enforcement arm of U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP), a component of the United States Department of Homeland Security (DHS).\n\nWith 19,887 agents, the Border Patrol is one of the largest law enforcement agencies in the United States. For fiscal year 2017, Congress enacted a budget of $3,805,253,000 for the Border Patrol.\n\nThe current chief of the Border Patrol is Carla Provost.\n\nMounted watchmen of the United States Department of Commerce and Labor patrolled the border in an effort to prevent illegal crossings as early as 1904, but their efforts were irregular and undertaken only when resources permitted. The inspectors, usually called \"mounted guards\", operated out of El Paso, Texas. Though they never totaled more than 75, they patrolled as far west as California trying to restrict the flow of illegal Chinese immigration.\n\nIn March 1917, Congress authorized a separate group of mounted guards, often referred to as \"mounted inspectors\". Most rode on horseback, but a few operated automobiles, motorcycles and boats. Although these inspectors had broader arrest authority, they still largely pursued Chinese immigrants trying to avoid the National Origins Act and Chinese Exclusion Act of 1882. These patrolmen were Immigration Inspectors, assigned to inspection stations, and could not watch the border at all times. U.S. Army soldiers along the southwest border performed intermittent border patrolling, but this was secondary to \"the more serious work of military training.\" Immigrants encountered illegally in the U.S. by the Army were directed to the immigration inspection stations. Texas Rangers were also sporadically assigned to patrol duties by the state, and their efforts were noted as \"singularly effective\".\n\nThe U.S. Border Patrol was founded on May 28, 1924 (by the Labor Appropriation Act of 1924) as an agency of the United States Department of Labor to prevent illegal entries along the Mexico–United States border and the Canada–U.S. border. The first Border Patrol station began operations in Detroit, Michigan in June 1924. A second station in El Paso, Texas began operations in July 1924. Additional operations were established along the Gulf Coast in 1927 to perform crewman control to ensure that foreign crewmen departed on the same ship on which they arrived. In 1932, the Border Patrol was divided into two offices. Mexican border operations were directed from El Paso, Texas and Canadian border operations were directed from Detroit, Michigan. The Canadian border operations from Detroit employed more men than the El Paso operations along the Mexican border because of a focus on the prevention of liquor smuggling during prohibition. Franklin Delano Roosevelt's Executive Order 6166 formed the Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS) in 1933 by consolidation of the Bureau of Immigration and the Bureau of Naturalization. Following the outbreak of World War II in Europe, Border Patrol staffing doubled to 1,500 in 1940, and the INS was moved from the Department of Labor to the U.S. Department of Justice. Additional stations were temporarily added along the Gulf Coast, Florida and the Eastern Seaboard during the 1960s after Fidel Castro triumphed in the Cuban Revolution and that was followed by the Cuban Missile Crisis. INS was decommissioned in March 2003 when its operations were divided between CBP, United States Citizenship and Immigration Services, and U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement.\n\nIn the wake of the attacks of September 11, the Border Patrol was placed under the umbrella of the Department of Homeland Security, and preventing terrorists and terrorist weapons from entering the United States was added to its mission. The Border Patrol's traditional mission continued: deterring, detecting and apprehending illegal immigrants and individuals involved in the illegal drug trade who generally entered the United States at places other than through designated ports of entry. The Border Patrol also erected 33 permanent interior checkpoints near the southern border of the United States.\n\nFor fiscal year 2017, the nationwide total of Border Patrol agents was 19,437. Southwest border sectors were patrolled by 16,605 agents, while 2,048 other agents staffed northern border sectors and 212 were assigned to coastal border sectors. Agents primarily patrol the Mexico–United States border, where they control drug trafficking and illegal immigration.\n\nThe majority of Border Patrol agents are minorities. According to 2016 data, Latinos comprise slightly more than 50% of the Border Patrol.\n\nThe Border Patrol's priorities have changed over the years. In 1986, the Immigration Reform and Control Act placed renewed emphasis on controlling illegal immigration by going after the employers that hire illegal aliens. The belief was that jobs were the magnet that attracted most illegal aliens to come to the United States. The Border Patrol increased interior enforcement and Form I-9 audits of businesses through an inspection program known as \"employer sanctions\". Several agents were assigned to interior stations, such as within the Livermore Sector in Northern California.\n\nEmployer sanctions never became the effective tool it was expected to be by Congress. Illegal immigration continued to swell after the 1986 amnesty despite employer sanctions. By 1993, Californians passed Proposition 187, denying benefits to illegal aliens and criminalizing illegal aliens in possession of forged green cards, identification cards, and Social Security numbers. It also authorized police officers to question non-nationals as to their immigration status and required police and sheriff departments to cooperate and report illegal aliens to the INS. Proposition 187 drew nationwide attention to illegal immigration.\n\nUnited States Border Patrol Interior Checkpoints are inspection stations operated by the USBP within of an international border (with Mexico or Canada) or any U.S. coastline, or in the Florida Keys.\n\nEl Paso Sector Chief Patrol Agent Silvestre Reyes started a program called \"Operation Hold the Line\". In this program, Border Patrol agents would no longer react to illegal entries resulting in apprehensions, but would instead be forward deployed to the border, immediately detecting any attempted entries or deterring crossing at a more remote location. The idea was that it would be easier to capture illegal entrants in the wide open deserts than through the urban alleyways. Chief Reyes deployed his agents along the Rio Grande, within eyesight of other agents. The program significantly reduced illegal entries in the urban part of El Paso, however, the operation merely shifted the illegal entries to other areas.\n\nSan Diego Sector tried Silvestre Reyes' approach of forward deploying agents to deter illegal entries into the country. Congress authorized the hiring of thousands of new agents, and many were sent to San Diego Sector. In addition, Congressman Duncan Hunter became a major proponent of border fencing; surplus military landing mats were obtained to use as an initial border fence. Stadium lighting, ground sensors and infra-red cameras were also placed in the area. Eventually the primitive landing mat fence was replaced with a modern triple fence line that begins over one hundred yards into the Pacific Ocean at Imperial Beach, CA and ends more than 13 miles (19 km) inland on Otay Mesa where the mountains begin.\n\nThrough agency whistleblowers, Agent Mark Hall and Agent Robert Lindemann, it was revealed that in 2001, the Border Patrol had approximately 324 agents assigned along the Canada–United States border. Northern border staffing had been increased by 1,128 agents to 1,470 agents by the end of fiscal year 2008, and is projected to expand to 1,845 by the end of fiscal year 2009, a sixfold increase. Resources that support Border Patrol agents include the use of new technology and a more focused application of air and marine assets.\n\nThe northern border sectors are (west to east): Blaine (Washington), Spokane (Washington), Havre (Montana), Grand Forks (North Dakota), Detroit (Selfridge ANGB, Michigan), Buffalo (New York), Swanton (Vermont), and Houlton (Maine).\n\nIn November 2005, the U.S. Border Patrol published an updated national strategy. The goal of this updated strategy is operational control of the United States border. The strategy has five main objectives:\n\nThe United States border is a barely discernible line in uninhabited deserts, canyons, or mountains. The Border Patrol utilizes a variety of equipment and methods, such as electronic sensors placed at strategic locations along the border, to detect people or vehicles entering the country illegally. Video monitors and night vision scopes are also used to detect illegal entries. Agents patrol the border in vehicles, boats, aircraft, and afoot. In some areas, the Border Patrol employs horses, all-terrain motorcycles, bicycles, and snowmobiles. Air surveillance capabilities are provided by unmanned aerial vehicles.\n\nThe primary activity of a Border Patrol Agent is \"Line Watch\". Line Watch involves the detection, prevention, and apprehension of terrorists, illegal aliens and smugglers of aliens at or near the land border by maintaining surveillance from a covert position; following up on leads; responding to electronic sensor, television systems and aircraft sightings; and interpreting and following tracks, marks, and other physical evidence. Major activities include traffic check, traffic observation, city patrol, transportation check, administrative, intelligence, and anti-smuggling activities.\n\nTraffic checks are conducted on major highways leading away from the border to detect and apprehend illegal aliens attempting to travel further into the interior of the United States after evading detection at the border, and to detect illegal narcotics.\n\nTransportation checks are inspections of interior-bound conveyances, which include buses, commercial aircraft, passenger and freight trains, and marine craft.\n\nMarine Patrols are conducted along the coastal waterways of the United States, primarily along the Pacific coast, the Caribbean, the tip of Florida, and Puerto Rico and interior waterways common to the United States and Canada. Border Patrol conducts border control activities from 130 marine craft of various sizes. The Border Patrol maintains watercraft ranging from blue-water craft to inflatable-hull craft, in 16 sectors, in addition to headquarters special operations components.\n\nHorse and bike patrols are used to augment regular vehicle and foot patrols. Horse units patrol remote areas along the international boundary that are inaccessible to standard all-terrain vehicles. Bike patrol aids city patrol and is used over rough terrain to support linewatch. Snowmobiles are used to patrol remote areas along the northern border in the winter.\n\nIn 1992, the United States Border Patrol had approximately 4,139 Patrol Agents on the job. Attrition in the Border Patrol was normally at 5%. From 1995–2001 annual attrition rose to above 10%, which was a period when the Border Patrol was undergoing massive hiring. In 2002 the attrition rate climbed to 18%. The 18% attrition was largely attributed to agents transferring to the Federal Air Marshals after 9/11. Since that time the attrition rate has decreased. Congress increased journeyman Border Patrol Agent pay from a GS-9 rate to a GS-11 rate in 2002. The Border Patrol Marine Position was created in 2009 (BPA-M). This position will be updated to a GS-12 position sometime in 2010 or 2011. Border Patrol Field Training Officers may possibly be updated in 2010 to a temporary GS-12 pay rate. In 2005, Border Patrol attrition dropped to 4% and remains in the area of 4% to 6% as of 2009.\n\nThe Intelligence Reform and Terrorism Prevention Act of 2004 (signed by President Bush on December 17, 2004) authorized hiring an additional 10,000 agents, \"subject to appropriation\". This authorization nearly doubled the Border Patrol manpower from 11,000 to 20,000 agents by 2010. As of 2016, roughly half of the agents are Latino Americans.\n\nThe Secure Fence Act, signed by President George W. Bush on October 26, 2006, has met with much opposition. In October 2007, environmental groups and concerned citizens filed a restraining order hoping to halt the construction of the fence, set to be built between the United States and Mexico. The act mandates that the fence be built by December 2008. Ultimately, the United States seeks to put fencing around the border, but the act requires only of fencing. DHS secretary Michael Chertoff has bypassed environmental and other oppositions with a waiver that was granted to him by Congress in Section 102 of the act, which allows DHS to avoid any conflicts that would prevent a speedy assembly of the fence.\n\nThis action has led many environment groups and landowners to speak out against the impending construction of the fence. Environment and wildlife groups fear that the plans to clear brush, construct fences, install bright lights, motion sensors, and cameras will scare wildlife and endanger the indigenous species of the area. Environmentalists claim that the ecosystem could be affected because a border fence would restrict movement of all animal species, which in turn would keep them from water and food sources on one side or another. Desert plants would also feel the impact, as they would be uprooted in many areas where the fence is set to occupy.\n\nProperty owners in these areas fear a loss of land. Landowners would have to give some of their land over to the government for the fence. Citizens also fear that communities will be split. Many students travel over the border every day to attend classes at the University of Texas at Brownsville. Brownsville mayor Pat Ahumada favors alternative options to a border fence. He suggests that the Rio Grande be widened and deepened to provide for a natural barrier to hinder illegal aliens and drug smugglers.\n\n\nIn 2007, the U.S. Border Patrol created the Special Operations Group (SOG) headquartered in El Paso, TX to coordinate the special operations units of the agency.\nThe U.S. Border Patrol has a number of other specialized programs and details. Marine Patrol – In the riverine environments of the northern and southwestern borders of the continental United States, the Border Patrol conducts border control activities from the decks of marine craft of various sizes. Since 2006, the U.S. Border Patrol has relinquished its littoral law enforcement missions in the Great Lakes and territorial seas to the Office of Air and Marine. The U.S. Border Patrol maintains over 130 vessels, ranging from blue-water craft to inflatable-hull craft, in 16 sectors, in addition to Headquarters special operations components.\n\nK9 Units, Mounted Patrol, Bike patrol, Sign-cutting (tracking), Snowmobile unit, Infrared scope unit, Intelligence, Anti-smuggling Investigations Unit (ASU/DISRUPT, Border Criminal Alien Program, Multi-agency Anti-Gang Task Forces (regional & local units), Honor Guard, Pipes and Drums, Chaplain, Peer Support, Mobile Surveillance Unit.\n\n\"Operation Gatekeeper\" was launched in 1994 to stop migrants from crossing illegally into the United States. The strategy included increased enforcement and extensive fencing near border cities, with the twofold purpose of deflecting migrants to remote areas where they could more easily be detected and apprehended, as well as using the formidable mountains, deserts, and Rio Grande as a deterrent to easy passage. The newly erected Mexico–United States barrier—which at some remote locations is no more than a fence—has also forced migrants and human traffickers to seek out remote desert locations in California, Arizona, New Mexico and Texas where they may attempt crossing. The \"funnel effect\" created by both these strategies has contributed to the deaths of thousands of migrants, whose remains are often found in the hot desert or freezing mountains.\n\nAs early as 1998, the former Immigration and Naturalization Service implemented the Border Safety Initiative in response to concerns about the number of migrants injured or killed while attempting to cross the border. It was noted that Border Patrol agents routinely supplied water, food, and medical care to migrants. That same year, Border Patrol, Search, Trauma and Rescue (BORSTAR), a specialized unit trained in emergency search and rescue, was established with the purpose of assisting injured or stranded migrants at remote locations.\n\nIn 2002, the first \"rescue beacons\" were installed in desert areas considered especially dangerous. The beacons are solar powered and highly visible, and have a button which alerts Border Patrol agents by radio signal, after which a helicopter or ground unit is dispatched. U.S. Senator Bill Frist commented in 2006: \"these beacons, I believe, are an absolutely vital link in our border security system... We know that beacons work: CBP has already saved dozens of people based entirely on beacon alerts.\" The Border Patrol frequently publishes reports about stranded and injured individuals rescued at beacon locations.\n\nDuring a 12-month period in 2011–12, Border Patrol agents made 1,312 rescues along the Mexico-United States border, nearly half occurring in the Tucson Sector.\n\nThere are 20 Border Patrol sectors, each headed by a Sector Chief Patrol Agent.\n\nAll Border Patrol agents spend a minimum of 13 weeks at the Border Patrol Academy (if they are fluent in Spanish) in Artesia, New Mexico, which is a component of the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center (FLETC). Those who are not fluent in Spanish spend an additional eight weeks at the Academy for a total of 21 weeks. Border Patrol Agent Trainees are instructed in courses including; criminal law, nationality law, and administrative immigration law, police sciences, self-defense and arrest techniques, firearms training with pistol, shotgun and rifle, police vehicle driving, and other Border Patrol / federal law enforcement subjects.\n\nOnce they arrive back at their duty station, Trainees then must graduate from the Field Training Officer (FTO) program, an on-the-job training program, which varies in length from a minimum of 12 weeks to a maximum of over 16 weeks long, depending on the practical demands of the duty station and local management. They must also successfully complete the Post Academy Training Program, an extension of the Border Patrol Academy where Trainees complete additional classroom-based training over the course of their first nine months back at their duty station.\n\nThe marksmanship skills of Border Patrol agents ranks among the best in the United States. At the National Police Shooting Championships in 2012, Border Patrol agents placed first, second or third in each of the 29 shooting matches.\n\nThe Border Patrol, c. 2007, wore the following types of uniforms:\n\n\nThe Border Patrol uniform is getting its first makeover since the 1950s to appear more like military fatigues and less like a police officer's duty garb. Leather belts with brass buckles are being replaced by nylon belts with quick-release plastic buckles, slacks are being replaced by lightweight cargo pants, and shiny badges and nameplates are being replaced by cloth patches.\n\nThe Border Patrol's highest honor is the Newton-Azrak Award for Heroism. This Award is bestowed to Border Patrol Agents for extraordinary actions, service; accomplishments reflecting unusual courage or bravery in the line of duty; or an extraordinarily heroic or humane act committed during times of extreme stress or in an emergency.\n\nThis award is named for Border Patrol Inspectors Theodore Newton and George Azrak, who were murdered by two drug smugglers in San Diego County in 1967.\n\nBorder Patrol agents are issued the H&K P2000 double action LEM (Law Enforcement Modification) pistol in .40 S&W caliber. It can contain as many as 13 rounds of ammunition (12 in the magazine and one in the chamber). Up until 1994 the Border Patrol issued its Patrol Agents a .357 Magnum revolver as their duty sidearm, a Smith & Wesson or Ruger model large frame, six shot revolver. The Border Patrol preferred this weapon because it did not jam in harsh conditions, like those of the southwestern border, and also because of the strong \"stopping\" power of the .357 Magnum cartridge. Although up until 1994 Patrol Agents could purchase a weapon from the agency list of approved authorized personal weapons for duty carry. This list included the Glock Models 17 and 19 pistols in 9mm, the SIG Sauer P220 pistol in .45 ACP caliber, the Colt Python .357 Magnum revolver, and the Smith & Wesson Model 19/66 .357 Magnum revolver. The Border Patrol adopted the Beretta Model 96D, a .40 S&W caliber semi-automatic pistol (modified for Double-Action Only) (with 11-round capacity magazines) as its duty issue sidearm in 1995. The .40 S&W caliber jacketed hollow-point cartridge was adopted because of its excellent \"stopping\" power and its superior ballistic characteristics over the 9mm cartridge. In late 2006 the H&K P2000 pistol was adopted as the Border Patrol's primary duty sidearm. The H&K Model USP Compact pistol, H&K Model P2000SK (sub-compact) and Beretta M96D .40 S&W caliber pistols are authorized as secondary sidearms.\nLike many other law enforcement agencies, the 12 gauge Remington Model 870 is the standard pump-action shotgun. The Border Patrol issue Model 870 has been modified by Scattergun Technologies to Border Patrol specifications including: a 14-inch barrel, a five-shot capacity magazine, a composite stock with pistol grip, and night sights with a tactical \"ghost-ring\" rear sight. The old Border Patrol \"anti-bandit\" units used to use a 12-gauge, semi-automatic shotgun with a sawed-off barrel. This weapon had the designated name of a \"Sidewinder.\" The USBP anti-bandit units were decommissioned in the late 1980s.\n\nBorder Patrol agents also commonly carry the .223 caliber Colt M4 Carbine (M4A1) and the H&K UMP .40 caliber submachine gun. The .308 caliber M14 rifle is used for ceremonial purposes and by agents who are qualified with the rifle and BORTAC.\n\nAs less than lethal options, the Border Patrol uses the FN 303 Launcher. The FN 303 fires plastic pellet balls containing OC (Oleoresin Capsicum) Pepper dust. The plastic pellet balls burst on impact spraying the suspect with OC Pepper dust and also act as an impact projectile. The Border Patrol also issues its agents OC Pepper spray canisters, tasers and a collapsible/telescopic (or telescoping) steel police baton.\n\nUnlike in many other law enforcement agencies in the United States, the Border Patrol operates over 10,000 SUVs and pickup trucks, which are known for their capabilities to move around in any sort of terrain. These vehicles may have individual revolving lights (strobes or LEDs) and/or light bars and sirens and/or have their bumpers removed or have off-road suspension and tires. An extensive modernization drive has ensured that these vehicles are equipped with wireless sets in communication with a central control room. Border Patrol vehicles may also have equipment such as emergency first aid kits. Some sectors make use of sedans like the Ford Crown Victoria Police Interceptor or the Dodge Charger as patrol cars or high speed \"interceptors\" on highways. The border patrol has approx 2,000 sedans. The Border Patrol also operates all-terrain vehicles, motorcycles, snowmobiles, and small boats in riverine environments.\n\nIn 2005, all Border Patrol and ICE aircraft operations were combined under CBP's Office of Air and Marine. All CBP vessel operations within the Customs Waters and on the high seas are conducted by Marine Interdiction Agents of the Office of Air and Marine.\n\nColor schemes of Border Patrol vehicles are either a long green stripe running the length of the vehicle (older vehicles) or a broad green diagonal stripe (newer vehicles) on the door. Most Border Patrol vehicles are painted predominantly white. During the 1960s to mid-1980s Border Patrol vehicles were painted a light green.\n\nThe Border Patrol also extensively uses horses for remote area patrols. , the U.S. Border Patrol has 205 horses. Most are employed along the Mexico–United States border. In Arizona, these animals are fed special processed feed pellets so that their wastes do not spread non-native plants in the national parks and wildlife areas they patrol.\n\nSince 1904, the Border Patrol has lost 123 officers in the line of duty, more than any other federal law enforcement agency during that time period.\n\nOn August 7, 2008, Mexican troops crossed the border into Arizona and held a U.S. Border Patrol Agent at gunpoint. Agents stationed at Ajo, Arizona said that the Mexican soldiers crossed the border into an isolated area southwest of Tucson and pointed rifles at the agent, who has not been identified. The Mexicans withdrew after other U.S. agents arrived on the scene.\n\nOn March 14, 2000, 16 Mexican soldiers in two humvees chased a Border Patrol agent near Santa Teresa, New Mexico, while another agent came under gunfire. Backup arrived and the soldiers were detained. The Mexican government said the soldiers got lost. The U.S. State Department ordered them sent back to Mexico along with their weapons.\n\nTestifying in front of the United States Senate, Border Patrol Chief Mark Morgan said that the Border Patrol is the one of the most assaulted law enforcement agencies; since 2006, over seven thousand agents of the Border Patrol were attacked. On numerous occasions USBP agents have been fired upon from the Mexican side of the international border. Intelligence gathering has discovered bounties being placed on Patrol Agents to be paid by criminal smuggling organizations upon the confirmed murder or kidnapping of a U.S. Border Patrol Agent. In 2008, intelligence learned of a two-million-dollar contract for the murder of a Border Patrol Agent. In 2009 Border Patrol Agent Rosas was murdered in an ambush while on patrol; a bounty may have been paid to the assassins.\n\n\"See also:\" Criticism of the United States government § Criticism of agencies\n\nIn February 2005, Border Patrol Agents Ignacio Ramos and Jose Compean were involved in an incident while pursuing a van in Fabens, Texas. The driver, later identified as Aldrete Davila, was shot by Agent Ramos during a scuffle. Davila escaped back into Mexico, and the agents discovered that the van contained a million dollars worth of marijuana (about 750 pounds). None of the agents at the scene orally reported the shooting, including two supervisors: Robert Arnold, first-line Supervisor and Jonathan Richards, a higher ranking Field Operations Supervisor.\nRamos and Compean were charged with multiple crimes. Ramos was convicted of causing serious bodily injury, assault with a deadly weapon, discharge of a firearm in relation to a crime of violence, and a civil rights violation. Compeán was found guilty on 11 counts, including discharging a firearm during the commission of a violent crime, which by itself carries a federally mandated 10-year minimum sentence. Without that charge, both agents involved would have received far shorter sentences. Ramos was sentenced to 11 years and a day in prison and Compean to 12 years. Jonathan Richards was promoted to the Patrol Agent in Charge of the Santa Teresa, New Mexico Border Patrol Station soon after the incident. On January 19, 2009, President Bush commuted the sentences of both Ramos and Compean, effectively ending their prison term on March 20, 2009, and they were released on February 17, 2009. The case generated widely differing opinion among various commentators and advocacy groups: civil libertarians asserted the agents used illegal and excessive force, while advocates of tighter border control defended the agents actions.\n\nSergio Adrian Hernandez was a teenager who was shot once and killed on June 7, 2010 by Border Patrol agents under a bridge crossing between El Paso, Texas and Juarez, Mexico.\n\nBorder Patrol agents claimed that there was a mob that was throwing stones at them. They also claimed that Hernandez was trying to cross the U.S. border and that he had already tried to do so in the past. For his involvement in the incident, Border Patrol agent Jesus Mesa, Jr. invoked qualified official immunity in his defense.\n\nOn June 10 the Mexican president Felipe Calderón called on the United States to launch a \"thorough, impartial\" probe into the deaths of two Mexican nationals, including the 14-year-old Hernandez, at the hands of U.S. border police: \"I demand the United States government conduct a thorough, impartial ... investigation, concluding with an establishment of the facts and punishment of the culprits.\"\n\nOn June 12, 2010 the television network Univision aired cellphone video footage of the incident, after which Mexican legislators called for the extradition of the officer accused of the shooting.\n\nOn May 30, 2010 Anastasio Hernandez-Rojas died of a heart attack while in the custody of United States Border Patrol (USBP), Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE), and U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) and agents and officers at the San Diego–Tijuana border He was beaten and then shocked by Tasers on at the San Diego–Tijuana border within view of many bystanders with cameras on the busy pedestrian bridge at the San Ysidro Port of Entry. Although the United States Department of Justice (DOJ) investigation concluded on November 6, 2015 that Hernández Rojas died of a heart attack, an offer of a million-dollar settlement was made to his family. None of the agents or officers involved were fired or disciplined for excessive use of force. In February 2017, his common-law wife and five children accepted the settlement. Hernández-Rojas's death was profiled in a 2012 PBS report called \"Crossing the Line\", in Nonny de la Peña's, 2013 five-minute-long virtual reality called \"Use of Force\" and in a 2014 American Civil Liberties Union report.\n\nAs the Washington Office on Latin America's Border Fact Check site points out, a similar incident occurred in October 2012 when 16-year-old Jose Antonio Elena Rodriguez was killed in downtown Nogales, Mexico when a Border Patrol Agent, Lonnie Swartz, opened fire at a group of people allegedly throwing rocks at him; Rodriguez was shot seven times in the back. WOLA and other human rights organizations assert that \"...[L]aw enforcement experience offers a series of non-lethal responses to rock throwing incidents along the U.S.-Mexico border,\" such as pepper ball launchers. In September 2015, Swartz was indicted on the charge of second-degree murder.\n\nOn November 25, 2013, the San Diego Tribune reported that 100 migrants who tried to cross the border in the to illegally cross the border near the San Ysidro port were pepper-sprayed and tear-gassed after throwing bottles and rocks at border patrol agents. A similar incident was reported in November 2018.\n\nVarious civil society and human rights organizations have alleged that abuses of migrants by Border Patrol agents occur frequently:\n\n\n\nIncidences of corruption in the U.S. Border Patrol include:\n\nNational Border Patrol Council (NBPC) is the labor union which represents over 17,000 Border Patrol agents and support staff. The NBPC was founded on November 1, 1965, and its parent organization is the American Federation of Government Employees, AFL-CIO. The NBPC's executive committee is staffed by current and retired Border Patrol agents and, along with its constituent locals, employs a staff of a dozen attorneys and field representatives. The NBPC is associated with the Peace Officer Research Association of California Legal Defense Fund|California's Legal Defense Fund.\n\nThe Border Patrol Foundation was founded in 2009 to assist the survivors of agents killed in the line of duty. The foundation provides financial support to immediate family members, peer family support, and a scholarship to eligible children. The foundation recognizes community leaders who have supported the families of fallen agents, and supports programs to improve awareness of the risks faced by agents.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10417861", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10417861", "title": "Village design statement", "text": "Village design statement\n\nVillage Design Statement (VDS) is a term of English rural planning practice. A VDS is a document that describes the distinctive characteristics of the locality, and provides design guidance to influence future development and improve the physical qualities of the area. Due to the rural bias of many communities and the large urban majority in the UK its often considered in the context of urban planning although it was developed for the rural setting. \n\nDrawing up the VDS provides an opportunity for communities to describe how they feel the physical character of their parish can be enhanced.\n\nRural Community Councils support local communities in the production of Village Design Statements.\n\nOriginally the VDSs focused on only the built environment, but due to development in the surveying methods they began to include elements of service provision and have largely been superseded by Village Action Plans.\n\n\n"}
