{"id": "680", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=680", "title": "Aardvark", "text": "Aardvark\n\nThe aardvark ( ; \"Orycteropus afer\") is a medium-sized, burrowing, nocturnal mammal native to Africa. It is the only living species of the order Tubulidentata, although other prehistoric species and genera of Tubulidentata are known. Unlike other insectivores, it has a long pig-like snout, which is used to sniff out food. It roams over most of the southern two-thirds of the African continent, avoiding areas that are mainly rocky. A nocturnal feeder, it subsists on ants and termites, which it will dig out of their hills using its sharp claws and powerful legs. It also digs to create burrows in which to live and rear its young. It receives a \"least concern\" rating from the IUCN, although its numbers seem to be decreasing.\n\nThe aardvark is sometimes colloquially called \"African ant bear\", \"anteater\" (not to be confused with the South American anteater), or the \"Cape anteater\" after the Cape of Good Hope. The name \"aardvark\" () comes from earlier Afrikaans (erdvark) and means \"earth pig\" or \"ground pig\" (\"aarde\": earth/ground, \"vark\": pig), because of its burrowing habits. The name \"Orycteropus\" means burrowing foot, and the name \"afer\" refers to Africa. The name of the aardvarks's order, \"Tubulidentata,\" comes from the tubule-style teeth.\n\nThe aardvark is not closely related to the pig; rather, it is the sole extant representative of the obscure mammalian order Tubulidentata, in which it is usually considered to form one variable species of the genus \"Orycteropus\", the sole surviving genus in the family Orycteropodidae. The aardvark is not closely related to the South American anteater, despite sharing some characteristics and a superficial resemblance. The similarities are based on convergent evolution. The closest living relatives of the aardvark are the elephant shrews, tenrecs and golden moles. Along with the sirenians, hyraxes, elephants, and their extinct relatives, these animals form the superorder Afrotheria. Studies of the brain have shown the similarities with Condylarthra, and given the clade's status as a wastebasket taxon it may mean some species traditionally classified as \"condylarths\" are actually stem-aardvarks.\n\nBased on fossils, Bryan Patterson has concluded that early relatives of the aardvark appeared in Africa around the end of the Paleocene. The ptolemaiidans, a mysterious clade of mammals with uncertain affinities, may actually be stem-aardvarks, either as a sister clade to Tubulidentata or as a grade leading to true tubulidentates.\n\nThe first unambiguous tubulidentate was probably \"Myorycteropus africanus\" from Kenyan Miocene deposits. The earliest example from the genus \"Orycteropus\" was \"Orycteropus mauritanicus\", found in Algeria in deposits from the middle Miocene, with an equally old version found in Kenya. Fossils from the aardvark have been dated to 5 million years, and have been located throughout Europe and the Near East.\n\nThe mysterious Pleistocene \"Plesiorycteropus\" from Madagascar was originally thought to be a tubulidentate that was descended from ancestors that entered the island during the Eocene. However, a number of subtle anatomical differences coupled with recent molecular evidence now lead researchers to believe that \"Plesiorycteropus\" is a relative of golden moles and tenrecs that achieved an aardvark-like appearance and ecological niche through convergent evolution.\n\nThe aardvark has seventeen poorly defined subspecies listed:\n\n\nThe 1911 Encyclopædia Britannica also mentions \"O. a. capensis\" or Cape ant-bear from South Africa.\n\nThe aardvark is vaguely pig-like in appearance. Its body is stout with a prominently arched back and is sparsely covered with coarse hairs. The limbs are of moderate length, with the rear legs being longer than the forelegs. The front feet have lost the pollex (or 'thumb'), resulting in four toes, while the rear feet have all five toes. Each toe bears a large, robust nail which is somewhat flattened and shovel-like, and appears to be intermediate between a claw and a hoof. Whereas the aardvark is considered digitigrade, it appears at time to be plantigrade. This confusion happens because when it squats it stands on its soles. A contributing characteristic to the burrow digging capabilities of aardvarks is an endosteal tissue called compacted coarse cancellous bone (CCCB). The stress and strain resistance provided by CCCB allows aardvarks to create their burrows, ultimately leading to a favorable environment for plants and a variety of animals. \n\nAn aardvark's weight is typically between . An aardvark's length is usually between , and can reach lengths of when its tail (which can be up to ) is taken into account. It is tall at the shoulder, and has a girth of about . It is the largest member of the proposed clade Afroinsectiphilia. The aardvark is pale yellowish-gray in color and often stained reddish-brown by soil. The aardvark's coat is thin, and the animal's primary protection is its tough skin. Its hair is short on its head and tail; however its legs tend to have longer hair. The hair on the majority of its body is grouped in clusters of 3-4 hairs. The hair surrounding its nostrils is dense to help filter particulate matter out as it digs. Its tail is very thick at the base and gradually tapers.\n\nThe greatly elongated head is set on a short, thick neck, and the end of the snout bears a disc, which houses the nostrils. It contains a thin but complete zygomatic arch. The head of the aardvark contains many unique and different features. One of the most distinctive characteristics of the Tubulidentata is their teeth. Instead of having a pulp cavity, each tooth has a cluster of thin, hexagonal, upright, parallel tubes of vasodentin (a modified form of dentine), with individual pulp canals, held together by cementum. The number of columns is dependent on the size of the tooth, with the largest having about 1,500. The teeth have no enamel coating and are worn away and regrow continuously. The aardvark is born with conventional incisors and canines at the front of the jaw, which fall out and are not replaced. Adult aardvarks have only cheek teeth at the back of the jaw, and have a dental formula of: These remaining teeth are peg-like and rootless and are of unique composition. The teeth consist of 14 upper and 12 lower jaw molars. The nasal area of the aardvark is another unique area, as it contains ten nasal conchae, more than any other placental mammal.\n\nThe sides of the nostrils are thick with hair. The tip of the snout is highly mobile and is moved by modified mimetic muscles. The fleshy dividing tissue between its nostrils probably has sensory functions, but it is uncertain whether they are olfactory or vibratory in nature. Its nose is made up of more turbinate bones than any other mammal, with between 9 and 11, compared to dogs with 4 to 5. With a large quantity of turbinate bones, the aardvark has more space for the moist epithelium, which is the location of the olfactory bulb. The nose contains nine olfactory bulbs, more than any other mammal. Its keen sense of smell is not just from the quantity of bulbs in the nose but also in the development of the brain, as its olfactory lobe is very developed. The snout resembles an elongated pig snout. The mouth is small and tubular, typical of species that feed on ants and termites. The aardvark has a long, thin, snakelike, protruding tongue (as much as long) and elaborate structures supporting a keen sense of smell. The ears, which are very effective, are disproportionately long, about long. The eyes are small for its head, and consist only of rods.\n\nThe aardvark's stomach has a muscular pyloric area that acts as a gizzard to grind swallowed food up, thereby rendering chewing unnecessary. Its cecum is large. Both sexes emit a strong smelling secretion from an anal gland. Its salivary glands are highly developed and almost completely ring the neck; their output is what causes the tongue to maintain its tackiness. The female has two pairs of teats in the inguinal region.\n\nGenetically speaking, the aardvark is a living fossil, as its chromosomes are highly conserved, reflecting much of the early eutherian arrangement before the divergence of the major modern taxa.\n\nAardvarks are found in sub-Saharan Africa, where suitable habitat (savannas, grasslands, woodlands and bushland) and food (i.e., ants and termites) is available. They spend the daylight hours in dark underground burrows to avoid the heat of the day. The only major habitat that they are not present in is swamp forest, as the high water table precludes digging to a sufficient depth. They also avoid terrain rocky enough to cause problems with digging. They have been documented as high as in Ethiopia. They are present throughout sub-Saharan Africa all the way to South Africa with few exceptions. These exceptions include the coastal areas of Namibia, Ivory Coast, and Ghana. They are not found in Madagascar.\n\nAardvarks live for up to 23 years in captivity. Its keen hearing warns it of predators: lions, leopards, cheetahs, hunting dogs, hyenas, and pythons. Some humans also hunt aardvarks for meat. Aardvarks can dig fast or run in zigzag fashion to elude enemies, but if all else fails, they will strike with their claws, tail and shoulders, sometimes flipping onto their backs lying motionless except to lash out with all four feet. They are capable of causing substantial damage to unprotected areas of an attacker. They will also dig to escape as they can, when pressed, dig extremely quickly. \n\nThe aardvark is nocturnal and is a solitary creature that feeds almost exclusively on ants and termites (myrmecophagy); the only fruit eaten by aardvarks is the aardvark cucumber. In fact, the cucumber and the aardvark have a symbiotic relationship as they eat the subterranean fruit, then defecate the seeds near their burrows, which then grow rapidly due to the loose soil and fertile nature of the area. The time spent in the intestine of the aardvark helps the fertility of the seed, and the fruit provides needed moisture for the aardvark. They avoid eating the African driver ant and red ants. Due to their stringent diet requirements, they require a large range to survive. An aardvark emerges from its burrow in the late afternoon or shortly after sunset, and forages over a considerable home range encompassing . While foraging for food, the aardvark will keep its nose to the ground and its ears pointed forward, which indicates that both smell and hearing are involved in the search for food. They zig-zag as they forage and will usually not repeat a route for 5–8 days as they appear to allow time for the termite nests to recover before feeding on it again.\n\nDuring a foraging period, they will stop and dig a \"V\" shaped trench with their forefeet and then sniff it profusely as a means to explore their location. When a concentration of ants or termites is detected, the aardvark digs into it with its powerful front legs, keeping its long ears upright to listen for predators, and takes up an astonishing number of insects with its long, sticky tongue—as many as 50,000 in one night have been recorded. Its claws enable it to dig through the extremely hard crust of a termite or ant mound quickly. It avoids inhaling the dust by sealing the nostrils. When successful, the aardvark's long (up to ) tongue licks up the insects; the termites' biting, or the ants' stinging attacks are rendered futile by the tough skin. After an aardvark visit at a termite mound, other animals will visit to pick up all the leftovers. Termite mounds alone don't provide enough food for the aardvark, so they look for termites that are on the move. When these insects move, they can form columns long and these tend to provide easy pickings with little effort exerted by the aardvark. These columns are more common in areas of livestock or other hoofed animals. The trampled grass and dung attract termites from Odontotermes, Microtermes, and Pseudacanthotermes genera.\n\nOn a nightly basis they tend to be more active during the first portion of the night time (20:00-00:00); however, they don't seem to prefer bright or dark nights over the other. During adverse weather or if disturbed they will retreat to their burrow systems. They cover between per night; however, some studies have shown that they may traverse as far as in a night.\n\nThe aardvark is a rather quiet animal. However, it does make soft grunting sounds as it forages and loud grunts as it makes for its tunnel entrance. It makes a bleating sound if frightened. When it is threatened it will make for one of its burrows. If one is not close it will dig a new one rapidly. This new one will be short and require the aardvark to back out when the coast is clear.\n\nThe aardvark is known to be a good swimmer and has been witnessed successfully swimming in strong currents. It can dig a yard of tunnel in about five minutes, but otherwise moves fairly slowly.\n\nWhen leaving the burrow at night, they pause at the entrance for about ten minutes, sniffing and listening. After this period of watchfulness, it will bound out and within seconds it will be away. It will then pause, prick its ears, twisting its head to listen, then jump and move off to start foraging.\n\nAside from digging out ants and termites, the aardvark also excavates burrows in which to live; of which they generally fall into three categories: burrows made while foraging, refuge and resting location, and permanent homes. Temporary sites are scattered around the home range and are used as refuges, while the main burrow is also used for breeding. Main burrows can be deep and extensive, have several entrances and can be as long as . These burrows can be large enough for a man to enter. The aardvark changes the layout of its home burrow regularly, and periodically moves on and makes a new one. The old burrows are an important part of the African wildlife scene. As they are vacated, then they are inhabited by smaller animals like the African wild dog, ant-eating chat, \"Nycteris thebaica\" and warthogs. Other animals that use them are hares, mongooses, hyenas, owls, pythons, and lizards. Without these refuges many animals would die during wildfire season. Only mothers and young share burrows; however, the aardvark is known to live in small family groups or as a solitary creature. If attacked in the tunnel, it will escape by digging out of the tunnel thereby placing the fresh fill between it and its predator, or if it decides to fight it will roll onto its back, and attack with its claws. The aardvark has been known to sleep in a recently excavated ant nest, which also serves as protection from its predators.\n\nAardvarks pair only during the breeding season; after a gestation period of seven months, one cub weighing around is born during May–July. When born, the young has flaccid ears and many wrinkles. When nursing, it will nurse off each teat in succession. After two weeks, the folds of skin disappear and after three, the ears can be held upright. After 5–6 weeks, body hair starts growing. It is able to leave the burrow to accompany its mother after only two weeks and eats termites at 9 weeks, and is weaned between three months and 16 weeks. At six months of age, it is able to dig its own burrows, but it will often remain with the mother until the next mating season, and is sexually mature from approximately two years of age.\n\nAardvarks were thought to have declining numbers, however, this is possibly due to the fact that they are not readily seen. There are no definitive counts because of their nocturnal and secretive habits; however, their numbers seem to be stable overall. They are not considered common anywhere in Africa, but due to their large range, they maintain sufficient numbers. There may be a slight decrease in numbers in eastern, northern, and western Africa. Southern African numbers are not decreasing. It receives an official designation from the IUCN as least concern. However, they are a species in a precarious situation, as they are so dependent on such specific food; therefore if a problem arises with the abundance of termites, the species as a whole would be affected drastically.\n\nAardvarks handle captivity well. The first zoo to have one was London Zoo in 1869, which had an animal from South Africa.\n\nIn African folklore, the aardvark is much admired because of its diligent quest for food and its fearless response to soldier ants. Hausa magicians make a charm from the heart, skin, forehead, and nails of the aardvark, which they then proceed to pound together with the root of a certain tree. Wrapped in a piece of skin and worn on the chest, the charm is said to give the owner the ability to pass through walls or roofs at night. The charm is said to be used by burglars and those seeking to visit young girls without their parents' permission. Also, some tribes, such as the Margbetu, Ayanda, and Logo, will use aardvark teeth to make bracelets, which are regarded as good luck charms. The meat, which has a resemblance to pork, is eaten in certain cultures.\n\nThe Egyptian god Set is usually depicted with the head of an unidentified animal, whose similarity to an aardvark has been noted in scholarship.\n\nThe titular character of \"Arthur\", an animated television series for children based on a book series and produced by WGBH, shown in more than 180 countries, is an aardvark.\n\nOtis the Aardvark was a puppet character used on Children's BBC programming.\n\nAn aardvark features as the antagonist in the cartoon \"The Ant and the Aardvark\" as well as in the Canadian animated series \"The Raccoons\".\n\nIn the military, the Air Force supersonic fighter-bomber F-111/FB-111 was nicknamed the Aardvark because of its long nose resembling the animal. It also had similarities with its nocturnal missions flown at a very low level employing ordnance that could penetrate deep into the ground. In the US Navy, the squadron VF-114 was nicknamed the Aardvarks, flying F-4s and then F-14s. The squadron mascot was adapted from the animal in the comic strip \"B.C.\", which the F-4 was said to resemble.\n\nCerebus the Aardvark is a 300-issue comic book series by Dave Sim.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17699519", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17699519", "title": "Agresphon", "text": "Agresphon\n\nAgresphon (Gr. ), or possibly Agreophon, was an ancient Greek grammarian mentioned in the \"Suda\". He wrote a work on persons with homonymous names, sometimes called in English \"On Namesakes\" ().\n\nAgresphon cannot have lived earlier than the reign of Hadrian, as in his work he spoke of an Apollonius who lived in the time of that emperor. Scholars generally date him to the late 3rd or early 4th century.\n\nAgresphon's book on homonymous people was thought to have been similar to, or perhaps dependent upon, a work by Demetrius of Magnesia, which bears the same title, and was written around the 1st century BC. There is some debate as to whether his name was properly \"Agresphon\" or \"Agreophon\".\n\nAnother, unrelated Agreophon who was father of Zenon around the 3rd century BC is mentioned frequently in the papyri of the Zenon Archive.\n"}
{"id": "33036480", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33036480", "title": "Artur Kozłowski (speleologist)", "text": "Artur Kozłowski (speleologist)\n\nArtur (Conrad) Kozłowski (17 October 1977 – 5 September 2011) was a Polish cave diver who spent his last years in Ireland. Amongst other achievements in cave exploration, he holds the record for the deepest cave dive in Great Britain and Ireland at a depth of .\n\nKozłowski came to Ireland from Poznań, in Poland, in 2006 and worked as a quantity surveyor. His projects included the Aviva Stadium and Heuston Square developments in Dublin. He would later play an important role in compiling maps for Galway County Council and the National Roads Authority for the design and development of the N18 road (Now the M18 motorway).\n\nWhen he moved to Ireland, Kozłowski was a qualified diver, with 13 warm open water dives under his belt. Shortly after his arrival he became interested in underwater cave exploration, and began learning cave diving with the Welsh cave diving instructor Martyn Farr in 2007.\n\nHe began diving in the Hell Complex, part of the Green Holes group of underwater sea caves off Doolin, County Clare and initially used the area as a training ground for his newly acquired skills. He soon began exploring and mapping undiscovered passage, and by July 2007 he had made his first significant breakthrough, making the first traverse between Hell's Kitchen and Robertson's Cave in the nearby Reef Complex.\n\nKozłowski was responsible for many extensions to cave systems in both Ireland and Spain, the most notable being the extension to the Marble Arch Caves system. In 2009 and 2010 diving connections were made to nearby cave systems by Kozłowski, firstly to Prod's Pot – Cascades Rising, doubling the total length of the system from 4.5 to , and subsequently to newly established Monastir Sink – Upper Cradle system, extending the wider system further to . The discoveries make this the longest cave in Northern Ireland.\n\nHe holds the record for the deepest cave dive in Great Britain and Ireland at a depth of in Pollatoomary, near Killavally, County Mayo, Ireland. Perhaps his most notable achievement was the exploration of over of underwater passage in the notoriously unforgiving cave passages of the Gort region, including the discovery and exploration of Pollindre, 1 km in length and the third deepest sump in Great Britain and Ireland at .\n\nIn March 2011 Kozłowski received the Kolosy award for cave exploration at the annual Polish travelling and outdoor sports conference, held in Gdynia.\n\nKozłowski was a passionate advocate of exploration and diving; his blog recounted in detail his underwater adventures. His latest discoveries filled the pages of the journal \"Irish Speleology\" and \"Descent\" magazine.\n\nHe was also an engaging public speaker; his January 2011 talk at NUIG/GMIT Sub Aqua Club was well received.\n\nKozłowski died during a cave dive in the Gort lowlands on 5 September 2011. His body was successfully recovered on 10 September 2011 after an extensive recovery effort. The cave in which he died is called Pollonora 10 in the townland of Kiltartan, Gort, County Galway, Ireland, and his body was found at the known limits of the cave, at a depth of and approximately from the entrance.\n\nOn 15 September, Kozłowski was buried in the nearby cemetery after a service at St Attracta's church, attended by gardaí, divers and members of the Irish Cave Rescue Organisation, friends, family and members of the local community.\n\nIn August 2012, in recognition of his contribution to Irish speleology, the Speleological Union of Ireland set up the Kozłowski Fund to support original cave exploration in Ireland.\n\nIn 2013, a fundraising page was set up in order to pay for a headstone for Kozłowski 's grave in Kiltartan, and for a plaque to be erected at the entrance to Pollonora 10. The plaque and headstone were engraved by a Gort-based stonemason and on 6 September 2014, marking the third anniversary of Kozłowski's death, the gravestone and plaque were unveiled to a gathering of friends and family.\n\n"}
{"id": "2537522", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2537522", "title": "Biologist", "text": "Biologist\n\nA biologist is a scientist who has specialized knowledge in the field of biology, the scientific study of life. Biologists involved in fundamental research attempt to explore and further explain the underlying mechanisms that govern the functioning of living matter. Biologists involved in applied research attempt to develop or improve more specific processes and understanding, in fields such as medicine and industry.\n\nBiologists are interested in understanding the underlying mechanisms that govern the functioning of living matter as well as the complex properties that emerge from the biophysical, biochemical, cellular and systemic interactions of living systems. Biologists conduct research using the scientific method to test the validity of a theory in a rational, unbiased and reproducible manner. This consists of hypothesis formation, experimentation and data analysis to establish the validity or invalidity of a scientific theory.\n\nThere are different types of biologists. Theoretical biologists use mathematical methods and develop models to understand phenomena and ideally predict future experimental results, while experimental biologists conceive experiments to test those predictions. Some biologists work on microorganisms, while others study multicellular organisms (including humans). Some investigate the nano or micro-scale, others emergent properties such as ecological interactions or cognition. There is much overlap between different fields of biology (e.g. zoology, microbiology, genetics and evolutionary biology) and due to the interdisciplinary nature of the field it is often difficult to classify a life scientist as only one of them. Many biological scientists work in research and development. Some conduct fundamental research to advance human knowledge of life. Furthermore, applied biological research often aids the development of solutions to problems in areas such as human health and the natural environment. Biological scientists mostly work in government, university, and private industry laboratories. \n\nBiologists who work in basic research formulates theories and devise experiments to advance human knowledge on life including topics such as evolution, biochemistry, molecular biology, neuroscience and cell biology.\n\nBiological scientists who work in applied research use instead the accomplishments gained by basic research to further knowledge in particular fields or applications. For example, this applied research may be used to develop new pharmaceutical drugs, treatments and medical diagnostic tests. Biological scientists conducting applied research and product development in private industry may be required to describe their research plans or results to non-scientists who are in a position to veto or approve their ideas. These scientists must consider the business effects of their work.\n\nWhile theoretical biologists usually works in \"dry\" labs, formulating mathematical models and running computer simulations, some experimental biologists conduct laboratory experiments involving animals, plants, microorganisms or biomolecules. However, a small part of experimental biological research also occurs outside the laboratory and may involve natural observation rather than experimentation. For example, a botanist may investigate the plant species present in a particular environment, while an ecologist might study how a forest area recovers after a fire.\n\nSwift advances in knowledge of genetics and organic molecules spurred growth in the field of biotechnology, transforming the industries in which biological scientists work. Biological scientists can now manipulate the genetic material of animals and plants, attempting to make organisms (including humans) more productive or resistant to disease. Basic and applied research on biotechnological processes, such as recombining DNA, has led to the production of important substances, including human insulin and growth hormone. Many other substances not previously available in large quantities are now produced by biotechnological means. Some of these substances are useful in treating diseases.\n\nThose working on various genome (chromosomes with their associated genes) projects isolate genes and determine their function. This work continues to lead to the discovery of genes associated with specific diseases and inherited health risks, such as sickle cell anemia. Advances in biotechnology have created research opportunities in almost all areas of biology, with commercial applications in areas such as medicine, agriculture, and environmental remediation.\n\nMost biological scientists specialize in the study of a certain type of organism or in a specific activity, although recent advances have blurred some traditional classifications.\n\nBiological scientists are not usually exposed to unsafe or unhealthy conditions. Those who work with dangerous organisms or toxic substances in the laboratory must follow strict safety procedures to avoid contamination. Many biological scientists, such as botanists, ecologists, and zoologists, conduct field studies that involve strenuous physical activity and primitive living conditions. Biological scientists in the field may work in warm or cold climates, in all kinds of weather.\n\nMarine biologists encounter a variety of working conditions. Some work in laboratories; others work on research ships, and those who work underwater must practice safe diving while working around sharp coral reefs and hazardous marine life. Although some marine biologists obtain their specimens from the sea, many still spend a good deal of their time in laboratories and offices, conducting tests, running experiments, recording results, and compiling data.\n\nMany biological scientists depend on grant money to fund their research. They may be under pressure to meet deadlines and to conform to rigid grant-writing specifications when preparing proposals to seek new or extended funding.\n\nBiological scientists typically work regular hours. While the 40-hour workweek is common, longer hours are not uncommon. Researchers may be required to work odd hours in laboratories or other locations (especially while in the field), depending on the nature of their research.\n\nThe highest honor awarded to biologists is the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine, awarded since 1901, by the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences. Another significant award is the Crafoord Prize in Biosciences; established in 1980.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31101423", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31101423", "title": "CI1 fossils", "text": "CI1 fossils\n\nCI1 fossils refer to alleged morphological evidence of microfossils found in five CI1 carbonaceous chondrite meteorite fall: Alais, Orgueil, Ivuna, Tonk and Revelstoke. The research was published in March 2011 in the fringe \"Journal of Cosmology\" by Richard B. Hoover, an engineer. However, NASA distanced itself from Hoover's claim and his lack of expert peer-reviews.\n\nHoover's team used Environmental (ESEM) and Field Emission Scanning Electron Microscopy (FESEM) to analyze the meteorite samples, studying internal surfaces. Hoover also produced electron micrographs which he believes resemble the shape of trichomic cyanobacteria and other trichomic prokaryotes such as the filamentous sulfur bacteria. For comparison, Hoover compared the samples to those of terrestrial minerals and biological materials. Hoover concludes from these results that the CI1 fossils are indigenous to the samples.\n\nThe claims were initially submitted to the \"International Journal of Astrobiology\", which rejected the paper, but were eventually published by the fringe \"Journal of Cosmology\". NASA distanced itself from Hoover's claims, and the claims were debunked soon after publication.\n\n"}
{"id": "2506529", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2506529", "title": "Cellular neural network", "text": "Cellular neural network\n\nIn computer science and machine learning, cellular neural networks (CNN) (or cellular nonlinear networks (CNN)) are a parallel computing paradigm similar to neural networks, with the difference that communication is allowed between neighbouring units only. Typical applications include image processing, analyzing 3D surfaces, solving partial differential equations, reducing non-visual problems to geometric maps, modelling biological vision and other sensory-motor organs.\n\nDue to their number and variety of architectures, it is difficult to give a precise definition for a CNN processor. From an architecture standpoint, CNN processors are a system of finite, fixed-number, fixed-location, fixed-topology, locally interconnected, multiple-input, single-output, nonlinear processing units. The nonlinear processing units are often referred to as neurons or cells. Mathematically, each cell can be modeled as a dissipative, nonlinear dynamical system where information is encoded via its initial state, inputs and variables used to define its behavior. Dynamics are usually continuous, as in the case of Continuous-Time CNN (CT-CNN) processors, but can be discrete, as in the case of Discrete-Time CNN (DT-CNN) processors. Each cell has one output, by which it communicates its state with both other cells and external devices. Output is typically real-valued, but can be complex or even quaternion, i.e. a Multi-Valued CNN (MV-CNN). In most CNN processors, processing units are identical, but there are applications that require non-identical units, which are called Non-Uniform Processor CNN (NUP-CNN) processors, and consist of different types of cells. In the original Chua-Yang CNN (CY-CNN) processor, the state of the cell was a weighted sum of the inputs and the output was a piecewise linear function. However, like the original perceptron-based neural networks, the functions it could perform were limited: specifically, it was incapable of modeling non-linear functions, such as XOR. More complex functions are realizable via Non-Linear CNN (NL-CNN) processors.\n\nCells are defined in a normed space, commonly a two-dimensional Euclidean geometry, like a grid. The cells are not limited to two-dimensional spaces however; they can be defined in an arbitrary number of dimensions and can be square, triangle, hexagonal, or any other spatially invariant arrangement. Topologically, cells can be arranged on an infinite plane or on a toroidal space. Cell interconnect is local, meaning that all connections between cells are within a specified radius (with distance measured topologically). Connections can also be time-delayed to allow for processing in the temporal domain.\n\nMost CNN architectures have cells with the same relative interconnects, but there are applications that require a spatially variant topology, i.e. Multiple-Neighborhood-Size CNN (MNS-CNN) processors. Also, Multiple-Layer CNN (ML-CNN) processors, where all cells on the same layer are identical, can be used to extend the capability of CNN processors.\n\nThe definition of a system is a collection of independent, interacting entities forming an integrated whole, whose behavior is distinct and qualitatively greater than its entities. Although connections are local, information exchange can happen globally through diffusion. In this sense, CNN processors are systems because their dynamics are derived from the interaction between the processing units and not within processing units. As a result, they exhibit emergent and collective behavior. Mathematically, the relationship between a cell and its neighbors, located within an area of influence, can be defined by a coupling law, and this is what primarily determines the behavior of the processor. When the coupling laws are modeled by fuzzy logic, it is a fuzzy CNN\n. When these laws are modeled by computational verb logic, it becomes a computational verb CNN (verb CNN)\n. Both fuzzy and verb CNNs are useful for modelling social networks when the local couplings are achieved by linguistic terms.\n\nThe idea of CNN processors was introduced by Leon Chua and Lin Yang’s two-part, 1988 article, \"Cellular Neural Networks: Theory\" and \"Cellular Neural Networks: Applications\" in IEEE Transactions on Circuits and Systems. In these articles, Chua and Yang outline the underlying mathematics behind CNN processors. They use this mathematical model to demonstrate, for a specific CNN implementation, that if the inputs are static, the processing units will converge, and can be used to perform useful calculations. They then suggest one of the first applications of CNN processors: image processing and pattern recognition (which is still the largest application to date). Leon Chua is still active in CNN research and publishes many of his articles in the International Journal of Bifurcation and Chaos, of which he is an editor. Both IEEE Transactions on Circuits and Systems and the International Journal of Bifurcation also contain a variety of useful articles on CNN processors authored by other knowledgeable researchers. The former tends to focus on new CNN architectures and the latter more on the dynamical aspects of CNN processors.\n\nAnother key article, Tamas Roska and Leon Chua’s 1993 article \"The CNN Universal Machine: An Analogic Array Computer\", introduced the first algorithmically programmable analog CNN processor to the engineering research community. The multi-national effort was funded by the Office of Naval Research, the National Science Foundation, and the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, and researched by the Hungarian Academy of Sciences and the University of California. This article proved that CNN processors were producible and provided researchers a physical platform to test their CNN theories. After this article, companies started to invest into larger, more capable processors, based on the same basic architecture as the CNN Universal Processor. Tamas Roska is another key contributor to CNNs. His name is often associated with biologically inspired information processing platforms and algorithms, and he has published numerous key articles and has been involved with companies and research institutions developing CNN technology.\n\nThere are several overviews of CNN processors in published literature. One of the better references is a paper, \"Cellular Neural Networks: A Review\" written for Neural Nets WIRN Vietri 1993, by Valerio Cimagalli and Marco Balsi. The paper provides definitions, CNN types, dynamics, implementations, and applications in a relatively small, readable document. There is also a book, \"Cellular Neural Networks and Visual Computing Foundations and Applications\", written by Leon Chua and Tamas Roska, which provides examples and exercises to help illustrates points in a manner uncommon for papers and journal articles. The book covers many different aspects of CNN processors and can serve as a textbook for a Masters or Ph.D. course. The two references are considered invaluable since they manage to organize the vast amount of CNN literature into a coherent framework.\n\nThe best place for CNN literature is from the proceedings of \"The International Workshop on Cellular Neural Networks and Their Applications\". The proceedings are available online, via IEEE Xplore, for conferences held in 1990, 1992, 1994, 1996, 1998, 2000, 2002, 2005 and 2006. There is also a workshop being held on July 14–16 in Santiago de Composetela, Spain. Topics include theory, design, applications, algorithms, physical implementations and programming/training methods. For an understanding of the analog semiconductor based CNN technology, AnaLogic Computers has their product line, in addition to the published articles available on their homepage and their publication list. They also have information on other CNN technologies such as optical computing. Many of the commonly used functions have already been implemented using CNN processors. A good reference point for some of these can be found in image processing libraries for CNN based visual computers such as Analogic’s CNN-based systems.\n\nCNN processors could be thought of as a hybrid between ANN and CA (Continuous Automata). The processing units of CNN and NN are similar. In both cases, the processor units are multi-input, dynamical systems, and the behavior of the overall systems is driven primarily through the weights of the processing unit’s linear interconnect. The main discriminator is that in CNN processors, connections are made locally, whereas in ANN, connections are global. For example, neurons in one layer are fully connected to another layer in a feed-forward NN and all the neurons are fully interconnected in Hopfield networks. In ANNs, the weights of interconnections contain information on the processing system’s previous state or feedback, but in CNN processors, the weights are used to determine the dynamics of the system. Furthermore, due to the high interconnectivity of ANNs, they tend not exploit locality in either the data set or the processing and as a result, they usually are highly redundant systems that allow for robust, fault-tolerant behavior without catastrophic errors. A cross between an ANN and a CNN processor is a Ratio Memory CNN (RMCNN). In RMCNN processors, the cell interconnect is local and topologically invariant, but the weights are used to store previous states and not to control dynamics. The weights of the cells are modified during some learning state creating long-term memory.\n\nThe topology and dynamics of CNN processors closely resembles that of CA. Like most CNN processors, CA consists of a fixed-number of identical processors that are spatially discrete and topologically uniform. The difference is that most CNN processors are continuous-valued whereas CA have discrete-values. Furthermore, the CNN processor's cell behavior is defined via some non-linear function whereas CA processor cells are defined by some state machine. However, there are some exceptions. Continuous Valued Cellular Automata or Continuous Automata are CA with continuous resolution. Depending on how a given Continuous Automata is specified, it can also be a CNN. There are also Continuous Spatial Automata, which consist of an infinite number of spatially continuous, continuous-valued automata. There is considerable work being performed in this field since continuous spaces are easier to mathematically model than discrete spaces, thus allowing a more quantitative approach as opposed to an empirical approach taken by some researchers of cellular automata. Continuous Spatial Automata processors can be physically realized though an unconventional information processing platform such as a chemical computer. Furthermore, it is conceivable that large CNN processors (in terms of the resolution of the input and output) can be modeled as a Continuous Spatial Automata.\n\nThe dynamical behaviors of CNN processors can be expressed mathematically as a series of ordinary differential equations, where each equation represents the state of an individual processing unit. The behavior of the entire CNN processor is defined by its initial conditions, the inputs, the cell interconnect (topology and weights), and the cells themselves. One possible use of CNN processors is to generate and respond to signals of specific dynamical properties. For example, CNN processors have been used to generate multi-scroll chaos, synchronize with chaotic systems, and exhibit multi-level hysterisis. CNN processors are designed specifically to solve local, low-level, processor intensive problems expressed as a function of space and time. For example, CNN processors can be used to implement high-pass and low-pass filters and morphological operators. They can also be used to approximate a wide range of Partial Differential Equations (PDE) such as heat dissipation and wave propagation.\n\nCNN processors can be used as Reaction-Diffusion (RD) processors. RD processors are spatially invariant, topologically invariant, analog, parallel processors characterized by reactions, where two agents can combine to create a third agent, and diffusions, the spreading of agents. RD processors are typically implemented through chemicals in a Petri dish (processor), light (input), and a camera (output) however RD processors can also be implemented through a multilayer CNN processor. RD processors can be used to create Voronoi diagrams and perform skeletonisation. The main difference between the chemical implementation and the CNN implementation is that CNN implementations are considerably faster than their chemical counterparts and chemical processors are spatially continuous whereas the CNN processors are spatially discrete. The most researched RD processor, Belousov-Zhabotinsky (BZ) processors, has already been simulated using a four-layer CNN processors and has been implemented in a semiconductor.\n\nLike CA, computations can be performed through the generation and propagation of signals that either grow or change over time. Computations can occur within a signal or can occur through the interaction between signals. One type of processing, which uses signals and is gaining momentum is wave processing, which involves the generation, expanding, and eventual collision of waves. Wave processing can be used to measure distances and find optimal paths. Computations can also occur through particles, gliders, solutions, and filterons localized structures that maintain their shape and velocity. Given how these structures interact/collide with each other and with static signals, they can be used to store information as states and implement different Boolean functions. Computations can also occur between complex, potentially growing or evolving localized behavior through worms, ladders, and pixel-snakes. In addition to storing states and performing Boolean functions, these structures can interact, create, and destroy static structures.\n\nAlthough CNN processors are primarily intended for analog calculations, certain types of CNN processors can implement any Boolean function, allowing simulating CA. Since some CA are Universal Turing machines (UTM), capable of simulating any algorithm can be performed on processors based on the von Neumann architecture, that makes this type of CNN processors, universal CNN, a UTM. One CNN architecture consists of an additional layer, similar to the ANN solution to the problem stated by Marvin Minsky years ago. CNN processors have resulted in the simplest realization of Conway’s Game of Life and Wolfram’s Rule 110, the simplest known universal Turing Machine. This unique, dynamical representation of an old systems, allows researchers to apply techniques and hardware developed for CNN to better understand important CA. Furthermore, the continuous state space of CNN processors, with slight modifications that have no equivalent in Cellular Automata, creates emergent behavior never seen before.\n\nAny information processing platform that allows the construction of arbitrary Boolean functions is called universal, and as result, this class CNN processors are commonly referred to as universal CNN processors. The original CNN processors can only perform linearly separable Boolean functions. This is essentially the same problem Marvin Minsky introduced with respect to the perceptions of the first neural networks In either case, by translating functions from digital logic or look-up table domains into the CNN domain, some functions can be considerably simplified. For example, the nine-bit, odd parity generation logic, which is typically implemented by eight nested exclusive-or gates, can also be represented by a sum function and four nested absolute value functions. Not only is there a reduction in the function complexity, but the CNN implementation parameters can be represented in the continuous, real-number domain.\n\nThere are two methods by which to select a CNN processor along with a template or weights. The first is by synthesis, which involves determine the coefficients offline. This can be done by leveraging off previous work, i.e. libraries, papers, and articles, or by mathematically deriving co that best suits the problem. The other is through training the processor. Researchers have used back-propagation and genetic algorithms to learn and perform functions. Back-propagation algorithms tend to be faster, but genetic algorithms are useful because they provide a mechanism to find a solution in a discontinuous, noisy search space.\n\nAn information processing platform remains nothing more than an intellectual exercise unless it can be implemented in hardware and integrated into a system. Although processors based on billiard balls can be interesting, unless their implementation provides advantages for a system, the only purpose they serve is as a teaching device. CNN processors have been implemented using current technology and there are plans to implement CNN processors into future technologies. They include the necessary interfaces for programming and interfacing, and have been implemented in a variety of systems. What follows is a cursory examination of the different types of CNN processors available today, their advantages and disadvantages, and the future roadmap for CNN processors.\n\nCNN processors have been implemented and are currently available as semiconductors and there are plans to migrate CNN processors to emerging technologies in the future. Semiconductor-based CNN processors can be segmented into analog CNN processors, digital CNN processors, and CNN processors emulated using digital processors. Analog CNN processors were the first to be developed. Analog computers were fairly common during the 1950 and 1960s, but they gradually were replaced by digital computers the 1970s. Analog processors were considerably faster in certain applications such as optimizing differential equations and modeling nonlinearities, but the reason why analog computing lost favor was the lack of precision and the difficulty to configure an analog computer to solve a complex equation. Analog CNN processors share some of the same advantages as their predecessors, specifically speed. The first analog CNN processors were able to perform real-time ultra-high frame-rate (>10,000 frame/s) processing unachievable by digital processors. The analog implementation of CNN processors requires less area and consumes less power than their digital counterparts. Although the accuracy of analog CNN processors does not compare to their digital counterparts, for many applications, noise and process variances are small enough not to perceptually affect the image quality.\n\nThe first algorithmically programmable, analog CNN processor was created in 1993. It was named the CNN Universal Processor because its internal controller allowed multiple templates to be performed on the same data set, thus simulating multiple layers and allowing for universal computation. Included in the design was a single layer 8x8 CCN, interfaces, analog memory, switching logic, and software. The processor was developed in order to determine CNN processor producibility and utility. The CNN concept proved promising and by 2000, there were at least six organizations designing algorithmically programmable, analog CNN processors. This is when AnaFocus, a mixed-signal semiconductor company that emerged from research at The University of Seville, introduced their ACE prototype CNN processor product line. Their first ACE processor contained 20x20 B/W processor units; their next ACE processor provided 48x48 grayscale processor units, and their latest ACE processor contains 128x128 grayscale processor units. Over time, not only did the number of processing elements increase, but their speed improved, the number of functions they can perform increased, and a seamless detector interface was integrated into the silicon (yielding considerably improved interface). The ability to embed the detector interface into the CNN processor allows for real-time interaction between the sensing and processing. AnaFocus has a multilayer CASE prototype CNN processors line. The latest CASE processor is a three layer 32x32 CNN processor. Their work in CNN processors is currently culminating in their soon-to-be-released, commercially available Eye-RIS product line that consists of all the processors, co-processors, software development kits, and support needed to program and integrate an analog processor into a system.\n\nAnaFocus is working with AnaLogic Computers, to include their CNN processors into visual systems. Founded in 2000, by many of the same researchers behind the first algorithmically programmable CNN Universal Processor, AnaLogic Computers mission is to commercialize high-speed, biologically inspired systems based on CNN processors. In 2003, AnaLogic Computers developed a PCI-X visual processor board that included the ACE 4K processor, with a Texas Instrument DIP module and a high-speed frame-grabber. This allowed CNN processing to be easily included in a desktop computer, considerably improving the usability and capability of CNN analog processors. In 2006, AnaLogic Computers developed their Bi-I Ultra High Speed Smart Camera product line, which includes the ACE 4K processor in their high-end models. The product that their development team is now pursuing is the Bionic Eyeglass. The Bionic Eyeglass is a dual-camera, wearable platform, based on the Bi-I Ultra High Speed Smart Camera, designed to provide assistance to blind people. Some of the functions that the Bionic Eyeglass system will perform is route number recognition and color processing.\n\nSome researchers are developed their own custom analog CNN processors. For example, an analog CNN processor was developed from a research team from University degli Studi di Catania, in order to generate gaits for a hexapod robot. Researchers from National Chiao Tung University designed a RM-CNN processor to learn more about pattern learning & recognition and researchers from the National Lien-Ho Institute of Technology developed a Min-Max CNN (MMCNN) processor to learn more about CNN dynamics. Given the diversity of CNN processors and the momentum that CNN research has gained, it is plausible that such analog CNN development efforts will be fairly common in the near future.\n\nDespite their speed and low power consumption, there are some significant drawbacks to analog CNN processors. First, analog CNN processors can potentially create erroneous results due to environment and process variation. In most applications, these errors are not noticeable, but there are situations where minor deviations can result in catastrophic system failures. For example, in chaotic communication, process variation will change the trajectory of a given system in phase space, resulting in a lost of synchronicity/stability. Due to the severity of the problem, there is considerable research being performed to ameliorate the problem. Some researchers are optimizing templates to accommodate greater variation. Other researchers are improving the semiconductor process to more closely match theoretical CNN performance. Other researchers are investigating different, potentially more robust CNN architectures. Lastly, researchers are developing methods to tune templates to target a specific chip and operating conditions. In other words, the templates are being optimized to match the information processing platform. Not only does process variation limit what can be done with current analog CNN processors, it is also a barrier for creating more complex processing units. Unless this process variation is resolved, ideas such as nested processing units, non-linear inputs, etc. cannot be implemented in a real-time analog CNN processor. Also, the semiconductor \"real estate\" for processing units limits the size of CNN processors. Currently the largest AnaVision CNN-based vision processor consists of a 4K detector, which is significantly less than the megapixel detectors found in affordable, consumer cameras. Unfortunately, feature size reductions, as predicted by Moore’s Law, will only result in minor improvements. For this reason, alternate technologies such as Resonant Tunneling Diodes and Neuron-Bipolar Junction Transistors are being explored. Also, the architecture of CNN processors is being reevaluated. For example, Star-CNN processors, where one analog multiplier is time-shared between multiple processor units, have been proposed and are expected to result in processor unit reduction size of eighty percent.\n\nAlthough not nearly as fast and energy efficient, digital CNN processors do not share the problems of process variation and feature size of their analog counterparts. This allows digital CNN processors to include nested processor units, non-linearities, etc. In addition, digital CNN are more flexible, cost less and are easier to integrate. The most common implementation of digital CNN processors uses an FPGA. Eutecus, founded in 2002 and operating in Berkeley, provides intellectual property that can be synthesized into an Altera FPGA. Their digital 320x280, FPGA-based CNN processors run at 30 frame/s and there are plans to make a fast digital ASIC. Eustecus is a strategic partner of AnaLogic computers, and their FPGA designs can be found in several of AnaLogic’s products. Eutecus is also developing software libraries to perform tasks including but not limited to video analytics for the video security market, feature classification, multi-target tracking, signal and image processing and flow processing. Many of these routines are derived using CNN-like processing. For those wanting to perform CNN simulations for prototyping, low-speed applications, or research, there are several options. First, there are precise CNN emulation software packages like SCNN 2000. If the speed is prohibitive, there are mathematical techniques, such as Jacobi’s Iterative Method or Forward-Backward Recursions that can be used to derive the steady state solution of a CNN processor. Said techniques can be performed by any mathematics tool, e.g. Matlab. Lastly, digital CNN processors can be emulated on highly parallel, application-specific processors, such as graphics processors. Implementing neural networks using graphics processors is an area of exploration for the research community.\n\nResearchers are also perusing alternate technologies for CNN processors. Although current CNN processors circumvent some of the problems associated with their digital counterparts, they do share some of the same long-term problems common to all semiconductor-based processors. These include, but are not limited to, speed, reliability, power-consumption, etc. AnaLogic Computers, is developing optical CNN processors, which combine optics, lasers, and biological and holographic memories. What initially was technology exploration resulted in a 500x500 CNN processor able to perform 300 giga-operations per second. Another promising technology for CNN processors is nanotechnology. One nanotechnology concept being investigated is using single electron tunneling junctions, which can be made into single-electron or high-current transistors, to create McCulloch-Pitts CNN processing units. In summary, CNN processors have been implemented and provide value to their users. They have been able to effectively leverage the advantages and address some of the disadvantages associated with their underling technology, i.e. semiconductors. Researchers are also transitioning CNN processors into emerging technologies. Therefore, if the CNN architecture is suited for a specific information processing system, there are processors available for purchase (as there will be for the foreseeable future).\n\nThe philosophy, interests, and methodologies of CNN researchers are varied. Due to the potential of the CNN architecture, this platform has attracted people from a variety of backgrounds and disciplines. Some are exploring practical implementations of CNN processors, others are using CNN processors to model physical phenomena, and there are even researchers exploring theoretical mathematical, computational, and philosophical ideas through CNN processors. Some applications are engineering related, where some known, understood behavior of CNN processors is exploited to perform a specific task, and some are scientific, where CNN processors are used to explore new and different phenomenon. CNN processors are versatile platforms that are being used for a variety of applications.\n\nCNN processors were designed to perform image processing; specifically, the original application of CNN processors was to perform real-time ultra-high frame-rate (>10,000 frame/s) processing unachievable by digital processors needed for applications like particle detection in jet engine fluids and spark-plug detection. Currently, CNN processors can achieve up to 50,000 frames per second, and for certain applications such as missile tracking, flash detection, and spark-plug diagnostics these microprocessors have outperformed a conventional supercomputer. CNN processors lend themselves to local, low-level, processor intensive operations and have been used in feature extraction, level and gain adjustments, color constancy detection, contrast enhancement, deconvolution, image compression, motion estimation, image encoding, image decoding, image segmentation, orientation preference maps, pattern learning/recognition, multi-target tracking, image stabilization, resolution enhancement, image deformations and mapping, image inpainting, optical flow, contouring, moving object detection, axis of symmetry detection, and image fusion.\n\nDue to their processing capabilities and flexibility, CNN processors have been used & prototyped for novel field applications such as flame analysis for monitoring combustion at a waste incinerator, mine-detection using infrared imagery, calorimeter cluster peak for high energy physics, anomaly detection in potential field maps for geophysics, laser dot detection, metal inspection for detecting manufacturing defects, and seismic horizon picking. They have also been used to perform biometric functions such as fingerprint recognition, vein feature extraction, face tracking, and generating visual stimuli via emergent patterns to gauge perceptual resonances. CNN processors have been used for medical and biological research in performing automated nucleated cell counting for detecting hyperplasia, segment images into anatomically and pathologically meaningful regions, measure and quantify cardiac function, measure the timing of neurons, and detect brain abnormalities that would lead to seizures. One potential future application of CNN microprocessors is to combine them with DNA microarrays to allow for a near-real time DNA analysis of hundreds of thousands of different DNA sequences. Currently, the major bottleneck of DNA microarray analysis is the amount of time needed to process data in the form of images, and using a CNN microprocessor, researchers have reduced the amount of time needed to perform this calculation to 7ms.\n\nCNN processors have also been used to generate and analyze patterns and textures. One motivation was to use CNN processors to understand pattern generation in natural systems. They were used to generate Turing patterns in order to understand the situations in which they form, the different types of patterns which can emerge, and the presence of defects or asymmetries. Also, CNN processors were used to approximate pattern generation systems that create stationary fronts, spatio-temporal patterns oscillating in time, hysteresis, memory, and heterogeneity. Furthermore, pattern generation was used to aid high-performance image generation and compression via real-time generation of stochastic and coarse-grained biological patterns, texture boundary detection, and pattern and texture recognition and classification.\n\nThere is an ongoing effort to incorporate CNN processors into sensory-computing-actuating machines as part of the emerging field of Cellular Machines. The basic premise is to create an integrated system that uses CNN processors for the sensory signal-processing and potentially the decision-making and control. The reason is that CNN processors can provide a low power, small size, and eventually low-cost computing and actuating system suited for Cellular Machines. These Cellular Machines will eventually create a Sensor-Actuator Network (SAN), a type of Mobile Ad Hoc Networks (MANET) which can be used for military intelligence gathering, surveillance of inhospitable environments, maintenance of large areas, planetary exploration, etc.\n\nCNN processors have been proven versatile enough for some control functions. They have been used to optimize function via a genetic algorithm, to measure distances, to perform optimal path-finding in a complex, dynamic environment, and theoretically can be used to learn and associate complex stimuli. They have also been used to create antonymous gaits and low-level motors for robotic nematodes, spiders, and lamprey gaits using a Central Pattern Generator (CPG). They were able to function using only feedback from the environment, allowing for a robust, flexible, biologically inspired robot motor system. CNN-based systems were able to operate in different environments and still function if some of the processing units are disabled.\n\nThe variety of dynamical behavior seen in CNN processors make them intriguing for communication systems. Chaotic communications using CNN processors is being researched due to their potential low power consumption, robustness and spread spectrum features. The premise behind chaotic communication is to use a chaotic signal for the carrier wave and to use chaotic phase synchronization to reconstruct the original message. CNN processors can be used on both the transmitter and receiver end to encode and decode a given message. They can also be used for data encryption and decryption, source authentication through watermarking, detecting of complex patterns in spectrogram images (sound processing), and transient spectral signals detection.\n\nCNN processors are neuromorphic processors, meaning that they emulate certain aspects of biological neural networks. The original CNN processors were based on mammalian retinas, which consist of a layer of photodetectors connected to several layers of locally coupled neurons. This makes CNN processors part of an interdisciplinary research area whose goal is to design systems that leverage knowledge and ideas from neuroscience and contribute back via real-world validation of theories. CNN processors have implemented a real-time system that replicates mammalian retinas, validating that the original CNN architecture chosen modeled the correct aspects of the biological neural networks used to perform the task in mammalian life. However, CNN processors are not limited to verifying biological neural networks associated with vision processing; they have been used to simulate dynamic activity seen in mammalian neural networks found in the olfactory bulb and locust antennal lobe, responsible for pre-processing sensory information to detect differences in repeating patterns.\n\nCNN processors are being used to understand systems that can be modeled using simple, coupled units, such as living cells, biological networks, physiological systems, and ecosystems. The CNN architecture captures some of the dynamics often seen in nature and is simple enough to analyze and conduct experiments. They are also being used for stochastic simulation techniques, which allow scientists to explore spin problems, population dynamics, lattice-based gas models, percolation, and other phenomena. Other simulation applications include heat transfer, mechanical vibrating systems, protein production, Josephson Transmission Line (JTL) problems, seismic wave propagation, and geothermal structures. Instances of 3D (Three Dimensional) CNN have been used to prove known complex shapes are emergent phenomena in complex systems, establishing a link between art, dynamical systems and VLSI technology. CNN processors have been used to research a variety of mathematical concepts, such as researching non-equilibrium systems, constructing non-linear systems of arbitrary complexity using a collection of simple, well-understood dynamic systems, studying emergent chaotic dynamics, generating chaotic signals, and in general discovering new dynamic behavior. They are often used in researching systemics, a trandisiplinary, scientific field that studies natural systems. The goal of systemics researchers is to develop a conceptual and mathematical framework necessary to analyze, model, and understand systems, including, but not limited to, atomic, mechanical, molecular, chemical, biological, ecological, social and economic systems. Topics explored are emergence, collective behavior, local activity and its impact on global behavior, and quantifying the complexity of an approximately spatial and topologically invariant system . Although another measure of complexity may not arouse enthusiasm (Seth Lloyd, a professor from Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT), has identified 32 different definitions of complexity), it can potentially be mathematically advantageous when analyzing systems such as economic and social systems.\n\nand its Computational Complexity\", Int’l Workshop on Cellular Neural Networks and Their Applications, 2004.\n"}
{"id": "7368765", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7368765", "title": "Chick Morrison", "text": "Chick Morrison\n\nNot to be confused with Atlas Shrugged character, Chick Morrison.\nCharles Pacific Morrison (1878–1924), an American silent film actor, was born April 3, 1878 in Morrison, Colorado. The grandson of pioneer town founder George Morrison, he was known as \"Chick\" to many who knew him, a nickname conjunction of his first and middle names. A keen horse rider, he often appeared in riding contests and rodeos throughout the American west. At Morrison he trained horses for trick and fancy riding as well as break in wild horses. In 1909 Essanay Studios brought one such horse to Morrison to film some of their famous \"Broncho Billy\" series of 2-reel thrillers. Morrison got the director's attention through his expert horsemanship, daring maneuvers, as well as his control over the animals, and was used as a double for the lead actor in some of the more dangerous scenes.\n\nMorrison left Colorado that year for California. From that point onward he appeared in feature films, rapidly growing to prominence in the film making industry. Soon he played leads, and his success and experience as an animal trainer, especially with horses, put him in great demand for some of the largest pictures made in his era. Morrison appeared in about 45 films, including ones with Charlotte Burton in films such as \"Rose of San Juan\", \"Quicksands\" and \"Calamity Anne, Heroine\". During his career he worked for Hal Roach Studios, the Broncho Billy Anderson and Selig Polyscope Company, and Universal Studios.\n\nChick's career met a tragic end on June 20, 1924. That day while filming at Hal Roach in Los Angeles, California, Morrison's favorite horse, \"Young Steamboat\", fell backward upon him, killing him instantly at the age of 46. The horse had accompanied Morrison to Hollywood, a horse Chick had often told friends was especially wild and difficult to tame and train.\n\nChick Morrison was the older brother of another early western film actor, Pete Morrison.\n\n"}
{"id": "14435745", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14435745", "title": "Dugway sheep incident", "text": "Dugway sheep incident\n\nThe Dugway sheep incident, also known as the Skull Valley sheep kill, was a 1968 sheep kill that has been connected to United States Army chemical and biological warfare programs at Dugway Proving Ground in Utah. Six thousand sheep were killed on ranches near the base, and the popular explanation blamed Army testing of chemical weapons for the incident, though alternative explanations have been offered. A report, commissioned by Air Force Press Officer Jesse Stay and first made public in 1998, was called the \"first documented admission\" from the Army that a nerve agent killed the sheep at Skull Valley.\n\nSince its founding in 1941, much of the activity at Dugway Proving Ground has been a closely guarded secret. Activities at Dugway included aerial nerve agent testing. According to reports from \"New Scientist\", Dugway was still producing small quantities of non-infectious anthrax of a type used in the making of vaccines as late as 1998, 30 years after the United States renounced biological weapons. There were at least 1,100 other chemical tests at Dugway during the time period of the Dugway sheep incident. In total, almost of nerve agent were dispersed during open-air tests. There were also tests at Dugway with other weapons of mass destruction, including 332 open-air tests of biological weapons, 74 dirty bomb tests, and eight furnace heatings of nuclear material under open air conditions to simulate the dispersal of fallout in the case of meltdown of aeronautic nuclear reactors.\n\nIn the days preceding the Dugway sheep incident the United States Army at Dugway Proving Ground conducted at least three separate operations involving nerve agents. All three operations occurred on March 13, 1968. One involved the test firing of a chemical artillery shell, another the burning of 160 U.S. gallons (600 litres) of nerve agent in an open air pit and in the third a jet aircraft sprayed nerve agent in a target area about west of Skull Valley. It is the third event that is usually connected to the Skull Valley sheep kill.\n\nThe incident log at Dugway Proving Ground indicated that the sheep incident began with a phone call on March 17, 1968, at 12:30 a.m. The director of the University of Utah's ecological and epidemiological contact with Dugway, a Dr. Bode, phoned Keith Smart, the chief of the ecology and epidemiology branch at Dugway to report that 3,000 sheep were dead in the Skull Valley area. The initial report of the incident came to Bode from the manager of a Skull Valley livestock company. The sheep were grazing in an area about from the proving ground; total sheep deaths of 6,000–6,400 were reported over the next several days as a result of the incident. The Dugway Safety Office's attempt to count the dead sheep compiled a total of 3,843.\n\nPreviously obtained documents said a nerve agent demonstration occurred the day before the sheep deaths.\nOn March 13, 1968, an A-4 Skyhawk attack aircraft flew a test mission over the Dugway Proving Ground with chemical dispensers containing the nerve agent VX. One of the dispensers was not completely emptied during the test, and as the A-4 gained altitude after its bombing run, VX trickled out in a trail behind the aircraft, drifted into Skull Valley, north of the proving ground, and settled over a huge flock of sheep.\n\nOne explanation in the aftermath of the incident was that a chemical or biological agent had escaped from the Dugway Proving Ground. Circumstantial evidence seemed to support this assertion; the United States Army admitted to conducting open-air tests with VX in the days preceding the sheep kill. The Army intimated that a spray nozzle had malfunctioned during the test causing an aircraft to continue spraying VX as it climbed to higher altitudes. It was reported that a small amount of VX was found in the tissue of the dead sheep.\n\nOther information contradicted the initial assumptions. One contradiction to nerve agent exposure as a cause came in the symptoms of some of the sheep following the incident. Several sheep, still alive, sat unmoving on the ground. The sheep refused to eat, but exhibited normal breathing patterns and showed signs of internal hemorrhaging. Regular breathing and internal hemorrhaging are inconsistent with nerve agent exposure, and \"no other animals of any type, including cows, horses, dogs, rabbits, or birds, appeared to have suffered any ill effects, a circumstance that was hard to explain if VX had in fact caused the sheep deaths.\"\n\nThe incident affected the Army, and U.S. military policy within a year. The international infamy of the incident contributed to President Richard Nixon's decision to ban all open-air chemical weapon testing in 1969. The sheep incident was one of the events which helped contribute to a rise in public sentiment against the U.S. Army Chemical Corps during and after the Vietnam War. Ultimately, the Chemical Corps was almost disbanded as a result.\n\nFollowing the incident, the Army and other state and federal agencies compiled reports, some of which were later characterized as \"studies\". A report which remained classified until 1978 and unreleased to the public until nearly 30 years after the incident was called the \"first documented admission\" by the Army that VX killed the sheep. In 1998, Jim Woolf, reporting for \"The Salt Lake Tribune\", made the content of the report public for the first time. The report described the evidence that nerve agent was the cause of the sheep kill as \"incontrovertible\". The 1970 report, compiled by researchers at the U.S. Army's Edgewood Arsenal in Maryland, stated that VX was found in both snow and grass samples recovered from the area three weeks after the sheep incident.\n\nThe report concluded that the \"quantity of VX originally present was sufficient to account for the death of the sheep.\" Even after the report surfaced, the Army maintained that it did not accept responsibility for the incident and did not admit negligence. As late as 1997, one year before the report went public, U.S. Department of Defense officials stated that \"the reason it (the report) was never published is because it wasn't particularly revealing.\" \"Deseret News\" reported in June 1994 that Ray Peck, who owned the sheep that were killed, was outside working during the May 13, 1968, incident; members of his family developed nervous-system illnesses that were similar to those reported by people exposed to low levels of VX in lab experiments. Also, the probe showed that medical tests the Army had used to claim humans were not affected are now considered inconclusive, and the Pecks had shown other signs of low-level VX exposure.\n\nThis incident formed the basis for the 1972 motion picture \"Rage\", directed by and starring George C. Scott.\n\nThe incident inspired Stephen King's novel \"The Stand\".\n\nAuthor Richard Kadrey used the incident as inspiration for the name of a fictional metal band, Skull Valley Sheep Kill, in his Sandman Slim novel series.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36238757", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36238757", "title": "Eichler's rule", "text": "Eichler's rule\n\nParasites tend to be highly specific to their hosts, thus it seems reasonable to expect a positive co-variation between the taxonomic richness of hosts and that of their parasites. Wolfdietrich Eichler (1912–1994), a German authority in zoology and parasitology was the first to point out this relationship in 1942 and it was later dubbed 'Eichler’s rule'. It is one of the first three coevolutionary rules.\n\nRecently, Vas and his co-authors tested Eichler's rule, and concluded that exceptionally strong correlational evidence supports the positive co-variation between the species richness of avian and mammalian families and the generic richness of their parasitic lice.\n"}
{"id": "613910", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=613910", "title": "Felony murder rule", "text": "Felony murder rule\n\nThe rule of felony murder is a legal doctrine in some common law jurisdictions that broadens the crime of murder: when an offender kills (regardless of intent to kill) in the commission of a dangerous or enumerated crime (called a felony in some jurisdictions), the offender, and also the offender's accomplices or co-conspirators, may be found guilty of murder.\n\nThe concept of felony murder originates in the rule of transferred intent, which is older than the limit of legal memory. In its original form, the malicious intent inherent in the commission of any crime, however trivial, was considered to apply to any consequences of that crime, however unintended.\n\nWhile there is debate about the original scope of the rule, modern interpretations typically require that the offence be an inherently dangerous one, or one committed in an obviously dangerous manner. For this reason, the felony murder rule is often justified by its supporters as a means of deterring dangerous felonies.\n\nAccording to some commentators, the common law rule dates to the twelfth century and took its modern form in the eighteenth century. The modern conception of the felony murder rule arose in 1716, with William Hawkins' Treatise of Pleas of the Crown, during his work on English criminal law. Hawkins reasoned that malice was implicit in a crime that “necessarily tends to raise Tumults and Quarrels, and consequently cannot but be attended with the danger of personal hurt.” Thus, \"this rule should extend to killings in the course of felonies à fortiori.\"\n\nIn most jurisdictions, to qualify as an underlying offense for a felony murder charge, the underlying offense must present a foreseeable danger to life, and the link between the offense and the death must not be too remote. For example, if the recipient of a forged check has a fatal allergic reaction to the ink, most courts will not hold the forger guilty of murder, as the cause of death is too remote from the criminal act.\n\nThere are two schools of thought concerning whose actions can cause the defendant to be guilty of felony murder. Jurisdictions that hold to the \"agency theory\" admit only deaths caused by the agents of the crime. Jurisdictions that use the \"proximate cause theory\" include any death, even if caused by a bystander or the police, provided that it meets one of several proximate cause tests to determine if the chain of events between the offence and the death was short enough to have legally caused the death.\n\nThe merger doctrine excludes from the offenses that qualify as underlying offenses any felony that is presupposed by a murder charge. For example, nearly all murders involve some type of assault, but so do many cases of manslaughter. To count any death that occurred during the course of an assault as felony murder would obliterate a distinction that is carefully set by the legislature. However, merger may not apply when an assault against one person results in the death of a different person.\n\nFelony murder is typically the same grade of murder as premeditated murder and carries the same sentence as is used for premeditated murder in the jurisdiction in question.\n\nCritics of the felony murder rule argue that the rule is unjust because it requires no intent to kill. For example, 20-year-old Florida resident Ryan Holle was convicted of first-degree murder for lending his car to a friend, who used the car in a burglary during which a murder was committed. In favor of the rule, it can be argued that the rule affirms the principle of the sanctity of human life by imposing harsher penalties for crimes that destroy human life.\n\nSome commentators regard the rule of transferred intent as a legal fiction whereby the law pretends that the person who intended one wrongful act also intends all the consequences of that act, however unforeseen. Others regard it as an example of strict liability whereby a person who chooses to commit a crime is considered absolutely responsible for all possible consequences of that action. Lord Mustill regards the historical rule as a convergence of those views.\n\nThe felony murder rule has been abolished in England and Wales and in Northern Ireland. In Canada, it has been held to be unconstitutional, as breaching the principles of fundamental justice. In some jurisdictions (such as Victoria, Australia), the common law felony murder (called constructive murder) rule has been abolished, but has been replaced by a similar statutory provision in the Crimes Act 1958. Similarly, in NSW (New South Wales), common law has been overridden and the question needs only be dealt with through statutory construction and application.\n\n§ 18(1)(a) of the \"Crimes Act 1900\" (NSW) provides the \"statutory\" definition of ‘constructive murder’. The act or omission causing death must be ‘done in an attempt to commit or during or immediately after the commission, by the accused, or some accomplice with him or her, of a crime punishable by imprisonment for life or for 25 years’. The rationale is to discourage acts of felony which are dangerous to human life.\n\n\"Ryan v R\" clarifies the elements of constructive murder. The prosecution must prove beyond reasonable doubt: (1) a base offence with 25 years’ imprisonment or more; and that (2) the act causing death occurred in attempt, during, or immediately after this base offence. This means that the prosecution must prove both the actus reus and mens rea of this \"base offence\". \"R v Munro\" confirmed that the mens rea of the \"act causing death\" is not required to prove constructive murder. For example, the accused may commit an act causing death in the course of robbery or armed robbery without any intention to kill, to inflict grievous bodily harm, or with reckless indifference to human life.\n\nAs Canadian criminal law aims to maintain proportionality between the stigma and punishment attached to a conviction and the moral blameworthiness of an offender, in \"R v Martineau\" the Supreme Court of Canada held that it is a principle of fundamental justice under sections 7 and 11(d) of the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms that a conviction for murder requires proof beyond a reasonable doubt of a \"subjective foresight of death\". In so doing, the court declared sections 230 and 229(c) of the \"Criminal Code\" to be unconstitutional.\n\nS. 230 provided that a conviction for murder would lie for any killing that was \"objectively foreseeable as a result of the abominable nature of the predicate crimes...\"inter alia\"...coupled with intentional infliction of bodily harm\". This largely equated with a Canadian form of felony murder, though it is technically closer to constructive murder in other jurisdictions. Similarly, according to s. 229(c) it was sufficient for a person to do anything that he \"\"ought to know\" is likely to cause death\".\n\nNevertheless, s. 229(c), as far as it provides for a form of constructive murder in situations where \"an accused for an unlawful object did anything \"knowing\" that it was likely [on an objective standard] to cause someone's death\" is still operative, as confirmed in a 1999 appellate court decision.\n\nBill C-39 has been introduced in 2017 in order to repeal s. 230 and modify s. 229(c).\n\nLike other common law jurisdictions, Canada's Criminal Code specifically enumerates offences to account for instances where (a) person(s) is/are unintentionally killed during the commission of a crime (for example, criminal negligence causing death and impaired driving causing death). In cases where multiple deaths are caused by the same criminal act, the accused will face a separate charge for each death caused. While such charges are not considered to be murder under Canadian law, the maximum penalty for such offences is still life imprisonment - although unlike murder this is not a mandatory sentence and is only very rarely imposed. The main difference between a sentence of life imprisonment for murder and a sentence of life imprisonment for an offence such as criminal negligence causing death is that in the latter case, the offender is eligible for parole after serving seven years.\n\nThe rule was abolished in the Republic of Ireland by section 4 of the Criminal Justice Act 1964 which codified the \"mens rea\" for murder as intention to kill or seriously injure another person.\n\nThe rule was abolished in England and Wales by section 1 of the Homicide Act 1957, and in Northern Ireland by section 8 of the Criminal Justice Act (Northern Ireland) 1966; but its effect is preserved by the application of the Common Law principle of \"Joint Enterprise\". In England and Wales, the definition of murder requires only an intent to cause grievous bodily harm to the victim, rather than specific intent to kill; the effect is the same as that of the felony murder rule applied to crimes of personal violence, though not to all felonies.\n\nThere is no equivalent to the felony murder rule in Scots Law, which has also never had a specific concept of \"felonies\" in the previous style of English Law. However, the Scots equivalent of \"Joint Enterprise\" known as \"Art and Part\" also has a similar effect.\n\n, 46 states in the United States have a felony murder rule, under which felony murder is generally first-degree murder. In 24 of those states, it is a capital offense. When the government seeks to impose the death penalty on someone convicted of felony murder, the Eighth Amendment has been interpreted so as to impose additional limitations on the state power. The death penalty may not be imposed if the defendant is merely a minor participant and did not actually kill or intend to kill. However, the death penalty may be imposed if the defendant is a major participant in the underlying felony and exhibits extreme indifference to human life.\n\nMost states recognize the merger doctrine, which holds that a criminal assault cannot serve as the predicate felony for the felony murder rule.\n\nTo avoid the need for reliance upon common law interpretations of what felony conduct merges with murder, and thus what offenses do and do not qualify for felony murder, many U.S. jurisdictions explicitly list what offenses qualify in a felony murder statute. Federal law specifies additional crimes, including terrorism, kidnapping, and carjacking.\n\nThe American Law Institute's Model Penal Code does not include the felony murder rule, but allows the commission of a felony to raise a presumption of extreme indifference to the value of human life. Thus, the felony murder rule is effectively used as a rule of evidence. The Model Penal Code lists robbery, rape or forcible deviant sexual intercourse, arson, burglary, and felonious escape.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "455210", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=455210", "title": "Formics", "text": "Formics\n\nThe Formics, also known as Buggers, are a fictional ant-like alien species from the Ender's Game series of science fiction novels by Orson Scott Card.\n\nAccording to the novel canon, the Formics attacked Earth a few generations before the novel begins. They attempted to colonise the planet and were barely fought off by a New Zealand soldier known as Mazer Rackham. The first book in the series, Ender's Game, largely stems from the human quest to defend themselves from this species, although the Formics ultimately turn out as victims, with the first attack being an accident due to differing biology.\n\nThe term \"Formic\" is derived from \"formica\", the Latin word for \"ant\"; whereas \"bugger\" is a pejorative used by humans; yet it was not until 1999's \"Ender's Shadow\" that the term 'Formic' was first used, interchangeably with 'Bugger'. Later books used 'Formic' almost exclusively, as the more 'scientific' term. This leads to odd scenarios in the continuity of the books, such as Valentine referring to them as \"Buggers\" in \"Ender's Game\", chronologically next as \"Formics\" in \"Ender in Exile\", and again as \"Buggers\" in \"Speaker for the Dead\" and \"Xenocide\". The feature film adaptation of \"Ender's Game\" uses \"Formics\" exclusively.\n\nThe Formic species consists of hive-minded colonies directed by queens. While often described as \"insectoid\", the Formics are warm-blooded, and they respire and perspire. If a queen dies, all the workers under her control lose their ability to function immediately; but in \"Xenocide\", implications exist that 'workers' can escape the influence of a queen. The Formic race is revealed to be trimorphic in \"Shadows in Flight\". Drones are much smaller and depend on a Hive Queen for survival, and their bodies are shaped to spend their lives clinging to her, until upon her death, they take flight to seek out a new queen. Drones are capable of individual thought and action as well as mind-to-mind communication, more limited than that of a queen; whereas queens communicate instantaneously and can even do so with other species. Formics live in vast underground colonies, usually without light, informing the assumption that Formics make use of sensory apparatus outside the range of the electromagnetic spectrum visible to humans. In the first novel they have artificial lighting; whereas in \"Xenocide\", Ender claims they rely on heat signature.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51579072", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51579072", "title": "Francisco Paesa", "text": "Francisco Paesa\n\nFrancisco Paesa (Madrid, Spain, 11 April 1936- ) is a Spanish former spy and businessman best known for his implication in several corruption scandals and the faking of his own death in the 1990s.\n\nHe began his business career conducting various businesses with Francisco Macías Nguema, the then dictator of Equatorial Guinea. In 1976 he was arrested by Interpol in Belgium and imprisoned in Switzerland and it is believed that he collaborated with the paramilitary group GAL.\n\nAfter serving his sentence in 1986 he posed as an arms dealer who sold two antiaircraft missiles to ETA. The terrorist group did not know that the missiles had a location signal. The police could find at Henday in France during July 1986 and for the first time, a major hideout in which a large number of weapons and documents were stored. Until then, the Spanish government knew virtually nothing about ETA logistics and this operation was an important turning point.\n\nJudge Baltasar Garzón issued a warrant of arrest for Francisco Paesa on December 1, 1988 for collaboration with armed band and use of false identities.\n\nLuis Roldán, known for being the Director General of the Spanish Civil Guard when a big scandal of corruption arose in 1993, have said that Paesa tricked him into stealing all the money that Roldán had previously stolen in that case but the judicial case on the research to hide the heritage of Luis Roldán was filed in 2004, as the crime had prescribed.\n\nIn 1998 he faked a fatal cardiac arrest in Thailand. Obituaries were published and a death certificate was forged. His family even commissioned thirty Gregorian Masses for his soul. The Spanish authorities believed that he had faked his death and he had escaped with two billion pesetas (given to him by Roldán).\n\nHe reappeared on Spanish media in 2004. He was mentioned as an organizer of an operation to overthrow Equatorial Guinea dictator Obiang with an army of mercenaries. \nSome say that Francisco Paesa was spotted by a detective agency in Barcelona, others in France and some in Luxembourg. However, everyone agreed that he had an Argentine passport with the name Francisco Pando Sánchez.\n\nIn December 2005, the magazine \"Interviú\" surprised him in Paris, where he was interviewed by director . He was 68 years old and his figure was impeccable. He explained that \"his death\" had been a misunderstanding, since it was reported that he was one of the three people who died in a shooting in Bangkok. He was willing to show the scars. As for the Russian mafia, he asked journalists to not publish the photos because that would force him to commit suicide.\n\nIn September 2016, the magazine \"Vanity Fair\" published an exclusive interview with Paesa. According to Paesa, his supposed death in Thailand was a misunderstanding; he was on an Anti-Terrorism commission from the Argentine Government when he was shot, wounded in action and taken to an unknown boat where he spent 7 months in a coma.\n\nThe 2016 Spanish film \"Smoke & Mirrors\" is based on his life.\n"}
{"id": "1636369", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1636369", "title": "György Cziffra Jr.", "text": "György Cziffra Jr.\n\nGyörgy Cziffra Jr. (; 1943–1981) was a Hungarian conductor. His father was the famous pianist György Cziffra who had served in the Hungarian forces during World War II, and was arrested for political reasons by communist authorities after World War II. In 1956 the family fled Hungary, settling in France.\n\nHe trained as a pianist, but decided to turn to conducting. He and his father worked together on several recordings and live performances.\n\nCziffra died in a fire at his house in the Paris suburbs. His father was heartbroken, and from that day on he never performed or recorded with an orchestra again.\n"}
{"id": "39540288", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39540288", "title": "Hans Günther Aach", "text": "Hans Günther Aach\n\nHans Günther Aach (born 2 October 1919) is a German botanist.\n\nAach was born in Oldenburg. He gained his doctorate in March 1952 in the Faculty of Mathematics and Natural Sciences of the University of Göttingen. In July 1961 he presented his professorial thesis at the University of Cologne. He spent several months as visiting faculty at University of California, Berkeley and Stanford University. On 31 December 1962 he was appointed Extraordinary Professor of Botany at the RWTH Aachen University. From 12 January 1965 he was appointed to the Chair of Botany in the same place and made director of the Botanical Institute. He retired on 1 March 1984.\n\nThe emphasis of his scientific work was on proteins in viruses. He collaborated on the \"Handbuch der Biologie\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47761281", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47761281", "title": "Hans Willem van Aylva", "text": "Hans Willem van Aylva\n\nHans Willem van Aylva (ca. 1633, Holwerd - 21 February 1691, near Leuven) was a Dutch soldier.\n\nIn 1667 he participated in the Dutch Raid on Medway. He was appointed a Major General in 1668 and promoted to Lieutenant General four years later. He was also Lieutenant Admiral of Friesland. He saw a great deal of service in the Franco-Dutch War during the 1670s, and was badly wounded at the Battle of Seneffe in 1674.\n\nFollowing the outbreak of the Nine Years War he commanded a small Dutch army that took part in early operations around Cologne where he co-operated with German forces under Hans Adam von Schöning. At the Battle of Walcourt (1689) he led a mixed force of English and Dutch soldiers. In 1690 he arrived just too late to fight at the Battle of Fleurus, but his troops were able to allow Waldeck's defeated Allied army to retreat safely.\n\nThe following year he died after falling from his horse.\n\n"}
{"id": "803558", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=803558", "title": "Helicase-dependent amplification", "text": "Helicase-dependent amplification\n\nHelicase-dependent amplification (HDA) is a method for \"in vitro\" DNA amplification (like the polymerase chain reaction) that takes place at a constant temperature.\n\nThe polymerase chain reaction is the most widely used method for \"in vitro\" DNA amplification for purposes of molecular biology and biomedical research. This process involves the separation of the double-stranded DNA in high heat into single strands (the denaturation step, typically achieved at 95–97 °C), annealing of the primers to the single stranded DNA (the annealing step) and copying the single strands to create new double-stranded DNA (the extension step that requires the DNA polymerase) requires the reaction to be done in a thermal cycler. These bench-top machines are large, expensive and costly to run and maintain, limiting the potential applications of DNA amplification in situations outside the laboratory (e.g., in the identification of potentially hazardous micro-organisms at the scene of investigation, or at the point of care of a patient). Although PCR is usually associated with thermal cycling, the original patent by Mullis et al. disclosed the use of a helicase as a means for denaturation of double stranded DNA thereby including isothermal nucleic acid amplification.\n\"In vivo\", DNA is replicated by DNA polymerases with various accessory proteins, including a DNA helicase that acts to separate the DNA by unwinding the DNA double helix. HDA was developed from this concept, using a helicase (an enzyme) to denature the DNA.\n\nStrands of double stranded DNA are first separated by a DNA helicase and coated by single stranded DNA (ssDNA)-binding proteins. In the second step, two sequence specific primers hybridise to each border of the DNA template. DNA polymerases are then used to extend the primers annealed to the templates to produce a double stranded DNA and the two newly synthesized DNA products are then used as substrates by DNA helicases, entering the next round of the reaction. Thus, a simultaneous chain reaction develops, resulting in exponential amplification of the selected target sequence (see Vincent \"et al.\"., 2004 for a schematic diagram).\n\nSince the publication of its discovery, HDA technology is being used for a \"simple, easy to adapt nucleic acid test for the detection of \"Clostridium difficile\"\". Other applications include the rapid detection of \"Staphylococcus aureus \" by the amplification and detection of a short DNA sequence specific to the bacterium. The advantages of HDA is that it provides a rapid method of nucleic acid amplification of a specific target at an isothermic temperature that does not require a thermal cycler. However, the optimisation of primers and sometimes buffers is required beforehand by the researcher. Normally primer and buffer optimisation is tested and achieved through PCR, raising the question of the need to spend extra on a separate system to do the actual amplification. Despite the selling point that HDA negates the use of a thermal cycler and therefore allows research to be conducted in the field, much of the work required to detect potentially hazardous microorganisms is carried out in a research/hospital lab setting regardless. At present, mass diagnoses from a great number of samples cannot yet be achieved by HDA, whereas PCR reactions carried out in thermal cycler that can hold multi-well sample plates allows for the amplification and detection of the intended DNA target from a maximum of 96 samples. The cost of purchasing reagents for HDA are also relatively expensive to that of PCR reagents, more so since it comes as a ready-made kit.\n"}
{"id": "2413623", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2413623", "title": "Japanese submarine I-168", "text": "Japanese submarine I-168\n\nThe Japanese submarine \"I-168 (I-68\", until 20 May 1942) was a \"Kaidai\" type of cruiser submarine active in World War II. A KD6 sub-class boat, \"I-168\" was built for the Imperial Japanese Navy (IJN) in the early 1930s. At the Battle of Midway she sank the only American warships lost in the battle: the aircraft carrier and the destroyer . At that time she was commanded by Lieutenant Commander Yahachi Tanabe.\n\nThe submarine was completed at the Kure Dock Yard on 31 July 1934. She was originally designated \"I-68\". On 23 November 1941, \"I-68\" and the rest of Submarine Squadron 3 were stationed near Hawaii to perform reconnaissance duties in preparation for the impending attack on Pearl Harbor. Still on station near Hawaii on December 13, \"I-68\" was subjected to 21 separate depth charge attacks. The last attack damaged her batteries and flooded the aft torpedo tubes. After undergoing repairs at Kwajalein, \"I-68\" conducted several uneventful patrols in the Pacific, before being redesignated \"I-168\" on 20 May 1942 as part of a general submarine re-numbering program undertaken by the IJN.\n\n\"I-168\" was one of 13 submarines forming the Advance Expeditionary Force of the Japanese attack on Midway. Under the command of Tanabe Yahachi, she steamed south of Midway as far as Kure Island during her approach on 31 May 1942. The American aircraft carriers had passed through the area of the submarine patrol line before the submarines arrived on their patrol stations. \"I-168\" spent the first three days of June observing Midway's southern horizon through the periscope by day and through binoculars at a range of five miles at night. \"I-168\" observed and reported heavy aircraft activity indicating the island anticipated the Japanese attack. She made periscope observations during the first Japanese air attack on Midway. \"I-168\" commenced shelling Midway with its 10-cm (4-inch) deck gun at 0130 5 June; but submerged when illuminated by shore searchlights after firing only 6 rounds.\n\n\"I-168\" was unsuccessfully attacked by aircraft on 5 June; and upon surfacing after the attack, received orders to sink the damaged American aircraft carrier USS \"Yorktown\". Lookouts detected \"Yorktown\", and the destroyer \"Hammann\" alongside her at 0530 6 June. \"I-168\" closed the range from 11 miles at six knots, and then slowed to three knots for the final approach through \"Yorktown\"'s destroyer screen. Over-cautious use of the periscope resulted in getting too close to the carrier on the initial approach, so the submarine circled to starboard to increase the range and then fired a salvo of four torpedoes at 1330 from a range of 1200 yards. After observing the torpedo hits, \"I-168\" descended to 200 feet and slowed to three knots directly under \"Yorktown\". American destroyers \"Gwin\", \"Hughes\", and \"Monaghan\" dropped 60 depth charges before damaging \"I-168\" at 1530. A depth charge exploding near the bow put out the lights, damaged the forward battery room, sprung the hatches to No. 1 torpedo tube and reduced the submerged depth to 60 feet. All unoccupied crewmen grabbed sacks of rice from forward storage and moved astern to trim the submarine because of the flooding forward. After a few hours of relative quiet, \"I-168\" surfaced an hour before sunset and ran west at 14 knots to charge batteries and ventilate interior spaces. Two American destroyers spotted her at a range of 11000 yards and commenced firing from a range of 6500 yards about 30 minutes later. \"I-168\" submerged and evaded the approaching destroyers.\n\nAfter conducting emergency repairs, Tanabe and his crew limped back to Japan using only two engines, a journey of twelve days. Following full repairs at Sasebo, \"I-168\" was placed under the command of Lieutenant Commander Katsuji Watanabe and reassigned to cargo transportation missions to the beleaguered Solomon Islands and Kiska.\n\nOn 27 July 1943, \"I-168\" engaged the American submarine USS \"Scamp\" in the Steffen Strait near New Hanover Island. After crash-diving his boat under an incoming torpedo, Lieutenant Commander Walter Gale Ebert returned fire, sinking \"I-168\" with all hands.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50774941", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50774941", "title": "John Adam (sailor)", "text": "John Adam (sailor)\n\nJohn M. Adam was a British sailing competitor at the 1908 Summer Olympics.\n\nHe was a crew member on the \"Mouchette\" which finished second of two teams competing in the 12 metre class. At the time, only the helmsman and mate were awarded silver medals, while the crew received bronze medals. However, Adam is credited as having received a silver medal in the official Olympic database.\n"}
{"id": "57676227", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57676227", "title": "Katrina Spade", "text": "Katrina Spade\n\nKatrina Mogielnicki Spade (born September 9, 1977) is an American designer, entrepreneur, and death care advocate. Spade is the founder of Recompose, a public-benefit corporation developing a natural alternative to conventional cremation and burial. She was awarded the Echoing Green Climate Fellowship in 2014 for her work.\n\nSpade grew up in rural New Hampshire and was raised by a physician and physician's assistant. She told the Seattle \"Stranger\" of that time in her life, \"We weren't religious, but we saw nature as somehow spiritual.\" She earned a Bachelor of Arts in anthropology from Haverford College in Pennsylvania, then turned her focus to sustainable design while attending Yestermorrow Design/Build School in Vermont. At Yestermorrow, Spade helped to build a Pain Mound - a compost-based bioenergy system invented by Jean Pain that can produce heat for up to 18 months. Later, while earning a Master of Architecture from the University of Massachusetts Amherst, she wrote a thesis entitled \"A Place for the Urban Dead\", an idea for which she was awarded the Echoing Green Climate Fellowship in 2014.\n\nIn considering her own mortality, Spade wanted options more that were environmentally sustainable and allowed family and friends to participate in the care of their loved one. She formulated early ideas about the possibility of human recomposition, but when she learned about the practice of livestock mortality composting, she began work to create the same option for humans. Spade founded the Urban Death Project in 2014 with a focus on developing a new system of death care called recomposition, which transforms human bodies into soil. The system is not yet recognized as a legal form of disposition in the United States.\n\nIn 2018, the Urban Death Project dissolved and Spade founded Recompose, a public-benefit corporation. Similar to the Urban Death Project, Recompose is developing a patent pending process that converts human remains to soil. It seeks to create a scalable and sustainable alternative to natural burial, particularly for urban dwellers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4245377", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4245377", "title": "Kherubim", "text": "Kherubim\n\nThe Kherubim or Kherans are an alien race in the fictional Wildstorm Universe. They were created by Jim Lee and first appeared in \"WildC.A.Ts\" #1 (August 1992).\n\nKherubim are various groups/races of people from the planet Khera. Kherubim resemble humans in appearance but are physically far stronger and more durable and extremely long-lived, nearly immortal. Savant was harmed by armor-piercing machine gun bullets; however, after they are surgically removed, she makes a full and rapid recovery. Kherans (including Titanthropes) can interbreed with humans, bearing fertile offspring.\n\nAn evolutionary drawback to their near-immortality is that nearly all Kheran females are infertile; only very rarely will a Kheran produce offspring. This is a natural check against overpopulation. Only one in 10,000 Kheran females is capable of giving birth, and only then at her very first mating. Of those, only one in approximately 10,000 will become pregnant, and only 1 in 1000 of those babies will be born alive; the rest are stillborn. The saving grace of the species is that this infertility does not seem to apply when the Kheran is mating with another species, as Earth has various Kheran/human hybrids.\n\nMore powerful Kherans are known as Lords and may possess telekinetic and energy manipulation abilities. Mister Majestic, Lord Emp and Yohn Khol are Kherubim Lords.\nShapers are a subspecies of Kherans. They are shapeshifters who are able to manipulate the molecular structure of their bodies, transforming part or all of their bodies into a substance with metallic properties, which they can manipulate and reshape at will. The Wildcat Warblade is a Shaper.\n\nThough genetically a different species, the Titanthropes (or simply Titans) have been part of Kherubim society for so long that they are also often called Kherubim. However, they are considered and treated as second-class citizens of Khera by the Kherubim. They are large, purple-skinned humanoids who are able to increase or decrease their mass. Males have large yellow horns growing from their backs. A Titan's intelligence is inversely proportional to their current size. The Wildcat Maul is a Titanthrope.\n\nThousands of years ago, the Kherubim destroyed their own planet, according to Titan myth. They then came to Khera and settled it, subjugating the Titans. The Titans would slowly become more or less accepted within the Kherubim society but remained second-class citizens.\n\nMillennia ago, the Kherans came into contact with the Daemonites and a war erupted between both species. This war would last several centuries. A small group of Kherans and Daemonites crashlanded on Earth and inspired humanity with tales of gods, angels, demons, and monsters. Their conflict would continue until the end of the 20th century, while in space the Kherans would go on to defeat the Daemonites. Kherans imposed heavy indemnities on the Daemonites and their society went bankrupt trying to pay them off. Khera allowed Daemonites to migrate to the more prosperous planet, but forced these Daemonites refugees to live in ghettos.\n\nWhen a small group of Kheran and half-Kheran heroes from Earth known as the WildC.A.Ts arrived on Khera, they were welcomed as heroes, but quickly learned that Kheran society had changed over the years. Disgusted with the autocratic nature of Kheran society, they left the planet and returned to Earth.\n\nLater, the Kherubim lord Majestros found hidden Kheran devices, known as Planet Shaper Engines, beneath the surface of the Earth. This caused the realization that humanity and Kherans were closely related and that similar species had been seeded throughout the universe, creating both the Daemonites and Kherans in addition to humans.\n\nThe Shaper Guild from Khera arrived on Earth and announced that factions within Kherubim society had decided on using Planet Shaper Engines to transform the Earth into another Khera, causing a civil war.\n\nKherans are a warrior race with a strong emphasis on hand-to-hand combat and honor.\n\nDue to their low fertility, every Kheran man and woman coming of age has to mate with an appointed partner. If the woman gives birth, she must become a priestess. If not, she may go on to live her life as she wishes. Lady Zannah has managed to avoid becoming a priestess, despite giving birth, because her mother told others that the baby had died, allowing Zannah to become a warrior. Her mother then passed Zannah's baby, Kenesha, off as Zealot's sister. As a mother of two children, Zannah's mother, Harmony, has become a living legend. No Kheran can remember the last time a Kheran woman gave birth to more than one child in her life. Zannah became the founder of the Coda Sisterhood.\n\nOlder and more powerful Kherans are named Lords. It remains unclear what makes a Kheran a Lord, but a Lord is capable of undergoing the ritual of Ascension when he is ready. The Ascension ritual is an important part of the Kheran culture, where a Lord asks a partner or good friend to destroy his body so that his spirit can be free. A Lord usually has so much energy stored in his body that this process tends to consume both Kherans.\n\nThe Coda worship a goddess, Hecate, but little is known about this religion. Other Kherans apparently do not worship any gods but believe in individual enlightenment through Ascension.\n\nThough originally seen as noble and protective of other species, the Kherans were later shown to be quite speciesist, looking down upon other species while perceiving themselves as tolerant and benevolent.\n\nThe Kherans have a political system where various parties vie for power. The various factions include:\n\nWhile preferring bladed weapons in combat, Kherans are technologically advanced. They own spaceships capable of interstellar flights. They are capable of inscribing knowledge in the form of organic molecules, which when injected into the bloodstream, downloads that knowledge straight into the brain. They are capable of manipulating the laws of chance, simply for the purpose of entertainment as their 'Coincidental Mansion' shows. Armies of very advanced androids known as the Spartan Guards serve as soldiers. Spartan Guards have shown high intelligence and superhuman physical capabilities. Kherubim Planet Shapers can terraform worlds and alter living DNA and can remain functional for billions of years.\n\n"}
{"id": "713491", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=713491", "title": "Kübler-Ross model", "text": "Kübler-Ross model\n\nThe Kübler-Ross model is popularly known as the five stages of grief, though more accurately, the model postulates a progression of emotional states experienced by terminally ill patients after diagnosis. The five stages are chronologically: denial, anger, bargaining, depression and acceptance.\n\nThe model was first introduced by Swiss-American psychiatrist Elisabeth Kübler-Ross in her 1969 book \"On Death and Dying\", and was inspired by her work with terminally ill patients. Motivated by the lack of instruction in medical schools on the subject of death and dying, Kübler-Ross examined death and those faced with it at the University of Chicago medical school. Kübler-Ross' project evolved into a series of seminars which, along with patient interviews and previous research, became the foundation for her book. Although Kübler-Ross is commonly credited with creating stage models, earlier bereavement theorists and clinicians such as Erich Lindemann, Collin Murray Parkes, and John Bowlby used similar models of stages of phases as early as the 1940s.\n\nLater in her life, Kübler-Ross noted that the stages are not a linear and predictable progression and that she regretted writing them in a way that was misunderstood. \"Kübler-Ross originally saw these stages as reflecting how people cope with illness and dying,\" observed grief researcher Kenneth J. Doka, \"not as reflections of how people grieve.\"\n\nThe stages, popularly known by the acronym DABDA, include:\n\nIn a book co-authored with David Kessler and published posthumously, Kübler-Ross expanded her model to include any form of personal loss, such as the death of a loved one, the loss of a job or income, major rejection, the end of a relationship or divorce, drug addiction, incarceration, the onset of a disease or an infertility diagnosis, and even minor losses, such as a loss of insurance coverage.\n\nCriticisms of this five-stage model of grief center mainly on a lack of empirical research and empirical evidence supporting the stages as described by Kübler-Ross and, to the contrary, empirical support for other modes of the expression of grief. Moreover, Kübler-Ross' model is the product of a particular culture at a particular time and might not be applicable to people of other cultures. These points have been made by many experts, such as Professor Robert J. Kastenbaum (1932–2013) who was a recognized expert in gerontology, aging, and death. In his writings, Kastenbaum raised the following points:\n\nA 2003 study of bereaved individuals conducted by Maciejewski and colleagues at Yale University obtained some findings consistent with the five-stage hypothesis but others inconsistent with it. Several letters were also published in the same journal criticizing this research and arguing against the stage idea.\n\nGeorge Bonanno, Professor of Clinical Psychology at Columbia University, in his book \"The Other Side of Sadness: What the New Science of Bereavement Tells Us About Life After a Loss\", summarizes peer-reviewed research based on thousands of subjects over two decades and concludes that a natural psychological resilience is a principal component of grief and that there are no stages of grief to pass. Bonanno's work has also demonstrated that absence of grief or trauma symptoms is a healthy outcome.\n\nThe lack of support in peer-reviewed research or objective clinical observation by many practitioners in the field has led to the labels of \"myth\" and \"fallacy\" in the notion that there are stages of grief. Nevertheless, the model's use has persisted in popular news and entertainment media including the animated sitcom \"The Simpsons\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58569068", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58569068", "title": "List of countries by maternal mortality rate", "text": "List of countries by maternal mortality rate\n\nMaternal death or maternal mortality is defined by the World Health Organization (WHO) as \"the death of a woman while pregnant or within 42 days of termination of pregnancy, irrespective of the duration and site of the pregnancy, from any cause related to or aggravated by the pregnancy or its management but not from accidental or incidental causes.\" The maternal mortality rate, on the other hand, is the number of maternal deaths per 100,000 births. The maternal mortality is used as a criterion for the quality of medical care in a country.\n\nCountries by maternal mortality rate in the year 2015. All data is from the World Bank.\n"}
{"id": "57794897", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57794897", "title": "List of countries by meat consumption per capita", "text": "List of countries by meat consumption per capita\n\nThe data shown below represent per capita amounts of meat eaten by humans.\n\nThe data in this table can be compared to List of countries by meat consumption which are simply figures for carcass mass availability (with \"carcass mass\" for poultry estimated as ready-to-cook mass), divided by population. This includes the amount eaten by humans, as well as losses, which include bones, losses in retail and food service or home preparation (including trim and cooking), spoilage and “downstream” waste, and amounts consumed by pets (compare dressed weight).\n"}
{"id": "23886619", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23886619", "title": "List of programming languages for artificial intelligence", "text": "List of programming languages for artificial intelligence\n\nArtificial intelligence researchers have developed several specialized programming languages for artificial intelligence:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7986568", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7986568", "title": "Manfred, Duke of Athens", "text": "Manfred, Duke of Athens\n\nManfred (1306 – 9 November 1317), \"infante\" of Sicily, was the second son of Frederick III of Sicily and Eleanor of Anjou. \n\nHe was appointed Duke of Athens and Neopatria in 1312 by his father at the request of the knights of the Catalan Company then in control of Athens. Manfred was only five when he was named Duke. His father sent Berenguer Estañol as his regent.\n\nIn 1316, Alfonso Fadrique, Manfred's elder (but illegitimate) brother, was appointed vicar general of Athens. The young Duke never set foot in his realm, however, for he died in a fall from his horse before his twelfth birthday. He died in Trapani and was buried in the Dominican church located there. His younger brother William succeeded him as Duke.\n\n"}
{"id": "27753913", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27753913", "title": "Maria Caterina Farnese", "text": "Maria Caterina Farnese\n\nMaria Caterina Farnese (18 February 1615 – 25 July 1646) was a member of the Ducal House of Farnese. She was the Duchess of Modena as the first wife of Francesco I d'Este, Duke of Modena. In some sources she is known simply as \"Maria Farnese\".\n\nBorn in Parma to Ranuccio I Farnese, Duke of Parma and his wife, \"Donna\" Margherita Aldobrandini, she was the couples sixth child and second daughter. \n\nHer older brother Odoardo Farnese was later the Duke of Parma. \nHer mother was Margherita Aldobrandini, daughter of Gianfrancesco and Olimpia Aldobrandini who in turn, was a member of the House of Aldobrandini of Rome, and the sole heiress to the family fortune. \n\nShe was a proposed bride of Charles II of England but the marriage plans never materialised Charles instead married Catherine of Braganza. \n\nShe was engaged to Francesco I d'Este, Duke of Modena, son of the defunct Alfonso III d'Este, Duke of Modena and Princess Isabella of Savoy. \n\nShe married Francesco on 11 January 1631 in Parma; the marriage produced nine children, three of which went on to have progeny. \n\nShe died in July 1646 having give birth to a son. She died at the Ducal Palace of Sassuolo outside Modena, the summer residence of the Dukes of Modena. \n\nHer nephew Ranuccio II Farnese, Duke of Parma married two of Maria Caterina's daughters, Isabella in 1664 and Maria in 1668. Isabella died in childbirth like her mother. Her husband married again twice, firstly to her sister Vittoria Farnese in 1648 and then to Lucrezia Barberini who was the mother of Rinaldo d'Este, Duke of Modena.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50529615", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50529615", "title": "Merodiploid", "text": "Merodiploid\n\nA Merodiploid is a partially diploid bacterium, which has its own chromosome complement and a chromosome fragment introduced by conjugation, transformation or transduction. It can also be defined as an essentially haploid organism that carries a second copy of a part of its genome. The term is derived from the Greek, meros = part, and was originally used to describe both unstable partial diploidy, such as that which occurs briefly in recipients after mating with an Hfr strain (1), and the stable state, exemplified by F-prime strains (see Hfr'S And F-Primes). Over time the usage has tended to confine the term to descriptions of stable genetic states. Merodiploidy refers to the partial duplication of chromosomes in a haploid organism.\n"}
{"id": "13501848", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13501848", "title": "Neva Gerber", "text": "Neva Gerber\n\nGenevieve Dolores Gerber (April 3, 1894 – January 2, 1974) was an American silent film actress who appeared in 128 films between 1912 and 1930. She used the name Jean Dolores in her last two films.\n\nShe was born in Argenta, Illinois, to S. Nelson Gerber and Jean Pullman. Her parents separated when she was young and her mother moved her to Los Angeles, California. She was raised by nuns from the College of the Immaculate Heart. After the death of her father, Gerber's impoverished mother gave guardianship of her daughter to an attorney.\n\nAfter her graduation from high school, Gerber became an actress and appeared in several one-reelers. Her film debut came in \"The Flower Girl's Romance\" (1912). Beginning in 1917, she starred in multiple serial films, and she is considered one of the top ten \"serial queens\" of the silent film period. She teamed with director and actor Ben F. Wilson in many of these productions, and starred in the first crude sound era serial, \"The Voice from the Sky\", also directed by Wilson. However, her career stalled in 1930 after Wilson died from heart disease. Gerber retired from acting shortly thereafter.\n\nGerber's first marriage was to actor Arthur Nelson Millett on July 22, 1913. They separated the following year. In 1915, she became engaged to director William Desmond Taylor. The two never married because Gerber was still married to Millett (their divorce became final in 1920), and Taylor was murdered in February 1922. The following year Gerber married contractor Edward Dana Nolan. They later divorced. She remained married to her fourth husband, contractor William Munchoff, until his death in 1960.\n\nOn January 2, 1974, Gerber died of a cerebral thrombosis in Palm Springs, California. She was buried in a “pauper's grave” in Desert Memorial Park in Cathedral City, California.\n\n"}
{"id": "57442499", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57442499", "title": "Oscar Beauchemin", "text": "Oscar Beauchemin\n\nOscar Beauchemin (–January 15, 1938) was an American architect, and civil engineer based out of Holyoke, Massachusetts who designed a number of tenements and commercial blocks in the Greater Springfield area, and whose work was prominent in the Main Street architectural landscape of the Springdale neighborhood of Holyoke, Massachusetts.\n\nBeauchemin was born in Quebec around the year 1876, with his family relocating to Holyoke within a year, where he would spend nearly his entire childhood. For the first part of his subsequent career, he was employed by the Merrick Lumber Company. Having a long-held interest in designing buildings, he first became active as an architect in 1903, and opened his own independent firm in 1908.\n\nBy the end of his career Beauchemin had become under the employ of Holyoke's municipal engineering department. Throughout his life he was an active member Massachusetts Catholic Order of Foresters and was known to be a competitive candlepin bowler.\n\nFollowing a period of brief illness, he died in the evening of January 15, 1938 at his home at about the age of 62.\n\nWhile known to have constructed smaller dwellings as well, Beauchemin's works were generally large brick tenements with ground-floor storefronts or offices, done in the neoclassical style. Among features common to his work were festoon-adorned friezes, belt courses and angled windows placed at a corner of the front facade.\n"}
{"id": "15476968", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15476968", "title": "Professional mourning", "text": "Professional mourning\n\nProfessional mourning or paid mourning is an occupation that originates from Egyptian, Chinese, Mediterranean and Near Eastern cultures. Professional mourners, also called moirologists, are compensated to lament or deliver a eulogy and help comfort and entertain the grieving family. Mentioned in the Bible and other religious texts, the occupation is widely invoked and explored in literature, from the Ugaritic epics of early centuries BC to modern poetry. Held in high esteem in some cultures and times, the practice was vilified in others, such as the Chinese Cultural Revolution. Female professional mourners also, called \"Rudaali\", were common in many parts of India, especially in the Western Indian state of Rajasthan\n\nProfessional mourning is still practiced in China and other Asian countries. In fact, some cultures even think that the use of professional mourners brings a certain religious and historical application to funeral processions.\n\nMost of the people hired to perform the act of professional mourning were women. Men were deemed unfit for this because they were supposed to be strong and leaders of the family, unwilling to show any sort of raw emotion like grief, which is why women were professional mourners. It was actually socially acceptable to express grief for women, and expressing grief is important when it comes to mourning a body in terms of religion. Also, in a world full of jobs solely made for men, it gave women a sense of pride that they were actually able to earn money in some way. Mourners were also seen as a sign of wealth. The more wailers or mourners that followed your cascade around, the more respected you were in the society.\n\nIn ancient Egypt, The mourners would be \"making an ostentatious display of grief which included loud wailing, beating exposed breasts, smearing the body with dirt and dishevelled hair; all signs of uncontrolled behavior, the disorder of sorrow\" (Capel, 1996). There are many inscriptions on tombs and pyramids of crowds of people following a body throughout the funerary procession. However, the most important of the women were the two that impersonated the two gods Isis and Nephyts.\n\nIsis and Nephyts were both Egyptian gods that were believed to play a special role when someone died. They were to be impersonated as a mourning ritual by professional mourners. In most inscriptions seen, one of them is at either ends of the corpse. There are also rules for impersonation of these two gods, for example the portrayer's body had to be shaved completely, not have any children, and tattooed the names Isis or Nephyts on their shoulders for identification. Evidence of professional mourning is seen in Ancient Egypt through different pyramid and tomb inscriptions. Different inscriptions show women next to tombs holding their bodies in such ways that show sorrow, such as \"hands holding their back of the neck, crossing their arms on their chests, kneeling and/or bending their bodies forwards\" (Valdesago, 2014).\n\nProfessional mourners have been regular attendees of Chinese funerals since 756. The tradition of professional mourning stemmed from theatrical performances that would occur during funerary processions. There would be musical performances at funerals stemming as early as the third century. Actors would play the role of the deceased and play out different aspects of their lives, as described in the following scene:\n\n\"...set up wooden figures of Xiang Yu and Liu Bang participating in the banquet at Goose Gate. The show lasted quite some time. This performance was part of a funeral procession during the Dali reign (766-779) as the coffin of the deceased was being carried on the streets to his tomb site. The main funerary ritual had taken place at the house of the deceased, and now the mourners were walking in the funeral procession, along with a troupe of performers. The latter performance of this celebrated episode of the feast at the Goose Gate (Hongmen) from the Three Kingdoms saga was preceded by the enactment of a combat scene between two celebrated soldiers in history that was performed alongside the procession\" (Hong, 2016).\n\nMost of the historical evidence of mourning exists in the form of inscriptions on the different panels of tombs. Each slab contains a different story, and by the analysis of these inscriptions we are able to tell that these were played out during the funeral. For example:\n\n\"Each scene --the preparation of food, the groom with a horse, and the entertainment -- is unfailingly reminiscent of classical representations that adorn many tomb walls or coffin surfaces created since the Hand period...these motifs are generally understood by students of Chinese funerary art as a banquet for the deceased...it is clear they represent the deceased couple because of the motif's strong connection to traditional representations of performances prepared for tomb occupants\" (-Hong, 2016)\n\nThe idea of entertainment at funerals was not always popular, especially with the government and scholars. In fact, during the Cultural Revolution in China professional mourning was actually so looked down upon and rallied against by the government that there wasn't a single instance of professional mourning until it was revitalized in the reform era.\n\nProfessional mourning is brought up many times throughout the Bible. For example in Amos,\n\n\"\"Therefore thus says the LORD God of hosts, the Lord, \"There is wailing in all the plazas, And in all the streets they say, 'Alas! Alas!' They also call the farmer to mourning And professional mourners to lamentation\" (Amos 5:16).\"\n\nAccording to Biblical analysts, this verse is implying that lamentation is like an art. People who were deemed \"good\" at wailing and moaning were then able to take part in more and more funerals, and were expected to make these moaning sounds. The people who fulfilled the roles of these professional mourners were farmers who were done cropping for their season, and didn't have much else to do, so they took on this role for the extra money it would get them.\n\nAnother instance of professional mourning worth noting is in Chronicles, the Bible says\n\n\"\"Then Jeremiah chanted a lament for Josiah. And all the male and female singers speak about Josiah in their lamentations to this day. And they made them an ordinance in Israel; behold, they are also written in the Lamentations.\" (2 Chronicles 35:25).\"\n\nWhen someone of power dies, in this case Josiah, everyone can fill the role of mourner, professionals aren't needed because everyone feels the weight of the loss. Everyone becomes the professional mourner.\n\nIn the book of Jeremiah,\n\n\"\"Thus says the Lord of hosts, “Consider and call for the mourning women, that they may come; And send for the wailing women, that they may come! “Let them make haste and take up a wailing for us,That our eyes may shed tears and our eyelids flow with water\" (Jeremiah 9: 17-18 ).\"\n\nThese three quotes from the Bible are just three of many that pertain to professional mourning.\n\nAccording to the book \"Mourner, Mother, Midwife\", women played an integral part when it came to mourning. \"Wailing women are called to lead the people in expressions of grief in response to the national tragedy that saw the destruction of Zion. These women who are called to 'raise a dirge over us' are literally called 'wise women.' This can also be translated as 'skilled women' (Jer. 9:17 [MT16]), suggesting that the art of mourning is a skill that has to be learned. The role of the wailing woman constituted a professional trade that required training. . . . On the appropriate occasion (a funeral or a national tragedy like the one that form the backdrop of Jeremiah 9), wailing women not only had to be able to draw on the reservoir of lament handed down through the generations, but they also had to adapt these laments to suit the particular need of the current situation. . . . Their laments represent the community’s response in the face of extreme trauma.\"\n\nIn the eyes of the average modern professional mourner, they are performers. A common ritual in China involves the family paying the mourners in advance and bringing them in lavish style to the place the funeral will take place. The mourners are trained in the art of singing and bring a band with them. The first step is for the mourners to line up outside and crawl. While crawling, the mourner says with anguish the name of the person. This is symbolic of daughters running home from their families in an effort to see the body. Next, a eulogy is performed in loud, sobbing, fashion and backed up by dramatic instrumental tunes, driving the attendees to tears. One of the common lines used during these eulogies are:\n\n\"\"Why did you leave us so soon? The earth is covered in a black veil for you. The rivers and streams are crying to tell your story – that of an honest man,’ Hu sings.\"\n\n\"‘I shed tears for your children and grandchildren. We’re so sorry we could not keep you here,’ she croons between sobs\" (Lim,2013).\"\n\nThen the family is told to bow in front of the casket three times, and suddenly a belly dancer takes the so called \"stage\" and the song picks up, lights start flashing, and everyone is upbeat again. Since the funeral is usually a couple of days after the actual death, the goal of the professional mourner is to remind everyone attending the funeral about the sadness and pain that is associated with when someone passes away. They also have the job of bringing the mood right back up with lighting and fun songs after the wailing and mourning is done.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, there is a program called \"Rent A Mourner\" in which families can hire people to increase the amount of guests at a funeral. People hired from this website are essentially actors that are given a role to play by the family, for example, a distant cousin or uncle. Mourners are expected to be able to communicate with and interact with guests without giving away that they have been hired by the family.This practice spans across religions, mourners have been hired at Muslim, Jewish, and Christian events. These mourners are paid somewhere between $30 - $120 and if everything goes well they are able to be tipped very gratuitously.\n\nIn Egypt, when someone in the family dies the women in the family would start the lamenting process, and the neighbors and the community would join throughout the day. Professional mourners would also come up and help lead the family in mourning by making grief-stricken shrieks, cherishing and reminiscing about the deceased. A funeral dirge is also performed by the mourners in which prayers are offered in the form of song or poetry. One of the teachings of Muhammad was that the sound of wailing woman was forbidden, but modern Egyptian culture doesn't heed to this part of the Quran as the wailing and mourners follow the body to the graveyard. All of this occurs within the same day, or if the deceased were to pass away in the night, the following day.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "319106", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=319106", "title": "Pulse computation", "text": "Pulse computation\n\nPulse computation is a hybrid of digital and analog computation that uses aperiodic electrical spikes, as opposed to the periodic voltages in a digital computer or the continuously varying voltages in an analog computer. Pulse streams are unlocked, so they can arrive at arbitrary times and can be generated by analog processes, although each spike is allocated a binary value, as it would be in a digital computer.\n\nPulse computation is primarily studied as part of the field of neural networks. The processing unit in such a network is called a \"neuron\".\n"}
{"id": "25345", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25345", "title": "Quality management system", "text": "Quality management system\n\nA quality management system (QMS) is a collection of business processes focused on consistently meeting customer requirements and enhancing their satisfaction. It is aligned with an organization's purpose and strategic direction (ISO9001:2015). It is expressed as the organizational goals and aspirations, policies, processes, documented information and resources needed to implement and maintain it. Early quality management systems emphasized predictable outcomes of an industrial product production line, using simple statistics and random sampling. By the 20th century, labor inputs were typically the most costly inputs in most industrialized societies, so focus shifted to team cooperation and dynamics, especially the early signaling of problems via a continual improvement cycle. In the 21st century, QMS has tended to converge with sustainability and transparency initiatives, as both investor and customer satisfaction and perceived quality is increasingly tied to these factors. Of QMS regimes, the ISO 9000 family of standards is probably the most widely implemented worldwide – the ISO 19011 audit regime applies to both, and deals with quality and sustainability and their integration.\n\nOther QMS, e.g. Natural Step, focus on sustainability issues and assume that other quality problems will be reduced as result of the systematic thinking, transparency, documentation and diagnostic discipline.\n\nThe term \"Quality Management System\" and the acronym \"QMS\" were invented in 1991 by Ken Croucher, a British management consultant working on designing and implementing a generic model of a QMS within the IT industry.\n\n\nThe concept of a quality as we think of it now first emerged from the Industrial Revolution.. Previously goods had been made from start to finish by the same person or team of people, with handcrafting and tweaking the product to meet 'quality criteria'. Mass production brought huge teams of people together to work on specific stages of production where one person would not necessarily complete a product from start to finish. In the late 19th century pioneers such as Frederick Winslow Taylor and Henry Ford recognized the limitations of the methods being used in mass production at the time and the subsequent varying quality of output. Birland established Quality Departments to oversee the quality of production and rectifying of errors, and Ford emphasized standardization of design and component standards to ensure a standard product was produced. Management of quality was the responsibility of the Quality department and was implemented by Inspection of product output to 'catch' defects.\n\nApplication of statistical control came later as a result of World War production methods, which were advanced by the work done of W. Edwards Deming, a statistician, after whom the Deming Prize for quality is named. Joseph M. Juran focused more on managing for quality. The first edition of Juran's Quality Control Handbook was published in 1951. He also developed the \"Juran's trilogy\", an approach to cross-functional management that is composed of three managerial processes: quality planning, quality control, and quality improvement. These functions all play a vital role when evaluating quality.\n\nQuality, as a profession and the managerial process associated with the quality function, was introduced during the second half of the 20th century and has evolved since then. Over this period, few other disciplines have seen as many changes as the quality profession.\n\nThe quality profession grew from simple control to engineering, to systems engineering. Quality control activities were predominant in the 1940s, 1950s, and 1960s. The 1970s were an era of quality engineering and the 1990s saw quality systems as an emerging field. Like medicine, accounting, and engineering, quality has achieved status as a recognized profession\n\nAs Lee and Dale (1998) state, there are many organizations that are striving to assess the methods and ways in which their overall productivity, the quality of their products and services and the required operations to achieve them are done.\n\nThe two primary , state of the art, guidelines for medical device manufacturer QMS and related services today are the ISO 13485 standards and the US FDA 21 CFR 820 regulations. The two have a great deal of similarity, and many manufacturers adopt QMS that is compliant with both guidelines.\n\nISO 13485 are harmonized with the European Union medical devices directive (93/42/EEC) as well as the IVD and AIMD directives. The ISO standard is also incorporated in regulations for other jurisdictions such as Japan (JPAL) and Canada (CMDCAS).\n\nQuality System requirements for medical devices have been internationally recognized as a way to assure product safety and efficacy and customer satisfaction since at least 1983 and were instituted as requirements in a final rule published on October 7, 1996. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) had documented design defects in medical devices that contributed to recalls from 1983 to 1989 that would have been prevented if Quality Systems had been in place. The rule is promulgated at 21 CFR 820.\n\nAccording to current Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP), medical device manufacturers have the responsibility to use good judgment when developing their quality system and apply those sections of the FDA Quality System (QS) Regulation that are applicable to their specific products and operations, in Part 820 of the QS regulation. As with GMP, operating within this flexibility, it is the responsibility of each manufacturer to establish requirements for each type or family of devices that will result in devices that are safe and effective, and to establish methods and procedures to design, produce, and distribute devices that meet the quality system requirements.\n\nThe FDA has identified in the QS regulation the 7 essential subsystems of a quality system. These subsystems include:\n\nall overseen by management and quality audits.\n\nBecause the QS regulation covers a broad spectrum of devices and production processes, it allows some leeway in the details of quality system elements. It is left to manufacturers to determine the necessity for, or extent of, some quality elements and to develop and implement procedures tailored to their particular processes and devices. For example, if it is impossible to mix up labels at a manufacturer because there is only one label to each product, then there is no necessity for the manufacturer to comply with all of the GMP requirements under device labeling.\n\nDrug manufactures are regulated under a different section of the Code of Federal Regulations:\n\nThe International Organization for Standardization's ISO 9001:2015 series describes standards for a QMS addressing the principles and processes surrounding the design, development, and delivery of a general product or service. Organizations can participate in a continuing certification process to ISO 9001:2008 to demonstrate their compliance with the standard, which includes a requirement for continual (i.e. planned) improvement of the QMS, as well as more foundational QMS components such as failure mode and effects analysis (FMEA).\n\n(ISO 9000:2005 provides information on the fundamentals and vocabulary used in quality management systems. ISO 9004:2009 provides guidance on quality management approach for the sustained success of an organization. Neither of these standards can be used for certification purposes as they provide guidance, not requirements).\n\nThe Baldrige Performance Excellence Program educates organizations in improving their performance and administers the Malcolm Baldrige National Quality Award. The Baldrige Award recognizes U.S. organizations for performance excellence based on the Baldrige Criteria for Performance Excellence. The Criteria address critical aspects of management that contribute to performance excellence: leadership; strategy; customers; measurement, analysis, and knowledge management; workforce; operations; and results.\n\nThe European Foundation for Quality Management's EFQM Excellence Model supports an award scheme similar to the Baldrige Award for European companies.\n\nIn Canada, the National Quality Institute presents the 'Canada Awards for Excellence' on an annual basis to organizations that have displayed outstanding performance in the areas of Quality and Workplace Wellness, and have met the Institute's criteria with documented overall achievements and results.\n\nThe European Quality in Social Service (EQUASS) is a sector-specific quality system designed for the social services sector and addresses quality principles that are specific to service delivery to vulnerable groups, such as empowerment, rights, and person-centredness. \n\nThe Alliance for Performance Excellence is a network of state and local organizations that use the Baldrige Criteria for Performance Excellence at the grassroots level to improve the performance of local organizations and economies. browsers can find Alliance members in their state and get the latest news and events from the Baldrige community.\n\nA QMS process is an element of an organizational QMS. The ISO9001:2000 standard requires organizations seeking compliance or certification to define the processes which form the QMS and the sequence and interaction of these processes. Butterworth-Heinemann and other publishers have offered several books which provide step-by-step guides to those seeking the quality certifications of their products \n\nExamples of such processes include:\n\n\nISO9001 requires that the performance of these processes be measured, analyzed and continually improved, and the results of this form an input into the management review process.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11873032", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11873032", "title": "Republican marriage", "text": "Republican marriage\n\nRepublican marriage () was a method of execution that allegedly occurred in Nantes during the Reign of Terror in Revolutionary France and \"involved tying a naked man and woman together and drowning them\". This was reported to have been practised during the drownings at Nantes (\"noyades\") that were ordered by local Jacobin representative-on-mission Jean-Baptiste Carrier between November 1793 and January 1794 in the city of Nantes. Most accounts indicate that the victims were drowned in the Loire River, although a few sources describe an alternative means of execution in which the bound couple is run through with a sword, either before, or instead of drowning.\n\nThe earliest reports of such \"marriages\" date from 1794, when Carrier was tried for his crimes, and they were soon cited by contemporary counter-revolutionary authors such as Louis-Marie Prudhomme and Louis Gabriel Ambroise de Bonald.\n\nThis form of execution is attributed to French Revolutionary Jean-Baptiste Carrier, who was sent to Nantes to suppress the counterrevolutionary forces and to appoint a Revolutionary Committee. One historian described the use of the practice as follows:\n\nDetails of the practice vary slightly, but are generally consistent with the description offered above. One author described how \"marriages Républicains... consisted in binding together a man and woman, back to back, stripped naked, keeping them exposed for an hour, and then hurling them into the current of \"la Baignoire Nationale\", as the bloodhounds termed the Loire\". British radical and Girondist sympathizer Helen Maria Williams, in her \"Sketch of the Politics of France, 1793–94\", wrote that \"innocent young women were unclothed in the presence of the monsters; and, to add a deeper horror to this infernal act of cruelty, were tied to young men, and both were cut down with sabers, or thrown into the river; and this kind of murder was called a republican marriage\".\n\nWhile the executions of men, women and children by drowning in Nantes is not generally disputed, the factual nature of the \"republican marriages,\" in particular, has been doubted by several historians who alleged it to be a legend.. The claim that such a manner of execution has been practiced and ordered by Carrier appears for the first time in the trial of the members of the Revolutionary Committee of Nantes by the Revolutionary Tribunal in 1794. It was present in the report of Charles-Gilbert Romme and in several letters and witness testimonies. However, while a few witnesses asserted that they had heard about \"republican marriages\", none had actually seen one; one cited a drunken boatman who had used the term \"civic marriage\" but hadn't suggested that the executed were paired according to sex. As both the assistant-prosecutor and the defence mentioned, there was not enough evidence for that particular accusation, and it was crossed out from the indictment by the president of the jury. The remaining facts were entirely sufficient for Carrier and several of his closest accomplices to be sentenced to death. The reports of \"republican marriages\" nevertheless became well-known and were later cited by many authors writing about the Terror, who would elaborate on them, for example by adding the claim that the two victims were a priest and a nun.\n\nThe use of the term appears to be a mockery of the concept of \"republican marriage\" as an actual \"secular\" marriage. Books describe parents horrified to learn that their children planned a \"republican marriage\" instead of being married in a church. As one source describes the institution:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32975548", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32975548", "title": "Rodrigo Guerrero", "text": "Rodrigo Guerrero\n\nRodrigo Guerrero (born January 10, 1988 in Mexico City) is a Mexican professional boxer and former IBF Super Flyweight Champion.\n\nIn July 2008, Rodrigo defeated Juan Alberto Rosas to win the WBC Continental Americas Bantamweight Championship.\n\nOn October 8, 2011 Guerrero upset Raúl Martínez to win the IBF Super Flyweight Championship.\n\n"}
{"id": "13891206", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13891206", "title": "Salt and Sauce", "text": "Salt and Sauce\n\nSalt (c. 1900-1952) and Sauce (c. 1900-1960) were once two of Britain's most famous and notorious performing elephants (various sources including \"The English Circus and Fair Ground\" by Sir Garrard Tywhitt-Drake).\n\nSalt and Sauce were owned and presented by some of the most famous show business people of their era. Their owners included Carl Hagenbeck, George William Lockhart, Herbet \"Captain Joe\" Taylor, John \"Broncho Bill\" Swallow, Dudley Zoo, Tom Fossett, Dennis Fossett, Harry Coady and Billy Butlin. Their presenters included Ivor Rosaire and Emily Paulo. Formerly members and believed to be the longest suriviving members of George William Lockhart's \"Cruet\", they were featured in various books, newspapers and magazines in their day, and are the focus of a new book \"The Legend of Salt and Sauce\". The elephants were famed for their vast array of tricks, but also feared for their temperamental moods. Sauce (known as \"Saucy\" most of the time) killed George William Lockhart (her owner and trainer) in an accident at Walthamstow Station and Salt killed William Aslett (an elephant groom) when she attacked him in 1957 on Rosaire's Circus.\n\nDespite both Salt suffering dropsy symptoms that had already killed two other members of \"The Cruet\" she went on to live for five decades. Her death was well documented in the Cambridge local press (source: The Legend of Salt and Sauce) when she accidentally got stuck in Vauxhall lake whilst touring with Ringland's Circus in 1952. After seven hours and with the aid of a crane she was freed from the lake, but suffered from pneumonia and died after a week. According to the local press over a hundred wreaths were left for her at the circus. It was predicted that her lifelong companion, Sauce, would die soon afterwards (source: Salt and Sauce were Separated by John D. Swallow), but she lived until 1960, dying from \"natural causes\".\n\nSalt and Sauce were booked on numerous famous British circuses (source: \"World's Fair\", \"King Pole\" magazine, various programmes, \"The Victorian Arena\" by John Turner and \"The Legend of Salt and Sauce\" by Jamie Clubb). Confirmed buildings they worked in included The Lyceum, Norwich Hippodrome, Blackpool Tower, Great Yarmouth Hippodrome and World's Fair Islington. Circuses included Tom Sylvester's, Bertram Mills' Circus, Billy Smart, Sr.'s Circus, Broncho Bill's Circus, Rosaire's Circus, Paulo's Circus, Ringland's Circus and Cody's Circus (Sauce only) among many others. \nAccording to an article written in the \"World's Fair\" newspaper, the two elephants were also featured in the film Elephant Boy.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8709281", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8709281", "title": "Shoko Nakagawa", "text": "Shoko Nakagawa\n\nBorn to actor and musician Katsuhiko Nakagawa, a celebrity in Japan in the 1980s, she was raised by her mother in Nakano (Katsuhiko Nakagawa died in 1994). In the 2006 book , she wrote that her legal name was rather than , which she had been using for most of her life. At the time of her birth, she and her mother had to remain in the hospital, and her maternal aunt was left with registering her in the \"koseki\". When her mother's intended name of was declined due to being forbidden due to Japanese law, the aunt wrote the name down in hiragana and recorded her name with a large \"yo\" rather than its smaller combining form. She made her entertainment debut in 2001, winning the Grand Prix award at the Popolo Girl Audition and representing the Jackie Chan talent agency. Later, on the \"Yume-Ga-Oka Residence\" programme on SKY PerfecTV!, she was given a Jackie Chan photobook by Midorikawa Shobō, who were guests on the show. She commented \"I thought he was an enemy of Bruce Lee's\", apparently referring to \"Enter the Dragon\". \nIn 2002, she was chosen as Miss Shōnen Magazine. She appeared in a brief section of \"Kangaeru Hito\" (\"People who think\") on the Fuji TV network in 2004 as an illustrator, after which she appeared regularly on the later version of the programme which started with minor changes in early 2005, \"Kangaeru Hitokoma\" (\"Thinking about one frame [of a cartoon strip]\"). For one year starting in May 2005, she appeared as a regular on the TBS programme \"Ōsama no Brunch\". In July 2006, she released her debut single \"Brilliant Dream\". It entered the Oricon chart at number 29, with initial sales of 6313 copies. Nakagawa performed at Anime Expo 2008 at the Los Angeles Convention Center.\n\nIn 2004, she made a guest appearance in the 38th episode of \"Tokusou Sentai Dekaranger\", after having previously appeared as a child in \"Chikyuu Sentai Fiveman\".She later appeared with Katsumura on \"Men B\". On the Fuji TV show \"Kangaeru Hitokoma\", on which she is an occasional guest, she drew in the style of Kazuo Umezu. Some of her work was shown on the May 11, 2006 edition of \"Downtown Deluxe\" on the Nippon TV network, She was a member of the judging panel in the \"Jump Damashii\" section of the Shūeisha publication Weekly Shōnen Jump, starting from Jump number 13 of 2006.\n\nOn the May 30, 2006 airing of \"Kasupe!\", in the section entitled , \"Fuji Bank Celebrity Evaluator\", it was discovered that she liked the manga \"Kachō Shima Kōsaku\", eliciting a comment from the host, Sayaka Aoki, that she had pretty \"grown-up tastes\".\n\nIn 2009, she appeared in a series of commercials for Norton AntiVirus.\n\nHer official blog, \"Shokotan * Blog\", opened in 2004, and by April 2006 it had received a total of 100 million hits. On February 2, 2008, the daily Japanese newspaper \"Mainichi Shimbun\" reported that her blog had been accessed 1 billion times.\n\n\n\n\nShe also has voiced characters in every Pokémon movie since 2007.\n\nShoko Nakagawa is signed to Sony Japan.\n\n"}
{"id": "4328820", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4328820", "title": "Sotsha Dlamini", "text": "Sotsha Dlamini\n\nSotsha Ernest Dlamini (27 May 1940 – 7 February 2017) was Prime Minister of Swaziland from 6 October 1986 to 12 July 1989. He was born in Mankayane.\n\nDlamini died on 7 February 2017, aged 76.\n"}
{"id": "52239302", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52239302", "title": "Stephanus Parmenius", "text": "Stephanus Parmenius\n\nStephanus Parmenius (; c. 1555 – 29 August 1583) was a Hungarian scholar and Humanist poet who traveled to Oxford and became involved in the English exploration of the New World. He joined Humphrey Gilbert's expedition to North America with the intention of writing a chronicle of the voyage and its discoveries. Parmenius reached Newfoundland, likely becoming the first Hungarian in the New World. However, he died on the return voyage in 1583 when his ship was lost at sea.\n\nParmenius was probably born sometime between 1555 and 1560 in Buda which had been under Ottoman rule since 1541. His parents are not known, but he was raised as a Protestant, possibly a Calvinist, and received a privileged classical education in Hungary. In 1579 he was sent on a tour of European universities to complete his education. He went first to Heidelberg University and studied there for two years.\n\nIn 1581 he traveled to England where he came under the patronage of Henry Unton. He settled in Oxford where he befriended the president of Magdalen College, Laurence Humfrey and lodged with Richard Hakluyt at Christ Church. In 1582 he wrote his first Latin poem, \"Paean\" or \"Thanksgiving Hymn\", dedicated to Unton and printed by Thomas Vautrollier.\n\nAt this time Hakluyt was working closely with Humphrey Gilbert to plan a voyage of exploration and settlement in North America. Hakluyt introduced Parmenius to Gilbert who must have been favorably impressed with the young Hungarian. Parmenius was excited by the proposed expedition and wrote another long Latin poem, \"De Navigatione\" which honored English explorers and hailed Gilbert's plans to found a colony in the New World. Gilbert arranged to have the poem published and paid part of the printing costs.\n\nAs preparations for Gilbert's voyage proceeded, Parmenius took the opportunity to join the expedition and serve as chronicler of the enterprise. On 11 June 1583 they set sail from Plymouth with a fleet of five ships. Parmenius was aboard the \"Swallow\", a small frigate that had been engaged in piracy and was subsequently seized by Gilbert and pressed into his service.\n\nThe outward voyage took longer than expected and supplies ran low. Finally, the ships reached landfall at St. John’s harbor, Newfoundland, on 3 August 1583. They were not the first Europeans to reach the site—the harbor was a seasonal camp for the fishing vessels from England, Portugal, France and Spain. The expedition remained there for a couple weeks, levying supplies from the fishing camp and exploring the countryside. Parmenius was not overly impressed with his first experience in the New World. In a letter to Hakluyt, he wrote of the impenetrable pine forests, the weather, and his disappointment at not meeting any native peoples. He expressed the hope that the country would improve as they traveled further south along the coast.\n\nOn August 20 they set sail again with plans to explore further south. Parmenius switched ships and joined the crew on the \"Delight\". On August 29 his ship encountered shallow waters, went aground and quickly broke up in bad weather off the coast of Sable Island. Some crew members survived but Parmenius was drowned.\n\nA companion who survived, Edward Hayes, paid tribute to Parmenius with these words: \"Amongst whom was drowned a learned man, an Hungarian, borne in the citie of Buda, called thereof Budaeus, who of pietie and zeale to good attempts, adventured in this action, minding to record in the Latin tongue, the gests and things of our nation, the same being adorned with the eloquent stile of this Orator, and rare Poet of our time.\"\n\nThe one surviving letter from Parmenius was included by Hakluyt in the second edition of \"The Principal Navigations\" (1600).\n\n"}
{"id": "42922637", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42922637", "title": "Symbolic regression", "text": "Symbolic regression\n\nSymbolic regression is a type of regression analysis that searches the space of mathematical expressions to find the model that best fits a given dataset, both in terms of accuracy and simplicity. No particular model is provided as a starting point to the algorithm. Instead, initial expressions are formed by randomly combining mathematical building blocks such as mathematical operators, analytic functions, constants, and state variables. (Usually, a subset of these primitives will be specified by the person operating it, but that's not a requirement of the technique.) New equations are then formed by recombining previous equations, using genetic programming.\n\nBy not requiring a specific model to be specified, symbolic regression isn't affected by human bias, or unknown gaps in domain knowledge. It attempts to uncover the intrinsic relationships of the dataset, by letting the patterns in the data itself reveal the appropriate models, rather than imposing a model structure that is deemed mathematically tractable from a human perspective. The fitness function that drives the evolution of the models takes into account not only error metrics (to ensure the models accurately predict the data), but also special complexity measures, thus ensuring that the resulting models reveal the data's underlying structure in a way that's understandable from a human perspective. This facilitates reasoning and favors the odds of getting insights about the data-generating system.\n\nWhile conventional regression techniques seek to optimize the parameters for a pre-specified model structure, symbolic regression avoids imposing prior assumptions, and instead infers the model from the data. In other words, it attempts to discover both model structures and model parameters.\n\nThis approach has, of course, the disadvantage of having a much larger space to search — in fact, not only the search space in symbolic regression is infinite, but there are an infinite number of models which will perfectly fit a finite data set (provided that the model complexity isn't artificially limited). This means that it will possibly take a symbolic regression algorithm much longer to find an appropriate model and parametrization, than traditional regression techniques. This can be attenuated by limiting the set of building blocks provided to the algorithm, based on existing knowledge of the system that produced the data; but in the end, using symbolic regression is a decision that has to be balanced with how much is known about the underlying system.\n\nNevertheless, this characteristic of symbolic regression also has advantages: because the evolutionary algorithm requires diversity in order to effectively explore the search space, the end result is likely to be a selection of high-scoring models (and their corresponding set of parameters). Examining this collection could provide better insight into the underlying process, and allows the user to identify an approximation that better fits their needs in terms of accuracy and simplicity.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49507448", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49507448", "title": "Teodoro Escanilla", "text": "Teodoro Escanilla\n\nTeodoro Escanilla, also known as Tio Todoy, ( – 27 August 2015), was a Filipino blocktimer who hosted the public affairs commentary show \"Pamana ng Lahi\" (lit. A Race's Legacy) for the Radio dzMS radio station, an affiliate of the PBN Broadcasting Network, in Sorsogon City, Sorsogon, Bicol Region, Philippines. Escanilla was also involved in politics and human rights in Sorsogan and served as both chairman of the political party Anakpawis and spokesperson for the human rights group Karapatan.\n\nTeodoro Escanilla was a well known human rights leader in the Sorsogon province. He was the spokesperson for the human rights group Karapatan, Sorsogon. He was also a chairmen of the local Anakpawis political party, which is a party affiliated with the Kilusang Mayo Uno union that advocates labor issues on behalf of peasants and workers.\n\nIn addition, Tio Todoy was a block timer for Radio dzMS in Sorsogon City for about 10 years before his death. He used his show \"Pamana ng Lahi\" to criticize the military and bring public attention to human rights abuses. Sympathizers had warned him that he was in the military's \"hit list\" because of the work he did on his radio show, but Escanilla continued to broadcast his human rights advocacy. In 2014, the military detained a person and offered him money to kill Escanilla, according to those who warned him.\n\nAround six men on three motorcycles arrived at Teodoro Escanilla's family compound in the Tadon village, Barcelona town, Sorsogon province shortly before midnight on Wednesday, 19 August, 2015 as Escanilla and his wife were entertaining a guest. He went to see what the men wanted and they shot him eight times. Five of the shots were from an M-16 rifle and the other three were from a .45 caliber pistol. His wife screamed at the attackers but could not identify them. Escanilla was rushed to the Sorsogon Medical Mission Group Hospital Health Services Cooperative where he died eight days later. The police immediately formed a task force to investigate.\n\nTeodoro Escanilla was 56-years old at the time he was murdered. He was survived by his wife.\n\nReporters Without Borders ranked the Philippines 141 out of 180 for press freedom and among the most dangerous countries for journalists in 2015. Over 40 other radio \"block timers,\" or radio hosts who buy time from radio stations, had been killed since 2002 by the time Escanilla was murdered. News organizations noted that his murder followed by one day the murder of Gregorio “Loloy” Ybañez, publisher of Kabuhayan News Services. Beside Ybañez and Escanilla, other journalists killed in 2015 include Cosme Maestrado, August 27, and Jose Bernardo, October 31.\n\nEscanilla was actively involved in radio commentary and human rights, political activity that was critical of the military's anti-insurgency campaign in the Bicol area. It possible that these attacks were the result of the state's military counter-insurgency campaign as documented by Karapatan.\n\nA spokesperson for the Malacañang Press Corps issued the statement, \"We condemn the killing of Teodoro Escanilla. The authorities will go after the suspects and will bring them to face justice.\"\n\nThe Sorsogon chapter of the National Union of Journalists of the Philippines said, \"We ... call on the authorities to get to the bottom of this latest incident which threatens to once again plunge the province into chaos and bring back the dark years of retaliatory killings which have caused the death of several human rights advocates and state agents.\"\n\nThe human rights and political community also had strong reactions to his death:\n\n\"Many more Ka Tudoys will spring forth from the ranks of the oppressed masses despite of his killing,\" said Escanilla's colleague from the human rights organization Karapatan.\n\nKarapatan released the following statement: \"We also call on all people to condemn in the strongest term possible this senseless and cold-blooded killing which has no place in a society if it calls itself civilized and democratic... The perpetrators of this killing are as bestial and demonic as their deed which could only be found in military camps and garrisons of a police and Hitlerian state that has no regard to the sanctity of life and respect for the human rights of the people.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "54500603", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54500603", "title": "The Continence of Scipio (Gerbrand van den Eeckhout)", "text": "The Continence of Scipio (Gerbrand van den Eeckhout)\n\nThe Continence of Scipio () is a circa 1653 painting by Dutch artist Gerbrand van den Eeckhout. It shows the continence of Scipio and is now in the collection of the Rijksmuseum in Amsterdam.\n\nThe painting shows the moment when Scipio informs the groom that he can have his bride, as well as the riches that the bride's parents have just paid in ransom. Of the riches displayed, the ewer of the Amsterdam silversmith's guild, a famous silver object by Adam van Vianen, is also in the Rijksmuseum collection. Van den Eeckhout made another version of the same subject, that also features the ewer (lying on its side), which is now in the collection of the Toledo Museum of Art:\nThis painting is one of several paintings in the collection of art dealer D. Katz that were taken to the Führer museum in Linz. After WWII it was returned with other Nazi looted art to the Netherlands and has been on loan to the Rijksmuseum since. In 1966 it was noticed by the silver curator of art in the museum, Theresia M. Duyvené de Wit Klinkhamer, who included it in her overview of paintings that show the Adam van Vianen ewer. \n"}
{"id": "44379481", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44379481", "title": "Utopian socialism", "text": "Utopian socialism\n\nUtopian socialism is a label used to define the first currents of modern socialist thought as exemplified by the work of Henri de Saint-Simon, Charles Fourier, Étienne Cabet and Robert Owen.\n\nUtopian socialism is often described as the presentation of visions and outlines for imaginary or futuristic ideal societies, with positive ideals being the main reason for moving society in such a direction. Later socialists and critics of utopian socialism viewed \"utopian socialism\" as not being grounded in actual material conditions of existing society and in some cases as reactionary. These visions of ideal societies competed with Marxist-inspired revolutionary social democratic movements. The term is most often applied to those socialists who lived in the first quarter of the 19th century who were ascribed the label \"utopian\" by later socialists as a pejorative in order to imply \"naiveté\" and to dismiss their ideas as fanciful and unrealistic. A similar school of thought that emerged in the early 20th century is ethical socialism, which makes the case for socialism on moral grounds.\n\nHowever, one key difference between utopian socialists and other socialists (including most anarchists) is that utopian socialists generally do not believe any form of class struggle or political revolution is necessary for socialism to emerge. Utopians believe that people of all classes can voluntarily adopt their plan for society if it is presented convincingly. They feel their form of cooperative socialism can be established among like-minded people within the existing society and that their small communities can demonstrate the feasibility of their plan for society.\n\nThe thinkers identified as utopian socialist did not use the term \"utopian\" to refer to their ideas. Karl Marx and Friedrich Engels were the first thinkers to refer to them as \"utopian\", referring to all socialist ideas that simply presented a vision and distant goal of an ethically just society as utopian. This utopian mindset which held an integrated conception of the goal, the means to produce said goal and an understanding of the way that those means would inevitably be produced through examining social and economic phenomena can be contrasted with scientific socialism, which has been likened to Taylorism.\n\nThis distinction was made clear in Engels' work \"\" (1892, part of an earlier publication, the \"Anti-Dühring\" from 1878). Utopian socialists were seen as wanting to expand the principles of the French revolution in order to create a more \"rational\" society. Despite being labeled as utopian by later socialists, their aims were not always utopian and their values often included rigid support for the scientific method and the creation of a society based upon scientific understanding.\n\nThe term \"utopian socialism\" was introduced by Karl Marx in \"For a Ruthless Criticism of Everything\" in 1843 (and then developed in \"The Communist Manifesto\" in 1848), although shortly before its publication Marx had already attacked the ideas of Pierre-Joseph Proudhon in \"Das Elend der Philosophie\" (originally written in French, 1847). The term was used by later socialist thinkers to describe early socialist or quasi-socialist intellectuals who created hypothetical visions of egalitarian, communalist, meritocratic, or other notions of \"perfect\" societies without considering how these societies could be created or sustained.\n\nIn \"Das Elend der Philosophie\", English title \"The Poverty of Philosophy\", Marx criticized the economic and philosophical arguments of Proudhon set forth in \"The System of Economic Contradictions, or The Philosophy of Poverty\". Marx accused Proudhon of wanting to rise above the bourgeoisie. In the history of Marx's thought and Marxism, this work is pivotal in the distinction between the concepts of utopian socialism and what Marx and the Marxists claimed as scientific socialism.\n\nAlthough utopian socialists shared few political, social, or economic perspectives, Marx and Engels argued that they shared certain intellectual characteristics. In \"The Communist Manifesto\", Marx and Engels wrote: \"The undeveloped state of the class struggle, as well as their own surroundings, causes Socialists of this kind to consider themselves far superior to all class antagonisms. They want to improve the condition of every member of society, even that of the most favored. Hence, they habitually appeal to society at large, without distinction of class; nay, by preference, to the ruling class. For how can people, when once they understand their system, fail to see it in the best possible plan of the best possible state of society? Hence, they reject all political, and especially all revolutionary, action; they wish to attain their ends by peaceful means, and endeavor, by small experiments, necessarily doomed to failure, and by the force of example, to pave the way for the new social Gospel\".\n\nMarx and Engels used the term \"scientific socialism\" to describe the type of socialism they saw themselves developing. According to Engels, socialism was not \"an accidental discovery of this or that ingenious brain, but the necessary outcome of the struggle between two historically developed classesthe proletariat and the bourgeoisie. Its task was no longer to manufacture a system of society as perfect as possible, but to examine the historical-economic succession of events from which these classes and their antagonism had of necessity sprung, and to discover in the economic conditions thus created the means of ending the conflict\".\n\nCritics have argued that utopian socialists who established experimental communities were in fact trying to apply the scientific method to human social organization and were therefore not utopian. For instance, Joshua Muravchik on the basis of Karl Popper's definition of science as \"the practice of experimentation, of hypothesis and test\" argued that \"Owen and Fourier and their followers were the real ‘scientific socialists.’ They hit upon the idea of socialism, and they tested it by attempting to form socialist communities\". Muravchik further argued that in contrast Marx made untestable predictions about the future and that Marx's view that socialism would be created by impersonal historical forces may lead one to conclude that it is unnecessary to strive for socialism because it will happen anyway.\n\nSince the mid-19th century, Marxism and Marxism–Leninism overtook utopian socialism in terms of intellectual development and number of adherents. At one time almost half the population of the world lived under regimes that claimed to be Marxist. Currents like Saint-Simonianism and Fourierism attracted the interest of numerous later authors but failed to compete with the now dominant Marxist, Proudhonist, or Leninist schools on a political level. It has been noted that they exerted a significant influence on the emergence of new religious movements such as spiritualism and occultism.\n\nPerhaps the first utopian socialist was Thomas More (1478–1535), who wrote about an imaginary socialist society in his book \"Utopia\", published in 1516. The contemporary definition of the English word \"utopia\" derives from this work and many aspects of More's description of Utopia were influenced by life in monasteries.\n\nSaint-Simonianism was a French political and social movement of the first half of the 19th century, inspired by the ideas of Claude Henri de Rouvroy, comte de Saint-Simon (1760–1825). His ideas influenced Auguste Comte (who was, for a time, Saint-Simon's secretary), Karl Marx, John Stuart Mill and many other thinkers and social theorists.\n\nRobert Owen (1771–1858) was a successful Welsh businessman who devoted much of his profits to improving the lives of his employees. His reputation grew when he set up a textile factory in New Lanark, Scotland, co-funded by his teacher, the utilitarian Jeremy Bentham and introduced shorter working hours, schools for children and renovated housing. He wrote about his ideas in his book \"A New View of Society\" which was published in 1813 and \"An Explanation of the Cause of Distress which pervades the civilized parts of the world\" in 1823. He also set up an Owenite commune called New Harmony in Indiana. This collapsed when one of his business partners ran off with all the profits. Owen's main contribution to socialist thought was the view that human social behavior is not fixed or absolute and that humans have the free will to organize themselves into any kind of society they wished.\n\nCharles Fourier (1772–1837) rejected the industrial revolution altogether and thus the problems that arose with it, Fourier made various fanciful claims about the ideal world he envisioned. Despite some clearly non-socialist inclinations, he contributed significantly even if indirectly to the socialist movement. His writings about turning work into play influenced the young Karl Marx and helped him devise his theory of alienation. Also a contributor to feminism, Fourier invented the concept of \"phalanstère\", units of people based on a theory of passions and of their combination. Several colonies based on Fourier's ideas were founded in the United States by Albert Brisbane and Horace Greeley.\n\nÉtienne Cabet (1788–1856), influenced by Robert Owen, published a book in 1840 entitled \"Travel and adventures of Lord William Carisdall in Icaria\" in which he described an ideal communalist society. His attempts to form real socialist communities based on his ideas through the Icarian movement did not survive, but one such community was the precursor of Corning, Iowa. Possibly inspired by Christianity, he coined the word \"communism\" and influenced other thinkers, including Marx and Engels.\n\nEdward Bellamy (1850–1898) published \"Looking Backward\" in 1888, a utopian romance novel about a future socialist society. In Bellamy's utopia, property was held in common and money replaced with a system of equal credit for all. Valid for a year and non-transferable between individuals, credit expenditure was to be tracked via \"credit-cards\" (which bear no resemblance to modern credit cards which are tools of debt-finance). Labour was compulsory from age 21 to 40 and organised via various departments of an Industrial Army to which most citizens belonged. Working hours were to be cut drastically due to technological advances (including organisational). People were expected to be motivated by a Religion of Solidarity and criminal behavior was treated as a form of mental illness or \"atavism\". The book ranked as second or third best seller of its time (after \"Uncle Tom's Cabin\" and \"Ben Hur\"). In 1897, Bellamy published a sequel entitled \"Equality\" as a reply to his critics and which lacked the Industrial Army and other authoritarian aspects.\n\nWilliam Morris (1834–1896) published \"News from Nowhere\" in 1890, partly as a response to Bellamy's \"Looking Backwards\", which he equated with the socialism of Fabians such as Sydney Webb. Morris' vision of the future socialist society was centred around his concept of useful work as opposed to useless toil and the redemption of human labour. Morris believed that all work should be artistic, in the sense that the worker should find it both pleasurable and an outlet for creativity. Morris' conception of labour thus bears strong resemblance to Fourier's, while Bellamy's (the reduction of labour) is more akin to that of Saint-Simon or in aspects Marx.\n\nThe Brotherhood Church in Britain and the Life and Labor Commune in Russia were based on the Christian anarchist ideas of Leo Tolstoy (1828–1910).\n\nPierre-Joseph Proudhon (1809–1865) and Peter Kropotkin (1842–1921) wrote about anarchist forms of socialism in their books. Proudhon wrote \"What is Property?\" (1840) and \"The System of Economic Contradictions, or The Philosophy of Poverty\" (1847). Kropotkin wrote \"The Conquest of Bread\" (1892) and \"Fields, Factories and Workshops\" (1912). Many of the anarchist collectives formed in Spain, especially in Aragon and Catalonia, during the Spanish Civil War were based on their ideas.\n\nMany participants in the historical kibbutz movement in Israel were motivated by utopian socialist ideas.\n\nAugustin Souchy (1892–1984) spent most of his life investigating and participating in many kinds of socialist communities. Souchy wrote about his experiences in his autobiography \"Beware! Anarchist!\".\n\nBehavioral psychologist B.F. Skinner (1904–1990) published \"Walden Two\" in 1948. The Twin Oaks Community was originally based on his ideas.\n\nUrsula K. Le Guin (born 1929) wrote about an impoverished anarchist society in her book \"The Dispossessed\" published in 1974 and in which the anarchists agree to leave their home planet and colonize a barely habitable moon in order to avoid a bloody revolution.\n\nSome communities of the modern intentional community movement, such as kibbutzim, could be categorized as utopian socialist.\n\nFor example, religious sects whose members live communally such as the Hutterites or Bruderhof Communities are not usually called \"utopian socialists\", although their way of living is a prime example. They have been categorized as religious socialists by some.\n\nClassless modes of production in hunter-gatherer societies are referred to as \"primitive communism\" by Marxists to stress their classless nature.\n\nA related concept is that of a socialist utopia, usually depicted in works of fiction as possible ways society can turn out to be in the future and often combined with notions of a technologically revolutionized economy.\n\n\nUtopian communities have existed all over the world. In various forms and locations, they have existed continuously in the United States since the 1730s, beginning with Ephrata Cloister, a religious community in what is now Lancaster County, Pennsylvania.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1194496", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1194496", "title": "Value of control", "text": "Value of control\n\nThe value of control is a quantitative measure of the value of controlling the outcome of an uncertain variable. Decision analysis provides a means for calculating the value of both perfect and imperfect control. The former value, informally known as the value of wizardry, is an upper bound for the latter. Obtaining meaningful value-of-control measurements requires an awareness of important restrictions (concerning the nature of free will and the meaning of counterfactual statements) on the validity of this kind of analysis.\n\n"}
{"id": "245829", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=245829", "title": "War Resisters League", "text": "War Resisters League\n\nThe War Resisters League (WRL) is the oldest secular pacifist organization in the United States. \n\nFounded in 1923 by men and women who had opposed World War I, it is a section of the London-based War Resisters' International. It continues to be one of the leading radical voices in the anti-war movement.\n\nMany of the organization's founders had been jailed during World War I for refusing military service. From the Fellowship of Reconciliation many Jews, suffragists, socialists, and anarchists separated to form this more secular organization.\n\nAlthough the WRL was opposed to US participation in World War II, it did not protest against it; the WRL complied with the Espionage Act, ceased public protests, and did not solicit new members during this period. During World War II, many members were imprisoned as conscientious objectors. In the 1950s, WRL members worked in the civil rights movement and organized protests against nuclear weapons testing and civil defense drills.\n\nIn the 1960s, WRL was the first pacifist organization to call for an end to the Vietnam War. WRL also organized the first demonstration against the war with a September 21, 1963 vigil at the U.S. Mission to the UN, followed by an October 9, 1963 picket of Madame Ngo Dinh Nhu speaking at the Waldorf-Astoria in New York City. WRL was among the primary groups (along with Committee for Nonviolent Action, the Fellowship of Reconciliation, the Socialist Party, and the Student Peace Union) to organize coordinated nationwide protests against the Vietnam War on December 19, 1964.\n\nThe organization's opposition to nuclear weapons was extended to include nuclear power in the 1970s and 1980s. The WRL has also been active in feminist and anti-racist causes and works with other organizations to reduce the level of violence in modern culture.\n\nPresently, the War Resisters League is actively organizing against the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan as well as the impact of war at home. Much of its organizing is focused on challenging military recruiters and ending corporate profit from war. It publishes an annual peace calendar, the quarterly magazine \"WIN: Through Revolutionary Nonviolence\", and other materials and is involved in a number of national peace and justice coalitions, including United for Peace and Justice and the National War Tax Resistance Coordinating Committee. Since 1958, WRL has awarded almost annually the War Resisters League Peace Award to a person or organization whose work represents the League's radical nonviolent program of action.\n\nThe War Resisters League annually publishes a pie chart showing how much of the U.S. federal budget actually covers current and past military expenses, listing the total as 54%:\n\nThese figures are at odds with official government figures: \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5398474", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5398474", "title": "Wilkes Land crater", "text": "Wilkes Land crater\n\nWilkes Land crater is an informal term that may apply to two separate cases of conjectured giant impact craters hidden beneath the ice cap of Wilkes Land, East Antarctica. These are separated below under the heading Wilkes Land anomaly and Wilkes Land mascon (mass concentration), based on terms used in their principal published reference sources.\n\nA giant impact crater beneath the Wilkes Land ice sheet was first proposed by R. A. Schmidt in 1962 on the basis of the seismic and gravity discovery of the feature made by the U.S. Victoria Land Traverse in 1959–60 (VLT), and the data provided to Schmidt by J. G. Weihaupt, geophysicist of the VLT (Geophysical Studies in Victoria Land, Antarctica, Report No. 1, Geophysical and Polar Research Center, University of Wisconsin, 1–123).\n\nSchmidt further considered the possibility that it might be the elusive source of the tektites of the Australasian strewnfield (which is only 790,000 years old).\nThe hypothesis was detailed in a paper by J. G. Weihaupt in 1976. Evidence cited included a large negative gravity anomaly coincident with a subglacial topographic depression across and having a minimum depth of .\n\nThe claims were challenged by C. R. Bentley in 1979. On the basis of a 2010 paper by J. G. Weihaupt et al., Bentley's challenge was proven to be incorrect, and the Earth Impact Database (Rajmon 2011) has now reclassified the Wilkes Land Anomaly from a \"possible impact crater\" to a \"probable impact crater\" on the basis of Weihaupt et al.'s paper. Several other potential impact crater sites have now been proposed by other investigators in the Ross Sea, West Antarctica, and the Weddell Sea.\n\nThe Wilkes Land mass concentration (or \"mascon\") is centered at and was first reported at a conference in May 2006 by a team of researchers led by Ralph von Frese and Laramie Potts of Ohio State University.\n\nThe team used gravity measurements by NASA's GRACE satellites to identify a wide mass concentration and noted that this mass anomaly is centered within a larger ring-like structure visible in radar images of the land surface beneath the Antarctic ice cap. This combination suggested to them that the feature may mark the site of a wide impact crater buried beneath the ice and more than 2.5 times larger than the Chicxulub crater.\n\nDue to the site's location beneath the Antarctic ice sheet there are no direct samples to test for evidence of impact. There are alternative explanations for this mass concentration, such as formation by a mantle plume or other large-scale volcanic activity. If this feature really is an impact crater then, based on the size of the ring structure, it has been suggested by Frese's team that the impactor could have been four or five times wider than the Chicxulub impactor, which is believed to have caused the Cretaceous–Paleogene extinction event.\n\nBecause mass concentrations on Earth are expected to dissipate over time, Frese and his collaborators believe the structure must be less than 500 million years old and also note that it appears to have been disturbed by the rift valley that formed 100 million years ago during the separation of Australia from the Gondwana supercontinent.\n\nThese researchers therefore speculate that the putative impact and associated crater may have contributed to this separation by weakening the earth's crust at this location. These bracketing dates also make it possible that the site could be associated with the Permian–Triassic extinction event. The Permian–Triassic extinction occurred 250 million years ago and is believed to be the largest extinction event since the origin of complex multicellular life.\n\nPlate reconstructions for the Permian–Triassic boundary place the putative crater directly antipodal to the Siberian Traps, and Frese et al. (2009) use the controversial theory that impacts can trigger massive volcanism at their antipodes to bolster their impact crater theory.\n\nHowever, there are already other suggested candidates for giant impacts at the Permian–Triassic boundary, for example Bedout off the northern coast of Western Australia, although all are equally contentious, and it is currently under debate whether or not an impact played any role in this extinction.\n\nThe complete absence of a well-defined impact ejecta layer associated with the Permian–Triassic boundary at its outcrops within Victoria Land and the central Transantarctic Mountains argues against there having been any impact capable of creating a crater the size of the hypothesized Wilkes Land impact crater within Antarctica at the Permian–Triassic boundary.\n\n\n (2006)\n"}
{"id": "5304695", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5304695", "title": "William Tecumsah Avery", "text": "William Tecumsah Avery\n\nWilliam Tecumsah Avery (November 11, 1819 – May 20, 1880) was an American politician and a member of the United States House of Representatives for the 10th congressional district of Tennessee.\n\nAvery was born in Hardeman County, Tennessee on November 11, 1819, the son of Nathan and Rebecca Jones Rivers Avery. He attended the common schools, graduated from old Jackson College near Columbia, Tennessee in Maury County. He studied law and was admitted to the bar. He moved to Memphis, Tennessee in 1840 and engaged in the practice of law. He married Emma Chastelette Jones in December 1852. They had three children, William Thomas, Harry Edwin, and Emma Blythe.\n\nIn 1843, Avery was a member of the Tennessee House of Representatives. He was elected as a Democrat to the Thirty-fifth and Thirty-sixth Congress. He served from March 4, 1857 to March 3, 1861, but he was not a candidate for renomination in 1860.\n\nDuring the Civil War, Avery served as a lieutenant colonel in the Confederate Army. He was a clerk of the criminal court of Shelby County from 1870 to 1874. He resumed the practice of law in Memphis, Tennessee.\n\nAvery accidentally drowned in Ten Mile Bayou in Crittenden County, Arkansas, opposite Memphis, on May 20, 1880 (age 60 years, 193 days). He is interred at Elmwood Cemetery in Memphis, Tennessee.\n"}
{"id": "3808426", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3808426", "title": "Ylenia Carrisi", "text": "Ylenia Carrisi\n\nYlenia Maria Sole Carrisi (born November 29, 1970 – missing since January 6, 1994) was the eldest daughter of Italian singers and actors Albano Carrisi and Romina Power. She disappeared under mysterious circumstances while visiting New Orleans, Louisiana in January 1994. Carrisi, upon her father's request, was declared presumed dead in December 2014.\n\nCarrisi was born in Rome on November 29, 1970, the eldest daughter of Albano Carrisi and Romina Power. Her maternal grandparents are American actor Tyrone Power and Mexican actress Linda Christian.\n\nIn 1983, she appeared alongside her parents in the Italian film \"Champagne in paradiso\". Later on, she was the letter-turner on \"La Ruota Della Fortuna\", the Italian version of \"Wheel of Fortune\". She planned to become a novelist, and studied literature at King's College London, where she received the highest marks in her year.\n\nDuring her studies, she began to entertain the idea of traveling the world solo with nothing but a backpack and her journal. She decided to take a break from studying and returned to Italy where she sold all her belongings in order to pay for the voyage. She began in South America. After having spent a few months in Belize, she decided to leave the day after Christmas 1993 by bus to New Orleans, Louisiana. Her brother Yari, also an experienced traveler, had decided to surprise his sister by visiting her that Christmas. He arrived on a rainy 27 December in the village of Hopkins, going door to door searching for her, only to find that the day before, she had boarded a bus to Mexico.\n\nCarrisi was last seen in the French Quarter area around 6 January. Police efforts to find her did not yield any result. At the time of her disappearance, Carrisi was staying in the LeDale Hotel with African-American street musician Alexander Masakela, twenty years her senior. Masakela was arrested on January 31 on an unrelated charge but eventually released for lack of evidence to connect him to Carrisi's disappearance.\n\nIn relation to her disappearance, a security guard testified that he saw a woman vaguely matching her description jump into the Mississippi River saying the words \"I belong in water.\" A Coast Guard search turned up no sign of the young woman's body, which may have been washed out to sea. In any case, it has never been established that the person was Carrisi. In 1996, two years after her disappearance, an unidentified caller claimed that Carrisi was still alive but her whereabouts were unknown.\n\nCarrisi's parents last heard from their daughter on New Year's Eve. They reported her missing on January 18. Her mother believes that she is still alive. In November 2006, her father Albano stated for the first time that he believed the security guard's story, the Mississippi river jump — a theory that Private Investigator Frank Crescentini never believed. Crescentini, involved on Ylenia's case for over 20 years, is still today searching for the truth. In an interview, Crescentini stated \"Ylenia Carrisi is just another missing case, and I will hunt the truth. If she's dead, well then show me her body and a DNA report.\" When asked about the declaration of the presumed death Crescentini simply replied, \"insane and shocking.\" In January 2013, her father Albano requested the declaration of the presumed death of his daughter.\n\nShe was reportedly discovered in June 2011 in a monastery in the United States. Her father dismissed the report as \"shameful speculation containing not a bit of truth.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3408553", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3408553", "title": "Álvares de Azevedo", "text": "Álvares de Azevedo\n\nManuel Antônio Álvares de Azevedo (September 12, 1831 – April 25, 1852), affectionately called \"Maneco\" by his close friends, relatives and admirers, was a Brazilian Romantic poet, short story writer, playwright and essayist, considered to be one of the major exponents of Ultra-Romanticism and Gothic literature in Brazil. His works tend to play heavily with opposite notions, such as love and death, platonism and sarcasm, sentimentalism and pessimism, among others, and have a strong influence of Musset, Chateaubriand, Lamartine, Goethe and – above all – Byron.\n\nAll of his works were published posthumously due to his premature death with only 20 years old after a horse-riding accident. They acquired a strong cult following as years went by, particularly among youths of the goth subculture.\n\nHe is the patron of the second chair of the Brazilian Academy of Letters, and of the ninth chair of the Paulista Academy of Letters.\n\nAzevedo was born into a wealthy family in São Paulo, on September 12, 1831. Son of Law student Inácio Manuel Álvares de Azevedo and Maria Luísa Azevedo (\"née\" Mota), a popular myth says that he was given birth in the library of the University of São Paulo Law School, but it actually happened on the house of his maternal grandfather, Severo Mota. He also had a sister and a younger brother, Inácio Manuel Júnior, but he died prematurely in 1835. The death proved to be an early source of shock for the young Álvares.\n\nIn 1833, Álvares moved with his family to Rio de Janeiro, and in 1840 he enrolled at the Colégio Stoll, in the \"bairro\" of Botafogo. In 1844 he temporarily returned to São Paulo with his uncle, going back to Rio in the following year, where he enrolled at the Colégio Pedro II. There he learned English, French and German, and, being a very avid reader, got acquainted with the works of Lord Byron, François-René de Chateaubriand, Victor Hugo, George Sand, William Shakespeare, John Keats, Manuel du Bocage, Dante Alighieri, Alfred de Musset, Johann Wolfgang von Goethe, Alphonse de Lamartine and Thomas Chatterton, which would heavily influence his writing style.\n\nHaving graduated in 1846 from the Colégio Pedro II, he was admitted to the University of São Paulo Law School in the following year, where he befriended poets José Bonifácio the Younger (the grandnephew of famous Brazilian statesman José Bonifácio de Andrada e Silva), Aureliano Lessa and Bernardo Guimarães. Alongside these poets and others, he founded the infamous \"Sociedade Epicureia\" (\"Epicurean Society\"), a mythical club heavily based upon Epicurean and bohemian thought, and also planned a work in conjunction with Lessa and Guimarães, the poetry book \"As Três Liras\" (\"The Three Lyres\"). However, the \"As Três Liras\" project never came to be; the only surviving part of it today is the book \"Lira dos Vinte Anos\", published one year after Azevedo's death, in 1853. He also founded in 1849 the official magazine of the Sociedade Ensaio Filosófico Paulistano, whose publication ceased in 1856.\n\nBecause of his fragile health and the murky weather of São Paulo, Azevedo contracted tuberculosis. He then abandoned college and moved to his grandfather's farm in Rio, where the weather was warmer, in order to mitigate his disease's symptoms; there he fell from a horse and fractured his iliac fossa. After an unsuccessful surgery, he died, on April 25, 1852, being only 20 years old. He was buried one day later at the Saint John the Baptist Cemetery; his last words before his death were reported to be \"Que fatalidade, meu pai!\" (\"What a fatality, my father!\"). Ironically, one of the last poems Azevedo wrote prior to his death was entitled \"Se Eu Morresse Amanhã\" (\"If I Died Tomorrow\") – the poem was read at his funeral by Manuel Antônio de Almeida, who also happened to be one of Azevedo's cousins.\n\nAnother one of Azevedo's cousins, Maria Catarina de Abreu Sodré, eventually married famous novelist Joaquim Manuel de Macedo, who allegedly based the character Carolina of his novel \"A Moreninha\" on her.\n\n\nAzevedo also wrote many letters and essays, and translated into Portuguese numerous poems by Victor Hugo, Lord Byron's \"Parisina\", William Shakespeare's \"Othello\"s fifth act and Heinrich Heine's poem \"Sag' mir wer einst die Uhren erfund\" (present in his \"Lira dos Vinte Anos\" under the title \"Relógios e Beijos\"). He also wrote a novel, \"O Livro de Fra. Gondicário\"; however, the only extant parts of it today are two fragments of its third chapter.\n\n\n\n"}
