{"id": "59926", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59926", "title": "Albert I of Belgium", "text": "Albert I of Belgium\n\nAlbert I (8 April 1875 – 17 February 1934) reigned as the King of the Belgians from 1909 to 1934. This was an eventful period in the history of Belgium, which included the period of World War I (1914–1918), when 90 percent of Belgium was overrun, occupied, and ruled by the German Empire. Other crucial issues included the adoption of the Treaty of Versailles, the ruling of the Belgian Congo as an overseas possession of the Kingdom of Belgium along with the League of Nations mandate of Ruanda-Urundi, the reconstruction of Belgium following the war, and the first five years of the Great Depression (1929–1934). King Albert died in a mountaineering accident in eastern Belgium in 1934, at the age of 58, and he was succeeded by his son Leopold III ().\n\nAlbert Léopold Clément Marie Meinrad was born in Brussels, he was the fifth child and second son of Prince Philippe, Count of Flanders, and his wife, Princess Marie of Hohenzollern-Sigmaringen. Prince Philippe was the third (second surviving) son of Leopold I (), the first King of the Belgians, and his wife, Louise-Marie of France, and the younger brother of King Leopold II of Belgium (). Princess Marie was a relative of Kaiser Wilhelm II of Germany (), and a member of the non-reigning, Catholic branch of the Hohenzollern family. Albert grew up in the Palace of the Count of Flanders, initially as third in the line of succession to the Belgian throne as his reigning uncle Leopold II's son had already died. When, however, Albert's older brother, Prince Baudouin of Belgium, who had been subsequently prepared for the throne, also died young, Albert, at the age of 16, unexpectedly became second in line (after his father) to the Belgian Crown.\n\nRetiring and studious, Albert prepared himself strenuously for the task of kingship. In his youth, Albert was seriously concerned with the situation of the working classes in Belgium, and personally travelled around working class districts incognito, to observe the living conditions of the people. Shortly before his accession to the throne in 1909, Albert undertook an extensive tour of the Belgian Congo, which had been annexed by Belgium in 1908 (after having been previously owned by King Leopold II of Belgium as his personal property), finding the country in poor condition. Upon his return to Belgium, he recommended reforms to protect the native population and to further technological progress in the colony.\n\nAlbert was married in Munich on 2 October 1900 to Bavarian Duchess Elisabeth Gabrielle Valérie Marie, a Wittelsbach princess whom he had met at a family funeral. A daughter of Bavarian Duke Karl-Theodor, and his second wife, the Infanta Maria Josepha of Portugal, she was born at Possenhofen Castle, Bavaria, Germany, on 25 July 1876, and died on 23 November 1965. \n\nThe civil wedding was conducted by Friedrich Krafft Graf von Crailsheim in the Throne Hall, and the religious wedding was conducted by Cardinal von Stein, assisted by Jakob von Türk, Cofessionar of the King of Bavaria.\n\nBased on the letters written during their engagement and marriage (cited extensively in the memoirs of their daughter, Marie-José) the young couple appear to have been deeply in love. The letters express a deep mutual affection based on a rare affinity of spirit. They also make clear that Albert and Elisabeth continually supported and encouraged each other in their challenging roles as king and queen. The spouses shared an intense commitment to their country and family and a keen interest in human progress of all kinds. Together, they cultivated the friendship of prominent scientists, artists, mathematicians, musicians, and philosophers, turning their court at Laeken into a kind of cultural salon.\n\nAlbert and Elisabeth had three children:\n\nFollowing the death of his uncle, Leopold II, Albert succeeded to the Belgian throne in December 1909, since Albert's own father had already died in 1905. Previous Belgian kings had taken the royal accession oath only in French; Albert innovated by taking it in Dutch as well. He and his wife, Queen Elisabeth, were popular in Belgium due to their simple, unassuming lifestyle and their harmonious family life, which stood in marked contrast to the aloof, autocratic manner and the irregular private life of Leopold II. An important aspect of the early years of Albert's reign was his institution of many reforms in the administration of the Belgian Congo, Belgium's only colonial possession.\n\nKing Albert was a devout Catholic. Many stories illustrate his deep and tender piety. For instance, when his former tutor General De Grunne, in his old age, entered the Benedictine monastery of Maredsous in Belgium, King Albert wrote a letter to him in which he spoke of the joy of giving oneself to God. He said: \"May you spend many years at Maredsous in the supreme comfort of soul that is given to natures touched by grace, by faith in God's infinite power and confidence in His goodness.\" To another friend, a Chinese diplomat who became a Catholic monk, Albert wrote: \"Consecrating oneself wholly to the service of Our Lord gives, to those touched by grace, the peace of soul which is the supreme happiness here below.\" Albert used to tell his children: \"As you nourish your body, so you should nourish your soul.\" In an interesting meditation on what he viewed as the harm that would result if Christian ideals were abandoned in Belgium, he said: \"Every time society has distanced itself from the Gospel, which preached humility, fraternity, and peace, the people have been unhappy, because the pagan civilisation of ancient Rome, which they wanted to replace it with, is based only on pride and the abuse of force\" (Commemorative speech for the war dead of the Battle of the Yser, given by Dom Marie-Albert, Abbot of Orval Abbey, Belgium, in 1936).\n\nAt the start of World War I, Albert refused to comply with Germany's request for safe passage for its troops through Belgium in order to attack France, which the Germans alleged was about to advance into Belgium en route to attacking Germany in support of Russia. In fact, the French Government had told its army commander not to go into Belgium before a German invasion. The German invasion brought Britain into the war as one of the guarantors of Belgian neutrality under the Treaty of 1839. King Albert, as prescribed by the Belgian constitution, took personal command of the Belgian Army, and held the Germans off long enough for Britain and France to prepare for the Battle of the Marne (6–9 September 1914). He led his army through the Siege of Antwerp (28 September – 10 October 1914) and the Battle of the Yser (16–31 October 1914), when the Belgian Army was driven back to a last, tiny strip of Belgian territory near the North Sea. Here the Belgians, in collaboration with the armies of the Triple Entente, took up a war of position, in the trenches behind the River Yser, remaining there for the next four years. During this period, King Albert fought alongside his troops and shared their dangers, while his wife, Queen Elisabeth, worked as a nurse at the front. During his time on the front, rumours spread on both sides of the lines that the German soldiers never fired upon him out of respect for him being the highest ranked commander in harm's way, while others feared risking punishment by the Kaiser himself, who was his cousin. The King also allowed his 14-year-old son, Prince Leopold, to enlist in the Belgian Army as a private and fight in the ranks.\n\nThe war inflicted great suffering on Belgium, which was subjected to a harsh German occupation. The King, fearing the destructive results of the war for Belgium and Europe and appalled by the huge casualty rates, worked through secret diplomatic channels for a negotiated peace between Germany and the Entente based on the \"no victors, no vanquished\" concept. He considered that such a resolution to the conflict would best protect the interests of Belgium and the future peace and stability of Europe. Since, however, neither Germany nor the Entente were favourable to the idea, tending instead to seek total victory, Albert's attempts to further a negotiated peace were unsuccessful. At the end of the war, as commander of the Army Group Flanders, consisting of Belgian, British and French divisions, Albert led the final offensive of the war that liberated occupied Belgium. King Albert, Queen Elisabeth, and their children then re-entered Brussels to a hero's welcome.\n\nUpon his return to Brussels, King Albert made a speech in which he outlined the reforms he desired to see implemented in Belgium, including universal suffrage and the establishment of a Flemish University in Ghent.\n\nFrom 23 September through 13 November 1919, King Albert, Queen Elisabeth of Bavaria, and their son Prince Leopold made an official visit to the United States. During a visit of the historic Native American pueblo of Isleta Pueblo, New Mexico, King Albert decorated Father Anton Docher with Knight in the Order of Leopold II. Docher offered the King a turquoise cross mounted in silver made by the Tiwas Indians. Ten thousand people travelled to Isleta for this occasion. That same year he was elected an honorary member of the New York Society of the Cincinnati. \nIn New York the King received a Ticker tape parade in his honour. The visit, which was prepared by his private secretary Max-Léo Gérard, was considered a success by the Belgian authorities.\n\nIn 1918, King Albert forged a post-war \"Government of National Union\" made up of members of the three main parties in Belgium, the Catholics, the Liberals, and the Socialists. Albert I remembered the Belgian general strike of 1913, and the promise following that of a Constitutional reform for an actual \"one man, one vote\" universal suffrage.\n\nOn 18 April 1893, at the end of the Belgian general strike of 1893, universal suffrage, approved by the Belgian Parliament, gave plural votes to individual men based on their wealth, education, and age, but this was clearly not a universal suffrage.\n\nAlbert attempted to mediate between the parties in favour of universal male suffrage and those opposed to it in order to bring about \"one man, one vote\" universal suffrage for men. He succeeded. Some people have named this the \"conspiracy of Loppem\" because the \"one man, one vote\" suffrage was effected without changing the Constitution of Belgium.\n\nThe Belgian Government sent the King to the Paris Peace Conference in April 1919, where he met with the leaders of France, Britain and the United States. He had four strategic goals:\n\nHe strongly advised against a harsh, restrictive treaty against Germany to prevent future German aggression. He also considered that the dethronement of the princes of Central Europe and, in particular, the dissolution of the Habsburg Empire would constitute a serious menace to peace and stability on the continent. The Allies considered Belgium to be the chief victim of the war, and it aroused enormous popular sympathy, but the King's advice played a small role in Paris.\n\nAlbert spent much of the remainder of his reign assisting in the post-war reconstruction of Belgium.\n\nIn 1920 Albert changed the family name from “Saxe-Coburg-Gotha” to “House of Belgium” (\"van België\", in Dutch; \"de Belgique\" in French) as a result of strong anti-German sentiment. This mirrored the British royal family's name-change to House of Windsor in 1917.\n\nAlbert was a committed conservationist and in 1925, influenced by the ideas of Carl E. Akeley, he founded Africa's first national park, now known as Virunga National Park, in what is now Democratic Republic of Congo. During this period, he was also the first reigning European monarch to visit the United States.\n\nA passionate alpinist, King Albert I died in a mountaineering accident while climbing alone on the Roche du Vieux Bon Dieu at Marche-les-Dames, in the Ardennes region of Belgium near Namur. His death shocked the world and he was deeply mourned, both in Belgium and abroad. Because King Albert was an expert climber, some questioned the official version of his death and suggested that the King was murdered (or even committed suicide) somewhere else and that his body had never been at Marche-les-Dames, or that it was deposited there. Several of those hypotheses with criminal motives were already investigated by the juridical authorities but the doubts have been increased ever since, today still being the subject of popular novels, books and documentaries. Nonetheless, rumors of murder have been dismissed by most historians. There are two possible explanations for his death according to the official juridical investigations: the first was he leaned against a boulder at the top of the mountain, which became dislodged; or two, the pinnacle to which his rope was belayed had broken, causing him to fall about sixty feet. In 2016 DNA testing by geneticist Dr. Maarten Larmuseau and colleagues from the Katholieke Universiteit Leuven on bloodstained leaves collected from Marche-les-Dames concluded that King Albert died at that location.\n\nLike the former kings Leopold I and Leopold II is King Albert interred in the Royal Crypt at the Church of Our Lady of Laeken in Brussels.\n\nIn 1935, prominent Belgian author Emile Cammaerts published a widely acclaimed biography of King Albert I, titled \"Albert of Belgium: Defender of Right\". In 1993, a close climbing companion of the King, Walter Amstutz, founded the King Albert I Memorial Foundation, an association based in Switzerland and dedicated to honouring distinguished individuals in the mountaineering world.\n\nTo celebrate 175 years of Belgian Dynasty and the 100th anniversary of his accession, Albert I was selected as the main motif of a high-value collectors' coin: the Belgian 12.5 euro Albert I commemorative coin, minted in 2008. The obverse shows a portrait of the King.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48395069", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48395069", "title": "Alfred Charles Coles", "text": "Alfred Charles Coles\n\nDr Alfred Charles Coles MD DSc MRCP FRSE (1866–1944) was a British physician, microbiologist and academic author. He was described as \"a master of the microscope\". He made major advancements in the understanding of Hodgkin’s disease and in the blood parasites of both animals and man.\n\nHe was born in Bournemouth the son of Alfred Case Coles a pharmacist.\nHe studied Medicine at Edinburgh University graduating MD in 1893. He received a DSc in Public Health in 1903. He became a Member of the Royal College of Physicians (London) in 1907. He worked as a physician at the Royal National Sanatorium from 1914 and as a Consultant at the Royal Victoria Hospital in Bournemouth.\n\nHe was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society of Edinburgh in 1903. His proposers included Sir Thomas Richard Fraser, Alexander Crum Brown, Charles Hunter Stewart and James Buchanan Young.\nBeing beyond conscription age in the First World War he served as a volunteer in a military hospital at Mont Dore in France. This appears to have been independent of any regiment as the only Alfred C. Coles on record in the army does not co-relate to his function as a doctor.\n\nOn retiral he continued in his studies plus was a keen ornithologist. He died at his home in Bournemouth on 26 September 1944.\n\n\nIn 1924 he married Frances Edith Bagshaw.\n"}
{"id": "58574759", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58574759", "title": "American Society of Hypertension", "text": "American Society of Hypertension\n\nThe American Society of Hypertension (abbreviated ASH) was an American non-profit professional society dedicated to advancing research on hypertension and related cardiovascular diseases. \nThe ASH was founded in 1985 by 17 scientists and physicians. In 2005, the ASH cut ties with the \"American Journal of Hypertension\" over a dispute over control of content published in the \"Journal\". In 2006, the society became the center of a dispute over the appropriate role of pharmaceutical industry in medical research. The dispute prompted several members of an ASH group convened to write a new definition of high blood pressure to resign from the group; those resigning included former ASH president Michael H. Alderman. In 2017, the society dissolved and merged with the American Heart Association. The \"Journal of the American Society of Hypertension\", which was originally the official journal of the ASH, is now affiliated with the AHA.\n"}
{"id": "30982082", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30982082", "title": "Angels Onlus", "text": "Angels Onlus\n\nA.N.G.E.L.S. ( ) – Associazione Nazionale Giovani Energie Latrici (di) Solidarietà is an Italian Onlus, founded in Rome during the 2008, promoted by the 'Presidenza della Fondazione Antonio Genovesi Salerno - SDOA', operating with purpose to contribute to the diffusion of the culture of the peace, the solidarity and an idea of human ecology, meant as a social and cultural well-being.\n\nA.N.G.E.L.S. follows the objectives and principles of the Convention on the Rights of Children, and through an internal status, approved by a board of directors, governs a number of initiatives that embrace the fundraising for departments of pediatric, in Italy and abroad, health care, training but also a whole range of artistic activities to promote the concepts of peace and solidarity.\n\nDuring 2009 and 2010 A.N.G.E.L.S. came in evidence also over main Italian networks due to effort to provide health care in Italian hospitals to sick children coming from war zone or where there are no adequate health centers.\n\nA.N.G.E.L.S is the only Onlus to have received the Patronage of Unesco (Italian National Commission) for the production of the song 'Angels' evaluated of 'fundamental importance for peace and solidarity between populations'. Besides the Medal of the President of Italian Republic Giorgio Napolitano, the Onlus has received the support of other patronages like Holy See (June 2008), Italian 'Ministro della Gioventù' Giorgia Meloni (October 2008), foreign Minister Franco Frattini (November 2008), culture Minister Sandro Bondi (November 2008), 'Società Italiana di Pediatria' (November 2008) activities; it has also been signed a collaboration with the 'Forum Nazionale Giovani' (February 2009).\n\nOn 27 October 2008 A.N.G.E.L.S signed an agreement with the pediatric department of the 'Università degli Studi di Roma La Sapienza' in order to collaborate to take care of sick children abroad. Following, during March 2009, the Onlus has signed a collaboration with the 'Policlinico Umberto I of Rome', directed by the dott. Ubaldo Montaguti, that will make available 4 beds in the Pediatric Department each year to take care of strangers sick children supported by A.N.G.E.L.S.\n\nSeveral other agreements have been put in place by A.N.G.E.L.S in order to carry on the projects; of fundamental importance is the patronage of Italian Air Navy, to transport childer and their relatives from war zones to Italy.\n\nIn order to promote its projects Angels has also received the support of main Italian TV networks like Mediaset Group and MTV, where have been transmitted promotional videoclips about the Onlus.\n\nOn 22 December 2008, the song 'Angels', wrote and interpreted by Princess Bee, during the football match 'A goal for the peace', held in San Siro stadium in Milan, has been the inn of football team 'Ambassadors of the Peace', made up by several worldwide football champions which have \nacceded to this charity event.\n\nDuring 2009, the non-profit organization has also received the patronage of the Regione Lazio, the Carabinieri, the Guardia di Finanza, the City of Rome and the RAI Social Action.\n\nAlso in 2009, A.N.G.E.L.S has signed important agreements, starting with the 'Festival Internazionale del Film di Roma' which allows the non-profit organization to be present at the Festival and the promotion of the videoclip \"Angels\" and of the activities for children and young people. In the same year A.N.G.E.L.S enters in the Regional Registry of Associations of the 'Regione Lazio' and into the set of 20 associations promoting important social interests, which compose the Management Committee of CIVICRAZIA.\n\nSpokeswoman of ANGELS is Benedetta Paravia\"( Princess Bee)\" that, since 2008 leads most of the activities of the onlus.\n\nLove Angels\nComunicato Stampa Love Angels\n\nYoutube Channel\n"}
{"id": "6715301", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6715301", "title": "Benoît Chamoux", "text": "Benoît Chamoux\n\nBenoît Chamoux (19 February 1961 – 6 October 1995) was a French Alpinist, who claimed to have summited 13 of the Eight-thousanders in the Himalayas.\n\nThree of these climbs are disputed and are not formally recorded (Makalu in 1995, Cho Oyu in 1990 and Shishapangma in 1990). His official recorded number of ascents is 10.\n\nChamoux was born in La Roche-sur-Foron near Mont Blanc in the department of Haute-Savoie, France. He disappeared near the summit of his 14th Himalayan peak, Kangchenjunga (8586m) on 6 October 1995 with photographer Pierre Royer and their Sherpa Riku. Three of his eight-thousander ascents were to either their fore-summits or the plateau, and are disputed.\n\nThe non-profit \"Foundation Benoît Chamoux\" was created under the auspices of the Foundation of France with the mission to educate Sherpa children who have lost their fathers in mountain expeditions.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3175212", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3175212", "title": "British Columbia v Imperial Tobacco Canada Ltd", "text": "British Columbia v Imperial Tobacco Canada Ltd\n\nBritish Columbia v Imperial Tobacco Canada Ltd, [2005] 2 S.C.R. 473, 2005 SCC 49, is a decision of the Supreme Court of Canada where the Court found that the provincial \"Tobacco Damages and Health Care Costs Recovery Act\", which allowed the government to sue tobacco companies, was constitutionally valid. Imperial Tobacco Canada is an indirect subsidiary of British American Tobacco.\n\nThe British Columbia government passed the Tobacco Damages and Health Care Costs Recovery Act that granted the government power to sue tobacco manufacturers for breach of duty to recover costs on the health care system for people suffering from tobacco related illnesses. The tobacco companies sued under the Act challenged its constitutional validity. \n\nOn June 5, 2003, the Supreme Court of British Columbia found that the Act violated the territorial limits of provincial law and was unconstitutional. The Court of Appeal, in May 2004, overturned the decision on the basis that the pith and substance, i.e. the dominant characteristic, of the law fell under the property and civil rights provision of the Constitution Act, 1867. The challenge against judicial independence, and rule of law were also dismissed.\n\nOn June 22, 2004, Imperial Tobacco Canada appealed the case to the Supreme Court of Canada. On the same day, four other tobacco companies and the Canadian Tobacco Manufacturers' Council also filed for appeal. On December 17, 2004, the Supreme Court agreed to hear the case and it upheld the decision of the Court of Appeal on September 29, 2005.\n\nThree issues were put to the Court:\n\nThe Court answered \"no\" to all of these issues.\n\nThe unanimous opinion was written by Major J.\n\nSimilar to the reasoning of the Court of Appeal, Major found that the pith and substance of the Act was within the authority of the province under section 92(13) of the Constitution Act, 1867. The subject matter of the Act, compensation for health costs, and the effect, suing companies who harmed those in the province, all point at a valid provincial law. No other province has a greater relationship to the cause of action. The duty breached by the companies in the manufacturing and selling of tobacco has little significance, Major said, on the connection between the cause of action and the province.\n\nAt no point during an action under the Act is the independence of the judiciary interfered with. The Court dismissed the suggestion that the shift in burden to the accused or the unconventional rules of procedure and evidence created by the Act have any effect on independence.\n\nThe tobacco companies had claimed that the retrospectivity and retroactivity of the Act violated the rule of law by creating an unfair trial. Further, they felt that legislation should neither target a particular sector nor confer special privileges on the government.\n\nThe rule of law, as protected by the Constitution, does not require that Acts ensure a fair civil trial or avoid giving the government advantages. \n\nThe Supreme Court held that accepting this amorphous conception of the rule of law would render several provisions of the Charter redundant because they are more narrowly formulated.\n\nThe Court limited the four unwritten principles of the Constitution, which were outlined in \"Reference re Secession of Quebec\". It reaffirmed that a textual basis for review must be submitted because of the stability and predictability provided by a written constitution. \n\n\"Because of this ruling, Canada became the first country outside the United States where governments can sue tobacco manufacturers to recover smoking-related healthcare costs; as much as $10 billion in costs was at stake in this B.C. case. Manitoba, New Brunswick, Newfoundland and Labrador, Nova Scotia, Ontario, and Saskatchewan have since drafted or adopted legislation based on this B.C. model.\"\n"}
{"id": "52355931", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52355931", "title": "Cannabis in Dominica", "text": "Cannabis in Dominica\n\nCannabis in Dominica is a Class B drug to cultivate, sell or possess. This means that possession is punishable by 12 months and $12,000 (summary) or 2 years and $20,000 (on indictment). Supplying, production, or importation are punishable by 3 years and $100,000 (summary) or 14 years and $200,000 (on indictment).\n\nIn 1995, the US government described Dominica as a minor cannabis producer but \"increasingly exploited transit route\", with some cannabis cultivated on the island but mostly consumed locally. In 1994 Dominican authorities seized 741 kg of cannabis and eradicated 48,855 plants.\n\nA 2011 report noted that Dominica had large-scale cannabis cultivation for both trafficking and local use, with an estimated 210 acres of cannabis cultivated annually.\n"}
{"id": "35993402", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35993402", "title": "Conceptual space", "text": "Conceptual space\n\nA conceptual space is a geometric structure that represents a number of quality dimensions, which denote basic features by which concepts and objects can be compared, such as weight, color, taste, temperature, pitch, and the three ordinary spatial dimensions. In a conceptual space, \"points\" denote objects, and \"regions\" denote concepts. The theory of conceptual spaces is a theory about concept learning first proposed by Peter Gärdenfors. It is motivated by notions such as conceptual similarity and prototype theory.\n\nThe theory also puts forward the notion that \"natural\" categories are convex regions in conceptual spaces. In that if formula_1 and formula_2 are elements of a category, and if formula_3 is between formula_1 and formula_2, then formula_3 is also likely to belong to the category. The notion of concept convexity allow the interpretation of the focal points of regions as category prototypes. In the more general formulations of the theory, concepts are defined in terms conceptual similarity to their prototypes.\n\n"}
{"id": "32988856", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32988856", "title": "Der Bergdoktor (2008)", "text": "Der Bergdoktor (2008)\n\nDer Bergdoktor (2008) is a remake of the 1990s German-Austrian medical drama television series \"Der Bergdoktor\", broadcast since 6 February 2008.\n\n"}
{"id": "21479645", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21479645", "title": "Exercise trends", "text": "Exercise trends\n\nWorldwide there has been a large shift towards less physically demanding work and a more sedentary lifestyle. This has been accompanied by increasing use of mechanized transportation, a greater prevalence of labor saving technology in the home, and less active recreational pursuits. At least 31% of the world's population does not get sufficient physical exercise. This is true in almost all developed and developing countries, and among children. Some experts refer to sitting as \"the new smoking\" because of its negative effects on overall health.\n\nThese exercise trends are contributing to the rising rates of chronic diseases including: obesity, heart disease, stroke and high cholesterol. Active transport (walking, bicycling, etc.) has been found to be inversely related to obesity in Europe, North America, and Australia. Thus exercise has been associated with a decrease in mortality.\n\nOne of the causes most prevalent in the developing world is urbanization. As more of the population moves to cities, population over-crowding, increased poverty, increased levels of crime, high-density traffic, low air quality and lack of parks, sidewalks and recreational sports facilities leads to a less active lifestyle.\n\nPhysical inactivity is increasing or high among many groups in the population including: young people, women, and the elderly.\n\nA 2005 population study in south Brazil showed physical inactivity during leisure time to be more prevalent among females and those living with a partner; with a positive correlation associated with age and number of cigarettes smoked, and a negative correlation (decreased levels of physical inactivity) associated with years of formal education, body mass index, and increasing socioeconomic status.\n\nStudies in children and adults have found an association between the number of hours of television watched and the prevalence of obesity. A 2008 meta analysis found that 63 of 73 studies (86%) showed an increased rate of childhood obesity with increased media exposure, and rates increasing proportionally to time spent watching television.\n\nAnother cause in the case of children is that physical activity in activities from self-propelled transport, to school physical education, and organized sports is declining in many countries.\n\nNoncommunicable diseases, partly due to a lack of exercise, are currently the greatest public health problem in most countries around the world. Each year at least 1.9 million people die as a result of physical inactivity, which makes inactivity one of the leading preventable causes of death worldwide.\n\nAustralian children between 1961 and 2002 have had a marked decline in their aerobic fitness.\n\nObese people are less active than their normal weight counterparts. In Canada, 27.0% of sedentary men are obese as opposed to 19.6% of active men. Lean people are more fidgety than their obese counterparts; this relationship is maintained even if normal weight people eat more or the obese person loses weight.\n\nNational data indicates that only 10% of Canadian youth are meeting the guideline for screen time of less than 2 hours per day. As well, although 2/3 of families live close enough for their children to bike or walk to school, only 1/3 report actually walking to school and 80% report never having cycled to school.\n\nA study from China found urbanization reduced daily energy expenditure by about 300–400 kcal and going to work by car or bus reduced it by a further 200 kcal.\n\nA rapid decline in physical activity has occurred between the 1980s and the 2000s. The decline in physical activity is attributed to increasing technology in the workplace and changing leisure activities. In 1989 65% of Chinese had jobs that required heavy labor. This decreased to 51% in the year 2000.\n\nAmong Asian children between 1917 and 2003 little change has been seen in power and speed however endurance has decreased substantially in the last 10–15 years.\n\nIn Finland leisure-time physical activity has increased, while occupational and commuting physical activity has decreased from 1972 to 2002. Leisure-time physical activity increased from 66% (1972) to 77% (2002) in men and from 49% (1972)to 76% (2002) in women. Physically demanding work decreased from 60% (1972) to 38% (2002) in men and from 47% (1972) to 25% (2002) in women. Daily commuting activity decreased from 30% (1972) to 10% (2002) in men and from 34% (1972) to 22% (2002) in women.\n\nAs of 2007 walking and cycling as a means of transport In the Netherlands has been stable since 1994. The average Dutch citizen in the year 2007 walked and cycled per year.\n\nCrossFit has been a trend in The Netherlands since 2012. It is a unique training program that combines a physical exercise philosophy and a competitive fitness sport. CrossFit workouts use elements from high-intensity interval training, Olympic weightlifting, plyometrics, powerlifting, gymnastics and other exercises. It is very successful around the world and has 13,000 members in affiliated gyms.\n\nPersonal training is gaining more and more popularity in the Netherlands in the last 15 years. A personal trainer is a trainer certified to have a varying degree of knowledge of general fitness involved in exercise prescription and instruction. They motivate clients by setting goals and providing feedback to clients. \n\nObstacle training centrums are very popular in The Netherlands since companies like have included the social aspect to training for an obstacle course. An obstacle course is a series of challenging physical obstacles an individual or a team need to complete while being timed. Obstacle courses can include running, climbing, jumping, crawling, swimming, and balancing elements with the aim of testing speed and endurance. Sometimes a course involves mental tests.\n\nOver 60% of the population of Brazil, Chile, and Peru do not meet the recommended levels of physical activity needed to maintain health. A study of a southern Brazilian population found that >80% of the population was physically inactive.\n\nA study of Swedish males found a significant decrease in total physical exercise even though recreational exercise has increased. This was due to a decrease in work place exercise and physical exercise in transportation.\n\nAmericans have become less physically active overall between 1955 and 2005. While the rate of leisure-time physical activity has not changed significantly there has been a decrease in work-related activity, human powered transportation, activity in the home, and increasing sedentary lifestyle. During 2000 and 2005 the number of adults who were never physically active increased from 9.4% to 10.3% while the number who were engaged in the highest level of physical activity decreased from 18.7% to 16.7%. Pertaining to leisure-time physical activity, people involved in no activity increased from 38.5% to 40.0% while those who spent most of their day sitting increased from 36.8% to 39.9%.\n\nIn 2000 the CDC estimated that more than 40% of the US population was sedentary, another 30% was active but not sufficiently and less than 30% had an adequate level of physical activity. There has been a trend toward decreased physical activity in part due to increasingly mechanized forms of work, changing modes of transportation, and increasing urbanization. Obesity rates have increased in relation to expanding suburbs. This has been attributed to increased time spent commuting, leading to less exercise and less meal preparation at home. In the time between 1983 and 1990 the number of trips taken by foot decreased from 9% down to 7%. Driving one's children to school has become increasingly popular. In the USA the proportion of children who walk or bike to school declined between 1969 (42%) and 2001 (16%) resulting in less exercise.\n\nIn England both walking and cycling have declined since 1975 being replaced by motorized transport. The average British citizen in the year 2005 walked per year, a fall of since 1975.\n"}
{"id": "11296", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11296", "title": "First aid", "text": "First aid\n\nFirst aid is the assistance given to any person suffering a sudden illness or injury, with care provided to preserve life, prevent the condition from worsening, or to promote recovery. It includes initial intervention in a serious condition prior to professional medical help being available, such as performing cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) while awaiting an ambulance, as well as the complete treatment of minor conditions, such as applying a plaster to a cut. First aid is generally performed by someone with basic medical training. Mental health first aid is an extension of the concept of first aid to cover mental health.\n\nThere are many situations which may require first aid, and many countries have legislation, regulation, or guidance which specifies a minimum level of first aid provision in certain circumstances. This can include specific training or equipment to be available in the workplace (such as an automated external defibrillator), the provision of specialist first aid cover at public gatherings, or mandatory first aid training within schools. First aid, however, does not necessarily require any particular equipment or prior knowledge, and can involve improvisation with materials available at the time, often by untrained people.\n\nFirst aid can be performed on all mammals, although this article relates to the care of human patients.\n\nSkills of what is now known as first aid have been recorded throughout history, especially in relation to warfare, where the care of both traumatic and medical cases is required in particularly large numbers. The bandaging of battle wounds is shown on Classical Greek pottery from c. 500 BCE, whilst the parable of the Good Samaritan includes references to binding or dressing wounds. There are numerous references to first aid performed within the Roman army, with a system of first aid supported by surgeons, field ambulances, and hospitals. Roman legions had the specific role of capsarii, who were responsible for first aid such as bandaging, and are the forerunners of the modern combat medic.\n\nFurther examples occur through history, still mostly related to battle, with examples such as the Knights Hospitaller in the 11th century CE, providing care to pilgrims and knights in the Holy Land.\n\nDuring the late 18th century, drowning as a cause of death was a major concern amongst the population. In 1767, a society for the preservation of life from accidents in water was started in Amsterdam, and in 1773, physician William Hawes began publicizing the power of artificial respiration as means of resuscitation of those who appeared drowned. This led to the formation, in 1774, of the Society for the Recovery of Persons Apparently Drowned, later the Royal Humane Society, who did much to promote resuscitation.\n\nNapoleon's surgeon, Baron Dominique-Jean Larrey, is credited with creating an ambulance corps (the ambulance volantes), which included medical assistants, tasked to administer first aid in battle.\n\nIn 1859 Jean-Henri Dunant witnessed the aftermath of the Battle of Solferino, and his work led to the formation of the Red Cross, with a key stated aim of \"aid to sick and wounded soldiers in the field\". The Red Cross and Red Crescent are still the largest provider of first aid worldwide.\n\nIn 1870, Prussian military surgeon Friedrich von Esmarch introduced formalized first aid to the military, and first coined the term \"erste hilfe\" (translating to 'first aid'), including training for soldiers in the Franco-Prussian War on care for wounded comrades using pre-learnt bandaging and splinting skills, and making use of the Esmarch bandage which he designed. The bandage was issued as standard to the Prussian combatants, and also included aide-memoire pictures showing common uses.\n\nIn 1872, the Order of Saint John of Jerusalem in England changed its focus from hospice care, and set out to start a system of practical medical help, starting with making a grant towards the establishment of the UK's first ambulance service. This was followed by creating its own wheeled transport litter in 1875 (the St John Ambulance), and in 1877 established the St John Ambulance Association (the forerunner of modern-day St John Ambulance) \"to train men and women for the benefit of the sick and wounded\".\n\nAlso in the UK, Surgeon-Major Peter Shepherd had seen the advantages of von Esmarch's new teaching of first aid, and introduced an equivalent programme for the British Army, and so being the first user of \"first aid for the injured\" in English, disseminating information through a series of lectures. Following this, in 1878, Shepherd and Colonel Francis Duncan took advantage of the newly charitable focus of St John, and established the concept of teaching first aid skills to civilians. The first classes were conducted in the hall of the Presbyterian school in Woolwich (near Woolwich barracks where Shepherd was based) using a comprehensive first aid curriculum.\n\nFirst aid training began to spread through the British Empire through organisations such as St John, often starting, as in the UK, with high risk activities such as ports and railways.\n\nThe primary goal of first aid is to prevent death or serious injury from worsening. The key aims of first aid can be summarized in three key points, sometimes known as 'the three Ps':\nThe overriding aim of all medical care which includes first aid, is to save lives and minimize the threat of death.\nPrevent further harm also sometimes called prevent the condition from worsening, or danger of further injury, this covers both external factors, such as moving a patient away from any cause of harm, and applying first aid techniques to prevent worsening of the condition, such as applying pressure to stop a bleed becoming dangerous.\nFirst aid also involves trying to start the recovery process from the illness or injury, and in some cases might involve completing a treatment, such as in the case of applying a plaster to a small wound.\n\nIt is important to note that first aid is not medical treatment and cannot be compared with what a trained medical professional provides. First aid involves making common sense decisions in best interest of an injured person.\n\nCertain skills are considered essential to the provision of first aid and are taught ubiquitously. Particularly the \"ABC\"s of first aid, which focus on critical life-saving intervention, must be rendered before treatment of less serious injuries. ABC stands for \"Airway\", \"Breathing\", and \"Circulation\". The same mnemonic is used by all emergency health professionals. Attention must first be brought to the airway to ensure it is clear. Obstruction (choking) is a life-threatening emergency. Following evaluation of the airway, a first aid attendant would determine adequacy of breathing and provide rescue breathing if necessary. Assessment of circulation is now not usually carried out for patients who are not breathing, with first aiders now trained to go straight to chest compressions (and thus providing artificial circulation) but pulse checks may be done on less serious patients.\n\nSome organizations add a fourth step of \"D\" for \"Deadly bleeding\" or \"Defibrillation\", while others consider this as part of the \"Circulation\" step simply referred as Disability. Variations on techniques to evaluate and maintain the ABCs depend on the skill level of the first aider. Once the ABCs are secured, first aiders can begin additional treatments or examination, as required if they possess the proper training (such as measuring pupil dilation). Some organizations teach the same order of priority using the \"3Bs\": \"Breathing\", \"Bleeding\", and \"Bones\" (or \"4Bs\": \"Breathing\", \"Bleeding\", \"Burns\", and \"Bones\"). While the ABCs and 3Bs are taught to be performed sequentially, certain conditions may require the consideration of two steps simultaneously. This includes the provision of both artificial respiration and chest compressions to someone who is not breathing and has no pulse, and the consideration of cervical spine injuries when ensuring an open airway.\n\nTo save a person's life, you need to have an open airway so it makes a clear passage where air can go through the mouth or nose through the pharynx and down into the lungs, without obstruction. Conscious people will maintain their own airway automatically, but those who are unconscious (with a GCS of less than 8) may be unable to maintain a patent airway, as the part of the brain which automatically controls breathing in normal situations may not be functioning.\n\nIf the patient was breathing, a first aider would normally then place them in the recovery position, with the patient leant over on their side, which also has the effect of clearing the tongue from the pharynx. It also avoids a common cause of death in unconscious patients, which is choking on regurgitated stomach contents.\n\nThe airway can also become blocked through a foreign object becoming lodged in the pharynx or larynx, commonly called choking. The first aider will be taught to deal with this through a combination of ‘back slaps’ and ‘abdominal thrusts’.\n\nOnce the airway has been opened, the first aider would assess to see if the patient is breathing. If there is no breathing, or the patient is not breathing normally, such as agonal breathing, the first aider would undertake what is probably the most recognized first aid procedure—CPR, which involves breathing for the patient, and manually massaging the heart to promote blood flow around the body.\n\nIf the chocking person is an infant, the aide will give five strong blows in the infant’s upper back by placing the infant’s face down on his forearm. The aide will be taught not to provide first aid if the infant is able to cough or cry. Coughing and crying indicate the airway is open and the foreign object will likely to come out from the force the coughing or crying produce \n\nThe first responder also will be educated on how to perform CPR along with using Automatic External Defibrillation (AED) for a person who is having a sudden cardiac arrest. Survival rate in people who had cardiac arrest outside of hospital is low. The lack of oxygen supply to the brain for five minutes will cause permanent brain damage, so quick action is very important to save the person’s life. AED is a device that examine a heartbeat and give shock to restart the heart. AEDs were developed to allow first responders to successfully deliver shocks after seeing diagrams and auditory instructions of the device\n\nThe first aider is also likely to be trained in dealing with injuries such as cuts, grazes or bone fracture. They may be able to deal with the situation in its entirety (a small adhesive bandage on a paper cut), or may be required to maintain the condition of something like a broken bone, until the next stage of definitive care (usually an ambulance) arrives.\n\nBasic principles, such as knowing to use an adhesive bandage or applying direct pressure on a bleed, are often acquired passively through life experiences. However, to provide effective, life-saving first aid interventions requires instruction and practical training. This is especially true where it relates to potentially fatal illnesses and injuries, such as those that require CPR; these procedures may be invasive, and carry a risk of further injury to the patient and the provider. As with any training, it is more useful if it occurs \"before\" an actual emergency, and in many countries, emergency ambulance dispatchers may give basic first aid instructions over the phone while the ambulance is on the way.\n\nTraining is generally provided by attending a course, typically leading to certification. Due to regular changes in procedures and protocols, based on updated clinical knowledge, and to maintain skill, attendance at regular refresher courses or re-certification is often necessary. First aid training is often available through community organizations such as the Red Cross and St. John Ambulance, or through commercial providers, who will train people for a fee. This commercial training is most common for training of employees to perform first aid in their workplace. Many community organizations also provide a commercial service, which complements their community programmes.\n\nThere are several types of first aid (and first aider) which require specific additional training. These are usually undertaken to fulfill the demands of the work or activity undertaken.\n\nSome people undertake specific training in order to provide first aid at public or private events, during filming, or other places where people gather. They may be designated as a first aider, or use some other title. This role may be undertaken on a voluntary basis, with organisations such as the Red Cross and St John Ambulance, or as paid employment with a medical contractor\n\nPeople performing a first aid role, whether in a professional or voluntary capacity, are often expected to have a high level of first aid training and are often uniformed.\n\nAlthough commonly associated with first aid, the symbol of a red cross is an official protective symbol of the Red Cross. According to the Geneva Conventions and other international laws, the use of this and similar symbols is reserved for official agencies of the International Red Cross and Red Crescent, and as a protective emblem for medical personnel and facilities in combat situations. Use by any other person or organization is illegal, and may lead to prosecution.\n\nThe internationally accepted symbol for first aid is the white cross on a green background shown below.\n\nSome organizations may make use of the Star of Life, although this is usually reserved for use by ambulance services, or may use symbols such as the Maltese Cross, like the Order of Malta Ambulance Corps and St John Ambulance. Other symbols may also be used.\n\"Also see medical emergency.\"\n\nMany accidents can happen at home, office, schools, laboratories etc. which require immediate attention before the patient is attended by the doctor.\n\nA first aid kit consists of a strong, durable bag or transparent plastic box. They are commonly identified with a white cross on a green background. A first aid kit does not have to be bought ready-made. The advantage of ready-made first aid kits are that they have well organized compartments and familiar layouts.\n\nThere is no universally agreed upon list for the contents of a first aid kit. The UK Health and Safety Executive stress that the contents of workplace first aid kits will vary according to the nature of the work activities. As an example of possible contents of a kit, British Standard \"BS 8599 First Aid Kits for the Workplace\" lists the following items:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2354565", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2354565", "title": "Fitz Hugh Ludlow Memorial Library", "text": "Fitz Hugh Ludlow Memorial Library\n\nThe Fitz Hugh Ludlow Memorial Library is a library of psychoactive drug-related literature created in 1970 by Michael D. Horowitz, Cynthia Palmer, William Dailey, and Robert Barker, who merged their private libraries. It was named for Fitz Hugh Ludlow, author of the first full-length work of drug literature written by an American, \"The Hasheesh Eater\" (1857). It was the largest such library in the world and was based in San Francisco, California. The Ludlow Library became part of the Ludlow Santo Domingo Library in Geneva, Switzerland, in 2003. After the death of its owner, Julio Mario Santo Domingo, Jr., his family loaned the book collection to the Houghton Library at Harvard University and the music collection to the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame and Museum in Cleveland, Ohio.\n\nDuring the 1970s the library grew rapidly and operated out of San Francisco as an international resource for psychoactive drug research, and for the study of psychoactive drug use in contemporary and historical societies. The Ludlow Library flourished during a period of perhaps the most intense media interest ever focused on the personal, social, scientific and political aspects of drug experience. The Library helped hundreds of writers, filmmakers, and news media researchers collect accurate historical information on cannabis, the opiates, coca and cocaine, and psychedelics for their publications.\n\nThe library was curated by Michael R. Aldrich, holder of the first Ph.D. ever granted from an American university in the mythology and folklore of cannabis (SUNY-Buffalo, 1970), and he and his wife Michelle Aldrich joined the co-founders as members of the Board of Directors in 1974. The Library's advisory Board of Trustees included a number of eminent researchers and writers, including Chauncey Leake, Richard Evans Schultes, Albert Hofmann, Alexander Shulgin, Andrew Weil, Oscar Janiger, Ralph Metzner, Laura Huxley, Allen Ginsberg, Weston LaBarre, R. Gordon Wasson, Tod H. Mikuriya, and Lawrence Ferlinghetti.\n\n"}
{"id": "30971990", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30971990", "title": "Gait trainer", "text": "Gait trainer\n\nA gait trainer is a wheeled device that assists a person who is unable to walk independently to learn or relearn to walk safely and efficiently as part of gait training. Gait trainers are intended for children or adults with physical disabilities, to provide the opportunity to improve walking ability. A gait trainer offers both unweighting support and postural alignment to enable gait practice. It functions as a support walker and provides more assistance for balance and weight-bearing, than does a traditional rollator walker, or a walker with platform attachments. It also provides opportunities to stand and to bear weight in a safe, supported position.\n\nVarious movement disorders can result in the inability to walk independently, necessitating the use of a gait trainer. Such motor disability may be due to a medical condition from childhood, such as cerebral palsy, spina bifida, or other developmental disabilities. Or, walking impairment may be due to a later injury or illness, such as a traumatic brain injury, incomplete spinal cord injury or stroke. Regardless of the cause of disability, the child or adult may learn to walk, or recover the ability to walk, through walking practice. Recent discoveries in the field of neuroplasticity indicate the human potential for improvement in motor skills through activity-based therapy, despite neural damage from condition or injury. Although total independence in gait may not be achieved in every case, significant gains can be made in muscle strength and neuromotor control for walking, through locomotor training.\n\nOne of the first gait trainers for use by children with developmental disabilities was developed in the mid 1980s for use with the MOVE Curriculum, by a special education teacher in California, Linda Bidabe, in collaboration with others at the Blair Learning Center. Since that time, pediatric gait trainer design has evolved and been refined, and several manufacturers have developed quality gait trainers.\n\nIn adult rehabilitation, gait training is traditionally performed initially within parallel bars as the most stable assistive device. As walking improves, a patient can progress to a walker, crutches, bilateral canes or a single cane. This gait training typically occurs during physical therapy sessions. The more recent development of body-weight support gait training, such as over a treadmill, can enable considerably more walking practice with less strain to the therapist, when compared to traditional gait training.\n\nIn adult rehabilitation, the use of body-weight support (BWS) systems enables patients to walk safely with less effort. Body-weight support systems enable walking practice over a treadmill. Or, they may enable walking over ground from a mobile device or ceiling track. Because of the support provided by the system, the strain to the therapist is reduced. This, along with the patient being adequately supported for balance and weight bearing assist, increases the duration of walking practice. This effective therapy increases potential for motor skill gains. The more opportunity for practice and repetitions of step-taking, the more likely is the patient to regain walking ability.\n\nThe use of over ground support walkers as an approach for gait training for the adult population is another recent development in adult rehabilitation. The value of over ground gait trainers is that these devices are typically more affordable than BWS systems, and they enable additional walking practice beyond the physical therapy session, whether in the institution or in the patient’s home or community environment. By using a gait trainer for over ground walking practice, the patient has support for balance and can now incorporate walking practice into his or her daily routine. For example, rather than remaining in a wheelchair between gait therapy sessions, an individual can use the over ground gait trainer for walking practice to and from the cafeteria within an institution, or while at a mall when out in the community.\nEarly research indicates that sufficient over ground locomotor training may result in equivalent or possibly greater improvements in walking capacity as compared to the body-weight support treadmill training. The over ground walking practice is a closer replication to the real-world task of walking. The voluntary effort of step initiation and forward progression is essential for walking over ground, and these devices enable the patient to learn how to generate and control these motor forces in a way that is not available on a treadmill.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53489278", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53489278", "title": "Gideon Bickel", "text": "Gideon Bickel\n\nGideon Bickel (; Born May 12, 1944) is an Israeli businessman, mainly involve with strategy and execution of programs in agriculture and food production to developing countries and Large corporations. Bickel promoted peace between Israel and its neighbors through agricultural assistance. Bickel was the owner of Flora Stock Exchange in Belgium, was chairman and owner of Carmel Agrexco, and he is engaged in real estate.\n\nBickel finished undergraduate studies in agronomy at the Hebrew University. He has several master degrees, and he holds a doctorate in social sciences from the University of Haifa. In addition, he graduated the National Security College with honors.\n\nBickel is a retired colonel (in reserve duty) in the IDF, a commander in the paratroopers and was wounded in Six Day war during the break to Jerusalem. He served in Yom Kippur war and in the first Lebanon war, in 1982.\n\nBickel began his business career in 1968 as a farmer and exporter of agricultural produce. In 1997 acquired Flora, the flower exchange in Belgium, which was sold after six years of operation to a Belgian shopping center.\n\nIn 2011, Bickel purchased the activity of Agrexco, Agricultural Export Company which was owned by the Government of Israel and the Plants Board, and he was appointed and served as owner and chairman of the company, renamed to Carmel Agrexco.\nIn addition to his agricultural activity, Bickel engaged in extensive areas of real estate development, and he is the owner of Hadarim, a shopping mall in Netanya.\n\nBickel served in 1987 as a representative of the State of Israel Bonds in fund raising in the US and Canada. In 1989 he was the chairman of the agricultural strategy committee, established by the Government of Israel, and set at the board of directors at Agridev, which developed and provided agricultural knowledge to countries around the world. Bickel served as a director of several companies and he is the founder and the first president of the Voluntary association Bnei Arazim for children’s care. Bickel was a member of the Israel Export Institute.\nBickel was a member of numerous trade exchanges, such as the Chamber of Commerce Israel-US, Chamber of Commerce Israel-Germany, Chamber of Commerce Israel-Japan, Chamber of Commerce Israel-Britain and Chamber of Commerce Israel-Jordan.\n\nBickel accompanied the agricultural aspect of relations between Israel and its neighbors and worked to promote peace in the Middle East. Bickel served as a chairman of the agricultural committee to interaction between Israel and the Arabs of Judea, Samaria and the Gaza Strip, attended peace conferences in Sharm el-Sheikh, Casablanca, Amman, Cairo, Qatar and the peace conference at Harvard Business School, and assisted in setting up high-tech agricultural projects in Egypt, Jordan and Tunisia.\n\nBickel accompanied visits and delegation of Prime Ministers and Presidents as an agriculture expert. In this context he visited China, Kenya, Ethiopia, Kazakhstan, Singapore, Australia, India, Japan and Thailand. These trips made contacts with heads of state, ministers of agriculture and leading companies in the field of agriculture.\n\nBickel got the 1989 Kaplan Award for Breakthrough in growing flowers for export, and received many certificates of appreciation, including a certificate of appreciation from the Chamber of Commerce for contribution to the development of free enterprise, a certificate of appreciation from the Minister of Agriculture on agricultural strategy planning and many more.\n\nBickel lives in Kfar Malal, Israel. He is married and has one daughter.\n\n1. \n\n2. \n\n3. \n\n4. \n\n5. \n"}
{"id": "18492818", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18492818", "title": "Global Partners in Care", "text": "Global Partners in Care\n\nThe Foundation for Hospices in Sub-Saharan Africa (FHSSA) was established in 1999 as a 501(c)(3) charitable organization by a group of internationally recognized hospice and HIV/AIDS care professionals. FHSSA generates support for African organizations that provide hospice and palliative care to those who are dying of HIV/AIDS and other serious diseases. It is now called Global Partners in Care.\n\nFHSSA was founded in 1999 to work with African partners to help address hospice and palliative care issues. Collaborative efforts with the African Palliative Care Association (APCA) and the Hospice and Palliative Care Association of South Africa (HPCA) help build capacity throughout Africa, and focus on the needs of the dying, including families and children.\n\nFHSSA emphasizes the importance of palliative care in the overall continuum of care for all those affected with life-threatening illness. Pain and Symptom management, psychosocial care, spiritual support, and care for the entire family, including children, are all particularly important when someone is facing the end of life.\n\n"}
{"id": "58861352", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58861352", "title": "Health in Eswatini", "text": "Health in Eswatini\n\nAs a result of the effects of excess mortality due to AIDS, residents of Eswatini have nearly the lowest documented life expectancy in the world at 58.9 years; only four other countries have lower life expectancies.\n\nIn 2015, Swaziland had an estimated life expectancy of 58.9 years.\n\nTuberculosis is a significant problem, with an 18 percent mortality rate. Many patients have a multi-drug resistant strain and 83 percent are co-infected with HIV. There are roughly 14,000 new TB cases diagnosed each year.\n\nMental illness is also a significant public health problem in Eswatini. The population is made more vulnerable to mental illness due to the prevalence of HIV and AIDS, alcohol and cannabis abuse, sexual violence, and poverty. Additionally, not a lot of accurate information is widely known about mental illness in the country. Because of this, individuals with mental illness are also susceptible to stigma.\n\nEswatini does not have an expansive mental health infrastructure. In fact, most healthcare is centralized in cities where approximately 20% of the population lives. There is one psychiatrist available for a population of roughly one million. The psychiatrist works at the National Psychiatric Referral Hospital in Manzini and sees all of the psychiatric patients in the country, including patients housed at the hospital, but also prisoners, children, and people who commute from rural villages.\n\nGiven Eswatini's situation, many health-related non-governmental organizations, university programs, and other organizations work in the country on research and service projects related to health.\n\nEswatini is critically affected by the HIV and AIDS disease. As reported in the 2012 CIA World Factbook, Swaziland had the highest HIV infection rate in the world (25.8% of all adults; more in other reports) and a life expectancy of 50 years. From another perspective, World Health Organization data in 2002 showed that 64% of all deaths in the country were caused by HIV/AIDS.\n\nIn 2009, an estimated 7,000 people died from AIDS-related causes, from a total population of approximately 1,185,000. This translates into an estimated 0.6% of the population dying from AIDS in a year. Chronic illnesses that are the most common causes of death in the developed world account only for a minute fraction of deaths in Eswatini; for example, heart disease, strokes, and cancer cause fewer than 5% of deaths in total, compared to 55% of all deaths yearly in the US.\n\nIn 2004, the Swaziland government acknowledged for the first time that it suffered an AIDS crisis, with 38.8% of tested pregnant women infected with HIV (see AIDS in Africa). The then Prime Minister Themba Dlamini declared a humanitarian crisis due to the combined effect of drought, land degradation, increased poverty, and HIV/AIDS. According to the 2011 UNAIDS Report, Swaziland was close to achieving universal access to HIV/AIDS treatment, defined as 80% coverage or greater. Estimates of treatment coverage range from 70% to 80% of those infected.\nLife expectancy fell from 61 years in 2000 to 32 years in 2009.\n\nPublic expenditure for HIV/AIDS was 4% of the GDP of the country, whereas private expenditure was 2.3%. Infant mortality was 57.19 per 1,000 in 2014, 47% of all deaths under 5 were caused by HIV/AIDS.\n\nThere were 16 physicians per 100,000 persons in the early 2000s.\n\nIn September 2018 as the government had not paid suppliers the health service ran out of food and medicine. Swazipharm could not buy drugs. in May 2017 US$18 million was said to be owed to drug companies. There were only 12 working public ambulances in the country in June 2018. \n"}
{"id": "16077785", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16077785", "title": "Irish Institute of Medical Herbalists", "text": "Irish Institute of Medical Herbalists\n\nThe Irish Institute of Medical Herbalists (IIMH) is the professional organization for medical herbalists in Ireland. It was formally incorporated in 1990. The current criteria for membership of the IIMH is a BSc honours degree in herbal medicine which includes examinations in medicine and herbalism as well as supervised clinical practice. Members of the institute have the letters MIIMH after their names.\n\nThe IIMH developed the first BSc honours degree in herbal science in Ireland, in conjunction with Cork Institute of Technology. This is a four-year full-time undergraduate degree which forms part one of the necessary training for medical herbalists in Ireland. Part two comprises a two-year master's degree programme in clinical herbal medicine which is currently being developed and was due to commence in 2009.\n"}
{"id": "55769761", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55769761", "title": "Isaac Chen", "text": "Isaac Chen\n\nIsaac Chen is a neurosurgeon at the Presbyterian Medical Center of Philadelphia and the Veteran's Administration Medical Center. The Chen Laboratory works to \"develop novel methods for restoring the function of the brain after it has been damaged by combining aspects of stem cell biology, neural tissue engineering, and neural interface technologies.\"\n\nIn November 2017 it was reported that a team including Chen has successfully implanted brain organoids into rodents.\n\nHe graduated from Harvard University in 2002 with a BA in Biochemical Sciences followed by a MD from the University Of Pennsylvania in 2007.\n"}
{"id": "2184802", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2184802", "title": "J. Michael Bailey", "text": "J. Michael Bailey\n\nJohn Michael Bailey (born July 2, 1957) is an American psychologist and professor at Northwestern University. He is best known among scientists for his work on the etiology of sexual orientation, from which he concluded that homosexuality is substantially inherited. He also wrote \"The Man Who Would Be Queen\", which has elicited reactions ranging from strong criticism to a nomination for an award, later retracted, from the Lambda Literary Foundation, an organization that promotes gay literature. According to the Web of Science, Bailey's works have been cited nearly 2200 times and he has an h-index of 25.\n\nBailey was born in Lubbock, Texas. He obtained his Bachelor of Arts degree in mathematics from Washington University in 1979 and his Ph.D. in clinical psychology from the University of Texas at Austin in 1989, where he studied under behavioral genetics researcher Lee Willerman.\n\nBailey became a professor at Northwestern University in 1989. In the 1990s, Bailey published several papers that suggested a heritable component for sexual orientation. In 2003 he published \"The Man Who Would Be Queen\".\n\nIn October 2004, Bailey stepped down as chairman of the Psychology Department. Bailey continues to serve as a Northwestern professor.\n\nBailey is well known for research involving biology and sexual orientation. In the early 1990s Bailey and Richard Pillard coauthored a series of twin studies which examined the rate of concordance of sexual identity among monozygotic twins (52% concordance), dizygotic twins of the same sex (22%), non-twin siblings of the same sex, and adoptive siblings of the same sex (11%). More recent research by Bailey et al. on twins however found much lower concordance rates for monozygotic twins regarding homosexual orientation of only 20% for men and 24% for women pointing to a significant contribution of environmental factors in sexual orientation; Bailey suggests an explanation for the much lower concordance rate among monozygotic twins in this study as opposed to previous studies: In those previous studies, twins deciding whether to participate in a study clearly related to homosexuality probably considered the sexual orientation of their co-twins before agreeing to participate.\n\nAnother line of Bailey's research has concerned the ways that homosexuals are sex-atypical (or gender nonconforming) compared with heterosexuals, as well as the ways that homosexuals are sex-typical and gender conforming. For example, he published a meta-analysis showing that on average, homosexual men and women recall being much more gender nonconforming children, compared with heterosexual children. In contrast, he also showed that for many traits related to mating (such as interest in casual sex, and emphasis on a partner's physical attractiveness), homosexuals appear to be similar to heterosexuals of their own sex. Recently, he has researched the gaydar phenomenon.\n\nBailey has been interested in the evolutionary paradox of the persistence of homosexuality. \"Male homosexuality is evolutionarily maladaptive,\" he told \"The New York Times\" which also noted that Bailey intended \"that the phrase means only that genes favoring homosexuality cannot be favored by evolution if fewer such genes reach the next generation.\"\n\nIn an article coauthored with Aaron Greenberg, he suggested that allowing parents to choose the sexual orientation of their children is morally acceptable, provided the means used to accomplished that goal are themselves morally acceptable. (For example, killing infants who will become homosexual would obviously be wrong. The acceptability of aborting \"gay fetuses\" or \"straight fetuses\" would depend on whether one believed that abortion, per se, is morally acceptable.) Alice Dreger criticized Greenberg's and Bailey's argument and they responded.\n\nA third line of research has examined sexual arousal patterns and their relation to sexual orientation in men and women. This research has focused on both genital and self-reported sexual arousal measures. For example, Bailey's lab showed that men's genital sexual arousal patterns closely tracked their sexual orientations, but women's did not. In 2005 this research produced a study which questioned whether male bisexuality exists in the way that it is sometimes described; the study was based on results of penile plethysmograph testing. The testing found that of men who identified themselves as bisexual, 75% were only aroused genitally by sexual imagery of men, and 25% were only aroused genitally by sexual imagery of women. They concluded: \"Male bisexuality appears primarily to represent a style of interpreting or reporting sexual arousal rather than a distinct pattern of genital sexual arousal.\" The study received wide attention after a \"New York Times\" piece on the study. A 2011 study using similar methodology filtered participants more stringently, requiring at least two sexual partners of each sex and at least one romantic relationship lasting three months or longer; this study finds both genital and subjective arousal, though it is not clear which arousal pattern is more prevalent in the modern bisexual community.\n\nThe 2005 article and study were criticized by gay and bisexual groups and by FAIR. Critics argued the sample size was relatively small, consisting of one hundred (100) men. Also, all of these subjects were \"self-selected\", from ads placed in gay and \"alternative\" publications. Then the researchers had to disregard results of thirty-five percent (35%) of this population, as non-responders. Agreeing with the author's conclusion that bisexuality is a subjective experience, the late Fritz Klein, a sex researcher and the author of \"The Bisexual Option\" argued that \"social and emotional attraction are very important elements in bisexual attraction.\"\n\nBailey's sexual arousal work was attacked by \"The Washington Times\" and some socially conservative commentators as prurient and a waste of taxpayer dollars. Bailey and his defenders have responded that studying sexual arousal patterns is important in understanding human sexuality, especially sexual orientation. Recently, Bailey's lab has begun to study sexual orientation and sexual arousal using fMRI.\n\nBailey's book \"The Man Who Would Be Queen: The Science of Gender Bending and Transsexualism\" was published in 2003. In it, Bailey reviewed evidence that male homosexuality is innate, a result of heredity and prenatal environment. He also reviewed the theory of Ray Blanchard that there are two unrelated forms of transsexualism, one that is an extreme type of homosexuality and one that is an expression of a paraphilia known as autogynephilia. Written in a popular science style, the book summarized research supporting Bailey's opinions.\n\nThe book generated considerable controversy. The most detailed investigation into that controversy was reported by Alice Dreger, a bioethicist and historian, known for her activism in support of intersex rights. Dreger included additional details in \"Galileo’s Middle Finger,\" an analysis of modern clashes between scientists and activists whose beliefs are challenged by them. In her documented account of the Bailey case, she concluded that a small group of self-styled activists tried to bury a politically challenging scientific theory by attacking Bailey. \"These critics, rather than restrict themselves to the argument over the ideas, had charged Bailey with a whole host of serious crimes,\" but that \"what they claimed about Bailey simply wasn't true.\"\n\nA transgender woman that he described in the book filed a complaint with Northwestern University alleging that her many discussions with Bailey about his view of trans women and the book he was writing made her a non-consensual subject of IRB-regulated research by Bailey, and that during this time, she had consensual sex with him. Northwestern found no basis for the complaint. Transgender professors Lynn Conway and Deirdre McCloskey filed a complaint against Bailey with Illinois state regulators, alleging that he practiced psychology without a license by providing brief case evaluation letters suggesting candidacy for sex reassignment surgery; however, the department did not pursue those allegations, as he did not accept remuneration for the services and therefore did not violate the law. At least two women who said they were subjects in his book filed a complaint with Northwestern alleging that Bailey committed scientific misconduct by not informing them that they were to be the subjects of research used in the writing of his book. Northwestern did investigate this allegation. Although the findings of that investigation were not released, Northwestern's Vice President for Research, C. Bradley Moore, said, \"The allegations of scientific misconduct made against Professor J. Michael Bailey do not fall under the federal definition of scientific misconduct.\" and that the university \"has established a protocol to help ensure that Professor Bailey's research activities involving human subjects are conducted in accordance with the expectations of the University, the regulations and guidelines established by the federal government and with generally accepted research standards.\" Bailey says that he did nothing wrong and that the attacks on him were motivated by the desire to suppress discussion of the book's ideas about transsexualism, especially autogynephilia. Alice Dreger, a bioethicist, published an account of the controversy in the \"Archives of Sexual Behavior\". According to Dreger, the allegations of misconduct could accurately be described as \"harassment\", and an \"anti-Bailey campaign\". Dreger wrote that of the four women who complained to Northwestern, two acknowledged that they were aware they would be included in Bailey's book in their letter to the university. The other two were not described in the book. Dreger also reported that while there was no definitive evidence to refute the allegation of sexual misconduct, datestamps on e-mails between Bailey and his ex-wife indicated that he was at her home looking after their two children at the time the misconduct was said to have occurred. The journal published in the same issue 23 commentaries regarding multiple aspects of the controversy, including criticism of Dreger's analysis.\n\nOutside of the transsexual community and sexology researchers, this controversy is largely notable because of its implications for academic freedom and freedom of speech. In an interview with \"The New York Times\", Dreger said, \"If we're going to have research at all, then we're going to have people saying unpopular things, and if this is what happens to them, then we've got problems not only for science but free expression itself.\" While Conway compared his work to Nazi propaganda, and Andrea James posted pictures of his children on her website with sexually explicit captions, other critics believe that their actions against Bailey and his book represent legitimate comment on a topic of public interest.\n\nHelen Boyd explained what might have motivated some to object to the book:\nIn response to such criticisms, Bailey reiterated a line from his book: \"True acceptance of the transgendered requires that we truly understand who they are.\"\n\nBailey and his work were featured prominently in a \"Boston Globe\" story by Neil Swidey entitled \"What Makes People Gay?\" That story was included in the 2006 volume of \"The Best American Science Writing.\"\n\nBailey and his lab were also prominent in the CBS News \"60 Minutes\" story \"Gay or Straight?,\" which first aired on March 12, 2006 and was the most popular news story on the CBS News website the following week. This story provoked reactions ranging from \"fantastic and fascinating\" by gay author Jeremy Hooper at the Good As You blog to negative comments from gay author David Ehrenstein, who noted the show was \"replete with the sort of clichés about gay men and effeminacy that haven’t been seen in a network news context since the 1967 CBS broadcast .\" Shari Finkelstein, the producer of the \"Gay or Straight\" segment, responded: \"We were aware of the controversy surrounding Michael Bailey's book, and we looked into all the allegations before we decided to interview him for the story...\" She concluded: \"We didn't feel there was anything that disqualified him from being interviewed. And in fact, his work is highly regarded by all of the researchers in the field who we spoke with, and we felt that he was a very worthy person to discuss these issues.\"\n\nIn 2011, Bailey's human sexuality class at Northwestern made the headlines of major news organizations after he allowed a female guest speaker and her male partner to perform an impromptu live mechanized sex toy demonstration using a \"fucksaw\"—a modified reciprocating saw converted into a sex toy by attaching a \"phallic object\" instead of a blade—to bring the woman to orgasm in front the audience. Students were advised beforehand of the nature of the demonstration in this optional after-class event on kinky sex and female orgasm. In the aftermath, Northwestern University President Morton Schapiro criticized Bailey for \"extremely poor judgment\" and launched an investigation. Bailey at first defended the demonstration, saying that students found lectures featuring guest speakers valuable, but subsequently issued an apology, saying he regretted the upset caused and its effect on the university's reputation. He said there would be no repeats, but maintained that the demonstration had been relevant to the topic of his course, and said that the students who chose to attend were over 18, \"legally capable of voting, enlisting in the military, and consuming pornography\", and contended that the criticism he had received was poorly reasoned. The response among academics was mixed. Joseph Epstein criticized Bailey's class as failing academic standards in a long piece for \"The Weekly Standard\", and ultimately compared Bailey to a pimp. In contrast, Laurie Essig, writing in \"The Chronicle of Higher Education\", thought that the incident \"triggered a national conversation about what we can and cannot look at\". In a web-only feature for \"Esquire\", Bailey's former research assistant Paul Schrodt defended his teaching and research methods. Alice Dreger also defended Bailey's class as being of high quality in general, but agreed with Schapiro that the demonstration \"was a case of poor judgment, because it wasn't worth it\". Eventually, in response to the incident, Northwestern administrators removed Bailey's human sexuality course from the following year's curriculum. A year later, Northwestern reintroduced a somewhat differently themed sexuality class taught by Lane Fenrich, according to whom the new class emphasized \"the major questions\" and \"the major thinkers\" rather than being \"geared toward sexual practices\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50342807", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50342807", "title": "Jalyukt Shivar Abhiyan", "text": "Jalyukt Shivar Abhiyan\n\nThe Maharashtra government in India has launched a water conservation scheme named Jalyukt Shivar Abhiyan to make Maharashtra a drought-free state by 2019. The programme aims to make 5000 villages free of water scarcity every year.\n\nThe key aim of Jalyukta Shivar Abhiyan is to establish belief in a farmer that “every drop of rainwater is owned by me and it should percolate in my land”.\n\nThe flagship programme launched by Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis, Jalyukta Shivar Abhiyan aims to bring water empowerment to 25,000 drought-affected villages in Maharashtra within next five years. The programme Jalyukt Shivar was initiated by Pankaja Munde .With the passing time, the scheme has been going strong with villages building infrastructure and making the programme one of the largest Government initiatives in terms of public participation.\nThe Water Conservation Department of Maharashtra government conducted a logo competition on the Maharashtra MyGov Portal with an objective to widen its scope of public participation in flagship program. \n\nMr Kishor Gaikwad received in Mumbai an awarde for best design by Hon. Chief Minister of Maharashtra Devendra Fadnavis on 4 January 2018.\n\n"}
{"id": "52466276", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52466276", "title": "Joseph Mechlin Jr.", "text": "Joseph Mechlin Jr.\n\nJoseph Mechlin Jr. (died 1839) was a physician and colonial agent of the American Colonization Society in Liberia two times.\n"}
{"id": "19094445", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19094445", "title": "Jungian Type Index", "text": "Jungian Type Index\n\nThe Jungian Type Index (JTI) is an alternative to the Myers–Briggs Type Indicator (MBTI). Introduced by Optimas in 2001, the JTI was developed over a 10-year period in Norway by psychologists Thor Ødegård and Hallvard E: Ringstad. The JTI was designed to help capture individuals' preferred usage of the psychological functions identified by Carl Jung in his book \"Psychological Types\", such as thinking vs feeling and sensing vs intuition. \n\nThe JTI's questions and methodology for identifying the preferred functions differs from the MBTI. For example it eliminates word pairs, which can be troublesome to translate from English into other languages. In many languages, the sentence context frames the meaning of a word, while in English the words themselves may denote more meaning.\n\nSimilar to the MBTI, the JTI identifies 4 categories from which the 16 types are formed: Extraversion/Introversion, Intuiting/Sensing, Thinking/Feeling, Perceiving/Judging. A personality type is reached through an examination or introspection about these categories. For example, an Intuiting, Thinking, Judging Extrovert would be classified as an ENTJ. However, further complexity lies below this surface-level classification. Each personality types has its associated Jungian cognitive functions, which aim to further explain the ways in which each type perceives and interacts with reality. Each type has all 4 of the cognitive functions (Thinking, Feeling, Intuiting, and Sensing) arranged in a different order and with different levels of introversion/extroversion. Of the two middle letters of any type, one will be the primary function with which they interact with the world, and one will be the auxiliary. For example, an ENTJ's primary function is (extraverted) Thinking, and their secondary function is (introverted) Intuiting.\nThough it is relatively unknown in the United States, but it has won some market shares in Scandinavia although the original MBTI tool is still the most commonly used. In Norway and Sweden, the JTI is also gaining users, in conjunction with other tools that complement the JTI for career development and coaching. It also has distributors in the Netherlands, China, and Germany.\n\nSome MBTI practitioners argue that the application of type dynamics (e.g. with inferred types like \"Extraverted Sensing\") to MBTI is a logical category error that has little empirical evidence backing it. Instead, they argue the best evidence for Myers Briggs types comes when the types are viewed as separate categories that function independent from one another as dichotomous types.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25211094", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25211094", "title": "Knockout moss", "text": "Knockout moss\n\nA knockout moss is a moss plant in which one or more specific genes are deleted or inactivated (\"knocked out\") by gene targeting. After deletion of a gene, the knockout moss has lost the trait encoded by this gene. Thus, the function of this gene can be inferred. This scientific approach is called reverse genetics as the scientist wants to unravel the function of a specific gene. In classical genetics the scientist starts with a phenotype of interest and searches for the gene that causes this phenotype. Knockout mosses are relevant for basic research in biology as well as in biotechnology.\n\nThe targeted deletion or alteration of genes relies on the integration of a DNA strand at a specific and predictable position into the genome of the host cell. This DNA strand must be engineered in such a way that both ends are identical to this specific gene locus. This is a prerequisite for being efficiently integrated via homologous recombination (HR). Basically, a knockout mouse is engineered in the same way.\nSo far, this method of gene targeting in land plants has been carried out in the mosses \"Physcomitrella patens\" and \"Ceratodon purpureus\", since in these non-seed plant species the efficiency of HR is several orders of magnitude higher than in seed plants.\n\nKnockout mosses are stored at and distributed by a specialized Biobank, the International Moss Stock Center.\n\nFor altering moss genes in a targeted way, the DNA-construct needs to be incubated together with moss protoplasts and with polyethylene glycol (PEG). As mosses are haploid organisms, the regenerating moss filaments (protonemata) can be directly assayed for gene targeting within 6 weeks when utilizing PCR-methods.\n\nThe first scientific publication about identification of the function of a hitherto unknown gene utilizing knockout moss appeared 1998 and was authored by Ralf Reski and coworkers. They deleted the ftsZ-gene and thus functionally identified the first gene pivotal for the division of an organelle in any eukaryote.\n\nBy multiple gene knockout \"Physcomitrella\" plants were engineered, that lack the plant-specific glycosylation of proteins, an important post-translational modification. These knockout mosses are used to produce complex biopharmaceuticals in the field of molecular farming.\n\nIn cooperation with the chemical company BASF Ralf Reski and coworkers established a collection of knockout mosses that is used for gene identification.\n"}
{"id": "33076127", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33076127", "title": "Labial fusion", "text": "Labial fusion\n\nLabial fusion is a medical condition of the female genital anatomy where the labia minora become fused together. It is generally a pediatric condition.\n\nThe condition is known by a number of names, including labial fusion, labial adhesion, labial synechiae, labial agglutination, labial adherence, gynatresia, vulvar fusion, and vulvar synechiae.\n\nLabial fusion is never present at birth, but rather acquired later in infancy, since it is caused by insufficient estrogen exposure and newborns have been exposed to maternal estrogen \"in utero\". It typically presents in infants at least 3 months old. Most presentations are asymptomatic and are discovered by a parent or during routine medical examination. In other cases, patients may present with associated symptoms of dysuria, urinary frequency, refusal to urinate, or post-void dribbling. Some patients present with vaginal discharge due to pooling of urine in the vulval vestibule or vagina.\nLabial fusion can lead to urinary tract infection, vulvar vestibulitis and inflammation caused by chronic urine exposure. In severe cases, labial adhesions can cause complete obstruction of the urethra, leading to anuria and urinary retention.\n\nThe primary contributing factor to labial fusion is low estrogen levels. A vulva with low estrogen exposure, such as that of a preadolescent, has delicate epithelial lining and is therefore vulnerable to irritation. Conditions causing irritation, such as infection, inflammation and trauma, cause the edges of the labia minora to fuse together. The fusion typically begins at the posterior frenulum of the labia minora and continues anteriorly.\n\nMost labial adhesions resolve spontaneously before puberty as estrogen levels increase and the vaginal epithelium becomes cornified.\nThe condition can be diagnosed based on inspection of the vulva. In patients with labial fusion, a flat plane of tissue with a dense central line of tissue is usually seen when the labia majora are retracted, while an anterior opening is usually present below the clitoris.\n\nTreatment is not usually necessary in asymptomatic cases, since most fusions will separate naturally over time, but may be required when symptoms are present. The standard method of treatment for labial fusion is the application of topical estrogen cream onto the areas of adhesion, which is effective in 90% of patients. In severe cases where the labia minora are entirely fused, causing urinary outflow obstruction or vaginal obstruction, the labia should be separated surgically. Recurrence after treatment is common but is thought to be prevented by good hygiene practices. One study has shown that betamethasone may be more effective than estrogen cream in preventing recurrence, with fewer side effects.\n\nLabial fusion is not uncommon in infants and young girls. It is most common in infants between the ages of 13 and 23 months, and has an incidence of 3.3% in this age group. It is estimated that labial fusion occurs in 1.8% of all prepubertal girls. It is rare in adult women, particularly in reproductive age, but is occasionally found in postpartum and postmenopausal women.\n\n"}
{"id": "30745470", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30745470", "title": "LifeSpring Hospitals", "text": "LifeSpring Hospitals\n\nLifeSpring Hospitals is an Indian hospital chain, which provides maternity care to women from the low-income group in Hyderabad, India. Established in 2005, it is a 50-50 joint venture between $30-million Acumen Fund, a U.S.-based nonprofit global venture philanthropy fund and HLL Lifecare Limited, a Government of India -owned corporation and the largest manufacturer of condoms in the world.\n\nAs of September 2017 it provided affordable healthcare to 5,500,000 women with its ten hospitals in Hyderabad, and one hospital in Visakhapatnam, Andhra Pradesh, India, providing maternity and pediatric care at 30-50 percent of market rates, and is the first healthcare chain to join the 'Business Call to Action' (BCtA), an initiative of United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and UN Global Compact amongst others, to reduce poverty, hunger, disease, and maternal and child deaths by 2015.\n\nThe first LifeSpring hospital was started on 10 December 2005 in Moula-Ali, on the outskirts on Hyderabad, India, as a pilot project within Hindustan Latex Family Planning Promotion Trust (HLFPPT) of Hindustan Latex Limited, now HLL Lifecare Limited (HLL) for low-cost healthcare. In February 2008, it was formed as into a private limited company with 50-50 joint venture between Acumen Fund, a U. S.-based nonprofit global venture philanthropy fund and HLL. The project was headed by Anant Kumar, who was till then the business head of Social Franchising in HLFPPT, who later became LifeSpring's CEO. HLL is a public-sector undertaking under the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, Government of India, while New York-based Acumen, was established in 2001, with seed capital from the Rockefeller Foundation, Cisco Systems Foundation and three individual philanthropists.\n\nThe hospital established a model of building a chain of small-sized (25-bed) hospitals specializing in standard maternity services thus provide low-cost services in high-density area populated by low-income groups. It also provides paediatric care, including immunizations, and offers diagnostic services, pharmacy and healthcare education to the local communities. It uses CRM to track customers in real time and runs a web-based patient database.\n\nMr. Anant Kumar was part of the roundtable of \"entrepreneurs with innovative models\", at the Trident Hotel, Mumbai, during the November 2010, visit of US President, Barack Obama. Mr. Anant Kumar was the CEO of LifeSpring till January 2013.\n\nLater, Mr Sushmit Mitra took over as CEO. Under him, Lifespring established one hospital in Vizag and has grown from around 350 deliveries per month to about 550 deliveries per month. He was the CEO till June 2017.\n\nCurrently, LifeSpring Hospitals offers its services through 11 branches and 8 extension centers. Of these, 10 branches and 8 extension centers are in Hyderabad, India and one branch is in Visakhapatnam. Lifespring delivered around 20,000 healthy babies in the last 3 years. Since inception Lifespring has delivered a total of 50,000 healthy babies. Annually, LifeSpring Hospitals deliver about 6% babies born in the city of Hyderabad.\n\n"}
{"id": "42536215", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42536215", "title": "List of Indian states by Child Nutrition", "text": "List of Indian states by Child Nutrition\n\nThis is a list of Indian states ranked by the status of effective coverage of supplementary nutrition program for children. The figures come from the 2011 Evaluation Report on Integrated Child Development Services (ICDS) published by Planning Commission, Government of India \n"}
{"id": "55528306", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55528306", "title": "Mahalapye District Hospital", "text": "Mahalapye District Hospital\n\nMahalapye District Hospital is a government-run district hospital located in Mahalapye, a town located in the Central District of Botswana. The town has about 41,000 inhabitants and is situated along the main road between the capital Gaborone and the second largest city Francistown.\n\nMahalapye hospital was founded in 2008 by the government with the aim of bringing health care services closer to the community. It is located in the central district of Botswana on the Francistown- Gaborone road side.\n\nBotswana Ministry of Health\n"}
{"id": "42408294", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42408294", "title": "Mick Parker", "text": "Mick Parker\n\nMichael Francis \"Mick\" Parker (10 March 1973 – 4 June 2009) was an Australian mountaineer and graphic designer. He climbed extensively in the Himalaya and Karakorum and summited five of the fourteen eight-thousanders. After ascending Makalu in 2009, he fell ill due to dissipated pulmonary and cerebral oedema and subsequently died in Kathmandu on 4 June, aged 36.\n\nMick Parker was born in Box Hill, a suburb of Melbourne, to Gail and Bruce Parker. He attended Donburn Primary School and Wesley College, where he took up cross country running and rock climbing, before leaving school to study graphic arts at Box Hill Senior Secondary College.\n\nParker's passion for climbing began in 1996 when he took an ice climbing course in New Zealand. In 2003 he climbed Cho Oyu's northwest face from Tibet after an unsuccessful attempt on Kangchenjunga. He summited Broad Peak for the first time in Pakistan in 2004 (he made a second unsuccessful attempt in 2006). In 2005, he made attempts to climb Mount Everest and K2, but failed in both. On K2, he chose to give up his chance of reaching the summit in order to bring an endangered Irish climber to safety and escort him back to base camp; on Everest, he was forced to retreat because of poor weather. In 2007, Parker joined the Australian Army Alpine Association—for whom he led numerous expeditions—on their attempt to climb Gasherbrum I in Pakistan. After leaving the rest of the team who decided to turn around, he continued climbing alone and reached the summit on 29 July, becoming the second Australian to have climbed the mountain. He also made a solo attempt on Dhaulagiri I in 2007, but abandoned the expedition after falling into a crevasse. In 2008, Parker made his second attempt on Manaslu in Nepal, reaching the summit on 14 May. Later that year, he returned to Dhaulagiri but was unsuccessful again.\n\nParker climbed Makalu with Roland Hunter in 2009, summiting on 21 May. Suffering from dissipated pulmonary and cerebral oedema, he fell unconscious several times on the return journey from Makalu to Kathmandu and ultimately died in Kathmandu on 4 June, aged 36. His father travelled to Nepal to retrieve Parker's body and bring it back to Melbourne, where Parker was buried in Lilydale Memorial Park. In 2010, Parker's family donated a collection of his climbing equipment to an exhibit at the National Sports Museum in Melbourne.\n\nBy the time of his death, Parker had attempted to climb nine of the fourteen mountains over 8,000 metres high, and had summited five—Cho Oyu, Broad Peak, Gasherbrum I, Manaslu, and Makalu—all without the assistance of Sherpa guides or bottled oxygen.\n"}
{"id": "1578751", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1578751", "title": "Mission Barrio Adentro", "text": "Mission Barrio Adentro\n\nMission \"Barrio Adentro (English: Into the Neighborhood\" Mission) is a Bolivarian national social welfare program established under late Venezuelan president Hugo Chávez. The program seeks to provide comprehensive publicly funded health care, dental care, and sports training to poor and marginalized communities in Venezuela. \"Barrio Adentro\" features the construction of thousands of iconic two-storey medical clinics—\"consultorios\" or doctor’s offices—as well as staffing with resident certified medical professionals. \"Barrio Adentro\" constitutes an attempt to deliver a \"de facto\" form of universal healthcare, seeking to guarantee access to quality and cradle-to-grave medical attention for all Venezuelan citizens.\n\nThe Latin American branch of the World Health Organization and UNICEF both praised the program in its early years. According to WHO statistics, infant mortality fell from 23 to 20 in males and 19 to 17 in females per 1,000 births between 2003 and 2005.\n\nOf a planned 8,500 Barrio Adentro I centers, 2,708 had been built by May 2007, using an investment of around US$126 million, with a further 3,284 under construction. As of 2006, the staff included 31,439 professionals, technical personnel, and health technicians, of which 15,356 were Cuban doctors and 1,234 Venezuelan doctors.\n\nIn 2014, the government celebrated 11 years of the mission, announcing that over 10,000 clinics were created. In Caracas, Mission Barrio Adentro I and II centers in 32 parishes were the subject of constant complaints about performance even after being funded Bs 1.492 million by the government. Councilman Alejandro Vivas stated that \"instead of having positive results, what is observed is the discontent of the citizens for a performance that leaves much to be desired\". As of December 2014, it was estimated that 80% of Barrio Adentro establishments were abandoned in Venezuela, with the majority of Cuban medical personnel leaving the country.\n\nBy the end of 2015, the Bolivarian government reported that of all Venezuelans admitted to public health facilities that year, one-in-three patients died. One year later in October 2016, it was reported by the Miami Herald that hundreds of doctors were being recalled by Cuba, allegedly due to a lack of payments by Venezuela.\n\nThe Barrio Adentro program was developed against a background of a public health sector crumbling under long-term financial pressure. As part of the neoliberalisation programme of the early 1990s under President Rafael Caldera, a Venezuela struggling with inflation and a low oil price (oil being its primary export) was forced into spending cuts and privatisation in a number of sectors, including healthcare. A 1989 decentralisation law contributed to the trend; from 1993, state governors could request the transfer of public healthcare in their state to their control, and the inability to cope with the new responsibility encouraged cuts and privatisation. Cost recovery became increasingly prevalent through \"voluntary\" contributions from users. In addition to the problems with the healthcare system, over the course of the decade, health problems caused by poverty (infectious and deficiency diseases) increased. By 1999, 67.7% of the Venezuelan population was living in poverty, from 44.4% in 1990.\n\nIn 1999, following the election of Hugo Chávez, the Ministry of Health planned to develop a new National Public Health System, with a particular focus on health promotion, disease prevention, community participation, and the strengthening of the primary health care infrastructure. The 2000/1 annual report by PROVEA highlighted a number of positive features of the new approach, including a wider availability of health services through progressive elimination of users’ fees.\n\nThe Barrio Adentro program is an example of Latin American social medicine (LASM), which became prominent in the 1960s and 1970s. Amongst others in Latin America, both Salvador Allende in Chile in the early 1970s and Tabaré Vázquez in Uruguay from 2005 have implemented LASM principles. LASM's roots can be traced back to 19th-century European social medicine (particularly the work of social medicine pioneer Rudolf Virchow), which was exported to Latin America in the early 20th century.\n\nLASM emphasises a collective and holistic approach to healthcare, rather than merely treating the particular symptoms of one individual. Thus the importance of health promotion and disease prevention is stressed—informed by the political-economic and social determinants of health—over a merely reactive treatment of health problems as they occur. LASM incorporates the concept of primary health care (as defined by the 1978 Alma Ata Declaration), of which the \"simplified healthcare\" adopted in rural Venezuela in the 1960s and 1970s was one form. More recently, in 2006, Barrio Adentro was described by the Director of the PAHO as \"the culmination of 25 years of experience in Latin America and the rest of the world in transforming health systems through the primary health care strategy.\"\n\nWhen Hugo Chávez became President in 1999, he sought to implement LASM principles, beginning with their incorporation into the new 1999 Venezuelan Constitution, in articles 83–85 of Title III. These articles enshrine free and high quality healthcare as a human right guaranteed to all Venezuelan citizens. Notably, Article 84 of Title III follows LASM principles in declaring health promotion and disease prevention a priority; it also describes the healthcare system as \"decentralised and participative\" and declares that the community has \"the right and the duty\" to be involved in policy decisions regarding the public health system. In addition, Article 85 mandates that the government provide adequate funding for the public healthcare system, while Article 84 explicitly proscribes its privatization.\n\nInitial attempts to transform the Ministry of Health to LASM principles, in the 1999–2003 period, met with little success. The Venezuelan Medical Federation was aligned with the Punto Fijo parties, and many of its members in private health care opposed the new emphasis on the public sector. At the same time that the new policies failed to make much ground within the healthcare system, the traditional top-down way in which the policies were developed and carried out prevented a strong connection with the concerns of the poor.\n\nThe origins of a different approach for carrying out LASM lay in the Libertador municipality of Caracas, which in 2003 (under a pro-Chávez mayor, Freddy Bernal) set up an Institute for Endogenous Development (IED), broadly intended to improve living conditions through the active participation of the local population. Following a series of discussions between IED and local residents, a proposal was formulated to set up a \"Plan Barrio Adentro\" using small local clinics to provide free healthcare \"inside the neighbourhood\" where previously there was none, and to involve residents in the management of the scheme. Bernal then issued a call for doctors, but the Venezuelan Medical Federation put pressure on its members not to apply. Of the 50 Venezuelan doctors who did apply, 30 left on hearing that they would need to live in the barrios; the remaining 20 were specialists and therefore employed in specialist centers and not required to work in the primary health care centers in the barrios. Faced with a lack of willing doctors, Bernal recalled the Cuban doctors who had provided emergency aid following the 1999 mud slides, and discussion with the Cuban Embassy in February 2003 ultimately led to a contingent of 58 Cuban doctors starting the program in April 2003. In the interim, three Cuban physicians spent a month visiting the barrios, examining the homes and clinic spaces offered by the community. By May 2003, another 100 Cuban doctors arrived, and were sent to other parts of Libertador and to other municipalities in and around Caracas. Besides diagnosis and treatment, including the provision of free prescription drugs, the doctors carried out a health census of the barrios, which provided a complete health survey of the Caracas barrios for the first time.\n\nDespite some obstacles (including a refusal by public hospitals to accept referrals for diagnosis and treatment, only gradually and partially overcome during 2003), \"Plan Barrio Adentro\" became very popular with its constituents. By December 2003, \"Plan Barrio Adentro\"—having seen over 9 million patient consultations and 4 million health interventions—was so popular that it was attracting national attention, and President Chávez transformed it into a national program, named \"Mission Barrio Adentro\" (MBA). It became the first of a series of popular \"missions\" bypassing existing public institutions.\n\n\"The key aspect of these centers is that they are located within the neighborhood and in the marginalized zones of the large cities,\" although some facilities were located in higher income areas. \"Placement of Barrio Adentro health posts within those neighborhoods that had been most excluded was undertaken at the request of the neighborhood health committees and taking into consideration preexisting health care facilities.\"\n\nA key part of the national Barrio Adentro scheme, as it was in the original local plan, is the participation of the local community. This takes place through health committees, chosen in an assembly of citizens and typically around 10 people. By 2006, some 8,951 health committees had been registered, one for each primary care post. (The total was already 6,241 in 2004.) A total of 41,639 community health assemblies were held in the first quarter of 2006, with the participation of 1,423,815 people.\n\nThe issue of participation goes beyond mere management. As one academic study put it, \"the observed role of positive, egalitarian clinical interactions between Cuban physicians and Venezuelan patients and other residents suggests that doctor–patient interactions model power relations between communities and institutions and affect local perceptions and participation.\" It concluded that developing more positive and egalitarian physician/patient and professional/community relationships \"may be one of the easiest, most effective ways\" the medical profession can contribute to overcoming health disparities.\n\nEach primary care post covered 250 to 300 families. By 2003, primary medical care coverage was achieved for 70% of the Venezuelan population for whom primary care was previously unavailable, representing over 18 million people. By 2007, 3,717 primary care posts had been built and equipped, and a total of 8,633 posts were operational (including those still located in community centers and homes). There were also 4,800 dentists. In 1998, Venezuela had only 1,628 staffed primary care posts, and 800 dentists. Between 1998 and 2007, this represented an increase of 530% and 600%, respectively.\n\nIn addition to the new infrastructure, there were also new outreach programmes. For example, in addition to the drug module for the popular medical dispensaries (which provided free access to 106 essential medicines designed to cover the needs at this level of care), a family drug module was launched in 2005. This programme reached 40 selected municipalities in 17 states, and every three months delivered drugs and vitamin supplements tailored to the family's needs. Hundreds of thousands of infants, children, and pregnant and elderly women have benefited. Over 150,000 health promoters from local communities were trained in 2004–2006 to spread messages relating to ways of improving health.\n\nAfter the Barrio Adentro's primary care network went nationwide in 2004, moves to expand beyond primary care soon followed. What became known as \"Barrio Adentro I\" focused on primary health care. \"Barrio Adentro II\" focused on secondary care, in three main areas: Comprehensive Diagnosis Centers (for more advanced diagnosis), Comprehensive Rehabilitation Centers (for people with disabilities, another social deficit uncovered by Barrio Adentro I—there were only 78 public sector centers in 1998), and Advanced Technology Centers (for more advanced treatment). Plans were made for 600 each of the first two facilities (each serving a population of approximately 40,000 to 50,000) and 35 of the latter (with at least one in each state).\n\nAs of 2007, Barrio Adentro II involved 417 Comprehensive Diagnostic Centers (of 600 planned), 576 Comprehensive Rehabilitation Centers (of 600 planned), and 22 Advanced Technology Centers (of 35 planned). Key modern technology is split between CDCs and ATCs (by 2007 CDCs had 13 of the 19 public sector MRI machines, ATCs 15 of the 26 CT scanners). In 1998, there was only one MRI machine and five CT scanners in the public sector.\n\nBarrio Adentro III provides care for those cases which cannot be resolved at the two lower levels—major illnesses, palliative and specialist care. Care is available 24 hours a day. Barrio Adentro IV is responsible for the most complicated and specialized medical and surgical needs. These are national and referral facilities where teaching and research is carried out. On 16 November 2006, the Chávez government introduced this phase of the Barrio Adentro project, with a planned 16 hospitals to be built around the country, especially in poor areas. The Dr. Gilberto Rodríguez Ochoa Latin American Children’s Cardiology Hospital, inaugurated in 2007, is the most notable example, being one of the largest centers of its kind in the world, with 142 hospital beds and 33 intensive care beds.\n\nAs the work of the first primary health care Barrio Adentro proceeded, censuses began to reveal \"the depth of the social deficits accumulated in these communities.\" The response was to expand into a number of new areas, creating new missions. Thus under Misión Alimentación, efforts are made to ensure that the vulnerable (children, elderly, etc.) receive at least two meals a day. Misión Robinson was created to address illiteracy, which in turn led to Misión Milagro to deal with the revealed deficit of ophthalmological care for eye disease.\n\nFrom 1998 to 2007, the infant mortality rate fell from 21.3 to 13 per 1,000 registered births. Between 2003 and 2007, 4,659 new comprehensive level I and II health care centers were built and equipped. Services in these centers is provided free of charge. However, Jorge Díaz-Polanco, a sociologist of the Center for Development Studies (CENDES), stated that despite an increase of investment, the maternal mortality rate increased and in 2009, the rate was 70 deaths per 100,000, the highest since the 1990s.\n\nIn 2004 and 2005, Barrio Adentro provided 150 million consultations, four times as many as the conventional outpatient network; 40% of these were home visits. \"In surveys conducted by the Venezuelan government's National Statistics Institute (INE) in Caracas, 97 percent of the respondents said that they were satisfied or very satisfied with their general medical consultations, and 98 percent said they had little or no difficulty gaining access to health care, while 88.5 percent said that they had some or considerable difficulty gaining access to health care prior to Barrio Adentro.\" However, in Caracas, Mission Barrio Adentro I and II centers in 32 parishes were the subject of constant complaints about performance even after being funded Bs 1.492 million by the government. Councilman Alejandro Vivas stated that \"instead of having positive results, what is observed is the discontent of the citizens for a performance that leaves much to be desired\". One academic study noted that the successes of the Barrio Adentro program in 2003 and 2004 may have \"crucially inﬂuenced\" Chávez's 59% to 41% victory in the Venezuelan recall referendum, 2004.\n\nBy 2017, it was reported by \"The Miami Herald\" that though the program had \"saved lives\", it was \"also clear the program is less effective than the administration would like the world to believe\", with reports of exaggerated and fraudulent data being reported by Cuban medical personnel who had previously worked under the mission.\n\nIn July 2007, Douglas León Natera, chairman of The Venezuelan Medical Federation, reported that up to 70% of the modules of Barrio Adentro have been either abandoned or were left unfinished. In some cases the Venezuelan government accused elected opposition officials of trying to impede or close existing Missions. In 2006 Chávez accused the governor of Zulia state of impeding Barrio Adentro there. According to investigative journalist Patricia Marcano, in 2010 the Venezuelan government promised to start 357 clinics but only 148 were completed. In 2012, 298 clinics were promised, while 175 were made and in 2013, 62 were promised, but only 35 were constructed.\n\nIn December 2014, it was estimated that 80% of Barrio Adentro establishments were abandoned with reports of some structures being filled with trash or being unintentional shelter for the homeless. The majority of Cuban medical personnel has also left Venezuela.\n\nIn August 2006, the United States under George W. Bush created the Cuban Medical Professional Parole program, specifically targeting Cuban medical personnel and encouraging them to defect when they are working in a country outside of Cuba. According to a 2007 paper published in The Lancet medical journal, \"growing numbers of Cuban doctors sent overseas to work are defecting to the USA\". Cuban doctors working abroad are reported to be monitored by \"minders\" and subject to curfew.\n\nIn February 2010, seven Cuban doctors who defected to the US introduced an indictment against the governments of Cuba and Venezuela and the oil company PDVSA for what they considered was a conspiracy to force them to work under conditions of \"modern slaves\" as payment for the Cuban government debt. In 2014, it was reported by Miami NGO, Solidarity Without Borders, that at least 700 Cuban medical personnel had left Venezuela in the past year and that up to hundreds of Cuban personnel had asked for advice on how to escape from Venezuela weekly. Solidarity Without Borders also stated that Cuban personnel cannot refuse to work, cannot express complaints and suffer with blackmail from threats against their family in Cuba.\n\nThe Venezuelan Medical Federation, the largest association of medical doctors in Venezuela, lobbied vigorously against the use of Cuban doctors in \"Mission Barrio Adentro\", and was in a legal dispute with the Chávez administration over the legitimacy of the Cuban doctors' licensure and practice. In 2003, they obtained a court order preventing Cuban doctors from practicing in Venezuela, on the basis that they were not properly licensed according to the Venezuelan system; a compromise was reached enabling them to continue working in Barrio Adentro.\n\nIn 2014, the Comptroller General of the Republic \"found serious irregularities in the process of repair, modernization and extension of eight national referral hospitals\". In 2006, the Venezuelan government funded companies without reasons and without certain regulations. The Comptroller said that the project was \"marked by weakness and improvisations\" and that \"[t]his authorization does not imply commitment to the Foundation or the MPPS (Ministry of Health)\".\n\nIn 2017, \"The Miami Herald\" reported that groups of Cuban health care workers who had defected from the program stated that due to the daily quotas of patients, they would often feel pressured to fake paperwork and throw away medicine, since regular audits of their supplies meant they needed them to match their patient count. If Cuban medical personnel did not meet their quotas, they were threatened with having their pay cut or being sent back to Cuba.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2956417", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2956417", "title": "Mission Identidad", "text": "Mission Identidad\n\nMission Identidad is one of the Bolivarian Missions (a series of anti-poverty and social welfare programs) implemented by Venezuelan president Hugo Chávez. This program provides Venezuelan national identity cards to facilitate access to the social services provided by the other Missions. \n\nMisión Identidad mainly seeks to ease the process of obtaining an ID card. Venezuela has had a national system of ID cards since the 1940s, and these ID documents need to be renewed every 10 years. Foreigners living in the country also need to possess an ID; this foreigner's ID would be equivalent to the U.S. alien registration card (or green card). In Venezuela, under this Mission, it is absolutely forbidden to ask any money for this document, and foreigners who comply with all the legal requirements can legally obtain one. Possession of this document is required before one can vote in Venezuelan elections.\n\nIn a study by the Center for a Secure Free Society (SFS), at least 173 people from the Middle East were caught with Venezuelan documentation. The SFS believes that the documentation was provided by the Venezuelan government through Mission Identidad, stating that 70% of the people came from Iran, Lebanon and Syria \"and had some connection with Hezbollah\". The majority allegedly had Venezuelan passports, IDs, visas and in some cases, even Venezuelan birth certificates. One of the key figures of the Venezuelan government noted in the SFS report was the Lebanese born former Minister of the Interior, Tarek El Aissami, who allegedly \"developed a sophisticated financial network and multi-level networks as a criminal-terrorist pipeline to bring Islamic militants to Venezuela and neighboring countries, and to send illicit funds from Latin America to the Middle East\".\n"}
{"id": "4354908", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4354908", "title": "NCI Metathesaurus", "text": "NCI Metathesaurus\n\nThe NCI Metathesaurus is product of the US National Cancer Institute's Enterprise Vocabulary Service, a collaborative effort of the NCI Center for Bioinformatics and the NCI Office of Communications. The NCI Metathesaurus is based on NLM's Unified Medical Language System Metathesaurus supplemented with additional cancer-centric vocabulary.\n\nThe public version of the NCI Metathesaurus currently contains all public domain vocabularies from the National Library of Medicine's UMLS Metathesaurus, as well as a growing number of NCI-specific vocabularies developed by the National Cancer Institute.\n\nThe public version of the NCI Metathesaurus also contains proprietary vocabularies. Certain vocabularies, such as ICD-10 and ICD-O-3, are made available, by permission, \"for non-commercial use only\". Others, specifically MedDRA, are made available subject to license restrictions. \n\n\n\n\"Note: the text of the first version of this article was adapted from the public domain text at http://ncimeta.nci.nih.gov/ \"\n"}
{"id": "39167017", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39167017", "title": "Nanwan Reservoir", "text": "Nanwan Reservoir\n\nThe scenic Nanwan Reservoir is located within the borough of Xinyang, Henan Province, China, situated on the Shihe river, one of the largest branches of the Huai River. The dam was constructed between 1952 and 1955. The dam has resulted in protection from floods, an increase in agriculture production, electricity production, and improved navigation that benefits tourism.The Nanwan Reservoir scenic spot has rich connotations of mountains and islands. It is known as \"The First Lake In Zhongyuan\". It is a national forest park and national irrigation works scenery zone.\n\nNanwan Reservoir is a famous natural scenic spot. Nanwan Reservoir and The Nanwan Reservoir national forest park comprise The Nanwan Reservoir Scenic Spot. There are 61 islands which are covered by forests interspersed in the Nanwan Reservoir.\nSince developed and constructed as a national forest scenic spot since 1991, a total investment of 80 million yuan has been invested to Nanwan Reservoir. Now 4 main scenic areas of Nanwan Reservoir scenic spot has completed,they are the water scenic area, the western hills scenic area,the dam scenic area and the pier scenic area. 42 scenic attractions has been constructed, for example, dragon Pavilion, Bird Island, Summer Island and Monkey Island,etc.\nThe dam is 816 metres long, 38.3 metres tall, and 8 metres wide at the crest.\nThe reservoir holds 16.3 cubic kilometres of water, and drains an 1100 km2 area. This capacity will reduce the frequency of major downstream flooding from once every ten years to once every 100 years.\n\nAn important function of the dam is to control flooding, which is a major problem for the seasonal river of the Huai River. Plenty of critical infrastructure is situated downstream of the dam, like Beijing-Guangzhou railway, Nanjing-Xi'an Railway, 107 State Road, 312 National Road, Beijing-Zhuhai Expressway, Beijing - Kowloon fiber optic cable, and Western Union fiber optic cable.\nThere are approximate 20 million tourists come to Nanwan Reservoir each year, bring 30 million yuan of tourism revenue to the local government. The basic tourism system of \"dinner, housing, transportation, traveling, shopping and entertainment\" has been established integradedly in Nanwan Reservoir scenic spot.\n\nNanwan Reservoir is famous of lush forest resources, the vast expansion of green water, many exotic islands and harbor, numerous exotic animals，beautiful and fascinating flowers and plants, long history, strong folk culture. It is a multi-function eco-tourism zone which gathers natural landscape, culture sight, economic education, forest health hygienical spot.\nHundreds of smart and lovely wild monkeys live in the Monkey Island, tourists like them much. Folk songs and dances performances and snakes technical performances on the Summer Island have unique local style. Wild boar, camels, lions, tigers and other animals lived in Baishou Gardon feast the visitors eyes.\nFish grown in Nanwan Reservoir are not only delicious but also rich in trace elements. The anti-cancer element \"Se\" in the fish of Nanwan Reservoir is 3-5 times more than the common fish. Especially the silver carp grown in Nanwan Reservoir which has rich DHA in its head is popular health treasures.\nUpstream area of Nanwan Reservoir is the authentic origin of Xinyang Maojian, which is a precious kind of green tea. It was imperial tribute since Tang Dynasty\n"}
{"id": "287543", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=287543", "title": "Necrotizing fasciitis", "text": "Necrotizing fasciitis\n\nNecrotizing fasciitis (NF), commonly known as flesh-eating disease, is an infection that results in the death of the body's soft tissue. It is a severe disease of sudden onset that spreads rapidly. Symptoms include red or purple skin in the affected area, severe pain, fever, and vomiting. The most commonly affected areas are the limbs and perineum.\nTypically, the infection enters the body through a break in the skin such as a cut or burn. Risk factors include poor immune function such as from diabetes or cancer, obesity, alcoholism, intravenous drug use, and peripheral vascular disease. It is not typically spread between people. The disease is classified into four types, depending on the infecting organism. Between 55 and 80% of cases involve more than one type of bacteria. Methicillin-resistant \"Staphylococcus aureus\" (MRSA) is involved in up to a third of cases. Medical imaging is helpful to confirm the diagnosis.\nNecrotizing fasciitis may be prevented with proper wound care and handwashing. It is usually treated with surgery to remove the infected tissue and intravenous antibiotics. Often, a combination of antibiotics is used, such as penicillin G, clindamycin, vancomycin, and gentamicin. Delays in surgery are associated with a much higher risk of death. Despite high-quality treatment, the risk of death is between 25 and 35%.\nNecrotizing fasciitis affects 0.4 to 1.0 person per 100,000 per year. Both sexes are affected equally. It becomes more common among older people and is rare in children. It has been described at least since the time of Hippocrates. The term \"necrotizing fasciitis\" first came into use in 1952.\n\nSymptoms may include fever, swelling, and complaint of excessive pain. The initial skin changes are similar to cellulitis or abscess, thus making the diagnosis at early stages difficult. Hardening of the skin and soft tissue and swelling beyond the area of skin changes are commonly present in those with early necrotizing changes. The redness and swelling usually blend into surrounding normal tissues. The overlying skin may appear shiny and tense. Other signs which are more suggestive of necrotizing changes (but present in later stages in 7 to 44% of the cases) are: formation of bullae, bleeding into the skin which is present before skin necrosis (skin turning from red to purple and black due to thrombosis of blood vessels), presence of gas in tissues, and reduced or absent sensation over the skin (due to the necrosis of the underlying nerves). Rapid progression to shock despite antibiotic therapy is another indication of necrotizing fasciitis. Necrotizing changes affecting the groin are known as Fournier gangrene.\n\nHowever, those who are immunocompromised (have cancer, use corticosteroid, on radiotherapy, chemotherapy, HIV/AIDS, or prior organ or bone marrow transplantation) may not show normal symptoms. Immunocompromised persons also have two-fold higher risk of death from necrotizing infections, so higher suspicion should be maintained in this group.\n\nMore than 70% of cases are recorded in people with at least one of these clinical situations: immunosuppression, diabetes, alcoholism/drug abuse/smoking, malignancies, and chronic systemic diseases. For reasons that are unclear, it occasionally occurs in people with an apparently normal general condition.\n\nNecrotizing fasciitis can occur at any part of the body, but it is more commonly seen at the extremities, perineum, and genitals. Only a few of such cases arise from the chest and abdomen. Trauma is the usual cause of the infection such as intravenous drug injection, insulin injection, animals and insect bites, catheter insertion over the skin, or a fistula connecting skin to the internal body organs. Skin infections such as abscess and ulcers can also complicate necrotizing fasciitis. Spreading of infection through blood has been suggested for those with streptococcal pharyngitis. For infection of the perineum and genitals (Fournier gangrene), trauma, surgery, urinary tract infection, stones, and Bartholin gland abscess are the usual causes.\n\nTypes of soft-tissue necrotizing infection can be divided into four classes according to the types of bacteria infecting the soft tissue. This classification system was first described by Giuliano and his colleagues in 1977.\n\nType I infection - This is the most common type of infection which accounts for 70 to 80% of the cases. It is caused by a mixture of bacterial types, usually in abdominal or groin areas. This type of infection is usually caused by various species of Gram-positive cocci,(\"Staphylococcus aureus\", \"Streptococcus pyogenes\", and enterococci), Gram-negative rods, (\"Escherichia coli\", \"Pseudomonas aeruginosa\"), and anaerobes, (\"Bacteroides\" and \"Clostridium\" species). Populations of those affected are typically older with medical comorbidities such as diabetes mellitus, obesity, and immunodeficiency. Usually, trauma is not the cause of such infections. Previous history of abscess infection or gut perforation with bacterial translocation may be elicited. Clostridial infection accounts for 10% of type I infection. \"Clostridium\" species involved are \"Clostridium perfringens\", \"Clostridium septicum\", and \"Clostridium sordellii\", which typically cause gas gangrene (also known as myonecrosis). \"Clostridium perfringens\" produces two deadly toxins: alpha-toxin and theta-toxin. Alpha-toxin causes excessive platelet aggregation which blocks blood vessels and deprives the vital organs of oxygen supply. This creates an acidic, oxygen-deficient environment for the proliferation of bacteria. When alpha-toxin is absorbed by soft tissues, it can inhibit the migration of white blood cells from blood vessels into the soft tissue, thus impairing phagocyte function. The two toxins together can cause destruction of red blood cells in blood vessels, damage to the integrity of the blood vessels, and suppression of heart function.\n\n\"Clostridium sordellii\" can also produce two major toxins: all known virulent strains produce the essential virulence factor lethal toxin (TcsL), and a number also produce haemorrhagic toxin (TcsH). TcsL and TcsH are both members of the large clostridial cytotoxin (LCC) family. The key \"Clostridium septicum\" virulence factor is a pore-forming toxin called alpha-toxin, though it is unrelated to the \"Clostridium perfringens\" alpha-toxin. Myonecrotic infections caused by these clostridial species commonly occur in injecting heroin users. Those with clostridial infections typically have severe pain at the wound site, where the wound typically drains foul-smelling blood mixed with serum (serosanguinous discharge). Shock can progress rapidly after initial injury or infection, and once the state of shock is established, the chance of dying exceeds 50%. Another bacterium associated with similar rapid disease progression is group A streptococcal infection (mostly \"Streptococcus pyogenes\"). Meanwhile, other bacterial infections require two or more days to become symptomatic.\n\nType II infection - This infection accounts for 20 to 30% of the cases, mainly involving the extremities. This mainly involves \"Streptococcus pyogenes\" bacteria or in combination with staphylococcal infections. Both types of bacteria can progress rapidly and manifest as toxic shock syndrome. \"Streptococcus\" species produce M protein, which acts as superantigen, thus stimulating a massive systemic immune response, which is not effective against the bacterial antigen, precipitating shock. Type II infection more commonly affects young, healthy adults with a history of injury.\n\nType III infection - \"Vibrio vulnificus\", a bacterium found in saltwater, is a rare cause of this infection, which occurs through a break in the skin. Disease progression can be as rapid as type II infection without any visible skin changes.\n\nType IV infection - Some authors have described the type IV infection as fungal infection.\n\nEarly diagnosis is difficult, as the disease often looks early on like a simple superficial skin infection. While a number of laboratory and imaging modalities can raise the suspicion for necrotizing fasciitis, none can rule it out. The gold standard for diagnosis is a surgical exploration in a setting of high suspicion. When in doubt, a small incision can be made into the affected tissue, and if a finger easily separates the tissue along the fascial plane, the diagnosis is confirmed and an extensive debridement should be performed.\n\nImaging has a limited role in the diagnosis of necrotizing fasciitis. The time delay in performing imaging is a major concern. Plain radiography may show subcutaneous emphysema (gas in the subcutaneous tissue) which is strongly suggestive of necrotizing changes, but it is not sensitive enough to detect all the cases, because necrotizing skin infections caused by the bacteria other than clostridial infections usually do not show subcutaneous emphysema. If the diagnosis is still in doubt, computed tomography (CT) scans and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) are more sensitive modalities than plain radiography. However, both the CT scan and MRI are not sensitive enough rule out necrotizing changes completely. CT scan may show fascial thickening, edema, subcutaneous gas, and abscess formation. In MRI, when fluid collection with deep fascia involvement occurs, thickening or enhancement with contrast injection, necrotizing fasciitis should be strongly suspected. Meanwhile, ultrasonography can show superficial abscess formation, but is not sensitive enough to diagnose necrotizing fasciitis. CT scan is able to detect about 80% of cases, while MRI may pick up slightly more.\n\nA white blood cell count less than 15,000 cells/mm and serum sodium level greater than 135 mmol/l have a sensitivity of 90% in detecting the necrotizing soft tissue infection. It also has a 99% chance of ruling out necrotizing changes if the values have shown otherwise. Various scoring systems are being developed to determine the likelihood of getting necrotizing fasciitis, but a scoring system developed by Wong and colleagues in 2004 is the most commonly used. It is the laboratory risk indicator for necrotizing fasciitis (LRINEC) score, which can be used to stratify by risk those people having signs of severe cellulitis or abscess to determine the likelihood of necrotizing fasciitis being present. It uses six laboratory values: C-reactive protein, total white blood cell count, hemoglobin, sodium, creatinine, and blood glucose. A score greater than or equal to 6 indicates that necrotizing fasciitis should be seriously considered. The scoring criteria are:\n\nHowever, the scoring system has not been validated. The values would be falsely positive if any other inflammatory conditions are present. Therefore, the values derived from this scoring system should be interpreted with caution. About 10% of patients with necrotizing fasciitis in the original study still had a LRINEC score <6. A validation study showed that patients with a LRINEC score ≥6 have a higher rate of both death and amputation.\n\nNecrotizing fasciitis can be partly prevented by good wound care and handwashing.\n\nSurgical debridement (cutting away affected tissue) is the mainstay of treatment for necrotizing fasciitis. Early medical treatment is often presumptive; thus, antibiotics should be started as soon as this condition is suspected. Tissue cultures (rather than wound swabs) are taken to determine appropriate antibiotic coverage, and antibiotics may be changed in light of results. Besides blood pressure control and hydration, support should be initiated for those with unstable vital signs and low urine output.\n\nAggressive wound debridement should be performed early, usually as soon as the diagnosis of necrotizing soft tissue infection (NSTI) is made. Surgical incisions often extend beyond the areas of induration (the hardened tissue) to remove the damaged blood vessels that are responsible for the induration. However, cellulitic soft tissues are sometimes spared from debridement for later skin coverage of the wound. More than one operation may be used to remove additional necrotic tissue. In some cases when an extremity is affected by a NSTI, amputation may be the surgical treatment of choice. After the wound debridement, adequate dressings should be applied to prevent exposure of bones, tendons, and cartilages so that such structures do not dry out and to promote wound healing.\n\nFor necrotizing infection of the perineal area (Fournier's gangrene), wound debridement and wound care in this area can be difficult because of the excretory products that often render this area dirty and affect the wound-healing process. Therefore, regular dressing changes with a fecal management system can help to keep the wound at the perineal area clean. Sometimes, colostomy may be necessary to divert the excretory products to keep the wound at the perineal area clean.\n\nTraditionally, empiric antibiotics are initiated as soon as the diagnosis of NSTI has been made and then later changed to culture-guided antibiotic therapy. In the case of NSTIs, empiric antibiotics are broad-spectrum, covering gram-positive (including MRSA), gram-negative, and anaerobic bacteria.\n\nWhile studies have compared moxifloxacin (a fluoroquinolone) and amoxicillin-clavulanate (a penicillin) and evaluated appropriate duration of treatment (varying from 7 to 21 days), no definitive conclusions on the efficacy of treatment, ideal duration of treatment, or the adverse effects could be made due to poor-quality evidence.\n\n- Hyperbaric oxygen: While human and animal studies have shown that high oxygen tension in tissues helps to reduce edema, stimulate fibroblast growth, and increase the killing ability of white blood cells, inhibit bacterial toxin release, and increase antibiotic efficacy, no high-quality trials have been shown to support or refute the use of hyperbaric oxygen therapy in patients with NSTIs.\n\n- Intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIG): No clear difference between using IVIG and placebo has been shown in the treatment of NSTIs, and one study showed serious adverse effects with IVIG use, including acute kidney injury, allergic reactions, aseptic meningitis syndrome, haemolytic anaemia, thrombi, and transmissible agents.\n\n- AB103: One study assessed the efficacy of a new type of treatment that affects the immune response, called AB103. The study showed no difference in mortality with use of this therapy, but it is difficult to draw definitive conclusions due to low-quality evidence.\n\n- Supportive therapy: Supportive therapy, often including intravenous hydration, wound care, anticoagulants to prevent thromboembolic events, pain control, et cetera should always be provided to patients when appropriate.\n\nNecrotizing fasciitis affects about 0.4 in every 100,000 people per year in the United States. About 1,000 cases of necrotizing fasciitis cases occur per year in the United States, but the rates have been increasing. This could be due to increasing awareness of this condition, leading to increased reporting, or bacterial virulence or increasing bacterial resistance against antibiotics. In some areas of the world, it is as common as one in every 100,000 people.\n\nHigher rates of necrotizing fasciitis are seen in those with obesity or diabetes, those who are immunocompromised or alcoholic, or have peripheral vascular disease. However, the disease may also occur in young, healthy adults with no underlying illnesses. NSAIDs may increase the rates of necrotizing infections due to the modification of immune response in the body, because NSAIDs inhibit the cycloxygenase -1 and cycloxygenase-2 enzymes which are important in producing thromboxane and prostaglandin E2. Prostaglandin has been responsible for fever, inflammation, and pain. The inhibition of prostangladin E2 production reduces inflammatory response and leukocyte adhesion, and thus reduces immune response against bacterial invasion, giving rise to soft-tissue infection.\n\nIn the fifth century BC, Hippocrates described necrotizing soft tissue infection as a disease which was the complication of streptococcal infection where those affected would have \"erysipelas all over the body while the cause was only a trivial accident. Bones, flesh, and sinew (cord, tendon, or nerve) would fall off from the body and there were many deaths\". The first English description for necrotizing soft-tissue infection was by British surgeon Leonard Gillespie and British physicians Gilbert Blaine and Thomas Trotter in the 18th century. At that time, necrotizing soft-tissue infection was known as phagedaenic (gnaw - biting or chewing which gradually make a hole or destroying it) ulcer, phagedena gangrenous, gangrenous ulcer, malignant ulcer, putrid ulcer, or hospital gangrene. Later, \"hospital gangrene\" became more commonly used. In 1871, Confederate States Army surgeon Joseph Jones reported 2,642 cases of hospital gangrene with a mortality rate of 46%. In 1883, Dr Jean-Alfred Fournier described the necrotizing infection of the perineum and scrotum which termed as Fournier gangrene today. The term \"necrotizing fasciitis\" was first coined by Wilson in 1952. Its definition has become broader, to include not only infection of fascia, but also other soft-tissue infection.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56629314", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56629314", "title": "Neil Swallow", "text": "Neil Swallow\n\nJames Neil Swallow (1931 – 29 April 2010) was a pioneering British dentist who developed treatments for adults and children with mental and physical disabilities. He co-authored a standard textbook on children's dentistry. In 1964, Swallow became senior lecturer in children's dentistry at the Cardiff Dental School. This was followed in 1975 by his appointment as professor of paediatric dentistry at the University of Amsterdam, and then as professor of restorative dentistry at Belfast Dental School in 1978.\n\nSwallow was born in Taunton, England, in 1931. He obtained his Bachelor of Dental Surgery degree from the London Hospital in 1955.\n\nSwallow founded clinics for children with disabilities at Dr Barnardo's Home and the London Hospital, during a period in which there was little interest in the oral health of disabled people. He frequently made night calls to construct feeding plates for new-born children with cleft palates.\n\nAlong with Geoffrey Slack and Phil Holloway, he authored \"Child Dental Health\" (1969) which for many years was a standard textbook on children's dentistry and well-remembered by dental students from his time. In addition, in the late 1950s and early 1960s, he would visit the Bobaths at their centre in London for children with cerebral palsy. In 1964, Swallow was awarded the A.A.E. Newth Prize by the Society of Medical Officers of Health.\n\nHe moved to Cardiff in 1964, where he had been appointed as the first senior lecturer in children's dentistry at the then new Cardiff Dental School. He set up a course in paediatric dentistry and developed a dental service for children and adults with a disability. His MD thesis on the oral health of people with disability was published in 1967. Swallow carried on treating children and adults with disabilities when he became professor of paediatric dentistry at the University of Amsterdam in 1975. In 1978, he was appointed professor of restorative dentistry at the Belfast Dental School, where he remained until 1983. When he returned from Belfast, he started a dental practice at home with his second wife Barbara.\n\nSwallow died on 29 April 2010. He received obituaries in the \"Journal of Disability and Oral Health\" and the \"British Dental Journal\". His wife, Barbara, later talked about his work in a witness seminar.\n\n"}
{"id": "13649448", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13649448", "title": "Obesogen", "text": "Obesogen\n\nObesogens are foreign chemical compounds that disrupt normal development and balance of lipid metabolism, which in some cases, can lead to obesity. Obesogens may be functionally defined as chemicals that inappropriately alter lipid homeostasis and fat storage, change metabolic setpoints, disrupt energy balance or modify the regulation of appetite and satiety to promote fat accumulation and obesity.\n\nThere are many different proposed mechanisms through which obesogens can interfere with the body's adipose tissue biology. These mechanisms include alterations in the action of metabolic sensors; dysregulation of sex steroid synthesis, action or breakdown; changes in the central integration of energy balance including the regulation of appetite and satiety; and reprogramming of metabolic setpoints. Some of these proposed pathways include inappropriate modulation of nuclear receptor function which therefore allows the compounds to be classified as endocrine disrupting chemicals that act to mimic hormones in the body, altering the normal homeostasis maintained by the endocrine system.\n\nObesogens have been detected in the body both as a result of intentional administration of obesogenic chemicals in the form of pharmaceutical drugs such as diethylstilbestrol, selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor, and thiazolidinedione and as a result of unintentional exposure to environmental obesogens such as tributyltin, bisphenol A, diethylhexylphthalate, and perfluorooctanoate.\n\nThe term obesogen was coined in 2006 by Felix Grün and Bruce Blumberg of the University of California, Irvine. The topic of this proposed class of chemical compounds and how to counteract their effects is explored at length in the book \"The New American Diet\". Paula Baillie-Hamilton, a naturopath in the UK, hypothesized that obesogens make it difficult to lose weight in the \"Journal of Alternative and Complementary Medicine\" in 2002.\n\nThere are many ways in which obesogenic drugs and chemicals can disrupt the body's adipose tissue biology. The three main mechanisms of action include\n\nObesogenic drugs and chemicals have been shown to target transcription regulators found in gene networks that function to control intracellular lipid homeostasis and proliferation and differentiation on adipocytes. The major group of regulators that is targeted is a group of nuclear hormone receptors known as peroxisome proliferator activated receptors (PPARα, δ, and γ). These hormone receptors sense a variety of metabolic ligands including lipophilic hormones, dietary fatty acids and their metabolites, and, depending on the varying levels of these ligands, control transcription of genes involved in balancing the changes in lipid balance in the body. To become active and properly function as metabolic sensors and transcription regulators, the PPAR receptors must heterodimerize with another receptor known as the 9-cis retinoic acid receptor (RXR). The RXR receptor itself is the second major target of obesogens next to the PPAR receptors.\n\nThe PPARα receptor, when complexed with RXR and activated by the binding of a lipid, promotes peroxisome proliferation leading to increased fatty acid β-oxidation. Substances, such a xenobiotics that target and act as agonists of PPARα, typically act to reduce overall serum concentrations of lipids. In contrast, the PPARγ receptor, when complexed with RXR and activated by the binding of fatty acids or their derivatives, promotes lipid biosynthesis and storage of lipids is favored over fatty acid oxidation. In addition, activation promotes differentiation of preadipocytes and the conversion of mesenchymal progenitor cells to preadipocytes in adipose tissues. Substances that target and act as agonists of PPARγ/RXR complex typically act to increase overall serum concentrations of lipids.\n\nObesogens that target the PPARγ/RXR complex mimic the metabolic ligands and activate the receptor leading to upregulation of lipid accumulation which explains their obesogenic effects. However, in the case of obesogens that target the PPARα/RXR complex, which when stimulated reduces adipose mass and body weight, there are a few explanations as to how they promote obesity.\n\nThe ligand binding pockets of PPARs are very large and unspecified, allowing for different isoforms of the receptor (PPARα, δ, and γ) to be activated by the same agonist ligands or their metabolites. In addition, fatty acid oxidation stimulated by PPARα requires continuous stimulation while only a single activation event of PPARγ is required to permanently increase adipocyte differentiation and number. Therefore, it may be the case that metabolites of PPARα targeting obesogens are also activating PPARγ, providing the single activation event needed to potentially lead to a pro-adipogenic response.\n\nA second explanation points to specific PPARα targeters that have been shown to additionally cause abnormal transcriptional regulation of testicular steroidogenesis when introduced during fetal development. This abnormal regulation leads to a decreased level of androgen in the body which, itself, is obesogenic.\n\nFinally, if PPARα activation occurs during critical periods of development, the resulting decrease in lipid concentration in the developing fetus is recognized by the fetal brain as undernourishment. In this case, the developing brain makes what will become permanent changes to the body's metabolic control, leading to long-term upregulation of lipid storage and maintenance.\n\nSex steroids normally play a significant role in lipid balance in the body. Aided by other peptide hormones such as growth hormone, they act against the lipid accumulation mediated by insulin and cortisol by mobilizing lipid stores that are present. Exposure to obesogens often leads to a deficiency or change in the ratio between androgen and estrogen sex steroid levels, which modifies this method of lipid balance resulting in lowered growth hormone secretion, hypocortisolemia (low levels of circulating cortisol), and increased resistance to insulin effects.\n\nThis alteration in sex steroid levels due to obesogens can vary enormously according to both the sex of the exposed individual as well as the timing of the exposure. If the chemicals are introduced at critical windows of development, the vulnerability of an individual to their effects is much higher than if exposure occurs later in adulthood. It has been shown that obesogenic effects are apparent in female mice exposed to both phytoestrogens and DES during their neonatal periods of development, as they, though born with a lower birth weight, almost always developed obesity, high leptin levels, and altered glucose response pathways. Both phytoestrogen and DES exposed male mice did not develop obesity and, rather, showed decreased body weights with increased exposure confirming the role of gender differences in exposure response. Further studies have shown positive correlations for serum BPA levels with obese females in the human population, along with other xenoestrogen compounds suggesting the parallel roles that these effects may be having on humans.\n\nWhile hormone receptors tend to be the most obvious candidates for targets of obesogens, central mechanisms that balance and regulate the body's nutritional changes on a day-to-day basis as a whole cannot be overlooked. The HPA axis (hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal) is involved in controlling appetite and energy homeostasis circuits which are mediated by a large number of monoaminoergic, peptidergic (use of hormones as neurotransmitters), and endocannabinoid signals that come from the digestive tract, adipose tissues, and from within the brain. It is these types of signals that provide a likely target for obesogens that have shown to have weight altering effects:\n\nNeurological disorders may enhance the susceptibility to develop the metabolic syndrome that includes obesity. Many neuropharmaceuticals used to alter behavioral pathways in patients with neurological disorders have shown to have metabolic altering side-effects leading to obesogenic phenotypes as well. These findings give evidence to conclude that an increase in lipid accumulation can result from the targeting of neurotransmitter receptors by foreign chemicals. (\"See also:\" section \"Central integration of energy balance\".)\n\nSeveral peptidergic hormone pathways controlling appetite and energy balance —such as those involving ghrelin, neuropeptide Y, and agouti-related peptide — are particularly sensitive to changes in nuclear receptor signaling pathways and can therefore be easily altered by the introduction of endocrine disruptors. Such an alteration can lead to induced feelings of hunger and decreased feelings of fullness causing an increase in food intake and inability to feel satisfied, both characteristic of obesity.\n\nSome xenoestrogens such as BPA, nonylphenol, and DEHP have all shown to act is this way, altering NPY expression and significantly shifting the feeding behaviors of exposed mice. In addition, organotins such as trimethyltin (TMT) triethyltin (TET), and tributyltin (TBT) compounds can exert their effects through similar pathways. TBT can locally disrupt aromatase regulation in the hypothalamus causing the responses of the HPA axis to hormones to become abnormal. TMT works in a similar but unique way, inducing NPY and NPY2 receptor expression initially which later is counteracted by neuronal degeneration in lesions causing decrease in signaling ability.\n\nWhile an increase in food intake is often the case after exposure, weight gain involves the body's maintenance of its metabolic setpoint as well. Given this information, it is particularly important to note that exposure during development and initial programming of these setpoints can be extremely significant throughout the remainder of life.\n\nA wide range of environmental organotins that mimic petidergic hormones in the HPA axis as mentioned before, additionally mimic lipid activators of the cannabinoid system and inhibit AMPK activity. Endocannaboid levels are high in those suffering from obesity due to hyperactivity of cannaboid signalling pathways. It is these high levels that have been found to be closely associated with increased fat stores linking the lipid activator mimics to the actual disease.\n\nRegions in the hypothalamus control the responses that establish an individuals metabolic setpoint and metabolic efficiency. These responses are adaptive in that they vary according to the individual's needs, always working to restore the metabolic setpoint through the increase or decrease of metabolic functions depending on varying energy needs. Since it is adapted, it is expected that it would be able to achieve equilibrium if the lipid balance was altered by hormones via the mechanisms mentioned above. However, since obesogenic phenotypes persist, it can be concluded that adaptive response components of the hypothalamus may be a target of obesogens as well.\n\nA person's body composition is very much predetermined before birth and changes rarely occur in adulthood. Adipocyte numbers increase during development and come to a plateau over time. After the plateau adipocytes become restricted to mostly hypertrophic growth and don't seem to change much in terms of cell number. This is demonstrated by the difficulty in altering somatotypes or more simply by the difficulty that goes along with trying to lose weight past a certain point.\n\nA particular study on PBDEs, a commonly used chemical in flame retardants, made its role in altering the functions of the thyroid hormone axis apparent. This finding leads to increased concern as neonatal thyroid status plays a large role in the integration of maternal environmental signals during development in the womb that is used for long-term body weight programming.\n\nObesogens detection in the body and resulting obesogenic effects can result as side effects from intentional administration of obesogenic chemicals in the form of pharmaceutical drugs. These pharmaceutical obesogens can show their effects through a variety of targets.\n\nThiazolidinediones (TZD), rosiglitazone, and pioglitazone are all used to treat diabetes. These drugs act as agonists of the PPAR-γ receptor leading to insulin sensitizing effects that can improve glycemic control and serum triglyceride levels. Despite the positive effects these chemicals can have in treating diabetes patients, administration also lead to unwanted PPAR-γ mediated side effects such as peripheral edema which can be followed by persistent weight gain if the drug is used over a long period of time. These side effects are particularly prominent in diabetes 2 patients, a disease that tends to result from an overabundance of adipose tissue.\n\nDES is a synthetic estrogen that was once prescribed to women to decrease the risk of miscarriage until it was found to be causing abnormalities in exposed offspring. This same chemical has been shown to cause weight gain in female mice when exposed during neonatal development. While exposure didn't lead to an abnormal birth weight, significant weight gain occurred much later in adulthood.\n\nSSRI (e.g. paroxetine), tricyclic antidepressants (e.g. amitriptyline), tetracyclic antidepressants (e.g. mirtazapine) and atypical antipsychotics (e.g. clozapine) are all neuropharmaceuticals that target neurotransmitter receptors that are involved with brain circuits that regulate behavior. Often the function of these receptors overlaps with metabolism regulation, such as that of the H1 receptor which when activated decreases AMPK activity. As a result, the administration of these drugs can have side effects including increased lipid accumulation that can result in obesity.\n\nThe mechanisms behind SSRI, tricyclic antidepressants, and atypical antipsychotics function allow them all to have potential roles in the alteration of metabolic setpoints. TZD, in particular has been linked to regulatory function in the HPT axis, however, no conclusive evidence has been determined thus far and further research is required to confirm these hypotheses.\n\nWhile obesogens can be introduced to the body intentionally via administration of obesogenic pharmaceuticals, exposure can also occur through chemical exposure to obesogens found in the environment such as organotins and xenobiotics.\n\nParticular members of the organotin class of persistent organic pollutants (POPs), namely tributyltin (TBT) and triphenyltin (TPT) are highly selective and act as very potent agonists of both the retinoid X receptors (RXR α,β, and γ) and PPARγ. This ability to target both receptors at the same time, is more effective than single receptor activation, as adopogenic signaling can be mediated through both components of the heterodimer complex. This highly effective activation mechanism can pose detrimental, long-term adipogenic effects especially if exposure occurs during development and early life.\n\nOrganotins (tin-based chemicals), used in marine anti-fouling paints, wood catalysts, plasticizers, slimicides, in industrial water systems, and fungicides on food have recently been linked to obesogenic properties when introduced in the body. Human exposure to these major environmental sources most commonly occurs through ingestion of contaminated seafood, agricultural products, and drinking water as well as from exposure to leaching from plastics.\n\nAlthough studies that have directly measured organotin levels in human tissue and blood are limited, it has been determined that vulnerability of a portion of the general population to organotin exposure at levels high enough to activate RXRs and PPARγ receptors is very probable. The high usage of organotins in both plastics and agricultural maintenance as well as the high affinity of the chemicals further confirms this conclusion.\n\nLiver samples from the late 1990s in Europe and Asia contained on average 6 and 84 ng/g wet wt respectively for total organotin levels, while later studies found levels of total organotins in US blood samples averaged around 21 ng/mL with TBT comprising around 8 ng/mL (~ 27 nM). Even more recent analyses of European blood samples found the predominant species to be TPT rather than TBT at 0.09 and 0.67 ng/mL (~0.5-2 nM). Only occasional trace amounts of TBT were found. These results indicate that organtin exposure to humans, while found to be present among many different populations, can vary in terms of type of organatin and level of exposure from region to region.\n\nOther common xenobiotics found in the environment have been shown to have PPAR activity, posing even further threats to dysregulated metabolic balance. BPA from polycarbonate plastics, phthalate plasticizers used to soften PVC plastics, and various perfluoroalkyll compounds (PFCs) that are widely used surfactants and surface repellents in consumer products are all potentially obesogenic when introduced in the body. Phthalates and PFCs in particular have been found to function as agonists for one or more of the PPARs Additionally, metabolites of DHEP such as MEHP also activate PPARγ leading to a proadipogenic response.\n\nAlthough research on endocrine disruptors or \"obesogens\" is still emerging, the public health implications so far have mainly surrounded obesity, diabetes, and cardiovascular disease.\n\nObesity has become a global epidemic, increasing for all population groups. From 1980 to 2008, the rates of obesity have doubled for adults and tripled for children. In the U.S. alone, it has been estimated that almost 100 million individuals in are obese Traditional thinking suggested that diet and exercise alone were the main contributors to obesity; however, current experimental evidence shows that obesogens might be part of the cause.\n\nThe chronic burden of obesity doesn't stop with weight gain. It can also lead to potentially debilitating chronic diseases such as diabetes, and certain environmental exposures, or obesogens, have been directly linked to Type II diabetes mellitus (T2DM). An estimated 25.8 million people, or 8.3% of the population in the US, have diabetes, and the crude prevalence of diagnosed diabetes increased by 176%, from 1980 through 2010. The disease and economic burden of diabetes, which is the seventh leading cause of death in the United States costing approximately $174 billion annually, is being addressed by organizations such as Healthy People 2020 which has diabetes listed as one of their 42 objectives. However, diabetes is a major obstacle to overcome especially when obesogens might be the uncontrolled, unsuspected cause.\n\nObesogens can be found everywhere, from water bottles to microwaveable popcorn, and from nonstick pans to shower curtains. People interact with them on a daily basis, both intentionally and unintentionally, at work, school and home. They are an unnecessary and mostly preventable potential hazard to health, which can have a large impact on how individuals gain and lose weight.\n\nBisphenol-A (BPA) is an industrial chemical and organic compound that has been used in the production of plastics and resins for over a half-century. It is used in products such as toys, medical devices, plastic food and beverage containers, shower curtains, dental sealants and compounds, and register receipts. BPA has been shown to seep into food sources from containers or into the body just by handling products made from it. Certain researchers suggest that BPA actually decreases the fat cell count in the body, but at the same time increasing the size of the ones remaining; therefore, no difference in weight is shown, and an individual is even likely to gain more.\n\nHigh-fructose corn syrup (HFCS) is found in many food products on grocery store shelves: by 2004, for example, it accounted for 40% of caloric sweeteners added to foods and beverages sold in the United States, and was the only caloric sweetener used in soft drinks. It is used as a food and drink sweetener and is an obesogen. Acting on insulin and leptin in the body, HFCS potentially increases appetite and fat production.\n\nNicotine is the chemical found in tobacco products and certain insecticides. As an obesogen, nicotine mostly acts on prenatal development after maternal smoking occurs. A strong association has been made between maternal smoking and childhood overweight/obesity, with nicotine as the single causal agent.\n\nArsenic is a metalloid (\"i.e.\", an element with some metallic properties) found in and on most naturally occurring substances on Earth. It can be found in the soil, ground water, air, and in small concentrations in food. Arsenic has many applications such as in the production of insecticides, herbicides, pesticides and electronic devices. The development of diabetes has been linked to arsenic exposure from drinking water and occupational contact.\n\nPesticides are substances used to prevent, destroy, repel or mitigate pests, and they have been used throughout all of recorded history. Some pesticides persist for short periods of time and some for long periods of time which are considered persistent organic pollutants (POPs). Several cross-sectional studies have shown pesticides as obesogens, linking them to obesity, diabetes and other morbidities.\n\nPharmaceutical drugs are also potentially obesogens. From 2005-2008, 11% of Americans aged 12 and over took antidepressant medications. Certain antidepressants, known as selectively serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), are potentially adding to the almost 100 million obese individuals in the U.S. A key function of SSRI antidepressants is to regulate serotonin reuptake transporter (SERT) which can affect food intake and lipid accumulation leading to obesity.\n\nOrganotins such as tributyltin (TBT) and triphenyltin (TPT) are endocrine disruptors that have been shown to increase triglyceride storage in adipocytes. Although they have been widely used in the marine industry since the 1960s, other common sources of human exposure include contaminated seafood and shellfish, fungicides on crops and as antifungal agents used in wood treatments, industrial water systems and textiles. Organotins are also being used in the manufacture of PVC plastics and have been identified in drinking water and food supplies.\nPerfluorooctanoic acid (PFOA) is a surfactant used for reduction of friction, and it is also used in nonstick cookware. PFOA has been detected in the blood of more than 98% of the general US population. It is a potential endocrine disruptor. Animal studies have shown that prenatal exposure to PFOA is linked to obesity when reaching adulthood.\n\nMost of the environmental obesogens currently identified are either classified into the category of chemical mimics of metabolic hormones throughout the body or of neurotransmitters within the brain. Because they fall into these two categories, extensive opportunities for complex interactions and varied sites of action as well as multiple molecular targets are open for consideration. Changing dose ranges tend to result in varying phenotypes and timing of exposure, gender, and gender predisposition introduce even more levels of complexity in how these substances effect the human body.\n\nBecause the mechanisms behind the different effects of obesogens are so complex and not well understood, the extent to which they play in the current obesity epidemic may be greater than once thought. Epigenetic changes due to obesogen exposure must also be considered as a possibility, as they open up the potential for misregulated metabolic functions to be passed on from generation to generation. Epigenetic processes via hypermethylation of regulatory regions could lead to overexpression of different proteins, and therefore, amplification of acquired environmental effects. Research will be required in order to gain a better understanding of the mechanism of action these chemicals are involved in before the extent of the risk of exposure can be determined and methods of prevention and removal from the environment can be established.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37037828", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37037828", "title": "Onshino Tabako", "text": "Onshino Tabako\n\nThe exact origin of Onshino Tabako with the crest of the Imperial House of Japan, with the 16 petals of the chrysanthemum, is unknown; what is known that Onshino Tabako had been in existence since the Meiji era. The Empress to the Emperor Meiji presented wounded soldiers at the 1877 Satsuma Rebellion with Onshino Tabako as gifts, according to formal records. During the Sino-Japanese War (1894-1895), the cigarettes were produced by Iwaya Shokai Company.\n\nThe formal Onshino Tabako system was started in 1933. During the war years it was included in the supplies of the army and navy, each order prepared by hand. The special cigarettes were even mentioned in a war song called \"Sorano Yūshi\" (\"Brave Men of the Skies\") in 1939 which portrayed the Battles of Khalkhin Gol. On the packaging of Onshino Tabako was printed a character: 賜, meaning \"gift from a noble man,\" and the chrysanthemum crest was on every cigarette. The taste of Onshino Tabako was reportedly the same as other cigarettes. According to some men who had tasted it, it was bitter, as opposed to sweet. It was not sold on the market, and was exclusively given to decorated persons, attendants at Imperial parties, visitors to and volunteers of Imperial House of Japan, and security men of the Imperial Household. \n\nOn June 25, 1959, it was presented to every member of the Tokyo Giants and Osaka Tigers, professional baseball teams which played before Hirohito. Because of recent health finds that confirm that tobacco smoking is dangerous to one's health, Onshino Tabako was discontinued at the end of 2006. In its place, Onshino Kompeitō, a candy, is often presented. According to the records of the National Diet, it was the same as Asahi Cigarettes (30 yen per 20 cigarettes; in 2010, it was 20 yen.). There had been another kind of tobacco for the guests of the Imperial Household Agency and Imperial relatives, and it had the crest of chrysanthemum with 14 petals, as opposed to formal 16.\n\n\n\nWhen they were first produced, the characters \"Onshi / 恩賜\" were printed in gold on the package, and it was formally called \"Special Product No. 1.\" When the war situation grew darker, gold characters were replace with black one, and then trimmed to one character, 賜. This package remained thus during the postwar years.\nIn 1982, packages were made for ten, 20, 50 and 100 cigarettes. The tobacco for the Imperial Household Agency was called \"Special Tobacco No. 2\" and contained the chrysanthemum crest on a white background. Since 1968, the 14 petal chrysanthemum package, \"Special Tobacco No. 3\" was produced for the relatives of the emperor.\n\nBetween 1883 and 1904, Yanagiya at Nipponbashi produced shredded tobacco and since 1894, cigarettes. In 1894, the Iwaya Shokai was given permission to produce the Onshino Tabako which were given out to soldiers \nparticipating in the Sino-Japanese War. In 1904, its production went to the Tobacco Monopoly Agency. The production line of Iwaya Shokai went to the Tokyo First Tobacco Production Place, and in the same year, Imperial tobacco began to be produced not only exclusively for noblemen, such as Emperor Taisho and his relatives, but also for its original purposes. Imperial tobacco was made from special leaves of tobacco, while the Special tobacco for noblemen and gifts was made from the finest Fuji leaf or 不二; these were also produced with the utmost care manually. Emperor Taisho was a smoker and smoked his exclusively produced cigarettes, while Hirohito did not; the production of Imperial tobacco, however, continued. The production of special tobacco for the relatives of the Emperor Hirohito was discontinued by the order of the General Headquarters of Japan of the allied forces in 1945. However, Onshino Tobako as gifts continued to be produced.\n\nAll Onshino Tabako were produced in several factories in the Tokyo Prefecture. Before 1945, no other persons were permitted to enter the production room, while workers were fastidiously checked for health. In 1973, six or seven veteran workers produced it, making all the tobacco and packaging it by hand.\n\nDuring the Pacific War, the yearly production amounted to 1 to 2 million cigarettes, and between 1945 and 1965, less than 100,000 cigarettes. Since 1968, cigarettes with filter tips began to be produced, about 300,000 cigarettes yearly.\n\nNot only cigarettes, but also cigars were produced which had a decorated ring chrysanthemum crest, with 25 to each small wooden box. The leaves were produced in Sumatra and Havana. The production of cigars started in 1939, while the exclusive cigars for Emperor Taisho started earlier in 1917. In 1945, 4,000 cigars were produced. This was peak production. Between 1945 and 1982, an average of 2,500 cigars were produced.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "192184", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=192184", "title": "Pica (disorder)", "text": "Pica (disorder)\n\nPica is a psychological disorder characterized by an appetite for substances that are largely non-nutritive, such as ice (pagophagia); hair (trichophagia); paper (xylophagia); drywall or paint; metal (metallophagia); stones (lithophagia) or soil (geophagia); glass (hyalophagia); feces (coprophagia); and chalk. \n\nAccording to DSM-IV (Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, 4th Edition) criteria, for these actions to be considered pica, they must persist for more than one month at an age where eating such objects is considered developmentally inappropriate, not part of culturally sanctioned practice and sufficiently severe to warrant clinical attention. It can lead to intoxication in children, which can result in an impairment of both physical and mental development. In addition, it can also lead to surgical emergencies due to an intestinal obstruction as well as more subtle symptoms such as nutritional deficiencies and parasitosis. Pica has been linked to other mental and emotional disorders. Stressors such as emotional trauma, maternal deprivation, family issues, parental neglect, pregnancy, and a disorganized family structure are strongly linked to pica as a form of comfort.\n\nPica is most commonly seen in pregnant women, small children, and those with developmental disabilities such as autism. Children eating painted plaster containing lead may suffer brain damage from lead poisoning. There is a similar risk from eating soil near roads that existed before tetraethyllead in petrol was phased out (in some countries) or before people stopped using contaminated oil (containing toxic PCBs or dioxin) to settle dust. In addition to poisoning, there is also a much greater risk of gastro-intestinal obstruction or tearing in the stomach. Another risk of eating soil is the ingestion of animal feces and accompanying parasites. Pica can also be found in other animals and is commonly found in dogs and cats.\n\nPica is the consumption of substances with no significant nutritional value such as soil, soap or ice. Subtypes are characterized by the substance eaten:\n\nThis pattern of eating should last at least one month to fit the diagnosis of pica.\n\nComplications may occur due to the substance consumed. For example, lead poisoning may result from the ingestion of paint or paint-soaked plaster, hairballs may cause intestinal obstruction and \"Toxoplasma\" or \"Toxocara\" infections may follow ingestion of feces or dirt.\n\nAccording to the DSM 5, mineral deficiencies are occasionally associated with pica; however, biological abnormalities are rarely found in individuals with pica. People practicing forms of pica, such as geophagy, pagophagy and amylophagy, are more likely anemic, have low hemoglobin concentration in their blood, lower levels of red blood cells (hematocrit), or have lower plasma zinc levels. Specifically, practicing geophagy is more likely to be associated with anemia or low hemoglobin. Practicing pagophagy and amylophagy were more highly associated with anemia. Additionally, being a child or pregnant woman practicing pica was associated with higher chance of being anemic or having low hemoglobin relative to the general population. More recently, cases of pica have been tied to the obsessive–compulsive spectrum, and there is a move to consider OCD in the cause of pica. However, pica is currently recognized as a mental disorder by the widely used \"Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders\" (DSM-IV). Sensory, physiological, cultural and psychosocial perspectives have also been used by some to explain the causation of pica. It has been proposed that mental-health conditions, such as obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) and schizophrenia, can sometimes cause pica.\n\nHowever, pica can also be a cultural practice not associated with a deficiency or disorder. Ingestion of kaolin (white clay) among African-American women in the US state of Georgia shows the practice there to be a DSM-IV \"culture-bound syndrome\" and \"not selectively associated with other psychopathology\". Similar kaolin ingestion is also widespread in parts of Africa. Such practices may stem from health benefits such as the ability of clay to absorb plant toxins and protect against toxic alkaloids and tannic acids.\n\nThere is no single test that confirms pica. However, because pica can occur in people who have lower than normal nutrient levels and poor nutrition (malnutrition), the health care provider should test blood levels of iron and zinc.\nHemoglobin can also be checked to test for anemia. Lead levels should always be checked in children who may have eaten paint or objects covered in lead-paint dust. The health care provider should test for infection if the person has been eating contaminated soil or animal waste.\n\nThe Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, 5th edition, posits four criteria that must be met for a person to be diagnosed with pica:\n\n\nIn individuals with autism, schizophrenia, and certain physical disorders (such as Kleine-Levin syndrome), nonnutritive substances may be eaten. In such instances, pica should not be noted as an additional diagnosis.\n\nTreatment for pica may vary by patient and suspected cause (e.g., child, developmentally disabled, pregnant or psychogenic) and may emphasize psychosocial, environmental and family-guidance approaches, (iron deficiency) may be treatable though iron supplement through dietary changes. An initial approach often involves screening for and, if necessary, treating any mineral deficiencies or other comorbid conditions. For pica that appears to be of psychogenic cause, therapy and medication such as SSRIs have been used successfully. However, previous reports have cautioned against the use of medication until all non-psychogenic causes have been ruled out.\n\nLooking back at the different causes of pica related to assessment, the clinician will try to develop a treatment. First, there is pica as a result of social attention. A strategy might be used of ignoring the person’s behavior or giving them the least possible attention. If their pica is a result of obtaining a favorite item, a strategy may be used where the person is able to receive the item or activity without eating inedible items. The individual’s communication skills should increase so that they can relate what they want to another person without engaging in this behavior. If pica is a way for a person to escape an activity or situation, the reason why the person wants to escape the activity should be examined and the person should be moved to a new situation. If pica is motivated by sensory feedback, an alternative method of feeling that sensation should be provided. Other non-medication techniques might include other ways for oral stimulation such as gum. Foods such as popcorn have also been found helpful. These things can be placed in a “Pica Box” that should be easily accessible to the individual when they feel like engaging in pica.\n\nBehavior-based treatment options can be useful for developmentally disabled and mentally ill individuals with pica. Behavioral treatments for pica have been shown to reduce pica severity by 80% in people with intellectual disabilities. These may involve using positive reinforcement normal behavior. Many use aversion therapy, where the patient learns through positive reinforcement which foods are good and which ones they should not eat. Often treatment is similar to the treatment of obsessive compulsive or addictive disorders (such as exposure therapy). In some cases treatment is as simple as addressing the fact they have this disorder and why they may have it. A recent study classified nine such classes of behavioral intervention: Success with treatment is generally high and generally fades with age, but it varies depending on the cause of the disorder. Developmental causes tend to have a lower success rate.\n\nTreatment techniques include:\n\nThe prevalence of pica is difficult to establish because of differences in definition and the reluctance of patients to admit to abnormal cravings and ingestion, thus leading to the prevalence recordings of pica among at-risk groups being in the range of 8% and 65% depending on the study. Based on compiled self-report and interview data of pregnant and postpartum women, Pica is most prevalent geographically in Africa, with an estimated prevalence of 44.8%, followed by North and South America (23.0%) and Eurasia (17.5%). Factors associated with Pica in this population were determined to be anemia and low levels of education, both of which are associated with low socioeconomic backgrounds. Two studies of adults with intellectual disability living in institutions found that 21.8% and 25.8% of these groups suffered from pica.\n\nPrevalence rates for children are unknown. Young children commonly place non-nutritious material into the mouth. This activity occurs in 75% of 12-month-old infants, and 15% of two-to-three-year-old children.\n\nIn institutionalized children with mental retardation, pica occurs in 10–33%.\n\nThe condition currently known as Pica was first described by Hippocrates. Prior to the elimination of the category of “feeding disorders in infancy and early childhood”, which is where pica was classified, from the DSM 5, pica was primarily diagnosed in children. However, since the removal of the category, psychiatrists have started to diagnose pica in people of all ages.\n\nThe term pica originates in the Latin word for \"magpie\" (Picave), a bird that is famed for its unusual eating behaviors, where it is known to eat almost anything. In 13th-century Latin work, pica was referenced by the Greeks and Romans; however, it was not addressed in medical texts until 1563.\n\nIn the southern United States in the 1800s, geophagia was a common practice among the slave population. Geophagia is a form of pica in which the person consumes earthly substances such as clay, and is particularly prevalent to augment a mineral-deficient diet. Noteworthy is the fact that Kaolin was consumed by west Africans enslaved in the South-eastern United States, particularly the Georgia belt, due to the anti-diarrheal qualities in the treatment of dysentery and other abdominal ailments.  The practice of consuming Kaolin rocks was thereafter studied scientifically, the results of which led to the subsequent pharmaceutical commercialization of Kaolinite, the clay mineral contained in Kaolin. Kaolinite became the active ingredient in drugs like Kaopectate and Pepto-Bismol, although the formulations have since found additional active ingredients to replace Kaolinite. \n\nResearch on eating disorders from the 16th century to the 20th century suggests that during that time in history, pica was regarded more as a symptom of other disorders rather than its own specific disorder. Even today, what could be classified as pica behavior is a normative practice in some cultures as part of their beliefs, healing methods, or religious ceremonies.\n\nUnlike in humans, pica in dogs or cats may be a sign of immune-mediated hemolytic anemia, especially when it involves eating substances such as tile grout, concrete dust, and sand. Dogs exhibiting this form of pica should be tested for anemia with a CBC or at least hematocrit levels. Although several theories have been proposed by experts for causes of pica in animals, there is insufficient evidence to prove or disprove any of them.\n"}
{"id": "56160003", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56160003", "title": "Pseudoramibacter", "text": "Pseudoramibacter\n\nPseudoramibacter is a Gram-positive, strictly anaerobic, non-spore-forming and non-motile bacterial genus from the family of Eubacteriaceae with one known species (\"Pseudoramibacter alactolyticus\"). \"Pseudoramibacter\" bacteria occur in birds. \"Pseudoramibacter alactolyticus\" is associated with endodontic infections.\n\n"}
{"id": "23467842", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23467842", "title": "Sharp Water", "text": "Sharp Water\n\nSharp Water is a water treatment company in Salisbury, Maryland. The company serves the entire Delmarva Peninsula and specializes in not only water treatment, but drinking water sales also. The company sells Ecowater products.\n"}
{"id": "1493168", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1493168", "title": "SlimFast", "text": "SlimFast\n\nSlimFast is a U.S.company headquartered in Palm Beach Gardens, Florida that markets an eponymous brand of shakes, bars, snacks, packaged meals, and other dietary supplement foods sold in the U.S., Canada, France, Germany, Iceland, Ireland, Latin America, and the U.K. SlimFast promotes diets and weight loss plans featuring its food products.\n\nThere is a lack of high quality evidence on the effectiveness of the diet, although it appears to function no better than behavioral counseling.\n\nSlimFast was started in 1977 as a product line of the Thompson Medical Company, founded in the 1940s by S. Daniel Abraham. Thompson Medical also sold the controversial weight loss dietary supplement Dexatrim. In 1987, Abraham took the brand private, and it was acquired by Unilever in 2000. In 2014, Unilever sold SlimFast to Kainos Capital. After the sale, KSF Acquisition invested with Kainos Capital in order to take responsibility for the SlimFast brand in the UK, Ireland and Germany.\n\nIn 2014, Kainos Capital acquired SlimFast from Unilever and appointed new CEO Chris Tisi.\n\nSlimFast's product lines span three distinctive eras: those of the original product line (shakes only), the low-carb product line introduced in response to the low-carb diet craze initiated by the Atkins and South Beach Diets, and the simplified \"3-2-1\" product line introduced in late 2009.\n\nSlimFast was originally just a diet shake product line. It consisted of chocolate, strawberry, and vanilla shakes meant to replace breakfast and lunch. The company suggested customers eat a low-calorie dinner. Usually, dieters would pick a low-calorie frozen dinner brand such as Lean Cuisine or Weight Watchers, as the SlimFast diet was a convenience product line that offered none of its own dinner products. Later, in the mid-1990s, SlimFast began offering meal bars that could be used as meal replacements.\n\nSlimFast struggled, as did many diet foods in 2002, with the rise of low-carbohydrate diets, and from 2002-2003 experienced a 21% drop in sales. The brand responded in 2004 with a line of items designed to compete in the low-carb market as well as introduced SlimFast Optima products, which were lower in sugar than the standard SlimFast products.\n\nBetween 2004 and 2009, five types of SlimFast products were available: Original, Optima, Low carb, High protein, and Easy-to-Digest. Optima, the flagship brand, eventually replaced \"original recipe\" shakes. In addition to having less sugar than the original, SlimFast Optima shakes contain a protein and vegetable fat blend that is claimed to help with hunger control. Optima was available in the same forms as the original products: meal bars, powders, shakes, and snack bars.\n\nIn late 2009, SlimFast simplified its product line with the \"3-2-1\" diet plan. The plan emphasized three 100-calorie snacks, two 200-calorie meal replacements (shakes or meal bars), and one dinner. SlimFast's product line now only consists of 3-2-1 products and no longer includes the Optima, Original, Low-Carb, or Easy-to-Digest versions.\n\nThere are two categories of SlimFast products, and two sub-categories each:\n\n\nA dieter could eat two snack bars as their meal replacement, since two snack bars have the same number of calories as one meal bar, although the meal bars are also meant to be rich in vitamins and minerals, whereas the snack bars are only measured by calorie count and not supplemented by vitamins.\n\nSlimFast does not offer products in category \"1\", which is one \"sensible\" meal, which the US site suggests should be 500 calories, while the UK site suggests 600 calories.\n\nOn December 3, 2009, SlimFast recalled all of its canned products due to possible bacterial contamination. The company stated that it had halted production until the cause was discovered. No further problems or issues have been noted. In 2011, SlimFast stopped producing cans and has since used plastic bottles.\n\n"}
{"id": "3281305", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3281305", "title": "Surface Water Simulation Modelling Programme", "text": "Surface Water Simulation Modelling Programme\n\nSurface Water Simulation Modelling Programme (SWSMP) launched in 1986 by the Ministry of Water Resources of Bangladesh Government under the Master Planning Organization to develop a high level of analytical capabilities by use of state-of-the-art mathematical water modelling which was the genesis of what at present is known as the Institute of Water Modelling (IWM).\n"}
{"id": "53281102", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53281102", "title": "The 3000 Club", "text": "The 3000 Club\n\nThe 3000 Club is a Phoenix-based charity which works with food banks in Arizona in order to reduce food waste. The 3000 Club's main program is known as Market on the Move, although the organization provides other services for Arizona communities. Their mission statement is \"Providing life saving fresh fruits and vegetables to impoverished families.\"\n\nGoals are aimed at improving the community, such as preventing 30,000,000 pounds of fresh fruits and vegetables from being wasted each year.\n\nFounder of the organization, Lon Taylor, found a need for funding the continuation of the Nogales food bank. Ethel Luzario, an original member of the entrepreneurial community, joined the organization and expanded it to promote satellite food-banks. In February 2008, medical reclamation was added to the composition of the non-profit. This was initiated by a movement created by Lon and Ethel after their visit to the Philippines. A working partnership now exists between the Southwest Medical Aid in Tucson, Arizona and the 3000 Club. This resulted in the redistribution of 2 million dollars in supplies in the summer of 2008. In 2010, partnering with local churches and other non-profits, Market on the Move was created. As of October 2014, the 3000 Club is unaffiliated with the Nogales food bank.\n\nMarket on the Move is the flagship enterprise of the 3000 Club. It consists of satellite sites throughout Arizona, including Tucson, Phoenix, Flagstaff, Wittenberg, Casa Grande, and Surprise. The venue will vary but usually exists in parking lots of churches, banks, schools, parks, and other well-trafficked areas. The premise of MOM is to distribute unused produce to those in need and to stop the produce from being dumped in a landfill, specifically the Rio Rico landfill. This includes up to 60 lbs of food for a donation of $10, on a suggestion \"pay what you can\" basis. MOM encourages the participants to share this produce with friends, neighbors, family members and local organizations. This produce sharing also goes towards environmental concerns in that produce waste is one of the main causes of methane gas being released into the atmosphere. These pick-up sites are open Saturdays from 8am-11am and Wednesdays from 11am-1pm during the majority of the year. Signage guides visitors to the specific temporary set-up location. The rotating sites create a farmers market style. The market provides primarily vegetables, although citrus (seasonally) and melons are occasionally available.\n\nThis permanent thrift store continues the mission of the 3000 Club in its commitment to reclaiming goods and providing easy access to those in need. Items available and accepted as donations are: clothing, footwear, household appliances, electronics and computers, decorations, and garden tools, both electric and manual. The store is open 6 days a week, Monday-Friday: 8am-4pm, and Saturday: 6am-9am. They are located at Tucson Warehouse, 350 S. Toole Avenue, Tucson, Arizona, 85701\n\nThe 3000 club accepts donations of any items such as clothing, household cleaning and utility items, dry and canned foods, and toiletries. These items go towards the aid of victims of any disasters, natural or otherwise, and to better prepare and collaborate with relief efforts.\n\nThe Salvation Army and Team Up for Tucson also offer donation opportunities locally.\n\nThe American Medical Aid Program (The 3000 Club Medical Reclamation Project) has been working since 2008 to redistribute medical supplies and equipment to people in need. Supplies are distributed to people in local, national, and global communities. In addition, the program travels to other countries with a team of volunteers in order to provide medical service and supplies to populations in critical need.\n\nOne of the 3000 Club's program is the \"Blank Program\". They focus on providing blankets to both homeless veterans and homeless shelters. The 3000 club partners with numerous organizations to distribute donated blankets to the over 45,000 homeless veterans currently in America. The program includes an option of donating $3 to supply a blanket to those in need. In donating a blanket the organization stresses the importance of it being more than just a material good that provides warmth and comfort, but one that creates a livable sleeping arrangement.\n\nThe 3000 Club also refurbishes donated computers, appliances, and other goods in order to reduce waste and provide affordable electronics for the Tucson Community. Students from 5th through 12th grade may qualify for reduced prices on the program's goods.\n"}
{"id": "6534078", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6534078", "title": "The Gothenburg Study of Children with DAMP", "text": "The Gothenburg Study of Children with DAMP\n\nThe Gothenburg Study of Children with DAMP was a study of six-year-old children in Gothenburg, Sweden that began in 1977. The purpose was to find out what proportion of the children had Deficits in Attention, Motor control and Perception (DAMP), formerly known as Minimal Brain Disorder (MBD), and to follow the development of that group over the years. The results and discussions have been published in four dissertations and approximately 30 scientific papers.\n\nThe first phase of the study was designed mainly by Christopher Gillberg and Peder Rasmussen. Initially, preschool teachers in all areas of Gothenburg were asked to answer a questionnaire with a series of yes and no questions to identify children that possibly had MBD. (The questionnaire was based on an earlier pilot study.) The researchers used a purely operational (symptom-based) definition of MBD that had been devised especially for the study and was later termed DAMP.\n\nThe researchers received questionnaires for more than 3400 children. which constituted around 72% of the total population. 340 children (10%) were identified, based on the questionnaires, as having problems that could indicate MBD. Out of this group of 340, all the children that seemed to have the most severe problems and a random sample of the others were selected for a detailed examination.\n\nIn the Gothenburg study, a questionnaire for preschool teachers was used from which children with some potential psychiatric problems were classified into either a high-index or a low-index group. In the final investigation, there were 22 children (14 boys and 8 girls) in the high-index group and 60 children (52 boys and 8 girls) in the low-index group. These were compared with a randomly selected control group. The control group ultimately consisted of 59 children (29 boys and 30 girls). Of the total of 141 children, 42 (33 boys and 9 girls) were diagnosed as having MBD/DAMP; of the 42, 40 were in the index group (18 in the high-index group) and 2 in the control group. All the children were initially age 6–7 (born 1971) and were from Gothenburg, Sweden. The children were later investigated at ages 10, 13, 16, and 22.\n\nLeif Elinder, a Swedish pediatrician and Eva Kärfve, a sociologist at the University of Lund, had for a number of years written numerous articles and a book where they rejected most of neuropsychiatry, and specifically most research carried out by the Gillberg group. In Kärfve's book (Kärfve, 2000) she suggested that the purpose of the DAMP diagnosis was \"to achieve no other permanent change than segregation\".\n\nEva Kärfve and Leif Elinder wrote letters to Gothenburg University where they accused Gillberg and Rasmussen of scientific misconduct. The specific accusation was that they had added participants to the control group for the final follow-up study at age 22. The accusations were investigated by the Ethics Council at the University of Gothenburg and dismissed as baseless. (The only supposed \"evidence\" of wrongdoing provided by Elinder and Kärfve was that the drop-out rate in the follow-up study was low.)\n\nIn February 2002 Eva Kärfve demanded access (as a private person) to all the records from the Gothenburg study.\n\nIn April 2002 Leif Elinder wrote Gothenburg University, demanding the University make an investigation whether \"good ethical standard of research\" had been followed.\n\nIn July 2002 Leif Elinder demanded access to records from the Gothenburg study.\n\nKärfve and Elinder were not satisfied with this dismissal and continued to demand access to the medical records. In their letters, they did not refer to allegations of scientific misconduct but to the necessity to investigate the basis for medical practice in Sweden.\n\nEva Kärve and Leif Elinder were denied access by Gothenburg University. The reason for this denial of access was that the material contained highly sensitive data, that the participants had been promised full confidentiality, that Elinder and Kärfve would use the material as private citizens, and that the participants were strongly against giving them access.\n\nElinder and Kärfve then took the matter to court, where it was decided that they would be allowed full access to the research material. Kammarrätten (an administrative court in Sweden) decided 2003-02-06 that Elinder and Kärfve would be allowed access under the conditions in Swedish secrecy laws. Kammarrätten decided that the University would decide the conditions which would protect the interests of individuals.\n\nThe University of Gothenburg decided 2003-04-07 the conditions which Eva Kärfve had to follow to gain access to the material. After an appeal of Eva Kärfve, Kammarrätten decided 2003-08-11 the exact conditions which Eva Kärfve needed to follow to gain access to the material.\n\nThe researchers and the University tried to use all legal possibilities to avoid giving out the medical records which constituted 22 shelf meters (about 100,000 pages, video and sound recordings).\n\nIn May 2004 when it appeared that the University would be forced to hand the material over, three of Gillberg's coworkers decided to destroy most of the research material. In June 2005 Gillberg and the Rector of Gothenburg University were convicted for not handing the material over to Kärfve and Elinder. Gillberg received a suspended sentence and a fine; the Rector received a fine. In March 2006 the three coworkers were convicted for destroying the data. Each of the three received a suspended sentence and a fine: Peder Rasmussen, Carina Gillberg (wife of Christopher Gillberg), and Kerstin Lamberg.\n\nLamberg is vice-chairman of the Autism (Patients) Society (\"Riksföreningen Autism\"). Both the Autism Society and the Attention (Patients) Society (\"Riksförbundet Attention\") have remained strong supporters of Gillberg.\n\nIn 2005, Per-Anders Rydelius, Professor of Child Psychiatry at the Karolinska Institute, and Rolf Zetterstrom, past chief editor of \"Acta Paediatrica\", have been critical of some research based on the Gothenburg study. In the Swedish trade journal \"Dagens Medicin\" they argued that the Gillberg group, in order to prove their hypothesis, repeatedly changed diagnoses and information in their material: \"Accessible articles (from the Gillberg group) reveal that those studied have been managed in an unscientific way - a conclusion which does not need strengthening by what could have been found in the destroyed research material\". (Another problem is the boy:girl ratios in the study; the ratio in the control group is 1:1, whereas the ratio in the index groups is 4:1.)\n\nThe major Swedish newspapers have had tens of stories on the controversy: Dagens Nyheter, Svenska Dagbladet, Göteborgs-Posten, etc. There was also a one-hour program about DAMP on Swedish TV that discussed the controversy over Gillberg's Gothenburg study at length.\n\nIn Norway, the newspaper Dagsavisen ran a series of critical stories.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34848640", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34848640", "title": "The OrganWise Guys", "text": "The OrganWise Guys\n\nThe OrganWise Guys (OWG) was created in 1993 in Duluth, GA to teach young children about the importance of making healthy choices in their lives through learning about their internal organs. The goal of OWG programming is to educate children and adults about nutrition and healthy living, and to prevent childhood obesity.\n\nRather than learning about organs through textbooks, OWG uses fictional animated characters and puppets to teach children about their bodies in an age appropriate manner.\n\nOWG's messages rely on the theme of empowerment, encouraging children to understand the importance of their health at a young age. The main \"rules\" of the OWG Club are to: eat a low fat and high fiber diet, drink lots of water, and get plenty of exercise. Characters like the Kidney Brothers discuss the importance of drinking water to keep the blood clean, and Peter Pancreas explains how he controls sugar levels in the body by making insulin. The OWG school-based nutrition and healthy living education curricula is matched to the Common Core State Standards Initiative for grades pre K-5.\n\nThe Healthier Options for Public Schoolchildren (2004-2009), a quasi-experimental study in elementary schools, was designed to test the efficacy of 1) changes to meals served to children at school, 2) nutrition and healthy lifestyle curricula linked to the core subject requirements, monthly food-based social marketing and education, and daily physical activity (including OWG), and 3) other school-based wellness activities such as school gardens. HOPS resulted in statistically significant improvements in program children's weight, blood pressure, and waist circumference measures, as well as significantly higher average standardized test scores, as compared to outcomes of children in non-program schools.\n\nOWG materials are used in early childcare centers, elementary schools, communities, summer camps, faith-based institutions, supermarkets, and clinics throughout the United States. From 2009-2012, a $2 million grant funded by The W.K Kellogg Foundation to the Mississippi Food Network provided funds to a land-grant university cooperative extension service to carry out OWG programming in Arkansas, Florida, Louisiana, Mississippi, Michigan, and New Mexico. The concept of schools as \"hubs\" of obesity prevention was further developed through the work made possible by this grant, and this is the approach that OWG takes in its childhood obesity prevention efforts.\n\n"}
{"id": "20852292", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20852292", "title": "University of Nursing, Mandalay", "text": "University of Nursing, Mandalay\n\nThe University of Nursing, Mandalay (also the Institute of Nursing, Mandalay; , ) is a university of nursing, located in Mandalay, Myanmar. It is one of three universities in the nation that offers a four-year bachelor's degree program in nursing. The university also offers a master's degree program in nursing.\n\nThe university, which admits only 100 students per year, is one of the more selective universities in the nation. Nursing is one of few professions in Myanmar that provides decent job opportunities—inside or outside the country. The University Entrance Examination matriculation marks required for admission in 2006 was 380 out 600, slightly below what was required to go to medical school.\n\nSpeciality diploma programs in dental, EENT, mental health, pediatrics, critical care, and orthopedics are offered only at the Yangon Institute of Nursing.\n\n"}
{"id": "57638895", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57638895", "title": "Unseen species problem", "text": "Unseen species problem\n\nThe unseen species problem is commonly referred to in ecology and deals with the estimation of the number of species represented in an ecosystem that were not observed by samples. It more specifically relates to how many new species would be discovered if more samples were taken in an ecosystem. The study of the unseen species problem was started in the early 1940s by Alexander Corbet. He spent 2 years in Malaya trapping butterflies, and was curious how many new species he would discover if he spent another 2 years trapping. Many different estimation methods have been developed to determine how many new species would be discovered given more samples. The unseen species problem also applies more broadly, as the estimators can be used to estimate any new elements of a set not previously found in samples. An example of this is determining how many words William Shakespeare knew based on all of his written works. The unseen species problem can be broken down mathematically as follows:\n\nIf formula_1 independent samples are taken, formula_2, and then if formula_3 more independent samples were taken, the number of unseen species that will be discovered by the additional samples is given byformula_4with formula_5 being the second set of formula_6 samples.\n\nIn the early 1940s Alexander Steven Corbet spent 2 years in Malaya trapping butterflies. He kept track of how many species he observed, and how many members of each species were captured. For example, he captured only 2 members of 74 different species. When he returned to the United Kingdom, he approached statistician Ronald Fisher, and asked how many new species of butterflies he could expect to catch if he went trapping for another two years. In essence, Corbet was asking how many species he observed zero times.Fisher responded with a simple estimation: for an additional 2 years of trapping, Corbet could expect to capture 75 new species. He did this using a simple summation (data provided by Orlitsky in Table 1 below in the Example section):formula_7Here, formula_8 corresponds to the number of individual species which were observed formula_9 times. Fisher's sum was later confirmed by Good–Toulmin.\n\nTo estimate the number of unseen species, let formula_10 be number of future samples (formula_6) divided by the number of past samples (formula_12), or formula_13. Let formula_14 be the number of individual species observed formula_15 times (for example, if there were 74 species of butterflies with 2 observed members throughout the samples, then formula_16).\n\nThe Good–Toulmin estimator was developed by I. J. Good and G. H. Toulmin in 1953. The estimate of the unseen species based on the Good–Toulmin estimator is given byformula_17The Good–Toulmin Estimator has been shown to be a good estimate for values of formula_18 (1). The Good–Toulmin estimator also approximates thatformula_19 This means that formula_20 estimates formula_21 to within formula_22 as long as formula_23.  However, for formula_24, the Good–Toulmin estimator fails to capture accurate results. This is because, if formula_24, formula_26 increases by formula_27 for formula_28 with formula_29, meaning that if formula_29, formula_26 grows super-linearly in formula_32, but formula_33 can grow at most linearly with formula_32. Therefore, when formula_24, formula_26 grows faster than formula_33 and does not approximate the true value.\n\nTo compensate for this, Efron and Thisted showed that a truncated Euler transform can also be a usable estimate:formula_38withformula_39andformula_40where formula_41 is the location chosen to truncate the Euler transform.\n\nSimilar to the approach by Efron and Thisted, Alon Orlitsky developed the smooth Good–Toulmin estimator. Orlitsky realized that the Good–Toulmin estimator failed for because of the exponential growth, and not its bias. Therefore, Orlitsky estimated the number of unseen species by truncating the series.formula_42Orlitsky also noted that for distributions with formula_43, the driving term in the summation estimate is the formula_44 term, regardless of which value of formula_45 is chosen. To solve this, Orlitsky elected a random nonnegative integer formula_46, truncated the series at formula_46, and then took the average over a distribution about formula_46. The resulting estimator isformula_49This method was chosen because the bias of formula_50 shifts signs due to the formula_51 coefficient. Averaging over a distribution of formula_46 therefore reduces the bias. This means that the estimator can be written as the linear combination of the prevalence: formula_53Depending on the distribution of formula_46 chosen, the results will vary. With this method, estimates can be made for formula_55.\n\nThe species discovery curve can also be used. This curve relates the number of species found in an area as a function of the time. These curves can also be created by using estimators (such as the Good–Toulmin estimator) and plotting the number of unseen species at each value for formula_56.\n\nA species discovery curve is always increasing, as there is never a sample that could decrease the number of discovered species. Furthermore, the species discovery curve is also decelerating; the more samples taken, the fewer unseen species are expected to be discovered. The species discovery curve will also never asymptote, as it is assumed that although the discovery rate might become infinitely slow, it will never actually stop. Two common models for a species discovery curve are the logarithmic and the exponential function.\n\nAs an example, consider the data Corbet provided Fisher in the 1940s. Using the Good–Toulmin model, the number of unseen species is found usingformula_57This can then be used to create a relationship between formula_56 and formula_59.\n\nThis relationship is shown in the plot below.\nFrom the plot, it is seen that at formula_60, which was the value of formula_56 that Corbet brought to Fisher, the resulting estimate of formula_59 is 75, matching what Fisher found. This plot also acts as a species discovery curve for this ecosystem, and defines how many new species will be discovered as formula_56 increases (and more samples are taken).\n\nThere are numerous uses for the predictive algorithm. Knowing that the estimators are accurate, it allows scientists to extrapolate accurately the results of polling people by a factor of 2. They can predict the number of unique answers based on the number of people that have answered similarly. The method can also be used to determine the extent of someone's knowledge. A prime example is determining how many unique words Shakespeare knew based on the written works we have today.\n\nBased on research done by Thisted and Efron, of Shakespeare's known works, there are 884,647 total words. The research also found that there are at total of formula_64 different words that appear more than 100 times. Therefore, the total number of unique words was found to be 31,534. Applying the Good–Toulmin model, if an equal number of works by Shakespeare were discovered, then it is estimated that formula_65 unique words would be found. The goal would be to derive formula_66 for formula_67. Thisted and Efron estimate that formula_68, meaning that Shakespeare most likely knew almost twice as many words as he actually used in all of his writings.\n\n"}
{"id": "4857477", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4857477", "title": "Våvatnet", "text": "Våvatnet\n\nVåvatnet is a lake on the border of the municipalities of Snillfjord and Orkdal in Trøndelag county, Norway. The lake was dammed in 1910 and is used as the main reservoir for the municipality of Orkdal. The water flows into the lake Songsjøen and then into the lake Gagnåsvatnet.\n\nThe lake is about south of the village of Krokstadøra and southeast of the village of Ytre Snillfjord, both in Snillfjord municipality, and west of the village of Gjølme in Orkdal municipality.\n\n"}
{"id": "34492254", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34492254", "title": "Walk Away Renee (film)", "text": "Walk Away Renee (film)\n\nWalk Away Renee is a 2011 American documentary film directed by Jonathan Caouette. It is the third full-length feature in Caouette's filmography. Intended as a companion to Caouette's first film, \"Tarnation\", \"Walk Away Renee\" documents Caouette's cross-country journey with his mother, Renee Leblanc. Leblanc, diagnosed with acute bipolar and schizoaffective disorder, is to enter an assisted living facility close to Caouette's home, therefore necessitating a move from Houston to New York City.\n\nThe film was screened as a \"work in progress\" at the 2011 Festival de Cannes Critics Week. In July, 2011 distributor Sundance Selects acquired the distribution rights to the film.\n\n"}
{"id": "56266087", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56266087", "title": "William Pirrie (surgeon)", "text": "William Pirrie (surgeon)\n\nProf William Pirrie FRSE LLD (1807–1882) was a 19th century Scottish surgeon and medical author. He served as President of the North of Scotland Medical Association.\n\nHe was born on a farm near Huntly, Aberdeenshire the son of George Pirrie, a farmer. He was educated at Gartly Parish School then studied Medicine at Marischal College in Aberdeen, graduating MA in 1825. He did further postgraduate studies in Paris under Baron Dupuytren. He gained his doctorate (MD) in 1829.\n\nIn 1830 he began lecturing in Anatomy and Physiology at Aberdeen University. In 1839 he became the first Regius Professor of Surgery at Marischal College.\n\nIn 1849 he was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society of Edinburgh. His proposer was James Miller.\n\nIn 1860, when Marischal College reunited with Aberdeen University, he became Professor of Surgery to Aberdeen, working alongside Prof John Struthers (Professor of Anatomy). also from 1860 he became the head surgeon of Aberdeen Royal Infirmary.\n\nIn 1875 Edinburgh University awarded him an honorary doctorate (LLD). His students included James Greig Smith.\n\nHe retired in June 1882 and died soon after, at 253 Union Street in Aberdeen, on 21 November 1882.\n\nHe was father to Alexander Pirrie civil engineer (d.1904) and grandfather to Alexander Mactier Pirrie.\n\n"}
{"id": "42864385", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42864385", "title": "Winifred Cullis", "text": "Winifred Cullis\n\nWinifred Cullis (2 June 1875 – 13 November 1956) was a physician and academic, and the first woman to hold a professorial chair at a medical school.\n\nBorn in Gloucester, Winifred was the youngest daughter of Frederick John and Louisa Cullis. She was educated at King Edwards VI High School for Girls, Birmingham after which she attended Newnham College, Cambridge and then London School of Medicine for Women. She became professor of physiology at the University of London in 1919.\n\nShe was president of the British Federation of University Women (1925–1929) and the International Federation of University Women (1929–1932). She toured the world extensively promoting higher education for women and also promoted adult education via radio shows.\n\nThe International Federation of University Women has an award in her honour.\n"}
