{"id": "37398695", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37398695", "title": "109 Washington Street", "text": "109 Washington Street\n\n109 Washington Street is a five-story tenement on the Lower West Side of Manhattan in New York City, within the area once known as Little Syria. Due to demolitions connected to the construction of the Brooklyn Battery Tunnel and the World Trade Center, it stands as the last tenement on a portion of lower Washington Street that has been estimated by Kate Reggev to have contained around 50 tenements. After September 11, 2001, its proximity to the World Trade Center site made it the subject of some media attention, including a nationally syndicated radio story about the experiences of its residents on the day of the attack. In recent years, community officials, activists, and preservationists have advocated for its designation as a landmark as part of a mini-historical district with the connected buildings of St. George's Syrian Catholic Church and the Downtown Community House.\n\nA four-story, brick “public store” that received goods from the piers on West Street stood at 109 Washington Street since the early 1820s, if not before; several other nearby buildings on Washington Street at Nos. 97, 101, and 103 were also commercial structures serving the same purpose. Typically, public stores in large cities like New York housed goods coming directly from the wharves so that they could be appraised before being brought to the individual shops or markets where they would be sold. Owned at the time by Samuel Swartwout, a wealthy land speculator, an 1837 fire at the store led to a valuation of its goods at approximately $300,000, including pipes of lime juice; boxes of glass; cases of wine, brandy, and gin; boxes of cigars; and cases of cordials. By the 1850s, the property housed a residential building that was occupied by Irish and Irish-American families throughout the 1860s and 1870s; beginning in the 1870s and 1880s, German immigrants joined the Irish population. Common occupations were servants, sailors, cooks, machinists, laborers, longshoremen, and barbers.\n\nTenement buildings are by legal definition a multi-family building housing more than three families, according to the Tenement House Law of 1867; the later association of tenements with lower-income, immigrant families is believed to have stemmed from the typical 25-foot-wide lots in New York City, creating narrow apartments with little access to light and ventilation except for in the front rooms. Most tenement houses built before the first tenement law in 1879, also known as the “old law,” were constructed with little to no building regulations; after 1879, the typical shape of tenements shifted to the “dumbbell” apartments, where three-foot wide light shafts on either side of the structure were an attempt at providing light and air to the inner rooms. Unfortunately, this did not provide the desired access to air and light but rather created what essentially became garbage shafts and fire flues and did little for residents in the way of privacy from neighbors in the buildings next door. 1901 saw the second wave of tenement reform, with requirements addressing both access to lighting for interior rooms, slightly larger air shafts, and indoor toilet facilities; many of these reforms became requirements for preexisting tenements that had to be brought up to code. Stylistically, the “old law” tenements tended to be four- or five-story red brick structures with stone or terra-cotta window details and a neo-Grec pressed metal cornice; later “new law” tenements could be up to six stories with brick and glazed terra-cotta trim, often with Renaissance or Classical, strongly projecting details.\n\nIn 1881, the existing pre-1879 tenement was sold in foreclosure for $5,000 and then subsequently resold that same year to Lawrence O’Connor, resident of 115 Washington Street and employee at a local liquor store. Much of the tenement construction during the late 19th century was carried out by local entrepreneurs with a small amount of savings who sought an opportunity to become landowners and landlords; these entrepreneurs, like the Irish-born Lawrence O’Connor, typically were members of the same ethnic or religious groups as those who would occupy the tenement. Four years later in 1885, O’Connor demolished the existing brick building and hired architect John P. Lee to construct an “old law” tenement of five stories, with a storefront and perhaps two or three apartments on the ground floor and four three-room apartments on each of the upper floors. Typical of most tenement buildings constructed after the 1879 “old law” regulations and before the 1901 “new law” requirements, No. 109 Washington Street was designed for 19 apartments, each with two windows in the largest of the three rooms and little to no light or ventilation in the other rooms, except for a narrow three-foot wide airshaft on the southern wall as required by the “old law” of 1879. An airshaft was never constructed on the northern side of the building, perhaps, according to Kate Reggev, because of the tenement at 111 Washington Street that was a front-and-rear style tenement in 1885 and thus had a small courtyard in the middle of the lot, providing some access to air and light for its neighbors.\n\nMost of the tenements further south on Washington Street were of a lower class, considered “foul,” while the tenements further north on Washington Street near Rector Street, like No. 109, were for the slightly better-off immigrants and were viewed as “better class,” most likely because they were newer than the many converted warehouses and rowhouses further down on Washington Street. Once a pervasive building type in the area, these “old law” tenements were “low, red brick tenements whose fronts [were] scrawled over with fire escapes” and consisted of apartments of three or four rooms and “whose rears opened down into desolately dark courts.”\n\nLike most other tenements in Little Syria, No. 109 Washington Street had a commercial space of two large rooms on the ground floor. Although there is little documentation of the tenement’s early inhabitants or the use of the ground floor storefront, three Syrian immigrants ran cigar factories at 57 and 109 Washington Street in 1894 and were caught for fraudulently putting on revenue stamps for tax purposes on their products. In the late 1910s, the space was occupied by Pedro Caram, an immigrant from Syria, who specialized in the exportation of cotton and silk goods, hardware, dry goods, tools, shoes, and jewelry to South America. By 1917, Caram’s business was in trouble, and the storefront was occupied in the early 1920s by another merchant of Syrian descent, Leon Labe, who sold silk and cotton textiles, including silk kimonos, embroidery, curtains, hosiery, and sweaters to the Dutch West Indies, Peru, Puerto Rico, Chile, Honduras, Brazil and Argentina. By 1940, a retailer selling glass occupied the ground floor store.\n\nBeginning in the mid- to late-1880s, Washington Street near Rector Street began to see an influx of immigrants from the Middle East, but No. 109 in particular remained largely populated by Irish and German immigrants. By the turn of the century, the buildings adjacent to No. 109 were home to Greek, Turkish/Syrian, Russian, Italian, German, Austrian, Welsh, Norwegian, English and Irish immigrants. Most of the Syrians, often referred to as Turks because of their Turkish passports from when Lebanon, Palestine, and Syria were part of the Ottoman Empire, lived with extended family—brothers, sisters, aunts, and uncles. Their occupations ranged from machinists, peddlers, cigar makers, shoemakers, and grocers to the occasional dealer of jewelry. Women were sometimes employed as dressmakers or embroiderers.\n\nNo. 109 was home to 37 people in 1900, roughly 75% of whom were Irish or first generation Irish-American; the rest were German or first-generation German-Americans, and most males worked as laborers, longshoremen, truck drivers, or bank clerks. Depending on the family, women were also sometimes employed, usually as scrubwomen in the nearby office buildings of the new skyscrapers in the Financial District. By 1905, about 60% of the block’s 47 families (196 people) were Syrian immigrants; Greeks and Egyptians also began to move into the area, but the tenement at 109 Washington Street was inhabited by 34 residents of Irish, Hungarian, or Austrian origin.\n\nBy 1910, the number of occupants of 109 Washington Street doubled to over 60 people as the Austrian-Hungarian, Irish, Scottish, Russian-Lithuanian, Italian, and Austrian-Slovak families took in lodgers of their own respective ethnicities. This increase, according to Kate Reggev, could be due to the large numbers of immigrants that arrived in the community during the decade spanning 1900 to 1910, or could also be due to improvements made to the structure in 1907. Because of the wave of immigrants arriving in New York around the turn of the century, there was a heightened demand for housing and the Department of Buildings sought to improve the conditions of the “old law” tenements throughout Manhattan and Brooklyn, perhaps improving the conditions only to have the structures filled with even more inhabitants than before.\n\nBy 1920, only one of the original Irish families was still living in the tenement, and the influx of newer immigrants from Slovakia, Poland, and Russia who arrived in the United States between 1905 and 1915 is evident in the Czech-Slovak, Austrian, and Austrian-Slovak residents of the building. Throughout the 1920s and 1930s, the tenement was home to Czech-Slovak, Irish-American, Polish, and German families and lodgers who worked as elevator runners, file clerks at a bank, dishwashers in a restaurant, watchmen in an office building, furniture painters, waiters, seamen, telephone electricians, porters, wholesalers, and cooks in restaurant. Similar demographics are seen again in 1940, but with fewer residents—only 40 people lived in the building, perhaps indicative of the changing nature and decrease in population of the neighborhood. The building’s inhabitants, hailing from Czechoslovakia, Poland, Yugoslavia, and the United States (with many native-born New Yorkers), worked as porters, salesmen at a cigar store, longshoremen, dishwashers, accountants, and bakers. Women, as well, were often employed, typically as office cleaners in nearby office towers or as waitresses.\n\n109 Washington Street was a typical example of a tenement in Little Syria both in its construction and in the wide range of its residents: it housed hundreds of people of more than thirteen nationalities in the first sixty years of the building’s existence—Austrian, Slovak, Scottish, Irish, Hungarian, Russian, Lithuanian, Italian, Polish, Czech, German, Yugoslavian, and American. Because no Syrian residents have been documented through census records at 109 Washington Street, this could, according to Kate Reggev, perhaps speak to the tendency for building owners to rent apartments to people of the same ethnicity—the O’Connors, of Irish background, may have purposely avoided housing Syrian immigrants despite their large numbers in the area, or they may simply not have been residents at 109 Washington Street at the time of the census. While a similar tenement in New York City’s Lower East Side, another significant immigrant enclave, would most likely have had a higher occupancy rate, Washington Street was home to a wider range of nationalities and ethnicities and truly represented a melting pot of backgrounds.\n\nOf the 16 four-, five-and six-story brick residential buildings and tenements that lined Washington Street between Rector and Carlisle Street in the 1910s, No. 109 was among the taller, newer structures on the street and had a projecting metal-framed bay window storefront. The architect of the tenement, John P. Lee, had his offices at 168 East 89th Street and was perhaps the same John P. Lee, president of the Builders League in the early 20th century. He frequently acted as a consultant and representative of the Builders League regarding amendments to the Tenement House Law of 1901, and, if in fact the architect of 109 Washington Street and several other tenements, he would have been very familiar with the building type.\n\nThe five-story, four-bay running-bond brick tenement building at 109 Washington Street was constructed in 1885 to be a residential structure that extends nearly all the way back to its rear lot line. The original windows were most likely three-over-three double-sash windows and have what appear to be molded brownstone sills and lintels with neo-Classical inspired swags reliefs. The painted sheet-metal, neo-Grec cornice held up by projecting brackets has a matching sheet-metal belt course just below the cornice; both are painted a brown color to resemble the cast iron window trim. These architectural details were most likely purchased from builder’s yards but the subtle swag detail and the use of decorative finishings on the windows, as opposed to lintels and sills with no ornamentation at all, indicates at least some desire to provide ornamentation on the façade. A belt course of slate or bluestone runs through the upper edge of the windows on each floor, and a fire escape on the façade of the building has been extant on the building beginning some time prior to 1907; the current fire escape was most likely preceded by another one, due to holes in the masonry of the facade where the previous escape would have been attached. The fire escapes were typically used to air out bedding, dry laundry, or store large items such as basins or baths.\nThe apartments of No. 109 Washington Street were divided into three rooms: a front room or parlor having access to the two windows in the front or rear of the building, a kitchen located in the middle room, and a small bedroom situated in the center of the structure, either across from or next to the staircase. Each apartment was entered through the kitchen, which had doors leading to either the bedroom or the parlor. The entrance on the ground floor was located on the north side of the building, and the stairs were accessed via a long, narrow hallway.\n\nThe building has been through two alterations. Originally intended for 19 families when it was built in 1885, 109 Washington Street was home to roughly 35 to 40 people at any given time through the turn of the century; beginning in 1910, the number roughly doubles, with 67 occupants in 1910, 60 in 1920, and 56 in 1930. In 1907, the building was brought up to code outlined in the 1901 Tenement House Law, carried out at No. 109 by John J. O’Connor, an architect and relative of the owner. The 1907 changes included blocking out and flooring over the existing light shaft and creating a new one that would measure five feet by five feet, adding two shared toilets on each floor next to the new light shaft, and inserting windows on interior partition walls in the apartment for light and ventilation. At a later date, the exterior windows were replaced, in some cases in a haphazard manner, and the original metal and glass bay window storefront has been replaced with a tacked-on storefront.\n\nThe tenement remained in the O’Connor family for over 70 years following Lawrence O’Connor’s purchase of the property; in 1955, O’Connor descendants sold the property to Finkenstadt Realty, and through the new owner Robert Ehrich, further improvements were made to the building. In 1955, the first floor store was equipped to prepare food and was converted into a deli, while two new toilets on the north side of the building were added on each of the residential floors. The ground floor has since remained a food service location, housing various restaurants including Marino’s Pizza in the 1980s and currently Budtharasa Thai Food. Aside from the replaced windows and the changed storefront, the building looks remarkably similar to the way it did over one hundred years ago.\n\nBecause of the tenement's proximity to the World Trade Center and its unusual status in the neighborhood, its residents experienced September 11 in a unique way that received media attention after the attacks. In 2003, Public Radio International syndicated the program \"109 on 9-11: An Audio Documentary\" about the building and about the day of the attacks. In the piece narrated by Jack Cadwallader, residents Eddie Metropolis, Jim Pedersen, Roxanne Yamashiro, Nancy Keegan, Lesley McBurney, Erwin Silverstein, Flavio Rizzo, and Veruska Cantelli present their memories.\n\nBecause of the major eminent domain actions and demolitions in the neighborhood, collections of current and former residents and historic preservationists have advocated for the protection of 109 Washington Street as a New York City landmark. Community Board One has passed a resolution encouraging the New York City Landmarks Preservation Commission to hold a hearing on this question. In 2011, as reported by the \"The New York Times\" and the BBC News, a coalition called Save Washington Street of Arab-American and other ethnic organizations, prominent individuals, and historic preservationist wrote letters to the Commission's Chairman Robert Tierney encouraging him to hold hearings on the building. In October 2011 in a ceremony at the Museum of Chinese in America, the Place Matters organization founded by City Lore presented 109 Washington Street, and its residents and advocates, one of its \"Places That Matter\" awards.\n"}
{"id": "18163293", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18163293", "title": "250 West Pratt Street", "text": "250 West Pratt Street\n\n250 West Pratt Street is a highrise building located in Baltimore, Maryland. The building stands at 360 feet/110 meters, containing 24 floors. The building was constructed and completed in 1986, designed by Skidmore, Owings and Merrill LLP., and originally developed by and for Cabot, Cabot & Forbes. The building is located in the center of Baltimore's central commercial district, and is the building most visible from Oriole Park at Camden Yards.\n\nIn early 2015 Danish jewelry maker Pandora Jewelry moved 600 employees and its regional headquarters for the Americas to the building. As part of a ten-year lease, the company's logo will be added to the building, visible from the street and from Camden Yards.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11983186", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11983186", "title": "80 South Street", "text": "80 South Street\n\n80 South Street is a residential skyscraper proposed for construction in New York City. The building was planned for construction in Lower Manhattan, and designed by renowned Spanish architect Santiago Calatrava. However, the project was cancelled on April 16, 2008 in the wake of a declining real estate market. A new design of the building is without the spire, decreasing the tower to 826 feet, was planned to finish in 2016. China Oceanwide Holdings Limited acquired 80 South Street in March 2016, with plans to create a 113-story tower.\n\nThe design of the building consisted of 12 four-story cubes stacked on top of one another, cantilevered off a central concrete column standing above an 8-story base. The slender concrete core would contain elevators, fire stairs and risers for plumbing and power. The base was intended to hold a cultural space, such as a museum. The lowest two cubes would hold offices, while the upper 10 cubes were planned to serve as individual residences. Each private cube would consist of about of area, as well as an outdoor garden. The residences each had a cost starting at , with the top cube costing , making them some of the most expensive condominiums in New York City. However, in 2014, he started a new design of 80 south street to propose for construction in New York City.\n\nThe building had a planned roof height of , and the central core was planned to extend as a spire to . The tower was originally conceived as the 3rd-tallest building in New York City (after the Empire State Building and the Bank of America Tower).\n\nThe design for 80 South Street was first released to the public in 2003. Santiago Calatrava has stated that he took the idea for the building from a sculpture he created in 1985. 80 South Street received approval for construction from the City of New York in February 2005; the site on which it was planned to be constructed is currently occupied by a six-story red brick building.\n\nAlthough 80 South Street had been approved by the city, the project was later cancelled in April 2008. The building did not sell any of its 10 multimillion-dollar residential cubes; the developer of the project also listed the declining U.S. real estate market as a factor in its cancellation.\n\nThe existing building, including the side door entrance on Fletcher Street, was used as the set for API headquarters in the short-lived AMC series RUBICON, filmed in 2010.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24760847", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24760847", "title": "Advance for Medical Laboratory Professionals", "text": "Advance for Medical Laboratory Professionals\n\nThe biweekly trade journal \"Advance for Medical Laboratory Professionals\" started in February 1989. During its time in circulation, it served an audience of bench technologists, chief technologists, cytotechnologists, generalists, histotechnologists, laboratory directors/managers, laboratory section heads, medical laboratory scientists, medical laboratory technicians, blood specialists, educators and others in the medical laboratory field. Special issues of the trade journal included the education issue, National Medical Laboratory Professionals Week issue, industry outlook issue, new graduate issue and the annual safety issue.\n\nThe publication also conducted a biannual salary survey of laboratory professionals in conjunction with \"Advance for Administrators of the Laboratory\".\nThe National Credentialing Agency for Laboratory Personnel Inc. had an editorial agreement with \"Advance for Medical Laboratory Professionals\" and the publication featured a regular column called “Ask NCA.” \nAccording to BPA Worldwide, \"Advance for Medical Laboratory Professionals\" had a circulation of 41,875 prior to ceasing publication.\n\n\"Advance for Medical Laboratory Professionals\" received the Corporate Recognition Award from the Pennsylvania chapter of the American Society for Clinical Laboratory Science.\nIn 2006, the trade journal’s editor, Matthew Patton, won an award in the Awards for Publication Excellence in the Editorial and Advocacy Writing category \n\n"}
{"id": "33769740", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33769740", "title": "Advania", "text": "Advania\n\nAdvania is a Nordic information technology service corporation headquartered in Reykjavík, Iceland. The company is the largest in its field in Iceland and the 9th largest in the Nordic countries. Advania has corporate clients in the public and private sector. It provides a wide range of IT-services, platforms, cloud solutions and support to multinational enterprises, governments, big, small and medium-sized businesses.\n\nAdvania traces its roots to three Nordic countries, Iceland, Norway and Sweden. Over a long period of time each country generated a component of what eventually was braided into one company, Advania AB, in 2012.\n\nIn 1939 the Icelandic entrepreneur Einar J. Skúlason founded EJS, an office equipment repair workshop in Reykjavik. He soon expanded his business, opened a store and started importing office machinery, cash registers etc. During World War II the company also repaired guns and lighters. EJS eventually became a dominant IT business in Iceland. In 1952 the Icelandic government and the city of Reykjavik founded Skýrr, an IT company whose purpose was to take a leading role in computing and recordkeeping in Iceland. The company was privatized in 1995 and later became the core element in a group of companies – including EJS – that merged under the Skýrr brand.\n\nIn 1971 the IT company Nokia Elektronic AB – later renamed Datapoint Svenska AB – was founded in Sweden. The company sold Datapoint computer terminals but later became a network pioneer and a key system integrator in Sweden. In 2003 Datapoint merged with Virtus AB, an IT-company which was founded in 1994 and grew rapidly. Virtus soon became a key player in the Swedish market, focusing on Microsoft based solutions and offering storage & backup services. In 2003 one the strongest and most comprehensive system integrators in Sweden was created when Datapoint and Virtus merged. The new company was named Kerfi AB.\n\nIn 1991 Merkantildata Applikasjon was founded in Norway, originally as a business unit within Merkantildata (later ATEA). The company focused on implementing ERP solutions in the Nordic market, industry solutions for retail, property management, logistics, legal and transport & waste management. In 2000 the company changed its name to Hands and was listed on the Oslo Stock Exchange. In 2005 Hands was unlisted, as it was acquired by the Icelandic company Kögun which later merged with Skýrr (see above). Despite changes in ownership Hands kept its Norwegian identity and acquired Nett.2.3 and Completo in 2005.\n\nIn 2012 Advania AB was born, when Skýrr from Iceland, Kerfi from Sweden and Hands from Norway merged and became a key challenger in the Scandinavian IT-market. Since then four companies have been acquired and merged with Advania, the listed Swedish IT company Caperio included.\n\nAdvania focuses on these four main business areas:\n\nAdvania offers a variety of managed services where clients can offload specific IT operations.\n\nAdvania offers solutions for IT infrastructure, integration projects, consultancy and product support. Advania has data center solutions, IT platform projects, virtualization solutions, solutions focused on identity and access, as well as development, integration, and support of both software and hardware.\n\nAdvania provides IT solutions to automate, streamline, measure, document and stimulate business and IT processes.\n\nAdvania provides a broad array of consulting services, software development, eBusiness services and infrastructure solutions for private and public bodies, local and international customer.\n"}
{"id": "6937164", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6937164", "title": "Alan Gibbs", "text": "Alan Gibbs\n\nAlan Gibbs (born 1939) is a New Zealand-born businessman, entrepreneur and art collector. After a successful business career in New Zealand, which made him one of that country's wealthiest individuals, he relocated to London in 1999. He retains strong links to New Zealand through his development of Gibbs Farm, one of the world's leading sculpture parks. He is the founder of Gibbs Amphibians, based in Detroit, Michigan, Nuneaton, UK, and Auckland, New Zealand, which pioneers high-speed amphibious vehicle technologies.\n\nAlan Gibbs was born in Christchurch, the son of Theodore Nisbet Gibbs and Elsie Gibbs. His father was an accountant, tax adviser and businessman. He was chairman of a 1951 Royal Commission on Taxation. The family moved to Wellington in 1947 and Alan attended Wadestown Primary School, Wellesley College and Wellington College. He undertook three out of four years of an engineering degree at Canterbury University, before switching to economics, completing a BA in 1961. The following year he gained an MA in Economics from Victoria University of Wellington.\n\nGibbs went to London in 1963 as Third Secretary in the New Zealand High Commission, returning to New Zealand in 1965 to work in the Prime Minister's department. He left soon after with a dream to build what he promoted as the first New Zealand car, the Anziel Nova. In New Zealand's then highly regulated economy he failed to gain the necessary import licences to build the cars, and abandoned the scheme in 1970 after a four-year battle. Gibbs then moved to Sydney for two years, where he worked as a merchant banker, returning to set up the Chase-NAB merchant bank in Auckland in 1972. After an early retirement in 1975, he established Gibbs, Saint and Co. in 1977, specialising in corporate advisory work. This later became Gibbs Securities Ltd. \nGibbs' career took off in 1979 when, with three other investors, he purchased Tappenden Motors Ltd. They liquidated it profitably over the next few years. Gibbs then gained stakes in Atlas Majestic Industries, Bendon and Ceramco, three prominent New Zealand public companies which he merged in 1986 and 1987 and that was liquidated in 1989. Meantime, in 1985 he and Trevor Farmer made a successful $114 million takeover bid for the publicly listed transport and security company Freightways Ltd. In early 1990 the Fourth Labour Government confirmed it would sell the Telecom Corporation of New Zealand. Together with merchant banker David Richwhite, Gibbs brokered the $4.25 billion winning bid for the company, which when subsequently floated became the largest company on the New Zealand Stock Exchange. As part of the deal, Gibbs became a director and he and Farmer took a 5 per cent holding in the company. Following a second round of restructuring, led by Gibbs, this holding proved very valuable.\n\nAlso in 1990 Gibbs and Farmer invested in and worked with Craig Heatley to develop Sky TV, New Zealand's first pay television company. Gibbs sold most of his New Zealand assets in the late 1990s, retaining Gibbs Farm and an interest in Viaduct Harbour Holdings, the owner of a new waterfront precinct in downtown Auckland and a property portfolio in Wellington with Andrew Wall.\n\nHaving been a member of the New Left Club at Canterbury University, Gibbs had converted to strongly-held free-market views by the late 1970s. He became a strong supporter of Roger Douglas, the Minister of Finance in the reforming Fourth Labour Government, 1984–90. Gibbs was appointed chairman of the NZ Forestry Corporation, which in 1987 corporatised the old New Zealand Forest Service. The loss-making department was restructured and transformed into a profitable State Owned Enterprise. He was also appointed chairman of the Hospital and Related Services Taskforce, with a brief to recommend reforms for the underperforming public hospital service. Their suggestions, which focused on introducing an internal market into the system, were not taken up by the Labour government but were partially implemented by the next National Government.\n\nGibbs also founded the Centre for Independent Studies in New Zealand and was an active member of the New Zealand Business Roundtable. He is a member of the Mont Pelerin Society, founded by the Austrian economist Friedrich Hayek. Gibbs was active in the establishment of ACT New Zealand, a libertarian political party that was formed in 1994. ACT won seven seats in the parliament after the first election under proportional representation in 1996, and has continued to be represented in Parliament since.\n\nGibbs is one of New Zealand's leading art collectors, and since 1991 has been establishing a sprawling sculpture park at Gibbs Farm, which is located on Kaipara Harbour on New Zealand's North Island, north of Auckland in the Rodney district.\n\nAmong the art works installed on The Farm are monumental pieces by contemporary artists including Daniel Buren, Neil Dawson, Marijke de Goey, Andy Goldsworthy, Anish Kapoor, George Rickey, Richard Serra and Bernar Venet.\n\nFrustrated by the extreme tidal nature of the Kaipara Harbour, that forms the western boundary of his farm, Gibbs began experimenting with amphibious vehicles in the early 1990s. In 1997 he began to develop the concept in Detroit. Gibbs relocated the project to the United Kingdom in 1999. He partnered with Neil Jenkins who became CEO and based the operation at Nuneaton. Over the next four years they developed the concept to the point that the Aquada, the world's first road-legal, high-speed amphibian, was shown to the public in September 2003. In June 2004 Richard Branson drove an Aquada to break the record for an amphibious crossing of the English Channel. In 2007 a new division of the business was set up in Detroit. A major R & D program has been undertaken in Auckland since 2004. Two new high-speed amphibians, the Humdinga and the Phibian, were released in Washington in 2012, and a third, the Quadski, arrived on the market in early 2013.\n\nGibbs was married to Jennifer Gore (now Dame Jenny Gibbs) for 33 years. They have three daughters, Amanda, Debbi and Emma, and one son, Thane.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29509345", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29509345", "title": "Alan Morris (advertiser)", "text": "Alan Morris (advertiser)\n\nAlan \"Mo\" Morris (1942– 1 April 2007) was an Australian advertising creative executive, a copywriter who enjoyed particular success in the 1970s and 80s. Together with his long-time business partner Allan Johnston, he formed the Australian advertising agency Mojo which enjoyed much local and some international success in the 1980s and whose name survives today as Publicis Mojo, an Australian subsidiary of the French multinational advertising and communications company holding Publicis Groupe.\n\nMorris' father Carl Morris was one of the Australian servicemen who upon return from World War II formed the Melbourne ad agency United Service Publicity - he was the agency's Production Manager. The US agency group Needham Harper Steers entered the Australian market in 1967 by taking a stake in United Service Publicity and changed its name in 1972 to USP Needham, whose lineage can be directly traced to today's Melbourne office of DDB Worldwide. Alan Morris' brother Don Morris AO is also an advertising executive and the two worked together at a number of points in their careers with Don being significantly involved in the life of the Mojo agency.\n\nMorris' first job was as a copywriter in Canada while travelling. On his return to Australia he joined Rogers Holland and Everingham and then Mullins Clarke and Ralph, where he was creative director and had a shareholding. In the mid-1970s he took to freelancing and at one point was teamed with writer Allan Johnston at Hertz Walpole in Sydney. Together they had immediate success as a team working on campaigns for Hertz Walpole's clients Meadow Lea margarine (\"You oughta be congratulated\") and Tooheys beer (\"How do you feel?\"). In 1975 started their own consultancy and continuing to work on such accounts as they grew their business. In 1979 their creative consultancy became the full-service ad agency Mojo and Meadow Lea and Tooheys amongst other clients, signed with the new shop.\n\nDuring the 1980s Mojo was the hottest creative agency in Sydney and Mo and Jo had success jointly authoring World Series Cricket's \"C'mon Aussie C'mon\" and later the Australian Tourism Commission's spot with Paul Hogan's instruction to put another \"Shrimp on the barbie.\n\nThe Mojo approach to TV advertisements used a colloquial and irreverent style, often with a catchy jingle to simple accompaniment. Contrasting against the clipped and British-imitating style of voice presenters on Australian TV up till that point, Mojo ads highlighted Australian idiom and its laconic accent. Ads such as “I’m as Australian as Ampol”, “Hit ‘em with the Old Pea Beau” (insectide), “Everybody loves Speedo”, “I Can Feel a Fourex Coming on”, “Every Amco tells a Story” (for Amco jeans) all came out of the Mojo agency in the 1980s. The use of Peter Allen's I Still Call Australia Home to promote Qantas was developed at Mojo in the late 1980s and until 2011 this campaign concept was still used by Qantas and its ad agencies.\n\nIn August 1987 Mojo was acquired by the Melbourne based publicly listed agency Monaghan Dayman Adams Limited and became MojoMDA. The resultant merged business maintained its listed status until 1989. The Mojo MDA Group had offices in London, New York, San Francisco, Hong Kong, Singapore and affiliates throughout Asia. In 1988 Advertising Age named it as International Agency of the Year.\n\nIn August 1989 the Mojo MDA Group was Australia's largest ad agency with billings of $180million and was acquired by the Los Angeles agency Chiat\\Day. The merger was unsuccessful and in 1992 Chiat/Day sold off Mojo to Foote, Cone & Belding. In later international dealings which saw FCB acquired by the Interpublic Group, the Australian Mojo offices were sold to Publicis.\n\nMorris had a successful stint at Singleton Ogilvy & Mather from the mid to late '90s. In 1999 he teamed up again with Johnston back at Hertz Walpole when Jim Walpole offered them both a shareholding and that agency was at that point renamed \"Morris Johnston Walpole\". The re-unification failed to set the advertising world on-fire and in 2002 the veterans accepted an offer for sale from the Japanese multinational communications group Hakuhodo. In 2006 he started an agency named \"Yabber\" with his brother Don and with TV personality Jamie Durie. A year later Morris lost his ongoing battle with cancer.\n\nAlan Morris was at one point married to the Australian television actress and screenwriter Judy Morris. He has a daughter Michaela Morris with Judy and sons Asher and Ronnie with his long-time wife Lissa.\n\nTogether with Johnston, Morris was acknowledged by his peers with admissions to the Halls of Fame of \"Campaign Brief\" (magazine) in 2006 and the Australian Writer and Art Directors Association in 2009. In 2009 Morris & Johnston were included in the inaugural 12 inductees to \"Ad News\" magazine's, Australian Advertising Hall of Fame.\n\nIn 2007 the Advertising Federation of Australia awarded its AFA Medallion to Mo and Jo describing the pair as \"the Lennon & McCartney of Australian advertising\".\n\n"}
{"id": "19967277", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19967277", "title": "Alta Partners", "text": "Alta Partners\n\nAlta Partners is a venture capital firm based in San Francisco which invests primarily in biotechnology and life science companies. \n\nThe company was founded in 1996 by Dr. Jean Deleage, Ph.D., who was also a founder of the venture capital firms Burr, Egan, Deleage & Co. (BEDCO) and Sofinnova, together with Guy Nohra, Marino Polestra, and Garrett Gruener, all former general partners at BEDCO. \n\nAlta Partners is actively investing out of its latest early stage fund by managing directors Dan Janney, Pete Hudson, MD, and Bob More.\n\nThe company was founded in 1996 and invests in biotechnology and life science companies. According to the company website, over the past 22 years, Alta has invested in over 150 companies, including some of the leaders in the biopharmaceuticals, medical technology, healthcare services, and information technology sectors.\n\nThe firm is no longer associated with the Boston-based venture capital firm, Alta Communications, which also traces its roots to Burr, Egan, Deleage & Co.\n\nSince 1996, Alta has raised nine venture capital funds including four funds in its Alta California Funds series, three funds in its Alta Biopharma Partners series, Alta Partners VIII, and most recently Alta Partners NextGen Fund I with $130 million of investor commitments.\n\nThe following is a summary of the venture capital funds raised by Alta as of 2018:\n\n\nThe company has several investments in Anesiva, formerly Corgentech, beginning in November 2000 and including being the lead investor in the company's initial public offering via a stake. Anesiva is involved in the development of therapeutics for pain management.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40378134", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40378134", "title": "Andrej Babiš", "text": "Andrej Babiš\n\nAndrej Babiš (; born 2 September 1954) is a Czech politician of Slovak origin who has been the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic since December 2017, and previously served as Minister of Finance and Deputy Prime Minister for the Economy from January 2013 to May 2017. Before entering politics, he was a businessman and entrepreneur.\n\nBabiš was born in Bratislava in present-day Slovakia, and moved to the Czech Republic following the Velvet Revolution. The second richest man in the Czech Republic with an estimated net worth of about $4.04 billion according to Bloomberg, he is a former CEO and sole owner of the Agrofert group, which owns two of the largest Czech newspapers, \"Mladá fronta DNES\" and \"Lidové noviny\". Babiš has led ANO 2011 since founding it in 2012 as a protest movement against established politics. He has been a member of the Chamber of Deputies (MP) since 2013. Babiš was sacked from the government by Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka on 24 May 2017 after a month-long coalition crisis triggered by allegations that Babiš avoided paying taxes as CEO of Agrofert in 2012.\n\nFollowing the 2017 legislative election, which resulted in a hung parliament with no possible coalitions, Babiš was appointed Prime Minister on 6 December 2017 and a week later formed a minority government composed of ANO party members and independents. He became the oldest and wealthiest person ever to assume the premiership, as well as the first Prime Minister in the history of the Czech Republic to be from a different party than ODS or ČSSD. On 16 January 2018, his government lost motion of confidence vote (78 MPs for while 117 against) in the Chamber of Deputies and he resigned the following day. His second cabinet, confirmed by the Chamber of Deputies on 12 July 2018, is the first government since the fall of Communism in 1989 to rely on support from the Communist Party.\n\nBabiš had been under investigation by both Czech Police and OLAF from 2015 to 2017 amid allegations that an anonymous company he controlled unlawfully received €2m subsidy from the European Union. In September 2017, he was stripped his parliamentary immunity after a police request in connection with the case and Babiš was formally charged on 9 October 2017. OLAF concluded its investigation in December 2017 stating it has found irregularities and endorsed the steps taken by the Czech Police. Due to his re-election in the 2017 election he regained his parliamentary immunity and the Chamber of Deputies voted again to lift it on 19 January 2018. As well as alleged fraud, Babiš is the subject of sustained criticism from political opponents and the media regarding a number of issues, including conflict of interest, his past role in the communist secret police, and allegations of intimidation of opponents. Despite this, Babiš remains one of the most popular politicians in the Czech Republic.\n\nBabiš was born on 2 September 1954 to a Slovak family in Bratislava, Czechoslovakia (present-day Slovakia). His father, a diplomat and member of the Communist Party of Czechoslovakia, represented Czechoslovakia during the negotiation of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) in Geneva and as a consultant at the United Nations. He is nephew of Ervin and Viera Scheibner.\n\nBabiš spent part of his childhood abroad, and was educated in Paris and Geneva. Later, he studied at a gymnasium in Bratislava and continued to the University of Economics, where he studied international trade. In 1978, after graduating, he joined the Slovak communist controlled international trade company, \"Chemapol Bratislava\", which later became \"Petrimex\". In 1985 he was appointed as the organisation's representative in Morocco. He joined the Communist Party in 1980. He has been accused of being a \"powerful agent\" for the Czechoslovak secret state security service, StB, during the 1980s, as well as being a KGB officer.\n\nBabiš returned from Morocco to Czechoslovakia in 1991, after the Velvet Revolution, and settled in the Czech Republic after the dissolution of Czechoslovakia. \n\nIn January 1993, Babiš became managing director of a newly established Petrimex subsidiary operating in the Czech Republic, Agrofert. He had suggested establishing Agrofert while he was a director at Petrimex, during which time Agrofert was recapitalised by OFI, a company of unknown ownership based in Baar, Switzerland, which took control of Agrofert from Petrimex. Petrimex later fired Babiš and sued him, unsuccessfully, for allowing the firm's stake in Agrofert to be diluted. Soon thereafter, Babiš emerged as the 100% owner of Agrofert. The source of the initial financing for Babiš's takeover of Agrofert from Petrimex was still undisclosed as of the start of 2016, although Babiš has said that the money came from his Swiss former schoolmates. \n\nBabiš gradually developed Agrofert into one of the largest companies in the country, starting as a wholesale and trading firm, but later acquiring various agricultural, food processing, and chemical companies. In 2011 Agrofert Holding consisted of more than 230 companies, mainly in the Czech Republic, Slovakia, and Germany. It is the fourth largest company in the Czech Republic by revenue, exceeding CZK 117 billion. The history of Agrofert, detailed in a book by the journalist Tomáš Pergler, is closely linked to its control of the Czech petrochemicals industry. One reviewer of the book said the account \"captures much of what has led Czechs to the conviction that they live in a corrupted, clientist country – and (paradoxically) then to vote for the ANO movement.\" When Babiš entered politics he resigned as CEO, but remained sole owner until February 2017, when he was legally obliged to put his companies in trust in order to remain as Minister of Finance.\n\nWhile Babiš's business activities initially focused mainly on agriculture, he later acquired a large empire of media companies. In 2013, Agrofert purchased the company MAFRA, publisher of two of the biggest Czech newspapers, \"Lidové noviny\" and \"Mladá fronta DNES\", and operator of the Óčko television company. Agrofert also owns Radio Impuls, the most listened to radio station in the Czech Republic (as of late 2014). These acquisitions have led critics to question Babis's political motives, amid accusations that he was amassing too much power, and that the media outlets he controls publish sympathetic coverage of him.\n\nIn 2011, Babiš founded his party, ANO 2011, \"to fight corruption and other ills in the country's political system\". The party contested the legislative elections in October 2013 and emerged as the second largest party, with 47 seats (of 200) in the Chamber of Deputies. The American political consulting firm, Penn Schoen Berland, was credited with the party's successful result.\n\nIn the subsequent coalition government, formed of the Social Democrats, ANO, and the Christian Democrats, Babiš served as the Minister of Finance. During his tenure in this role, Babiš introduced controversial policies such as electronic registration of sales, known as EET, proposed reverse charging of value-added tax, and VAT control statement for companies. His critics claimed he was tightening regulations on small and medium-sized enterprises and sole proprietorship while turning a blind eye to big corporations, to the benefit of his own Agrofert holding. During this time he stated many times that he would like to be the next Prime Minister of the Czech Republic if ANO 2011 led the government.\n\nIn May 2015, after the government's decision to extend reduced taxation of biofuels (a segment of the fuel market controlled significantly by companies in the Agrofert portfolio), the opposition initiated a vote of no confidence against the cabinet. On 26 May 2015 while speaking to the Chamber of Deputies, Babiš said that he was forced to enter politics because of \"corrupted opposition\" (referring to the ODS) that \"created him\". In November 2016, Babiš criticized alleged links among CEFC China Energy, the Czech Social Democratic Party, and Czech Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka, saying that CEFC's focus on private Czech companies \"brings no yield to the Czech Republic.\"\n\nIn September 2015, deputy prime minister Babiš called for NATO intervention against human trafficking in the Mediterranean. After talks on the migrant crisis with NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg, Babiš said that \"NATO is not interested in refugees, although Turkey, a NATO member, is their entrance gate to Europe and smugglers operate on Turkish territory\".\n\nBabiš rejected the European Union's refugee quotas, saying: \"I will not accept refugee quotas [for the Czech Republic]. ... We must react to the needs and fears of the citizens of our country. We must guarantee the security of Czech citizens. Even if we are punished by sanctions.\" After the 2016 Berlin attack he said that \"unfortunately... [Angela Merkel's open-door migration] policy is responsible for this dreadful act. It was she who let migrants enter Germany and the whole of Europe in uncontrolled waves, without papers, therefore without knowing who they really are.\"\n\nAndrej Babiš was sacked from the government by Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka on 24 May 2017 after a month-long coalition crisis triggered by allegations that Babiš avoided paying taxes as CEO of Agrofert in 2012.\n\nFollowing the 2017 election to the Chamber of Deputies, in which ANO 2011 won with 29% of the vote, and won 78 out of 200 seats, President Miloš Zeman asked Babiš to form a government. The Civic Democratic Party and other parties refused to join a coalition government with Babis, citing the ongoing criminal investigation into alleged EU subsidy fraud and, as a result, on 27 October 2017 Babiš announced that he would try to form a minority government. Freedom and Direct Democracy (SPD) and the Communist Party voiced their willingness to join the government, but were refused by Babiš.\n\nOn 6 December 2017, Babiš was appointed the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic. He assumed the office on 13 December 2017, when his government took full control of the executive government. He is the only incumbent head of government to be charged with a crime by the Czech police and prosecutor, as well as both the oldest and the wealthiest Prime Minister in the country's history, and the first Prime Minister from a party other than ODS and ČSSD. \n\nDuring his first days in office, he attended the European Council summit dealing with fiscal responsibilities, Brexit and migration, and spoke on the phone with new Polish Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki regarding the invocation of the Article 7 by the European Commission. His government carried out personnel changes at the ministries, Czech Railways and the Railway Infrastructure Administration.\n\nOn 16 January 2018, Babiš's cabinet lost a vote of no confidence by 117 votes to 78.\n\nIn February 2018, his cabinet approved the European Fiscal Compact and sent it to the Chamber of Deputies for further approval. They also proposed changes to the Civil Service Act, which has been the subject of controversy since it was passed in 2015 by Bohuslav Sobotka's government, in which Babiš served as Minister of Finance.\nAfter losing the confidence vote, Babiš's administration continued to carry out personnel changes, meeting with criticism from the opposition. Minister of Health Adam Vojtěch fired Svatopluk Němeček, a former Minister and head of the University Hospital in Ostrava, as well as the director of the Bulovka Hospital. Minister of Industry and Trade Tomáš Hüner and Minister of Interior Lubomír Metnar fired the heads of CzechInvest and Czech Post, respectively.\n\nIn March 2018, Babiš ordered three Russian diplomats to leave the country in a show of solidarity with the United Kingdom after a former Russian double agent Sergei Skripal was poisoned in Salisbury.\n\nIn June 2018, German Chancellor Angela Merkel said that there had been \"no moral or political justification\" for the post-war expulsion of ethnic Germans from Czechoslovakia. Babiš responded: \"I reject this characterisation – especially when we recall the horrors of Heydrich, Lidice, Ležáky and the killing of our paratroopers. I have the feeling that there is some internal political struggle in Germany now, and it is very unfortunate that old wounds are opening because of it.\"\n\nIn the summer of 2018, Babiš reached a coalition agreement with the Social Democrats. The new cabinet took office after winning a confidence vote on 12 July 2018, with support from the Communist Party.\n\nAccording to the documents of the National Memory Institute in Slovakia, Babiš collaborated with the State Security Police (StB) of communist Czechoslovakia, under the code name agent Bureš. He denies the accusations, and in 2012 sued the institute for defamation. In January 2018, the Bratislava regional court ruled definitively that Babiš was an StB agent. This final court case may not be appealed.\n\nTwelve unrelated cases investigated by StB from 1982 to 1985 were associated with the code name Bureš, according to the Slovak National Memory Institute. Babiš appeared once at the court during the process. The District Court in Bratislava issued a ruling on 26 June 2014 that there was insufficient evidence to put Andrej Babiš on a list of intentional cooperators with StB. The decision was criticised in the Slovak press, and the National Memory Institute announced it would appeal to a higher court. On 30 June 2015, Bratislava's County Court upheld the verdict, but in October 2017 the Slovak Constitutional Court upheld the National Memorial Institute's appeal, annulling the earlier court decisions and finding that Babiš had been an agent of the former communist secret police. \n\nBabiš has also been accused of using his StB background and Communist Party connections to enrich himself. Babiš has denied that he was a StB collaborator, but his close associates include Czech lawyer Libor Široký, now chairman of Agrofert's supervisory board, who is reportedly also a former member of one of the StB units most closely linked to the Soviet KGB. Critics who accuse him of KGB connections also point to his alleged support for the 2014 Russian annexation of Crimea, and his opposition to international sanctions against Russia. When a Lebanese arms dealer with alleged Russian connections was released by Czech authorities instead of being extradited to the United States, and it was revealed that every official involved in the release was an ANO party member or was associated with Babis, he was again accused of having an allegiance to Russia. Opposition MP Miroslav Kalousek said that it no longer mattered what information the Slovak National Memory Institute had about Babiš, because his behaviour as a politician had proven his StB training.\n\nIn March 2015, Babiš condemned Russia's annexation of Crimea. In October 2015 Anne Applebaum, a Pulitzer Prize-winning journalist specializing in Russian and Eastern European affairs, listed Babiš among several Eastern European leaders who she considered to be agents of influence for Putin's Russia. Writing in \"The Washington Post\", she suggested that old labels from Soviet Communist days, such as \"useful idiots\" and \"fellow travelers\", were no longer adequate to describe Babis and the other figures she had named. To illustrate her point, she listed several quotes from each leader that sounded very similar to each other and to the arguments broadcast at the same time by official Russian news sources.\n\nBabiš responded to Applebaum with a letter to \"The Washington Post\" stating that he had no friends in Russia and was an American ally. US journalist Gabriel Meyr challenged those claims by citing three examples of actions Babiš has taken that have furthered Russian policy goals, such as a Czech government loan guarantee to a Russian company with a record of defaults, owned by a close friend of President Putin. Another example was the Czech Finance Ministry's continued racing of the thoroughbred horses owned by Chechen President Ramzan Kadyrov, a close ally of Putin, even though he is under international sanctions. The final example was that Babis had disclosed in 2007 that Agrofert was negotiating to purchase gas from the Czech subsidiary of Gazprom instead of its German supplier.\n\nIn February 2016, on the day commemorating the Communist takeover in 1948, hundreds of protesters opposed to Babiš gathered in Wenceslas Square to protest that Babiš was advancing an agenda that would infringe Czech freedoms, described by leaders of the protest as a quiet revolution, happening in gradual steps.\n\nBabiš was accused of illegally obtaining €2 million in EU subsidies designated for small businesses by concealing his ownership of a farm and a convention center called \"Storks Nest\". Czech police requested that the Lower House lift his parliamentary immunity on two occasions, in September and November 2017. In both cases the Lower House lifted the immunity and the police have initiated criminal proceedings. He is accused of the crime of alleged fraud (§212,Criminal Code, 2009) and of wilful damage to the financial interests of the European Union (§ 260, Criminal Code, 2009) in the criminal conspiracy (§ 89, Art.17, Crime Code (the Czechoslovakian Criminal Code, 1961).\n\nThis case was investigated by the European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF). OLAF's final report was delivered to the Czech officers of the Ministry of Finance on 27 December 2017. Journalist Sabina Slonková published a report of the results on the website Neovlivni.cz on 3 January 2018, concluding that OLAF's final report confirmed the results of the investigation by the Czech Police and prosecutors that the fraud was planned from the beginning. The complete text of the final report translated into Czech was published on the website aktualne.cz on 11 January 2018, with a commentary by Vladimir Piskacek, one of the directors of the Economia AS media company, which publishes \"Hospodářské noviny\", defending the right to publish information openly.\n\nIn November 2018, Seznam News television aired an interview with Babiš' son Andrej Babiš Junior (born 1982) in which he alleged he was kidnapped by his father's associate in order to thwart corruption inquiry regarding Stork's Nest Farm. Babiš Junior was quoted as saying he had been held in Crimea, Kaliningrad, Moscow and Kryvyi Rih in Ukraine to stop him from giving statement to the police about his involvement in the case. Prime Minister Babiš denied the kidnapping but admitted that his son entered Crimea, among others, while saying that his son suffers from schizophrenia.\n\nBabiš has been linked closely to President Miloš Zeman since at least 2001, when Zeman was Prime Minister, and his business interests are alleged to have benefited from the association. In 2001, Zeman oversaw the sale of Unipetrol, a state-owned chemical company, to Babiš. Babiš pulled out of the sale, but later oversaw the sale of the firm to a Polish company. According to Polish reports, the sale was accompanied by substantial bribery, although Babis denies any bribes were paid. The Unipetrol deal is cited often as evidence of a strong partnership between Babiš and Zeman that persists.\n\nBabis has been criticized by media and opposition politicians for his alleged conflict of interest, as the Minister of Finance and the owner of companies subsidized by EU funding programmes. During a visit to the Czech Republic in March 2014, the German Member of the European Parliament Ingeborg Gräßle expressed concern that someone with such a personal financial interest simultaneously being a leading representative of a state, could not guarantee to the EU that its resources are properly distributed. A 2014 article in the political newspaper \"Politico\" commented that \"the Czech Republic is now a paradox: a society disgusted with corruption has given huge power to a man whose business interests amount to the biggest conflict of interest in the country’s post-1989 history.\"\n\nIn May 2015, Babis's alleged financial irregularities and accusations from the public and the opposition that he had promoted his companies in government procurements triggered a vote of no confidence against the Bohuslav Sobotka's government, called by the opposition parties ODS, TOP 09, and Dawn. The motion was defeated by 47-105.\n\nOn 5 June 2015, a retired senior American intelligence officer published an opinion article using Babiš as an example of a corrupt politician with conflicts of interest and probable ties to Russia. In the article, he speculated whether United States government investigations into bribery and corruption in FIFA may herald more aggressive investigation of other corrupt practices. The article mentioned that several investigations had been launched by a team of police and prosecutor, which were questionable cases that did not hold up in court.\n\nBabiš has a reputation for surrounding himself with senior police officers, security agents, and former Communist informers.\n\nIn June 2015, Babiš provoked controversy when a member of parliament, Ladislav Šincl of the Social Democrats (ČSSD), criticised a change in policy from the Finance Ministry on a bill reducing commissions for life insurance mediators in the Chamber of Deputies, and alleged that the benefits to Babiš's business interests may be the cause of the change. On 17 June 2015, Babiš met with Šincl and accused him of corruption and taking bribes from businessman and senator Ivo Valenta, owner of the Synot gambling group. According to witnesses, Babiš brought to the meeting a folder marked with a yellow note labelled \"Šincl\", and started shouting at Šincl that he knew Šincl took bribes from Valenta and was corrupt. He later moved onto his family and Šincl's former jobs.\n\nOn 18 June 2015, Babiš admitted he had a folder with Šincl's name, but denied intimidation, saying, \"It's not the materials. It's articles from the media. Do the media write lies? I just showed what the media writes, I think they do their job well. When I go to a meeting, I prepare myself so I know who I am dealing with\". Babiš's coalition partners ČSSD (Šincl's party) and KDU-ČSL demanded an apology, but Babiš refused, saying that Šincl had lied about him in the Parliament. Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka, also the chairman of ČSSD, called a coalition meeting on the same day.\n\nŠincl described Babiš' tactic, of reading potentially damaging facts about him from a file marked with his name, was reminiscent of StB tactics. Miroslav Kalousek, the first deputy chairman of the opposition party TOP09, also accused Babiš of using StB practices, which Babiš denied.\n\nOn 1 May 2017, Twitter account @skupinasuman posted a tape of Babiš's private conversations with an unknown number of people, in which he labelled Minister of Foreign Affairs Lubomír Zaorálek as an \"idiot\" and attacked investigative journalist Sabina Slonková, among others. On 3 May 2017, a video on YouTube alleged that Andrej Babiš had interfered with the editorial independence of \"Mladá fronta DNES\", the nation's largest quality newspaper by circulation, owned by Babis's trust. In conversation with MF Dnes journalist Marek Přibil he discusses the date of publication of damaging stories about Minister of Interior Milan Chovanec and Minister of Health Miloslav Ludvík. On the tape, Babiš is recorded instructing Přibil to tell František Nachtigall, the director of strategic development, about when and how to publish the stories.\n\nOn 1 September 2016, while visiting Varnsdorf, a city with large Romani population, Babiš said: \"What those idiots [journalists] write in newspapers, that the camp in Lety was a concentration camp, that is a lie, it was a labor camp, people who didn't work ended up there\". Babiš's comments were heavily criticized by both coalition partners and opposition MPs calling on him to resign. Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka condemned the remarks on Facebook, saying that \"between populism and extremism there is a thin line and Babiš crossed it\" and asked him to \"properly apologize and visit Lety to learn about history of our state.\"\n\nMinister for Human Rights and Equal Opportunities Jiří Dienstbier called for Babiš to step down as Finance Minister and First Deputy Prime Minister. The leaders of both opposition parties, Petr Fiala from ODS and Miroslav Kalousek from TOP 09 also called for Babiš to step down.\n\n\"Foreign Policy\" magazine gave Babis the nickname \"Babisconi\", a portmaneau of his surname and the surname of former Italian Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi, the subject of numerous political and financial scandals. In response, Babiš threatened to sue the magazine, but has never done so.\n\nIn August 2015, the Swiss weekly \"L'Hebdo\" published an article entitled: \"Why do Czech Oligarchs Buy Unprofitable Media Outlets?\" examining the purchase of media companies by several Czech business people, and also their connections with Francophone Switzerland. The article focused much of its attention on Babiš, and his purchase of media outlets in the Czech Republic. The author pointed out that Babiš had claimed to invest in \"Mladá fronta DNES\" only for profit, but had given no answer when told it was an unprofitable investment, and went on to accuse journalists at Babis's newspapers of doing his work.\n\nWriting in \"Politico\", Adam Drda expressed the view that Andrej Babis is associated with the decline of Czech democracy more than any other single person.\nAndrej Babiš was a winner of the Green Pearl prize for the anti-ecological comment of the year 2013:\n\"We all gave a shit about democracy once. How to explain that regarding the construction of a new highway, (someone has the right to talk about) a badger, an ecological terrorist and that each mayor wants an exit (to his town).\"\n\nBabiš' first wife was physician Beata (later Beatrice) Adamičová, a schoolmate, who he married in the 1970s. They had two children, Adriana (born 1979) and Andrej (born 1982), both of whom were involved in the Stork's Nest case. Since 2007 Adriana has been married to Agrofert manager Martin Bobek. \n\nSince the 1990s Babiš has lived with his former secretary Monika Herodesová (born 1974), with whom he has two children, Vivien and Frederik. Both Monika and her brother Martin Herodes were also involved in the Stork's Nest case. \n\nIn 2013 Monika changed her surname to Babišová, and they married in 2017.\n\n"}
{"id": "555489", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=555489", "title": "Andrew Cuomo", "text": "Andrew Cuomo\n\nAndrew Mark Cuomo (; born December 6, 1957) is an American politician, author and lawyer serving as the 56th and current Governor of New York since 2011. A member of the Democratic Party, he was elected to the same position his father, Mario Cuomo, held for three terms.\n\nBorn in New York City, Cuomo is a graduate of Fordham University and Albany Law School of Union University, New York. He began his career working as the campaign manager for his father, then as an assistant district attorney in New York City before entering private law practice. He founded Housing Enterprise for the Less Privileged (HELP USA) and was appointed chair of the New York City Homeless Commission, a position he held from 1990 to 1993.\n\nIn 1993, Cuomo joined the Clinton Administration as Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development in the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development. From 1997 to 2001, he served as the U.S. Secretary of Housing and Urban Development.\n\nIn 2006, Cuomo was elected Attorney General of New York. In May 2010, Cuomo announced he was running for governor in the 2010 election, and he won with 63 percent of the vote. Cuomo has emerged as one of the United States' most progressive governors; during his first term, New York legalized same-sex marriage and enacted gun control legislation. In 2014, he was elected to a second term with 54 percent of the vote. In 2018, he was elected for a third term with 58% of the vote.\nCuomo was born in the Queens borough of New York City, the elder son born to lawyer and later governor of New York, Mario Cuomo and Matilda (née Raffa). His parents were both of Italian descent; his paternal grandparents were from Nocera Inferiore and Tramonti in South Italy, while his maternal grandparents were both from Sicily (his grandfather from Messina). His younger brother, Chris Cuomo, is a CNN journalist.\n\nHe graduated from St. Gerard Majella's School in 1971 and Archbishop Molloy High School in 1975. He received a B.A. from Fordham University in 1979, and a J.D. from Albany Law School in 1982.\n\nDuring his father's 1982 campaign for Governor, Cuomo was campaign manager, and then joined the Governor's staff as one of his father's top policy advisors and sometime-Albany roommate, earning $1 a year.\n\nFrom 1984 to 1985, Cuomo was a New York assistant district attorney, and briefly worked at the law firm of Blutrich, Falcone & Miller. He founded Housing Enterprise for the Less Privileged (HELP) in 1986 and left his law firm to run HELP full-time in 1988. From 1990 to 1993, during the administration of New York City mayor, David Dinkins, Cuomo was chair of the New York City Homeless Commission, which was charged with developing policies to address the homeless issue in the city and developing more housing options.\n\nAndrew Cuomo was appointed to the Department of Housing and Urban Development as Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development in 1993, a member of President Bill Clinton's administration. After the departure of Secretary Henry Cisneros at the end of Clinton's first term under the cloud of an FBI investigation, Cuomo was unanimously confirmed by the United States Senate to succeed him as Secretary of HUD. Cuomo served as Secretary from January 1997 until the Clinton administration ended in 2001.\n\nIn 2000, Cuomo led HUD efforts to negotiate an agreement with the United States' largest handgun manufacturer, Smith & Wesson, that required Smith & Wesson to change the design, distribution and marketing of guns to make them safer and to help keep them out of the hands of children and criminals. Budgets enacted during his term contained initiatives to increase the supply of affordable housing and home ownership, and to create jobs and economic development. These included new rental assistance subsidies, reforms to integrate public housing, higher limits on mortgages insured by the Federal Housing Administration, a crackdown on housing discrimination, expanded programs to help homeless people get housing and jobs, and creation of new Empowerment Zones.\nDuring Cuomo's tenure as HUD Secretary, he called for an increase in home ownership. He also pushed government-sponsored lenders Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to buy more home loans issued to poor homeowners, in an attempt to end discrimination against minorities. Some believe that this helped lead to the recent subprime mortgage crisis. Edward J. Pinto, former chief credit officer at Fannie Mae, said \"they should have known the risks were large. Cuomo was pushing mortgage bankers to make loans and basically saying you have to offer a loan to everybody.\" But others disagree with the assessment that Cuomo caused the crisis. Dean Baker, co-director of the Center for Economic and Policy Research, said Cuomo \"was a contributor in terms of him being a cheerleader, but I don't think we can pin too much blame on him.\"\n\nAccording to libertarian author and critic James Bovard, Cuomo was obsessed with changing HUD's image, as Cuomo declared, \"The PR is the important thing I do ... Eighty percent of the battle is communications.\" He championed a new program called Community Builders, created without appropriation by Congress, for 800 new HUD employees with computers to be paid as much as $100,000. In a June 16, 1999, speech, Cuomo declared that one purpose of the program was to fight against HUD's abolition. In August 1999, Community Builders distributed a letter to community groups to fight against proposed tax cuts. One HUD official declared that Community Builders were seen as \"Democratic ward heelers who act as a pipeline between Democratic city officials, party leaders, and the administration and the Democratic National Committee.\" In 1998, Clinton-appointed HUD Inspector General Susan Gaffney testified to a Senate committee that she was the victim of \"'escalating' attacks on her office by Cuomo and 'his key aides,' including cooked-up charges of racism, insubordination, malfeasance, and general dirty-dealing.\" In 1999, Gaffney's office concluded that \"most (15 out of 19) Community Builders' goals were activities rather than actual accomplishments.\" and that Cuomo's initiatives \"had a crippling effect on many of HUD's ongoing operations.\"\n\nCuomo first ran for the Democratic nomination for Governor of New York in 2002. He was initially the favorite for nomination and led in fund-raising and polls, but his campaign took serious damage after a gaffe when Cuomo said (in reference to the aftermath of the September 11 attacks) \"Pataki stood behind the leader. He held the leader's coat. He was a great assistant to the leader. But he was not a leader. Cream rises to the top, and Rudy Giuliani rose to the top.\" His remarks were widely derided; even his father, former Governor Mario Cuomo, later admitted it was a blunder.\n\nOn the eve of the state convention, Cuomo withdrew from consideration after concluding that he had little chance of support as opposed to the favored party candidate, State Comptroller Carl McCall. McCall went on to lose the general election to George Pataki.\n\nCuomo declared his candidacy for the Democratic nomination for New York State Attorney General in 2006, and on May 30, 2006, captured the Democratic Party's endorsement, receiving 65% of the delegates. Though Cuomo won the endorsement, former New York City Public Advocate Mark J. Green, two-time candidate for lieutenant governor Charlie King, also earned places on the Democratic ballot. King dropped out of the race before the primary and endorsed Cuomo.\n\nCuomo won the primary with a majority of the vote, defeating his nearest opponent by over 20%. Clinching the Democratic party nomination was considered a significant rebound following his unsuccessful and unpopular 2002 gubernatorial campaign and at the nominating convention, June O'Neill, the Democratic chairwoman of St. Lawrence County, called him \"New York's own Comeback Kid.\" He won the general election against the Republican nominee, former Westchester District attorney Jeanine Pirro on November 7, 2006, winning 58% of the vote.\n\nOn July 23, 2007, Cuomo's office admonished the Spitzer administration for ordering the State Police to keep special records of then-Senate majority leader Joseph Bruno's whereabouts when he traveled with police escorts in New York City. At the discretion of top officials of the Spitzer administration, the New York State Police created documents meant to cause political damage to Bruno. Spitzer responded by accepting responsibility and issuing an apology to Bruno.\n\nIn 2007, Cuomo was active in a high-profile investigation into lending practices and anti-competitive relationships between student lenders and universities. Specifically, many universities steered student borrowers to a \"preferred lender,\" which resulted in the borrowers' incurring higher interest rates. This led to changes in lending policy at many major American universities. Many universities also rebated millions of dollars in fees back to affected borrowers.\n\nOn June 10, 2008, Cuomo announced that three major Internet service providers (Verizon Communications, Time Warner Cable, and Sprint) would \"shut down major sources of online child pornography\" by no longer hosting many Usenet groups. Time Warner Cable ceased offering Usenet altogether, Sprint ended access to the 18,408 newsgroups in the alt.* hierarchy, and Verizon limited its Usenet offerings to the approximately 3,000 Big 8 newsgroups. The move came after Cuomo's office located 88 different newsgroups to which child pornography had been posted.\n\nIn 2008, Cuomo said of the Democratic Party candidate Barack Obama, who was running against Hillary Clinton, the candidate Cuomo supported: \"You can't shuck and jive at a press conference.\" Cuomo received criticism from some for his use of the phrase. Roland Martin of CNN said that \"'shuckin' and jivin'' have long been words used as a negative assessment of African Americans, along the lines of a 'foot-shufflin' Negro.'\"\n\nCuomo investigated a corruption scandal, \"fraudulent scheme to extract kickbacks\", which involved New York investigators, the Securities and Exchange Commission, and attorneys general in dozens of states.\n\nAlso in 2009, Cuomo launched a suit against the United Homeless Organization, a New York charity. He charged that the majority of the group's income was not used to provide services to the homeless, but was diverted to the founders for unrelated personal expenses. In 2010, Judge Barbara R. Kapnick granted the judgement and forced the group to disband.\n\nAfter Hillary Clinton became President Obama's choice for U.S. Secretary of State, then-New York governor David Paterson was charged with appointing a temporary replacement until a special election. Cuomo was seen as a leading contender for this appointment. Caroline Kennedy (also the first cousin of Cuomo's ex-wife) was another leading contender, but withdrew for personal reasons two days before Paterson was set to announce his choice, leaving Cuomo and U.S. Representative Kirsten Gillibrand as the most likely appointees. On January 23, Paterson announced he would appoint Gillibrand to the U.S. Senate.\n\nOn September 18, 2009, advisors to President Barack Obama informed Governor David Paterson that the President believed he should withdraw his 2010 gubernatorial candidacy, stepping aside for \"popular Attorney General Andrew Cuomo.\" On January 23, 2010, the New York \"Daily News\" reported that Cuomo would announce plans for a gubernatorial campaign at the end of March. Later reports indicated Cuomo would announce his gubernatorial campaign coinciding with the state Democratic Convention in late May. On May 22, 2010, Cuomo announced his run for governor in a video posted to his campaign website. Cuomo announced his choice for lieutenant governor on May 26, 2010: Mayor of Rochester, Robert Duffy.\n\nIn the November 2, 2010, general election, Cuomo faced Republican Carl Paladino, a Buffalo-based businessman who had been heavily supported by the Tea Party movement. Cuomo won the election for governor by a landslide, winning 62.6% of the vote. Paladino performed strongly in his native Buffalo area, while Cuomo performed well in the Eastern part of the state as well as downstate.\n\nIn addition to the parties fielding candidates, New York's electoral fusion laws allow parties to cross-endorse candidates. The Independence Party and Working Families Party cross-endorsed Andrew Cuomo, while the Conservative Party and Taxpayers Party cross-endorsed Carl Paladino. The Independence Party line received 146,648 votes (5.0% of Cuomo's total, and 3.2% of the statewide total) and the Working Families line received 154,853 votes (5.3% and 3.4%), with the Democratic line receiving the remaining 2,610,220 votes (89.6% and 56.5%). The Conservative line received 232,281 votes (15.0% of Paladino's total, and 5.0% of the statewide total) and the Taxpayers line received 25,821 votes (1.5% and 0.6%), with the Republican line receiving the remaining 1,290,082 votes (83.3% and 27.1%).\n\nCuomo sought reelection in 2014, with former U.S. Representative Kathy Hochul as his new running mate. On March 5, 2014, Westchester County Executive Rob Astorino announced that he would run on the Republican ticket against Cuomo for governor. Law professors Zephyr Teachout and Tim Wu challenged the Cuomo–Hochul ticket in the Democratic primary election—capturing 34% of the vote on the gubernatorial line (Wu drew 40.1% as lieutenant governor). On November 4, 2014, Cuomo was re-elected for a second term with 54% of the vote, while Astorino received 40.6% of the vote.\n\nDespite a low voter turnout, Cuomo won by a comfortable margin; however, his margin of victory was smaller than it had been in his 2010 victory. Astorino won most of upstate New York, but was overwhelmed in New York City. Cuomo was sworn in for second term as Governor. \n\nCuomo was challenged in the primary from the left by actress-and-activist Cynthia Nixon. She criticized him as having failed to fix the New York City subway, protect undocumented immigrants, legalize recreational marijuana, or create a Single Payer healthcare system When debating Nixon, Cuomo countered her argument on the subways by pointing out that the system is owned by New York City, though past administrations agree it is the governor's role. An analysis conducted by New York City Comptroller Scott Stringer revealed that New York City pays for 70 percent of subway repair costs.\n\nIn the primary, with 93% of precincts reporting, Cuomo gained 65% of the vote to Nixon's 35%.\n\nCuomo took the gubernatorial oath of office at 12:01 a.m. on January 1, 2011, succeeding David Paterson. During his first year as governor, Cuomo worked to pass an on-time budget that cut spending without raising taxes, made a new deal with a large state-employee union, signed ethics reform legislation, passed a property tax cap, worked to enact a same-sex marriage bill with bipartisan support, and restructured New York's tax code. There was media speculation about a 2016 presidential run.\n\nHis approach was described by the press as \"muscular\". Tom Libous, the Republican State Senate deputy majority leader, said, in 2013, \"When I share something he doesn't like, he gets very quiet. He stares at you.\"\n\nFor his 2018 re-election bid, Cuomo accepted being on top of the ballot line for the Independence Party, a list that featured numerous Republicans, including ardent Trump supporters. Cuomo's presence on the top of the ballot line may boost the vote shares of the Republicans on the list.\n\nIn an August 15, 2018, anti-sex trafficking bill-signing event, Cuomo said: \"We're not gonna make America great again. It was never that great. We have not reached greatness. We will reach greatness when every American is fully engaged.\" The assembled audience of Cuomo's supporters booed.\n\nIn September 2016, a former aide and close friend of Cuomo, Joseph Percoco, was indicted as part of a bribery investigation into the Buffalo Billion. Todd Howe, a lobbyist and former Cuomo aide was also indicted, along with several developers who were major donors to Cuomo and other state politicians. Cuomo was not accused of wrongdoing. In March 2018, a federal jury in Manhattan convicted Percoco on felony charges of solicitation of bribes and honest services fraud for over $315,000 in bribes he took from two people seeking official favors on behalf of an energy company, Competitive Power Ventures Inc. He faces 50 years in prison. Prosecutors framed Percoco as Cuomo's \"right-hand man.\" Following Percoco's conviction, however, Cuomo released a statement where declared that he would respect the jury's verdict and that \"there is no tolerance for any violation of the public trust.\"\n\nIn 2014, Politico reported that Cuomo had been actively involved in the formation of the Independent Democratic Conference three years earlier, which gave control of the State Senate to Republicans. He has been accused of failing to bridge the rift between the IDC and the Democratic caucus in the Senate despite being able to.\n\nIn July 2014, it was reported that the Moreland Commission, a committee established by Cuomo to root out corruption in politics, was directed away from investigations that could be politically damaging. Cuomo later abruptly and controversially disbanded the Commission. Federal prosecutors in Manhattan launched an inquiry into Cuomo's dealings with the anticorruption panel and concluded that \"after a thorough investigation,\" there was \"insufficient evidence to prove a federal crime.\"\n\nIn January 2014, Cuomo announced the introduction of restrictive measures to make medical marijuana available to 20 designated hospitals for the treatment of cancer and glaucoma. Later in July, New York became the 23rd state to allow the medical use of marijuana, as the Governor signed the Compassionate Care Act, not without drawing the criticism of legalization activists, though.\n\nIn August 2017, the Cuomo administration awarded more than $7 million - financed with money from large bank settlements - in grants to New York colleges to offer courses to New York prisoners. In January 2018, Cuomo proposed reforms that would \"reduce delays during trials, ban asset seizures in cases where there has been no conviction and make it easier for former convicts to get a job after leaving prison.\" He also called for an end to cash bail for minor crimes.\n\nUnder Cuomo's tenure, he granted commutations to fewer prisoners than many previous Republican and Democratic New York governors. Cuomo commuted a total of nine sentences. Cuomo pardoned 140 adults who were convicted of nonviolent felonies as 16- and 17-year-olds, but had served their sentences. He pardoned 18 others who had served their sentences for nonviolent felonies but were exposed to deportation due to their criminal record.\n\nOn January 15, 2013, Cuomo signed into law the first state gun control bill to pass after the December 14, 2012, Sandy Hook Elementary School shooting in neighboring Connecticut. The NY SAFE Act was described as the toughest gun control law in the United States. The act came under criticism, and the National Rifle Association called it draconian. The New York State Sheriffs' Association issued a statement supporting tougher penalties for illegal use of firearms, but criticizing several aspects of the legislation, including a magazine limit of seven rounds and a \"too broad\" definition of assault weapons.\n\nOn July 5, 2013, Cuomo signed an amendment to the NY SAFE Act that exempts retired police officers from some of the act's ownership restrictions.\n\nAfter Hurricane Sandy in October 2012, Cuomo allowed New York voters, via a specific provision aimed at accommodating those displaced, to cast provisional ballots for the 2012 election anywhere in New York state. He also appointed a commission to examine the responses of New York utilities to damage caused by the storm.\n\nControversy ensued when the Cuomo administration used $140 million, including $40 million of federal disaster relief funds, to pay for the broadcast of national TV ads promoting \"New New York\" slogans outside New York in an attempt to attract new business investment to the state. Many have been critical of the effort, including former New York governor Eliot Spitzer, who called the ads \"fluff\" and \"a waste of taxpayer money\".\n\nIn June 2012, the Cuomo administration said it was considering lifting a state ban on the practice of hydraulic fracturing (also known as \"fracking\") to stimulate the economy in upstate New York. But critics said that fracking in Upstate New York could contaminate the water supply of New York City, New Jersey and parts of Pennsylvania. Following a long-awaited study started years earlier, New York State health officials cited \"significant public health risks\" associated with fracking, and on December 17, 2014, the Cuomo administration announced a ban of hydraulic fracturing in New York State.\n\nIn June 2017, after a series of subway disasters, Cuomo declared a \"state of emergency\" for the New York City Subway system. According to \"The New York Times\", a series of New York City mayors and New York governors, including Cuomo, were partly at fault for the worsening quality of the subway system and inflated construction costs. Under the Cuomo administration, the Metropolitan Transportation Authority repeatedly diverted tax revenues earmarked for the subways, paid for services that there was no need for and spent on subway projects that did not boost service or reliability. As a result, the MTA was saddled with debt and could not undertake investments into overhauling outdated and inefficient subway infrastructure. Cuomo also directed the MTA to spend on projects that the heads of the MTA did not consider to be priorities. One reason why the New York City subway system is so expensive is due to exorbitant labor costs; according to several M.T.A. officials who were involved in negotiating labor contracts, Cuomo pressured the MTA to accept labor union contracts that were extremely favorable to workers. \"The New York Times\" noted that Cuomo was closely aligned with the union in question and had received $165,000 in campaign contributions from the union.\n\n\"The New York Times\" reported, \"Cuomo had steered clear of the M.T.A. during his first years in office, but in his second term he took an intense interest. He placed aides within the organization and, in an unusual move, made some report directly to him. He badgered transit leaders about the construction of the Second Avenue subway on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. And over the objections of some board members, he canceled several M.T.A. capital projects to make room for his own priorities. According to high-ranking current and former M.T.A. officials, the moves interfered with the authority's plans to address the rising delays.\"\n\nOn April 18, 2017, Cuomo signed the New York State 2018 fiscal year budget. It included the Excelsior Scholarship, a provision that families making less than $125,000 in 2019 could have free tuition at all SUNY and CUNY universities, though some education experts including Sara Goldrick-Rab say it won't help the poorest students and that the requirement that recipients live and work in New York after graduating is counter-productive.\n\nOn July 16, 2011, Cuomo finalized a five-year deal with the Public Employees Federation to end pay raises, implement furlough days, and require additional contributions to health insurance accounts. In an interview with \"The New York Times\", Cuomo stated his top goal in 2012 is the reduction of public employee pensions.\n\nIn keeping with a campaign promise, Cuomo signed same-sex marriage legislation on June 24, 2011, following an \"intense public and private lobbying campaign\", and later called for all states to do the same. Cuomo was lauded for his efforts to pass same-sex marriage legislation. One prominent advocate stated that \"for gay Americans, Mr. Cuomo was \"the only national politician with hero status.\" Following the passage of the Marriage Equality Act, Cuomo was criticized for describing the viewpoints of same-sex marriage opponents as being \"anti-American.\" On July 25, 2011, a lawsuit was filed in the New York Supreme Court seeking an injunction against the Marriage Equality Act, alleging corruption and violations of the law in the process of passing the bill. The trial court initially held that the plaintiffs' case could proceed, but the decision was reversed on appeal.\n\nIn July 2016, the Empire State Development Corporation, a state agency, released a report indicating that the state's flagship business tax incentive program, called START-UP NY, had generated 408 jobs since its inception in 2014. Ads promoting the program have cost at least $53 million. The START-UP NY annual report was delayed three months in 2016, leading some lawmakers, such as Assemblyman Schimminger, to call the delays \"curious\".\n\nCuomo was praised for his 2011 restructuring of the New York State tax code. He was also criticized for including tax increases for high earners, and for allegedly requesting a unanimous Assembly vote in favor of the proposal and threatening to campaign against Assembly members who voted \"no\" – a charge he denied. Cuomo also received criticism from voices on the left who felt that the tax reform was insufficient.\n\nCuomo has been a long support of providing tax and other incentives to attract business to locate in New York State. He even joked in 2018 that he would be willing to change his name to \"Amazon Cuomo\" if Amazon located their \"Amazon HQ2\" in the state. His strong position on this has received criticism saying that the costs to the state are not worth the possible benefits. Amazon decided on two \"major corporate outposts\" in New York City and Arlington, Virginia—instead of a single second headquarters.\n\nIn 2013, Cuomo called for the passage of a Women's Equality Act. The Women's Equality Act included 10 component bills affecting issues such as domestic violence, human trafficking, and pregnancy discrimination. The tenth bill of the Women's Equality Act was the Reproductive Health Act, which would have \"enshrine[d] in state law existing federal protections for abortion rights,\" \"shift[ed] the state's abortion law from the criminal code to the health care laws,\" and \"[made] it clearer that licensed health care practitioners as well as physicians could perform abortions.\" During his 2013 State of the State address, Cuomo said, \"Enact a Reproductive Health Act because it is her body, it is her choice. Because it's her body, it's her choice. Because it's her body, it's her choice.\" The New York State Assembly passed the Women's Equality Act on June 20, 2013. The Republican leadership of the New York State Senate expressed support for the nine non-abortion-related planks of the Women's Equality Act, but objected to the Reproductive Health Act and expressed unwillingness to allow a vote on it.\n\nOn the final day of the 2013 legislative session, following the Senate Republican Conference's continued refusal to vote on the full Women's Equality Act, Senator Jeff Klein, leader of the Independent Democratic Conference (IDC), offered the abortion plank of the Act as a hostile amendment to another bill. The amendment was defeated by a narrow margin of 32-31; all 30 Senate Republicans voted against the abortion amendment, as did Democratic Sens. Ruben Diaz and Simcha Felder. The Senate proceeded to pass the nine non-abortion-related planks of the Women's Equality Act as separate bills, and the 2013 legislative session came to an end without any portion of the WEA becoming law.\n\n\"[After] the 2014 election season was over, with Cuomo victorious, the governor and his lieutenant governor Kathy Hochul both declared the abortion plank of the act officially dormant, if not dead.\" In 2015, the non-abortion-related Women's Equality Act bills passed both houses of the State Legislature. In October 2015, Cuomo signed eight of the 10 Women's Equality Act bills into law; the abortion rights bill was not among them.\n\nIn April 2018, Cuomo announced that he would restore the voting rights of parolees through an executive order. Cuomo said that he would consider restoring the voting rights of all parolees (more than 35,000), and would also enfranchise new parolees throughout his term.\n\nIn the winter of 2018, Cuomo responded to a class-action lawsuit brought against the New York City Housing Authority by attorney Jim Walden on behalf of a group of public housing tenants. The suit was the first of its kind and called upon NYCHA to immediately address decrepit and unhealthy conditions in public housing units across New York City. At the invitation of Walden, Cuomo toured a public housing project in March. By early April, Cuomo appointed an independent monitor to oversee NYCHA on an emergency basis. The move broadened the ever-widening rift between NYC Mayor Bill DeBlasio and Cuomo.\n\nOn his first day in office, Cuomo renewed an executive order signed by Eliott Spitzer which prohibited Governors of New York from receiving donations from gubernatorial appointees. A February 2018 investigation by \"The New York Times\", however, revealed that the Cuomo administration had quietly reinterpreted the order, and that Cuomo had collected $890,000 from 24 of his appointees, as well as $1.3 million from the spouses, children and businesses of appointees. Some donations were made to Cuomo just days after the donor was appointed.\n\nIn March 2018, \"The New York Times\" reported that Cuomo had rewritten the disclaimer language on his campaign website for the executive order barring donations from appointees. The website added two caveats whereby some gubernatorial appointees are allowed to donate to the Governor, which \"The Times\" said could potentially lead to more donations from appointees to the Governor. The Cuomo campaign returned $2,500 donation from one appointee who was in violation of the new disclaimer, but still retains the approximately $890,000 raised from other appointees.\n\nIn a January 17, 2014, interview with Susan Arbetter on WCNY's \"The Capital Pressroom\", Cuomo stated:\n\nThis remark received a major reaction in the conservative media. Radio host Glenn Beck wrote a letter to the governor regarding the remarks from the interview. Fox News contributor and radio/TV show host, Sean Hannity mentioned emigrating along with all of his assets from the state if the governor does not apologize from the remarks. Cardinal Timothy M. Dolan, the Archbishop of New York, said during a radio broadcast that the governor's remarks were \"most unfortunate at best. Are there pro-lifers who are extremist? Yes, there are. But I think they are a distinct minority.\"\n\nThe New York State Democratic Committee, which is headed by Cuomo, supported his remarks and reiterated them in a May 2014 statement responding to a speech by Rob Astorino, who was running against him in the 2014 gubernatorial election: \"Tea Party Republicans have done enough damage in Washington, today's speech made it abundantly clear that we don't need them here in New York.\"\n\nCuomo married Kerry Kennedy, the seventh child of Robert F. Kennedy and Ethel Skakel Kennedy, on June 9, 1990. They have three daughters: twins, Cara Ethel Kennedy-Cuomo and Mariah Matilda Kennedy-Cuomo (born January 11, 1995), and Michaela Andrea Kennedy-Cuomo (born August 26, 1997). They separated in 2003, and divorced in 2005. In 2011, he began living with Food Network host Sandra Lee. The two reside in Westchester County, New York.\n\nOn July 4, 2015, Cuomo presided over the wedding ceremony of his long-time friend Billy Joel to his fourth wife, Alexis Roderick.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40229978", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40229978", "title": "Anti-corporate activism", "text": "Anti-corporate activism\n\nAnti-corporate activism holds that the influence of big business corporations is a detriment to the public good and to the democratic process.\n\n \nActivists argue that corporate globalization corresponds to a displacement in the transition from a highly industrial-based economy to one where trade development is connected with the financial deregulation on the basis of circulation of capital. An increasing number of diverse societies have been changed to free-market structure, leading to displacement. As this expansion has occurred, market-governed regulation has outrun the grasps of the state. Opponents of corporate globalization hold that the government needs greater power to control the markets, that income inequality is increasing, and that corporations have gained too much power. As part of the political left, activists against corporate power and influence support a decreased income gap and improved economical equity.\n\nThe defenders of corporations such as Ron Arnold highlight that governments do legislate in ways that restrict the actions of corporations (see Sarbanes-Oxley Act) and that lawbreaking companies and executives are routinely caught and punished, usually in the form of monetary fines.\n\nIn addition, from the perspective of business ethics it might be argued that chief executives are not inherently more evil than anyone else and so are no more likely to attempt unethical or illegal activity than the general population. Large multi-national corporations do continue to attempt to erode governmental regulations through in-house or contracted lobbyists who work closely with State and Federal legislators. So as corporate laws continue to lean in their favor, corporate members have improved portals to drive up company profits.\n\nAnti-corporate activists may often ally themselves with other activists, such as environmental activists or animal-rights activists in their condemnation of the practices of modern organizations such as the McDonald's Corporation (see McLibel) and forestry company Gunns Limited (see Gunns 20).\n\nIn recent years, there have been an increasing number of books (Naomi Klein's 2000 \"No Logo\" being a well-known example) and films such as \"The Corporation\" which have to a certain extent supported anti-corporate politics.\n\nAn artist critical of sociopolitical agendas in business is conceptualist Hans Haacke.\n\nIn June 2008, Condé Nast Publications released an article entitled \"The Secret Seven\" which it listed the top seven anti-corporate web sites which include: WikiLeaks, Mini-Microsoft, Wal-Mart Watch, HomeOwners for Better Building, Brenda Priddy and Company (automotive spy photos) and finally Apple Rumor Sites AppleInsider and MacRumors.\n\nMedia and digital networking have become important features of modern anti-corporate movements. The speed, flexibility, and ability to reach a massive potential audience has provided a technological foundation for contemporary network social movement structure. As a result, communities and interpersonal connections have transformed. The internet supports and strengthens local ties, but also facilitates new patterns for political activity. Activists have used this medium to operate between both the online and offline political spectrums.\n\nEmail lists, web pages, and open editing software have allowed for changes in organization. Now, actions are planned, information is shared, documents are produced by multiple people, and all of this can be done despite differences in distance. This has led to increased growth in digital collaboration. Activists can presently build ties between diverse topics, open the distribution of information, decentralize and increase collaboration, and self-direct networks.\n\nClose to fifty thousand people protested the WTO meetings in Seattle on November 30, 1999. Labor, economic, and environmental activists succeeded in disrupting and closing the meetings due to their disapproval of corporate globalization. This event became a symbol as anti-globalization networks emerged and became strengthened.\nThe experiences from the protests were distributed throughout the internet via emails and websites. Anti-corporate globalization movements have also expanded through the organization of mass mobilizations, including the anti-WTO protests, which were remarkably successful. In the United States, these movements reemerged after less attention was given to the war in Iraq, resulting in an increase in mass mobilizations.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10391441", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10391441", "title": "Broadway, Chennai", "text": "Broadway, Chennai\n\nBroadway (officially known as Prakasam Salai, after the freedom fighter T. Prakasam) is one of the historical thoroughfares of the commercial centre of George Town in Chennai, India. The road runs north–south connecting China Bazaar Road in the south with Ibrahim Sahib Street (Old Jail Road) in the north. The road divides George Town into Muthialpet and Peddanaickenpet.\n\nUp until the 16th century, the road and the surrounding region, being near the coast, had many sand ridges. As the sea level rose, it inundated these regions, where several lagoons and ridges were left behind when the sea withdrew. The sandy ridges remained places of safety, where settlements were established. Several valleys ran around the ridges, which rose up to about 12 feet in height. Some of these valleys served as drainage channels. Until the late 18th century, the area on which the present day's road lies remained one such unwanted drainage channel, known then as Atta Pallam. Much of the area was owned by Stephen Popham, a former British MP and later the advocate general in Calcutta, who moved to Madras in 1778. He is credited with establishing a modern police force in the city in 1782.\n\nThe area where the General Hospital, Madras United Club and the Park Town post office stand today was then a hill known locally as Narimedu (literally 'mound of foxes'), which was named 'Hoggs Hill' by the British. When the British considered it as a security threat to Fort St. George and decided to level the area, Popham negotiated with them to buy the earth removed from the hill to fill the ditch. The thoroughfare thus created came to be known as 'Popham's Broadway'.\n\nBy the 1890s, the road became known for two food establishments, the first of which was that of P. Venkatachellum, whose condiments and chutneys were popular in England. He is credited with the creation of mulligatawny soup from the local recipe of \"milagu rasam\" (\"milagu thanni\"). The other restaurant was Harrison's, established in 1891, which today is a contemporary hotel in Nungambakkam.\n\nThe road was also home to the city's first private hospital run in the 1900s by physician T. A. Sankaranarayanan, decades before the advent of the Apollo Hospitals, the country's first modern corporate hospital, established in 1983.\n\nToday, the road has morphed into one of the most important commercial streets of George Town. Several commercial establishments, especially those of opticians, have their shops on this street. The Broadway bus terminus, the largest bus terminus of the Chennai Metropolitan Transport Corporation, is located on the southern end of the road.\n\nThe road will also house the Mannadi Metro Rail station of the Chennai Metro Rail under construction.\n\n"}
{"id": "8869168", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8869168", "title": "Business Journalist of the Year Awards", "text": "Business Journalist of the Year Awards\n\nThe Business Journalist of the Year Awards are widely recognised as the most important global awards for business writers and broadcasters. They are the only awards for business writers that are open to journalists of all nationalities, and the only awards to cover the entire spectrum of business and financial reporting.\n\nThe Business Journalist of the Year Awards (first presented in 1999) were created because business information had become a global commodity paying little heed to national borders. In a world where goods, services, money and knowledge move ever more freely from one domain to another, the source of business information is no longer relevant - only its quality matters. That's the spirit these awards were created in, and the spirit in which they have grown.\n\nThe Business Journalist of the Year Awards are judged exclusively by journalists and governed by the World's leading business editors. The Editors' Committee comprises Martin Dickson, Deputy Editor of the \"Financial Times\"; Robert Peston, business editor at the BBC; Hugo Dixon, editor-in-chief and chairman of Breakingviews; Jesse Lewis, managing editor of \"The Wall Street Journal Europe\"; and Rik Kirkland, former managing editor of \"Fortune\".\n\n"}
{"id": "3989604", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3989604", "title": "Cohabitation agreement", "text": "Cohabitation agreement\n\nA cohabitation agreement is a form of legal agreement reached between a couple who have chosen to live together (whether they are heterosexual or homosexual). In some ways, such a couple may be treated like a married couple, such as when applying for a mortgage or working out child support. However, in some other areas, such as property rights, pensions and inheritance, they are treated differently.\n\nA cohabitation agreement contains documentation for a couple who want to live together in order to protect themselves from unnecessary cost and litigation should their cohabitation break down. They can clearly regulate their property rights and what arrangements might be made for mutual financial support, dealing with debt, caring for children, etc.\n\nThe agreement also, much like a prenuptial agreement, allows the individuals concerned to determine in advance who will keep specific assets and what will happen to assets that have been purchased jointly if they separate. This agreement is intended to bind both parties.\n\nIn the United States, about 15 million couples qualify as cohabiting. A cohabitation agreement can give each party an idea of the expectations of the relationship with the legal enforceability to protect against financial ruin or the loss of support that was promised. It is a good idea in that if the couple does break up, an altercation about who receives what may be less likely. However, the courts may occasionally change or ignore provisions set out in a cohabitation agreement if they feel that they are inadequate under the circumstances.\n\nCohabitation agreements are not considered to be legally binding in the United Kingdom.\n\nA cohabitation agreement will usually not be adequate to settle all legal issues that might arise, so a trust deed setting out property rights and a will are also recommended.\n\nIt is a common misconception that there is a doctrine of \"Common Law marriage\" in English law. That is to say that without having married, there is no automatic right to home ownership, even if the home is shared for a long time. Instead, the only way in which ownership can be obtained is through ordinary trust law. Even if the parties are legally married, there is still no automatic right to home ownership. Instead, any transfer of ownership will be at the discretion of the court when exercising their power under the Matrimonial Causes Act 1973.\n\nIn Canada, each province has legislation which governs the creation of cohabitation agreements. In the Province of Ontario there are restrictions on what can be included in such agreements. For example, clauses requiring chastity are unenforceable. Provisions which pre-determine issues of child custody and access as well as child support may be disregarded by a court As well, in Canada, for a cohabitation agreement to be valid, it must be signed, witnessed, and accompanied by financial disclosure.\n\nSome gay activists have been campaigning for legal recognition of their partnerships. Their campaigning for the right to take over a partner's tenancy of the family home on bereavement have been gained, regardless of any cohabitation agreement existing, but if a couple share a home their chances of buying the rights are much more limited.\n\nIn December 2005, the British government offered gay couples equal rights with married couples if they register a civil partnership legally. The government-backed scheme – which enables same-sex couples to qualify for next-of-kin entitlements on inheritance tax, pensions and property – is likely to attract many more couples.\n\nThere will still be large legal differences between civil partnership and marriage. For example, a couple can get married and have all the legal rights and benefits after knowing each other for only a few days, but a same-sex couple will almost certainly be required to show a lengthy commitment to each other before they are allowed to register their partnership. Currently, for immigration purposes, a same-sex couple must show they have a relationship of two years' standing, and it is likely that a similar term will be imposed for registering a partnership. Consequently, same-sex couples will need to make wills and a cohabitation agreement, to provide security in the event of break-up.\n\nIn the United States, a cohabitation agreement offers fewer legal protections than a registered domestic partnership.\nAs afore mentioned, the term is also sometimes used loosely to refer to prenuptial agreements. These are often designed when one intends to protect his or her wealth in the event of the marriage ending in divorce. The contract aims to achieve a measure of certainty about what the financial \"damage\" would be if the marriage came to an end. However \"K v K\" (2003) has heightened the importance of prenuptial agreements by deciding that the wife had to stick by the terms of a prenuptial agreement she signed. The courts still keep their discretion about whether or not a prenuptial agreement will be upheld but this new case shows that the courts are in favour of couples making private agreements between themselves.\n\n"}
{"id": "17887386", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17887386", "title": "Crossing of cheques", "text": "Crossing of cheques\n\nA crossed cheque is a cheque that has been marked specifying an instruction on the way it is to be redeemed. A common instruction is for the cheque to be deposited directly to an account with a bank and not to be immediately cashed by the holder over the bank counter. The format and wording varies between countries, but generally, two parallel lines may be placed either vertically across the cheque or on the top left hand corner of the cheque. By using crossed cheques, cheque writers can effectively protect the instrument from being stolen or cashed by unauthorized persons.\n\nCheques can be open (uncrossed) or crossed.\n\nAn open cheque is a cheque that is not crossed on the left corner and payable at the counter of the drawee bank on presentation of the cheque.\n\nA crossed cheque is a cheque that is payable only through a collecting banker and not directly at the counter of the bank.\n\nWhen two parallel transverse lines, with or without any words, are drawn generally, on the left hand top corner of the cheque.\n\nA crossed cheque generally is a cheque that only bears two parallel transverse lines, optionally with the words 'and company' or '& Co.' (or any abbreviation of them) on the face of the cheque, between the lines, usually at the top left corner or at any place in the approximate half (in width) of the cheque. In the UK, the crossing is across the cheque by the person who originally wrote the cheque (the drawer), or it can legitimately be added by the person the cheque is payable to (the payee), or even by the bank that the cheque is being paid into.\n\nGenerally-crossed cheques can only be paid into a bank account, so that the beneficiary can be traced.\n\nA crossed cheque on its own does not affect the negotiability of the instrument.\n\nAdding a crossing to a cheque increases its security in that it cannot be cashed at a bank counter but must be paid into an account in exactly the same name as that which appears on the ‘payee’ line of the cheque (i.e. the person who has received the cheque, who is legally the “payee” and “holder” of the cheque).\n\nThe words 'not negotiable' can be added to a crossing.\n\nThe effect of such a crossing is that it removes the most important characteristic of a negotiable instrument: the transferee of such a crossed cheque cannot get a better title than that of the transferor (cannot become a holder in due course) and cannot convey a better title to his own transferee, but the instrument remains transferable.\n\nWhere some customary instruction is written between the two parallel transverse lines (constituting crossing of cheque) that may result in imposing certain restrictions on the collecting or paying banker, it is called restrictive crossing. The example is \"State Bank of India\". In these cases, the respective restrictions mandate to pay the cheque through State Bank of India (acting as collecting banker) only.\n\nA crossing may have the name of a specific banker added between the lines. A cheque with a such a crossing can only be paid into an account at that bank.\n\nThe beneficiary bank can add an additional crossing to allow another bank, who are acting as their agent in collecting payment on cheques, to be paid the cheque on their behalf.\n\nA bank's failure to comply with the crossings amounts to a breach of contract with its customer. The bank may not be able to debit the drawer's account and may be liable to the true owner for his loss.\n\n"}
{"id": "50759857", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50759857", "title": "Daryl Roth", "text": "Daryl Roth\n\nDaryl Roth (born December 21, 1944) is an American ten time Tony Award-winning producer who has produced over 90 productions on and off Broadway.\n\nRoth is the only producer of seven Pulitzer Prize-winning plays: Bruce Norris’ Clybourne Park (Tony Award); Tracy Letts’ (Tony Award); Nilo Cruz’s Anna in the Tropics; David Auburn’s Proof (Tony Award); Margaret Edson’s Wit; Paula Vogel’s How I Learned to Drive; and Edward Albee’s Three Tall Women.\n\nRoth's Broadway producing credits include:\n\nRoth's off-Broadway producing credits include:\n\nRoth's film credits include:\n\nThe former Union Square Savings Bank building was acquired by Roth in 1996 and has undergone renovation and additions in order to create three venues. The Daryl Roth Theatre, the DR2 Theatre and the cabaret bar: The D-Lounge.\n\nRoth is a Member of the Mayor’s Theater Subdistrict Council, an Honorary Trustee for Lincoln Center Theatre, and served on the Board of Directors of the Albert Einstein College of Medicine and New York State Council on the Arts.\n\nHer other awards and honors include: The 2016 Order of the Golden Sphinx Award from The Hasty Pudding Institute of 1770; The 2014 New York Living Landmarks award; The 2013 Einstein Humanitarian Award from The Women's Division and Albert Einstein College of Medicine; The 2013 Broadway Association Visionary Leader Award; The Stella Adler 2012 Harold Clurman Spirit Award; the 2012 Family Equality Council Hostetter-Habib Family Award; The 2011 Live Out Loud Humanitarian Award, 2010 Lucille Lortel Lifetime Achievement Award, Primary Stages 2007 Honoree, The National Foundation for Jewish Culture’s Patron of the Arts Award, The Jewish Theological Seminary’s Louis Marshall Award, The Albert Einstein College of Medicine Spirit of Achievement Award, The National Corporate Theatre Fund’s Chairman Award, and The Tisch School of the Arts Award for Artistic Leadership. Roth has twice been included in Crain’s “100 Most Influential Women in Business.”\n\nThe Daryl Roth Creative Spirit Award annually honors a gifted theatre artist or organization, providing them with financial support as they develop new works in an artistic residency.\n\nRoth is married to real estate investor Steven Roth. She has two children. Her son, Jordan Roth, is president of Jujamcyn Theaters.\n\n"}
{"id": "11461721", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11461721", "title": "Downtown Hayward", "text": "Downtown Hayward\n\nDowntown Hayward is the original and current central business district of Hayward, California, United States, and is home to the current Hayward City Hall, along with the two previous city halls, Alex Giualini Plaza and the City Center Building. The Hayward Fault runs through the area, and is the cause of the two previous city halls being taken out of use.\n\nThe boundaries are Third Street to the east, Grand Street and Hayward BART to the west, Jackson Street and E Street to the south, and City Center Drive/Hazel Avenue to the north. Foothill Boulevard was known as \"The Golden Strip\", a retail business corridor that was built in the 1950s, and housed Capwell's and I. Magnin department stores. The street lost businesses after the opening of Southland Mall in 1964. Parks include Newman Park and The Julio Bras Portuguese Park. San Lorenzo Creek runs through downtown. The Hayward Public Library is located there. \"Hayward City Center\" a mall and building complex located at the northern end of downtown, contains the City Center Building, which served as the city's second city hall from 1969 to 1991, and is now an abandoned 11 story building, Hayward's tallest building, formerly the second tallest prior to California State University, East Bay's Warren Hall demolition in 2013. The City Center complex previously contained the now demolished Centennial Hall Convention Center. The bankrupt Mervyns department store chain's large former headquarters is across the street from the City Center mall. The Hayward Area Historical Society operates a museum downtown, which relocated and re-opened June 2014. The FBI operates a resident agency in downtown Hayward. The Hayward Art Council, founded in 1975, operates the Sun Gallery downtown. The Independent Order of Odd Fellows building on B Street is one of Hayward's oldest buildings, and was built in 1868. The Hayward 9/11 Memorial was dedicated May 30, 2016, to the first responders who died in 9/11, and to the city's own fallen first responders, and the city's fallen soldiers.\n\nCinema Place is a entertainment and shopping center, comprising a single structure, which opened October 24, 2008. Directly adjacent to the center is a large city run parking garage. The City of Hayward has commissioned 3 large murals, designed by Hayward artist Andrew Kong Knight, decorating the exterior of the garage, featuring scenes from Hollywood and Hayward, which are being executed in 2011. An additional mural by Knight is found at the northern end of The Hayward Strip. Hayward's Public Mural Art Program has won a Helen Putnam Award of Excellence.\n\nThe main tenant is a Century Theatre multiplex, which is Hayward's lone movie theater since Mann's Festival Cinemas closed in 2003. In 2011, the Hayward Art Council opened a gallery on the ground floor of the center, in a storefront that has remained unused since the center's opening.\n\nThe Total Package Salon, under new ownership and new management, is located at 1122 B St. The salon is ran by celebrity stylists and women who have worked in the movie beauty industry. Truly a staple of Downtown Hayward. The Green Shutter Hotel, a California Historical Landmark, is located downtown. Buffalo Bill's Brewery, founded in 1983 by photographer Bill Owens, is one of the first brewpubs to open in California since Prohibition, after legislation passed in 1982 legalizing brewpubs again. The \"Daily Review\" newspaper operated from downtown, until its closure in 2016.\n\nThe All Saints Catholic Church is located downtown. It operates the Mount Saint Joseph Cemetery. The Hayward Veterans' Memorial Building, built in 1932, is adjacent to the old City Hall building, and is available for public events. The Hayward Area Historical Society opened a new museum, galleries, and an events venue in June 2014.\n\nThe Route 238 Corridor Improvement Project broke ground July 2010, with an expected completion date in 2013. It will include undergrounding of telephone wires, and extensive landscaping, bringing parks and improved traffic flow to the downtown region. A one-way traffic loop for sections of A Street, Foothill Boulevard and Mission Boulevard went into effect March 15, 2013. The Foothill Boulevard business district is also scheduled to receive a $2.85 million face-lift, partly through $1.1 million in loans, improving the storefront facades and other amenities. New businesses opening include a microdistillery to be operated by Buffalo Bill's Brewery.\n\n"}
{"id": "904795", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=904795", "title": "Electronic News Production System", "text": "Electronic News Production System\n\nElectronic News Production System (ENPS) is a software application developed by the Associated Press's Broadcast Technology division for producing, editing, timing, organizing and running news broadcasts. The system is scalable and flexible enough to handle anything from the local news at a small-market station to large organizations spanning remote bureaus in multiple countries.\n\nThe basic organization of each news broadcast is called a \"rundown\" (US) or \"running order\" (UK). The run-down is a grid listing scripts, video, audio, character generator data, teleprompter control, director notations, camera operator cues, and timing estimates for each section of the broadcast.\n\nENPS integrates scripts, wire feeds, device control, and production information in a server/client environment. On the server side, ENPS runs an identical backup server (called a \"buddy\") at all times as a fail-safe. If the primary server fails, all users are redirected to the buddy server until such time as the primary comes back on-line. All document changes are queued on the buddy and copied back to the primary automatically when it returns to production. Note that this is not a mirror server as the changed data is copied to the buddy, but there is no direct replication inherent within the intercommunications between the servers, so if the data is corrupted due to hardware failure on one server, this corruption will not be replicated to the \"buddy\".\n\nDevice control can be managed either through a serial interface, or the MOS (Media Object Server) protocol. MOS functionality is included in the base ENPS license, but may be an extra add-on for the device that needs to interface with ENPS. MOS items such as video or audio clips can be added directly to scripts, and then used by third party software and devices during the broadcast. Many broadcast media systems support the MOS protocol to a greater or lesser degree by implementing any of the seven MOS Protocol 'profiles'. An example of a MOS System which fully supports all seven MOS Profiles is SIENNA , used by ENPS customers including the BBC.\n\nThe ENPS client utilizes the .NET framework and other Windows-only technologies. The client, therefore, will only run in the Microsoft Windows operating system.\n\nENPS was originally developed by the Associated Press for use at the BBC in the United Kingdom as a replacement for the text mode system BASYS (which developed into Avid iNEWS), and the Corporation has the largest installation of the system with over 12,000 users in 300 different locations .\n\nOn December 15, 2011 Synaptic Digital announced a partnership with ENPS to deliver their content on thenewsmarket.com directly to subscribers of their feed.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26404338", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26404338", "title": "Emil Corsillo Inc", "text": "Emil Corsillo Inc\n\nEmil Corsillo Inc. was a company that manufactured hairpieces; primarily for the entertainment industry.\n\nEmil was an Italian immigrant. Together with his wife, Elsie Koch, he founded Emil Corsillo Inc., the famous Hollywood company that for close to 50 years supplied the entertainment industry in with toupees, headpieces, wigs, and manufactured mannequin wigs.\n\nEmil was the originator of the mannequin wig in the 1940s. The wigs were made from nylon. On September 6, 1950, Corsillo filed a patent for his wigs, in particular, the reinforced wig foundation frames (where the fake hair was attached). He was issued with Patent number: 2661749 in December 1953.\n\nMost of the Hollywood actors that required a hairpiece were clients of the company. Among them were Bozo the Clown, Harpo Marx, Brian Donlevy, Hal Fishman, and many more.\n\nEmil died in 1967, but the company continued on into the 1980s when it was closed. The decline in demand was attributed to new technologies and imports.\n"}
{"id": "20788797", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20788797", "title": "Empowerment Experiment", "text": "Empowerment Experiment\n\nThe Empowerment Experiment (formerly called the Ebony Experiment as of March 12, 2009), was co-founded by John and Maggie Anderson of Oak Park, Illinois. Steven S. Rogers, director of the Kellogg Entrepreneurial Practice Center at Northwestern University's Graduate School of Management, serves as an Executive Advisor to the experiment, which is a year-long study designed to find out what happens when people buy things only from black-owned businesses.\n\nSome participants who are committed to this movement have been willing to drive substantially longer distances than what they had driven before the movement started, in order to purchase goods from black-owned businesses.\n\nBy May 12, 2009, 4,000 people had signed up on the Andersons' website to participate in their experiment.\n\nThe United States has one million black-owned businesses, which account for more than $100 billion in annual sales. Blacks have more than $800 billion in expendable income each year.\n\nLawrence Hamer, associate professor of marketing at DePaul University, praised the experiment as being \"brave and courageous,\" and said the rationale for it was \"exactly right.\"\n\nJames E. Clingman, who writes frequently about African-American economic empowerment, and also teaches a class on black entrepreneurship at the University of Cincinnati, said, \"I'd rather have more black businesses than black politicians.\"\n\nGregory Price, chairman of the economics department at Morehouse College, said the ideas behind the movement were similar to the ideas expressed by black visionaries like Booker T. Washington and Marcus Garvey. Price also said, \"The idea is a sound one, given that black Americans are still underrepresented in the ranks of the self-employed and that entrepreneurship is a key component to wealth.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "29566154", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29566154", "title": "Feeder line (manufacturing)", "text": "Feeder line (manufacturing)\n\nA feeder line is a secondary assembly line which provides parts for use in a primary assembly line. Researchers assert that the traditional level scheduling methodology of assembly line planning is not effective unless feeder lines provide parts to the primary assembly line.\n"}
{"id": "12994185", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12994185", "title": "I54", "text": "I54\n\ni54 South Staffordshire is a 239-acre (98 hectare) UK technology-based business park strategically located at Junction 2 on the M54 Motorway in the West Midlands, on the boundary of South Staffordshire and Wolverhampton.\n\ni54 South Staffordshire is a £50 million pound joint venture partnership between Staffordshire County Council, Wolverhampton City Council and South Staffordshire Council and has attracted global business occupants, which have in turn warranted visits from the UK Prime Minister David Cameron and Her Majesty The Queen. It benefits from Enterprise Zone Status and falls within the Black Country Enterprise Zone.\n\nThe site entrance is at Junction 2 of the M54 Motorway, just to the west of the Staffordshire and Worcestershire Canal. The site is home to several global high-tech and advanced manufacturing companies including MOOG Aerospace, Eurofins Laboratories, International Security Printers (ISP) and the home of the £500 million UK advance engine manufacturing facility of Jaguar Land Rover.\nThe aim of this strategically location business site is to deliver major employment opportunities and maximise job creation potential in key industries. It will also play a key role in the diversification and growth of the regional economy. It is also believed that i54 South Staffordshire will achieve high standards of sustainability.\n\nThe regeneration project is a joint venture between Wolverhampton City Council, Staffordshire County Council and South Staffordshire Council.\n\nThe cost of the project to the 98 hectare site is estimated to be costing £67 million GBP and was granted crucial planning approvals from two local authorities in September 2006.\n\nIn August 2006 contractors to the site started the second major phase of the scheme, a £5 million GBP 12-month programme of infrastructure and reclamation work.\n\nOn Tuesday 3 July 2007 key partners for the project toasted the substantial completion of a £10 million GBP programme of remediation and site preparation works on the i54 site. The site preparation work ran over a 16-month period and has been carried out by Blackwell and supervised by Mouchel Parkman engineering consultancy. During this time the following was achieved:\n\n\nOther statistics include:\n\n\nOn 25 April 2011, Jaguar Land Rover expressed an interest in the i54 site as a possible location for a new advanced engine plant. On 19 September 2011 Deputy Prime Minister Nick Clegg announced at the engine factory in Solihull the proposals for Jaguar Land Rover's decision to build their new engine plant in South Staffordshire creating around 1400 additional jobs within the company and more within the supply chain which will be created by a £500 million investment by Jaguar Land Rover and £10m by the Government. The new plant in Wolverhampton will join other Midlands-based plants in Solihull and Castle Bromwich as well as the birthplace of the new Evoque in Halewood, Liverpool.\n\nIt is understood that Jaguar Land Rover are taking on the investments to meet the demands of high sales in Asia. The new engine plant will be home to the new family of 4-cylinder petrol and diesel engines for the luxury Land Rover brand, originally brought to help boost technology in Tata Motors vehicle range. JLR chief executive Dr Ralf Speth announced that £1.5 billion is to be invested into the company and the new engine plant each year for the next 5 years on product development and the engine range. JLR engines are currently being supplied by Ford Motors\n\n\nConstruction started on site in 2011, with MOOG fully operational on site by the start of 2012. The Aerospace company makes flight controls and spent £15 million to move from its current location, to the i54 South Staffordshire development. The company hopes to safeguard 400 jobs with its relocation. Laboratory firm Eurofins also moved into the development and was fully operational by 2012.\n\nThe i54 South Staffordshire site is the largest of the 19 sites which make up the Black Country Enterprise Zone, which has 5 sites in Wolverhampton and 14 in Darlaston, Walsall. The creation of the zone for the Black Country was announced on 23 March 2011 by Chancellor George Osborne. Enterprise zone status speeds up the process of allowing companies to re-locate to the site and encourages it with tax breaks.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27045422", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27045422", "title": "Jan Baan", "text": "Jan Baan\n\nJan Baan (Born in Rijssen, 9 March 1946) is a Dutch entrepreneur and venture capitalist, known as the founder of the Baan Company, a software company providing Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) software. After selling the company, he founded Cordys, a company to provide web-related ERP products.\n\nBaan was born and raised in Rijssen as eldest son in a family of ten. His father was a carpenter, and his grandfather on his mother's side was cofounder of a regional bus company.\n\nAt the age of 16, Baan started working at a meatworks, leaving secondary school without a degree. After serving in the military, Baan got a job at an accounting firm. In 1970, he started working for a wholesale firm, where after two years he became head of the accounting department. When the company bought their first computer, Baan got acquainted with automation. Mid 1970s Baan started working as a consultant, and shortly managed the financial department of a large company.\n\nIn 1978, Jan founded The Baan Company, a software company providing ERP solutions, which became a major player in the ERP software industry. Jan Baan left the Baan Company in 1998. After his efforts with the Baan Company, Baan became a venture capitalist and invested in companies like Top Tier and WebEx; both were eventually valued above $1billion. Top Tier was later sold to SAP, while WebEx was sold to Cisco. In an interview, Baan said that \"... with WebEx and Top Tier I was an investor. Baan, and Cordys, I do for life. I am not a serial entrepreneur at all.\" \n\nIn 2005, Baan wrote a book on his life as an entrepreneur, called The Way to Market Leadership.\n\nThe Baan Company was founded in 1978. With the development of his first software package in 1979, he commenced his career in the ERP industry. His brother Paul Baan joined him in the management of the company. Under Jan's stewardship, the company made good market in the field of Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) software and grew from a $35 million company in the early 1990s to $680 million in 1998.\n\nThe Baan Company competed successfully with large companies like SAP and PeopleSoft and became the number 2 ERP player in the software industry. However, the company's fall started in 1998 as the stocks started to dip and eventually in 2000 it was sold to the British company Invensys.\n\nIn 2001, Baan started a new company, Cordys, along with Theodoor van Donge. The intention was to produce products serving to bridge the traditional Enterprise Resource Planning products with the internet, using the internet as the front end. \nIn 2010 Cordys Switzerland AG was founded as an independent legal entity according to Swiss law. The Swiss company was not part of the later M&A deal between Jan Baan and OpenText.\n\nIn August 2013, Jan Baan sold Cordys to OpenText for 33M USD.\n\n"}
{"id": "2447470", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2447470", "title": "John M. Brockenbrough", "text": "John M. Brockenbrough\n\nJohn Mercer Brockenbrough (August 1, 1830 – August 24, 1892) was a farmer and a Confederate colonel in the American Civil War.\n\nBrockenbrough, the son of Moore Fauntleroy Brockenbrough and his wife Sarah Waller Smith was born August 1, 1830 in Richmond County, Virginia. He is a 2nd cousin of John White Brockenbrough and his sister, Civil War diarist, Judith White (Brockenbrough) McGuire. He graduated from the Virginia Military Institute in 1850.\n\nAt the start of the Civil War, Brockenbrough was appointed colonel of the 40th Virginia Infantry, which served attached to Brig. Gen. Charles W. Field's Virginia brigade in Maj. Gen. A.P. Hill's Light Division and later Maj. Gen. Henry Heth's division in the Third Corps, Army of Northern Virginia. Brockenbrough led his regiment through the Seven Days Battles, a punishing series of battles that caused 50% casualties in his regiment.\n\nBrockenbrough assumed command of the brigade after Field was wounded at the Second Battle of Bull Run and led it two days later at Chantilly. During the Maryland Campaign, he took part in the capture of Harpers Ferry, and then marched with the rest of the Light Division to the rescue of Gen. Robert E. Lee's army at Sharpsburg; his brigade was deployed on the far right of A.P. Hill's line and did not see any direct action there. At Fredericksburg, his brigade was ordered to plug a hole in the Confederate line that was being exploited by Union troops under Maj. Gen. George G. Meade. Brockenbrough lost control of his brigade during this action and two of his regiments split off with him and never reached the fighting. Lee apparently was not impressed with Brockenbrough's leadership qualities. Even though months had passed, the unit was still called Field's Brigade and Brockenbrough was still considered its temporary commander. Lee did not recommend him for promotion.\n\nIn early 1863, Lee brought Brig. Gen. Henry Heth from assignment in Tennessee to replace Brockenbrough in command of the brigade (soon called \"Heth's Brigade\"), hoping to restore it to fighting shape. During the Battle of Chancellorsville, Heth took over command of the division when Hill was wounded on May 2, 1863, which meant that Brockenbrough was back in command of the brigade on May 3, when it lost around 300 men storming the enemy line. After the battle, Brockenbrough was given a rare commendation for leading the attack by General Heth. He remained in brigade command when Heth was promoted to command a new division.\n\nAt the Battle of Gettysburg, Brockenbrough's brigade was in the rear of Heth's column during the march on the Chambersburg Pike, July 1, 1863, and thus missed the morning attacks against the Union cavalry and the I Corps. In the afternoon attacks, his men advanced on a line with J. Johnston Pettigrew's North Carolina brigade, and although the latter brigade fought fiercely, suffering over a thousand casualties, Brockenbrough's brigade was hesitant and fought ineffectively against the Pennsylvanians of Col. Roy Stone and a portion of the Iron Brigade, as may be inferred from their casualty rate of 100. The brigade rested on July 2, but on July 3 participated in the bloody assault known as Pickett's Charge. There is no record that Brockenbrough marched with his men toward Cemetery Ridge that day, however, and Col. Robert M. Mayo of the 47th Virginia Infantry was in temporary command. It is possible that the death of Brockenbrough's brother during the battle on July 1 left him distraught and unable to step up to his responsibilities. Assigned to the far left flank of Pettigrew's divisional line, the brigade was subjected to heavy shelling from Union artillery on Cemetery Hill and when the 8th Ohio Infantry came up on their left flank, the Virginians turned and ran.\n\nDuring the Confederate retreat back to Virginia, Brockenbrough attempted to reclaim some of his damaged reputation by making a reckless advance against Union troops at Falling Waters on July 14, suffering numerous casualties. Five days later, Brockenbrough's former regimental lieutenant colonel, Brig. Gen. Henry Harrison Walker, was given command of the brigade, returning Brockenbrough to the 40th Virginia, which he led at Bristoe and Mine Run. On January 21, 1864, Brockenbrough resigned from the Confederate States Army. He retained his rank of colonel in the reserves until late 1864.\n\nAfter the war, Brockenbrough lived in Norfolk and Richmond. He died in Richmond and is buried there in Hollywood Cemetery.\n\n"}
{"id": "30497699", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30497699", "title": "Lisa Hickey", "text": "Lisa Hickey\n\nLisa Hickey is an American author, advertising consultant, and social media consultant. She is the CEO of Good Men Media, Inc. and the Publisher of Good Men Magazine as part of the Good Men Project.\n\nHickey received a Bachelor of Arts in Psychology and Sociology from the University of Rochester in 1979 where she graduated Cum Laude. Hickey went onto acquire a Certificate in Graphic Design from the Massachusetts College of Art in Boston, Massachusetts. \n\nIn 1999, Hickey opened her own agency, Velocity Advertising. The agency was known for offering full-service capabilities to clients regardless of their geographic location. Prior to Velocity, Hickey worked for companies such as Boston's Heater Advertising (Renamed Red), Arnold Worldwide and Holland Mark Advertising. One advertisement she helped create while at Hill Holiday, a spot for Lotus Notes, has a permanent home in the Museum of Modern Art.\n\nHickey has also helped to resurrect Holland Mark, an agency that she had worked for in the late nineties. In 2007, Hickey was part of a team assembled by Chris Colbert to help re-open the previously troubled company.\n\nIn 2009, Hickey teamed up with media critic Steve Hall and Edward Boches, Mullen’s chief creative officer to live tweet Super Bowl XLIII advertising. Hickey, Hall, and Boches were looking to explore how pre-game advertising exposure online and real-time reactions to Super Bowl television advertising may begin to change the nature of the “Water Cooler” chatter and how consumers interact with brands.\n\nGood Men Media, Inc. is a multi-platform, multi-media company that aims to spark a national discussion around the question of “What does it mean to be a good man?” Good Men Media publishes \"The Good Men Project magazine\", which has received mainstream media accolades for heralding “a new era of men’s magazines.”\n\nThe for-profit arm of the Good Men Project, Good Men Media, Inc., was founded in March 2010 by Hickey, an advertising veteran and social media consultant. Hickey is also the CEO. Good Men Media gives back a portion of proceeds to the Foundation in return for licensing the Good Men Project name. Hickey was responsible for creating a plan, figuring out an operational structure, and raising investor funding.\n\nGood Men Media is responsible for publishing the online magazine, The Good Men Project, and is also developing book, film and technological applications that all focus on men’s issues.\n\nIn November 2010, Good Men Media received a round of angel funding for $500,000. The Boston company plans to use the funding to expand distribution of men's related content and to support revenue growth. Investors in Good Men Media include project founder Tom Matlack and private angel investors Grant Gund, managing partner of Coppermine Capital; Jack Roberts, CEO and president of Consert Inc.; Mike Jackson, former partner at Lehman Brothers and founding partner of Ironwood and Housatonic Partners; and Michael Margolis, founder of the investment management firm Maric LS, LLC, and others.\n\nHickey has published three books on the subject of advertising and graphic design. Her first book, \"Design Secrets: Advertising: 50 Real-Life Projects Uncovered\", was released in 2002 as part of the Design Secrets Series published by Rockport Publishers. The book showcases 50 real-life design projects, including original plans, sketches, interim drawings, and presentations each accompanied by informative captions that show how designers present their ideas, and solve problems.\n\nHer second book, also published by Rockport Publishers, was released in 2004 and is titled \"Designs That Stand Up, Speak Out, and Can't Be Ignored: Promotions\". According to the description, the book includes the A-list of projects that have found a way to grab the attention of their audiences, despite all the stimuli that can get in the way.\n\nHer most recent book was published in 2007 by Quarry Books and is titled \"Little Book of Big Promotions\" which she co-authored with Lisa Cyr and Cheryl Dangle Cullen. The book contains design ideas, insight into the creative process and execution, and tools and information to help make the right production decisions.\n\nHickey is also a published poet. Her latest poem, \"Mail Order Tadpoles\", was featured in \"Rattle\", an online poetry magazine.\n"}
{"id": "782253", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=782253", "title": "List of Coca-Cola slogans", "text": "List of Coca-Cola slogans\n\nSince its inception in 1886, Coca-Cola has been notable for its advertising slogans.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17797269", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17797269", "title": "List of countries by labour force", "text": "List of countries by labour force\n\nThis is a list of countries by size of the labour force mostly based on The World Factbook.\n"}
{"id": "52032085", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52032085", "title": "List of grants made by the Donald J. Trump Foundation", "text": "List of grants made by the Donald J. Trump Foundation\n\nThe Donald J. Trump Foundation is a New York-based charitable foundation founded by Donald Trump, President of the United States. The following is a partial list of grants made by the foundation from 2006 through 2009.\n\nThe foundation's annual IRS Form 990 filing would normally contain the full list of grants made by the foundation. The following lists are incomplete.\n\nThe following were reported to the Foundation Center during the year 2006:\n\n\nThe following grants were reported to the Foundation Center during the year 2007:\n\n\nThe \"Palm Beach Post\" has listed some additional recipients, as \"a few of the larger donations made by the foundation through the years\":\n\n\nAccording to a review by the \"International Business Times\", the Trump Foundation did not give to right-wing causes until 2010, when donations to conservative organizations were first reported. Among these organizations, the Foundation gave:\n\n\nIn 2010, the Trump Foundation made a $10,000 contribution to Jenny McCarthy's Generation Rescue, an organization that promotes vaccine scientific research.\n"}
{"id": "43129456", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43129456", "title": "Ma Man-kei", "text": "Ma Man-kei\n\nMa Man-kei (; October 1919 – May 26, 2014) was a Chinese-Macanese businessman, tycoon, entrepreneur and politician. A strong supporter of the Communist Party of China, Ma was a proponent of the transfer of sovereignty over Macau from Portugal to the People's Republic of China, which took place in 1999. Ma was Vice Chairman of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference's (CPPCC) eighth, ninth, tenth and eleventh sessions, beginning in 1993.\n\nMa was born in 1919 in Nanhai County, Guangdong. He moved to Hong Kong and opened his first business during the late 1930s. He later to Macau in the 1940s and expanded his business. He aided the Chinese Communist Party during the 1950s by importing commodities from Macau and Hong Kong to mainland China.\n\nMa served as the Vice Chairman of the committee which drafted the basic laws for the Macau Special Administrative Region and had a hand in the territory's transfer. He was also President of the Macau Chamber of Commerce for life. Ma was a former member of the Legislative Assembly of Macau.\n\nMa was also the chairman of the Chinese Literature Foundation. Deng Xiaoping penned the title for one of Ma Man-kei's poems in 1998.\n\nMa died at a Beijing hospital on May 26, 2014, at the age of 95, where he had been hospitalized with heart disease for several years. His funeral was held at the Macau Forum.\n"}
{"id": "54679955", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54679955", "title": "Marco Fassone", "text": "Marco Fassone\n\nMarco Fassone (born August 17, 1964 in Pinerolo) is an Italian business executive and sports manager, former managing director of AC Milan. He assumed this role after Li Yonghong’s Luxembourg-based holding company, Rossoneri Sport Investment, completed the takeover of Milan from Italian media mogul and former prime minister Silvio Berlusconi.\n\nHe has previously held leadership positions at other football clubs, most notably, Juventus, Napoli and Inter Milan.\n"}
{"id": "17006515", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17006515", "title": "Matthias Bartgis", "text": "Matthias Bartgis\n\nMatthias Bartgis (1759 – 1825) was a pioneer German-American printer in Western Maryland, Virginia, and Pennsylvania.\n\nMatthias Bartgis was born June 3, 1759 in Lancaster, Pennsylvania to a German immigrant, Matthias Bartgis. He learned the art of printing from William Bradford in Philadelphia and initially established a print office in York, Pennsylvania. In 1778 he expanded his business to Frederick, Maryland and later to Winchester, Virginia as well. In 1788 Bartgis established a regular bi-weekly private mail system which stretched from York to Winchester to facilitate the delivery of his paper.\n\nUntil his retirement in 1820 Bartgis published various newspapers, pamphlets, forms, and books for the rapidly growing population of the Shenandoah, bringing printed culture to the area and including the large German minority.\n\nHis newspaper publications include: \n\n\n"}
{"id": "33400984", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33400984", "title": "Media Technology Monitor (MTM)", "text": "Media Technology Monitor (MTM)\n\nThe Media Technology Monitor (MTM) is an annual telephone survey and research product designed to monitor Canadians' use and adoption of new and existing technologies. The first MTM questionnaire was distributed in 2005 and now consists of two annual surveys conducted in the spring and fall of each year.\n\nThe survey features questions that focus on current and emerging media activities and technologies such as, television across multiple platforms, radio use social media, and online audio. The results of the Media Technology Monitor are published through a series of syndicated reports and multiple short, targeted theme reports. The Media Technology Monitor reports are distributed to government agencies, broadcasters, and other media stakeholders across Canada who subscribe to the service.\n\nThe MTM is designed, implemented and analyzed by the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation (CBC/Radio-Canada). In 2011, the MTM coordinated with Carleton University in Ottawa, Ontario to provide learning materials to the Communications Department.\n\nThe Media Technology Monitor has evolved from the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation's Quality Ratings Survey (QRS) that began in 1997 to measure Canadians' use and perception of Canada's conventional and specialty television channels as well as some media technology behaviours. In 2005, the MTM was launched with a specific focus on media technology adoption and use among Canadians. In 2010, an online MTM portal (www.mtm-otm.ca) was created to provide a more interactive experience for users. The portal allows users a quick and easy way to download MTM reports and trending data, as well as conduct custom analysis of the data with a proprietary data analysis tool.\n\nMTM-OTM Video on YouTube : https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oGlObksktTU&feature=youtu.be\n\nSince then the technology has become less and less used due to the rise of the internet and the easier, quicker and cheaper way to send our surveys to users which using certain methods is also further available for free. \n\nThe Media Technology Monitor is released in the fall and spring of each year and collects a total of 12,000 responses through telephone interviews with 6,000 Anglophones and 6,000 Francophones aged 18+. The response rate for both surveys is 30%.\n\n\nMTM survey households are selected by Random Digit Dialing (RDD) and the respondent within each household is randomly selected based on the most recent birthday method. The MTM uses telephone surveys to ensure that the respondents are representative of all Canadians by eliminating bias due to geographic location and connection to the Internet.\n\nThe Media Technology Monitor is revised every year to include emerging media trends and technologies. Recent MTM surveys have asked respondents about their behavior and consumption of:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40860865", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40860865", "title": "Michael Bickford", "text": "Michael Bickford\n\nMichael Bickford is an American businessman. He is the founder of Round Hill Capital, a real estate investment firm.\n\nMichael Bickford was born in Greenwich, Connecticut. His father, who was a polo player, owns a farm in Vermont. He graduated from Vanderbilt University in Nashville, Tennessee.\n\nMichael has over 18 years experience in private equity real estate. From 1995 to 2002, he worked as an acquisition professional for the Morgan Stanley Real Estate Funds. In 2002, he founded Round Hill Capital, a real estate investment firm which has invested approximately $6 billion of capital in European real estate since its inception.\n\nMichael plays high goal polo competitively in England, Spain, France and the United States. He started playing polo at a young age with his father in Vermont and today plays against the top players in the world by competing in the Queens Cup, British Open, Gold Cup in Spain, and the high goal tournaments in Wellington, FL. La Indiana is the team name and is considered one of the most competitive teams in the world today. Michael was ranked the best polo Amateur in the world last year.\n"}
{"id": "54934323", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54934323", "title": "Olivier Auroy", "text": "Olivier Auroy\n\nOlivier Auroy (born 25 April 1969 in Orléans, France) is a French writer and entrepreneur. Some of his works are published under the pen name Gabriel Malika.\n\nOlivier Auroy is a graduate from Science-Po Paris, class of 1991. He holds a master degree in advertising and marketing from CELSA (Paris, La Sorbonne).\n\nHe worked as product manager for Renault Italia until 1995 before moving on to a variety of naming, branding and design agencies. He is appointed Managing Director of Landor Dubai in 2006 and becomes CEO of FITCH Middle East (WPP) in 2009. Around that time, he launches BQ, a brand of sunglasses inspired by the Emirati burka.\n\nIn 2014, after having spent the better part of a decade in the Middle East, he is recruited by the French agency CBA as head of Corporate Branding. In June 2017, he becomes Joint Managing Director of Kantar Consulting.\n\nHis views are regularly reported in the press, especially in \"The Huffington Post\" and \"Marketing Society\".\n\nWhile in the Middle East, he publishes his first two novels under the pen name Gabriel Malika, so as to separate his identity as writer and as a businessman.\n\nHis first book, \"Les Meilleures intentions du monde\" (\"The Best Intentions in the World\"), published in 2011, tells the stories of men and women from all walks of life embarked on a journey off the coast of Dubai. This the first ever French novel to use Dubai as backdrop for its intrigue, which has been called a \"literary milestone\" in and of itself. In December 2017 this book was edited in an English digital version.\n\nThe second book, \"Qatarina\", is published in 2014. In 2022, US teacher John Summerbe flies to Quarabia, where the Football World Cup is being held. With this work of fiction, Oliver Auroy openly criticizes Qatar's bid to host the 2022 FIFA World Cup.\n\nHis third novel, \"Au nom d’Alexandre\" (\"In the name of Alexander\"), is published under his real name in 2016. Alexandre works in brand naming. He opens up to a young journalist and reflects on his professional life. Inspired by his own career, Oliver Auroy \"presents us with a delightful novel about an excentric scholar\".\n\nHis fourth novel, \"L'amour propre\" is published in April 2018 by « éditions Intervalles ».\n\nBetween 2012 and 2014, Oliver Auroy hosts debates and interviews other writers such as Jérôme Ferrari, Maxime Chattam, Dominique de Saint-Mars and Katherine Pancol during the Dubai's Literary Festival.\n\nOlivier Auroy is often featured on the RTL radio talk show \"La Curiosité est un vilain défaut\". He was a frequent panelist on \"Talking of Books\", a Dubai Eye radio program. While in Dubai, he also worked as literary critique for \"Le Mag du Moyen-Orient\" magazine.\n\nOlivier Auroy is married to an Italian native. Together, they have two daughters.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15206066", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15206066", "title": "Organizational conflict", "text": "Organizational conflict\n\nOrganizational conflict, or workplace conflict, is a state of discord caused by the actual or perceived opposition of needs, values and interests between people working together. Conflict takes many forms in organizations. There is the inevitable clash between formal authority and power and those individuals and groups affected. There are disputes over how revenues should be divided, how the work should be done, and how long and hard people should work. There are jurisdictional disagreements among individuals, departments, and between unions and management. There are subtler forms of conflict involving rivalries, jealousies, personality clashes, role definitions, and struggles for power and favor. There is also conflict within individuals – between competing needs and demands – to which individuals respond in different ways.\n\nConflict affecting organizations can occur in individuals, between individual and between groups. Conflicts within work groups are often caused by struggles over control, status, and scarce resources. Conflicts between groups in organizations have similar origins. The constructive resolution of such conflicts can most often be achieved through a rational process of problem solving, coupled with a willingness to explore issues and alternatives and to listen to each other.\n\nA personal conflict involves a conflict between two people, most often from a mutual dislike or personality clash.\nAccording to Boston University FSAO, \"Causes for workplace conflict can be personality or style differences and personal problems such as substance abuse, childcare issues, and family problems. Organizational factors such as leadership, management, budget, and disagreement about core values can also contribute.\" University of Colorado–Boulder cites as primary causes of workplace conflict as poor communication, different values, differing interests, scarce resources, personality clashes, and poor performance.\n\nMany difficulties in this area are beyond the scope of management and more in the province of a professional counselor or workplace mediator, but there are some aspects of personal conflict that managers should understand and some they can possibly help remedy. Social conflict refers to interpersonal, intragroup, and intergroup differences. Organizational conflict at the interpersonal level includes disputes between peers as well as supervisor-subordinate conflict.\n\nIt was pointed out that there is a basic incompatibility between the authority and structure of formal organizations and the human personality. Human behavior cannot be separated from the culture that surrounds it.\n\nConflict arises in groups because of the scarcity of freedom, position, and resources. People who value independence tend to resist the need for interdependence and, to some extent, conformity within a group. People who seek power therefore struggle with others for position or status within the group. Rewards and recognition are often perceived as insufficient and improperly distributed, and members are inclined to compete with each other for these prizes.\n\nIn western culture, winning is more acceptable than losing, and competition is more prevalent than cooperation, all of which tends to intensify intragroup conflict. Group meetings are often conducted in a win-lose climate — that is, individual or subgroup interaction is conducted for the purpose of determining a winner and a loser rather than for achieving mutual problem solving.\n\nIntergroup conflict occurs in four general forms. Horizontal strain involves competition between functions, for example, sales versus production, research and development versus engineering, purchasing versus legal, line versus staff, and so on. Vertical strain involves competition between hierarchical levels, for example, union versus management, foremen versus middle management, shop workers versus foremen. A struggle between a group of employees and management is an example of vertical strain or conflict. A clash between a sales department and production over inventory policy would be an example of horizontal strain.\n\nCertain activities and attitudes are typical in groups involved in a win-lose conflict. Each side closes ranks and prepares itself for battle. Members show increased loyalty and support for their own groups. Minor differences between group members tend to be smoothed over, and deviants are dealt with harshly. The level of morale in the groups increases and infuses everyone with competitive spirit. The power structure becomes better defined, as the \"real\" leaders come to the surface and members rally around the \"best\" thinkers and talkers.\n\nIn addition, each group tends to distort both its own views and those of the competing group. What is perceived as \"good\" in one's own position is emphasized, what is \"bad\" is ignored; the position of the other group is assessed as uniformly \"bad,\" with little \"good\" to be acknowledged or accepted. Thus, the judgment and objectivity of both groups are impaired. When such groups meet to \"discuss\" their differences, constructive, rational behavior is severely inhibited. Each side phrases its questions and answers in a way that strengthens its own position and disparages the other's. Hostility between the two groups increases; mutual understandings are buried in negative stereotypes.\n\nIt is easy to see that under the conditions described above, mutual solutions to problems cannot be achieved. As a result, the side having the greater power wins; the other side loses. Or the conflict may go unresolved, and undesirable conditions or circumstances continue. Or the conflict may be settled by a higher authority.\n\nNone of these outcomes is a happy one. Disputes settled on the basis of power, such as through a strike or a lockout in a labor-management dispute, are often deeply resented by the loser. Such settlements may be resisted and the winner defeated in underground ways that are difficult to detect and to counter. When this happens, neither side wins; both are losers. If the conflict is left unresolved, as when both sides withdraw from the scene, intergroup cooperation and effectiveness may be seriously impaired to the detriment of the entire organization. Disputes that are settled by higher authority also may cause resentment and what is called \"lose-lose\" consequences. Such settlements are invariably made on the basis of incomplete information — without data that the conflict itself obscures — and therefore are poor substitutes for mutually reasoned solutions. Again, both sides have lost. A specific approach to resolving intergroup conflict is outlined in the next chapter on organization development.\n\nOne fact of personal conflict includes the multiple roles people play in organizations.\nBehavioral scientists sometimes describe an organization as a system of position roles. Each member of the organization belongs to a role set, which is an association of individuals who share interdependent tasks and thus perform formally defined roles, which are further influenced both by the expectations of others in the role set and by one's own personality and expectations. For example, in a common form of classroom organization, students are expected to learn from instructors by listening to them, following their directions for study, taking exams, and maintaining appropriate standards of conduct. Instructors are expected to bring students high-quality learning materials, give lectures, write and conduct tests, and set a scholarly example. Another in this role set would be the dean of the school, who sets standards, hires and supervises faculty, maintains a service staff, readers and graders, and so on. The system of roles to which an individual belongs extends outside the organization as well, and influences their functioning within it. As an example, a person's roles as partner, parent, descendant, and church member are all intertwined with each other and with their set of organizational roles.\n\nAs a consequence, there exist opportunities for role conflict as the various roles interact with one another. Other types of role conflict occur when an individual receives inconsistent demands from another person; for example, they are asked to serve on several time-consuming committees at the same time that they are urged to get out more production in their work unit. Another kind of role strain takes place when the individual finds that they are expected to meet the opposing demands of two or more separate members of the organization. Such a case would be that of a worker who finds himself pressured by their boss to improve the quality of their work while their work group wants more production in order to receive a higher bonus share.\n\nThese and other varieties of role conflict tend to increase an individual's anxiety and frustration. Sometimes they motivate him to do more and better work. Other times they can lead to frustration and reduced efficiency.\n\nPassive aggressive behavior is a common response from workers and managers which is particularly noxious to team unity and productivity. In workers, it can lead to sabotage of projects and the creation of a hostile environment. In managers, it can end up stifling a team's creativity. De Angelis says \"It would actually make perfect sense that those promoted to leadership positions might often be those who on the surface appear to be agreeable, diplomatic and supportive, yet who are actually dishonest, backstabbing saboteurs behind the scenes.\"\n\nOffice romances can be a cause of workplace conflict. 96 percent of human resource professionals and 80 percent of executives said workplace romances are dangerous because they can lead to conflict within the organization. Public displays of affection can make co-workers uncomfortable and accusations of favoritism may occur, especially if it is a supervisor-subordinate relationship. If the relationship goes awry, one party may seek to exact revenge on the other.\n\nUnresolved conflict in the workplace has been linked to miscommunication resulting from confusion or refusal to cooperate, quality problems, missed deadlines or delays, increased stress among employees, reduced creative collaboration and team problem solving, disruption to work flow, decreased customer satisfaction, distrust, split camps, and gossip.\n\nThe win-lose conflict in groups may have some of the following negative effects:\n\nConflict is not always destructive. When it is destructive, however, managers need to understand and do something about it. A rational process for dealing with the conflict should be programmed. Such a process should include a planned action response on the part of the manager or the organization, rather than relying on a simple reaction or a change that occurs without specific action by management.\n\nInterpersonal conflict among people at work has been shown to be one of the most frequently noted stressors for employees. Conflict has been noted to be an indicator of the broader concept of workplace harassment. It relates to other stressors that might co-occur, such as role conflict, role ambiguity, and workload. It also relates to strains such as anxiety, depression, physical symptoms, and low levels of job satisfaction.\n\nGroup conflict does not always lead to negative consequences. The presence of a dissenting member or subgroup often results in more penetration of the group's problem and more creative solutions. This is because disagreement forces the members to think harder in an attempt to cope with what may be valid objections to general group opinion. But the group must know how to deal with differences that may arise.\n\nTrue interdependence among members leads automatically to conflict resolution in the group. Interdependence recognizes that differences will exist and that they can be helpful. Hence, members learn to accept ideas from dissenters (which does not imply agreeing with them), they learn to listen and to value openness, and they learn to share a mutual problem-solving attitude to ensure the exploration of all facets of a problem facing the group.\n\nIntergroup conflict between groups is a sometimes necessary, sometimes destructive, event that occurs at all levels and across all functions in organizations. Intergroup conflict may help generate creative tensions leading to more effective contributions to the organization's goals, such as competition between sales districts for the highest sales. Intergroup conflict is destructive when it alienates groups that should be working together, when it results in win-lose competition, and when it leads to compromises that represent less-than-optimum outcomes.\n\nConstantino helps organizations design their own, ad hoc conflict management systems,\nTosi, Rizzo, and Caroll suggested that improving organizational practices could help resolve conflicts, including establishing superordinate goals, reducing vagueness, minimizing authority- and domain-related disputes, improving policies, procedures and rules, re-apportioning existing resources or adding new, altering communications, movement of personnel, and changing reward systems.\n\nMost large organizations have a human resources department, whose tasks include providing confidential advice to internal \"customers\" in relation to problems at work. This could be seen as less risky than asking one's manager for help. HR departments may also provide an impartial person who can mediate disputes and provide an objective point of view. Another option is the introduction of the Ombudsman figure at the organizational level, charged with surveying common causes of conflict and suggesting structural improvements to address them.\n\n\nA trained conflict resolver can begin with an economical intervention, such as getting group members to clarify and reaffirm shared goals. If necessary, they move through a systematic series of interventions, such as testing the members' ability and willingness to compromise; resorting to confrontation, enforced counseling, and/or termination as last resorts.\n\nWorkplace conflict may include disputes between peers, supervisor-subordinate conflict or intergroup disputes. When disputes are not dealt with in a timely manner, greater efforts may be needed to solve them. Party-Directed Mediation (PDM) is a mediation approach particularly suited for disputes between colleagues or peers, especially those based on deep-seated interpersonal conflict or multicultural or multiethnic ones. The mediator listens to each party separately in a pre-caucus or pre-mediation before ever bringing them into a joint session. Part of the pre-caucus also includes coaching and role plays. The idea is that the parties learn how to converse directly with their adversary in the joint session. Some unique challenges arise when disputes involve supervisors and subordinates. The Negotiated Performance Appraisal (NPA) is a tool for improving communication between supervisors and subordinates and is particularly useful as an alternate mediation model because it preserves the hierarchical power of supervisors while encouraging dialogue and dealing with differences in opinion.\n\nManagement is presumed to be guided by a vision of the future. The manager reflects in their decision-making activities the values of the organization as they have developed through time, from the original founder-owner to the present top-management personnel. In navigating a path between the values of the organization and its objectives and goals, management has expectations concerning the organization's effectiveness and efficiency and frequently initiates changes within the organization. On other occasions, changes in the external environment — market demand, technology, or the political, social, or economic environment — require making appropriate changes in the activities of the organization. The organization faces these demands for change through the men and women who make up its membership, since organizational change ultimately depends on the willingness of employees and others to change their attitudes, behavior, their degree of knowledge and skill, or a combination of these.\n"}
{"id": "100544", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=100544", "title": "Pacific Maritime Association", "text": "Pacific Maritime Association\n\nThe Pacific Maritime Association (PMA) is a non-profit organization based in San Francisco, California that represents employers of the shipping industry on the Pacific coast.\n\nThe Pacific Maritime Association was founded in 1949 as a non-profit corporation. Its principal business is to negotiate and administer labor agreements with the International Longshore and Warehouse Union (ILWU). PMA’s 72 members are cargo carriers, terminal operators, and stevedores that operate along the U.S. West Coast.\n\nIn 1960, it negotiated the Mechanization and Modernization Agreement.\n\nAs of December 2012, PMA members employed nearly 14,000 registered longshore, clerk and foreman workers at 29 west coast ports in California, Oregon, and Washington, and thousands more “casual” workers, who typically work part-time. Since the 2002 agreement that brought the widespread use of technology to the West Coast, the registered workforce has increased by 32 percent.\n\nIn 2015, it negotiated a five-year contract with the ILWU.\n\n"}
{"id": "12328552", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12328552", "title": "Portfolio.com", "text": "Portfolio.com\n\nPortfolio.com was a website published by American City Business Journals that provideed news and information for small to mid-sized businesses (SMB). It was previously the website for the monthly business magazine Condé Nast Portfolio, published by Condé Nast from 2007 to 2009.\n\nPortfolio.com had several interactive features, including \"BizWatch,\" which had updates on companies and executives from selected news sources.\n\n\"Portfolio.com's\" April 2007 launch by Condé Nast was heavily reported on due, in part, to its large estimated budget reported to be between $100 million and $125 million (covering multiple years of operation), and to the boldness of the publisher to launch a business magazine at a time when similar magazines such as \"BusinessWeek\", \"Business 2.0\", \"Forbes\", and \"Fortune\" were struggling to sell advertising space.\n\nIn October 2008, the magazine reduced its staff by 20 percent, and changed to publishing only 10 times per year. The stand-alone website, portfolio.com, was merged with other Condé Nast Web sites, with advertising sales for the site handled by Wired Digital.\n\nThe magazine announced its closing on April 27, 2009. A sister company, American City Business Journals, took over the website. American City Business Journals is a division of Advance Publications and publishes 40 weekly newspapers about business in local communities and their companion websites. In June 2012 American City Business Journals re-branded the website to \"Upstart Business Journal\". Upstart Business Journal closed in 2016.\n\nJ. Jennings Moss was Portfolio.com's editor. He had been a Managing Editor at FoxNews.com and Senior Editor-News Manager for ABCNews.com among other roles.\n\nAs a print magazine, \"Portfolio\"'s 100-person editorial staff was led by editor-in-chief Joanne Lipman. During her 22-year tenure at \"The Wall Street Journal\", Lipman was involved in the founding of the \"Weekend Journal\", as well as the \"Personal Journal.\" The Managing Editor was Jacob Lewis, the Design Director was Robert Priest, the Articles Director was Kyle Pope.\n\nPortfolio.com published regular business news stories and comprehensive findings of American City Business Journals’ research studies, which were analyzed by Godfrey Phillips, Vice President for Research at American City Business Journals.\n\nFor the first time in 2010, \"Portfolio.com\" published the results of American City Business Journals’ “SMB Insights: The Business of Brands,” which rated more than 200 business brands across seven key attributes to determine overall rankings of brand strength. Additional studies included information on investing and brand-preferences by SMB owners, how SMB owners are using the Internet to improve their businesses and how SMB are increasingly leveraging wireless devices.\n\n\"Portfolio.com\" launched the U.S. Uncovered series, a monthly collection of exclusive, in-depth analyses of trends, produced by G. Scott Thomas, a nationally recognized demographer.\n"}
{"id": "48480892", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48480892", "title": "Priority Matrix", "text": "Priority Matrix\n\nPriority Matrix is a time management software application that is supported on a number of platforms, including Microsoft Windows, Mac OS X, Android, and iOS. It is based on the Eisenhower Method of arranging tasks by urgency and importance in a 2x2 matrix. Priority Matrix offers a cloud-based synchronization of data, allowing for data management across multiple devices. The application is also loosely based on David Allen's Getting Things Done methodology of improving productivity.\n\n\nAcross the various platforms, Priority Matrix has over 90,000 paid customers, and has been ranked among the 10 highest downloaded productivity apps in the Apple App Store. PC Magazine has ranked the iPad version of Priority Matrix among its 100 Best iPad Apps in 2011, 2012, and 2013. In addition, the product has garnered a 4 out of 5-star rating or better on the Apple App Store on both the iPhone and iPad platforms, with over 1,300 reviews. An Android version was added to the Play Store September 2013. As of 2014, this version had an average rating of 3.9, with 1,000-5,000 installs.\n\n"}
{"id": "12035381", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12035381", "title": "Pub Design Awards", "text": "Pub Design Awards\n\nThe Pub Design Awards (PDA) are an annual awards, established in 1983 and hosted by CAMRA in association with English Heritage and the Victorian Society, that are given to exceptional pubs in the UK that have been newly built/converted or have recently undergone building/conservation work.\n\nThe awards cover 4 Categories:\n\nThere is also a fifth award which is given independently of the above categories and cannot be entered directly; the Joe Goodwin Conservation Award, sometimes known as \" 'Joe Goodwin Award for best 'Street-Corner Local' \". This is chosen from all entries, not just winners of other categories.\n\nAny pub can only enter one category, entries may be from anywhere in the British Isles. Anyone can enter a pub for the awards.\n\nPhotographs and a typed description(Max. 2 A4 sheets) of the interior and exterior and what work was completed are required for entry, as are drawings of the interior plan and location map of the pub.\n\nTo qualify, the work must have been finished between 1 January and 31 December of the year before, e.g. For \"2007\", the work on the pub must have been completed sometime in \"2006\".\n\nJudging takes place initially by shortlisting, after which the selection will be visited, the panel comprises members of the CAMRA Pubs Group along with conservation experts and architects outside \"CAMRA\".\n\nNot every award is given every year(depending on the entries), but there are often mentions for highly commended pubs, and some years there are joint winners when there are a number of exceptional pubs in particular categories.\n\nThe winners receive a plaque which can be displayed publicly in the pub, permanently.\n\nWhere the entry reads \"None Awarded\", this means no award was given in that category for that year, even though there may be 'Highly Commended' pubs in that category(which are not listed here). \"None listed\", this means there was no information about that particular award. Sources: CAMRA website - PDA winners list; \"What's Brewing\" , Issue: April 2007, Article: \"Better pubs by design\"..\n\n"}
{"id": "44611091", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44611091", "title": "Rabinovitz/Rabb family", "text": "Rabinovitz/Rabb family\n\nThe Rabinovitz/Rabb family is a Jewish family engaged in business and philanthropy who built the Stop & Shop supermarket chain in the Boston area.\n\nIn 1891, Nachman Schleime and Yente Rabinovitz immigrated to the United States with their children from Malestovka, Russia. They settled in Boston, where Yente ran a grocery store in Boston's North End.\n\nThe eldest brother, Joseph Rabinovitz and his brother Max founded the Standard Grocery Company (known as \"Ecco\") in 1898. Their brothers Jacob (1885-1967) and Julius founded the Economy Grocery Stores in 1914. Joseph soon sold his share in Standard and invested in Ecco.\n\nJoseph and his wife Charlotte (Lottie) Wolf had four children: Sidney R. Rabb (1900-1985), Norman S. Rabb (1905-1997), Jeanette Rabb Solomon (Mrs. Sidney), and Irving William Rabb (1913-2011). The three brothers and one sister all attended Boston Latin School andGirls Latin School and Harvard University and joined Ecco. The three joined their last name to Rabb in 1946, the year the Economy Grocery Company was renamed Stop & Shop.\n\nSidney, the eldest, was the first to join Ecco at the age of 18. In 1920 he became co-owner with his father and uncle Joseph and Jacob. Sidney became chairman of the Board and chief executive officer in 1930, a position he retained until his death in 1985.\n\nNorman graduated from Harvard and joined Ecco in 1925, the year the company went public. He rose to the position of vice chairman and then senior vice president of Stop & Shop. Norman was youngest of the seven founders of [Brandeis University in 1948. He served as the first secretary of the board, and was chairman of the board from 1961 to 1967.\n\nIrving graduated from Boston Latin in 1930 and from Harvard College in 1934, attended Harvard Business School, then joined Ecco in 1935, the year it opened Boston's first supermarket. He rose to become president and then vice chairman of Stop & Shop. He became a trustee of Beth Israel Hospital in 1956, was president of the board from 1967 to 1970, and later served as chairman of the board. Irving, like his brothers, also served as a trustee and board member of several other Boston Jewish, arts, and medical institutions, including the Boston Symphony Orchestra, the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston, the Cambridge Community Foundation, the Dana Farber Cancer Institute, Hebrew College, Hebrew SeniorLife, the New England Conservatory of Music, and Temple Israel of Boston.\n\nSidney Rabb married Esther Cohn and had two daughters, Helene and Carol R. Carol, born in 1931, attended Tufts University and Harvard Business School before joining Stop & Shop in 1985. She married a fellow Stop & Shop employee, Avram J. Goldberg. Avram, born in 1930, became executive vice president, then president of the company in 1971 and chairman of the board when his father-in-law Sidney died in 1985. Carol, then executive vice president, became president of the company. They resigned from Stop & Shop soon after the company was purchased by Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co in 1988.\n\nNorman Rabb married Eleanor Epstein and had two daughters, Hope and Jane.\n\nIrving Rabb married Charlotte \"Dolly\" Frank and had two children, Betty Ann and James.\n\nBetty Ann Schafer née Rabb graduated from Radcliffe College and married Jack Grier Schafer in 1964. A resident of San Francisco, Betty Shafer is a trustee of Earthjustice, Brandeis Hillel Day School, The Coro Center for Civic Leadership, and SEO Scholars.\n\nJames Rabb became a gastroenterologist at Beth Israel. Dr. Rabb is an overseer of the Boston Symphony Orchestrea, the School of Nutrition Science and Policy at Tufts University and on the board of directors of Jewish Family and Children's Service. He married Melinda Alliker, who became an English professor at Brown University, and is a trustee of WGBH.\n\nIn 2013, the Jewish Family and Children's Service, Greater Boston Food Bank and Project Bread, with support from Betty and Jach Schafer and James and Melinda Rabb, launched the Greater Boston Hunger Network.\n\nCarol and Avram Goldberg had two children, Deborah Goldberg and Joshua Goldberg. Deborah married Michael Winter in 1987.\n"}
{"id": "23993841", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23993841", "title": "Railway interest", "text": "Railway interest\n\nThe railway interest was the Lords and MPs in the British parliament who held directorships or senior administrative posts in railway companies in the 19th century. They could be relied upon to vote in the interest of the railways when legislation aimed at controlling the companies' actions was proposed, and to persuade their fellow members, most of whom will have been railway shareholders, to follow suit. While the monopoly position of railways in inland transport remained unchallenged, the influence of the railway interest in resisting rates' control and safety improvements was a continuing concern both to free-trade liberals and to the aristocracy/landed-gentry with a dependence on farming. The 'interest' was particularly strong as divisions were often not whipped on party lines until the end of the century.\n\n'Railway members' of the House of Commons were listed in some early editions of Bradshaw's \"Almanack, directory and shareholder's guide\"s from 1847, and both Lords and MPs who were railway directors were listed continuously there from 1858 to 1923. Geoffrey Alderman shows that from 1868 to 1879 the number of MPs holding railway directorships was between 106 and 132 (out of 640 seats) that is, roughly up to a fifth of the house. This fell somewhat in 1880-1891 to 78-108, fell again in the 1890s to 65-79 and later in first decade of the 1900s to 34-50, which effectively saw the end of the interest's influence during the Liberal administration of 1906-1910.\n\n"}
{"id": "57404719", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57404719", "title": "Roberto Benedicto", "text": "Roberto Benedicto\n\nRoberto Salas Benedicto (April 17, 1917 - May 15, 2000) was a Filipino lawyer, ambassador, diplomat, and banker historically most remembered as a crony of President Ferdinand Marcos. Benedicto owned Philippine Exchange Company, the \"Philippines Daily Express\", Radio Philippines Network, Banahaw Broadcasting Corporation and Intercontinental Broadcasting Corporation. Benedicto was the Philippines' Ambassador to Japan from 1972 to 1978.\n\nAt the prime of his career, Benedicto's empire consisted of 85 corporations, 106 sugar farms, 14 haciendas, other agricultural lands, 17 radio stations, 16 television stations, 2 telecommunications networks, 7 buildings, 10 vessels and 5 aircraft. He also owned 14 hectares of real estate in Bacolod City, 13.5 billion shares in Oriental Petroleum, and membership shares in golf and country clubs estimated at . Overseas, he owned a sugar mill in Venezuela, a trading company in Madrid, bank deposits, mansions, and limousines in California. Marcos's executive secretary estimated that in 1983, Benedicto's net worth was $800 million.\n\nBenedicto, born in La Carlota, Negros Occidental on April 17, 1917, was a contemporary of Ferdinand Marcos, becoming his classmate and fraternity brother while studying at the University of the Philippines College of Law.\n\nRoberto Benedicto was Marcos's former classmate at the UP Law School, and his Upsilon Sigma Phi fraternity brother.\n\nWhen Marcos became president, Benedicto became part of his small circle in Malacañan, one of the few with full access even to private quarters. Marcos would eventually give power-of-attorney to Benedicto, allowing him to deal with corporations on the Marcoses' behalf. \n\nIt was with Roberto Benedicto's help that Ferdinand and Imelda Marcos opened their first Swiss Bank accounts in 1968, funneling money which the Swiss Federal Court would later determine to be \"of criminal origin\". This was the infamous \"Saunders Account\" with Credit Suisse, which Ferdinand Marcos signed under the false name of \"William Saunders\" and which Imelda Marcos signed as \"Jane Ryan\".\n\nBenedicto's business interests grew significantly when Ferdinand Marcos became president. Marcos appointed him as the Philippines' Ambassador to Japan and put him in charge of the Philippine National Bank (PNB), the Philippines' largest state-owned bank. \n\nIn his role as PNB Chairman, Benedicto permitted huge loans for business of other cronies and associates. He used PNB to grant loans for his shipping company, Northern Lines, and his sugar business. His role as PNB Chair enabled him to gain control of additional banks, and overcome business competitors by dictating the terms of loans. \n\nBenedicto's appointment as Japanese ambassador allowed him to develop high-level contacts in Japan. He secured more than M in World War II reparations, which he allegedly used to promote his private interests.\n\nWorking with President Marcos, they ratified the Treaty of Amity, Commerce and Navigation between Japan and the Philippines, which gave Japan most-favored nation status. This agreement gave Japan an advantage in using the country's natural resources, which was the primary reason the Philippine Senate did not ratify the treaty for 13 years.\n\nHis ambassadorship also gave him insider knowledge regarding the business interests of the Japanese, which allowed him to arrange lucrative joint-venture operations between Japanese corporations and his own..\n\nWhen the Marcoses were exiled to the United States in February 1986, the American authorities confiscated papers that they brought with them. The confiscated documents revealed that since the 1970s, Marcos and his associates received commissions of 10 to 15 percent of Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund loans from about fifty Japanese contractors. These revelations became very controversial and became known in Japan as the (). The lessons from the Marcos scandal were among the reasons why Japan created its 1992 ODA Charter.\n\nThe most-notable expansion in Benedicto's business holdings during the Marcos dictatorship was in his establishment of a monopoly in the Philippines' sugar industry beginning in 1974, which earned him the monicker of \"Sugar King\".\n\nMarcos's proclamation of martial law allowed Benedicto to take control of the Philippine Exchange Company (Philex), which monopolized local hacienderos' (sugar barons) international trade. Benedicto used Philex to buy cheap sugar from local producers and sell it abroad for large profits. Aided by Marcos's presidential decrees under martial law, Benedicto later seized control of the Philippine Sugar Commission, which accounted for 27% of the Philippines' dollar earnings at the time. In turn, a big segment of the profits from this sugar monopoly was deposited in a \"special fund\" which was \"subject to the disposition of the president for public purposes.\"\n\nMartial law also gave Benedicto a media and telecommunications monopoly in the Philippines. Before martial law, he had transformed a small radio station that he owned into the Kanlaon Broadcasting System (KBS) (now Radio Philippines Network), a media empire that consisted of three television stations, 15 radio stations and a national newspaper called the \"Daily Express\". \n\nIn 1972, news and media outlets were forced to cease operations, and their facilities were taken over by the military. However, Benedicto was allowed to continue his broadcasts, to serve as the voice of the Marcos dictatorship. His newspaper, the \"Daily Express\", was the first to put out an edition after martial law was announced, three days later on September 25. This monopoly secured Benedicto's political ties with Marcos and generated income as the owner of the sole running television and radio stations. Benedicto assigned Enrique Romualdez, a relative of the first lady, as chief editor of the paper to ensure that it held the views of the regime. \n\nKBS was the only full-color TV channel in the country, and it was later taken over by Imee Marcos. Benedicto expanded his media business by acquiring Intercontinental Broadcasting Corporation (IBC) which had five television stations, and nine radio stations. His growing media empire received government favors from the Marcos administration, with the president granting several Letters of Instruction (LOIs) for Benedicto's benefit. In 1977, Marcos issued LOI 640 to allow Banahaw Broadcasting Corporation, one of Benedicto's companies, to import $3 million worth of TV transmission equipment and facilities, without paying taxes or tariffs. The LOI also allowed tax-free importation of $15 million worth of 12-inch black-and-white television sets for the next five years, and allowed Banahaw to commission a local company to assemble the television sets, justifying that these sets would be distributed to \"critical areas\" at lower prices. The LOI then instructed government agencies to market the TV sets. The ministries of Public Information, National Defense, Education and Culture were instructed to use the sets for their public information and educational projects.\n\nIn 1982, Marcos issued LOI 640-A, to extend the scope and duration of the earlier order. The new instruction directed government ministries to distribute Benedicto's television sets in the countryside areas \"on matters pertaining to peace and order\". Due to the tax breaks, Benedicto was able to sell 12-inch black-and-white television sets cheaper than the competitors who had to pay taxes. The Consumer Electronic Products Manufacturers Association (CEPMA) complained that the television sets meant for rural areas were being sold in Manila, greatly affecting their market.\n\nBenedicto entered into a compromise agreement with the Presidential Commission on Good Government in 1990, surrendering about  million worth of Swiss bank deposits, shares in 32 corporations including \"100% of the California Overseas Bank shares\", cash dividends in his firms, and 51 percent of his agricultural land holdings.\n\nBenedicto died on May 15, 2000.\n\n"}
{"id": "58902", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58902", "title": "Rock and Roll Hall of Fame", "text": "Rock and Roll Hall of Fame\n\nThe Rock and Roll Hall of Fame, located on the shore of Lake Erie in downtown Cleveland, Ohio, recognizes and archives the history of the best-known and most influential artists, producers, engineers, and other notable figures who have had some major influence on the development of rock and roll. The Rock and Roll Hall of Fame Foundation was established on April 20, 1983, by Atlantic Records founder and chairman Ahmet Ertegun. In 1986, Cleveland was chosen as the Hall of Fame's permanent home.\n\nFounder Ahmet Ertegun assembled a team that included attorney Suzan Evans, \"Rolling Stone\" magazine editor and publisher Jann S. Wenner, attorney Allen Grubman, and record executives Seymour Stein, Bob Krasnow, and Noreen Woods. The Foundation began inducting artists in 1986, but the Hall of Fame still had no home. The search committee considered several cities, including Philadelphia (home of Bill Haley and \"American Bandstand\"), Memphis (home of Sun Studios and Stax Records), Detroit (home of Motown Records), Cincinnati (home of King Records), New York City, and Cleveland.\n\nCleveland lobbied for the museum, citing that WJW disc jockey Alan Freed both coined the term \"rock and roll\" and heavily promoted the new genre—and that Cleveland was the location of Freed's Moondog Coronation Ball, the first major rock and roll concert. In addition, Cleveland cited radio station WMMS, which played a key role in breaking several major acts in the U.S. during the 1970s and 1980s, including David Bowie, who began his first U.S. tour in the city, Bruce Springsteen, Roxy Music, and Rush among many others. Cleveland was also one of the premier tour stops for most rock bands.\n\nCivic leaders in Cleveland pledged $65 million in public money to fund the construction. A petition drive was signed by 600,000 fans favoring Cleveland over Memphis, and Cleveland ranked first in a 1986 \"USA Today\" poll asking where the Hall of Fame should be located. On May 5, 1986, the Hall of Fame Foundation chose Cleveland as the permanent home of the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame and Museum. Sam Phillips of Sun Studios fame and many others were stunned and disappointed that it ended up in Cleveland. \"The hall of fame should've been in Memphis, certainly,\" wrote Peter Guralnick, author of an acclaimed two-volume Elvis Presley biography.\n\nCleveland may also have been chosen as the organization's site because the city offered the best financial package. As \"The Plain Dealer\" music critic Michael Norman noted, \"It was $65 million... Cleveland wanted it here and put up the money.\" Co-founder Jann Wenner later said, \"One of the small sad things is we didn't do it in New York in the first place,\" but then added, \"I am absolutely delighted that the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame and Museum is in Cleveland.\"\n\nDuring early discussions on where to build the Hall of Fame and Museum, the Foundation's board considered the Cuyahoga River. Ultimately, the chosen location was along East Ninth Street in downtown Cleveland by Lake Erie, east of Cleveland Stadium.\n\nAt one point in the planning phase, when a financing gap existed, planners proposed locating the Rock Hall in the then-vacant May Company Building, but finally decided to commission architect I. M. Pei to design a new building. Initial CEO Dr. Larry R. Thompson facilitated I. M. Pei in designs for the site. Pei came up with the idea of a tower with a glass pyramid protruding from it. The museum tower was initially planned to stand 200 ft (61 m) high, but had to be cut down to 162 ft (49 m) due to its proximity to Burke Lakefront Airport. The building's base is approximately 150,000 square feet (14,000 m2). The groundbreaking ceremony took place on June 7, 1993. Pete Townshend, Chuck Berry, Billy Joel, Sam Phillips, Ruth Brown, Sam Moore of Sam and Dave, Carl Gardner of the Coasters and Dave Pirner of Soul Asylum all appeared at the groundbreaking.\n\nThe museum was dedicated on September 1, 1995, with the ribbon being cut by an ensemble that included Yoko Ono and Little Richard, among others, before a crowd of more than 10,000 people. The following night an all-star concert was held at the stadium. It featured Chuck Berry, Bob Dylan, Al Green, Jerry Lee Lewis, Aretha Franklin, Bruce Springsteen, Iggy Pop, John Fogerty, John Mellencamp, and many others.\n\nIn addition to the Hall of Fame inductees, the museum documents the entire history of rock and roll, regardless of induction status. Hall of Fame inductees are honored in a special exhibit located in a wing that juts out over Lake Erie.\n\nSince 1986, the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame has selected new inductees. The formal induction ceremony has been held in New York City 26 times (1986–92, 1994–96, 1998–2008, 2010–11, 2014, 2016 and 2017); twice in Los Angeles (1993 and 2013); and four times in the Hall of Fame's home in Cleveland (1997, 2009, 2012 and 2015). Beginning in 2018, the induction ceremonies will alternate each year between Cleveland and New York.\nThe 2009 and 2012 induction weeks were made possible by a public–private partnership between the City of Cleveland, the State of Ohio, the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame, and local foundations, corporations, civic organizations and individuals. Collectively these entities invested $5.8 million in 2009 and $7.9 million in 2012 to produce a week of events, including free concerts, a gospel celebration, exhibition openings, free admission to the museum, and induction ceremonies filled with both fans and VIPs at Public Hall.\nMillions viewed the television broadcast of the Cleveland inductions; tens of thousands traveled to Ohio during induction week to participate in Induction-related events. The economic impact of the 2009 induction week activities was more than $13 million, and it provided an additional $20 million in media exposure for the region. The 2012 induction week yielded similar results.\n\nThere are seven levels in the building. On the lower level is the Ahmet M. Ertegun Exhibition Hall, the museum's main gallery. It includes exhibits on the roots of rock and roll (gospel, blues, rhythm & blues and folk, country and bluegrass). It also features exhibits on cities that have had a major impact on rock and roll: Memphis, Detroit, London and Liverpool, San Francisco, Los Angeles, New York and Seattle. There are exhibits about soul music, the Fifties, Sun Records, Atlantic Records, hip hop music, Cleveland's rock and roll legacy, the music of the Midwest, rock and roll radio and dee-jays, and the many protests against rock and roll. This gallery also has exhibits that focus on individual artists, including the Beatles, the Rolling Stones, Jimi Hendrix and others. Finally, the Ahmet M. Ertegun Exhibition Hall includes two theaters, one of which features a film about the roots of rock and roll and one that features films on various subjects.\n\nThe first floor of the museum is the entrance level. It includes a cafe, a stage that the museum uses for various special performances and events throughout the year, and a section called \"Backstage Stories.\" The second floor includes several interactive kiosks that feature programs on one-hit wonders and the Songs That Shaped Rock and Roll. This level also includes a gallery with artifact-filled exhibits about Les Paul, Alan Freed, Sam Phillips and the evolution of audio technology.\n\nVisitors enter the Hall of Fame section of the museum on the third floor. This section includes \"The Power of Rock Experience,\" which includes one of Jonathan Demme's final works, a film shown in the Connor Theater. The film includes musical highlights from some of the Hall's induction ceremonies. Visitors exit the Hall of Fame section on the fourth floor. That level features the Foster Theater, a state-of-the-art 3-D theater that is used for special events and programs.\n\nFinally, the top two levels of the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame feature large, temporary exhibits. Over the years, numerous exhibits have been installed on these two levels, including exhibits about Elvis Presley, hip-hop, the Supremes, the Who, U2, John Lennon, the Clash, Bruce Springsteen, \"Women Who Rock\", and the Rolling Stones.\n\nDesigned by I. M. Pei and structurally engineered by Leslie E. Robertson Associates, the building rises above the shores of Lake Erie. It is a combination of geometric forms and cantilevered spaces that are anchored by a 162-foot tower. The tower supports a dual-triangular-shaped glass \"tent\" that extends (at its base) onto a 65,000-square-foot plaza that provides a main entry facade.\n\nThe building houses more than 55,000 square feet of exhibition space, as well as administrative offices, a store, and a café.\n\n\"In designing this building,\" Pei said, \"it was my intention to echo the energy of rock and roll. I have consciously used an architectural vocabulary that is bold and new, and I hope the building will become a dramatic landmark for the city of Cleveland and for fans of rock and roll around the world.\" \n\nSince 1997, the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame has featured numerous temporary exhibits that range in size from major exhibits that fill the top two floors of the museum to smaller exhibits that are often installed in the main exhibition hall on the lower level.\n\nThe museum's first major exhibit opened on May 10, 1997. It was called \"I Want to Take You Higher: The Psychedelic Era, 1965 – 1969\". It included artifacts from numerous artists, including John Lennon, Eric Clapton, John Sebastian, the Jefferson Airplane, and Janis Joplin, as well as artifacts related to the Monterey International Pop Festival and Woodstock.\n\nThat exhibit was followed by \"Elvis is in the Building\", an exhibit about the \"King of Rock and Roll\", which ran from August 8, 1998, to September 5, 1999. This year-long tribute was the first ever special exhibit devoted to a single artist, Elvis Presley, the first inductee into the RRHOF in 1986. Graceland supplied a significant selection of representative artifacts for this special tribute spanning Elvis' life and legendary career. Next, the museum curated \"Roots, Rhymes and Rage: The Hip-Hop Story\". That was the first major museum exhibit to focus on hip-hop. It ran from November 11, 1999, to August 6, 2000. It was followed by \"Rock Style\", an exhibit that focused on rock and roll and fashion. It featured clothing from Buddy Holly to Alice Cooper, from Ray Charles to David Bowie and from Smokey Robinson to Sly Stone. After it closed in Cleveland, \"Rock Style\" traveled to other museums in the U.S.\nOther temporary exhibits have included \"Lennon: His Life and Work\", which ran from October 20, 2000, to January 1, 2003. It was followed by \"In the Name of Love: Two Decades of U2\" and then \"Reflections: The Mary Wilson Supreme Legacy Collection\". A major exhibition on display during the Republican National Convention in Cleveland in 2016 was \"Louder than Words: Rock, Power, Politics.\"\n\nOther large temporary exhibits have focused on the Clash (\"Revolution Rock: The Story of the Clash\"), the Doors (\"Break on Through: The Lasting Legacy of the Doors\"), the Who's \"Tommy\" (\"Tommy: The Amazing Journey\"), and Bruce Springsteen (\"From Asbury Park to the Promised Land: The Life and Music of Bruce Springsteen\"). Another thematic temporary exhibit focused on the role of women in rock and roll (\"Women Who Rock: Vision, Passion, Power\"). Many of these exhibits travel to other museums after closing in Cleveland. The museum's current major temporary exhibit is about the history of the magazine Rolling Stone.\n\nThe Rock and Roll Hall of Fame also curates many smaller temporary exhibits. Over the years, these exhibits have focused on such topics as the Vans Warped Tour, the Concert for Bangladesh, Woodstock's 40th anniversary, Austin City Limits, the Monterey International Pop Festival, Roy Orbison, Tom Petty and the Heartbreakers, Marty Stuart, Paul Simon, Graham Nash, and John Mellencamp.\n\nThe museum also devotes exhibits to photography and artwork related to rock and roll. Among the photographers whose work has been featured at the Hall of Fame are George Kalinsky, Alfred Wertheimer, Tommy Edwards, Kevin Mazur, Janet Macoska, Lynn Goldsmith, Mike McCartney, Robert Alford, and George Shuba. The museum also featured the artwork of Philip Burke in one of its temporary exhibits, and a later exhibit featured Herb Ritts.\n\nThe Rock and Roll Hall of Fame and Museum produces numerous public programs, including concerts, interviews, lectures, film screenings, and other events that help tell the story of rock and roll.\nEvery February, the museum celebrates Black History Month by hosting concerts, film screenings and lectures that illustrate the important role African-Americans have played in the history of rock and roll. Since the program began in 1996, such artists as Robert Lockwood, Jr., the Temptations, Charles Brown, Ruth Brown, the Ohio Players, Lloyd Price, Little Anthony and the Imperials, and Al Green have appeared at the museum during Black History Month.\n\nAnother program is the Hall of Fame Series. This series began in April 1996 and features interviews with Hall of Fame inductees in a rare and intimate settings, most often in the Museum's Foster Theater. The interviews are usually followed by a question-and-answer session with the audience and, often, a performance by the inductee. Among the inductees who have taken part in this series are Darryl \"DMC\" McDaniels of Run-D.M.C., Lloyd Price, Marky Ramone, Seymour Stein, Ray Manzarek of the Doors, Ronnie Spector, Bootsy Collins, Ann and Nancy Wilson of Heart, and Jorma Kaukonen of the Jefferson Airplane.\n\nA similar program is the Legends Series. The only real difference between this program and the Hall of Fame Series is that it features artists who have not yet been inducted into the Hall of Fame. Peter Hook of Joy Division, Spinderella of Salt n Pepa, Tommy James, and the Chi-Lites are among the artists who have participated in the Legends Series.\n\nThe Rock and Roll Hall of Fame and Museum's most acclaimed program is the annual American Music Masters series. Each year the museum celebrates one of the Hall's inductees with a week-long series of programs that include interviews, film screenings, and, often, a special exhibit. The celebration ends with an all-star concert held at a Cleveland theater. The concerts include a diverse mix of artists, from Hall of Fame inductees to contemporary musicians.\n\nThe American Music Masters series began in 1996 with \"Hard Travelin': The Life and Legacy of Pete Seeger\". Since then, the programs have honored the following inductees: Jimmie Rodgers (1997), Robert Johnson (1998), Louis Jordan (1999), Muddy Waters (2000), Bessie Smith (2001), Hank Williams (2002), Buddy Holly (2003), Lead Belly (2004), Sam Cooke (2005), Roy Orbison (2006), Jerry Lee Lewis (2007), Les Paul (2008), Janis Joplin (2009), Fats Domino and Dave Bartholomew (2010), Aretha Franklin (2011), and Chuck Berry (2012).\n\nHall of Fame museum curator James Henke, along with \"the museum's curatorial staff and numerous rock critics and music experts\", created an unordered list of \"500 Songs That Shaped Rock and Roll\". The list is part of a permanent exhibit at the museum, and was envisioned as part of the museum from its opening in 1995. It contains songs recorded from the 1920s through the 1990s. The oldest song on the list is \"Wabash Cannonball\", written circa 1882 and credited to J. A. Roff. Since then, however, an additional 160 songs have been added, and the list is now simply referred to as \"The Songs That Shaped Rock and Roll\". The most recent songs on the list are Gnarls Barkley's \"Crazy\" and My Chemical Romance's \"Welcome to the Black Parade\", both released in 2006. The Beatles and the Rolling Stones are the most represented on the 660-song list, with eight songs each.\n\n\nThe Rock and Roll Hall of Fame celebrated its 25th anniversary with a concert series over two days on October 29 and 30, 2009 at Madison Square Garden in New York. The celebration included performances by Jerry Lee Lewis, U2, Patti Smith, Bruce Springsteen & the E Street Band, Simon & Garfunkel, Dion DiMucci, Metallica, James Taylor, Bonnie Raitt, Fergie, Mick Jagger, Lou Reed, Ray Davies, Ozzy Osbourne, Paul Simon, Jeff Beck, Buddy Guy, Aretha Franklin, Stevie Wonder, Sting, Little Anthony & the Imperials, and Crosby, Stills and Nash. The first night ran almost six hours with Bruce Springsteen & the E Street Band closing the concert with special guests John Fogerty, Darlene Love, Tom Morello, Sam Moore, Jackson Browne, Peter Wolf, and Billy Joel.\n\nArtists are inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame at an annual induction ceremony. Over the years, the majority of the ceremonies have been held at the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel in New York City. However, on January 12, 1993, the ceremony was held in Los Angeles, and was held there again in 2013. On May 6, 1997, about a year and a half after the opening of the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame and Museum, the ceremony was held in Cleveland. It returned to Cleveland in 2009 and again in 2012. Current plans call for the ceremony to be in Cleveland every three years. \nGenerally, the number of inductees ranges from about a half-dozen to a dozen. Virtually all living inductees have attended the ceremonies, and they are presented with their Hall of Fame award by an artist who was influenced by that inductee's music. Both the presenter and the inductee speak at the ceremonies, which also include numerous musical performances, by both the inductees and the presenters.\nThe first group of inductees, inducted on January 23, 1986, included Elvis Presley, James Brown, Little Richard, Fats Domino, Ray Charles, Chuck Berry, Sam Cooke, the Everly Brothers, Buddy Holly, and Jerry Lee Lewis. Robert Johnson, Jimmie Rodgers, and Jimmy Yancey were inducted as Early Influences, John Hammond received the Lifetime Achievement Award and Alan Freed and Sam Phillips were inducted as Non-Performers.\n\nA nominating committee composed of rock and roll historians selects names for the \"Performers\" category (singers, vocal groups, bands, and instrumentalists of all kinds), which are then voted on by roughly five hundred experts across the world. Those selected to vote include academics, journalists, producers, and others with music industry experience. Artists become eligible for induction 25 years after the release of their first record. Criteria include the influence and significance of the artists' contributions to the development and perpetuation of rock and roll. To be selected for induction, performers must receive the highest number of votes, and also greater than 50% of the votes. Around five to seven performers are inducted each year.\n\nIn 2012, six additional groups, the Miracles, the Famous Flames, the Comets, the Blue Caps, the Midnighters, and the Crickets, were inducted as performers by a special committee due to the controversial exclusions when their lead singer was inducted. \"There was a lot of discussion about this,\" said Terry Stewart, a member of the nominating committee. \"There had always been conversations about why the groups weren't included when the lead singers were inducted. Very honestly, nobody could really answer that question – it was so long ago... We decided we'd sit down as an organization and look at that. This is the result.\"\n\nEarly Influences includes artists from earlier eras, primarily country, folk, jazz, and blues, whose music inspired and influenced rock and roll artists. Other notable artists that have been inducted as Early Influences include Bill Kenny & The Ink Spots, country musicians Jimmie Rodgers and Hank Williams, blues musicians Howlin' Wolf and Muddy Waters, and jazz musicians Jelly Roll Morton and Louis Armstrong. After Nat King Cole and Billie Holiday in 2000, no one was inducted in this category until 2009, when rockabilly singer Wanda Jackson was selected. Unlike earlier inductees in this category, Jackson's career almost entirely took place after the traditional 1955 start of the \"rock era\".\n\nFormerly the \"Non-Performers\" award, this category encompasses those who primarily work behind the scenes in the music industry, including record label executives, songwriters, record producers, disc jockeys, concert promoters and music journalists. This category has had at least one inductee every year except 2007 and 2009. Following the death of the Hall of Fame's co-founder Ahmet Ertegun, this award was renamed in his honor in 2008.\n\nFormerly the \"Sidemen\" award, this category was introduced in 2000 and honors veteran session and concert players who are selected by a committee composed primarily of producers. The category was dormant from 2004 through 2007 and re-activated in 2008. This honor was renamed the \"Award for Musical Excellence\" in 2010. According to Joel Peresman, the president of the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame Foundation, \"This award gives us flexibility to dive into some things and recognize some people who might not ordinarily get recognized.\"\n\nThe Rock and Roll Hall of Fame and Museum's Library and Archives is the world's most comprehensive repository of materials related to the history of rock and roll. The Library and Archives is located in a new building on the Metro Campus of Cuyahoga Community College in Cleveland's Campus District.\n\nThe Library and Archives' mission is to collect, preserve and provide access to these materials. The Library and Archives operates on two levels: people may come into the library and read the books and magazines, listen to music and other recordings, and watch videos and films. More serious scholars, historians and journalists may also make an appointment for access to the archival collections under the supervision of the staff archivists.\n\nThe library is composed of books, academic dissertations, and other references. It also includes popular magazines, scholarly journals and trade publications; commercial audio and video recordings, and research databases.\n\nThe archival collections include music-business records from record executives, artist managers, labels, historic venues, recording studios, specialists in stage design and lighting, and long-running concert tours. The collections also contain important individual items, such as personal letters penned by Aretha Franklin and Madonna, handwritten working lyrics by Jimi Hendrix and LL Cool J, papers from music journalists such as Sue Cassidy Clark, and rare concert recordings from CBGB in the 1970s.\n\nThe most frequent criticism of the Hall of Fame is that the nomination process is controlled by a few individuals who are not themselves musicians, such as founder Jann Wenner (co-founder and editor-in-chief of \"Rolling Stone\" magazine), former foundation director Suzan Evans, and writer Dave Marsh, reflecting their personal tastes rather than the views of the rock world as a whole. A former member of the nominations board once commented that \"At one point Suzan Evans lamented the choices being made because there weren't enough big names that would sell tickets to the dinner. That was quickly remedied by dropping one of the doo-wop groups being considered in favor of a 'name' artist ... I saw how certain pioneering artists of the '50s and early '60s were shunned because there needed to be more name power on the list, resulting in '70s superstars getting in before the people who made it possible for them. Some of those pioneers still aren't in today.\"\nSister Rosetta Tharpe is often considered \"The Godmother/Grandmother of Rock & Roll\", but was not chosen for induction until 2017. Velvet Underground drummer Maureen Tucker has dismissed the Hall of Fame as the \"Hall of Lame\".\n\nThere is also controversy in the lack of transparency in the selection process. Janet Morrissey of \"The New York Times\" wrote:\n\"With fame and money at stake, it's no surprise that a lot of backstage lobbying goes on. Why any particular act is chosen in any particular year is a mystery to performers as well as outsiders – and committee members say they want to keep it that way.\"\n\nJon Landau, the chairman of the nominating committee, says they prefer it that way. \"We've done a good job of keeping the proceedings nontransparent. It all dies in the room.\"\n\nAccording to Fox News, petitions with tens of thousands of signatures were also being ignored, and some groups that were signed with certain labels or companies or were affiliated with various committee members have even been put up for nomination with no discussion at all. The committee has also been accused of largely ignoring certain genres. According to author Brett Milano, \"entire genres get passed over, particularly progressive rock, '60s Top 40, New Orleans funk and a whole lot of black music.\" In contrast, since the mid-2000s (decade), numerous hip hop artists have been inducted, including Tupac Shakur (class of 2017), N.W.A (class of 2016) and Grandmaster Flash and the Furious Five (class of 2007).\n\nAnother criticism is that too many artists are inducted. In fifteen years, 97 different artists were inducted. A minimum of 50% of the vote is needed to be inducted; although, the final percentages are not announced and a certain number of inductees (five in 2011) is set before the ballots are shipped. The committee usually nominates a small number of artists (12 in 2010) from an increasing number of different genres. Several voters, including Joel Selvin, himself a former member of the nominating committee, did not submit their ballots in 2007 because they did not feel that any of the candidates were truly worthy.\n\nMembers of the British punk rock band The Sex Pistols, inducted in 2006, refused to attend the ceremony, calling the museum \"a piss stain\" and \"urine in wine\".\n\nIn BBC Radio 6 Music's Annual John Peel Lecture in 2013, the singer Charlotte Church accused the museum of gender bias, stating, \"Out of 295 acts and artists in the Rock n' Roll Hall of Fame, 259 are entirely male, meaning that Tina Weymouth's part in Talking Heads makes them one of the 36 female acts.\" In fact, the actual percentage of woman inductees is 8.5%. Combining all the categories, there have been 719 inductees, out of which 61 have been women, none of whom has been inducted more than once or awarded the Lifetime Achievement.\n\n2016 inductee Steve Miller voiced a litany of criticisms directed at the hall, both during his induction speech and, especially, in interviews after it. His complaints included a lack of female inductees, not enough support by the hall for music education, and treatment of inductees at the award ceremony.\n\nOn March 14, 2007, two days after that year's induction ceremony, Roger Friedman of Fox News published an article claiming that the Dave Clark Five should have been the fifth inductee, as they had more votes than inductee Grandmaster Flash and the Furious Five. The article went on to say \"Jann Wenner used a technicality about the day votes were due in. In reality, The Dave Clark Five got six more votes than Grandmaster Flash. But he felt we couldn't go another year without a rap act.\"\n\nThe Rock and Roll Hall of Fame Foundation would later deny fixing the vote, although they did not deny that late votes were received, saying, \"No. There is a format and rules and procedure. There is a specific time when the votes have to be in, and then they are counted. The bands with the top five votes got in.\" The Dave Clark Five was subsequently nominated again and then inducted the following year.\n\nIn June 2007, Monkee Peter Tork complained to the \"New York Post\" that Wenner had blackballed the Monkees, commenting:\n\nIn a Facebook post, fellow Monkee Michael Nesmith stated that he does not know if the Monkees belong in the Hall of Fame because he can only see the impact of the Monkees from the inside, and further stated: \"I can see the HOF (Hall of Fame) is a private enterprise. It seems to operate as a business, and the inductees are there by some action of the owners of the Enterprise. The inductees appear to be chosen at the owner's pleasure. This seems proper to me. It is their business in any case. It does not seem to me that the HOF carries a public mandate, nor should it be compelled to conform to one.\"\n\nVarious magazines and news outlets, such as \"Time\", NPR radio, \"The Christian Science Monitor\", \"Goldmine\" magazine, Yahoo Music and MSNBC have argued that the Monkees belong in the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43954610", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43954610", "title": "Samuel Ioraer Ortom", "text": "Samuel Ioraer Ortom\n\nSamuel Ioraer Ortom is a Nigerian, philanthropist, businessman, politician and administrator. He was a Minister of State Trade and Investments in Nigeria during the presidency of Goodluck Jonathan. Ortom was elected governor of Benue State as a member of the All Progressives Congress in 2015.\n\nHe was born 23 April 1961 in Guma Local Government Area of Benue State, Nigeria. He attended St. John's Primary School, Gboko in 1970 but moved to St. Catherine's Primary School, Makurdi in 1974, completing his primary education in 1976. Chief Dr. Samuel Ioraer Ortom was admitted into Idah Secondary Commercial College, Idah in Kogi State in 1976. He did two years in the school before his father's retirement in 1979 ended his dream of completing formal secondary school education for financial reasons. He became a professional driver.\n\nHe later obtained the General Certificate of Education as well as Diploma in Salesmanship. He enrolled at Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria and obtained both the Interim Joint Matriculation Board Certificate, in 1995 and Diploma in Journalism in 1998. He later attended the Benue State University where he obtained the Advanced Diploma in Personnel Management in 2001 as well as Master of Public Administration in 2004. Ortom earned Doctor of Philosophy, Ph.D, from the Commonwealth University, Belize, through distant learning.\n\nOrtom served different political parties in Benue State including the National Centre Party of Nigeria as State Publicity Secretary; State Treasurer of the All People's Party (APP); and State Secretary as well as State Deputy Chairman of the People's Democratic Party (PDP). He was also Director of Operations of the PDP gubernatorial campaign in Benue State in 2007 and Director of Administration and Logistics of the Goodluck/Sambo Presidential Campaign Organization in 2011. He was PDP National Auditor before his appointment as Minister of the Federal Republic of Nigeria in July 2011.\n\nIn April 2015, he contested for Governor of Benue State and won under the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC)\n\nIn July 2018, Ortom announced his departure from All Progressives Congress as a result of internal party crisis.\n\nThrough the establishment of Oracle Business Limited Foundation, Ortom has set aside funds in St. Theresa's Hospital, Makurdi and Rahama Hospital, Gboko Road, Makurdi, for treatment of hernia and snakebites free of charge to the patients. The foundation has also reached out to prison inmates. Another outreach of his has been the Oracle Driving School, which turns out qualified drivers on a regular basis.\n"}
{"id": "31902553", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31902553", "title": "Shareholders in the United Kingdom", "text": "Shareholders in the United Kingdom\n\nShareholders in the United Kingdom are people and organisations who buy shares in UK companies. In large companies, such as those on the FTSE100, shareholders are overwhelmingly large institutional investors, such as pension funds, insurance companies, mutual funds or similar foreign organisations. UK shareholders have the most favourable set of rights in the world in their ability to control directors of corporations. UK company law gives shareholders the ability to,\n\n\nShareholders also owe one another duties, and owe duties under the Stewardship Code to exercise their voting power.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nShareholders provide an essential source of capital investment to corporations, and because of the bargaining position this confers, shareholders typically gain a comprehensive set of governance rights under a constitution. While not technically required, shareholders invariably possess exclusive voting rights, in contrast to many other European jurisdictions which require that employees codetermine (i.e. have the right to elect some of) the members of the board. In this way, and also because of the additional mandatory rights shareholders enjoy under the Companies Act 2006, the UK is a \"shareholder friendly\" jurisdiction relative to its European and American counterparts.\n\nSince the \"Report of the Committee on Company Law Amendment\", chaired in 1945 by Lord Cohen, led to the Companies Act 1947, as voters in the general meeting of public companies, shareholders have the mandatory right to remove directors by a simple majority, now under CA 2006 section 168.\n\nBy comparison, in Germany, and in most American companies (predominantly incorporated in Delaware) directors can only be removed for a \"good reason\".\n\nShareholders will habitually have the right to change the company's constitution with a three quarter majority vote, unless they have chosen to entrench the constitution with a higher threshold.\n\nShareholders with support of 5 per cent of the total vote can call meetings, and can circulate suggestions for resolutions with support of 5 per cent of the total vote, or any one hundred other shareholders holding over £100 in shares each.\n\nShareholder have say on pay of directors under CA 2006 section 439. For the time being, this is non-binding.\n\nCategories of important decisions, such as large asset sales, approval of mergers, takeovers, winding up of the company, any expenditure on political donations, and share buybacks. Other transactions where directors have a conflict of interest that require binding approval of shareholders are ratification of corporate opportunities, large self dealing transactions and service contracts lasting over two years.\n\nCompanies cannot make political donations without approval of the general meeting.\n\n\nDespite habitually occupying the most privileged position in UK corporate governance, shareholders in large public companies listed on the London Stock Exchange infrequently exercise their governance rights. Institutional investors, including pension funds, mutual funds and insurance funds, own most shares. Thousands or perhaps millions of persons, particularly through pensions, are beneficiaries from the returns on shares. Historically institutions have often not voted or participated in general meetings on their beneficiaries' behalf, and often display an uncritical pattern of supporting management. However, institutional investors also often work \"behind the scenes\" to secure better corporate governance for their members, through informal but direct communication with management. Individual shareholders form an increasingly small part of total investments, while foreign investment and institutional investor ownership have grown their share steadily over the last forty years. Institutional investors, who deal with other peoples' money, are bound by fiduciary obligations, deriving from the law of trusts and obligations to exercise care deriving from the common law. Now the Stewardship Code 2010, drafted by the Financial Reporting Council (the corporate governance watchdog), reinforces the duty on institutions to actively engage in governance affairs by disclosing their voting policy, voting record and voting. The aim is to make directors more accountable, at least, to investors of capital.\n\n"}
{"id": "3132309", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3132309", "title": "Shi Wen-long", "text": "Shi Wen-long\n\nWen-long Shi (; born 1928, Tainan Prefecture, Japanese-era Taiwan) is a Taiwanese businessman and the founder of Chi Mei Corporation, the largest maker of ABS resin in the world. Shi has been ranked among Forbes' World's Richest People. He was a chairman of Chi Mei until 2004, when he resigned as chairman, though he still holds significant stakes in the company and sits on its board.\n\nShi was a senior advisor to Chen Shui-bian during his presidency and is known to support pro-Taiwan independence causes, a stance which has made him unpopular with mainland China. He has claimed that Taiwanese women who acted as comfort women during Japanese rule were not forced to do so, which created much controversy.\n\nShi is an amateur performing concert violinist. He founded the Chi Mei Museum, in which he collects several valuable string instruments made by Antonio Stradivari or Guarneri del Gesù.\n\n"}
{"id": "6189924", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6189924", "title": "Social and Economic Council", "text": "Social and Economic Council\n\nThe Sociaal-Economische Raad (English: Social and Economic Council; SER) is a major economic advisory council to the cabinet of the Netherlands. Formally it heads a system of sector-based regulatory organizations. It represents the social partners trade unions and employers' organizations. It forms the core organization of the corporatist and social market economy known as the polder model and the main platform for social dialogue.\n\nThe SER was founded in 1950. It was founded after a long debate about the economic order of the Netherlands. The two main governing parties of the time, the Catholic KVP and the social-democratic PvdA had differing opinions on the subject. Both wanted to prevent the repetition of the economic crisis of the 1930s. The social-democrats preferred to grant the government an important regulatory role in the economy, while the Catholics preferred to rely on the workings of a self-regulating market economy. A compromise was found in the corporatist model, in which both trade unions and employers' organizations would form sector-based regulatory organizations. The SER headed this structure and served as important partner for the national government. The SER was very important in the reconstruction of the Netherlands after the Second World War. \n\nIn the 1950s and 60s the SER was particularly successful in ensuring economic growth by close cooperation between government, trade unions and employers' organizations. In the 1970s because of rising political polarization and the oil crisis the SER was unable to resolve economic problems. In the 1980s the SER returned to the centre of the economic policy making, as it was the platform for dialogue between the government and its social partners. In the 1990s the role of the SER began to change. The role of the sector-based regulatory organizations began to decline and the SER more and more took the role of an advisory council of government, In 1997 the Senate and House of Representatives were granted the right to submit enquiry commissions to the SER.\n\nThe SER has three main goals for Dutch social-economic policy:\n\nThe SER has thirty-three members. It consists of three sections, which each have eleven members in the council. These sections are trade unions, employers' organizations and government appointed members, the so-called Crown members. The trade union-members are appointed from the three major unions: FNV (8), CNV (2) and the MHP (1). The members of the employers' organizations are representatives from the three major employers' organizations: VNO-NCW (7), MKB (3) and the LTO (1). The government-appointed members are normally professors of economics or related fields and they include representatives of the economic planning agency CPB and the central bank DNB. The board of the SER is formed by four members of each section. The chair of the organization is always a government appointee.\n\nThe SER heads and oversees the system of sector-based regulatory organizations. These organizations can like other governments, provinces, water boards etc. enforce legislation for their members, in this case companies. The SER is financed by levies which companies pay to the chambers of commerce. It spends €14 million a year.\n\nThe group has negotiated among other things, agreements in the textile sector, the banking sector and the gold sector. The SER also performs legal and administrative tasks. For example in the field of employee participation, healthy and safe working, employment inspections and pensions.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11420440", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11420440", "title": "Sovereign wealth fund", "text": "Sovereign wealth fund\n\nA sovereign wealth fund (SWF) or sovereign investment fund is a state-owned investment fund that invests in real and financial assets such as stocks, bonds, real estate, precious metals, or in alternative investments such as private equity fund or hedge funds. Sovereign wealth funds invest globally. Most SWFs are funded by revenues from commodity exports or from foreign-exchange reserves held by the central bank. By historic convention, the United States' Social Security Trust Fund, with US$2.8 trillion of assets in 2014, and similar vehicles like Japan Post Bank's JP¥200 trillion of holdings, are not considered sovereign wealth funds.\n\nSome sovereign wealth funds may be held by a central bank, which accumulates the funds in the course of its management of a nation's banking system; this type of fund is usually of major economic and fiscal importance. Other sovereign wealth funds are simply the state savings that are invested by various entities for the purposes of investment return, and that may not have a significant role in fiscal management.\n\nThe accumulated funds may have their origin in, or may represent, foreign currency deposits, gold, special drawing rights (SDRs) and International Monetary Fund (IMF) reserve positions held by central banks and monetary authorities, along with other national assets such as pension investments, oil funds, or other industrial and financial holdings. These are assets of the sovereign nations that are typically held in domestic and different reserve currencies (such as the dollar, euro, pound, and yen). Such investment management entities may be set up as official investment companies, state pension funds, or sovereign funds, among others.\n\nThere have been attempts to distinguish funds held by sovereign entities from foreign-exchange reserves held by central banks. Sovereign wealth funds can be characterized as \"maximizing long-term return\", with foreign exchange reserves serving short-term \"currency stabilization\", and liquidity management. Many central banks in recent years possess reserves massively in excess of needs for liquidity or foreign exchange management. Moreover, it is widely believed most have diversified hugely into assets other than short-term, highly liquid monetary ones, though almost no data is publicly available to back up this assertion. Some central banks have even begun buying equities, or derivatives of differing ilk (even if fairly safe ones, like overnight interest rate swaps).\n\nThe term \"sovereign wealth fund\" was first used in 2005 by Andrew Rozanov in an article entitled, \"Who holds the wealth of nations?\" in the \"Central Banking Journal\". The previous edition of the journal described the shift from traditional reserve management to sovereign wealth management; subsequently the term gained widespread use as the spending power of global officialdom has rocketed upward.\n\nSome of them have grabbed attention making bad investments in several Wall Street financial firms such as Citigroup, Morgan Stanley, and Merrill Lynch. These firms needed a cash infusion due to losses resulting from mismanagement and the subprime mortgage crisis.\n\nSWFs invest in a variety of asset classes such as stocks, bonds, real estate, private equity and hedge funds. Many sovereign funds are directly investing in institutional real estate. According to the Sovereign Wealth Fund Institute's transaction database around US$9.26 billion in direct sovereign wealth fund transactions were recorded in institutional real estate for the last half of 2012. In the first half of 2014, global sovereign wealth fund direct deals amounted to $50.02 billion according to the SWFI.\n\nSovereign wealth funds have existed for more than a century, but since 2000, the number of sovereign wealth funds has increased dramatically. The first SWFs were non-federal U.S. state funds established in the mid-19th century to fund specific public services. The U.S. state of Texas was thus the first to establish such a scheme, to fund public education. The Permanent School Fund (PSF) was created in 1854 to benefit primary and secondary schools, with the Permanent University Fund (PUF) following in 1876 to benefit universities. The PUF was endowed with public lands, the ownership of which the state retained by terms of the 1845 annexation treaty between the Republic of Texas and the United States. While the PSF was first funded by an appropriation from the state legislature, it also received public lands at the same time that the PUF was created. The first SWF established for a sovereign state is the Kuwait Investment Authority, a commodity SWF created in 1953 from oil revenues before Kuwait gained independence from the United Kingdom. According to many estimates, Kuwait's fund is now worth approximately US$600 billion.\n\nAnother early registered SWFs is the Revenue Equalization Reserve Fund of Kiribati. Created in 1956, when the British administration of the Gilbert Islands in Micronesia put a levy on the export of phosphates used in fertilizer, the fund has since then grown to $520 million.\n\nSWFs are typically created when governments have budgetary surpluses and have little or no international debt. It is not always possible or desirable to hold this excess liquidity as money or to channel it into immediate consumption. This is especially the case when a nation depends on raw material exports like oil, copper or diamonds. In such countries, the main reason for creating a SWF is because of the properties of resource revenue: high volatility of resource prices, unpredictability of extraction, and exhaustibility of resources.\n\nThere are two types of funds: saving funds and stabilization funds. Stabilization SWFs are created to reduce the volatility of government revenues, to counter the boom-bust cycles' adverse effect on government spending and the national economy. Savings SWFs build up savings for future generations. One such fund is the Government Pension Fund of Norway. It is believed that SWFs in resource-rich countries can help avoid resource curse, but the literature on this question is controversial. Governments may be able to spend the money immediately, but risk causing the economy to overheat, e.g., in Hugo Chávez's Venezuela or Shah-era Iran. In such circumstances, saving the money to spend during a period of low inflation is often desirable.\n\nOther reasons for creating SWFs may be economic, or strategic, such as war chests for uncertain times. For example, the Kuwait Investment Authority during the Gulf War managed excess reserves above the level needed for currency reserves (although many central banks do that now). The Government of Singapore Investment Corporation and Temasek Holdings are partially the expression of a desire to bolster Singapore's standing as an international financial centre. The Korea Investment Corporation has since been similarly managed. Sovereign wealth funds invest in all types of companies and assets, including startups like Xiaomi and renewable energy companies like Bloom Energy.\n\nThe growth of sovereign wealth funds is attracting close attention because:\n\n\nThe governments of SWF's commit to follow certain rules:\n\n\nThere were a number of transparency indices springing out before the Santiago Principles, some more stringent than others. To address these concerns some of the world's main SWFs come together in a summit in Chile on 2-3 September 2008, under the leadership of the IMF, they formed a temporary International Working Group of Sovereign Wealth Funds. This working group then drafted the 24 Santiago Principles, to set out a common global set of international standards regarding transparency, independence, and accountability in the way that SWFs operate. These were published after being presented to the IMF International Monetary Financial Committee on 11 October 2008. They also considered a standing committee to represent them and so a new organisation, the International Forum of Sovereign Wealth Funds (IFSWF) was then set up to maintain the new standards going forward and represent them in international policy debates.\n\nAs of 2016, 30 funds have formally signed up to the Principles representing collectively 80% of assets managed by sovereign funds globally or USD 5.5 trillion.\n\nNew SWFs were established in various developed jurisdictions after 2010 following the rise in energy and commodity prices, e.g., the North Dakota Legacy Fund (2011) and the Western Australian Future Fund (2012). The Israeli Citizens' Fund should start operating in 2020 after several years of preparatory work involving veteran American as well as local asset management experts.\n\nAssets under management of SWFs increased for the tenth year running in 2018 to a record $8.109 trillion. There was an additional $7.2 trillion held in other sovereign investment vehicles, such as pension reserve funds, development funds and state-owned corporations' funds and $8.1 trillion in other official foreign exchange reserves. Taken together, governments of SWFs, largely those in emerging economies, have access to a pool of funds totalling $20 trillion. Some of these funds could in future be channelled towards funding development of infrastructure for which there is global demand.\n\nCountries with SWFs funded by oil and gas exports, primarily oil and gas exports, totalled $4.29 trillion as of the end of 2014. Non-oil and gas SWFs totalled $2.82 trillion. Non-commodity SWFs are typically funded by transfer of assets from official foreign exchange reserves, and in some cases from government budget surpluses and privatisation revenue. Asian countries account for the bulk of such funds.\n\nAn important point to note is the SWF-to-Foreign Reserve Exchange Ratio, which shows the proportion a government has invested in investments relative to currency reserves. According to the SWF Institute, most oil-producing nations in the Persian Gulf have a higher SWF-to-Foreign Exchange Ratio—for example, the Qatar Investment Authority (5.89 times) compared to the China Investment Corporation (0.12 times)—reflecting a more aggressive stance to seek higher returns.\n\nThe United Arab Emirates, Kuwait, Norway, and Russia all have funds devoted to investing in oil and natural gas exports. Other countries with investment funds are as varied as China, Singapore, Chile, and the Pacific island nation of Kiribati.\n\n<nowiki>**</nowiki> This number is a best-guess estimation by the Sovereign Wealth Funds Institute.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39601357", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39601357", "title": "Sándor Csányi (banker)", "text": "Sándor Csányi (banker)\n\nSándor Csányi (born 20 March 1953) is a Hungarian billionaire businessman, banker, investor, philanthropist, specializing in finance. He is also a qualified pricing specialist and certified auditor. He is the chairman and chief executive officer of OTP Bank Group, one of the largest financial groups in the CEE Region and the biggest bank of Hungary. He is also shareholder and member of board of the Hungary-based multinational oil and gas company, MOL Group. He owns the Hungarian food manufacturer company, Bonafarm exclusively. With an estimated wealth of 294.3 billion forint ($1 billion) as of 2017, he is according to Forbes the wealthiest person in Hungary, and Hungary's first billionaire.\n\nSándor Csányi was born on the 20 March 1953 in a lower middle class agricultural family in Jászárokszállás. His father, József Csányi was the field guard of the cooperative of Jászárokszállás. His mother, Amália Ballagó was a line driver also in the town's cooperative. He has two brothers. His parents did beekeeping and produced sugar beet. He is of Jassic descent.\n\nHe graduated from Budapest Business School in 1974 with a bachelor’s degree in business administration and in 1980 from the Budapest University of Economics with a degree in economics and thereafter received his doctorate.\n\nAfter graduation he worked at the Revenue Directorate and then at the Secretariat of the Ministry of Finance. Between 1983 and 1986, he was a departmental head at the Ministry of Agriculture and Food Industry. From 1986 to 1989 he worked as a head of department at Magyar Hitel Bank. He was deputy CEO of Kereskedelmi és Hitelbank from 1989 to 1992. Since 1992 he has been Chairman & CEO of OTP Bank Group where he is responsible for the Bank’s strategy and overall operation. He is a member of the European Board of Directors for MasterCard and is Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors of MOL Group, Co-Chairman of the Hungarian National Association of Entrepreneurs and Employers (VOSZ) and until April 2011 was a member of the Board of Directors of the Hungarian Banking Association. He has been Chairman of the Hungarian Football Federation (MLSZ) since July 2010.\n\nIn 2015, he was elected to the UEFA Executive Committee, and in March 2017 he was elected as a member of the FIFA Council, before being named Vice President of FIFA in February 2018.\n\nHis father is József Csányi, his mother is Amália Ballagó. His wife is Erika Csányi. Sándor Csányi has two brothers and five children.\n\n \n"}
