{"id": "33879727", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33879727", "title": "2011 NATO attack in Pakistan", "text": "2011 NATO attack in Pakistan\n\nThe 2011 NATO attack in Pakistan (also known as the Salala incident, Salala attack or 26/11 attacks), was a border skirmish that occurred when US-led NATO forces engaged Pakistani security forces at two Pakistani military checkposts along the Afghanistan–Pakistan border on Saturday, 26 November 2011. Two NATO Apache helicopters an AC-130 gunship and two F-15E Eagle fighter jets entered by varying estimates as little as 200 meters (660 ft) to up to 2.5 kilometres (1.6 miles), into the Pakistani border area of Salala (in the Baizai subdivision of Mohmand Agency, FATA) at 2 a.m. local time. They came from across the border in Afghanistan and opened fire at two border patrol check-posts, killing 28 Pakistani soldiers and wounding 12 others. The two Pakistan Army check-posts were codenamed \"Boulder\" and \"Volcano\" respectively. This attack resulted in a deterioration of relations between Pakistan and the United States. The Pakistani public reacted with protests all over the country and the government took measures adversely affecting the US exit strategy from Afghanistan, including the evacuation of Shamsi Airfield and closure of the NATO supply line.\n\nOn 3 July 2012, US Secretary of State Hillary Clinton officially apologized for the losses suffered by the Pakistani military. Subsequently, Pakistan restored the NATO supply routes.\n\nOn 26 November 2011, US-led NATO forces opened fire on two Pakistani border check-posts near the Pakistan-Afghanistan border. The attack occurred at approximately 02:00 local time (01:30 in Afghanistan and 21:00 GMT). According to the Director General of Military Operations (DGMO), Major General Ashfaq Nadeem, the attack was a coordinated NATO strike and used two AH-64D Apache Longbow helicopters, an AC-130H Spectre gunship and two F-15E Eagle fighter jets. A MC-12W Liberty turbo-propeller aircraft was used in an intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance role. The check-posts were located to inside Pakistan from the border with Afghanistan in the Salala area of the Baizai subdivision of the Mohmand Agency in the Federally Administered Tribal Areas (FATA), Pakistan, and separated by a distance of one kilometre on the Salala mountain top.\n\nThe attacks caused the deaths of up to twenty-four Pakistani soldiers, including two officers, Major Mujahid Mirani and Captain Usman Ali. Thirteen other soldiers were injured.\nBoth sides reported they were attacked first. The poorly defined border, as well as a history of Taliban fighters moving around the Afghan border regions, were cited as possible contributing factors to the incident.\n\nAccording to Afghan and US officials, the incident started after US-Afghan coalition forces, which were conducting an operation against the Afghan Taliban in Afghanistan's eastern Kunar Province, were fired upon from border positions within Pakistan. \"There was firing coming from the position against Afghan army soldiers who requested support\", said one Afghan official in Kabul. \n\nThe Afghan official further stated they were being fired upon directly from a Pakistani military outpost itself. A Western official backed up that view by stating, \"They were fired on from a Pakistani army base.\" And, \"It was a defensive action.\" According to Afghan and US accounts helicopters were then called in for support against the incoming fire.\n\nA Pakistani defence official reportedly admitted that soldiers in the Pakistani border post sitting there for the express purpose of stopping infiltration fired a few flares, a couple of mortar rounds and one or two bursts of machine-gun fire in that direction.\n\nAnother US official in Kabul pointed to an incident in September 2010, when a NATO helicopter fired on a Pakistan outpost, killing two soldiers. \"It was a situation where insurgent forces butted right up against a Pakistani border post and used that as a firing position. When we fired back, we hit Pakistani security forces. Military officials in Kabul claimed insurgents in Pakistan have also used empty Pakistan border bases to stage attacks, which they say may have been the working assumption of the coalition forces who called in the airstrike when they drew fire.\n\nOne US official said NATO forces had informed the Pakistani army's 11th Corps command near the western border that operations against Taliban insurgents would take place on that day. Pakistani General Abbas admitted in a press conference that coalition forces had \"informed our military earlier, much earlier, that they will be conducting an operation there.\"\n\nAccording to the US military, information about the proposed strike was passed on at one of the centres on the border where both sides station officers and exchange information in an effort to avoid firing on each other, after which Pakistani officers cleared the strike, saying that there were no Pakistani forces in the area.\n\nThe incident sparked outrage and controversy in Pakistan, which termed the attack an \"unprovoked and indiscriminate firing,\" an \"irresponsible act,\" and a \"stark violation\" of its sovereignty. Leaders of the Pakistani military establishment viewed NATO's attacks on the army checkposts as intentional, pre-planned and premeditated. Slamming NATO's version of events as \"lame excuses\", Pakistan rejected claims of any firing having emanated from its side as a prelude to the encounter, saying that the soldiers who were manning the post were asleep and resting when NATO launched the assault at night. The director general of the ISPR, Major General Athar Abbas challenged NATO to \"present proof if they claim that firing was started from Pakistani side. No fire was opened from our side.\" He asserted that \"At this point, NATO and Afghanistan are trying to wriggle out of the situation by offering excuses. Where are their casualties?\" Meanwhile, the claim that the airstrike was cleared by Pakistani authorities was categorically denied by Pakistan which claimed that the attack continued for two hours, even after Pakistani officials alerted coalition forces to stop.\n\nPreliminary reports from the Pakistan Army told of about 40 soldiers being present at the two check posts, most of whom were sleeping or resting when the raid took place.\nThe helicopters first attacked the border post, named \"Volcano\", atop the mountain peak. This initial attack cut all the communications to and from the post, and a Pakistan Air Force air support could not be called in time to counter the attack. Instead, Pakistani troops stationed at the nearby post named \"Boulder\" engaged the NATO helicopters with anti-aircraft guns. The helicopters soon withdrew.\n\nPakistani authorities tried to contact their NATO counterparts in an effort to inform them of the situation but the Pakistani request reportedly failed to reach the attacking force. The helicopters returned a second time engaging Boulder border post again. A short while later communication with the NATO commanders was established and the attack was called off. All casualties were from the initial attack on the Volcano border post. Later, Major General Abbas expressed that it was beyond comprehension why the NATO forces returned to attack the second time.\n\nAccording to local officials, there was no militant activity along the Afghan border region when NATO conducted the attack. Abbas, spokesperson ISPR, said that the coordinates of the two border posts had been given to ISAF. He added that the attack lasted for almost two hours and claimed that the personnel on the posts alerted the GHQ which in turn immediately informed the ISAF regional base in Afghanistan to stop the attack at roughly 12:30 AM but they did not. GHQ in return gave permission to the personnel on the outposts to retaliate. NATO communicated at roughly 1:15 AM that they had realised that they were attacking Pakistan Army and that their forces had been ordered to stop. Yet NATO's aerial bombardment continued with another salvo aiming at the Pakistani rescue force that rushed to the aid of the two posts. Pakistan termed the event an \"unprovoked and indiscriminate firing\", an \"irresponsible act\", and a \"stark violation\" of its sovereignty. The attack was the deadliest NATO strike on Pakistani soil since the start of the war in Afghanistan. \nIn a media conference with the Director General of Military Operations (DGMO) Major General Ashfaq, Chief of General Staff Lieutenant General Waheed Arshad, claimed that this was not an \"unintended\" incident. On accounts of series of events he commented that NATO was informed at the time of attack but their helicopters remained on course of aggression. Pakistani military also said that the NATO forces returned a second time to attack the post again. When he was asked whether Pakistan was satisfied with the investigating team headed under US Air force Brigadier General Stephon, he responded sharply by commenting that all incidents in past in relation to violation of Pakistan's sovereignty did not come to an agreeable conclusion. Pakistan was invited to jointly investigate the incident, but Pakistan refused to participate.\n\nOn 9 December, Major General Ashfaq claimed that NATO had been monitoring radio transmissions that night and knew they had hit Volcano post.\nThe Pakistani military called the strike \"unprovoked and indiscriminate.\" Government of Pakistan launched a strong protest with U.S and also immediately discontinued the supply to NATO troops located in Afghanistan. Notably, the strike on Saturday came one day after Gen. John Allen, the commander of the US-led coalition in Afghanistan, visited Pakistani army chief Gen. Ashfaq Parvez Kayani. In that meeting, both the commanders discussed border co-ordination and other measures \"aimed at enhancing border control on both sides.\"\n\nPakistan immediately closed all NATO supplies to Afghanistan in the aftermath of the attack, leaving the blockaded supply trucks vulnerable to attacks. NATO trucks had been using the supply routes, in Khyber Agency (through the Khyber Pass at Torkham) and Balochistan (near Chaman), to supply US and international forces fighting in Afghanistan.\n\nUS policy makers tried to find alternative routes through Russia, Kazakhstan, Uzbekistan, and Tajikistan (termed as the \"Northern Distribution Network\") but these are longer and less effective than routes through Pakistan. Huge costs are associated with the Central Asian supply lines, and NATO's supply line through Russia is already under a looming danger of closure due to friction over missile defence plans. Being a landlocked country, Afghanistan is highly dependent on Pakistan for its imports. According to figures released by The Pentagon in January 2012, the United States was paying six times more to send supplies to troops in Afghanistan via alternative supply routes following the closure of Pakistani routes. The figures placed the new US costs at $104 million per month, roughly $87 million costlier per month than when the cargo was transported via Pakistan. The high costs were associated with the routes being lengthier.\n\nIn late March 2012, a US military official stated that the United States would have to use routes through the Northern Distribution Network (NDN) for supplies to Afghanistan if Pakistan refused to reopen its supply lines. However, he conceded the expensiveness of these routes and noted that negotiations with Pakistan regarding the possibility of opening of the supply routes were ongoing. After reviewing United States-Pakistan relations and outlining what was needed to repair bilateral relations, the Pakistani parliament turned the decision of reopening the NATO supply lines over to the government in April 2012. Due to an upcoming general election in Pakistan, with widespread anti-American sentiments in the country, the Pakistani government was reluctant to reopen the lines, and postponed its decision until the United States responded positively to Pakistani demands outlined in the parliamentary recommendations, such as a US apology for the November 2011 incident, the bringing of those involved in the strike to justice, and a stop to US drone airstrikes. Talks between Pakistan and the United States failed in April 2012 after Pakistan could not get an unconditional apology from the United States for the November 2011 incident. The White House refused to apologise after Taliban attacks in Kabul and other cities in Afghanistan on 15 April 2012, which according to US military and intelligence officials came from the Haqqani network, an Afghan group working from a base in North Waziristan along the Afghanistan border in Pakistan's tribal belt. Pakistani officials said they cannot open the NATO supply routes in Afghanistan without a US apology.\n\nLater in May, Pakistan demanded the United States to pay stiff fees as a condition to open up NATO supply routes into Afghanistan. The United States, however, could not pay the required $5,000 per truck due to budgetary restraints according to US Secretary of Defense Leon Panetta. \"Considering the financial challenges that we're facing, that's not likely,\" Panetta said of the Pakistani demand of $5,000 for each truck carrying supplies across its territory for NATO troops waging the Afghanistan war.\nUnnamed US officials said that US officials said they had hoped a meeting between Pakistani President Asif Ali Zardari and US President Barack Obama as well as sharing the spotlight with President Obama and other global leaders during the 2012 NATO Chicago Summit might provide an incentive for a deal on resuming supply shipments. \"The invitation was an inducement to get them back into the international fold,\" said a senior US official, speaking anonymously because of the sensitive issues. \"But the Pakistanis couldn't get their own act together\" in time for the summit. \"The main issue, it seems, is money.\"\n\nThe United States and Pakistan had nearly completed a deal to reopen crucial NATO supply routes into Afghanistan in June 2012, when Defense Secretary Leon E. Panetta said the US was \"reaching the limits of our patience\" over Islamabad's failure to root out Afghan insurgents in its tribal areas. In the wake of Panetta's comments, deputy assistant secretary of Defense Peter Lavoy was not allowed to meet with the Pakistani Army Chief, General Ashfaq Parvez Kayani, and the Pentagon announced that it was bringing home a negotiating team that had worked in the Pakistani capital for nearly two months to end the bitter impasse over the supply routes. A senior US official disputed the notion that Panetta's criticism of Pakistan had set back the talks. \"The sticking point for a long time has been the apology issue,\" the official said.\n\nPakistan decided to reopen the supply lines after the US Secretary of State apologised on 3 July 2012 for the Salala incident via a telephone call to Pakistani Foreign Minister Hina Rabbani Khar. \"Foreign Minister Khar and I acknowledged the mistakes that resulted in the loss of Pakistani military lives,\" Clinton said in a statement. \"We are sorry for the losses suffered by the Pakistani military. We are committed to working closely with Pakistan and Afghanistan to prevent this from ever happening again.\" US Secretary of Defence Leon Panetta said in a separate statement that the US \"remains committed to improving our partnership with Pakistan and to working closely together as our two nations confront common security challenges in the region\", US General John R. Allen said in a statement that the agreement is \"a demonstration of Pakistan's desire to help secure a brighter future for both Afghanistan and the region at large.\" and NATO Secretary-General Anders Fogh Rasmussen welcomed the announcement to reopen the supply lines, stating saying it highlighted the important role Pakistan has in supporting a stable future for Afghanistan.\n\nPakistani reactions to the US apology were different. \"We appreciate Secretary Clinton's statement, and hope that bilateral ties can move to a better place from here. I am confident that both countries can agree on many critical issues, especially on bringing peace to the region,\" Pakistan's ambassador to the US Sherry Rehman said in a statement. In general the decision to reopen the supply routes was met in Pakistan with a general sense of befuddlement and muted criticism that the Pakistani government had given up a much-trumpeted increase in transit fees for NATO trucks. Opposition politicians criticised the move and demanded more of an explanation from the Pakistani government and military. \"Now government should let the people know about the terms and conditions for reopening the NATO supply lines. What were the demands?\" said former foreign minister Shah Mehmood Qureshi. And Enver Baig, an opposition politician belonging to the Pakistan Muslim League-Nawaz complained about Americans: \"They did not apologize. They said ‘sorry.’\" Some Pakistani vowed civil disobedience to stop the convoys. \"The decision to reopen NATO supplies is a big crime against the country, and we will not sit silently over this,\" retired Lt. Gen. Hamid Gul, a leader of the Defense Council of Pakistan (a coalition of Islamic parties that includes pro-Taliban clerics and other foes of the NATO routes) and a former chief of the Inter-Services Intelligence agency, told the Pakistani cable channel Express News. \"We will come to roads and streets and protest against the decision and will also try to stop the supplies.\" Pakistani Taliban announced that they will attack any NATO supply trucks travelling along the routes. Transporters who resume supplies will be \"considered a friend of the U.S.\" and will face the consequences, a spokesman for the militant group said. Al Jazeera's Kamal Hyder said that both NATO and Pakistani forces had taken into account losses in the past. \"The losses, despite the fact that they have become a problem are nowhere near the levels that would cause alarm bells to ring\" the correspondent said. According to his analysis it would cause a problem if \"the Pakistani Taliban attack bridges or decide to take these people head on in the tribal areas\" connecting Pakistan to the southern Afghan province of Kandahar.\n\nAmerican officials said according to the New York Times that Hillary Clinton's increasingly cordial relationship with the young Pakistani foreign minister Hina Rabbani Khar paid dividends in resolving the dispute between both countries over the Salala incident. A final agreement on the wording of Clinton's statement of her conversation with Khar came after a week of marathon talks that included two trips to Islamabad by General John R. Allen, the US commander in Afghanistan, and a quickly arranged weekend trip by Thomas R. Nides, the deputy secretary of state for management and resources. In recent weeks Nides and Pakistani Finance Minister Abdul Hafeez Shaikh had spearheaded the negotiations to reopen the supply lines. After weeks of behind-the-scenes phone calls, e-mails and meetings between Nides and Abdul Hafeez Shaikh reached an agreement on the terms for the reopening of the NATO supply lines. Besides the US apology both sides agreed to the following: After initially demanding as much as $5,000 for each truck Pakistan dropped its insistence on a higher transit fee for each truck carrying NATO's nonlethal supplies from Pakistan into Afghanistan and agreed to keep the fee at the current rate of $250. The Obama Administration will ask Congress to reimburse Pakistan about $1.2 billion for costs incurred by 150,000 Pakistani troops carrying out counterinsurgency operations along the border with Afghanistan. \"With the GLOCs open, we will look to pay past coalition support fund claims,\" Pentagon spokesman Captain John Kirby said, using a Pentagon acronym for the supply routes. The United States military reimburses by \"coalition support funds\" Pakistan for logistical, military and other support provided to American military operations against militants, but these payments have been suspended since Pakistan shut off the routes. More precisely the US halted paying the bills from Pakistan as tension rose between the two countries.\nThe Pentagon will now consult with Congress about paying the bills prior to paying Pakistan in full.\n\nDuring their telephone call Pakistani Foreign Minister Hina Rabbani Khar made it clear to Secretary of State Clinton that no lethal equipment would transit into Afghanistan through the Ground Lines of Communication i.e. the ground supply lines except those meant for equipping the Afghan National Security Forces. Pakistan's Defense Committee of the Cabinet, which approved the deal, said the agreement was in the country's best interest and a boon to the Afghanistan peace process. Allowing NATO convoys to enter and exit Pakistani territory would speed the withdrawal of Western forces, the Pakistani government said in a statement, and \"enable a smooth transition in Afghanistan.\" According to the New York Times the agreement reflected a growing realisation by Pakistani officials that they had overplayed their hand, misjudged NATO's resolve and ability to adapt to the closing by using an alternative route through Central Asia, and a recognition on both sides that the impasse risked transforming an often rocky relationship into a permanently toxic one at a critically inopportune time. Despite the resolving of the Salala incident there are frictions in both countries relations such as Pakistan's opposition to US drone strikes on Pakistan soil, and Washington's allegations that Islamabad condones, or even assists, anti-American militants.\n\nThe deal ended a diplomatic deadlock that brought US relations with the nuclear-armed South Asian nation to a near standstill and hindered counter-terrorism operations against Pakistan-based militants. Because of the supply lines closure the United States has spent at least an additional $100 million a month because it was instead forced to move supplies by air, rail or truck through Russia and other countries north of Afghanistan at much longer and more expensive routes. The closure of the supply lines complicated the American troop withdrawal from Afghanistan, cost the United States more than $1 billion in extra shipping fees as a result of having to use the alternative routes through Central Asia and also held up delivery of thousands of armoured vehicles and other equipment meant for the fledgling Afghan army and police, slowing US efforts to build Afghan forces that can stand up to the Taliban insurgency as foreign troops withdraw. The reopening of the supply lines means that the US will save hundreds of millions of dollars in the run-up to the withdrawal of NATO forces from the Afghanistan and also that it would help the US and NATO to complete its withdrawal of troops from Afghanistan \"at a much lower cost\" according to Clinton. Despite the reopening of critical supply routes from Pakistan, the US military confronts a giant logistical challenge to wind down the war in Afghanistan because it must withdraw till the end of 2014 nearly 90,000 troops and enormous depots of military equipment accumulated over a decade of war which includes 100,000 shipping containers stuffed with materiel and 50,000 wheeled vehicles.\n\nThe above-mentioned agreement between Pakistan and the United States was never an issue of money alone. \"It was a matter of honor for the army,\" said Laiq ur-Rehman, a Pakistani defence correspondent for ARY News, a cable channel. \"The only word they were looking for was 'sorry.' It was a matter of pride, a matter of honor, a matter of ego.\" \"If it had been about the money, it would have been done months ago,\" said a US senior administration official knowledgeable about the negotiations. \"Just like for us, it was not just about the supply routes.\" According to the BBC the reason for the long US refusal to apologise for the Salala incident was deep anger among Americans about the death of US soldiers in Afghanistan from attacks by militant groups with alleged connections to Pakistan's ISI intelligence agency. Another reason for the United States refusal to apologise was the determination by American military investigators that Pakistan was equally culpable in the Salala incident because Pakistani soldiers, stationed on a ridge overlooking the border, had fired first on US troops on the Afghan side of the border. Pakistan has disputed that conclusion, saying its forces did not fire first.\n\nAfter the first NATO supply trucks crossed the Afghan border on 5 June 2012, Pakistanis questioned the NATO supply line deal. \"The US has not apologized formally,\" said Nawaz Sharif, the leader of the main opposition party Pakistan Muslim League-Nawaz. Imran Khan, another major opposition figure, went further, saying that \"the decision isn't only against national interest but can also stir unrest within the ranks of the armed forces.\" He also criticised the incumbent government as being a pawn of the United States. Political and religious parties in Pakaistan undertook \"long march\" to Islamabad to protest reopening of supply routes to Afghanistan. Pakistan declared it will scan all NATO containers passing through the country to ensure they do not contain weapons and unapproved items will be seized. 560,000 rupees ($6,000) compensation per vehicle would be paid to the truck owners by NATO subcontractors for being out of work for seven months because of the blockade according to Rana Mohammad Aslam, vice-president of the All Pakistan Goods Carrier Association.\n\nOn 26 November, the same day the incident occurred, Pakistan ordered the US to shut down and vacate the Shamsi Airfield in the southwestern Balochistan province within a deadline of 15 days. US forces and the Central Intelligence Agency had reportedly leased this airbase in 2001 for joint surveillance and launching drone attacks against militants in Afghanistan and northwestern Pakistan. The Shamsi airbase was the only military base in Pakistan being used by the United States, and orders of its evacuation by US personnel symbolised an increasing rift and deterioration in relations between Pakistan and the United States.\n\nIn early December, the US military personnel occupying the base, along with all military equipment, were shifted to the Bagram Air Base in Afghanistan via US military aircraft. On 10 December, Pakistani troops from the Frontier Corps took full control of the airfield as scheduled, and by 11 December all remaining American staff were evacuated. Upon establishing control of the airfield, the United States flag was removed from the base and replaced with the flag of Pakistan.\nThe impact of the closure has been questioned, as the United States still has the ability to conduct drone attacks from nearby bases in Afghanistan, and according to the Pakistani military, the base was used mainly for refuelling and maintenance of drones, as well as for emergency landings and logistical support, and not for conducting actual drone operations which had in fact ceased in April 2011. Following the incident, Pakistan stated its intention to shoot down any future US drones intruding on its airspace, and the US suspended drone operations to avoid antagonising Pakistan. One report said that American drone attacks in Pakistan dropped by as much as 50% due to the Salala attack, as well as legal cases.\n\nAmong the immediate repercussions of the incident is that the United States' attempts to end the war in Afghanistan peacefully may now be in jeopardy. Some Pakistani officials warned that the attack could have \"huge implications\" for the Afghan endgame. Pakistan, which is designated as a major non-NATO ally by the United States and is seen as a key facilitator in bringing the United States to the negotiations table with the Afghan Taliban and the Haqqani Network, had already halted those efforts according to an unnamed Pakistani official close to the military establishment.\n\nWhile addressing a Senate committee, the Minister of Foreign Affairs Hina Rabbani Khar warned that a repeat incident could end Pakistan's support to the United States in its war against militancy. \"Enough is enough. The government will not tolerate any incident of spilling even a single drop of any civilian or soldier's blood. Pakistan's role in the War on Terror must not be overlooked.\" She added that \"the sacrifices rendered by Pakistan in the war on terror are more than any other country. But that does not mean we will compromise on our sovereignty.\"\n\nIn the wake of the NATO attacks, the Pakistani government refused to attend the Bonn conference scheduled on 5 December 2011. The event in Bonn, Germany is an important international conference on Afghanistan. International pressure over Pakistan amounted as it refused to attend the Bonn conference. Secretary Hillary Clinton contacted the Pakistani Prime Minister but her plea was rejected because Pakistani public opinion prohibited attendance. The conference was generally regarded as a disappointment, partially because of Pakistan's absence.\n\nPakistan also strengthened its air defences and surveillance along the Afghanistan border as a precaution against any future incursions. DGMO Major General Ashaq Nadeem was quoted saying \"We can expect more attacks from our supposed allies\". Pakistan's army chief General Ashfaq Parvez Kayani issued directions to commanders posted at the border to fire without permission if any further aggression is received. According to a Pakistani security official, Pakistan had upgraded to a \"fully equipped air defence system\" on the Afghan border which has the capability of detecting, tracing and shooting down any aircraft. These weapons notably include indigenous shoulder-to-air Anza Mk-III missiles and anti-aircraft guns. The Pakistan Air Force cancelled leave for all its air reconnaissance-related personnel and deployed aircraft to start a round-the-clock combat air patrol over the Afghan border to prevent all intrusions including drone attacks.\n\nThe already fractured relationship between Pakistan and the United States fell to a new low following the incident, with the Pakistani government and military establishment reassessing their diplomatic, political, military and intelligence relationship with the United States.\n\nThe Foreign Ministry of Pakistan promptly lodged a protest with US ambassador to Pakistan Cameron Munter following the attack. In an official phone call to the United States, Foreign Minister Hina Rabbani Khar said that the attacks demonstrated \"complete disregard for international law and human life\" and were \"in stark violation of Pakistani sovereignty.\" Sentiments within the Pakistani military leadership suggested the attack as being a pre-planned plot that was executed deliberately and intentionally.\n\nRetired Brigadier Mahmood Shah, former chief of security in the tribal areas, said that so far the US has blamed Pakistan for all that is happening in Afghanistan and Pakistan's point of view has not been shown in the international media, so the matter should be taken up by the United Nations Security Council. He advised Pakistani authorities to shoot down NATO aircraft should a similar event take place in the future, and to keep the supply lines closed, on the argument that the US cannot afford a war with Pakistan. The Inter Services Public Relations (ISPR), a media wing of the Pakistani military, released a statement calling the attack unprovoked and said that chief of army staff, General Ashfaq Parvez Kayani had called the incident unacceptable and \"directed that all necessary steps be under taken for an effective response to this irresponsible act\". One senior Pakistani military official said \"the latest attack by NATO forces on our post will have serious repercussions as they, without any reasons, attacked on our post and killed soldiers asleep.\"\n\nThe Pakistani Senate passed a unanimous resolution which denounced the attack and called it contrary to United Nations resolutions and international laws. Pakistan's Interior Minister Rehman Malik commented on the issue clarifying that the supply lines have not been suspended, rather been permanently shut down and the trucks would not be allowed to cross the Pakistan-Afghanistan border. The Minister of Information and Broadcasting Firdous Ashiq Awan urged the international community to condemn the incident to prevent such incidents in the future. The Governor of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, Masood Kausar, termed the air strike as \"deliberate\" and asserted that claims over the incident being accidental were untrue. He also blamed the instability in neighbouring Afghanistan as a cause of instability in Pakistan.\n\nThe televised funeral ceremony of the soldiers who died was held in Peshawar and was attended by several high-level military and political figures, including the Chief of Army Staff. Afterwards, their bodies were dispatched to their native towns for burial. The soldiers hailed from various regions, including three from Azad Kashmir alone, while the Major was from Larkana and the Captain from Sahiwal. Family members of Major Mujahid Mirani and Captain Usman Ali said the soldiers \"sacrificed their lives\" for the country and that they were proud of those sacrifices. The Army Chief later also paid a visit to the injured soldiers, who had been transported to the Combined Military Hospital (CMH) in Peshawar.\n\nOn 28 November 2011, referring to Pak-US military, intelligence, political and diplomatic co-operation, the Pakistani Prime Minister announced that there would be no more business with the US and the relations between the two countries would never be the same again. Later the Director General of ISPR, Abbas, announced that NATO's apology was not accepted and the attack would have serious consequences. He said that NATO's regret over the attack was not enough and such incidents had happened in the past, killing 72 soldiers and injuring more than 250 troops in three years. While addressing a gathering of journalists at a military headquarters, Pakistan Army Major-General Ashfaq Nadeem described the Salala incident as a \"deliberate act of aggression\" and said it was \"next to impossible\" that NATO did not know they were attacking Pakistani forces.\n\nThe next day, Pakistan's ambassador to the UN, Hussain Haroon wrote to a letter to the UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon to inform him of the situation and requested that the statement be forwarded to the 193-nation general assembly and the 15-nation security council (UNSC) as a UNSC document.\n\nCommenting on drone attacks, a senior Pakistani official said that predator drones \"will never be allowed back, at Shamsi or anywhere else\" although he hinted that American military trainers may be allowed back into the country to train Pakistani security forces. Pakistan had previously dumped American security personnel out of the country, following a covert operation by US special forces that killed Osama bin Laden in the town of Abbottabad in May 2011 and strained Pakistan's relations with the United States. As of January 2012, foreign affairs minister Hina Rabbani Khar said Pakistan's ties with the United States were \"still on hold\" over the NATO air-attack and that until the re-evaluation was not complete, Washington could not ask Islamabad to pursue militant groups or assist in the Afghan peace process.\n\nIn May 2012, Bilawal Bhutto Zardari, son of President Zardari and chairman of the Pakistan Peoples Party, toughened his stance when he called on President Obama to \"show some courage\" and \"apologise to Pakistan\" over the raid. Ridiculing US demands for Islamabad to \"do more\" in the Afghanistan war, Bilawal remarked \"it is time for the US to do more\". He called US drone operations a \"constant irritant\" to Pakistani public opinion and questioned whether the United States \"actually considered Pakistan a military ally\", citing other controversial events such as the Abbottabad operation and the Raymond Davis incident. He also remarked that while he understood Obama was facing a re-election, \"the future of the NATO mission in Afghanistan should be more important than poll numbers\".\n\nA PML (N) politician remarked that the government's incompetence had allowed the attack to be carried out. Imran Khan, a popular opposition politician and former cricketer who has been a long-time staunch critic of the government's foreign policy and its decision to join the American-led War on Terror, called the attack unpardonable during a political rally in Multan, and said the Pakistani government had wasted $70 billion belonging to the Pakistani people, as well as the lives of 40,000 people, on fighting a counter-productive American war: \"I know that the government will not do anything except issue some silly comments against brutality even after this attack. I do not issue comments, I believe in taking action.\" An Awami National Party politician and senator called the incident a terrorist attack. Awami Muslim League party leader Sheikh Rashid Ahmed supported a blockade of NATO supplies \"to teach an unforgettable lesson to USA and NATO forces for violating Pakistani soil.\" MQM chief Altaf Hussain condemned the attack and directed his party to observe a \"Stability and Solidarity Day\". Former president Pervez Musharraf heavily criticised the attack while giving a telephonic conference to the Karachi Press Club and advised the government to take strict measures at a diplomatic level. Many other leaders also called on the government to pull out of the war in Afghanistan and disassociate itself from the U.S. alliance. The JUI called the attack a \"shameful incident\" and \"a slap across the face of Pakistani foreign policy\" adopted by rulers who \"always bow before their foreign masters.\" Protesters affiliated with the right-wing Jamaat-ud-Dawa held a rally outside the Lahore Press Club where they urged the Pakistan Army to give a \"befitting response\" to NATO; the leader of the party said \"We have to eliminate all stations and bases given to the CIA if we want to end terrorism in Pakistan\".\n\nThe NATO attack received considerable criticism and caused widespread outrage among the country's civil society and media, with some perceiving it as an intentional act of war that may have been pre-planned. Numerous protests were organised in several cities for a number of consecutive days after the attack occurred. Members of the public demanded an end to the US alliance and pressurised the government to consider pulling out from the War on Terror, permanently halt all NATO supplies, expel American citizens in Pakistan and plan a tit-for-tat military retaliation. Some locals in the tribal agencies demanded those who carried out the attack to be handed over to Pakistan. Hundreds of people organised a gathering outside the American consulate in Karachi to lodge a protest. Various lawyers' associations throughout the country boycotted their usual court proceedings and observed a strike to mark the day. Many university students also boycotted their classes to protest. Students in Peshawar blocked a main road where they chanted \"Quit the war on terror\" and other anti-American slogans. Schoolteachers and students in Azad Kashmir expressed their outrage during a protest in the capital Muzaffarabad. Protests were also organised in the northern towns of Skardu in Gilgit-Baltistan and Chitral. Some faculty members of the University of the Punjab, the country's oldest university, passed a \"resolution\" in which they backed the Pakistan Army, stating that \"Pakistan does not want war, but war is being imposed on it\" and said the War on Terror was a \"drama\" staged by the \"US elite\" and a certain group of rich international bankers referred to as the \"high cabal\" by Winston Churchill who wanted to establish a \"world government\". The Federation of Pakistan Chamber of Commerce & Industry condemned the attack as well. Local television cable operators pulled out western channels such as BBC World News to deter what they called \"anti-Pakistan bias\" in the media. Leaders of Pakistani Christian communities also condemned the attack and pledged their support for the armed forces along with calling for a UN inquiry; speaking on the occasion, the president of the Pakistan Catholic Bishops' Conference said: \"Our soldiers lost their lives in the line of duty. They died fighting terrorism\". Religious leaders and scholars of the Hindu, Sikh, Muslim, Christian and Baha'i communities also condemned the incident during an inter-faith meeting.\n\nThe White House released a statement in which it said that senior American officials had expressed their condolences to Pakistan and that the officials expressed \"our desire to work together to determine what took place, and our commitment to the U.S.-Pakistan partnership which advances our shared interests, including fighting terrorism in the region\". US Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, and Defense Secretary Leon Panetta spoke to their Pakistani counterparts to give their \"deepest condolences\" in a joint statement and also supported a NATO investigation. The commander of the International Security Assistance Force is \"personally paying the highest attention\" to the matter. The Obama administration pledged co-operation with Pakistan and ordered a full investigation and inquiry to be conducted into the attack. A few days later after the incident, President Barack Obama personally phoned President Asif Ali Zardari to express his sorrow over the deaths of the soldiers and, according to a press release, \"made it clear that this regrettable incident was not a deliberate attack on Pakistan and reiterated the United States' strong commitment to a full investigation.\" while stopping short of offering a formal apology.\n\nA NATO spokesman said that NATO \"regrets the loss of life of any Pakistani servicemen\".\n\nOn 27 November 2011, NATO issued an apology for what it called a \"tragic unintended incident\". In addition, NATO chief Anders Fogh Rasmussen is reported to have written to Prime Minister Yousuf Raza Gilani commenting that \"the deaths of Pakistani personnel are as unacceptable and deplorable as the deaths of Afghan and international personnel\". \"We have a joint interest in the fight against cross-border terrorism and in ensuring that Afghanistan does not once again become a safe haven for terrorists,\" Rasmussen was quoted as saying.\n\nThe US Chief of Army Staff, General Martin Dempsey, said Pakistan's anger was justified as it had a reason to be furious given the loss of life. However, Dempsey did not apologise, saying he did not know enough about the incident and an inquiry was still being conducted. A senior advisor to Afghan President Hamid Karzai warned that Pakistan and Afghanistan may be on a course toward military conflict. Hamid Karzai contacted the Pakistani Prime Minister to discuss the NATO strike and gave his condolences over the deaths of soldiers.\n\nThe commander of the International Security Assistance Force (ISAF), General John R. Allen, presented condolences to the family members and loved ones of the dead soldiers and ordered a \"thorough investigation\" into the matter. NATO chief Anders Fogh Rasmussen wrote to Pakistan's Prime Minister to say \"the deaths of Pakistani personnel are... unacceptable and deplorable.\"\n\nAt the same time, US senators such as John McCain and Lindsey Graham said the United States needed to \"fully review\" its ties with Pakistan and consider enforcing cuts or new restrictions to military and economic aid, in response to attacks on American soldiers in Afghanistan which the United States accuses of having links to Pakistani intelligence agencies.\n\nDennis J. Kucinich, a US Congressman from Ohio, said while speaking at an event organised by the Association of Physicians of Pakistani Descent of North America (APPNA) that the United States must apologise to Pakistan and pay reparations to the families of the soldiers, adding: \"I’m aware of complexities around US-Pakistan relations, but you are our brothers and sisters, and we need to help facilitate those who want to take care of people here.\"\n\nThe US embassy in Islamabad released a video statement on YouTube featuring Ambassador Cameron Munter standing in front of the American and Pakistani flags, in which he expressed his regrets for the attack. Giving his condolences, Munter said the United States took the attack \"very seriously\" and pledged \"a full, in-depth investigation.\" He also pointed out that Pakistan and the United States had been friends for over 60 years and that having \"weathered previous crises together\", he was certain they would both \"weather this one too\" to emerge as stronger partners.\n\n\n\n\nJohn Rees, a British socialist and anti-war political activist, called the NATO attack an \"extremely dangerous incursion\" and argued that the US and its allies were creating instability in the nuclear-armed country. Ahmed Qureshi, an Islamabad-based analyst, said during the same interview with state-run \"Russia Today\" that the prevailing public outrage may force the government and the army to take some decisive measures against the United States.\n\nAustralian analyst Brian Cloughley said the attack would have severe consequences: \"This is quite outrageous and I have no doubt it signifies the end of the last lingering shreds of trust that the Pakistani army had for the U.S.\". According to Coughley, the USAF had full knowledge of the locations of Pakistani border posts, and thus there was no excuse for this incident.\n\nAn article from the \"Asia Times\" by M K Bhadrakumar explains that US should learn from its experience with Iran. It has no answer to a resolute nation in its will to put up against an enemy and Pakistan is going to give a \"Persian response\" this time if the intention was to intimidate its army. According to Bhadrakumar, Pakistan's calculated response following the attack stops short of directly terminating its participation in the war although in essence, this event may push Pakistan's army \"within inches of doing that\" in the long-term scenario.\n\nA report published in the newspaper \"Pakistan Observer\" claimed that some military and defence observers at Islamabad believed NATO was playing a double game and was in league with the Tehrik-i-Taliban; according to the report, there was a theory being circulated which suggested that the attack carried out by NATO came just when some Tehrik-i-Taliban (TTP) militants from Afghanistan who had entered the region had been completely encircled by Pakistani forces and were about to be eliminated \"within the next few hours\". These check posts were there to check them and prevent from crossing the border into Pakistan. Pakistani monitors and experts on Afghanistan believed that at least two Afghan military officials deployed on the border, Brigadier General Aminullah Amarkhel and Colonel Numan Hatifi (of the 201st Silab Corps), have anti-Pakistan sentiments and links to anti-Pakistani elements.\n\nAn article published in \"People's Daily\", China's top state newspaper, accused the United States and NATO of flouting international law and fanning terrorism. Simultaneously, many Chinese scholars, analysts and members of leading think tanks also expressed strong criticism of NATO's attack. A former spokesperson for the US state department said China, which is a close ally of Pakistan, \"sees this as a target of opportunity, both to tweak the US and to subtly suggest to Pakistan that if it really sours of its relationship with the US, it has an alternative\".\n\nWriting for the Pakistani newspaper \"Express Tribune\", Indian blogger Sanjay Kumar said the attack had elicited various reactions in India, with some vocal sections who saw Islamabad in \"the prism of prejudice and paranoia\" expressing glee and delight at the discomfort and supposed humiliation of their arch-rival western neighbour. Kumar opinionated that \"such sick thought has many takers in this healthy democracy which prides itself as the voice of the third world countries\". An opinion piece by Abdul Ruff Colachal published on the \"Indian Muslim Observer\" titled \"NATO terrorism in Pakistan\" said that Pakistan's leadership was \"interested mainly in promoting US imperialist goals and western capitalist interests\" rather than protecting the interests of its people.\n\nRecipients of the Sitara-e-Jurat:\nRecipients of the Tamgha-e-Basalat:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38420723", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38420723", "title": "Albrecht Ritschl (economist)", "text": "Albrecht Ritschl (economist)\n\nAlbrecht Ritschl is Professor of Economic History at the London School of Economics. He studied at the University of Munich, and previously taught at the Pompeu Fabra University, the University of Zurich and the Humboldt University of Berlin.\n"}
{"id": "51056089", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51056089", "title": "Alexander Rubel", "text": "Alexander Rubel\n\nAlexander Rubel (b. 27 December 1969) is a German-Romanian historian of the Antiquity.\n\nAlexander Rubel studied History, Germanistics and Philosophy at the University of Konstanz. He was a researcher at the Department of Ancient History of the University of Konstanz. In 2000 he relocated to Iași, Romania, as Director of the Iași branch of the Goethe-Institut. He became a DAAD lecturer at the Alexandru Ioan Cuza University. He is presently the director of the German Cultural Center in Iași., researcher at and Director of the Iași Institute of Archaeology.\n\n"}
{"id": "7710503", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7710503", "title": "Archive of the Indigenous Languages of Latin America", "text": "Archive of the Indigenous Languages of Latin America\n\nThe Archive of the Indigenous Languages of Latin America (AILLA) is a digital repository housed in LLILAS Benson Latin American Studies and Collections at the University of Texas at Austin. AILLA is a digital language archive dedicated to the digitization and preservation of primary data, such as field notes, texts, audio and video recordings, in or about Latin American indigenous languages. AILLA's holdings are available on the Internet and are open to the public wherever privacy and intellectual property concerns are met. AILLA has access portals in both English and Spanish; all metadata are available in both languages, as well as in indigenous languages where possible.\n\nIn this global media age, more and more indigenous languages are being superseded by global languages such as Spanish, English, and Portuguese. Frequently, recordings made by researchers such as linguists, anthropologists, and ethnomusicologists, and by community members and speakers, are the only record of these languages. These recordings might be stored in university offices or in private homes where they are not accessible to the relevant stakeholders. AILLA provides a permanent home for these recordings in order to make them available to the speakers and to the rest of the world via the Internet.\n\nThe collection currently contains roughly 7,500 hours of archived audio materials, representing more than 300 languages from at least 28 countries. This is supplemented by a significant number of images, videos, and text files. Altogether, the archive contains more than 110,000 individual files (correct as of June 2016).\n\nThe database of archived materials can be freely searched via both the English and Spanish portals available on the AILLA webpage, as well as the Open Languages Archives Community. Direct access to archived recordings requires registration and sometimes needs permission as specified by the depositor. Downloads are free of charge.\n\nA large part of the project is the digitization of valuable analog recordings of languages and cultures from the Latin America that will otherwise deteriorate or be lost forever. Researchers whose materials are represented in these collections include Terrence Kaufman, Lyle Campbell, and Nora England.\n\nAnalog recordings are digitized at the highest possible fidelity to ensure high-quality digital files result. The current international archive standard for PCM audio files is 24-bit resolution and a sample rate of 96 kHz. AILLA employs the same standard to ensure that digital copies of the highest practicable fidelity are produced.\n\nAILLA is funded by the College of Liberal Arts and the University of Texas Libraries at The University of Texas at Austin. AILLA's main office and primary ingestion stations are located at the Nettie Lee Benson Latin American Collection. The archive is currently headed by Susan Smythe Kung, Joel Sherzer, Anthony C. Woodbury, and Patience Epps.\n\nAILLA was founded in 2000 by Joel Sherzer, professor emeritus in the Department of Linguistics at The University of Texas at Austin. The archive is a member of the Digital Endangered Languages and Musics Archives Network (DELAMAN). AILLA is an archive of record for the Documenting Endangered Languages program of the National Science Foundation.\n\n"}
{"id": "8655087", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8655087", "title": "Arkina district", "text": "Arkina district\n\nArkina district was the part of the medieval Armenian city of Ani where, in 990, Trdat the Architect completed the building of the Mother Cathedral of Ani.\n"}
{"id": "22601896", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22601896", "title": "Arne Odd Johnsen", "text": "Arne Odd Johnsen\n\nArne Odd Johnsen (3 December 1909 – 9 July 1985) was a Norwegian medieval and economic historian.\n\nHe was born in Asker as the son of historian Oscar Albert Johnsen (1876–1954) and Anna Evie Tollefsen (1877–1944). He finished his secondary education in 1928, enrolled in philology at the University of Oslo and graduated in 1936 with the mag.art. degree. Between 1937 and 1939 he studied medieval history at École des Chartes, Sorbonne and Collège de France. He was then a research fellow at the University of Oslo for five years. In 1945 he published his thesis \"Studier vedrørende kardinal Nicolaus Brekespears legasjon til Norden\", about Cardinal Nicolas Breakspear, later known as Pope Adrian IV. The thesis earned him the dr.philos. degree in 1946.\n\nAfter taking his doctorate he held scholarships and fellowships at several institutions in Norway and abroad. He was a member of the Norwegian Academy of Science and Letters from 1949 and the Royal Norwegian Society of Sciences and Letters from 1953. In 1958 he received a permanent scholarship from the Norwegian state. Johnsen became known for his endeavor to publish source documents from medieval and early modern times. His largest single work was \"Finnmarksfangstens historie 1864–1905\", published in 1959 as volume one of \"Den moderne hvalfangst historie\", the history of modern whaling. He was the editor of \"Kristiansunds historie\", a work on the history of Kristiansund, published in five volumes between 1945 and 1962, and in 1971 he released \"Tønsberg gjennom tidene\" on the history of Tønsberg.\n\nJohnsen also issued one collection of poetry, in 1930 under the pseudonym Tore Tallbo. He married interior decorator Birgitte Christine Paus (1915–1992) in 1952. He died in July 1985 in Oslo.\n"}
{"id": "34451303", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34451303", "title": "Arthur Saunders Thomson", "text": "Arthur Saunders Thomson\n\nArthur Saunders Thomson (29 December 1816 – 4 November 1860) was a notable New Zealand military surgeon, medical scientist, writer and historian. He was born in Arbroath, Angus, Scotland in 1816. Thompson's book \"The Story of New Zealand: Past and Present, Savage and Civilized\" (1859) is generally considered to be the first scholarly history of the island country.\n\n"}
{"id": "209584", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=209584", "title": "Atomic Age", "text": "Atomic Age\n\nThe Atomic Age, also known as the Atomic Era, is the period of history following the detonation of the first nuclear (\"atomic\") bomb, \"Trinity\", on July 16, 1945, during World War II. Although nuclear chain reactions had been hypothesized in 1933 and the first artificial self-sustaining nuclear chain reaction (Chicago Pile-1) had taken place in December 1942, the Trinity test and the ensuing bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki that ended World War II represented the first large-scale use of nuclear technology and ushered in profound changes in sociopolitical thinking and the course of technology development.\n\nWhile atomic power was promoted for a time as the epitome of progress and modernity, entering into the nuclear power era also entailed frightful implications of nuclear warfare, the Cold War, mutual assured destruction, nuclear proliferation, the risk of nuclear disaster (potentially as extreme as anthropogenic global nuclear winter), as well as beneficial civilian applications in nuclear medicine. It is no easy matter to fully segregate peaceful uses of nuclear technology from military or terrorist uses (such as the fabrication of dirty bombs from radioactive waste), which complicated the development of a global nuclear-power export industry right from the outset.\n\nIn 1973, concerning a flourishing nuclear power industry, the United States Atomic Energy Commission predicted that, by the turn of the 21st century, one thousand reactors would be producing electricity for homes and businesses across the U.S. However, the \"nuclear dream\" fell far short of what was promised because nuclear technology produced a range of social problems, from the nuclear arms race to nuclear meltdowns, and the unresolved difficulties of bomb plant cleanup and civilian plant waste disposal and decommissioning. Since 1973, reactor orders declined sharply as electricity demand fell and construction costs rose. Many orders and partially completed plants were cancelled.\n\nBy the late 1970s, nuclear power had suffered a remarkable international destabilization, as it was faced with economic difficulties and widespread public opposition, coming to a head with the Three Mile Island accident in 1979, and the Chernobyl disaster in 1986, both of which adversely affected the nuclear power industry for many decades.\n\nIn 1901, Frederick Soddy and Ernest Rutherford discovered that radioactivity was part of the process by which atoms changed from one kind to another, involving the release of energy. Soddy wrote in popular magazines that radioactivity was a potentially “inexhaustible” source of energy, and offered a vision of an atomic future where it would be possible to “transform a desert continent, thaw the frozen poles, and make the whole earth one smiling Garden of Eden.” The promise of an “atomic age,” with nuclear energy as the global, utopian technology for the satisfaction of human needs, has been a recurring theme ever since. But \"Soddy also saw that atomic energy could possibly be used to create terrible new weapons\".\n\nThe concept of a nuclear chain reaction was hypothesized in 1933, shortly after Chadwick's discovery of the neutron. Only a few years later, in December 1938 nuclear fission was discovered by Otto Hahn and his assistant Fritz Strassmann, and proved with Hahn's radiochemical methods. The first artificial self-sustaining nuclear chain reaction (Chicago Pile-1, or CP-1) took place in December 1942 under the leadership of Enrico Fermi.\n\nIn 1945, the pocketbook \"The Atomic Age\" heralded the untapped atomic power in everyday objects and depicted a future where fossil fuels would go unused. One science writer, David Dietz, wrote that instead of filling the gas tank of your car two or three times a week, you will travel for a year on a pellet of atomic energy the size of a vitamin pill. Glenn T. Seaborg, who chaired the Atomic Energy Commission, wrote \"there will be nuclear powered earth-to-moon shuttles, nuclear powered artificial hearts, plutonium heated swimming pools for SCUBA divers, and much more\".\n\nThe phrase \"Atomic Age\" was coined by William L. Laurence, a New York Times journalist who became the official journalist for the Manhattan Project which developed the first nuclear weapons. He witnessed both the Trinity test and the bombing of Nagasaki and went on to write a series of articles extolling the virtues of the new weapon. His reporting before and after the bombings helped to spur public awareness of the potential of nuclear technology and in part motivated development of the technology in the U.S. and in the Soviet Union. The Soviet Union would go on to test its first nuclear weapon in 1949.\n\nIn 1949, U.S. Atomic Energy Commission chairman, David Lilienthal stated that \"atomic energy is not simply a search for new energy, but more significantly a beginning of human history in which faith in knowledge can vitalize man's whole life\".\n\nThe phrase gained popularity as a feeling of nuclear optimism emerged in the 1950s in which it was believed that all power generators in the future would be atomic in nature. The atomic bomb would render all conventional explosives obsolete and nuclear power plants would do the same for power sources such as coal and oil. There was a general feeling that everything would use a nuclear power source of some sort, in a positive and productive way, from irradiating food to preserve it, to the development of nuclear medicine. There would be an age of peace and plenty in which atomic energy would \"provide the power needed to desalinate water for the thirsty, irrigate the deserts for the hungry, and fuel interstellar travel deep into outer space\". This use would render the Atomic Age as significant a step in technological progress as the first smelting of Bronze, of Iron, or the commencement of the Industrial Revolution.\n\nThis included even cars, leading Ford to display the Ford Nucleon concept car to the public in 1958. There was also the promise of golf balls which could always be found and nuclear-powered aircraft, which the US federal government even spent US $1.5 billion researching. Nuclear policymaking became almost a collective technocratic fantasy, or at least was driven by fantasy:\n\nThe very idea of splitting the atom had an almost magical grip on the imaginations of inventors and policymakers. As soon as someone said – in an even mildly credible way – that these things \"could\" be done, then people quickly convinced themselves ... that they \"would\" be done.\nIn the USA, military planners \"believed that demonstrating the civilian applications of the atom would also affirm the American system of private enterprise, showcase the expertise of scientists, increase personal living standards, and defend the democratic lifestyle against communism\".\n\nSome media reports predicted that thanks to the giant nuclear power stations of the near future electricity would soon become much cheaper and that electricity meters would be removed, because power would be \"too cheap to meter.\"\n\nWhen the Shippingport reactor went online in 1957 it produced electricity at a cost roughly ten times that of coal-fired generation. Scientists at the AEC's own Brookhaven Laboratory \"wrote a 1958 report describing accident scenarios in which 3,000 people would die immediately, with another 40,000 injured\".\n\nHowever Shippingport was an experimental reactor using highly enriched uranium (unlike most power reactors) and originally intended for a (cancelled) nuclear-powered aircraft carrier. Kenneth Nichols was a consultant for the Connecticut Yankee and Yankee Rowe nuclear power stations wrote that while considered \"experimental\" and not expected to be competitive with coal and oil, they \"became competitive because of inflation... and the large increase in price of coal and oil.\" He wrote that for nuclear power stations the capital cost is the major cost factor over the life of the plant, hence \"antinukes\" try to increase costs and building time with changing regulations and lengthly hearings, so that \"it takes almost twice as long to build a (US-designed boiling-water or pressurised water) atomic power plant in the United States as in France, Japan, Taiwan or South Korea.\" French pressurised-water nuclear plants produce 60% of their electric power, and have proven to be much cheaper than oil or coal. \n\nFear of possible atomic attack from the Soviet Union caused U.S. school children to participate in \"duck and cover\" civil defense drills.\n\nDuring the 1950s, Las Vegas, Nevada, earned the nickname \"Atomic City\" for becoming a hotspot where tourists would gather to watch above-ground nuclear weapons tests taking place at Nevada Test Site. Following the detonation of Able, one of the first atomic bombs dropped at the Nevada Test Site, the Las Vegas Chamber of Commerce began advertising the tests as an entertainment spectacle to tourists. \n\nThe detonations proved popular and casinos throughout the city capitalised on the tests by advertising hotel rooms or rooftops which offered views of the testing site or by planning \"Dawn Bomb Parties\" where people would come together to celebrate the detonations. Most parties started at midnight and musicians would perform at the venues until 4.00AM when the party would briefly stop so guests could silently watch the detonation. Some casinos capitalised on the tests further by creating atomic cocktails, a mixture of vodka, cognac, sherry and champagne. \n\nMeanwhile, groups of tourists would drive out into the desert with family or friends to watch the detonations. \n\nDespite the health risks associated with nuclear fallout, tourists and viewers were told to simply \"shower\". Later on, however, anyone who had worked at the testing site or lived in areas exposed to nuclear fallout fell ill and had higher chances of developing cancer or suffering pre-mature deaths.\n\nBy exploiting the peaceful uses of the \"friendly atom\" in medical applications, earth removal and, subsequently, in nuclear power plants, the nuclear industry and government sought to allay public fears about nuclear technology and promote the acceptance of nuclear weapons. At the peak of the Atomic Age, the United States government initiated Operation Plowshare, involving \"peaceful nuclear explosions\". The United States Atomic Energy Commission chairman announced that the Plowshares project was intended to \"highlight the peaceful applications of nuclear explosive devices and thereby create a climate of world opinion that is more favorable to weapons development and tests\".\n\nProject Plowshare “was named directly from the Bible itself, specifically Micah 4:3, which states that God will beat swords into ploughshares, and spears into pruning hooks, so that no country could lift up weapons against another”. Proposed uses included widening the Panama Canal, constructing a new sea-level waterway through Nicaragua nicknamed the Pan-Atomic Canal, cutting paths through mountainous areas for highways, and connecting inland river systems. Other proposals involved blasting underground caverns for water, natural gas, and petroleum storage. It was proposed to plant underground atomic bombs to extract shale oil in eastern Utah and western Colorado. Serious consideration was also given to using these explosives for various mining operations. One proposal suggested using nuclear blasts to connect underground aquifers in Arizona. Another plan involved surface blasting on the western slope of California's Sacramento Valley for a water transport project. However, there were many negative impacts from Project Plowshare’s 27 nuclear explosions. Consequences included blighted land, relocated communities, tritium-contaminated water, radioactivity, and fallout from debris being hurled high into the atmosphere. These were ignored and downplayed until the program was terminated in 1977, due in large part to public opposition, after $770 million had been spent on the project.\n\nIn the \"Thunderbirds\" TV series, a set of vehicles was presented that were imagined to be completely nuclear, as shown in cutaways presented in their comic-books.\n\nThe term \"atomic age\" was initially used in a positive, futuristic sense, but by the 1960s the threats posed by nuclear weapons had begun to edge out nuclear power as the dominant motif of the atom.\n\nFrench advocates of nuclear power developed an aesthetic vision of nuclear technology as art to bolster support for the technology. Leclerq compares the nuclear cooling tower to some of the grandest architectural monuments of western culture:\n\nThe age in which we live has, for the public, been marked by the nuclear engineer and the gigantic edifices he has created. For builders and visitors alike, nuclear power plants will be considered the cathedrals of the 20th century. Their syncretism mingles the conscious and the unconscious, religious fulfilment and industrial achievement, the limitations of uses of materials and boundless artistic inspiration, utopia come true and the continued search for harmony. \nIn 1973, the United States Atomic Energy Commission predicted that, by the turn of the 21st century, one thousand reactors would be producing electricity for homes and businesses across the USA. But after 1973, reactor orders declined sharply as electricity demand fell and construction costs rose. Many orders and partially completed plants were cancelled.\n\nNuclear power has proved controversial since the 1970s. Highly radioactive materials may overheat and escape from the reactor building. Nuclear waste (spent nuclear fuel) needs to be regularly removed from the reactors and disposed of safely for up to a million years, so that it does not pollute the environment. Recycling of nuclear waste has been discussed, but it creates plutonium which can be used in weapons, and in any case still leaves much unwanted waste to be stored and disposed of. Large, purpose-built facilities for long-term disposal of nuclear waste have been difficult to site, and have not yet reached fruition.\n\nBy the late 1970s, nuclear power suffered a remarkable international destabilization, as it was faced with economic difficulties and widespread public opposition, coming to a head with the Three Mile Island accident in 1979, and the Chernobyl disaster in 1986, both of which adversely affected the nuclear power industry for decades thereafter. A cover story in the February 11, 1985, issue of \"Forbes magazine\" commented on the overall management of the nuclear power program in the United States:\n\nThe failure of the U.S. nuclear power program ranks as the largest managerial disaster in business history, a disaster on a monumental scale … only the blind, or the biased, can now think that the money has been well spent. It is a defeat for the U.S. consumer and for the competitiveness of U.S. industry, for the utilities that undertook the program and for the private enterprise system that made it possible.\nSo, in a period just over 30 years, the early dramatic rise of nuclear power went into equally meteoric reverse. With no other energy technology has there been a conjunction of such rapid and revolutionary international emergence, followed so quickly by equally transformative demise.\n\nIn the 21st century, the label of the \"Atomic Age\" connotes either a sense of nostalgia or naïveté, and is considered by many to have ended with the fall of the Soviet Union in 1991, though the term continues to be used by many historians to describe the era following the conclusion of the Second World War. Atomic energy and weapons continue to have a strong effect on world politics in the 21st century. The term is used by some science fiction fans to describe not only the era following the conclusion of the Second World War but also contemporary history up to the present day.\n\nThe nuclear power industry has improved the safety and performance of reactors, and has proposed new safer (but generally untested) reactor designs but there is no guarantee that the reactors will be designed, built and operated correctly. Mistakes do occur and the designers of reactors at Fukushima in Japan did not anticipate that a tsunami generated by an earthquake would disable the backup systems that were supposed to stabilize the reactor after the earthquake. According to UBS AG, the Fukushima I nuclear accidents have cast doubt on whether even an advanced economy like Japan can master nuclear safety. Catastrophic scenarios involving terrorist attacks are also conceivable. An interdisciplinary team from MIT has estimated that if nuclear power use tripled from 2005–2055 (from 2% to 7%), at least four serious nuclear accidents would be expected in that period.\n\nIn September 2012, Japan announced that it would completely phase out nuclear power by 2030, although under the Abe administration this is now unlikely, with Germany, and other countries in reaction to the accident at Fukushima. Germany plans to completely phase-out nuclear energy by 2022.\n\nA large anti-nuclear demonstration was held on May 6, 1979, in Washington D.C., when 125,000 people including the Governor of California, attended a march and rally against nuclear power. In New York City on September 23, 1979, almost 200,000 people attended a protest against nuclear power. Anti-nuclear power protests preceded the shutdown of the Shoreham, Yankee Rowe, Millstone I, Rancho Seco, Maine Yankee, and about a dozen other nuclear power plants.\n\nOn June 12, 1982, one million people demonstrated in New York City's Central Park against nuclear weapons and for an end to the cold war arms race. It was the largest anti-nuclear protest and the largest political demonstration in American history. International Day of Nuclear Disarmament protests were held on June 20, 1983 at 50 sites across the United States.\nIn 1986, hundreds of people walked from Los Angeles to Washington DC in the Great Peace March for Global Nuclear Disarmament. There were many Nevada Desert Experience protests and peace camps at the Nevada Test Site during the 1980s and 1990s.\n\nOn May 1, 2005, 40,000 anti-nuclear/anti-war protesters marched past the United Nations in New York, 60 years after the atomic bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki. This was the largest anti-nuclear rally in the U.S. for several decades.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "539713", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539713", "title": "Beltinci", "text": "Beltinci\n\nBeltinci (; Prekmurje Slovene: \"Böltinci\", or \"Belatincz\", ) is a town in the Prekmurje region of northeastern Slovenia. It is the seat of the Municipality of Beltinci.\n\nUntil 1937, there was a Jewish Orthodox synagogue in Beltinci. It was built in 1860 and served the local Jewish community. On April 26, 1944, all of the Jews of the town were deported to the Auschwitz extermination camp, from which none of them returned.\n\nThe parish church in the settlement is dedicated to Saint Ladislaus and belongs to the Roman Catholic Diocese of Murska Sobota. It dates from 1742 with late 19th-century alterations.\n\nPopulation by native language, 2002 census\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3165181", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3165181", "title": "CNN effect", "text": "CNN effect\n\nThe CNN effect is a phenomenon in political science and media studies which states that CNN's use of shocking images of humanitarian crises around the world compels U.S. policy makers to intervene in humanitarian situations they may not otherwise have an interest in. The 24-hour international television news channel known as Cable News Network or CNN, had a major impact on the conduct of states' foreign policy in the late Cold War period and that CNN and its subsequent industry competitors have had a similar impact in the post Cold War era. While the free press has, in its role as the \"Fourth Estate,\" always had an influence on policy-making in representative democracies, proponents of the CNN effect argue that the extent, depth, and speed of the new global media have created a new species of effects qualitatively different from those that preceded them. The term's coinage reflects the pioneering role played by the network CNN in the field, whose \"saturation coverage\" of events like the Tiananmen Square protests of 1989, the fall of Communism in eastern Europe, the first Gulf War, and the Battle of Mogadishu was viewed as being strongly influential in bringing images and issues to the immediate forefront of American political consciousness and beyond. : Additionally, the CNN effect was the driving force behind the U.S. intervention of the Kurdish crisis and use of force by the army during the Bosnia war of 1992-1995. Despite these origins, the term as used generally refers to a broad range of real time modern media, and is not exclusive to CNN or even 24-hour news cycle broadcast cable news.\n\nIn his research paper \"Clarifying the CNN Effect: An examination of Media Effects According to Type of Military Intervention\", George Washington University professor Steven Livingston identifies three distinct aspects that fall under the broad term of the CNN effect. The media may function alternately or simultaneously as \n(1) a \"policy agenda-setting agent\", (2) an \"impediment\" to the achievement of desired policy goals, (3) an \"accelerant\" to policy decision-making. (Italics in original). and (4) one of the common grounds of CNN effect is policy uncertainty; as policy certainty reduces, media influence increases and vice versa.\n\nBy focusing instantaneous and ongoing media coverage on a particular conflict, international incident, or diplomatic initiative, the news cycle effectively demands political attention, as governing politicians attempt to demonstrate that they are \"on top of\" current issues. The effect has been, according to Margaret Belknap, that \"[t]he advent of real time news coverage has led to immediate public awareness and scrutiny of strategic decisions and military operations as they unfold\". Deeper penetration and wider broadcast of statements and actions by public figures may increase transparency, but it can also complicate sensitive diplomatic relationships between states or force an official reaction from governments that would otherwise prefer to minimize political risk by remaining noncommittal. The information revolution and spread of global mass media through the Internet and international 24-hour news thus accelerates the policy-making process, requiring a faster tempo of decision and action to forestall the appearance of a leadership vacuum.\n\nFormer Secretary of State James Baker said of the CNN effect \"The one thing it does, is to drive policymakers to have a policy position. I would have to articulate it very quickly. You are in real-time mode. You don't have time to reflect.\" His former press secretary, Margaret Tutwiler, mirrors his sentiment: \"Time for reaction is compressed. Analysis and intelligence gathering is out.\"\n\nWhile the \"CNN effect\" most commonly refers to the effect that news media have on politics and government during political conflict, its effect on decisions made during natural disasters is also noteworthy. As videos and images are broadcast worldwide immediately after or even during natural disasters, these images may convince the public to donate money or pressure governments for immediate action.\n\nThe \"CNN effect\" may have played a role in increasing aid following the Asian tsunami (2004), the Kashmir earthquake (2005), Hurricane Katrina (2005), and the Sichuan earthquake in China (2008). Following the Asian tsunami, for instance, the media \"blitz\" that followed this natural disaster may have helped prompt an unprecedented outpouring of donations. \"By February 2005, the international community had donated $500 per person affected by the tsunami, compared to just 50 cents for each person affected by Uganda’s 18-year war.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2036320", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2036320", "title": "Carlos Viegas Gago Coutinho", "text": "Carlos Viegas Gago Coutinho\n\nCarlos Viegas Gago Coutinho, GCTE, GCC, generally known simply as Gago Coutinho (; 17 February 1869 – 18 February 1959) was a Portuguese geographer, cartographer, naval officer, historian and aviator. An aviation pioneer, Gago Coutinho and Sacadura Cabral were the first to cross the South Atlantic Ocean by air, from March to June 1922, from Lisbon, Portugal, to Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.\n\nHe was born in Belém, Lisbon, in a modest family, the son of José Viegas Gago Coutinho and her cousin, Fortunata Maria Coutinho. He finished high school in 1885, and entered the Polytechnic School, where he studied for one year, as preparation for his enterance at the Naval School, in Alfeite, Almada, in 1886. \n\nHe joined the Navy in 1886 as an aspirant. In 1890, he was promoted to marine guard, in 1891 to second lieutenant, and in 1895 to first lieutenant. In 1907 he was promoted to captain-lieutenant and in 1915 to captain-of-frigate. In 1920 he became captain of sea-and-war. In 1922 he was promoted to vice-admiral, and in 1958 to admiral. During his first Navy years, he did several travels, being the first in the corvette \"Afonso de Albuquerque\", from 7 December 1888 to 16 January 1891, where he traveled to Mozambique as a member of the Naval Division of Eastern Africa. He did several naval travels the following years, until 31 March 1898, when he did his first commission as a overseas geographer, in Portuguese Timor. Since March 1898, Gago Coutinho activisties were developed mostly at the Cartography Commission, created in 1883. From 27 July 1898 to 19 April 1899, he was involved in field work, working at the delimitation of the borders and at the survey of the geographical chart of the most remote Portuguese colony. After is return to Portugal, he was assigned to work at the delimitation of the borders of Niassa territory in Mozambique, from 5 September 1900 to 28 February 1901. He then moved to Angola, where he worked at the delimitation of Noqui's borders, until the end of 1901. He returned to Mozambique, working for the borders delimitation in Tete district, between 27 February 1904 and 18 December 1905.\n\nGago Coutinho was nominated head of the Geodesical Mission of Eastern Africa in May 1907, a post he held until the beginning of 1911. It was during his assignment that he met Portuguese aviator pioneer Artur de Sacadura Cabral, who become his close friend and who would be his mentor for future aviation projects. Afterwards, he led the Portuguese mission that delimited Angola borders in Barotze, which was formed in 1912. The year after his return to Portugal, he was nominated the head of the Geodesical Mission of São Tomé and Príncipe, in 1915, which he was until middle 1919. In 1917, Gago Coutinho and Artur de Sacadura Cabral did their first flights together. In 1919, incentivated by his friend, he started to dedicate himself to the improvement of the aerial navigation methods. They took several flights together to study the methods, the most important was the first flight from Lisbon to Funchal, in Madeira, in 1919. Artur de Sacadura Cabral had already delineated by them the project of making the first aerial crossing of the South Atlantic, meant to take place in 1922, the year of the second centennial of the independence of Brazil. \n\nThe Fairey IIIB seaplane named \"Lusitânia\" used by Gago Coutinho and Sacadura Cabral for their transatlantic flight did not have enough fuel capacity to make the entire trip unaided so various stops were made along the way and the aviators were shadowed by a support ship, \"República\". On the journey down the Brazilian coast a heavy rain storm caused the aircraft's engine to fail and the aviators were forced to ditch in the ocean. Realizing that something was wrong, the \"República\" sent out a distress signal asking other ships in the area to look out for the seaplane. After some time in the water, the aviators were found by a British freighter. The \"Paris City\" of the Reardon Smith Line, under Captain A.E. Tamlyn, en route from Cardiff to Rio, rescued Coutinho and Cabral; they completed their journey with a new aircraft. A commemorative painting of the rescue was made by the Portuguese painter and cartoonist José Stuart Carvalhais.\n\nGago Coutinho invented a type of sextant incorporating two spirit levels to provide an artificial horizon. This adaptation of the traditional marine sextant allowed navigation without visual reference to the real horizon. He also invented an optical flight instrument, to be mounted on the plane's cockpit floor, which measures leeway in flight whenever ground remains visible.\n\nHe dedicated himself to the nautical history of the Portuguese Discoveries after 1924. His vast body of work later would be published in \"A Náutica dos Descobrimentos\" (\"The Nautical of the Discoveries\") (1951-1952), in two volumes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29856040", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29856040", "title": "Chronicle of the 24 Generals", "text": "Chronicle of the 24 Generals\n\nThe Chronicle of the 24 Generals of the Order of the Friars Minor () is a medieval chronicle written in Latin around 1370, possibly by the Franciscan monk Arnaud de Sarrant, though Ralf Lützelschwab doubts this attribution. The work deals with the history of Franciscan Order from its foundation by Saint Francis of Assisi to Leonardo Rossi (1373–1378), the 24th Minister General if counting Francis as the first. The chronicle contains detailed accounts of various miracles and martyrs. For example, the Chronicle describes the deaths of Berard and his companions, the first Franciscan martyrs, killed in Morocco in 1221. Overall, the Chronicle was heavily used by later Franciscan historians.\n\nIt is the earliest extant source for the incarceration of Roger Bacon.\n\n"}
{"id": "43970763", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43970763", "title": "Classical reception studies", "text": "Classical reception studies\n\nClassical reception studies is the study of how the Classical world, especially Ancient Greek literature and Latin literature, have been received since antiquity. Influenced by reception theory, it departs from the Classical tradition in various ways.\n\nLorna Hardwick and Christopher Stray assert that Classical reception studies is devoted to examining \"the ways in which Greek and Roman material has been transmitted, translated, excerpted, interpreted, rewritten, re-imaged and represented\". Martindale notes that Classical reception \"encompasses all work concerned with postclassical material\".\n\nHardwick and Stray state that scholars of reception studies hold the relationship between the ancient and modern to be reciprocal, although they acknowledge that others believe that reception studies only shed light on the receiving society, and not on the ancient text or its context.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23773961", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23773961", "title": "Common heritage of mankind", "text": "Common heritage of mankind\n\nCommon heritage of mankind (also termed the common heritage of humanity, common heritage of humankind or common heritage principle) is a principle of international law which holds that defined territorial areas and elements of humanity's common heritage (cultural and natural) should be held in trust for future generations and be protected from exploitation by individual nation states or corporations.\n\nIn his essay \"Toward Perpetual Peace\", Immanuel Kant claimed that the expansion of hospitality with regard to \"use of the right to the earth's surface which belongs to the human race in common\" would \"finally bring the human race ever closer to a cosmopolitan constitution\". The concept of \"Common Heritage of Mankind\", however, was first mentioned in the preamble to the 1954 Hague Convention for the Protection of Cultural Property in the Event of Armed Conflict. \n\nThe concept of 'Mankind' is also mentioned in outer space treaties. 'Mankind' as a subject in international law also appears in the Preamble of the United Nations Charter, the Preamble of the North Atlantic Treaty (1949) and the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (1968).\n\nIn 1970, United Nations General Assembly Resolution 2749, the \"Declaration of Principles Governing the Seabed and Ocean Floor\", was adopted by 108 nation states and stated that the deep seabed should be preserved for peaceful purposes and is the \"Common Heritage of Mankind.\"\n\nIn 1982, the Common Heritage of Mankind concept was stated to relate to \"the seabed and ocean floor and subsoil thereof, beyond the limits of national jurisdiction\" under Article 136 of the United Nations Law of the Sea Treaty (UNCLOS).\n\nPayoyo argues that the \"common heritage of humanity\" principle in Part XI of the Law of the Sea Treaty should favour developing states (who were the voice of conscience in establishing it), and not merely in some transient 'affirmative action' manner. He claims, however, that the 1994 \"Implementation Agreement\" facilitated control by industrialised countries of the International Seabed Authority (ISA), allowing access by the private sector to the deep sea bed and inhibiting constructive dialogue on sustainable development.\n\nMaltese Ambassador Arvid Pardo, one of the founders of the \"common heritage of humanity\" concept under international law, has claimed that it challenges the \"structural relationship between rich and poor countries\" and amounts to a \"revolution not merely in the law of the sea, but also in international relations\". One of the main architects of the principle under international space law has claimed that it is \"the most important legal principle achieved by man throughout thousands of years during which law has existed as the regulating element of social exchange\". This praise relates to the fact that international law in the \"common heritage of humanity\" principle is seeking to protect, respect and fulfill the interests of human beings independently of any politically motivated sovereign state; the concept covering all humans wherever they are living, as well as future generations.\n\nFrakes has identified five core components of the Common Heritage of Humanity concept. First, there can be no private or public appropriation; no one legally owns common heritage spaces. Second, representatives from all nations must manage resources contained in such a territorial or conceptual area on behalf of all since a commons area is considered to belong to everyone; this practically necessitating a special agency to coordinate shared management. Third, all nations must actively share with each other the benefits acquired from exploitation of the resources from the commons heritage region, this requiring restraint on the profit-making activities of private corporate entities; this linking the concept to that of global public good. Fourth, there can be no weaponry or military installations established in territorial commons areas. Fifth, the commons should be preserved for the benefit of future generations, and to avoid a \"tragedy of the commons\" scenario. Academic claims have been made that where the principle requires the establishment of an international resource management regime, prior to establishment of such a regime a moratorium on resource exploitation should be enforced. Such a position does not appear to have been supported by most states during the respective drafting negotiations.\n\nA similar principle of international law holds that the world's cultural and natural heritage (as nominated for listing by nation states) must be protected by states parties to the UNESCO World Heritage Convention.\n\nA case study in the use of these provisions was provided by the Franklin Dam non-violent protest campaign against the construction of a dam of Australia's last wild river; they being held by the Australian High Court to provide a valid basis for legislation protecting the Franklin River. Justice Lionel Murphy wrote in that case (\"Commonwealth v Tasmania\") about the Common Heritage of Humanity principle: \"The preservation of the world's heritage must not be looked at in isolation but as part of the co-operation between nations which is calculated to achieve intellectual and moral solidarity of mankind and so reinforce the bonds between people which promote peace and displace those of narrow nationalism and alienation which promote war ... [t]he encouragement of people to think internationally, to regard the culture of their own country as part of world culture, to conceive a physical, spiritual and intellectual world heritage, is important in the endeavour to avoid the destruction of humanity.\"\n\nThe UNESCO \"Universal Declaration on the Human Genome and Human Rights\" declares in Article 1 that: \"The human genome underlies the fundamental unity of all members of the human family, as well as the recognition of their inherent dignity and diversity. In a symbolic sense, it is the heritage of humanity.\" Article 4 states: \"The human genome in its natural state shall not give rise to financial gains.\" Such Declarations do not create binding obligations under international law (unless over time there is sufficient opinio juris and state practise to make them part of international customary law) so the impact of such principles of commercialisation of the human genome will be problematic. Whether the principle prohibits the patenting of the human genome is contested by the corporate sector.\n\nProclaimed on November 12, 1997, the UNESCO \"Declaration on the Responsibilities of the Present Generations Towards Future Generations\" is an international agreement (potentially part of international customary law) which includes provisions related to the \"common heritage of mankind\".\n\nIt was argued at the World Summit on the Information Society and has been advocated by academics that global communication between individuals over the internet should be regarded as part of the Common Heritage of Mankind. From a spiritual or natural law perspective, it has been argued that for world peace to be achieved, laws and government policies should create the social preconditions whereby conscience, properly understood, can be delinked from (often destructive) fundamentalist religious ideologies, and associated with a universal consciousness, access to which is the Common Heritage of Humanity. Such thinking with associated implications about how a sustainable world in the future should be regulated is common to members of the Global Ecovillage Network. Equatorial countries have proposed that the geostationary orbit over the high seas should be declared the \"common heritage of mankind\". It has been argued that a World government would manage common heritage areas according to principles of \"planetary democracy\". The international law concept of common heritage of humanity has also been linked with cosmopolitanism. Common heritage of humanity as a concept of international law is supported by many of the principles in the Earth Charter civil society Initiative\n\nKemal Baslar has stated that the Common Heritage of Mankind principle \"is a philosophical idea that questions the regimes of globally important resources regardless of their situation, and requires major changes in the world to apply its provisions. In other words, the application and enforcement of the common heritage of mankind require a critical reexamination of many well-established principles and doctrines of classical international law, such as acquisition of territory, consent-based sources of international law, sovereignty, equality, resource allocation and international personality.\"\n\nThe \"common heritage of humanity\" principle in international law has been viewed as one solution to the tragedy of the commons dilemma described in an influential article by that name written by Garrett Hardin in the journal \"Science\" in 1968. The article critically analyzes a dilemma in which multiple individuals, acting independently after rationally consulting self-interest, ultimately destroy a shared limited resource even when each acknowledges that outcome is not in anyone's long-term interest. Hardin's conclusion that commons areas are practicably achievable only in conditions of low population density and so their continuance requires state restriction on the freedom to breed, created controversy particularly through his deprecation of the role of conscience in achieving justice and equality in society. Hardin's views have been noted by scholars and policy-makers supporting privatization of common spaces and suggesting economic rationalism on such social and ecosystems. Though there are many that point out that as what we are seeking is a social contract, privatisation would actually annihilate any possibility of rational use - the land would simply be in enclosure. Hardin's views are based on Malthusian ideas of competition and over population, we have now accepted that it is the nature of man's consumption (not his numbers) that is causing the destruction of the environment.\n\nThe extent to which the Common Heritage of Mankind principle does or should control the activities of private multinational corporations as well as nation states, particularly with regard to mining activities, remains controversial. Underdeveloped nations often see the principle as a means of protecting critical resources from exploitation by capitalist nations and their corporations. As world oil, coal and mineral reserves are depleted there will be increasing pressure to commercially exploit Common Heritage of Mankind areas. It appears at the present time that exploration of outer space is unlikely to initially proceed under the jurisdiction of a supranational organization, but rather through the coordination of national space programs. It has been argued that photosynthesis in its natural or artificial forms should be considered the common heritage of humanity.\n\n"}
{"id": "11711122", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11711122", "title": "David Hume of Godscroft", "text": "David Hume of Godscroft\n\nDavid Hume (or Home; 1558–1629) was a Scottish historian and political theorist, poet and controversialist, a major intellectual figure in Jacobean Scotland. It has been said that \"Hume marks the culmination of the Scottish humanist tradition.\"\n\nConfusion is possible with David Hume or Home, Scottish minister at Duras in France, a contemporary: they had quite different views on the union with England. \n\nHe was the second son of Sir David Hume or Home, seventh baron of Wedderburn, a Roman Catholic traditionalist of the Merse (now Berwickshire), who had married an active Calvinist wife in Mary Johnston of Elphinstone. He studied at Dunbar grammar school, under Andrew Simson. He then entered the University of St Andrews in 1578, and after a course of study there travelled on the continent. From France he went on to Geneva, intending to travel to Italy.\n\nHume was recalled to Scotland by the serious illness of his elder brother George, returning about 1581. Both brothers supported the Ruthven raid of 1582. In 1583 he was residing as private secretary with his relative Archibald Douglas, 8th Earl of Angus, who was ordered, after James VI withdrew his confidence from the Ruthven lords, to remain in the north of Scotland.\n\nDuring the exile of the Ruthven party at Newcastle, Hume was in London, ostensibly studying, but actively interesting himself in Angus and his cause. The lords, with Hume, returned to Scotland in 1585, and between that date and 1588, when Angus died.\n\nIn later life Hume devoted himself to literature on his property of Gowkscroft, a farming hamlet 2 miles to the north of Abbey St. Bathans, in the Lammermuir Hills, Berwickshire, which he renamed Godscroft, and styled himself Theagrius when he figured as a Latin poet. \n\nHume supported his patron Angus's policy in a series of letters (preserved in the \"History of the Houses of Douglas and Angus\") on the doctrine of obedience to princes. A discussion of a sermon on the same theme by the Rev. John Craig is the subject of \"Conference betwixt the Erle of Angus and Mr. David Hume,\" which is printed in David Calderwood's \"History of the Kirk of Scotland\". Hume contests in this dialogue, based on actual conversation, the political theories of Jean Bodin and Adam Blackwood. \n\nIn 1605 a union tract by Robert Pont suggested Hume's treatise \"De Unione Insulæ Britanniæ\", a study in how to effect the closer political union of Scotland and England. The first part \"Tractatus I.\" was published in London (1605). In terms of the Jacobean debate on the Union, Hume went further than anyone else in looking to a unified \"British society\" to result from the Union of the Crowns of 1603. \n\nOn the relative values of episcopacy and presbytery, Hume was a persistent polemicist in discussing the theme: first with James Law, bishop of Orkney, from 1608 to 1611; and secondly, in 1613, with William Cowper, bishop of Galloway. He was also responsible about the same time for \"De Episcopatu, 1 May 1609, Patricio Simsono,\" to Patrick Simson. Hume's other major Latin prose writings are his unpublished attack on William Camden for his depreciatory view of Scotland, written in 1617—\"Cambdenia; id est, Examen nonnullorum a Gulielmo Cambreno in \"Britannia,\"\"—and a work dedicated to Charles I (Paris, 1626), entitled \"Apologia Basilica; seu Machiavelli Ingenium Examinatum, in libro quem inscripsit Princeps\".\n\nHume wrote Latin poems when very young, and received the commendation of George Buchanan. Buchanan was an intellectual leader for the Scottish Presbyterians, among whom Hume was prominent, and as a close a follower as Buchanan had. In the end he showed dislike for the \"angry\" Buchanan, who had a quite different view of the Douglas family.\n\nHume's \"Daphn-Amaryllis\" was a celebration of Anglo-Scottish union, printed in Edinburgh and London editions, in 1603–5. It consists of four eclogues, and drew on the \"Liber Pluscardensis\" and John Mair's \"Historia\", in a setting of \"leonine prophecy\". In citing this poem in his second union \"Tractatus\", Hume explicitly references both the Lion of Judah (associated with the Davidic Kingdom), and the Lion of Scotland, linking both with the \"Lion of the North\" prophecy of Paul Grebner; with a simple heraldic code, he also indicated the expansionism of the new kingdom, desiring the removal of the tressure bordering the Scottish lion rampant (harking back to the time of James III of Scotland).\n\nThe \"Lusus Poetici\" (1605) were ultimately incorporated in Arthur Johnston's \"Deliciæ Poetarum Scotorum\" (1637). When Henry Frederick, Prince of Wales died, Hume wrote a memorial tribute entitled \"Henrici Principis Justa\", and in 1617 he welcomed the king back to Scotland in his \"Regi suo Gratulatio.\" His collected Latin poems were twice issued in Paris, in 1632 and 1639, the second time with additions under the care of his son James, and with the title: \"Davidis Humii Wedderburnensis Poemata Omnia. Accessere ad finem Unio Britannica et Prœlium ad Lipsiam soluta oratione.\"\n\nHume was a partisan panegyricist of the Douglas family. He is also said to have \"plundered Scottish history for exemplars\" within the Douglases, and with the aim of encouraging military services to the king. Arthur Williamson has argued that \"Scots wrote histories of great families as general histories of Scotland\". A grandson of Alison Douglas, herself a granddaughter of Archibald Douglas, 5th Earl of Angus, Hume has as his main patron William Douglas, 11th Earl of Angus, later the 1st Marquess of Douglas. He is not thought an accurate historian, as far as Douglas involvement is concerned.\n\nHume's \"History of the House and Race of Douglas and Angus\" was printed at Edinburgh in 1644 by Evan Tyler, the king's printer. He is thought to have finished the history between 1625 and 1630 (around the year of his death). The political message of the work includes the idea that direct action against \"evil advisers\" of a king is permissible to defend customary rights; and even against the king. The title-pages of early copies vary, with some having the title \"A Generall History of Scotland, together with a particular History of the Houses of Douglas and Angus\". Confusion arose when the editor, Anna Hume, encountered opposition of Angus, who resented the use which Hume had made of some of the material in the family archives. \n\nThe work begins with Sholto Douglas, conqueror of Donald Bane, and concludes with Archibald Douglas, 8th Earl of Angus, who is eulogised in a Latin ode and numerous elegiacs. Another manuscript history of the family brings the record close to the death of William Douglas, 10th Earl of Angus, in 1611, and is ascribed to that earl. The tenth earl's son, William Douglas, is said to have threatened its publication in order that Hume's work might be superseded, but owing to the good offices of Drummond of Hawthornden the threat came to nothing.\n\nHume's \"History of the House of Wedderburn, written by a Son of the Family, in the year 1611,\" was a Latin eulogy, \"Davidis Humii de Familia Humia Wedderburnensi Liber\". It begins with David, the first laird of Wedderburn, about the end of the fourteenth century. It closes with an account of Hume's own early career in connection with that of his elder brother, to whom, along with the Earl of Home, it is dedicated. It remained in manuscript till 1839, when it was printed by the Abbotsford Club.\n\nHume married in 1594 Barbara Johnston, widow of his friend James Haldane. They had five children. His daughter Anna Hume was known as an editor, and his son ( 1630) as a mathematician.\n\n"}
{"id": "13592746", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13592746", "title": "Eichō", "text": "Eichō\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32261538", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32261538", "title": "Ernst Peter Fischer", "text": "Ernst Peter Fischer\n\nErnst Peter Fischer (born 18 January 1947, in Wuppertal) is a German historian of science, and a science publicist.\n\nErnst Peter Fischer studied mathematics, physics and biology and graduated from the California Institute of Technology in 1977. In 1987 he qualified as a university lecturer in the history of science, and taught as a professor at the University of Konstanz. Between 1989 and 1999 he was publisher of the \"Mannheimer Forum\" This position was previously held by Hoimar von Ditfurth.\n\nDuring his free days, Fischer also engaged in scientific journalism, as well as spending time as a mentor. He worked as a publisher for the \"Stiftung Forum für Verantwortung\".\n\nAs a science publisher, Fisher wrote articles for several newspapers. Among them were \"GEO\", \"Bild der Wissenschaft\", Die Weltwoche and the Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung.\n\nFischer's published work has received multiple awards.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "386517", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=386517", "title": "Gerald Massey", "text": "Gerald Massey\n\nGerald Massey (; 29 May 1828 – 29 October 1907) was an English poet and writer on Spiritualism and Ancient Egypt.\n\nMassey was born near Tring, Hertfordshire in England to poor parents. When little more than a child, he was made to work hard in a silk factory, which he afterward deserted for the equally laborious occupation of straw plaiting. These early years were rendered gloomy by much distress and deprivation, against which the young man strove with increasing spirit and virility, educating himself in his spare time, and gradually cultivating his innate taste for literary work. He was attracted by the movement known as Christian socialism, into which he threw himself with whole-hearted vigour, and so became associated with Frederick Denison Maurice and Charles Kingsley.\n\nFrom about 1870 onwards, Massey became increasingly interested in Egyptology and the similarities that exist between ancient Egyptian mythology and the Gospel stories. He studied the extensive Egyptian records housed in the Assyrian and Egyptology section of the British Museum in London where he worked closely with the curator, Dr. Samuel Birch, and other leading Egyptologists of his day, even learning hieroglyphics at the time the Temple of Horus at Edfu was first being excavated.\n\nMassey's first public appearance as a writer was in connection with a journal called the \"Spirit of Freedom\", of which he became editor, and he was only twenty-two when he published his first volume of poems, \"Voices of Freedom and Lyrics of Love\" (1850). These he followed in rapid succession with \"The Ballad of Babe Christabel\" (1854), \"War Waits\" (1855), \"Havelock's March\" (1860), and \"A Tale of Eternity\" (1869).\n\nIn 1889, Massey published a two-volume collection of his poems called \"My Lyrical Life\". He also published works dealing with Spiritualism, the study of Shakespeare's sonnets (1872 and 1890), and theological speculation. It is generally understood that he was the original of George Eliot's Felix Holt.\n\nMassey's poetry has a certain rough and vigorous element of sincerity and strength which easily accounts for its popularity at the time of its production. He treated the theme of Sir Richard Grenville before Tennyson thought of using it, with much force and vitality. Indeed, Tennyson's own praise of Massey's work is still its best eulogy, for the Laureate found in him a poet of fine lyrical impulse, and of a rich half-Oriental imagination. The inspiration of his poetry is a combination of his vast knowledge based on travels, research and experiences; he was a patriotic humanist to the core. His poem \"The Merry, Merry May\" was set to music in 1894 by the composer Cyril Rootham and then in a popular song by composer Christabel Baxendale.\n\nMassey was a believer in spiritual evolution; he opined that Darwin's theory of evolution was incomplete without spiritualism:The theory contains only one half the explanation of man's origins and needs spiritualism to carry it through and complete it. For while this ascent on the physical side has been progressing through myriads of ages, the Divine descent has also been going on – man being spiritually an incarnation from the Divine as well as a human development from the animal creation. The cause of the development is spiritual. Mr. Darwin's theory does not in the least militate against ours – we think it necessitates it; he simply does not deal with our side of the subject. He can not go lower than the dust of the earth for the matter of life; and for us, the main interest of our origin must lie in the spiritual domain.\n\nIn regard to Ancient Egypt, Massey first published \"The Book of the Beginnings\", followed by \"The Natural Genesis\". His most prolific work is \"Ancient Egypt: The Light of the World\", published shortly before his death.\n\nLike Godfrey Higgins a half-century earlier, Massey believed that Western religions had Egyptian roots. Massey wrote,The human mind has long suffered an eclipse and been darkened and dwarfed in the shadow of ideas the real meaning of which has been lost to moderns. Myths and allegories whose significance was once unfolded in the Mysteries have been adopted in ignorance and reissued as real truths directly and divinely vouchsafed to humanity for the first and only time! The early religions had their myths interpreted. We have ours misinterpreted. And a great deal of what has been imposed on us as God’s own true and sole revelation to us is a mass of inverted myths.\n\nOne of the more important aspects of Massey's writings were his assertions that there were parallels between Jesus and the Egyptian god Horus, primarily contained in the book \"The Natural Genesis\" first published in 1883. Massey, for example, argued in the book his belief that: both Horus and Jesus were born of virgins on 25 December, raised men from the dead (Massey speculates that the biblical Lazarus, raised from the dead by Jesus, has a parallel in \"El-Asar-Us\", a title of Osiris), died by crucifixion and were resurrected three days later. These assertions have influenced various later writers such as Alvin Boyd Kuhn, Tom Harpur, Yosef Ben-Jochannan, and Dorothy M. Murdock. Christian ignorance notwithstanding, the Gnostic Jesus is the Egyptian Horus who was continued by the various sects of gnostics under both the names of Horus and of Jesus. In the gnostic iconography of the Roman Catacombs child-Horus reappears as the mummy-babe who wears the solar disc. The royal Horus is represented in the cloak of royalty, and the phallic emblem found there witnesses to Jesus being Horus of the resurrection.\n\nChristian theologian W. Ward Gasque, a Ph.D. from Harvard and Manchester University, sent emails to twenty Egyptologists that he considered leaders of the field – including Kenneth Kitchen of the University of Liverpool and Ron Leprohon of the University of Toronto – in Canada, the United States, Britain, Australia, Germany and Austria to verify academic support for some of these assertions. His primary targets were Tom Harpur, Alvin Boyd Kuhn and the Christ myth theory, and only indirectly Massey. Ten out of twenty responded, but most were not named. According to Gasque, Massey's work, which draws comparisons between the Judeo-Christian religion and the Egyptian religion, is not considered significant in the field of modern Egyptology and is not mentioned in the \"Oxford Encyclopedia of Ancient Egypt\" or similar reference works of modern Egyptology. Gasque reports that those who responded were unanimous in dismissing the proposed etymologies for Jesus and Christ, and one unspecified Egyptologist referred to Alvin Boyd Kuhn's comparison as \"fringe nonsense.\" However, Harpur's response to Gasque quotes leading contemporary Egyptologist Erik Hornung that there are parallels between Christianity and ancient Egypt, as do the writings of biblical expert Thomas L. Thompson.\n\nTheologian Stanley E. Porter has pointed out that Massey's analogies include a number of errors. For example, Massey stated that 25 December as the date of birth of Jesus was selected based on the birth of Horus, but the New Testament does not include any reference to the date or season of the birth of Jesus. The earliest known source recognizing 25 December as the date of birth of Jesus is by Hippolytus of Rome, written around the beginning of the 3rd century, based on the assumption that the conception of Jesus took place at the Spring equinox. Hippolytus placed the equinox on 25 March and then added 9 months to get 25 December, thus establishing the date for festivals. The Roman Chronography of 354 then included an early reference to the celebration of a Nativity feast in December, as of the fourth century. Porter states that Massey's serious historical errors often render his works nonsensical. For example, Massey states that the biblical references to Herod the Great were based on the myth of \"Herrut\" the evil hydra serpent, while the existence of Herod the Great can be well established without reliance on Christian sources.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1582131", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1582131", "title": "Giuseppe Ferrari (philosopher)", "text": "Giuseppe Ferrari (philosopher)\n\nGiuseppe Ferrari (7 March 1812 – 2 July 1876) was an Italian philosopher, historian and politician.\n\nHe was born at Milan, studied Law at Pavia and graduated in 1831. A follower of Romagnosi and Giovan Battista Vico, his first works were an article in the \"Biblioteca Italiana\" (\"Italian Library\") entitled \"Mente di Gian Domenico Romagnosi\" (1835), and a complete edition of the works of Vico, prefaced by an appreciation (1865).\n\nFinding Italy uncongenial to his ideas, he went to France and, in 1839, produced in Paris his \"Vico ci l'Italie\", followed by \"La Nouvelle Religion de Campanella\" and \"La Théorie de l'erreur\". On account of these works he was made Docteur-ès‑lettres of the Sorbonne and professor of philosophy at Rochefort (1840). His views, however, provoked antagonism, and in 1842 he was appointed to the chair of philosophy at Strasbourg. After fresh trouble with the clergy, he returned to Paris and published a defence of his theories in a work entitled \"Idées sur la politique de Platon et d'Aristote\". After a short connection with the college at Bourges, he devoted himself from 1849 to 1858 exclusively to writing. The works of this period are \"Les Philosophes Salariés, Machiavel juge des revolutions de notre temps\" (1849), \"La Federazione repubblicana\" (1851), \"La Filosofia della rivoluzione\" (1851), \"L' Italia dopo il colpo di Stato\" (1852), \"Histoire des révolutions, ou Guelfes et Gibelins\" (1858).\nIn 1859 he returned to Italy, where he opposed Cavour, and upheld federalism against the policy of a single Italian monarchy. In spite of this opposition, he held chairs of philosophy at Turin, Milan and Rome in succession, and during several administrations represented the college of Gavirate in the chamber. He was a member of the council of education and was made senator on 15 May 1876; but he died just six weeks later.\n\nAmongst other works may be mentioned \"Histoire de la Raison d'État\", \"Corso di storia degli scrittori politici italiani\", and \"La China e l'Europa\". In the last mentioned work, Ferrari anticipated the emergence of superpowers, arguing that their emergence would destroy European dominance in favor of Russia, America, and, eventually, China. A skeptic in philosophy and a revolutionist in politics, rejoicing in controversy of all kinds, he was admired as a man, as an orator, and as a writer.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51692665", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51692665", "title": "Gregory Areshian", "text": "Gregory Areshian\n\nGregory Areshian (13 May 1949) is an Armenian-American archeologist and historian who is a professor at American University of Armenia. He was the co-director of the international team of archeologists who, led by Boris Gasparyan, found the 5,500 years old shoe in and the oldest winery in Areni, of which Areshian said:\n\nFor the first time, we have a complete archaeological picture of wine production dating back 6,100 years.\n\nGregory Areshian taught in 14 US universities and colleges including University of California, Los Angeles, University of California, Irvine, University of Chicago, University of Wisconsin, Platteville, Amherst College. He is the author of more than 150 scholarly works published in 5 languages in 12 countries, mostly devoted to interdisciplinary studies in social sciences and the humanities with a special focus on the Middle East and Armenia in a broader historical context.\n\nGregory Areshian received his bachelor's and master's degree from Yerevan State University where he studied from 1966 to 1973. From 1973 until 1975 Gregory Areshian pursued his PhD studies at the Saint Petersburg State University under the supervision of Boris Piotrovsky. His thesis was \"Iron in Ancient Western Asia\".\n\nGregory Areshian knows 9 languages; English, Russian, Armenian, German, French, Latin, Turkish, Grabar and Urartian cuneiform.\n\nIn 2017 a Festschrift was published in honor of Gregory Areshian under the title\"Bridging Times and Spaces: Papers in Ancient Near Eastern, Mediterranean and Armenian Studies.\" The editors of the volume were Pavel Avetisyan, a former student of Gregory Areshian and Yervand Grekyan.\n\n\n1973* Maloazijskie formy v keramike Armenii srednego bronzovogo veka (Anatolian Shapes in Middle Bronze Age Pottery from Armenia). Sovetskaja arkheologija (Soviet Archaeology), no. 4:40 – 49.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17034254", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17034254", "title": "Hans Hildebrand", "text": "Hans Hildebrand\n\nHans Olof Hildebrand Hildebrand (5 April 1842 in Stockholm – 2 February 1913) was a Swedish archeologist. Born in Stockholm, he was the son of Bror Emil Hildebrand and Anna Mathilda Ekecrantz. He was the brother of Emil Hildebrand, and in 1867 married Elin Maria Charlotta Martin. \n\nHildebrand, along with his father and his colleague Oscar Montelius, is considered one of the fathers of Swedish archaeology. He worked both in archaeology and numismatics, mainly of the High and Late Middle Ages. He is internationally known as one of the pioneers of the archaeological technique of typology.\n\nBetween 1895 and his death, Hildebrand was Director-General of the Swedish Academy. From 1879-1907 he was also Secretary to the Royal Swedish Academy of Letters, History and Antiquities and Custodian of the National Heritage, \"riksantikvarie\". Whilst at the Academy of Letters he contributed to the foundation of the journal \"Fornvännen\". He was a member of the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences from 1891. He gave the Rhind Lectures in 1896, on \"Industrial arts of Scandinavia in pagan times\".\n"}
{"id": "25973716", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25973716", "title": "Juan de Tecto", "text": "Juan de Tecto\n\nJuan de Tecto (born in Ghent, 1468; died in Honduras, 1526) was a Flemish missionary to the New World.\n\nHe graduated as D.D. in Paris, and was for several years professor of theology in the Sorbonne University, and afterward chaplain of Emperor Charles V, and guardian of a convent of Franciscans at Ghent. In 1522 Charles V, who was much attached to him, gave him permission to go to the New World. Tecto settled at Texcoco, where he founded missions for the natives and learned their language.\n\nHe accompanied Hernán Cortés in his expedition to Hibueras in 1525, and as, owing to the rebellion of Cristobal de Olid, no provisions were obtainable, Tecto, exhausted, fell behind the army, and was found later by a patrol leaning against a tree, where he had died of hunger. According to Bernal Diaz del Castillo, another source, he was sent by Cortés to report to the emperor about the conquest of Hibueras, and died at sea, off the coast of Spain.\n\nTecto is the author of two works: \"Primeros rudimentos de la doctrina Cristiana en lengua Mexicana\" (Rudiments of Christian Doctrine in the Mexican Language), a manuscript which was utilized by Fray Pedro de Gante for his \"Catecismo Mexicano\" (Mexican catechism); and \"Apología del bautismo administrate á los gentiles Mexicanos con sola el agua y la forma Sacramental\", which is cited by Fray Juan de Torquemada in his \"Monarquía Indiana\".\n\n"}
{"id": "290392", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290392", "title": "Julius Evola", "text": "Julius Evola\n\nBaron Giulio Cesare Andrea Evola (; ; 19 May 1898 – 11 June 1974), better known as Julius Evola, was an Italian philosopher, painter, and esotericist. He has been described as a \"fascist intellectual,\" a \"radical traditionalist,\" \"antiegalitarian, antiliberal, antidemocratic, and antipopular,\" and as having been \"the leading philosopher of Europe's neofascist movement.\"\n\nEvola is popular in fringe circles, largely because of his extreme metaphysical, magical, and supernatural beliefs (including belief in ghosts, telepathy, and alchemy), and his extreme traditionalism and misogyny. He himself termed his philosophy \"magical idealism.\" Many of Evola's theories and writings were centered on his idiosyncratic mysticism, occultism, and esoteric religious studies, and this aspect of his work has influenced occultists and esotericists. Evola also justified rape (among other forms of male domination of women) because he saw it \"as a natural expression of male desire\". This misogynistic outlook stemmed from his extreme right views on gender roles, which demanded absolute submission from women.\n\nAccording to the scholar Franco Ferraresi, \"Evola's thought can be considered one of the most radical and consistent anti-egalitarian, anti-liberal, anti-democratic, and anti-popular systems in the twentieth century. It is a singular (though not necessarily original) blend of several schools and traditions, including German idealism, Eastern doctrines, traditionalism, and the all-embracing \"Weltanschauung\" of the interwar conservative revolutionary movement with which Evola had a deep personal involvement\". Historian Aaron Gillette described Evola as \"one of the most influential fascist racists in Italian history\". He admired SS head Heinrich Himmler, whom he once met. Evola spent World War II working for the \"Sicherheitsdienst\". During his trial in 1951, Evola denied being a fascist and instead referred to himself as a \"superfascist\". Concerning this statement, historian Elisabetta Cassina Wolff wrote that \"It is unclear whether this meant that Evola was placing himself above or beyond Fascism\".\n\nEvola was the \"chief ideologue\" of Italy's radical right after World War II. He continues to influence contemporary traditionalist and neo-fascist movements.\n\nGiulio Cesare Andrea Evola was born in Rome to a minor aristocratic family of Sicilian origins. He was a baron. Little is known about his early upbringing except that he considered it irrelevant. Evola studied engineering in Rome, but did not complete his studies because he \"did not want to be associated in any way with bourgeois academic recognition and titles such as doctor and engineer.\"\n\nIn his teenage years, Evola immersed himself in painting—which he considered one of his natural talents—and literature, including Oscar Wilde and Gabriele d'Annunzio. He was introduced to philosophers such as Friedrich Nietzsche and Otto Weininger. Other early philosophical influences included Carlo Michelstaedter and Max Stirner.\n\nEvola served in World War I as an artillery officer on the Asiago plateau. He was attracted to the avant-garde and after the war, Evola briefly associated with Filippo Tommaso Marinetti's Futurist movement. He became a prominent representative of Dadaism in Italy through his painting, poetry, and collaboration on the briefly published journal, \"Revue Bleue\". In 1922, after concluding that avant-garde art was becoming commercialized and stiffened by academic conventions, he reduced his focus on artistic expression such as painting and poetry.\n\nEvola died on 11 June 1974 in Rome.\n\nIn 1928, Evola wrote an attack on Christianity titled \"Pagan Imperialism\", which proposed transforming fascism into a system consistent with ancient Roman values and the ancient mystery traditions. Evola proposed that fascism should be a vehicle for reinstating the caste system and aristocracy of antiquity. Although Evola invoked the term \"fascism\" in this text, his diatribe against the Catholic Church was criticized by both the fascist regime and the Vatican itself. A. James Gregor argued that the text was an attack on fascism as it stood at the time of writing, but noted that Benito Mussolini made use of it in order to threaten the Vatican with the possibility of an \"anti-clerical fascism\". On account of Evola's sentiment, the Vatican-backed right wing Catholic journal \"Revue Internationale des Sociétés Secrètes\" published an article in April 1928 entitled \"Un Sataniste Italien: Julius Evola.\"\n\n\"The Mystery of the Grail\" discarded Christian interpretations of the Holy Grail. Evola wrote that the Grail \"symbolizes the principle of an immortalizing and transcendent force connected to the primordial state ... The mystery of the Grail is a mystery of a warrior initiation.\" He held that the Ghibellines, who fought the Guelph for control of Northern and Central Italy in the thirteenth century, had within them the residual influences of pre-Christian Celtic and Nordic traditions that represented his conception of the Grail myth. He also held that the Guelph victory against the Ghibellines represented a regression of the castes, since the merchant caste took over from the warrior caste. In the epilogue to this text, Evola argued that the fictitious \"The Protocols of the Elders of Zion\", regardless of whether it was authentic or not, was a cogent representation of modernity. The historian Richard Barber said, \"Evola mixes rhetoric, prejudice, scholarship, and politics into a strange version of the present and future, but in the process he brings together for the first time interest in the esoteric and in conspiracy theory which characterize much of the later Grail literature.\"\n\nIn \"The Doctrine of Awakening\", Evola argued that the Pāli Canon could be held to represent true Buddhism. His interpretation of Buddhism is that it was intended to be anti-democratic. He believed that Buddhism revealed the essence of an \"Aryan\" tradition that had become corrupted and lost in the West. He believed it could be interpreted to reveal the superiority of a warrior caste. Harry Oldmeadow described Evola's work on Buddhism as exhibiting Nietzschean influence, but Evola criticized Nietzsche's anti-ascetic prejudice. The book \"received the official approbation of the Pāli [text] society\", and was published by a reputable Orientalist publisher. Evola's interpretation of Buddhism, as put forth in his article \"Spiritual Virility in Buddhism\", is in conflict with the post-WWII scholarship of the Orientalist Giuseppe Tucci, which argues that the viewpoint that Buddhism advocates universal benevolence is legitimate. Arthur Versluis stated that Evola's writing on Buddhism was a vehicle for his own theories, but was a far from accurate rendition of the subject, and he held that much the same could be said of Evola's writing on Hermeticism. Ñāṇavīra Thera was inspired to become a bhikkhu from reading Evola's text \"The Doctrine of Awakening\" in 1945 while hospitalized in Sorrento.\n\nEvola's \"Revolt Against the Modern World\" is a text that promotes the mythology of an ancient Golden Age. In this work, Evola described the features of his idealized traditional society. Evola argued that modernity represented a serious decline from an ideal society. He argued that in the postulated Golden age, religious and temporal power were united. He wrote that society had not been founded on priestly rule, but by warriors expressing spiritual power. In mythology, he saw evidence of the West's superiority over the East. Moreover, he claimed that the traditional elite had the ability to access power and knowledge through a hierarchical version of magic which differed from the lower \"superstitious and fraudulent\" forms of magic. Evola insists on \"nonmodern forms, institutions, and knowledge\" as being necessary to produce a \"real renewal ... in those who are still capable of receiving it.\" The text was \"immediately recognized by Mircea Eliade and other intellectuals who allegedly advanced ideas associated with Tradition.\" Eliade, one of Evola's closest friends, was a fascist sympathizer associated with the Romanian fascist Iron Guard. Evola was aware of the importance of myth from his readings of Georges Sorel, one of the key intellectual influences on fascism. Hermann Hesse described \"Revolt Against the Modern World\" as \"really dangerous.\"\n\nE. C. Wolff noted that in \"Ride the Tiger\" \"Evola argued that the fight against modernity was lost. The only thing a 'real man' could just do was to ride the tiger of modernity patiently\". Evola wrote that the events of the period would have to run their course but he \"did not exclude the possibility of action in the future.\" He argued that one should be ready to intervene when the tiger \"is tired of running.\" Goodrick-Clarke notes that, \"Evola sets up the ideal of the 'active nihilist' who is prepared to act with violence against modern decadence.\" According to European Studies professor Paul Furlong, this text presents Evola's view that the potential \"elite\" should immunize itself from modernity and use \"right wing anarchism\" to rebel against it.\n\nIn the posthumously published collection of writings, \"Metaphysics of War\", Evola, in line with the conservative revolutionary Ernst Jünger, explored the viewpoint that war could be a spiritually fulfilling experience. He proposed the necessity of a transcendental orientation in a warrior.\n\nNicholas Goodrick-Clarke has written that Evola's 1945 essay \"American 'Civilization'\" described the United States as \"the final stage of European decline into the 'interior formlessness' of vacuous individualism, conformity and vulgarity under the universal aegis of money-making.\" According to Goodrick-Clarke, Evola argued that U.S. \"mechanistic and rational philosophy of progress combined with a mundane horizon of prosperity to transform the world into an enormous suburban shopping mall.\"\n\nAround 1920, Evola's interests led him into spiritual, transcendental, and \"supra-rational\" studies. He began reading various esoteric texts and gradually delved deeper into the occult, alchemy, magic, and Oriental studies, particularly Tibetan Tantric yoga. A keen mountaineer, Evola described the experience as a source of revelatory spiritual experiences. After his return from the war, Evola experimented with hallucinogens and magic.\n\nWhen he was about 23 years old, Evola considered suicide. He claimed that he avoided suicide thanks to a revelation he had while reading an early Buddhist text that dealt with shedding all forms of identity other than absolute transcendence. Evola would later publish the text \"The Doctrine of Awakening\", which he regarded as a repayment of his debt to Buddhism for saving him from suicide.\n\nEvola wrote prodigiously on Eastern mysticism, Tantra, hermeticism, the myth of the Holy Grail and Western esotericism. German Egyptologist and esoteric scholar Florian Ebeling has noted that Evola's \"The Hermetic Tradition\" is viewed as an \"extremely important work on Hermeticism\" in the eyes of esotericists. Evola gave particular focus to Cesare della Riviera's text \"Il Mondo Magico degli Heroi\", which he later republished in modern Italian. He held that Riviera's text was consonant with the goals of \"high magic\" – the reshaping of the earthly human into a transcendental 'god man'. According to Evola, the alleged \"timeless\" Traditional science was able to come to lucid expression through this text, in spite of the \"coverings\" added to it to prevent accusations from the church. Though Evola rejected Carl Jung's interpretation of alchemy, Jung described Evola's \"The Hermetic Tradition\" as a \"magisterial account of Hermetic philosophy\". In \"Hegel and the Hermetic Tradition\", the philosopher Glenn Alexander Magee favored Evola's interpretation over that of Jung's. In 1988, a journal devoted to Hermetic thought published a section of Evola's book and described it as \"Luciferian.\"\n\nEvola later confessed that he was not a Buddhist, and that his text on Buddhism was meant to balance his earlier work on the Hindu \"tantras\". Evola's interest in tantra was spurred on by correspondence with John Woodroffe. Evola was attracted to the active aspect of tantra, and its claim to provide a practical means to spiritual experience, over the more \"passive\" approaches in other forms of Eastern spirituality. In \"Tantric Buddhism in East Asia\", Richard K. Payne, Dean of the Institute of Buddhist Studies, argued that Evola manipulated Tantra in the service of right wing violence, and that the emphasis on \"power\" in \"The Yoga of Power\" gave insight into his mentality.\n\nEvola advocated that \"differentiated individuals\" following the Left-Hand Path use dark violent sexual powers against the modern world. For Evola, these \"virile heroes\" are both generous and cruel, possess the ability to rule, and commit \"Dionysian\" acts that might be seen as conventionally immoral. For Evola, the Left Hand path embraces violence as a means of transgression.\n\nAccording to A. James Gregor Evola's definition of spirituality can be found in \"Meditations on the Peaks\": \"what has been successfully actualized and translated into a sense of superiority which is experienced inside by the soul, and a noble demeanor, which is expressed in the body.\" Goodrick-Clarke wrote that Evola's \"rigorous New Age spirituality speaks directly to those who reject absolutely the leveling world of democracy, capitalism, multi-racialism and technology at the outset of the twenty-first century. Their acute sense of cultural chaos can find powerful relief in his ideal of total renewal.\" Thomas Sheehan wrote that to \"read Evola is to take a trip through a weird and fascinating jungle of ancient mythologies, pseudo-ethnology, and transcendental mysticism that is enough to make any southern California consciousness-tripper feel quite at home.\"\n\nThomas Sheehan wrote that \"Evola's first philosophical works from the 'twenties were dedicated to reshaping neo-idealism from a philosophy of Absolute Spirit and Mind into a philosophy of the \"absolute individual\" and action.\" Accordingly, Evola developed the doctrine of \"magical idealism\", which held that \"the Ego must understand that everything that seems to have a reality independent of it is nothing but an illusion, caused by its own deficiency.\" For Evola, this ever-increasing unity with the \"absolute individual\" was consistent with unconstrained liberty, and therefore unconditional power. In his 1925 work \"Essays on Magical Idealism\", Evola declared that \"God does not exist. The Ego must create him by making itself divine.\"\n\nAccording to Sheehan, Evola discovered the power of metaphysical mythology while developing his theories. This led to his advocacy of supra-rational intellectual intuition over discursive knowledge. In Evola's view, discursive knowledge separates man from Being. Sheehan stated that this position is a theme in certain interpretations of Western philosophers such as Plato, Thomas Aquinas, and Martin Heidegger that was exaggerated by Evola. Evola would later write:\n\nEvola developed a doctrine of the \"two natures\": the natural world and the primordial \"world of 'Being'\". He believed that these \"two natures\" impose form and quality on lower matter and create a hierarchical \"great chain of Being.\" He understood \"spiritual virility\" as signifying orientation towards this postulated transcendent principle. He held that the State should reflect this \"ordering from above\" and the consequent hierarchical differentiation of individuals according to their \"organic preformation\". By \"organic preformation\" he meant that which \"gathers, preserves, and refines one's talents and qualifications for determinate functions.\"\n\nEvola was introduced to esotericism by Arturo Reghini, who was an early supporter of fascism. Reghini sought to promote a \"cultured magic\" opposed to Christianity and introduced Evola to the traditionalist René Guénon. In 1927, Reghini and Evola, along with other Italian esotericists, founded the \"Gruppo di Ur\" (\"Ur Group\"). The purpose of this group was to attempt to bring the members' individual identities into such a superhuman state of power and awareness that they would be able to exert a magical influence on the world. The group employed techniques from Buddhist, Tantric, and rare Hermetic texts. They aimed to provide a \"soul\" to the burgeoning Fascist movement of the time through the revival of ancient Roman religion, and to influence the fascist regime through esotericism.\n\nArticles on occultism from the Ur Group were later published in \"Introduction to Magic\". Reghini's support of Freemasonry would however prove a bone of contention for Evola; accordingly, Evola broke with Reghini in 1928. Reghini himself broke from Evola, accusing Evola of plagiarizing his thoughts in the book \"Pagan Imperialism\". Evola, on the other hand, blamed Reghini for the premature publication of \"Pagan Imperialism\". Evola's later work owed a considerable debt to René Guénon's text \"Crisis of the Modern World\", though he diverged from Guénon on the issue of the relationship between warriors and priests.\n\nJulius Evola believed that the alleged higher qualities expected of a man of a particular race were not those expected of a woman of the same race. He held that \"just relations between the sexes\" involved women acknowledging their \"inequality\" with men. In 1925, he wrote an article titled \"La donna come cosa\" (\"Woman as Thing\"). Evola later quoted Joseph de Maistre's statement that \"Woman cannot be superior except as woman, but from the moment in which she desires to emulate man she is nothing but a monkey.\" Evola believed that women's liberation was \"the renunciation by woman of her right to be a woman\". A woman \"could traditionally participate in the sacred hierarchical order only in a mediated fashion through her relationship with a man.\" He held, as a feature of his idealized gender relations, the Hindu sati, which for him was a form of sacrifice indicating women's respect for patriarchal traditions. For the \"pure, feminine\" woman, \"man is not perceived by her as a mere husband or lover, but as her lord.\" Women would find their true identity in total subjugation to men.\n\nEvola regarded matriarchy and goddess religions as a symptom of decadence, and preferred a hyper-masculine, warrior ethos.\n\nEvola was influenced by Hans Blüher; he was a proponent of the \"Männerbund\" concept as a model for his proposed ultra-fascist \"Order\". Goodrick-Clarke noted the fundamental influence of Otto Weininger's misogynist book \"Sex and Character\" on Evola's dualism of male-female spirituality. According to Goodrich-Clarke, \"Evola's celebration of virile spirituality was rooted in Weininger's work, which was widely translated by the end of the First World War.\" Unlike Weininger, Evola believed that women needed to be conquered, not ignored. Evola denounced homosexuality as \"useless\" for his purposes. He did not neglect sadomasochism, so long as sadism and masochism \"are magnifications of an element potentially present in the deepest essence of eros.\" Then, it would be possible to \"extend, in a transcendental and perhaps ecstatic way, the possibilities of sex.\"\n\nEvola held that women \"played\" with men, threatened their masculinity, and lured them into a \"constrictive\" grasp with their sexuality. He wrote that \"It should not be expected of women that they return to what they really are ... when men themselves retain only the semblance of true virility\", and lamented that \"men instead of being in control of sex are controlled by it and wander about like drunkards\". He believed that in Tantra and in sex magic, in which he saw a strategy for aggression, he found the means to counter the \"emasculated\" West. According to Annalisa Merelli, Evola \"went so far as to justify rape\" because he saw it \"as a natural expression of male desire\". Evola also said that the \"ritual violation of virgins\", and \"whipping women\" were a means of \"consciousness raising\", so long as these practices were done to the intensity required to produce the proper \"liminal psychic climate\". He wrote that \"as a rule, nothing stirs a man more than feeling the woman utterly exhausted beneath his own hostile rapture.\"\n\nEvola translated Weininger's \"Sex and Character\" into Italian. Dissatisfied with simply translating Weininger's work, he wrote the text \"Eros and the Mysteries of Love: The Metaphysics of Sex\", where his views on sexuality were dealt with at length. Arthur Versluis described this text as Evola's \"most interesting\" work aside from \"Revolt Against the Modern World\". This book remains popular among many New Age adherents.\n\nEvola's dissent from standard biological concepts of race had roots in his aristocratic elitism, since Nazi \"völkisch\" ideology inadequately separated aristocracy from \"commoners.\" According to Furlong, Evola developed \"the law of the regression of castes\" in \"Revolt Against the Modern World\" and other writings on racism from the 1930s and World War II period. In Evola's view \"power and civilization have progressed from one to another of the four castes—sacred leaders, warrior nobility, bourgeoisie (economy, 'merchants') and slaves\". Furlong explains: \"for Evola, the core of racial superiority lay in the spiritual qualities of the higher castes, which expressed themselves in physical as well as in cultural features, but were not determined by them. The law of the regression of castes places racism at the core of Evola's philosophy, since he sees an increasing predominance of lower races as directly expressed through modern mass democracies.\"\n\nIn 1941, Evola's book \"Synthesis of the Doctrine of Race\" (Italian: \"Sintesi di Dottrina della Razza\") was published by Hoepli. It provides an overview of his ideas concerning race and eugenics, introducing the concept of \"spiritual racism\", and \"esoteric-traditionalist racism\".\n\nPrior to the end of War, Evola had frequently used the term \"Aryan\" to mean the nobility, who in his view were imbued with traditional spirituality. Wolff notes that Evola seems to have stopped writing about race in 1945, but adds that the intellectual themes of Evola's writings were otherwise unchanged. Evola continued to write about elitism and his contempt for the weak. His \"doctrine of the Aryan-Roman 'super-race was simply restated as a doctrine of the 'leaders of men' ... no longer with reference to the SS, but to the mediaeval Teutonic knights of the Knights Templar, already mentioned in Rivolta.\"\n\nEvola spoke of \"inferior non-European races\". Peter Merkl wrote that \"Evola was never prepared to discount the value of blood altogether\". Evola wrote: \"a certain balanced consciousness and dignity of race can be considered healthy\" in a time where \"the exaltation of the negro and all the rest, anticolonialist psychosis and integrationist fanaticism [are] all parallel phenomena in the decline of Europe and the West.\" While not totally against race-mixing, in 1957, Evola wrote an article attributing the perceived acceleration of American decadence to the influence of \"negroes\" and the opposition to segregation. Furlong noted that this article is \"among the most extreme in phraseology of any he wrote, and exhibits a degree of intolerance that leaves no doubt as to his deep prejudice against black people.\"\n\nFor his spiritual interpretation of the different racial psychologies, Evola found the work of German race theorist Ludwig Ferdinand Clauss invaluable. Like Evola, Clauss believed that physical race and spiritual race could diverge as a consequence of miscegenation. Evola's racism included racism of the body, soul, and spirit, giving primacy to the latter factor, writing that \"races only declined when their spirit failed.\"\n\nLike René Guénon, Evola believed that mankind is living in the Kali Yuga of the Hindu tradition—the Dark Age of unleashed, materialistic appetites. He argued that both Italian fascism and Nazism represented hope that the \"celestial\" Aryan race would be reconstituted. He drew on mythological accounts of super-races and their decline, particularly the Hyperboreans, and maintained that traces of Hyperborean influence could be felt in Indo-European man. He felt that Indo-European men had devolved from these higher mythological races. Gregor noted that several contemporary criticisms of Evola's theory were published: \"In one of Fascism's most important theoretical journals, Evola's critic pointed out that many Nordic-Aryans, not to speak of Mediterranean Aryans, fail to demonstrate any Hyperborean properties. Instead, they make obvious their materialism, their sensuality, their indifference to loyalty and sacrifice, together with their consuming greed. How do they differ from 'inferior' races, and why should anyone wish, in any way, to favor them?\"\n\nConcerning the relationship between \"spiritual racism\" and biological racism, Evola put forth the following viewpoint, which Furlong described as pseudo-scientific:\n\nEvola endorsed Otto Weininger's views on the Jews. Though Evola viewed Jews as corrosive and anti-traditional, he described Adolf Hitler's more fanatical anti-Semitism as a paranoid idée fixe that damaged the reputation of the Third Reich. Evola's conception did not emphasize the Nazi racial conception of Jews as \"representatives of a biological race\"—in Evola's view the Jews were \"the carriers of a world view ... a spirit [that] corresponded to the 'worst' and 'most decadent' features of modernity: democracy, egalitarianism and materialism.\"\n\nEvola argued that \"The Protocols of the Elders of Zion\"—whether or not a forgery—accurately reflect the conditions of modernity. He believed that the \"Protocols\" \"contain the plan for an occult war, whose objective is the utter destruction, in the non-Jewish peoples, of all tradition, class, aristocracy, and hierarchy, and of all moral, religious, and spiritual values.\" He wrote the foreword to the second Italian edition of the \"Protocols\", which was published by the Fascist Giovanni Preziosi in 1938.\n\nFollowing the murder of his friend Corneliu Zelea Codreanu, the leader of the Fascist Romanian Iron Guard, Evola expressed anticipation of a \"talmudic, Israelite tyranny.\" However, Evola believed that Jews had this \"power\" only because of European \"decadence\" in modernity. He also believed that one could be \"Aryan\", but have a \"Jewish\" soul, just as one could be \"Jewish\", but have an \"Aryan\" soul. In Evola's view Otto Weininger and Carlo Michelstaedter were Jews of \"sufficiently heroic, ascetic, and sacral\" character to fit the latter category.\n\nEvola developed a complex line of argument, closely related to the spiritual orientation of Traditionalist writers such as René Guénon and the political concerns of the European Authoritarian Right. Evola's first published political work was an anti-fascist piece in 1925. In this work, Evola called Italy's fascist movement a \"laughable revolution,\" based on empty sentiment and materialistic concerns. He applauded Mussolini's anti-bourgeois orientation and his goal of making Italian citizens into hardened warriors, but criticized Fascist populism, party politics, and elements of leftism that he saw in the fascist regime. Evola saw Mussolini's Fascist Party as possessing no cultural or spiritual foundation. He was passionate about infusing it with these elements in order to make it suitable for his ideal conception of \"Übermensch\" culture which, in Evola's view, characterized the imperial grandeur of pre-Christian Europe. He expressed anti-nationalist sentiment, stating that to become \"truly human,\" one would have to \"overcome brotherly contamination\" and \"purge oneself\" of the feeling that one is united with others \"because of blood, affections, country or human destiny.\" He also opposed the futurism that Italian fascism was aligned with, along with the \"plebeian\" nature of the movement. Accordingly, Evola launched the journal \"La Torre\" (The Tower), to voice his concerns and advocate for a more elitist fascism. Evola's ideas were poorly received by the fascist mainstream as it stood at the time of his writing.\n\nScholars disagree about why Benito Mussolini embraced racist ideology in 1938—some scholars have written that Mussolini was more motivated by political considerations than ideology when he introduced anti-semitic legislation in Italy. Other scholars have rejected the argument that the racial ideology of Italian fascism could be attributed solely to Nazi influence. A more recent interpretation is that Mussolini was frustrated by the slow pace of fascist transformation and, by 1938, had adopted increasingly radical measures including a racial ideology. Aaron Gillette has written that \"Racism would become the key driving force behind the creation of the new fascist man, the \"uomo fascista\".\"\n\nMussolini read Evola's \"Synthesis of the Doctrine of Race\" in August 1941, and met with Evola to offer him his praise. Evola later recounted that Mussolini had found in his work a uniquely Roman form of Fascist racism distinct from that found in Nazi Germany. With Mussolini's backing, Evola launched the minor journal \"Sangue e Spirito\" (Blood and Spirit). While not always in agreement with German racial theorists, Evola traveled to Germany in February 1942 and obtained support for German collaboration on \"Sangue e Spirito\" from \"key figures in the German racial hierarchy.\" Fascists appreciated the palingenetic value of Evola's \"proof\" \"that the true representatives of the state and the culture of ancient Rome were people of the Nordic race.\" Evola eventually became Italy's leading racial philosopher.\n\nEvola blended Sorelianism with Mussolini's eugenics agenda. Evola has written that \"The theory of the Aryo-Roman race and its corresponding myth could integrate the Roman idea proposed, in general, by fascism, as well as give a foundation to Mussolini's plan to use his state as a means to elevate the average Italian and to enucleate in him a new man.\"\n\nIn May, 1951, Evola was arrested and charged with promoting the revival of the Fascist Party, and of glorifying Fascism. Defending himself at trial, Evola stated that his work belonged to a long tradition of anti-democratic writers who certainly could be linked to fascism—at least fascism interpreted according to certain Evolian criteria—but who certainly could not be identified with the Fascist regime under Mussolini. Evola then declared that he was not a Fascist but a \"superfascist\". He was acquitted.\n\nFinding Italian fascism too compromising, Evola began to seek recognition in Nazi Germany. Evola spent a considerable amount of time in Germany in 1937 and 1938, and gave a series of lectures to the German–Italian Society in 1938. Evola took issue with Nazi populism and biological materialism. SS authorities initially rejected Evola's ideas as supranational and aristocratic though he was better received by members of the conservative revolutionary movement. The Nazi Ahnenerbe reported that many considered his ideas to be pure \"fantasy\" which ignored \"historical facts.\". Evola admired Heinrich Himmler, whom he knew personally, but he had reservations about Adolf Hitler because of Hitler's reliance on \"völkisch\" nationalism. Himmler's Schutzstaffel (\"SS\") kept a dossier on Evola—dossier document AR-126 described his plans for a \"Roman-Germanic Imperium\" as \"utopian\" and described him as a \"reactionary Roman,\" whose goal was an \"insurrection of the old aristocracy against the modern world.\" The document recommended that the SS \"stop his effectiveness in Germany\" and provide him with no support, particularly because of his desire to create a \"secret international order\".\n\nDespite this opposition, Evola was able to establish political connections with pan-Europeanist elements inside the Reich Main Security Office. Evola subsequently ascended to the inner circles of Nazism as the influence of pan-European advocates overtook that of Völkisch proponents, due to military contingencies. Evola wrote the article \"Reich and Imperium as Elements in the New European Order\" for the Nazi-backed journal \"European Review\". He spent World War II working for the Sicherheitsdienst. The Sicherheitsdienst bureau Amt VII, a Reich Main Security Office research library, helped Evola acquire arcane occult and Masonic texts.\n\nItalian Fascism went into decline when, in 1943, Mussolini was deposed and imprisoned. At this point, Evola fled to Germany with the help of the Sicherheitsdienst. Although not a member of the National Fascist Party, and despite his apparent problems with the Fascist regime, Evola was one of the first people to greet Mussolini when the latter was broken out of prison by Otto Skorzeny in 1943. Subsequently, Evola helped welcome Mussolini to Adolf Hitler's Wolf's Lair. Following this, Evola involved himself in Mussolini's Italian Social Republic. It was Evola's custom to walk around the city of Vienna during bombing raids in order to better \"ponder his destiny\". During one such raid, 1945, a shell fragment damaged his spinal cord and he became paralyzed from the waist down, remaining so for the rest of his life.\n\nAfter World War II, Evola continued his work in esotericism. He wrote a number of books and articles on sex magic and various other esoteric studies, including \"The Yoga of Power: Tantra, Shakti, and the Secret Way\" (1949), \"Eros and the Mysteries of Love: The Metaphysics of Sex\" (1958), and \"Meditations on the Peaks: Mountain Climbing as Metaphor for the Spiritual Quest\" (1974). He also wrote his two explicitly political books \"Men Among the Ruins: Post-War Reflections of a Radical Traditionalist\" (1953), \"Ride the Tiger: A Survival Manual for the Aristocrats of the Soul\" (1961), and his autobiography, \"The Path of Cinnabar\" (1963). He also expanded upon critiques of American civilization and materialism, as well as increasing American influence in Europe, collected in the posthumous anthology \"Civiltà Americana\".\n\nEvola's occult ontology exerted influence over post-war neo-fascism. In the post-war period, Evola's writing evoked interest among the neo-fascist right. After 1945, Evola was considered the most important Italian theoretician of the conservative revolutionary movement and the \"chief ideologue\" of Italy's post-war radical right. According to Egil Asprem and Kennet Granholm, Evola's most significant post-war political texts are \"Orientamenti\" and \"Men Among the Ruins\".\n\n\"Orientamenti\" was a text against \"national fascism\"—instead, it advocated for a European Community modeled on the principles of the Waffen-SS. The Italian Neo-fascist group Ordine Nuovo adopted \"Orientamenti\" as a guide for action in postwar Italy. The European Liberation Front, who were affiliated with Francis Parker Yockey, called Evola \"Italy's gretest living authoritarian philosopher\" in the April 1951 issue of their publication \"Frontfighter\".\n\nDuring the post-war period, Evola attempted to dissociate himself from totalitarianism, preferring the concept of the \"organic\" state, which he put forth in his text \"Men Among the Ruins\". Evola sought to develop a strategy for the implementation of a \"conservative revolution\" in post World War II Europe. He rejected nationalism, advocating instead for a European \"Imperium\", which could take various forms according to local conditions, but should be \"organic, hierarchical, anti-democratic, and anti-individual.\" Evola endorsed Francis Parker Yockey's neo-fascist manifesto \"Imperium\", but disagreed with it because he believed that Yockey had a \"superficial\" understanding of what was immediately possible. Evola believed that his conception of neo-fascist Europe could best be implemented by an elite of \"superior\" men who operated outside normal politics.\n\nGiuliano Salierni was an activist in the neo-Fascist Italian Social Movement during the early 1950s. He later recalled Evola's calls to violence. Roberto Fiore and his colleagues in the early 1980s helped the National Fronts \"Political Soldiers\" forge a militant elitist philosophy based on Evola's \"most militant tract\", \"The Aryan Doctrine of Battle and Victory\". \"The Aryan Doctrine\" called for a \"Great Holy War\" that would be fought for spiritual renewal and fought in parallel to the physical \"Little Holy War\" against perceived enemies. Wolff attributes extreme-right terrorist actions in Italy in the 1970s and 1980s to the influence of Julius Evola.\n\nThomas Sheehan has argued that Evola's work is essential reading for those seeking to understand Eurofascism, in the same way that knowledge of the writings of Karl Marx is necessary for those seeking to understand Communist actions.\n\nThe Italian Fascist leader Benito Mussolini, the Nazi Grail seeker Otto Rahn, and the Romanian fascist sympathizer and religious historian Mircea Eliade admired Julius Evola. After World War II, Evola's writings continued to influence many European far-right political, racist and neo-fascist movements. He is widely translated in French, Spanish, partly in German, and mostly in Hungarian (the largest number of his translated works [see <http://www.tradicio.org/bibliographia.pdf> pp. 130–154]). Amongst those he has influenced are the American Blackshirts Party, the \"esoteric Hitlerist\" Miguel Serrano, Savitri Devi, GRECE, the Movimento sociale italiano (MSI), Gaston Armand Amaudruz's Nouvel Ordre Européen, Pino Rauti's Ordine Nuovo, Troy Southgate, Alain de Benoist, Michael Moynihan, Giorgio Freda, the Nuclei Armati Rivoluzionari (Armed Revolutionary Nuclei), Eduard Limonov, Forza Nuova, CasaPound Italia, Tricolor Flame and the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. Giorgio Almirante referred to him as \"our Marcuse—only better.\" According to one leader of the neofascist \"black terrorist\" Ordine Nuovo, \"Our work since 1953 has been to transpose Evola's teachings into direct political action.\" The now defunct French fascist group Troisième Voie was also inspired by Evola. Jonathan Bowden, English political activist and chairman of the far right, spoke highly of Evola and his ideas and gave lectures on his philosophy.\n\nEvola has also influenced the alt-right movement, which also cites Oswald Spengler, H.L Mencken, Sam Francis, and Pat Buchanan as influences. Additionally, Evola has influenced Vladimir Putin advisor Aleksander Dugin. The Greek neo-Nazi party Golden Dawn includes his works on its suggested reading list, and the leader of Jobbik, the Hungarian nationalist party, admires Evola and wrote an introduction to his works. Umberto Eco referred to Evola as the \"most influential theoretical source of the theories of the new Italian right\", and as \"one of the most respected fascist gurus\".\n\nDonald Trump's former chief adviser Steve Bannon noted Evola's influence on the Eurasianism movement; According to Joshua Green's book \"Devil's Bargain\", Evola's \"Revolt Against the Modern World\" had initially drawn Bannon's interest to the ideas of the Traditionalist School. Alt-right leader Richard B. Spencer said that Bannon's awareness of Evola \"means a tremendous amount\". Some members of the alt-right expressed hope that Bannon might have been open to Evola's ideas, and that through Bannon, Evola's ideas could become influential. According to multiple historians cited by \"The Atlantic\", this is contradictory, as Bannon cited Evola in defense of the \"Judeo-Christian west\", while Evola hated and opposed Judaism and Jews, Christianity in general, Anglo-Saxon Protestantism specifically, and the culture of the United States. In a leaked email sent by Bannon in March 2016, he told Milo Yiannopoulos, \"I do appreciate any piece that mentions Evola.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "176138", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=176138", "title": "Kelmis", "text": "Kelmis\n\nKelmis () is a municipality located in the Belgian province of Liège, named for the historical deposits of calamine (zinc ore) nearby. , the population was 10,881; the area is and the population density is .\n\nThe municipality consists of the following sub-municipalities: Kelmis proper, Hergenrath, and Neu-Moresnet.\n\nThe territory around the Vieille Montagne zinc mine in Kelmis was a neutral condominium of the Netherlands and Prussia (later Belgium and Germany) from 1816 to 1919 as Neutral Moresnet, with the Mayor of Kelmis being nominated by two commissionners from the neighbouring countries. Although there were attempts by locals at making it evolve into a fully independent microstate, all of them were thwarted and it remained under double-sovereignty and neutrality until its eventual annexation by Belgium after .\n\nIn the nineteenth century a Low Dietsch dialect was spoken in Kelmis. Today Kelmis is bilingual: German and French and one of the nine municipalities of the German‑speaking Community of Belgium.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1099047", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1099047", "title": "Kyi, Shchek and Khoryv", "text": "Kyi, Shchek and Khoryv\n\nKyi, Shchek and Khoryv () are three legendary brothers often mentioned along with their sister Lybid (), who, according to the \"Primary Chronicle\", were the founders of the medieval city of Kiev, now the capital of Ukraine. The legend is widely recognized as a source of Kievan mythology and urban naming.\n\nArchaeological excavations have shown that there was indeed an ancient settlement starting with the 6th century. Some speculate that Kyi was a real person, a \"knyaz\" (prince) from the tribe of the Polans. According to legend, Kyi, the eldest brother, was a Polianian Prince, and the city was named after him.. As well, the legend says that the appearance of a large city on the hilly banks of the Dnieper was predicted by Andrew the Apostle.\n\nThis legend of the three brothers and their sister is one of the most popular theories among the attempts to explain the local names. \"Shchek\" and \"Khoryv\", according to this theory, represent the actual Shchekavytsia and Khorevytsia mountains in the center of Kiev, while \"Lybid\" is the actual river, a right tributary of the Dnieper and an important landscape factor in the city. Lybid means \"swan\" in Slavic. Goddess Zorya (Danica) was identified with white swan, white bird.\n\nIn addition to the respective hills and the river, there are \"Shchekavytska\" and \"Khoryva\" Streets in Kiev's ancient neighborhood of Podil.\n\nIn 1982, Kyi, Shchek, Khoryv and Lybid were depicted (standing on an ancient riverboat) in a sculpture at the river-side of Navodnytsky Park. The monument, created by Vasyl Borodai, soon became iconic for the city and has been used as Kiev's unofficial emblem. In the 2000s another statue was installed at the central square, Maidan Nezalezhnosti.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12933231", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12933231", "title": "Love Cosmetics", "text": "Love Cosmetics\n\nLove Cosmetics (1969 \"-\" 1980) was introduced by Menley & James Laboratories on March 1, 1969. By the summer of 1970 the company was marketing and promoting Fresh Lemon bath products and Soft Eyes items to beautify the eyes. Advertising was coordinated by Wells, Rich, Greene advertising agency (1967 \"-\" 1990), a company founded by Mary Wells Lawrence. Love's advertising budget surpassed $7 million. There was an emphasis on a long-term building operation, with advertisements on television and\nin women's magazines. A 4-page spread appeared in the February 1969 Harper's Bazaar. The headline theme was \"This is the way Love is in 1969.\" The opening continued with \"Love today is different than it's ever been. It's freer, more natural, more honest-more out in the open. So are the girls who fall in love these days.\" Singer Andy Williams hosted a mid-March 1969 \"Andy Williams Love Special\". Love Cosmetics is credited with introducing \"the lemon craze\".\n\nM&J was composed of Philadelphia, Pennsylvania lawyers, doctors, and marketing men. It was a subsidiary of SmithKline & French Laboratories. SmithKline & French made Thorazine, Compazine, Dexedrine, Eskatrol, and most notably, Contac. M&J was sometimes criticized for concentrating its marketing in drug stores. However it felt that such a basic strategy would enable it to best take advantage of its\ncapabilities.\n\nThe ideal customer on which marketing focused was a young woman, 20 to 25. She might be a young businesswoman, co-ed, or young married. She was likely a trend setter and a heavy cosmetics user. Love Cosmetics' first line of items\nincluded Love's Fresh Lemon Cleanser, Lovelids eyeshadow, and Eau De Love. The latter came in a 6 oz. bottle. In all there were eleven products, and with the inclusion of shades, they numbered forty-three. Loveshines was \"the fun stick to contour and color your eyes, face, all your other kissable little curves and hollows.\" Lipsticks were called Lovesticks. The remainder of the line was Love's Basic Moisture, Love's A Little Color, Love's Transparent Powder, Love's A Little Cover, Love's Liner, Love's Mascara, and Lovelids. The latter was eyeshadow with a container in the shape of a plastic eyeball. The company believed that eyeshadows for the day should be in neutral shades, specifically taupe, russet, heather, or olive green. Nighttime was more suited for deeper, yet not brighter colors, especially purple, plum, or teal. In early 1976 Love Cosmetics started marketing Purple Sage, Tumbleweed, and Prairie Dawn eyeshadow shades.\n\nIn April 1974 Love Cosmetics began to make a line of Baby Soft products meant for adults. The items were scented with an \"innocent fragrance\" most often associated with babies. There was a Baby soft talc, a body lotion, and a foam bath. A marketing slogan read \"sexy in a very special way.\" Baby Soft products were priced from $2 to $2.75. 1975 was a busy year in the cosmetics industry with the introduction of many fragrances by competing firms. Love Cosmetics' new scent was called Daisy L.\n\nPeter Godfrey, president of Menley & James, announced in May 1976 that he was seeking a smaller advertising firm to replace Wells, Rich, Green. The parting was friendly but necessary because of the growth of Wells Lawrence's firm. It had become too large for it to give Love Cosmetics' account the attention it required. Wells, Rich, Green began to represent Max Factor of Los Angeles, California in April 1977. Altman, Stoller, Weiss represented Love Cosmetics for two years before M&J switched to the Jan Zwiren Agency of Chicago, Illinois. Zwiren was formerly vice president of the consumer products division of Helene Curtis Industries. Prior to this she worked with M&J in promoting Love Cosmetics. In BC Canada, Peter Rose was \"the Man from Love!\" producing by far the largest sales per account in North America. The SFM Media Service Corporation continued to coordinate media planning and buying for the Love Cosmetics line. \n\nIn May 1980 Menley & James entered into an agreement with Chattem of Chattanooga, Tennessee, to purchase its Love Cosmetics business. Terms were not revealed.\n\n"}
{"id": "51619525", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51619525", "title": "Maurice Holleaux", "text": "Maurice Holleaux\n\nMaurice Holleaux (15 April 1861 – 21 September 1932) was a 19th–20th-century French historian, archaeologist and epigrapher, a specialist of Ancient Greece.\n\nAdmitted in the École normale supérieure in 1879, Holleaux was agrégé in history in 1881 and became a member of the French School at Athens in 1882. He then conducted epigraphic explorations in Samos and Rhodes. He devoted thereafter an important scientific activity in the latter city. In 1884 he undertook missions in Asia Minor during which he discovered with Pierre Paris the inscription of Diogenes of Oenoanda. Back in Greece, he discovered in Beotia the Ptoion sanctuary. Between 1884 and 1891 he directed the excavation of this shrine to Apollo Ptoios in Boeotia. In 1888 he discovered an inscription bearing the text of the speech Nero spoke in Corinth in 67 to restitute their freedom to the Greeks.\n\nHe was appointed in the University of Lyon in 1888. He then became a friend of Philippe Fabia. His research abandoned the archaeological area to focus more exclusively on epigraphy.\n\nLeaving Lyon after sixteen years of teaching, he directed the French School at Athens from 1904 to 1912. Succeeding Théophile Homolle, he led archaeological activities of the school and then oversaw the archaeological exploration of Delos.\n\nOn his return to France, he was a lecturer at the Faculty of Paris. In 1918 he published a memoir which then became his complementary thesis:\"Étude sur la traduction en grec du titre consulaire\". In 1923, he defended his main thesis, completed at the end of 1920: \"Rome, la Grèce et les monarchies hellénistiques au IIIe s. BC, 273-205\" during a session remained memorable where he himself was critical of his own work. The work yet deeply renewed the perspective on the attitude of Rome to the Greeks. Holleaux was then appointed professor of Hellenistic antiquity to a Chair at the Sorbonne.\n\nIn 1928 he became a member of the Académie des inscriptions et belles-lettres. In 1927, he succeeded Paul Foucart to the chair of Greek epigraphy of the College de France.\n\nMaurice Holleaux was the master of historian Louis Robert who gathered and published posthumously his articles. One of his sons was the magistrate and lawyer Georges Holleaux (1893-1973).\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50746464", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50746464", "title": "Medal of the Royal Numismatic Society", "text": "Medal of the Royal Numismatic Society\n\nThe Medal of the Royal Numismatic Society was first awarded in 1883. It is awarded by the Royal Numismatic Society and is one of the highest markers of recognition given to numismatists. The President and Council award the Medal annually to an \"individual highly distinguished for services to Numismatic Science\".\n\nIn recent years the Medallist has been invited to receive the medal in person and to give a lecture, usually at the Society's December Meeting.\n\nSir John Evans gave the dies for the original silver medal to the Society in 1883. The current medal was commissioned from Ian Rank-Broadley in 1993 and is a cast silver medal with the classical theme of Heracles and the Nemean lion.\n\nRecipients of the Medal of the Royal Numismatic Society and their lecture titles (where available) are given below.<br>\nFurther details about the individual medallists and their contributions to the field of numismatics can be found in the \"Numismatic Chronicle\".\n"}
{"id": "21631162", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21631162", "title": "Mohamed Abdi Mohamed", "text": "Mohamed Abdi Mohamed\n\nMohamed Abdi Mohamed (Gandhi) (, ) is a Somali geologist, anthropologist, historian and politician. He is the former Minister of Defense of Somalia, and the former President of Azania (Jubaland). In July 2014, Gandhi was appointed as Somalia's Ambassador to Canada.\n\nProfessor Mohamed Abdi Xaji-Mohamed, nicknamed \"Gandhi\", is from Somalia. From childhood, Mohamed was a great student and managed to memorize the Koran at an early age. He excelled in his elementary schooling as well. He was accepted to the most prestigious high school at the time, Jamal Abdelnazer High School in the Somali capital of Mogadishu, where he graduated as an honor student in the class of 1970. He was one of the top students in his high school and the entire country for that year and was awarded a full a scholarship to go to France for higher education. He arrived in France in October 1972 to attend Besançon University. There he majored in geology and graduated with a B.A. in September 1976. Then he continued on to acquire his Master of Science in Geology in 1979. He obtained his PhD in applied geology in June 1983. The title of his thesis was \"Study of Geology and Hydrogeology of the Central Somalia Basin (Somali Democratic Republic)\". After graduation, Gandhi started lecturing at the same university.\n\nHe continued to pursue another major (history and civilization of antiquity) and received his second Ph.D in 1990. Through that decade the professor continued lecturing at the University of Besançon, France.\n\nProf Gandhi also received his Certificate in Anthropology of Space, around March 1992, at the University of New Lisbon, under the Erasmus exchange. In addition to that he received a Higher Degree by Research (HDR) from Besançon University in Besançon, France. Prof Gandhi was awarded an International Baccalaureate Diploma from the French Academy.\nHe also served as a senior program advisor of UNDP Somalia in Disarmament, Demobilization and Reintegration (DDR).\nAn active participant in the Somali peace process, Gandhi was a Lead Consultant in Mapping the Somali Civil Society. He also chaired the Technical Committee at the Arta Somali Peace process that took place in Arta, Djibouti, as well as being a member of the Somali Civil Society at the Somali Peace and Reconciliation Conference that was held in Kenya.\nMohamed Cabdi Mohamed (Gandhi) is an accomplished author; he has published 12 books in addition to more than 50 scientific articles in various academic journals. He has also edited three studies.\nProfessor Mohamed Abdi Mohamed was recently elected the President of Azania States in 2011. Professor Gandhi previously served as a Defense Secretary and Minister of Air and Transportation in the Somali Transitional Federal Government. He is a Member of Parliament of the TFG.\n\nDuring his studies in France, Prof Gandhi returned every year in Somalia to teach and support as a Professor in the Departments of History and Geology at the University of Mogadishu. Since 1987\n\nProfessor was consultant to the National Museum of Somalia (since 1988) which he had set the task of identifying and classifying ancient manuscripts (especially those held by the Sheikhs and clqn leaders) to build a directory of literary ( oral or written) and objects of art.\n\nProf Gandhi is the Co-founding member of the Association Somali Peace Line, Paris, 1996.\nProf Gandhi worked as a Consultant to \"Doctors Without Borders\" from Switzerland, Spain and other international organizations between Jan 2006-Feb 2007 where they build schools and training center for nurses and he built clinic in Kulbiyoow, Lower Jubba and surrounding area where his beloved mother was born. In addition, the professor Gandhi built a mosque and education center for midwife nurse clinic in memory of his beloved mother.\nProfessor Gandhi worked as Consultant Expert to UNESCO between 1995 and 1998, where he wrote many books and articles, including:\n\nProfessor Gandhi is an Associate Member of the Institute of Science and Techniques of the Ancient World (ISTA), CNRS, ESA 6048 (since 1992), he is still a supervisor of research.\n\nProf Gandhi worked as Research Officer 1st Class, March 1999-February 2001 IRD: at the Institute of Development Research (formerly ORSTOM)\n\nGandhi was the Technical Committee Chairman for the Conference for Peace held at Arta in Djibouti (Republic of Djibouti), from March to September 2000.\nSenior Program Adviser, SCPP, UNDP, 2002.\n\nAdministrative activities: Creation of \"Somali Studies\" in France and Europe edition of collected works.\nCo-founding member of the French Association of Somali Studies (established 1986) and the European Association of Somali Studies (established 1990). To bring together researchers \"Somaliazation\" Europe, these associations have organized several seminars and cultural events. Professor Gandhi was responsible for preparing the following events:\nFirst conference of Somali Studies, Paris, IMA, 11–13 July 1988 in collaboration with Mrs. Danièle Kintz and Mr. Osman Omar Rabah;\n\nSecond Conference of Somali Studies, Besançon, 8–11 October 1990 and accompanying exhibitions (Dole and Besançon);\nForum: \"The civil war in Somalia: When and How? Why?\", Paris, IMA, 7–8 April 1992;\nForum: \"Peace and Reconciliation in Somalia\", Paris, IMA, 15–17 April 1993;\nCongress of Somali Studies on the theme \"For a Culture of Peace in Somalia\", Paris, 25–27 October 1995.\nDuring his time as a Defense minister, Professor Gandhi organized and held meeting in Washington DC that he aimed to bring together former high-ranking officers from the military, police, custodial and intelligence services for in-depth discussions on both the historical background of the Somali security forces, and on the re-establishment and the strengthening of the capacity of the security sector institutions in Somalia. He proposed 36 thousand strong army led by former Somali senior military to revive the Somali nationhood.\n\nOn February 21, 2009, Gandhi was appointed Somalia's Minister of Defense by the nation's then head of government, Prime Minister Omar Abdirashid Ali Sharmarke. He held the position until November 10, 2010.\n\nOn April 3, 2011, the establishment of a new autonomous region in southern Somalia was announced. Referred to as \"Azania\" (formerly Jubaland), the nascent polity is led by Gandhi, who is serving as its first President. According to President Gandhi, \"Azania\" was selected as the name for the new administration because of its historical importance, as \"Azania was a name given to Somalia more than 2,500 years ago and it was given by Egyptian sailors who used to get a lot of food reserves from the Somali Coast[...] Its origin is [an] Arabic word meaning the land of plenty.\"\n\nGandhi's first stated policy initiative was to remove the Al Shabaab group of militants from the territory.\n\nGandhi held position of President of Jubaland until May 15, 2013, when Ahmed Mohamed Islam was elected to the office.\n\nIn July 2014, Gandhi was appointed Somalia's new Ambassador to Canada. The first such envoy in over two decades, he will head the Somali federal government's reopened embassy in Ottawa, Ontario.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53484891", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53484891", "title": "New Lodge Six shooting", "text": "New Lodge Six shooting\n\nIn the late hours of 3 February and the early hours of 4 February 1973, six men, all of whom were Catholics, were shot and killed in the New Lodge area of north Belfast, four (one IRA member and three civilians) of them were shot dead at the junction at Edlingham Street by British Army snipers, the other two men were shot dead by the Ulster Defence Association (UDA). Irish Nationalists and Republicans believe that collusion took place between the British security forces and Loyalist paramilitaries in the shootings. The six men who were killed became known as \"The New Lodge Six\".\n\nThe Troubles broke out in August 1969 with severe rioting in Belfast and the British army was called in to restore order. Shortly after, the newly formed guerrilla movement the Provisional IRA waged a campaign against the British of shooting and bombing. In response, Loyalist paramilitary groups such as the Ulster Volunteer Force and (UDA) waged a campaign of killings against the Nationalist community in Northern Ireland and also bombed targets in the Republic of Ireland. \nThe conflict was a bloody and bitter one with all sides carrying out massacres of civilians. The incidents included McGurk's Bar bombing, which killed 15 people, was carried out by the UVF, Bloody Sunday, in which the British army shot dead 14 Catholic civilians and Bloody Friday, which killed 11 civilians was carried out by the IRA.\n\nThe New Lodge, on the edge of the city centre, with a history of active Irish republicanism and surrounded by Loyalist areas, saw much violence during The Troubles. Most of the remaining Protestant population left under intimidation in the early 1970s, to be replaced by Catholics intimidated from Loyalist areas of Belfast. As a stronghold of the Third Battalion of the Provisional IRA's Belfast Brigade, rioting and gun battles between the IRA and the British Army and loyalist paramilitaries were almost daily occurrences during the early 1970s and other periods of high political tension such as the 1981 Irish Hunger Strike, and occurred sporadically during the rest of that period. The area was vulnerable to attacks by Loyalist paramilitaries throughout The Troubles, particularly to drive-by shootings. The corner of the New Lodge Road and the Antrim Road was statistically the most dangerous spot to stand at in Northern Ireland.\n\nIn the first four days of February 1973, fourteen people died and many more were injured in numerous gun attacks across the city. On Friday 2 February, the hooded body of 28-year-old Catholic, Patrick Bradley from Andersonstown, was found in a car in Maurice Street. An 18-year-old petrol pump attendant was shot dead in his café on York Road. Earlier in the day, ten people from the Beechmount area were injured when gunmen opened fire from a passing car. Undercover British army involvement was suspected in the Beechmount shooting. In Ardoyne, in a similar attack, residents escaped injury.\n\nTension was high in Belfast on Saturday 3 February. The UDA had paraded from many parts of the city to the Laddas Drive RUC station to demand the release of two of its members who had recently been interned. This was the first time Loyalists were threatened with internment and there was many protests and rioting by Loyalists in Belfast because of it.\n\nThe first shooting in the New Lodge area occurred at around 11.00pm when members of the UDA shot dead James Sloan (19) and James McCann (18) both IRA Volunteers who were shot while they stood outside Lynch's Bar, in a drive-by shooting. The car drove down the Antrim Road and fire was directed at a Chinese restaurant injuring others.\n\nAfter the initial attack, residents gathered on the streets after hearing the shooting, they soon came under a hail of gunfire from several positions. British Army soldiers was fired a number of rounds at a crowd of people from Duncairn Gardens down Edlingham Street and from the top of Templar and Alamein Flats. For the first time in Northern Ireland the army were using their new 'Nitesights'. Four more people, Tony Campbell (19), Ambrose Hardy (26), Brendan Maguire (33) and John Loughran (35) were shot dead by British snipers.\n\nThe British Army released a statement after the shootings in which they claimed that between 23.45 and 03.00 there was a severe gun battle in the New Lodge area. In about 30 separate incidents, nearly 200 shots were fired at the security forces and fire was returned on most occasions. They said that seven of the people shot were gunmen and six of them died, eyewitness claims dispute these statements claiming none of those shot was armed at the time they were killed.\n\nThe sister of Ambrose Hardy claims he was waving a white petticoat when he was killed.\nSix years later Ambrose Hardy's brother John Hardy (43) was killed by UVF gunmen while he was having dinner with his six children.\n\n"}
{"id": "782302", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=782302", "title": "Newcomen Society", "text": "Newcomen Society\n\nThe Newcomen Society is an International learned society that promotes and celebrates the history of engineering and technology. It was founded in London in 1920 and takes its name from Thomas Newcomen, one of the inventors associated with the early development of the steam engine and who is widely considered the \"father of the Industrial Revolution\".\n\nThe motto of the Society is the Latin \"actorum memores simul affectamus agenda\", meaning \"mindful of things that have taken place, at the same time we strive after things yet to be done\". The choice of a griffin regardant for the logo was to symbolise vigilance and looking backward while going forward.\n\nThe Newcomen Society is based at the Science Museum in London. There are regional branches in England: Midlands (Birmingham), North West (Manchester), North East (Newcastle), Western (Bristol) and Southern (Portsmouth), and one in Scotland (Glasgow and Edinburgh).\n\nThe Society is concerned with all branches of engineering: civil, mechanical, electrical, electronic, structural, aeronautical, marine, chemical and manufacturing as well as biography and invention.\n\nIt publishes the International Journal for the History of Engineering and Technology (formerly the Transactions of the Newcomen Society) and Newcomen Links, a quarterly newsletter. An online archive of previous Transactions is also available to members of the Society.\n\nAn American branch was established in 1923, but the Newcomen Society of the United States was entirely separate from its UK counterpart in 2007, when the chairman and trustees announced its closure.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21921818", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21921818", "title": "Norwegian Institute of Local History", "text": "Norwegian Institute of Local History\n\nNorwegian Institute of Local History () is an agency under the Norwegian Ministry of Culture and Church Affairs. It was established in 1955. Its purposes are to \"encourage and promote local and regional history\" in Norway and to \"stimulate a high professional and pedagogical level of research in local history\". The current director is Knut Sprauten.\n\nIt runs the website Lokalhistorie.no, and publishes the periodical \"Lokalhistorisk magasin\" in cooperation with the National Federation of Local History Associations.\n"}
{"id": "8637005", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8637005", "title": "Pamela Munro", "text": "Pamela Munro\n\nPamela Munro (b. May 23, 1947) is an American linguist who specializes in Native American languages. She is distinguished research professor of linguistics at the University of California, Los Angeles.\n\nShe earned her Phd in 1974 from the University of California, San Diego, where her graduate adviser was Margaret Langdon. Her dissertation, entitled \"Topics in Mojave Syntax\", was published by Garland in 1976. She has published numerous articles and books on American Indian languages, and was instrumental in the creation of dictionaries for San Lucas Quiaviní Zapotec, Chickasaw and Wolof. She is also the compiler of a series of books on college slang, \"Slang U\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48496070", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48496070", "title": "Perla Fuscaldo", "text": "Perla Fuscaldo\n\nElba Perla Fuscaldo (born 1941) is an Argentinian Egyptologist, specialist of the ceramics of the Ancient Egypt.\nShe graduated in 1967 in history from the University of Buenos Aires and obtained her PhD in 1978 under the supervision of Argentinian egyptologist \n\nShe was professor in the University of Buenos Aires, director of the Institute of Oriental Ancient History (IHAO-UBA), director of the Program of Studies of Egiptology (PREDE-CONICET), head of the department of Egiptology (IMHICIHU-CONICET, today Unit of Investigations on the Ancient Near East) and honorary researcher at the Museum of Natural Sciences of La Plata.\n\nShe was director of the Revista del Instituto de Historia Antigua Oriental (RIHAO, Journal of the Institute of Ancient East History ) and the monographic series \"Annexes to the Magazine of Studies of Egiptology\" (Revista de Estudios de Egiptología – REE). She is honorary researcher at the Centre of Studies of History of the Ancient East (Argentinian Catholic University).\n\nShe was director of the Argentinian Archaeologic Mission in Tell the-Ghaba, Sinai Peninsula, on the Way of Horus. She participated to the Austrian archaeologic mission in Tell the-Dab'to, ancient Avaris, the capital of the Hyksos period, under the supervision of Manfred Bietak.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33775869", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33775869", "title": "Ramón Carande", "text": "Ramón Carande\n\nRamón Carande (May 4, 1887 - September 1, 1986) was a Spanish historian.\n"}
{"id": "2332845", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2332845", "title": "Sam Pollard", "text": "Sam Pollard\n\nSamuel Pollard (20 April 1864 in Camelford, Cornwall – 16 September 1915 in Weining, China), known in Chinese as Bo Geli () was a British Methodist missionary to China with the China Inland Mission who converted many of the A-Hmao (closely related to the Hmong) in Guizhou to Christianity, and who created a Miao script that is still in use today.\n\nBorn the son of a Bible Christian Church preacher, Sam Pollard initially aimed for a career in the civil service. However, a conference in London in 1885 encouraged him to instead become a missionary. He was appointed a missionary in 1886, left the United Kingdom for China in 1887, and was posted to Yunnan province in 1888. He remained in China, as a missionary, until his death from typhoid.\n\nIn 1891 he was posted to a newly opened Bible Christian mission station in Zhaotong (referred to in contemporary sources in Wade–Giles as Chaotung), where he married Emmie Hainge. He began a Christian movement with the Big Flowery Miao in 1905 that spread to Zhaotong. Pollard also invented a script for the Miao languages called the Pollard Script (also sometimes called the \"Ahmao script\"). He credited the basic idea of the script to the Cree syllabary, \"While working out the problem, we remembered the case of the syllabics used by James Evans, a Methodist missionary among the Indians of North America, and resolved to do as he had done\". He also gave credit to a non-Miao Chinese pastor, “Stephen Lee assisted me very ably in this matter, and at last we arrived at a system”.\n\nPollard never claimed any divine inspiration or vision in creating the script. Rather, he left a record of hard work, advice from others, and ideas from other scripts. At the beginning, he wrote, he “made an experiment in getting out a written language for the Miao”, even writing out some symbols in his diary. He credited the basic idea of the script to the Cree syllabary (discussed above), “While working out the problem, we remembered the case of the syllabics used by a Methodist missionary among the Indians of North America, and resolved to do as he had done”. He also gave credit to a Chinese pastor, “Stephen Lee assisted me very ably in this matter, and at last we arrived at a system”. In another document he wrote “Mr. Stephen Lee and I are attempting to reduce the Miao language to a simply system of writing. The attempt may succeed or it may end… stillborn”. He asked himself in his diary “How shall I manage to distinguish tones?” then later wrote how he had found the solution, adopting an idea from Pitman’s shorthand. In listing the phrases he used to describe the process of creating the script, there is clear indication of work, not revelation: “we looked about”, “working out the problem”, “resolved to attempt”, “assisted”, “at last we arrived at a system”, “adapting the system”, “we found”, “solved our problem”. In all of this, we see no hint of specific revelation or any vision, only intellectual labor.\n\nHe used it to translate the New Testament. The script was unique in the fact that it used the initial consonant of a syllable, with the vowel placed above or below it, in order to indicate which tone the vowel was.\n\nPollard received pressure from some British sources that if the Roman script was not suitable, he should consider using the Burmese alphabet. He did not accept this suggestions, but Pollard did leave the door open for switching over to Roman letters, writing in 1906, \"It is quite possible later on to turn our system into Romanised, where there is a successful Romanised system in use which will solve the tone difficulty\". A large part of Pollard’s motivation for creating his script was to have a way to adequately mark the sounds of the language, especially the tones. It has remained in use for 90 years, despite efforts to supersede it.\n\nDuring his mission he travelled extensively, founding churches, training other missionaries, performing the role of language examiner, and arguing the causes of Miao Christians.\n\nAfter Pollard's death in 1915, he was buried in the mountains near the Shimenkan mission station, contemporary Weining Yi, Hui, and Miao Autonomous County. The mission prospered for another 35 years until 1950, when the CCP ordered all English missionaries to cease proselytizing and leave the country. His grave and the county were closed to foreigners until 1995, when Xinhua announced that work had been taken to restore Pollard's tomb which they now declared to be a national monument.\n\nThe main building at the Hopkins-Nanjing Center in Nanjing, China is known as the Samuel Pollard Building. It houses the Center's library, classrooms and conference space, and administration offices.\n\nThe building was dedicated in 2007 as part of the Center's twentieth anniversary celebrations, which included keynotes by former Secretary of State Henry Kissinger and former Chinese Foreign Minister Qian Qichen.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15760731", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15760731", "title": "San Adrian (tunnel)", "text": "San Adrian (tunnel)\n\nThe San Adrian tunnel or Lizarrate represents the most outstanding milestone in the historic inland Basque route of the Way of St. James. It consists of a natural cave carved by water erosion in the rock (called \"Lizarrate\", arguably stemming from \"leize arrate\", 'the stone gate of the cave') with an opening on either side north and south; it also holds an hermitage inside. The tunnel provides a natural passage dividing the provinces of Gipuzkoa and Álava/Araba (the actual borderline locating at the \"Alto de la Horca\"). \n\nThe Spanish-Basque linguistic boundary of the twentieth century was established in this area, the next village south, Zalduondo, having been predominantly Spanish speaking during that period. Nowadays many hikers cross the tunnel in order to gain access to the nearby peaks, forests and grazing fields, namely Aratz, Aizkorri and Urbia.\n\nAs so many times in Basque place- and person-names, this name of worship (San Adrian) has gone through a mutation arguably brought about by scribes and people ignorant of Basque. The pass itself is attested as \"Leizarrate\" at the beginning of the 17th century, while nowadays this naming (in the modern form \"Lizarrate\") is usually limited to the rock in Spanish, with Basque still retaining the name \"Lizarrate\" also with its original meaning – i.e. to refer to the tunnel. Originally the hermitage may have been dedicated to the \"Sancta Trinitate\" or Holy Trinity. Yet the word, like many Romance and Latin words turns out messy to pronounce in Basque, and it underwent a reduction (along the phonetic rules exhaustively described by K. Mitxelena) that ultimately resulted in \"Sandrati\" or \"Sandratei\", as locals call it. Other phonetic outputs as attested in place-names around the area include \"Sandrati\", \"Santa Tria\" and variations, especially in the lands of Álava/Araba extending south of the mountain range that San Adrian provides the pass for: \"Santa Tria\" (village Audikana), \"San Tetria\" (village Contrasta 1556, leftover place-name of a former hermitage otherwise called in Romance \"San Adrian\").\n\nCuriously enough, Saint Adrian does not hold a representative position among Basque religious icons, as opposed to the ubiquitous San Martin, San Miguel or San Juan/Donibane, but Saint Adrian was actually much revered in the ways of St James. To sum up, the name San Adrian results from a phonetic interpretation by Romance-speaking people of the Basque name for \"Sancta Trinitate\". In fact, the existing \"San Adrian\" place-names are not far from the San Adrian tunnel, where locals still gather in a celebration on the Trinity Day or following Sunday on a yearly basis.\n\nThe occurrence and relevance of the tunnel is attested since the 16th century, more so since the 13th, when historic circumstances rendered it a preferred route for pilgrimage and trade. The status increasingly gained at that time by the San Adrian pass and the way coming south from Gascony down into Gipuzkoa was to have an important impact on the social, economic and constructing development of the population nuclei located on it and around. Yet the heyday of this branch of the Way of St. James was to go on the wane thereafter by an ebb in popularity, the main trade and pilgrimage stream shifting to the more convenient French Way (via Orreaga).\n\nThe mountain pass was used for ages by shepherds, as evidenced by prehistoric traces of seasonal cattle migration, dolmens and burial mounds (usually small) in the area. Cattle, especially sheep, keep on grazing up to these days on the steep pastures all around the area of the cave. Place-names associated to alien cultures, such as neighbouring town \"Zegama\" or \"Arakama\" (commonplace family name in this region), claimed by some scholars to stem from Indo-European, suggest that European peoples may have used this pass.\n\nIn step with the popular name, the \"Roman way\" (also called by locals \"estratea\" ), some point to the construction of the original roadway by the Romans, with continuous upkeep and renovation in the Middle Ages. At any rate, this stretch is not located on the important axis Bordeaux-Astorga cutting its way east to west through the Alava plains (merging point with the Tunnel Route in Salvatierra/Agurain). A Roman inscription has been found in Zegama (only two sites discovered so far in Gipuzkoa, the other one locating in the ancient Oiasso). A reference of the hermitage and pass of San Adrian in the blurred early ages is provided in \"Noticias Históricas\" (by J.A. Llorente), where the spot is identified (reasonably so, see Name) as the \"Sanctam Trianam\" landmark cited as establishing the southern boundaries of the bishopric of Bayonne. Early Medieval Navarrese and Castilian coins and copper buckles have been gathered in the tunnel, confirming that it was frequented in advance of the 13th century. The coastal route was dangerous on account of Viking attacks and raids, while the southern roads, namely the French Way crossing Pamplona/Iruñea, Logroño and on to Burgos was subject to Muslim forays and attacks, which rendered the Alavan lands (and therefore the San Adrian tunnel route) safer and more secure, as \"they have always stayed in possession of its inhabitants\".\n\nAfter snatching the territories of Alava and Gipuzkoa from Navarre, Alfonso X encouraged the use of this stretch that connected by land Castile to Gascony through the strip extending from San Sebastian to Irun. With a view to strengthening both trade and military grip in the region, the king founded in 1256 the towns of Salvatierra (Agurain), Segura and Villafranca (Ordizia) in various spots of the way, so becoming popular with pilgrims, that could find there shelter and safety.\n\nDespite pilgrimage shift to the flatter, safer and more convenient French Way, the San Adrian tunnel road kept its profile and was much in use as a European route in the 15th, 16th and 17th century; it is worth remembering that the former was in Navarrese territory (definite Castilian conquest of Navarre in 1521), so Castilian kings continued to foster the tunnel route. At this period, evidence and descriptions about the route given by pilgrims and other users coming from Europe grow more frequent.\n\nThe San Adrian mount and pass are \"rugged and difficult for horses\", comments the cartographer Jan Janssonius in his \"Novus Atlas\". \"The passengers usually carve their names on the thick stones or the rocks, so there are recorded many names with the date of the year they crossed the roughness of these mountains\", he adds. In approx. 1567, Jorge Braun conjures up the inside of the tunnel: the nice inn and the good suppers offered to the pilgrims, especially to those who brought money along, and the fodder supplied to horses, no matter if the travellers were devoid of money. In 1572, J.B. Venturino travelled in the retinue of the patriarch of Alexandria, who crossed the tunnel northwards. The cavern \"is dark and frightening\", observes, but there he also mentions the hermitage and the house of the governor, responsible for watching the pass, as havens of preaching and safety guarantee for travellers. According to tradition, king Enrique IV of Castile (ruling 1454–1474) and later sister and queen Isabel I of Castile crossed the tunnel. Legend has it, on his route from Germany to Spain emperor Charles V first dismounted from the horse at this cave.\n\nSince the Middle Ages the tunnel has been a point where tolls are paid on account of its border position. Yet usually at night, when the gate was shut, smugglers skip the tunnel by mounting up the rock North of the tunnel through a very narrow path called \"Ochoa Arrate\". At the time, highwaymen frequenting the area are dreaded by pilgrims and travellers alike, who were not acquainted with the wild surroundings where local bandits could easily stalk and find a hideout. The care provided inside the tunnel is welcome. Many remember in their travel memoirs the cosy atmosphere found at the inn, the pilgrims singing and the \"fat woman\" serving them. Above the North entrance of the tunnel, the fortress watches and protects the pass, a building that may hold 100 soldiers, as reported by a traveller in the 17th century. Much appreciated water sprung out of the stone wall in the tunnel, as told by a Franciscan in 1633.\n\nMeanwhile, other routes grow gradually more important at the expense of the stretch corresponding to the San Adrian tunnel. \"The San Adrian pass is good only for people on horse or on foot, since the carriage way exiting Vitoria goes through Salinas, Mondragon, Oñate and Villareal [from Gipuzkoa]\", explains the arguably French Basque traveller J.C. Santoyo in 1612. However, this stretch continues to be widely used up to the late 18th century, when the new King's Highway from Madrid to France is built in 1765 and traffic shifts, so spurring the definite decay of the San Adrian tunnel way.\n\nThe cave rises at 1,005 m high and it stands in the lowest point between the towering massifs of \"Aizkorri\" and \"Aratz\" mounts (1,528 m and 1,442 m respectively). Vast beech forests covered with bucolic brown in autumn abound in the area north and south of the cave, with limestone rocks cropping up more frequently as we gain altitude and approach the cave from the north. \n\nThe most usual access points for hikers are:\n\n\nPilgrims coming south from Zegama take the pilgrimage way, which follows a paved road first (Zegama-Altsasu, GI-2637) and splits away through a concrete track that ascends on the right (signs all the way, see Graphic description of the Segura-Salvatierra/Agurain stretch). On nearing the San Adrian tunnel, the hut shaped \"Sancti Spiritus\" hermitage stands right on the left of the way. It is often claimed that it may have belonged to the Templar Knights, while this association remains contentious.\n\n"}
{"id": "21620577", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21620577", "title": "Science and technology of the Han dynasty", "text": "Science and technology of the Han dynasty\n\nThe Han dynasty (206 BCE – 220 CE) of ancient China, divided between the eras of Western Han (206 BCE – 9 CE, when the capital was at Chang'an), Xin dynasty of Wang Mang (r. AD 9–23), and Eastern Han (25–220 CE, when the capital was at Luoyang, and after 196 CE at Xuchang), witnessed some of the most significant advancements in premodern Chinese science and technology.\n\nThere were great innovations in metallurgy. In addition to Zhou-dynasty China's (c. 1050 – 256 BCE) previous inventions of the blast furnace and cupola furnace to make pig iron and cast iron, respectively, the Han period saw the development of steel and wrought iron by use of the finery forge and puddling process. With the drilling of deep boreholes into the earth, the Chinese used not only derricks to lift brine up to the surface to be boiled into salt, but also set up bamboo-crafted pipeline transport systems which brought natural gas as fuel to the furnaces. Smelting techniques were enhanced with inventions such as the waterwheel-powered bellows; the resulting widespread distribution of iron tools facilitated the growth of agriculture. For tilling the soil and planting straight rows of crops, the improved heavy-moldboard plough with three iron plowshares and sturdy multiple-tube iron seed drill were invented in the Han, which greatly enhanced production yields and thus sustained population growth. The method of supplying irrigation ditches with water was improved with the invention of the mechanical chain pump powered by the rotation of a waterwheel or draft animals, which could transport irrigation water up elevated terrains. The waterwheel was also used for operating trip hammers in pounding grain and in rotating the metal rings of the mechanical-driven astronomical armillary sphere representing the celestial sphere around the Earth.\n\nThe quality of life was improved with many Han inventions. The Han Chinese had hempen-bound bamboo scrolls to write on, yet by the 2nd century CE had invented the papermaking process which created a writing medium that was both cheap and easy to produce. The invention of the wheelbarrow aided in the hauling of heavy loads. The maritime \"junk\" ship and stern-mounted steering rudder enabled the Chinese to venture out of calmer waters of interior lakes and rivers and into the open sea. The invention of the grid reference for maps and raised-relief map allowed the Chinese to better navigate their terrain. In medicine, they used new herbal remedies to cure illnesses, calisthenics to keep physically fit, and regulated diets to avoid diseases. Authorities in the capital were warned ahead of time of the direction of sudden earthquakes with the invention of the seismometer that was tripped by a vibration-sensitive pendulum device. To mark the passing of the seasons and special occasions, the Han Chinese used two variations of the lunisolar calendar, which were established due to efforts in astronomy and mathematics. Han-era Chinese advancements in mathematics include the discovery of square roots, cube roots, the Pythagorean theorem, Gaussian elimination, the Horner scheme, improved calculations of \"pi\", and negative numbers. Hundreds of new roads and canals were built to facilitate transport, commerce, tax collection, communication, and movement of military troops. The Han-era Chinese also employed several types of bridges to cross waterways and deep gorges, such as beam bridges, arch bridges, simple suspension bridges, and pontoon bridges. Han ruins of defensive city walls made of brick or rammed earth still stand today.\n\nJin Guantao, a professor of the Institute of Chinese Studies at the Chinese University of Hong Kong, Fan Hongye, a research fellow with the Chinese Academy of Sciences' Institute of Science Policy and Managerial Science, and Liu Qingfeng, a professor of the Institute of Chinese Culture at the Chinese University of Hong Kong, assert that the latter part of the Han dynasty was a unique period in the history of premodern Chinese science and technology. They compare it to the incredible pace of scientific and technological growth during the Song dynasty (960–1279). However, they also argue that without the influence of proto-scientific precepts in the ancient philosophy of Mohism, Chinese science continued to lack a definitive structure:\n\nFrom the middle and late Eastern Han to the early Wei and Jin dynasties, the net growth of ancient Chinese science and technology experienced a peak (second only to that of the Northern Song dynasty) ...Han studies of the Confucian classics, which for a long time had hindered the socialization of science, were declining. If Mohism, rich in scientific thought, had rapidly grown and strengthened, the situation might have been very favorable to the development of a scientific structure. However, this did not happen because the seeds of the primitive structure of science were never formed. During the late Eastern Han, disastrous upheavals again occurred in the process of social transformation, leading to the greatest social disorder in Chinese history. One can imagine the effect of this calamity on science.\n\nJoseph Needham (1900–1995), a late Professor from the University of Cambridge and author of the groundbreaking \"Science and Civilisation in China\" series, stated that the \"Han time (especially the Later Han) was one of the relatively important periods as regards the history of science in China.\" He noted the advancements during Han of astronomy and calendrical sciences, the \"beginnings of systematic botany and zoology\", as well as the philosophical skepticism and rationalist thought embodied in Han works such as the \"Lunheng\" by the philosopher Wang Chong (27–100 CE).\n\nThe most common writing mediums found in archaeological digs from ancient sites predating the Han period are shells and bones as well as bronzewares. In the beginning of the Han period, the chief writing mediums were bamboo (Chinese: 竹簡) and clay tablets, silk cloth, and rolled scrolls made of strips of bamboo sewn together with hempen string passed through drilled holes (册) and secured with clay stamps. The written characters on these narrow flat strips of bamboo were arranged into vertical columns.\n\nWhile maps drawn in ink on flat silk cloths have been found in the tomb of the Marquess of Dai (interred in 168 BCE at Mawangdui, Hunan province), the earliest known paper map found in China, dated 179–41 BCE and located at Fangmatan (near Tianshui, Gansu province), is incidentally the oldest known piece of paper. Yet Chinese hempen paper of the Western Han and early Eastern Han eras was of a coarse quality and used primarily as wrapping paper. The papermaking process was not formally introduced until the Eastern Han court eunuch Cai Lun (50–121 CE) created a process in 105 where mulberry tree bark, hemp, old linens, and fish nets were boiled together to make a pulp that was pounded, stirred in water, and then dunked with a wooden sieve containing a reed mat that was shaken, dried, and bleached into sheets of paper. The oldest known piece of paper with writing on it comes from the ruins of a Chinese watchtower at Tsakhortei, Alxa League, Inner Mongolia, dated precisely to 110 CE when the Han garrison abandoned the area following a nomadic Xiongnu attack. By the 3rd century, paper became one of China's chief writing mediums.\n\nThe Han ceramics industry was upheld by private businesses as well as local government agencies. Ceramics were used in domestic wares and utensils as well as construction materials for roof tiles and bricks.\n\nHan dynasty grey pottery—its color derived from the clay that was used—was superior to earlier Chinese grey pottery due to the Han people's use of larger kiln chambers, longer firing tunnels, and improved chimney designs. Kilns of the Han dynasty making grey pottery were able to reach firing temperatures above . However, hard southern Chinese pottery made from a dense adhesive clay native only in the south (i.e. Guangdong, Guangxi, Hunan, Jiangxi, Fujian, Zhejiang, and southern Jiangsu) was fired at even higher temperatures than grey pottery during the Han. Glazed pottery of the Shang (c. 1600 – c. 1050 BCE) and Zhou (c. 1050 – 256 BC) dynasties were fired at high temperatures, but by the mid Western Han (206 BCE – 9 AD), a brown-glazed ceramic was made which was fired at the low temperature of , followed by a green-glazed ceramic which became popular in the Eastern Han (25–220 CE).\n\nWang Zhongshu states that the light-green stoneware known as celadon was thought to exist only since the Three Kingdoms period (220–265 CE) onwards, but argues that ceramic shards found at Eastern Han (25–220 CE) sites of Zhejiang province can be classified as celadon. However, Richard Dewar argues that true celadon was not created in China until the early Song dynasty (960–1279) when Chinese kilns were able to reach a minimum furnace temperature of , with a preferred range of for celadon.\n\nA blast furnace converts raw iron ore into pig iron, which can be remelted in a cupola furnace to produce cast iron. The earliest specimens of cast iron found in China date to the 5th century BCE during the late Spring and Autumn period, yet the oldest discovered blast furnaces date to the 3rd century BCE and the majority date to the period after Emperor Wu of Han (r. 141–87 BCE) established a government monopoly over the iron industry in 117 BCE (most of the discovered iron works sites built before this date were merely foundries which recast iron that had been smelted elsewhere). Iron ore smelted in blast furnaces during the Han was rarely if ever cast directly into permanent molds; instead, the pig iron scraps were remelted in the cupola furnace to make cast iron. Cupola furnaces utilized a cold blast traveling through tuyere pipes from the bottom and over the top where the charge of charcoal and pig iron was introduced. The air traveling through the tuyere pipes thus became a hot blast once it reached the bottom of the furnace.\n\nAlthough Chinese civilization lacked the bloomery, the Han Chinese were able to make wrought iron when they injected too much oxygen into the cupola furnace, causing decarburization. The Han-era Chinese were also able to convert cast iron and pig iron into wrought iron and steel by using the finery forge and puddling process, the earliest specimens of such dating to the 2nd century BCE and found at Tieshengguo near Mount Song of Henan province. The semisubterranean walls of these furnaces were lined with refractory bricks and had bottoms made of refractory clay. Besides charcoal made of wood, Wang Zhongshu states that another furnace fuel used during the Han were \"coal cakes\", a mixture of coal powder, clay, and quartz.\n\nDonald B. Wagner writes that most domestic iron tools and implements produced during the Han were made of cheaper and more brittle cast iron, whereas the military preferred to use wrought iron and steel weaponry due to their more durable qualities. During the Han dynasty, the typical bronze sword found in the Warring States period was gradually replaced with an iron sword measuring roughly in length. The ancient dagger-axe (\"ge\") made of bronze was still used by Han soldiers, although it was gradually phased out by iron spears and iron \"ji\" halberds. Even arrowheads, which were traditionally made of bronze, gradually only had a bronze tip and iron shaft, until the end of the Han when the entire arrowhead was made solely of iron. Farmers, carpenters, bamboo craftsmen, stonemasons, and rammed earth builders had at their disposal iron tools such as the plowshare, pickaxe, spade, shovel, hoe, sickle, axe, adze, hammer, chisel, knife, saw, scratch awl, and nails. Common iron commodities found in Han dynasty homes included tripods, stoves, cooking pots, belt buckles, tweezers, fire tongs, scissors, kitchen knives, fish hooks, and needles. Mirrors and oil lamps were often made of either bronze or iron. Coin money minted during the Han was made of either copper or copper and tin smelted together to make the bronze alloy.\n\nModern archaeologists have unearthed Han iron farming tools throughout China, from Inner Mongolia in the north to Yunnan in the south. The spade, shovel, pick, and plow were used for tillage, the hoe for weeding, the rake for loosening the soil, and the sickle for harvesting crops. Depending on their size, Han plows were driven by either one ox or two oxen. Oxen were also used to pull the three-legged iron seed drill (invented in Han China by the 2nd century BCE), which enabled farmers to plant seeds in precise rows instead of casting them out by hand. While artwork of the Wei (220–265 CE) and Jin (265–420) periods show use of the harrow for breaking up chunks of soil after plowing, it perhaps first appeared in China during the Eastern Han (25–220 CE). Irrigation works for agriculture included the use of water wells, artificial ponds and embankments, dams, canals, and sluice gates.\n\nDuring Emperor Wu's (r. 141–87 BCE) reign, the Grain Intendant Zhao Guo (趙過) invented the alternating fields system (\"daitianfa\" 代田法). For every \"mou\" of land—i.e. a thin but elongated strip of land measuring wide and long, or an area of roughly  — three low-lying furrows (\"quan\" 甽) that were each wide were sowed in straight lines with crop seed. While weeding in the summer, the loose soil of the ridges (\"long\" 壟) on either side of the furrows would gradually fall into the furrows, covering the sprouting crops and protecting them from wind and drought. Since the position of the furrows and ridges were reversed by the next year, this process was called the alternating fields system.\nThis system allowed crops to grow in straight lines from sowing to harvest, conserved moisture in the soil, and provided a stable annual yield for harvested crops. Zhao Guo first experimented with this system right outside the capital Chang'an, and once it proved successful, he sent out instructions for it to every commandery administrator, who were then responsible for disseminating these to the heads of every county, district, and hamlet in their commanderies. Sadao Nishijima speculates that the Imperial Counselor Sang Hongyang (d. 80 BCE) perhaps had a role in promoting this new system.\n\nRich families who owned oxen and large heavy moldboard iron plows greatly benefited from this new system. However, poorer farmers who did not own oxen resorted to using teams of men to move a single plow, which was exhausting work. The author Cui Shi (催寔) (d. 170 CE) wrote in his \"Simin yueling\" (四民月令) that by the Eastern Han Era (25–220 CE) an improved plow was invented which needed only one man to control it, two oxen to pull it, had three plowshares, a seed box for the drills, a tool which turned down the soil, and could sow roughly of land in a single day.\n\nDuring the reign of Emperor Cheng of Han (r. 33–7 BCE), Fan Shengzhi wrote a manual (i.e. the \"Fan Shengzhi shu\" 氾勝之書) which described the pit field system (\"aotian\" 凹田). In this system, every \"mou\" of farmland was divided into 3,840 grids which each had a small pit that was dug deep and wide and had good quality manure mixed into the soil. Twenty seeds were sowed into each pit, which allegedly produced 0.6 L (20 oz) of harvested grain per pit, or roughly 2,000 L (67,630 oz) per \"mou\". This system did not require oxen-driven plows or the most fertile land, since it could be employed even on sloping terrains where supplying water was difficult for other methods of farming. Although this farming method was favored by the poor, it did require intensive labor, thus only large families could maintain such a system.\n\nHan farmers in the Yangzi River region of southern China often maintained paddy fields for growing rice. Every year, they would burn the weeds in the paddy field, drench it in water, sow rice by hand, and around harvest time cut the surviving weeds and drown them a second time. In this system, the field lays fallow for much of the year and thus did not remain very fertile. However, Han rice farmers to the north around the Huai River practiced the more advanced system of transplantation. In this system, individual plants were given intensive care (perhaps in the same location as the paddy field), their offshoots separated so that more water could be conserved, and the field could be heavily fertilized since winter crops were grown while the rice seedlings were situated nearby in a plant nursery.\n\nEvidence of Han-era mechanical engineering comes largely from the choice observational writings of sometimes disinterested Confucian scholars. Professional artisan-engineers (\"jiang\" 匠) did not leave behind detailed records of their work. Han scholars, who often had little or no expertise in mechanical engineering, sometimes provided insufficient information on the various technologies they described.\n\nNevertheless, some Han literary sources provide crucial information. As written by Yang Xiong in 15 BCE, the belt drive was first used for a quilling device which wound silk fibers onto the bobbins of weaver shuttles. The invention of the belt drive was a crucial first step in the development of later technologies during the Song dynasty, such as the chain drive and spinning wheel.\n\nThe inventions of the artisan-engineer Ding Huan (丁緩) are mentioned in the \"Miscellaneous Notes on the Western Capital\". The official and poet Sima Xiangru (179–117 BCE) once hinted in his writings that the Chinese used a censer in the form of a gimbal, a pivot support made of concentric rings which allow the central gimbal to rotate on an axis while remaining vertically positioned. However, the first explicit mention of the gimbal used as an incense burner occurred around 180 CE when the artisan Ding Huan created his 'Perfume Burner for use among Cushions' which allowed burning incense placed within the central gimbal to remain constantly level even when moved. Ding had other inventions as well. For the purpose of indoor air conditioning, he set up a large manually operated rotary fan which had rotating wheels that were in diameter. He also invented a lamp which he called the 'nine-storied hill-censer', since it was shaped as a hillside. When the cylindrical lamp was lit, the convection of rising hot air currents caused vanes placed on the top to spin, which in turn rotated painted paper figures of birds and other animals around the lamp.\nWhen Emperor Gaozu of Han (r. 202 – 195 BCE) came upon the treasury of Qin Shi Huang (r. 221–210) at Xianyang following the downfall of the Qin dynasty (221–206), he found an entire miniature musical orchestra of puppets tall who played mouth organs if one pulled on ropes and blew into tubes to control them. Zhang Heng wrote in the 2nd century CE that people could be entertained by theatrical plays of artificial fish and dragons. Later, the inventor Ma Jun (fl. 220–265) invented a theater of moving mechanical puppets powered by the rotation of a hidden waterwheel.\n\nFrom literary sources it is known that the collapsible umbrella was invented during Wang Mang's reign, although the simple parasol existed beforehand. This employed sliding levers and bendable joints that could be protracted and retracted.\n\nModern archaeology has led to the discovery of Han artwork portraying inventions which were otherwise absent in Han literary sources. This includes the crank handle. Han pottery tomb models of farmyards and gristmills possess the first known depictions of crank handles, which were used to operate the fans of winnowing machines. The machine was used to separate chaff from grain, but the Chinese of later dynasties also employed the crank handle for silk-reeling, hemp-spinning, flour-sifting, and drawing water from a well using the windlass. To measure distance traveled, the Han-era Chinese also created the odometer cart. This invention is depicted in Han artwork by the 2nd century CE, yet detailed written descriptions were not offered until the 3rd century. The wheels of this device rotated a set of gears which in turn forced mechanical figures to bang gongs and drums that alerted the travelers of the distance traveled (measured in \"li\"). From existing specimens found at archaeological sites, it is known that Han-era craftsmen made use of the sliding metal caliper to make minute measurements. Although Han-era calipers bear incised inscriptions of the exact day of the year they were manufactured, they are not mentioned in any Han literary sources.\n\nBy the Han dynasty, the Chinese developed various uses for the waterwheel. An improvement of the simple lever-and-fulcrum tilt hammer device operated by one's foot, the hydraulic-powered trip hammer used for pounding, , and polishing grain was first mentioned in the Han dictionary \"Jijiupian\" of 40 BCE. It was also mentioned in the \"Regional Speech\" (\"Fangyan\") dictionary written by Yang Xiong (53 BCE – 18 CE) in 15 BCE, the philosophical \"Xinlun\" 新論 written by Huan Tan (43 BCE – 28 CE) in 20 CE, the poetry of Ma Rong (79–166 CE), and the writings of Kong Rong (153–208 CE).\n\nIn his \"Balanced Discourse\" (\"Lunheng\"), the philosopher Wang Chong (27–100 CE) was the first in China to describe the square-pallet chain pump used to lift water (and other substances). Although some models were operated manually by foot pedals, some chain pumps were powered by a horizontal waterwheel which rotated large toothed gears and a horizontal axis beam. Their primary use was for lifting water into irrigation ditches, but chain pumps were also used in public works programs, such as when Zhang Rang (d. 189) had an engineer build several of them to lift water into pipes that provided the capital Luoyang and its palaces with clean water.\n\nWhile acting as administrator of Nanyang in 31 CE, Du Shi (d. 38) invented a water-powered reciprocator which worked the bellows of the blast furnace and cupola furnace in smelting iron; before this invention, intensive manual labor was required to work the bellows.\n\nAlthough the astronomical armillary sphere (representing the celestial sphere) had existed in China since the 1st century BCE, the mathematician and court astronomer Zhang Heng (78–139 CE) provided it with motive power by using the constant pressure head of an inflow water clock to rotate a waterwheel that acted on a set of gears. Zhang Heng was also the first to address the problem of the falling pressure head in the inflow water clock (which gradually slowed the timekeeping) by setting up an additional tank between the reservoir and inflow vessel.\n\nThe Han court was responsible for the major efforts of disaster relief when natural disasters such as earthquakes devastated the lives of commoners. To better prepare for calamities, Zhang Heng invented a seismometer in 132 CE, which provided instant alert to authorities in the capital Luoyang that an earthquake had occurred in a location indicated by a specific cardinal or ordinal direction. Although no tremors could be felt in the capital when Zhang told the court that an earthquake had just occurred in the northwest, a message came soon afterwards that an earthquake had indeed struck northwest of Luoyang (in what is now modern Gansu). Zhang called his device the 'instrument for measuring the seasonal winds and the movements of the Earth' (Houfeng didong yi 候风地动仪), so-named because he and others thought that earthquakes were most likely caused by the enormous compression of trapped air.\nAs described in the \"Book of the Later Han\", the frame of the seismometer was a domed bronze vessel in the shape of a wine jar, although it was in diameter and decorated with scenes of mountains and animals. The trigger mechanism was an inverted pendulum (which the \"Book of the Later Han\" calls the \"central column\") that, if disturbed by the ground tremors of earthquakes located near or far away, would swing and strike one of eight mobile arms (representing the eight directions), each with a crank and catch mechanism. The crank and a right angle lever would raise one of eight metal dragon heads located on the exterior, dislodging a metal ball from its mouth that dropped into the mouth of one of eight metal toads below arranged like the points on a compass rose, thus indicating the direction of the earthquake. The \"Book of the Later Han\" states that when the ball fell into any one of eight toad mouths, it produced a loud noise which gained the attention of those observing the device. While Wang Zhenduo (王振铎) accepted the idea that Zhang's seismometer had cranks and levers which were disturbed by the inverted pendulum, his contemporary Akitsune Imamura (1870–1948) argued that the inverted pendulum could have had a pin at the top which, upon moving by force of the ground vibrations, would enter one of eight slots and expel the ball by pushing a slider. Since the \"Book of the Later Han\" states that the other seven dragon heads would not subsequently release the balls lodged up into their jaws after the first one had dropped, Imamura asserted that the pin of the pendulum would have been locked into the slot it had entered and thus immobilized the instrument until it was reset.\n\nOne of the earliest surviving mathematical treatises of ancient China is the \"Book on Numbers and Computation\" (\"Suan shu shu\"), part of the Zhangjiashan Han bamboo texts dated 202 to 186 BCE and found in Jiangling County, Hubei. Another mathematical text compiled during the Han was \"The Arithmetical Classic of the Gnomon and the Circular Paths of Heaven\" (\"Zhoubi Suanjing\"), dated no earlier than the 1st century BCE (from perhaps multiple authors) and contained materials similar to those described by Yang Xiong in 15 BCE, yet the \"zhoubi\" school of mathematics was not explicitly mentioned until Cai Yong's (132–192 CE) commentary of 180. A preface was added to the text by Zhao Shuang 趙爽 in the 3rd century. There was also the \"Nine Chapters on the Mathematical Art\" (\"Jiuzhang Suanshu\"); its full title was found on two bronze standard measurers dated 179 CE (with speculation that its material existed in earlier books under different titles) and was provided with detailed commentary by Liu Hui (fl. 3rd century) in 263. It is worth noting in this context that many of the documents excavated from Qin and Han sites contain evidence of the practical mathematics used by administrators for inventories and taxes, as well as for calculating labor needed for public works projects, just as described in the mathematical treatises.\n\nThe \"Suan shu shu\" presents basic mathematics problems and solutions. It was most likely a handbook for day-to-day business transactions or affairs of government administration. It contains problems and solutions for field measurements of area, proportional exchange rates for agricultural millet and rice, distribution by proportion, short width division, and excess and deficiency. Some of the problems found in the \"Suan shu shu\" appear in the later text \"Jiuzhang suanshu\"; in five cases, the titles are exact matches. However, unlike the \"Jiuzhang suanshu\", the \"Suan shu shu\" does not deal with problems involving right-angle triangles, square roots, cube roots, and matrix methods, which demonstrates the significant advancements made in Chinese mathematics between the writings of these two texts.\nThe \"Zhoubi suanjing\", written in dialogue form and with regularly presented problems, is concerned with the application of mathematics to astronomy. In one problem which sought to determine the height of the Sun from the Earth and the diameter of the Sun, Chen Zi (陳子) instructs Rong Fang (榮方) to wait until the shadow cast by the 8 \"chi\" tall gnomon is 6 \"chi\" (one \"chi\" during the Han was 33 cm), so that a 3-4-5 right-angle triangle can be constructed where the base is 60,000 \"li\" (one \"li\" during the Han was the equivalent of 415 m or 1362 ft), the hypotenuse leading towards the sun is 100,000 \"li\", and the height of the sun is 80,000 \"li\". Like the \"Jiuzhang suanshu\", the \"Zhoubi suanjing\" also gives mathematical proof for the \"Gougu Theorem\" (勾股定理; i.e. where \"c\" is the length of the hypotenuse and \"a\" and \"b\" are the lengths of the other two sides, respectively, a + b = c), which is known as the Pythagorean theorem in the West after the Greek mathematician Pythagoras (fl. 6th century BCE).\n\nThe \"Jiuzhang suanshu\" was perhaps the most groundbreaking of the three surviving Han treatises. It is the first known book to feature negative numbers, along with the Bakhshali manuscript (200? – 600? CE) of India and the book of the Greek mathematician Diophantus (fl. 3rd century) written in about 275 CE. Negative numbers appeared as black counting rods, while positive numbers appeared as red counting rods. Although the decimal system existed in China since the Shang dynasty (c. 1600 – c. 1050 BCE), the earliest evidence of a decimal fraction (i.e. the denominator is a power of ten) is an inscription on a standard volume-measuring vessel dated 5 CE and used by the mathematician and astronomer Liu Xin (46 BCE – 23 CE). Yet the first book to feature decimal fractions was the \"Jiuzhang suanshu\", as a means to solve equations and represent measurements. Gaussian elimination, an algorithm used to solve linear equations, was known as the Array Rule in the \"Jiuzhang suanshu\". While the book used continued fractions to find the roots of equations, Liu Hui built on this idea in the 3rd century when he increased the decimals to find the cube root of 1,860,867 (yielding the answer 123), the same method used in the Horner scheme named after William George Horner (1786–1837).\n\nFor centuries, the Chinese had simply approximated the value of pi as 3, until Liu Xin approximated it at 3.154 sometime between 1–5 CE, although the method he used to reach this value is unknown to historians. Standard measuring vessels dating to the reign of Wang Mang (9–23 CE) also showed approximations for pi at 3.1590, 3.1497, and 3.167. Zhang Heng is the next known Han mathematician to have made an approximation for pi. Han mathematicians understood that the area of a square versus the area of its inscribed circle had an approximate ratio of 4:3, and also understood that the volume of a cube and the volume of its inscribed sphere would be 4:3. With \"D\" as diameter and \"V\" as volume, D:V = 16:9 or V=⁄D, a formula Zhang found fault with since he realized the value for diameter was inaccurate, the discrepancy being the value taken for the ratio. To fix this, Zhang added ⁄D to the formula, thus V = ⁄D + ⁄D = ⁄D. Since he found the ratio of the volume of the cube to the inscribed sphere at 8:5, the ratio of the area of a square to the inscribed circle is :. With this formula, Zhang was able to approximate pi as the square root of 10, or 3.162. After the Han, Liu Hui approximated pi as 3.14159, while the mathematician Zu Chongzhi (429–500) approximated pi at 3.141592 (or ⁄), the most accurate approximation the ancient Chinese would achieve.\n\nMathematics were also used in musical tuning and music theory. The 2nd-century-BCE \"Huainanzi\", compiled by eight scholars under the patronage of King Liu An (179–122 BCE), outlined the use of twelve tones on a musical scale. Jing Fang (78–37 BCE), a mathematician and music theorist, expanded these to create a scale of 60 tones. While doing so, Jing Fang realized that 53 just fifths is approximate to 31 octaves. By calculating the difference at ⁄, Jing reached the same value of 53 equal temperament duly discovered by the German mathematician Nicholas Mercator (1620–1687) (i.e. 3/2, known as Mercator's comma). Later, the prince Zhu Zaiyu (1536–1611) in Ming China and Simon Stevin (1548–1620) of the Flemish Region in Europe would simultaneously (but separately) discover the mathematical formula for equal temperament.\n\nThe ancient Chinese made careful observations of heavenly bodies and phenomena since observations of the cosmos were used for astrology and prognostication. The astronomer Gan De (fl. 4th century BCE) from the State of Qi was the first in history to acknowledge sunspots as genuine solar phenomena (and not obstructing natural satellites as thought in the West after Einhard's observation in 807), while the first precisely dated sunspot observation in China occurred on May 10, 28 BCE, during the reign of Emperor Cheng of Han (r. 33–7 BCE). Among the Mawangdui Silk Texts dated no later than 168 BCE (when they were sealed in a tomb at Mawangdui Han tombs site, Changsha, Hunan province), the \"Miscellaneous Readings of Cosmic Patterns and Pneuma Images\" (\"Tianwen qixiang zazhan\" 天文氣象雜占) manuscript illustrates in writings and ink drawings roughly three-hundred different climatic and astronomical features including clouds, mirages, rainbows, stars, constellations, and comets. Another silk text from the same site reports the times and locations of the rising and setting of planets in the night sky from the years 246–177 BCE.\n\nThe Han-era Chinese noted the passage of the same comet seen in Persia for the birth of Mithridates II of Parthia in 135 BCE, the same comet the Romans observed close to the assassination of Julius Caesar in 44 BCE, Halley's comet in 12 BCE, the same comet noted by Roman historian Cassius Dio (c. 155 – c. 229 CE) for 13 CE, and (what is now known to have been) a supernova in AD 185. For various comets discussed in the Han-era history books \"Records of the Grand Historian\" and \"Book of Han\", details are given for their position in the sky and direction they were moving, the length of time they were visible, their color, and their size.\n\nThe Han-era Chinese also made star catalogues, such as historian Sima Qian's (145–86 BCE) \"A Monograph on Celestial Officials\" (\"Tianguanshu\" 天官書) and Zhang Heng's 2nd-century-CE star catalogue which featured roughly 2,500 stars and 124 constellations. To create a three-dimensional representation of such observations, Astronomer Geng Shouchang (耿壽昌) provided his armillary sphere with an equatorial ring in 52 BCE. By 84 CE, the elliptical ring was added to the armillary sphere, while Zhang Heng's model of 125 added the celestial horizon ring and meridian ring.\n\nThe Han Chinese used astronomical studies mainly to construct and revise their calendar. In contrast to the Julian calendar (46 BCE) and Gregorian calendar (1582) of the West (but like the Hellenic calendars of Classical Greece), the Chinese calendar is a lunisolar calendar, meaning that it uses the precise movements of the Sun and Moon as time-markers throughout the year. During the spring and autumn periods of the 5th century BCE, the Chinese established the Sifen calendar (古四分历), which measured the tropical year at 365⁄ days (like the Julian calendar of Rome). Emperor Wu replaced this with the new Taichu calendar (太初历) in 104 BCE, which measured the tropical year at 365⁄ days and the lunar month at 29⁄ days. Since the Taichu calendar had become inaccurate over two centuries, Emperor Zhang of Han (r. 75–88 CE) halted its use and revived use of the Sifen calendar. Later, astronomer Guo Shoujing (1233–1316) would set the tropical year at 365.2425 days for his Shoushi calendar (授時曆), the same value used in the Gregorian calendar. Besides the use of the calendar for regulating agricultural practices throughout the seasons, it was also used to mark important dates in the Sexagenary cycle—constructed by celestial stems (\"gan\" 干) and Earthly Branches (\"zhi\" 支), each of the latter associated with an animal of the Chinese zodiac.\n\nZhao Shaung's 3rd-century commentary in the \"Zhoubi suanjing\" describes two astronomical theories: in one, the heavens are shaped as a hemi-spherical dome extending over the earth, while the other compares the earth to the central yolk of an egg, where the heavens are shaped as a celestial sphere around the earth. The latter astronomical theory was mentioned by Yang Xiong in his \"Model Sayings\" (\"Fayan\" 法言) and expounded on by Zhang Heng in his \"Spiritual Constitution of the Universe\" (\"Lingxian\" 靈憲) of 120 CE. Thus, the Han-era Chinese believed in a geocentric model for the immediate solar system and greater universe, as opposed to a heliocentric model.\nThe Han-era Chinese discussed the illumination and shapes of heavenly bodies: were they flat and circular, or were they rounded and spherical? Jing Fang wrote in the 1st century BCE that Han astronomers believed the Sun, Moon, and planets were spherical like balls or crossbow bullets. He also wrote that the Moon and planets produce no light of their own, are viewable to people on Earth only because they are illuminated by the Sun, and those parts not illuminated by the Sun would be dark on the other side. For this, Jing compared the Moon to a mirror illuminating light. In the 2nd century CE, Zhang Heng drew a similar comparison to Jing's by stating that the Sun is like fire and the Moon and planets are like water, since fire produces light and water reflects it. He also repeated Jing's comment that the side of the moon not illuminated by the Sun was left in darkness. However, Zhang noted that sunlight did not always reach the Moon since the Earth obstructs the rays during a lunar eclipse. He also noted that a solar eclipse occurred when the Moon and Sun crossed paths to block sunlight from reaching earth.\n\nIn his \"Balanced Discourse\" (\"Lunheng\"), Wang Chong (27–100 CE) wrote that some Han thinkers believed that rain fell from the Heavens (i.e. where the stars were located). Wang argued that, although rain fell from above, this common theory was false. He agreed with another theory that stated clouds were formed by the evaporation of water on earth, and that since clouds disperse rain, clouds and rain are in fact one and the same; in essence, he accurately described the water cycle.\n\nTimber was the chief building material in Han architecture. It was used for grand palace halls, multi-story towers, multi-story residential halls, and humble abodes. However, due to wood's rapid decay over time and susceptibility to fire, the oldest wooden buildings found in China (i.e. several temple halls of Mount Wutai) date no earlier than the Tang dynasty (618–907). Architectural historian Robert L. Thorp describes the scarcity of Han-era archaeological remains, as well as the often unreliable Han-era literary and artistic sources used by historians for clues about non-existent Han architecture. What remains of Han-dynasty architecture are ruins of brick and rammed earth walls (including aboveground city walls and underground tomb walls), rammed earth platforms for terraced altars and halls, funerary stone or brick pillar-gates, and scattered ceramic roof tiles that once adorned timber halls. Sections of the Han-era rammed earth Great Wall still exist in Gansu province, along with the Han frontier ruins of thirty beacon towers and two fortified castles with crenellations. Han walls of frontier towns and forts in Inner Mongolia were typically constructed with stamped clay bricks instead of rammed earth.\n\nThatched or tiled roofs were supported by wooden pillars, since the addition of brick, rammed earth, or mud walls of these halls did not actually support the roof. Stone and plaster were also used for domestic architecture. Tiled eaves projecting outward were built to distance falling rainwater from the walls; they were supported by \"dougong\" brackets that were sometimes elaborately decorated. Molded designs usually decorated the ends of roof tiles, as seen in artistic models of buildings and in surviving tile pieces.\n\nValuable clues about Han architecture can be found in Han artwork of ceramic models, paintings, and carved or stamped bricks discovered in tombs and other sites. The layout of Han tombs were also built like underground houses, comparable to the scenes of courtyard houses found on tomb bricks and in three-dimensional models. Han homes had a courtyard area (and some had multiple courtyards) with halls that were slightly elevated above it and connected by stairways. Multi-story buildings included the main colonnaded residence halls built around the courtyards as well as watchtowers. The halls were built with intersecting crossbeams and rafters that were usually carved with decorations; stairways and walls were usually plastered over to produce a smooth surface and then painted.\n\nThe ruins of the walls of Han's first capital Chang'an still stand today at in height with a base width of . Modern archaeological surveys have proven that the eastern wall was long, the southern wall was long, the western wall was long, and the northern wall was 7,200 (23,622 ft) long. Overall the total length of walls equalled , and formed a roughly square layout (although the southern and northern walls had sections which zigzagged due to topographical concerns: rough terrain existed along the southern wall and the course of the Wei River obstructed the straight path of the northern wall). The city's moat was wide and deep; the remains of what were wooden bridges have been discovered along the moat. Chang'an had twelve gatehouses leading into the city, three for each side of the wall, and acted as terminus points for the main avenues. Every gatehouse had three gateway entrances that were each wide; Han-era writers claimed that each gateway could accommodate the traffic of four horse-drawn carriages at once. The drainage system included many drainholes that were dug under these gates and lined with bricks that form arches, where ceramic water pipes have been found that once connected to the ditches built alongside the major streets. Only some wall sections and platform foundations of the city's once lavish imperial palaces remain. Likewise, the stone foundations of the armory were also discovered, but its wooden architecture had long since disappeared.\nSome sections of the wall ruins of Han's second capital Luoyang still stand at in height and in width at the base. The eastern wall was long, the western wall was long, and the northern wall was long, yet the southern wall was washed away when the Luo River changed its course centuries ago; by using the terminus points of the eastern and western walls, historians estimate that the southern wall was long. The overall walled enclosure formed a rectangular shape, yet with some disruptive curves due to topographical obstructions. Like Chang'an, Luoyang had twelve gatehouses, three for each side of the wall, while each gatehouse had three gateway entrances which led to major avenues within the city. The rammed earth foundational platforms of religious altars and terraces still stand today outside of the walled perimeter of Luoyang, dedicated to the worship of deities and where state sacrifices were conducted. They were approached by long ramps and once had timber halls built on top with verandas on the lower levels.\n\nBy the 1980s, over ten thousand brick-and-stone underground Han tombs had been discovered throughout China. Earlier Chinese tombs dating to the Warring States were often vertically dug pits lined with wooden walls. In digging the tomb sites, Han workers would first build vertical pits and then dig laterally, hence the name \"horizontal pits\" for Han tombs; this method was also used for tomb sites dug into the sides of mountains. The walls of most Western Han tombs were built of large hollow bricks while the smaller, non-hollow brick type that dominated Eastern Han tomb architecture (with some made out of stone) appeared in the late Western Han. The smaller brick type was better-suited for Han tomb archways at entrances, vaulted chambers, and domed roofs. Underground vaults and domes did not require buttress supports since they were held in place by earthen pits. The use of brick vaults and domes in aboveground Han structures is unknown.\n\nThe layout of tombs dug into the sides of mountains typically had a front chamber, side chambers, and a rear chambers designed to imitate a complex of aboveground halls. The tomb of King Liu Sheng (d. 113 BCE) in Hebei province not only had a front hall with window drapes and grave goods, carriages and horses in the southern separate side chamber, and storage goods in the northern side chamber, but also the remains of real timber houses with tiled roofs erected within (along with a house made of stone slabs and two stone doors in the rear chamber). Doors made completely out of stone were found in many Han tombs as well as tombs in later dynasties.\n\nA total of twenty-nine monumental brick or stone-carved pillar-gates (\"que\") from the Han dynasty have survived and can be found in the aboveground areas around Han tomb and shrine sites. They often formed part of outer walls, usually flanking an entry but sometimes at the corners of walled enclosures. Although they lack wooden and ceramic components, they feature imitation roof tiles, eaves, porches, and balustrades.\n\nOn Han tomb brick reliefs of Sichuan province, scenes of borehole drilling for mining projects are shown. They show towering derricks lifting liquid brine through bamboo pipes to the surface so that the brine could be distilled in evaporation pans over the heat of furnaces and produce salt. The furnaces were heated by natural gas brought by bamboo pipes, yet gas brought up from below the surface could cause an explosion if it was not properly mixed with oxygen first, so the Han-era Chinese built underground carburetor chambers and siphoned some of the gas off with exhaust pipes. The drill bit for digging boreholes was operated by a team of men jumping on and off a beam while the boring tool was rotated by a draft animal, usually oxen or water buffaloes. Han boreholes dug for collecting brine could reach hundreds of meters (feet) beneath the Earth's surface. Mining shafts dating to the Han dynasty have been found which reach depths of hundreds of meters (feet) beneath the earth, complete with spacious underground rooms structured by timber frames along with ladders and iron tools left behind.\n\nThere are Han-era literary references to tall towers found in the capital cities; they often served as watchtowers, astronomical observatories, and religious establishments meant to attract the favor of immortals. The court eunuchs Zhao Zhong and Zhang Rang discouraged the aloof Emperor Ling of Han (r. AD 168–189) from ascending to the top floors of tall towers (claiming it would cause bad luck), in order to conceal from him the enormous palatial mansions the eunuchs built for themselves in Luoyang. It is not known for certain whether or not miniature ceramic models of residential towers and watchtowers found in Han-dynasty tombs are completely faithful representations of such timber towers, yet they reveal vital clues about lost timber architecture.\n\nThere are only a handful of existing ceramic models of multi-story towers from pre-Han and Western Han eras; the bulk of the hundreds of towers found so far were made during the Eastern Han period. Model towers could be fired as one piece in the kiln or assembled from several different ceramic pieces to create the whole. No one tower is a duplicate of the other, yet they share common features. They often had a walled courtyard at the bottom, a balcony with balustrades and windows for every floor, roof tiles capping and concealing the ceiling rafters, human figures peering out the windows or standing on the balconies, door knockers, and pets such as dogs in the bottom courtyard. Perhaps the most direct pieces of evidence to suggest that miniature ceramic tower models are faithful representations of real-life Han timber towers are tile patterns. Artistic patterns found on the circular tiles that cap the eave-ends on the miniature models are exact matches of patterns found on real-life Han roof tiles excavated at sites such as the royal palaces in Chang'an and Luoyang, and even the tiles of the original White Horse Temple. The ceramic model towers featured below come from tombs of the Han dynasty:\n\nBesides towers, other ceramic models from the Han reveal a variety of building types. This includes multi-story storehouses such as granaries, courtyard houses with multi-story halls, kiosks, walled gate towers, mills, manufactories and workshops, animal pens, outhouses, and water wells. Even models of single-story farmhouses show a great amount of detail, including tiled roofs, courtyards, steps leading to walkways, farmyards with troughs and basins, parapets, and privies. Models of granaries and storehouses had tiled rooftops, \"dougong\" brackets, windows, and stilt supports raising them above ground level. Han models of water wells sometimes feature tiny tiled roofs supported by beams that house the rope pulley used for lifting the bucket. The ceramic models featured below come from tombs of the Han dynasty:\n\nIn order to facilitate commerce and communication as well as speed the process of tax collection and movement of military troops, the Han government sponsored the building of new roads, bridges, and . These include repairs and renovation work on the Dujiangyan Irrigation System of Sichuan and Zhengguo Canal of Shaanxi, both of which were built by the previous State of Qin. Accepting the proposal of Ni Kuan (), in 111 BCE Emperor Wu commissioned Er to lead the project of creating extensions to the Zhengguo Canal that could irrigate nearby terrain elevated above the main canal. Since a large amount of silt had built up over time at the bottom of the Zhengguo Canal (causing flooding), in 95 BCE another project was initiated to tap irrigation waters from further up the Jing River, requiring the dredging of a new long canal following a contour line above the Zhengguo. The Han state also maintained a system of dikes to protect farmland from seasonal floods.\nRoadways, wooden bridges, postal stations, and relay stations were occasionally repaired, while many new facilities such as these were established. As written by Han authors, roads built during the Han were tamped down with metal rammers, yet there is uncertainty over the materials used; Joseph Needham speculates that they were rubble and gravel. The widths of roads ranged from narrow footpaths where only a single horse or oxen could pass at once to large highways that could accommodate the simultaneous passage of nine horse-drawn chariots abreast. Fortified Han roadways were built as far west as Shanshan (Loulan) near the Lop Desert, while Han forces utilized routes that traversed north of the Taklamakan Desert towards Kashgar. A vast network of roads, fortified passes, and wooden bridges built over rushing torrents in steep gorges of the Qin Mountains was consolidated during the Han, known as the gallery roads. During the reign of Emperor Wu, roads were built to connect newly conquered territories in what is now Yunnan in the far southwest as well as the Korean Peninsula in the far northeast.\n\nOne of the most common bridge-types built during the Han was the wooden-trestle beam bridge, described by literary sources and seen in reliefs carved on tomb bricks. Evidence for arch bridges is elusive: one outside of Chengdu's south gate is claimed to date to the Han period, while that built by Ma Xian (馬賢) (fl. 135 CE) was certainly a beam bridge. In artwork, a relief sculpture from a Han tomb in Sichuan province shows an arch bridge with a gradual curve, suggesting that it is segmental, although the use of such bridges are not entirely confirmed. Although there are rare references to simple suspension bridges in Han sources, these are only mentioned in connection with travels to foreign countries in the Himalaya, Hindukush and Afghanistan, demonstrating the antiquity of the invention there. Floating pontoon bridges made of boats secured by iron chains were built during the Han (some even spanning the Yellow River and Yangzi River) and were most often employed for military purposes since they could be easily assembled and then disassembled.\n\nMuch of the beliefs held by Han-era physicians are known to modern historians through such texts as the \"Yellow Emperor's Inner Canon\" (\"Huangdi neijing\") medical corpus, which was compiled from the 3rd to 2nd century BCE and was mentioned in the \"Book of Later Han\". It is clear from this text and others that their metaphysical beliefs in the five phases and yin and yang dictated their medical decisions and assumptions. The Han-era Chinese believed that each organ in the body was associated with one of the five phases (metal 金, wood 木, water 水, fire 火, earth 土) and had two circulatory qi channels (任督二脉). If these channels were disrupted, Han medical texts suggest that one should consume an edible material associated with one of these phases that would counteract the organ's prescribed phase and thus restore one's health. For example, the Chinese believed that when the heart—associated with the fire phase—caused one to become sluggish, then one should eat sour food because it was associated with the wood phase (which promoted fire). The Han Chinese also believed that by using pulse diagnosis, a physician could determine which organ of the body emitted \"vital energy\" (\"qi\") and what qualities the latter had, in order to figure out the exact disorder the patient was suffering. Despite the influence of metaphysical theory on medicine, Han texts also give practical advice, such as the proper way to perform clinical lancing to remove an abscess. The \"Huangdi neijing\" noted the symptoms and reactions of people with various diseases of the liver, heart, spleen, lung, or kidneys in a 24-hour period, which was a recognition of circadian rhythm, although explained in terms of the five phases.\n\nIn his \"Essential Medical Treasures of the Golden Chamber\" (\"Jinkui yaolue\"), Zhang Zhongjing (c. 150 – c. 219 CE) was the first to suggest a regulated diet rich in certain vitamins could prevent different types of disease, an idea which led Hu Sihui (fl. 1314–1330) to prescribe a diet rich in Vitamin B as a treatment for beriberi. Zhang's major work was the \"Treatise on Cold Injury and Miscellaneous Disorders\" (\"Shanghan zabing lun\"). His contemporary and alleged associate Hua Tuo (d. 208 CE) was a physician who had studied the \"Huangdi neijing\" and became knowledgeable in Chinese herbology. Hua Tuo used anesthesia on patients during surgery and created an ointment that was meant to fully heal surgery wounds within a month. In one diagnosis of an ill woman, he deciphered that she bore a dead fetus within her womb which he then removed, curing her of her ailments.\n\nHistorical sources say that Hua Tuo rarely practiced moxibustion and acupuncture. The first mentioning of acupuncture in Chinese literature appeared in the \"Huangdi neijing\". Acupuncture needles made of gold were found in the tomb of the Han King Liu Sheng (d. 113 BCE). Some stone-carved depictions of acupuncture date to the Eastern Han Era (25–220 CE). Hua Tuo also wrote about the allegedly life-prolonging exercises of calisthenics. In the 2nd-century-BCE medical texts excavated from the Mawangdui, illustrated diagrams of calisthenic positions are accompanied by descriptive titles and captions. Vivienne Lo writes that the modern physical exercises of taijiquan and qigong are derived from Han-era calisthenics.\n\nMap-making in China preceded the Han dynasty. Since two 4th-century-BCE silk maps from the State of Qin (found in Gansu, displaying the region about the Jialing River) show the measured distance between timber-gathering sites, Mei-ling Hsu argues that these are to be considered the first known economic maps (as they predate the maps of the Roman geographer Strabo, c. 64 BCE – 24 CE). Maps from the Han period have also been uncovered by modern archaeologists, such as those found with 2nd-century-BCE silk texts at Mawangdui. In contrast to the Qin maps, the Han maps found at Mawangdui employ a more diverse use of map symbols, cover a larger terrain, and display information on local populations and even pinpoint locations of military camps. One of the maps discovered at Mawangdui shows positions of Han military garrisons which were to attack Nanyue in 181 BCE.\nIn Chinese literature, the oldest reference to a map comes from the year 227 BCE, when the assassin Jing Ke was to present a map to Ying Zheng 嬴政, King of Qin (ruling later as Qin Shi Huang, r. 221–210 BC) on behalf of Crown Prince Dan of Yan. Instead of presenting the map, he pulled out a dagger from his scroll, yet was unable to kill Ying Zheng. The \"Rites of Zhou\" (\"Zhouli\"), compiled during the Han and commented by Liu Xin in the 1st century CE, mentioned the use of maps for governmental provinces and districts, principalities, frontier boundaries, and locations of ores and minerals for mining facilities. The first Chinese gazetteer was written in 52 CE and included information on territorial divisions, the founding of cities, and local products and customs. Pei Xiu (224–271 CE) was the first to describe in detail the use of a graduated scale and geometrically plotted reference grid. However, historians Howard Nelson, Robert Temple, and Rafe de Crespigny argue that there is enough literary evidence that Zhang Heng's now lost work of 116 CE established the geometric reference grid in Chinese cartography (including a line from the \"Book of Later Han\": \"[Zhang Heng] cast a network of coordinates about heaven and earth, and reckoned on the basis of it\"). Although there is speculation fueled by the report in Sima's \"Records of the Grand Historian\" that a gigantic raised-relief map representing the Qin Empire is located within the tomb of Qin Shi Huang, it is known that small raised-relief maps were created during the Han dynasty, such as one made out of rice by the military officer Ma Yuan (14 BCE – 49 CE).\n\nIn 1975, an ancient shipyard discovered in Guangzhou is now dated to the late 3rd century BCE, made during either the Qin dynasty (221–206 BCE) or early Western Han dynasty. It had three large platforms capable of building wooden ships that were long, wide, and had a weight capacity of 60 metric tons. Another Han shipyard in what is now Anhui province had a government-operated maritime workshop where battle ships were assembled. The widespread use of iron tools during the Han dynasty was essential for crafting such vessels.\n\nThe southward expansion of the Han dynasty led to new trade routes and diplomatic contact with foreign kingdoms. In 111 BCE, Emperor Wu conquered the Kingdom of Nanyue in what is now modern northern Vietnam and Guangdong, Guangxi, Yunnan; thereafter he opened up maritime trade to both Southeast Asia and the Indian Ocean, as foreign merchants brought lapis lazuli, pearls, jade, and glasswares to the Han Empire from this southern sea route. When a group of travelers from the Roman Empire (allegedly diplomats of Marcus Aurelius but most likely Roman merchants) came to the Han court in 166 CE, they allegedly came from this southern trade route. By at least the 1st century CE — as proven by Eastern Han ceramic miniature models of ships found in various tombs — the Chinese would have been able to brave distant waters with the new steering invention of the stern-mounted rudder. This came to replace the less efficient steering oar. While ancient China was home to various ship designs, including the layered and fortified tower ship meant for calm waters of lakes and river, the \"junk\" design (\"jun\" 船) created by the 1st century was China's first seaworthy sailing ship. The typical junk has a square-ended bow and stern, a flat-bottomed hull or carvel-shaped hull with no keel or sternpost, and solid transverse bulkheads in the place of structural ribs found in Western seacrafts. Since the Chinese junk lacked a sternpost, the rudder was attached to the back of the ship by use of either socket-and-jaw or block and tackle (which differed from the later European pintle and gudgeon design of the 12th century). As written by a 3rd-century author, junks had for-and-aft rigs and lug sails.\nAlthough horse and ox-drawn carts and spoke-wheeled chariots had existed in China long before the Han dynasty, it was not until the 1st century BCE that literary evidence pointed to the invention of the wheelbarrow, while painted murals on Han tomb walls of the 2nd century CE show the wheelbarrow in use for hauling goods. While the 'throat-and-girth' harness was still in use throughout much of the ancient world (placing an excessive amount of pressure on horses' necks), the Chinese were placing a wooden yoke across their horses' chests with traces to the chariot shaft by the 4th century BCE in the State of Chu (as seen on a Chu lacquerware). By Han times, the Chinese replaced this heavy yoke with a softer breast strap, as seen in Han stamped bricks and carved tomb reliefs. In the final stage of evolution, the modern horse collar was invented in China by the 5th century, during the Northern Wei period.\n\nThe pivot catapult, known as the traction trebuchet, had existed in China since the Warring States period (as evidenced by the \"Mozi\"). It was regularly used in sieges during the Han dynasty, by both besiegers and the besieged. The most common projectile weapon used during the Han dynasty was the small handheld, trigger-activated crossbow (and to a lesser extent, the repeating crossbow), first invented in China during the 6th or 5th century BCE. Although the nomadic Xiongnu were able to twist their waists slightly while horse-riding and shoot arrows at targets behind them, the official Chao Cuo (d. 154 BCE) deemed the Chinese crossbow superior to the Xiongnu bow.\nThe Han Chinese also employed chemical warfare. In quelling a peasant revolt near Guiyang in 178 CE, the imperial Han forces had horse-drawn chariots carrying bellows that were used to pump powdered lime (calcium oxide) at the rebels, who were dispersed. In this same instance, they also lit incendiary rags tied to the tails of horses, so that the frightened horses would rush through the enemy lines and disrupt their formations.\n\nTo deter pursuits of marching infantry or riding cavalry, the Han Chinese made caltrops (barbed iron balls with sharp spikes sticking out in all directions) that could be scattered on the ground and pierce the feet or hooves of those who were unaware of them.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21394742", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21394742", "title": "Sima Milutinović Sarajlija", "text": "Sima Milutinović Sarajlija\n\nSimeon \"Sima\" Milutinović \"Sarajlija\" (, ; 3 October 1791 – 30 December 1847) was a Bosnian Serb poet, hajduk, translator, historian, philologist, diplomat and adventurer.\n\nFrom his birth his life was a constant adventure. It began with his family's flight from the plague and the Turks. Its zenith came during the Serbian insurrections, and it ended in the unmatched glory of a poet and his grandiose political plans.\n\nSima Milutinović was born in Sarajevo, Ottoman Empire in 1791, hence his nickname Sarajlija (\"The Sarajevan\"). His father was from the village of Rožanstvo near Užice, which he left running away from the plague and eventually settled in Sarajevo long enough to marry a famed town beauty Anđelija Srdanović who is Sima's mother.\n\nSima wasn't even two years of age when another plague outbreak hit Sarajevo. The family fled the town, seeking refuge on several locations in Bosnia, before going to Slavonski Brod, before ending up in Zemun where Sima commenced primary education but never completed it. He then attended school in Szeged (Hungary) and was later expelled from gymnasium in Sremski Karlovci.\n\nDuring the First Serbian Uprising he was a scribe in Karađorđe's Governing Council (Praviteljstvujušći Sovjet). Sarajlija laid Dositej Obradović to rest and joined a guerilla band, commanded by hajduk Zeka Buljubaša. It was in the heat of battles with Ottoman Turks that his first poems germinated. They were not revolutionary odes, however, but love songs. They were inspired by his first great love - Fatima, a Turkish girl. After the collapse of the First Serbian Uprising he was a hajduk and teacher in Vidin. He also spent a year or two in a Turkish dungeon. After evading the Turks, he went to Chişinău (then part of Russia), where he remained, long enough to write \"The Serbian Maid\". It is said that he sent reports to confidants of Miloš Obrenović I, Prince of Serbia concerning Karađorđe's followers in exile. This did not keep him later from turning against the Obrenović faction. In 1825 he went to Germany where he enrolled in the University of Leipzig, though he did not tarry there. Instead, a year later, he went back to Serbia to be a clerk in the employ of Prince Miloš but on arriving in Zemun, however, he turned about and went to Trieste, Kotor, and then Cetinje.\n\nHe arrived in Cetinje on 25 September 1827, uninvited, led by the passions of adventure and poetry and, at the same time, deep patriotism. He was neither the first nor the last stranger to be attracted by the blazing heroism and hidden power of Montenegro. A gifted adventurer—Stephen the Small—had once wandered into this land from out of nowhere, and organized the first civil government. There was something of the adventurer in the Petrović bishops as well—in every one of them, in one way or another. Sarajlija simply blew into the Montenegro wilderness, fleeing before the Kotor police because of the\nirregularity of his documents. He was to captivate Bishop Petar I Petrović Njegoš from the beginning. \"As soon as I laid eyes on him, he came to my heart\", the old man wrote to Jeremija Gagić, the Russian vice-consul at Dubrovnik, and added, \"I do not know whether any other Serb would be willing to live in Montenegro.\" Sarajlija found Rade (the Bishop's nephew and the future Petar II Petrović Njegoš) there when he arrived.\n\nThe Bishop immediately took him in as a secretary. Sima pushed himself forward and grasped for power. He was not only sent, but he went himself among the tribes to dispense justice and settle disputes. He took upon himself the education of Bishop's nephew Rade. Then suddenly something came into his head and he disappeared into the mountains, shut himself up in a hut, and after several days returned with the tragedy \"Obilić\".\n\nHe already had been everywhere, had experienced everything, had seen many different forms of government—including those born of revolution and arising from the most primitive conditions. He was nurtured in rebellions and prisons, in political strife, intrigue, and espionage, and, being himself unstable, unpredictable, he was accustomed to quick upheavals. Bishop Petar was to have many trials and tribulations with him. Sima got the old man to sign unread letters which brought the latter into conflict with Prince Miloš of Serbia. Miloš who recognized and had a regard for the genuine thing, was to pronounce a final judgement on Sima: \"A young cloud-chaster whose nose scrapes the sky.\"\n\nAs soon as he arrived, Sarajlija began to think up schemes, to have ideas, to lay plans. How would it be, he proposed an alliance to Prince Miloš to attack the Turks? He was in the very eye of the Montenegrin storm which lay pent up in the stillness of the monastery waiting to break out at the death of the old Bishop.\n\nDirect and provocative, Sarajlija hardly felt like a stranger. Nor was he regarded as such. It was as though his irrepresible nature had found refuge for the first time, in a land in which—as he himself said -- \"every rifle is a cannon, every head anointed, every wish the general will, every home a castle, and every cliff a fortress.\"\n\nHe was a handsome man with a mighty frame, and this is not without importance in Montenegro. That is what his painting (the excellent portrait done by Katarina Ivanoviċ) also portrays—masculine beauty, willfulness, energy. He already enjoyed the fame of a poet, and his life was stormy even for those times of rebellions and revolutions. In 1829 Bjelice tribe struggled against Ozirinići and Cuce, two neighboring tribes, and Petar I Petrović-Njegoš sent Sarajlija and Mojsije to negotiate peace among them.\n\nSarajlija remained in Cetinje more than three years—until the spring of 1831. But he still did not have enough of Montenegro. He was to come another three times—to be sure, on secret, inexplicable, and perhaps even invetented missions.\n\nIn 1836 he escorted Prince Miloš to Istanbul, only to find himself immediately thereafter in Prague, Vienna, and Budapest. He remained a while in Budapest and married there, in 1838, Marija Popović-Punktatorka (1810–1875), who was also a poet. (She carried on a lively correspondence with Vuk Karadžić, Milovan Vidaković, and Đorđe Marković Koder among many other men of letters, even before her marriage). In 1839 he was in Belgrade—deep in political intrigue. Again flight and wandering. In 1846 he led a group of Serbian students to St. Petersburg, where they were to study. He died suddenly in Belgrade at the end of 1847 at the height of his strength and vigor. He was mourned by all, as the greatest Serbian poet (of his day), even in distant Montenegro, where his erstwhile pupil, Njegoš, dedicated to his ashes an ode which was lavish and unstinting in love and appreciation. He was buried in the graveyard at St. Mark's Church.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32062574", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32062574", "title": "Simpson point", "text": "Simpson point\n\nThe Simpson point is a Paleo-Indian projectile point with a wide blade noted for exhibiting a narrowed 'waist' (middle section). It also features a concave base and eared basal corners. It was named in 1962 by Ripley P. Bullen. Points are mostly dated to 9000BC and are considered to be a typical example of the Middle Paleo-Indian subperiod (9000-8500 BC).\n"}
{"id": "2594866", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2594866", "title": "Solomon Judah Loeb Rapoport", "text": "Solomon Judah Loeb Rapoport\n\nSolomon Judah Löb HaKohen Rapoport (June 1, 1786 – October 15, 1867) (Hebrew: שלמה יהודה כהן רפאפורט), was a Galician rabbi and Jewish scholar. He was born in Lemberg, Kingdom of Galicia and Lodomeria. He married in 1810 Franziska Freide Heller, the daughter of the well-known Aryeh Leib Heller, and was instrumental in publishing the work \"Avnei Miluim\" of his father in law. He wrote both the index, sources and numerous comments.\n\nAfter various experiences in business, Rapoport became rabbi of Tarnopol (1837) and of Prague (1840). He was one of the founders of the new Wissenschaft des Judentums movement. His chief work was the first part of an (unfinished) encyclopaedia (\"Erekh Millin\", 1852). Equally notable were his biographies of Saadia Gaon, Nathan (author of the \"Arukh\"), Hai Gaon, Eleazar Kalir and others.\n\nThrown upon his own resources about 1817, Rapoport became the collector of the meat-tax on farmers. He had already given evidence of marked critical ability, though his writings previously published were of a light character—poems and translations. His critical talent, however, soon revealed itself. In 1824 he wrote an article for \"Bikkure ha-'Ittim\" on the independent Jewish tribes of Arabia and Abyssinia. Though this article gained him some recognition, a more permanent impression was made by his work on Saadia Gaon and his times (published in the same journal in 1829), the first of a series of biographical works on the medieval Jewish sages. Because of this work he received recognition in the scholarly world and gained many enthusiastic friends, especially S. D. Luzzatto.\n\nAfter the fashion in rabbinic circles, Rapoport was known by an acronym \"Shir\", formed by the initial letters of his Hebrew name Shelomo Yehuda Rapoport (Shir literally means \"song\" in Hebrew).\n\nLeopold Greenwald quotes a letter from Mendel Mahr to Moses Sofer, regarding Sofer's attitude towards Rapoport. Mahr criticized what he felt was an overly moderate stance by Sofer, and mentioned that it was well known in Lemberg that Rapoport had had an affair with a married woman which lasted around two and a half years.\n\nSolomon Judah Löb Rapoport notes that according to the Masoretes there are ten vowel sounds. He suggests that the passage in the \"Sefer Yetzirah\", which discusses the manipulation of letters in the creation of the world, can be better understood if the Sephirot refer to vowel sounds. He posits that the word \"sephirah\" in this case is related to the Hebrew word \"sippur\" (\"to retell\"). His position is based on his belief that most Kabbalistic works written after \"Sefer Yetzirah\" (including the \"Zohar\") are forgeries.\n\nRapoport died in Prague.\n"}
{"id": "1380800", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1380800", "title": "The Two Babylons", "text": "The Two Babylons\n\nThe Two Babylons, subtitled The Papal Worship Proved to Be the Worship of Nimrod and His Wife is a religious pamphlet published in 1853 by the Presbyterian Free Church of Scotland theologian Alexander Hislop (1807–65).\n\nIts central theme is its allegation that the Catholic Church is a veiled continuation of the pagan religion of ancient Babylon, the product of a millennia-old secret conspiracy founded by the Biblical king Nimrod and the Assyrian queen Semiramis, who Hislop claimed was Nimrod's wife. It claims that modern Catholic holidays, including Christmas and Easter are actually pagan festivals established by Semiramis and that the customs associated with them are pagan rituals. Modern scholars have unanimously rejected the book's arguments as erroneous and based on a flawed understanding of Babylonian religion, but variations of them are accepted among some groups of evangelical Protestants.\n\nIt was expanded in 1858, going through many editions. A 3rd edition was published in 1862, a 7th in 1871, a popular edition in 1903. It has been claimed on many websites that \"The Two Babylons\" was only finally published as a book in 1919, even though the third edition had already reached 500 pages in length.\n\nThe book has been published by various Protestant publishing houses over the years, one being Chick Publications, which is still publishing the book as of 2018.\n\nHislop builds on the Panbabylonian school of Hyperdiffusionism, which was common in the 19th century, to argue that Classical and Ancient Near Eastern civilization took its inspiration from Babylon. From this, he derives the argument that the mystery religions of Late Antiquity were actually offshoots of one ancient religion founded at the Tower of Babel. Panbabylonism has since been relegated to pseudohistory by some 20th-century scholars.\n\nMuch of Hislop's work centers on his association of the legendary Ninus and his semi-historical wife Semiramis with the Biblical Nimrod as her husband and her son, with their incestuous male offering being Tammuz. Hellenistic histories of the Ancient Near East tended to conflate their faint recollections of the deeds of ancient kings into legendary figures who exerted far more power than any ancient king ever did. In Assyria, they invented an eponymous founder of Nineveh named Ninus, who supposedly ruled 52 years over an empire comparable to the Persian Empire at its greatest extent. Ninus's wife Semiramis was in turn a corruption of the historical figure Shammuramat, regent of the Neo-Assyrian Empire from 811 BC. Hislop takes Ninus as a historical figure, and associates him with the Biblical figure Nimrod, though he was not the first to do so. The Clementine literature made the association in the 4th Century AD. An influential belief throughout the Middle Ages was that Ninus was the inventor of Idolatry, a concept that Hislop clearly drew upon. However, Hislop wrote before the historical records of the ancient near east had been thoroughly decoded and studied, that cast doubt in the decades after he wrote whether there was any such figure as Ninus, and the Greek authors whom he quoted lacked credibility on the subject.\n\n\"The Two Babylons\" heavily relies on Austen Henry Layard's publications of his excavations at Nineveh, which had only been just discovered in 1851. This gave his work an appearance of being well-researched at the time of its publication. For example, Hislop linked the name of Easter with Astarte, the Phoenician fertility goddess by citing Layard's recent discovery of Astarte's Assyrian name, \"Ishtar\", which Hislop took to be \"identical\" to Easter.\nThe claim that \"Easter\" is derived from \"Ishtar\" has been questioned. Modern etymologists derive the word \"Easter\" from the Proto-Indo-European root \"*aus-\", meaning \"dawn,\" potentially by way of . \"Ishtar\" is a Semitic name of uncertain etymology, possibly taken from the same root as Assyria, or from a semitic word meaning \"to irrigate.\"\n\nHislop ultimately claimed to trace Catholic doctrines back to the worship of Nimrod, asserting that the Roman Catholic Church represented Whore of Babylon of the Book of Revelation and that \"the Pope himself is truly and properly the lineal representative of Belshazzar\". He claimed that the Christogram IHS, the first three Greek letters in the name of Jesus, represented Latin characters standing for Isis, Horus and Seb.\n\nIn the note by the editor of the 7th edition, which was published in 1871, it was claimed, \"that no one, so far as we are aware, has ventured to challenge the accuracy of the historical proofs adduced in support of the startling announcement on the title page.\" Since then however there have been many who have challenged the accuracy of Hislop's claims. For example, Lester L. Grabbe has highlighted the fact that Hislop's entire argument, particularly his association of Ninus with Nimrod, is based on a misunderstanding of historical Babylon and its religion. Grabbe also criticizes Hislop for portraying the mythological queen Semiramis as Nimrod's consort, despite the fact that she is never even mentioned in a single text associated with him, and for portraying her as the \"mother of harlots\", even though this is not how she is depicted in any of the texts where she is mentioned.\n\nIn 2011, a critical edition was published. Although Hislop's work is extensively footnoted, some commentators (in particular Ralph Woodrow) have stated that the document contains numerous misconceptions, fabrications, logical fallacies, unsubstantiated conspiracy theories, and grave factual errors.\n\nSome fundamentalist Protestants still regard Hislop's book as proof that the Roman Catholic Church is, in fact, the continuation of ancient Babylonian religion. Jehovah's Witnesses periodical \"The Watchtower\" frequently published excerpts from it until the 1980s. The book's thesis has also featured prominently in the conspiracy theories of racist groups such as The Covenant, The Sword, and the Arm of the Lord and other fringe groups. Author and conspiracy theorist David Icke incorporates Hislop's claims about Semiramis into his book \"The Biggest Secret\", claiming that Semiramis played a key role in the establishment of a global conspiracy run by Reptilian aliens, whom he asserts is secretly controlling humanity.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16027995", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16027995", "title": "Timeline of the Central Plains Water Enhancement Scheme", "text": "Timeline of the Central Plains Water Enhancement Scheme\n\nThis is a timeline of the Central Plains Water Enhancement Scheme.\n\nThe Central Plains Water Enhancement Scheme is a proposed water diversion, damming and water reticulation and irrigation scheme for the Canterbury Plains of New Zealand.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43134145", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43134145", "title": "Vanguardism", "text": "Vanguardism\n\nIn the context of the theory of Leninist revolutionary struggle, vanguardism is a strategy whereby the most class-conscious and politically advanced sections of the proletariat or working class, described as the revolutionary vanguard, form organizations in order to draw larger sections of the working class towards revolutionary politics and serve as manifestations of proletarian political power against its class enemies.\n\nVladimir Lenin popularized political vanguardism as conceptualized by Karl Kautsky, detailing his thoughts in one of his earlier works, \"What is to be done?\". Lenin argued that Marxism's complexity and the hostility of the establishment (the autocratic, semi-feudal state of Imperial Russia) required a close-knit group of individuals pulled from the working class vanguard to safeguard the revolutionary ideology within the particular circumstances presented by the Tsarist régime at the time. While Lenin wished for a revolutionary organization akin to the contemporary Social Democratic Party of Germany, which was open to the public and more democratic in organization, the Russian autocracy prevented this.\n\nLeninists argue that Lenin's ideal vanguard party would be one where membership is completely open: \"The members of the Party are they who accept the principles of the Party programme and render the Party all possible support.\" This party could, in theory, be completely transparent: the \"entire political arena is as open to the public view as is a theater stage to the audience\". A party that supposedly implemented democracy to such an extent that \"the general control (in the literal sense of the term) exercised over every act of a party man in the political field brings into existence an automatically operating mechanism which produces what in biology is called the \"survival of the fittest\"\". This party would be completely open to the public eye as it conducted its business which would mainly consist of educating the proletariat to remove the false consciousness that had been instilled in them.\n\nIn its first phase, the vanguard party would exist for two reasons. Firstly, it would protect Marxism from outside corruption from other ideas as well as advance its concepts. Secondly, it would educate the proletariat in Marxism in order to cleanse them of their \"false individual consciousness\" and instill the revolutionary \"class consciousness\" in them.\nIf the party is successful in this goal, on the eve of revolution, a critical mass of the working class population would be prepared to usher forth the transformation of society. Furthermore, a great number of them, namely their most dedicated members, would belong to the party cadres as professional revolutionaries and would be elected to leadership positions by the mass party membership. Thus the organization would quickly include the entire working class.\n\nOnce the proletariat gained class consciousness and thus was prepared to revolt against the ruling classes, the vanguard party would serve another purpose. The party would coordinate the proletariat through its revolution by acting as a military command hub of sorts. This is, according to Leninists, a vital function as mass revolutions can sometimes be easily crushed by the disciplined military of the ruling classes. The vanguards would serve as commanders of the revolt, chosen to their positions by \"democratic natural selection\".\n\nIn Lenin's view, after the revolution the working class would implement the dictatorship of the proletariat to rule the new worker's state through the first phase of communism, socialism. Here it can be said that the vanguard disappears, as all of society now consists of revolutionaries.\n\nA vanguard party is a political party at the fore of a mass-action political movement and of a revolution. In the praxis of political science, the concept of the vanguard party, composed of professional revolutionaries, was first effected by the Bolshevik Party in the Russian Revolution of 1917. Lenin (Vladimir Ilyich Ulyanov), the first leader of the Bolsheviks, coined the term \"vanguard party\", and argued that such a party was necessary in order to provide the practical and political leadership that would impel the proletariat to achieve a communist revolution. Hence, as a political-science concept and term, \"vanguard party\" most often is associated with Leninism; however, similar concepts (under different names) also are present in other revolutionary ideologies.\n\nFriedrich Engels and Karl Marx presented the concept of the vanguard party as solely qualified to politically lead the proletariat in revolution; in Chapter II: \"Proletarians and Communists\" of \"The Communist Manifesto\" (1848), they said:\n\nAccording to Vladimir Lenin, the purpose of the vanguard party is to establish a dictatorship of the proletariat; supported by the working class. The change of ruling class, from the bourgeoisie to the proletariat, makes possible the full development of socialism. In early 20th century Russia, Lenin argued that the vanguard party would lead the revolution to depose the incumbent Tsarist government, and transfer government power to the working class. In the pamphlet \"What is to be Done?\" (1902), Lenin said that a revolutionary vanguard party, mostly recruited from the working class, should lead the political campaign, because it was the only way that the proletariat could successfully achieve a revolution; unlike the economist campaign of trade union struggle advocated by other socialist political parties and later by the anarcho-syndicalists. Like Karl Marx, Lenin distinguished between the two aspects of a revolution, the economic campaign (labour strikes for increased wages and work concessions), which featured diffused plural leadership; and the political campaign (socialist changes to society), which featured the decisive revolutionary leadership of the Bolshevik vanguard party.\n\nAs he surveyed the European milieu in the late 1890s, Lenin found several theoretic problems with the Marxism of the late 19th century. Contrary to what Karl Marx had predicted, capitalism had become stronger in the last third of the 19th century. In Western Europe, the working class had become poorer, rather than becoming politically progressive, thinking people; hence, the workers and their trade unions, although they had continued to militate for better wages and working conditions, had failed to develop a revolutionary class consciousness, as predicted by Marx. To explain that undeveloped political awareness, Lenin said that the division of labour in a bourgeois capitalist society prevented the emergence of a proletarian class consciousness, because of the ten-to-twelve-hour workdays that the workers laboured in factories, and so had no time to learn and apply the philosophic complexities of Marxist theory. Finally, in trying to effect a revolution in Tsarist Imperial Russia (1721–1917), Lenin faced the problem of an autocratic régime that had outlawed almost all political activity. Although the Tsarist autocracy could not enforce a ban on political ideas, until 1905—when Tsar Nicholas II (1894–1917) agreed to the formation of a national duma—the Okhrana, the Tsarist secret police, suppressed every political group seeking social and political changes, including those with a democratic program.\n\nTo counter such political conditions, Lenin said that a professional revolutionary organization was necessary to organize and lead the most class-conscious workers into a politically coherent movement. About the Russian class struggle, in the book \"What Is to Be Done?\" (1902), against the \"economist\" trend of the socialist parties (who proposed that the working class would develop a revolutionary consciousness from demanding solely economic improvements), Lenin said that the \"history of all countries bears out the fact that, through their own powers alone, the working class can develop only a trade-union consciousness\"; and that under reformist, trade-union leadership, the working class could only engage spontaneous local rebellions to improve their political position within the capitalist system, and that revolutionary consciousness developed unevenly. Nonetheless, optimistic about the working class's ability to develop a revolutionary class consciousness, Lenin said that the missing element for escalating the class struggle to revolution was a political organization that could relate to the radicalism of political vanguard of the working class, who then would attract many workers from the middling policies of the reformist leaders of the trade unions.\n\nIt is often believed that Lenin thought the bearers of class consciousness were the common intellectuals who made it their vocation to conspire against the capitalist system, educate the public in revolutionary theory, and prepare the workers for the proletarian revolution and the dictatorship of the proletariat that would follow. Yet, unlike his Menshevik rivals, Lenin distinguished himself by his hostility towards the bourgeois intelligentsia, and was routinely criticized for placing too much trust in the intellectual ability of the working class to transform society through its own political struggles.\n\nLike other political organizations that sought to change Imperial Russian society, Lenin's Bolshevik Party resorted to conspiracy, and operated in the political underground. Against Tsarist repression, Lenin argued for the necessity of confining membership to people who were professionally trained to combat the Okhrana secret police; however, at its core, the Bolshevik Party was an exceptionally flexible organization who pragmatically adapted policy to changing political situations. After the Revolution of 1905, Lenin proposed that the Bolshevik Party \"open its gates\" to the militant working class, who were rapidly becoming political radicals, in order for the Party to become a mass-action political party with genuine roots in the working class movement.\n\nThe notion of a 'vanguard', as used by Lenin before 1917, did not necessarily imply single-party rule. Lenin considered the Social-Democrats (Bolsheviks) the leading elements of a multi-class (and multi-party) democratic struggle against Tsarism. Even after the October Revolution, the Bolsheviks (now renamed the Communist Party) operated in the Soviets, trade unions, and other working-class mass organizations in a milieu with other revolutionary parties, such as Mensheviks, Social-Revolutionaries and anarcho-communists, and local soviets often elected non-Bolshevik majorities. In this context, Lenin considered the Bolsheviks the vanguard insofar as they were the most consistent defenders of Soviet power (which he considered the dictatorship of the proletariat or 'Commune-state'). However, this situation changed drastically during the Russian Civil War and economic collapse, which decimated the working class and its independent institutions, and saw the development of irreconcilable conflicts between the Bolsheviks and their rivals. At the 10th Congress of the Russian Communist Party (Bolsheviks) in 1921, the Party made the de facto reality de jure by outlawing opposition parties and formalizing single-Party rule.\n\nThus, the concept of a vanguard party was used by the Bolsheviks to justify their suppression of other parties. They took the line that since they were the vanguard of the proletariat, their right to rule could not be legitimately questioned. Hence, opposition parties could not be permitted to exist. From 1936 onward, Communist-inspired state constitutions enshrined this concept by giving the Communist parties a \"leading role\" in society—a provision that was interpreted to either ban other parties altogether or force them to accept the Communists' guaranteed right to rule as a condition of being allowed to exist.\n\nIn the 20th century, the Communist Party of the Soviet Union (CPSU) continued regarding itself as the institutionalization of Marxist–Leninist political consciousness in the Soviet Union; therein lay the justification for its political control of Soviet society. Article 6 of the 1977 Soviet Constitution refers to the CPSU as the \"leading and guiding force of Soviet society, and the nucleus of its political system, of all state organizations and public organizations\". The CPSU, precisely because it was the bearer of Marxist–Leninist ideology, determined the general development of society, directed domestic and foreign policy, and \"imparts a planned, systematic, and theoretically substantiated character\" to the struggle of the Soviet people for the victory of communism.\n\nNonetheless, the political role of the vanguard party, as outlined by Lenin, is disputed among the contemporary communist movement. Lenin's contemporary in the Bolshevik Party, Leon Trotsky, further developed and established the vanguard party with the creation of the Fourth International. Trotsky, who believed in permanent revolution, proposed that a vanguard party must be an international political party who organized the most militant activists of the working classes of the countries of the world. Although the Fourth International faded from the public upon the death of Trotsky, there continued some efforts to revive the concept of an international vanguard party.\n\nAlthough Lenin honed the idea in terms of a class leadership forged out of a proletarian vanguard specifically to describe Marxist-Leninist parties, the term is also used for many kinds of movement conceiving themselves as initially guided by a small elite. Theodor Herzl, the theorist of Zionism, thought legitimation from the majority would only hinder from the outset his movement, and therefore advised that:\n'we cannot all be of one mind; the \"gestor\" will therefore simply take the leadership into his hands and march in the van.'\nThis principle antedated by some years the Leninist idea of Bolshevism as the vanguard of the revolution by characterizing the 'Zionist movement as a vanguard of the Jewish people.' The Youth Guard at the forefront of Zionist mobilization in the Yishuv likewise conceived of itself as a revolutionary vanguard, and the kibbutz movement itself is said to have thought of itself as a 'selfless vanguard'. It is occasionally used with of certain Islamist parties. Writers Abul Ala Maududi and Sayyid Qutb both urged the formation of an Islamic vanguard to restore Islamic society. Qutb talked of an Islamist vanguard in his book Ma'alim fi al-Tariq (\"Milestones\") and Maududi formed the radical Islamist party Jamaat-e-Islami in Pakistan whose goal was to establish a pan-Ummah worldwide Islamist ideological state starting from Pakistan, administered for God solely by Muslims \"whose whole life is devoted to the observance and enforcement\" of Islamic law (Shari'ah), leading to the world becoming the House of Islam. The party members formed an elite group (called \"arkan\") with \"affiliates\" (\"mutaffiq\") and then \"sympathizers\" (\"hamdard\") beneath them. Today, the JI has spread wings to other South Asian countries with large Muslim populations, such as Afghanistan, Bangladesh and India.\n\nAnother elite or vanguard Islamist party is Hizb ut-Tahrir, which seeks to take power for a pan-Islamic state not by a vanguard-led armed struggle, but by a coup d'état. The party seeks to obtains \"support from army generals, leaders, and other influential figures or bodies to facilitate the change of the government.\" According to Roger Eatwell, some fascist parties have also operated in ways similar to the concept of a vanguard party.\n\n\nArts\n\nPolitics\n\n\nPolemics\n"}
{"id": "54331811", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54331811", "title": "Václav Chaloupecký", "text": "Václav Chaloupecký\n\nVáclav Chaloupecký (12 May 1882 Dětenice, Austria-Hungary – 22 November 1951 Dětenice, Czechoslovakia) was a Czech historian, a student of prominent Czech historian Josef Pekař and the main representative of historians in mid-war Slovakia.\n\nHe had studied at the Faculty of Arts, Charles University in Prague (1903–1907). Then he had worked as an archivist and librarian in Roudnice nad Labem (1907–1919). In 1919, he became a state inspector of Slovak archives and libraries (1919–1938). In the same time, he was also a docent (1922) and professor (1922–1938) of the Czechoslovak history at Comenius University. He held several academic positions e.g. dean (1929–1930) and vice-dean (1930–1931) of the Faculty of Arts, rector (1937–1938) and vice-rector (1938–1939) of the university. In 1939 he became an extraordinary professor at the Faculty of Arts in Prague where he had lectured until 1951 (except WWII). A member of the Scholastic Society of Šafárik.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31572944", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31572944", "title": "Waikuri language", "text": "Waikuri language\n\nWaikuri (Guaycura, Waicura) is an extinct language of southern Baja California spoken by the Waikuri or Guaycura people. The Jesuit priest Baegert documented words, sentences and texts in the language between 1751 and 1768.\n\nWaikuri may be, along with the Yukian and Chumashan languages and other languages of southern Baja such as Pericú, among the oldest languages established in California, before the arrival of speakers of Penutian, Uto-Aztecan, and perhaps even Hokan languages. All are spoken in areas with long-established populations of a distinct physical type.\n\nBaegert's data is analyzed by Raoul Zamponi (2004). On existing evidence, Guaycura appears to be unrelated to the Yuman languages to its north. Some linguists have suggested that it belonged to the widely scattered Hokan phylum of California and Mexico (Gursky 1966; Swadesh 1967); however, the evidence for this seems inconclusive (Laylander 1997; Zamponi 2004; Mixco 2006). William C. Massey (1949) suggested a connection with Pericú, but the latter is too meagerly attested to support a meaningful comparison. Other languages of southern Baja are essentially undocumented, though people have speculated from non-linguistic sources that Monqui (Monquí-Didiú), spoken in a small region around Loreto, may have been a 'Guaicurian' language, as perhaps was Huchití (Uchití), though that may have actually been a variety of Guaycura itself (Golla 2007).\n\nThe internal classification of Gauicurian (Waikurian) languages is uncertain. Massey (1949), cited in Campbell (1997:169), gives this tentative classification based on similarity judgments given by colonial-era sources, rather than actual linguistic data.\n\n\nHowever, Laylander (1997) and Zamponi (2004) conclude that Waikuri and Pericú are unrelated.\n\nPhonology of the Waikuri language:\n\nConsonants were voiceless stops \"p t č k\" and maybe glottal stop; voiced \"b d\", nasal \"m n ny\", flap \"r\", trill \"rr\", and approximants \"w y\".\nWaikuri had four vowels, /i, e, a, u/. Whether or not vowel length was phonemic is unknown.\n\nThe little we know of Guaycura grammar was provided by Francisco Pimentel, who analyzed a few verbs and phrases. Guaicura was a polysyllabic language that involved a lot of compounding. For example, 'sky' is \"tekerakadatemba\", from \"tekaraka\" (arched) and \"datemba\" (earth). \n\nBeagert and Pimentel agree that the plural is formed with a suffix \"-ma\". However, Pimentel also notes a prefix \"k-\" with the 'same' function. For example, \"kanai\" 'women', from \"anai\" 'woman'. According to Pimentel, the negation in \"-ra\" of an adjective resulted in its opposite, so from \"ataka\" 'good' is derived \"atakara\" 'bad'. \n\nPronouns were as follows (Golla 2011):\n\nThe \"Pater Noster\" is recorded in Guaycura, with a literal gloss by Pimentel (1874: cap. XXV). \n\n"}
{"id": "8860710", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8860710", "title": "William Barr (Arctic historian)", "text": "William Barr (Arctic historian)\n\nWilliam (Bill) Barr (born 1940) is a Scottish historian now resident of Calgary, Canada, with a specific interest in the history of exploration of the Arctic, and to a lesser degree, the Antarctic. He holds degrees in Geography from the University of Aberdeen, Scotland and McGill University, Québec, Canada. From 1968 until 1999 he was a member of the faculty of the Department of Geography, University of Saskatchewan, Saskatoon, Canada and is now a professor emeritus there.\n\nSince 1999 he is a Research Fellow in residence at the Arctic Institute of North America, University of Calgary.\n\nFor the past 30 years the history of the exploration of the Arctic has been the focus of his research. He has published 16 books, including translations from French, German, and Russian. In 2006, William Barr received a Lifetime Achievement Award for his contributions to the recorded history of the Canadian North from the Canadian Historical Association.\n\nMost of the titles of his works show that William Barr is an admirer of Russian Arctic explorers. His contribution has been crucial to make known to the wider public the exploits of Polar explorations by Russia and the Soviet Union.\n\n"}
{"id": "6916329", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6916329", "title": "William Cronon", "text": "William Cronon\n\nWilliam \"Bill\" Cronon, FBA (born September 11, 1954 in New Haven, Connecticut) is a noted environmental historian and the Frederick Jackson Turner and Vilas Research Professor of History, Geography, and Environmental Studies at the University of Wisconsin–Madison. He was president of the American Historical Association (AHA) in 2012.\n\nBorn in Connecticut, Cronon earned his D.Phil. from Jesus College, Oxford while a Rhodes Scholar from 1976 to 1978. He holds a B.A. (1976) from the University of Wisconsin–Madison and an M.A. (1979), M.Phil. (1980), and PhD (1990) from Yale University.\n\nIn July 1985 Cronon was awarded a MacArthur Fellowship.\n\nCronon serves on the board of directors for The Trust for Public Land, a national land conservation group. He has been a member of the Wilderness Society since 1995, and as of 2014 he served as vice chair of the organization's governing council.\n\nCronon is best known for his first book \"\" (1983), based on a seminar paper he wrote for his Yale adviser Edmund Sears Morgan. He proposed that the way cultures conceptualize property and ownership is a major factor in economies and ecosystems. Secondly, unlike most historians, he documented that Native Americans actively intervened in and shaped the ecosystems in which they lived.\n\nHis book \"Nature's Metropolis: Chicago and the Great West\" (1991) \"is credited with having radically widened many environmental historians' gaze beyond such things as forests and public lands to include cities and what Cronon calls the 'elaborate and intimate linkages' between city and country.\" Cronon says that Chicago and capitalism fundamentally transformed the open Midwestern countryside. In one chapter, he details how grain became a standardized commodity. At first farmers sold it in sacks with the farm's family name stamped on it; as a commodity, it was sold in bulk as a standardized good stored in silos according to grade. The book won the 1992 Bancroft Prize and was a finalist for the 1992 Pulitzer Prize for History.\nIn his book \"Uncommon Ground: Toward Reinventing Nature\" (1995), and his essay \"The Trouble with Wilderness: Or, Getting Back to the Wrong Nature\", published in \"The New York Times\" (August 13, 1995), Cronon traced the idea of wilderness throughout American history. He claimed that the idea of untouched, pristine wilderness is a fantasy, because all of nature is interconnected. He concludes:\n\nCronon was also featured in Ken Burns's 2009 documentary \"\".\n\nDuring the 2011 Wisconsin protests over the state budget, Cronon started a blog called \"Scholar as Citizen.\" His first blog post, on March 15, 2011, was about the American Legislative Exchange Council (ALEC), an organization that provides model legislation to Republican and Democratic state legislators. According to Anthony Grafton of \"The New Yorker\", \"Cronon argued from indirect evidence that ALEC had played a major role behind the scenes in Governor Walker's attack on public employee unions in Wisconsin. He also argued that this sort of political work, though legitimate, should be done in the open.\"\n\nOn March 17, Stephan Thompson of the Wisconsin Republican Party filed a freedom of information request for email sent from or to Cronon's University of Wisconsin-Madison account that contained keywords related to the ongoing political events, including \"Republican\", \"Scott Walker\", \"recall\", \"collective bargaining\", \"AFSCME\", \"WEAC\", \"rally\", \"union\", and the names of 12 Republican senators who supported Walker's bill.\n\nCronon also wrote an op-ed criticizing Walker for \"The New York Times\", published on March 21, 2011.\n\nOn March 24, Cronon wrote a second blog entry announcing the Wisconsin Republican Party's freedom of information request for his emails, saying that the party's action had \"the nakedly political purpose of trying to embarrass, harass, or silence a university professor\". \nCiting Wisconsin's long history of protecting the right to academic freedom, Cronon asked the Republican Party of Wisconsin to withdraw its request. The party did not withdraw the request and on April 1 the university turned over a selection of Cronon's emails. Attorney John Dowling, acting as senior legal counsel for the University of Wisconsin-Madison, included a statement with the documents that explained the university's decision to continue to withhold some of Cronon's emails.\n\nUniversity of Wisconsin-Madison Chancellor Carolyn \"Biddy\" Martin expounded upon this decision in an email to the UW-Madison campus community on the same day: \n\nMartin discussed the idea of academic freedom and the university's firm commitment to protecting all academics' right to engage in the \"open intellectual exchange\" of ideas.\n\nIn response to these events, on April 4 the Faculty Senate of the University of Wisconsin-Madison passed a resolution to protect academic freedom. The body decided, according to University Committee Chair Judith Burstyn, that the university needed to take a public position to defend academic freedom in the wake of the FOIA records request directed at Cronon. Political scientist Howard Schweber, who was involved in writing the resolution with colleague Donald Downs, commented: \"The university can't change the law, but the university can take a leading position on behalf of public employees everywhere and make a statement that we think this is wrong. What was begun as a classic notion of sunshine being the best disinfectant has turned into a law that's used as a weapon to target not government officials and offices but individual public employees.\"\n\nThe Wisconsin Republican Party had made no report on the contents of Cronon's emails as of August 5, 2011. The party also filed other open records requests. The American Association of University Professors (quoting Cronon) said that \"this action by the Wisconsin Republican Party is an 'obvious assault on academic freedom'\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33477771", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33477771", "title": "Woman's film", "text": "Woman's film\n\nThe woman's film is a film genre which includes women-centered narratives, female protagonists and is designed to appeal to a female audience. Woman's films usually portray \"women's concerns\" such as problems revolving around domestic life, the family, motherhood, self-sacrifice, and romance. These films were produced from the silent era through the 1950s and early 1960s, but were most popular in the 1930s and 1940s, reaching their zenith during World War II. Although Hollywood continued to make films characterized by some of the elements of the traditional woman's film in the second half of the 20th century, the term itself disappeared in the 1960s. The work of directors George Cukor, Douglas Sirk, Max Ophüls, and Josef von Sternberg has been associated with the woman's film genre. Joan Crawford, Bette Davis, and Barbara Stanwyck were some of the genre's most prolific stars.\n\nThe beginnings of the genre can be traced back to D. W. Griffith's silent films. Film historians and critics defined the genre and canon in retrospect. Before the woman's film became an established genre in the 1980s, many of the classic woman's films were referred to as melodramas.\n\nWoman's films are films that were made \"for\" women by predominantly male screenwriters and directors whereas women's cinema encompasses films that have been made \"by\" women.\n\nWhen the woman's film was still at a nascent stage, it was not regarded as a fully independent genre. Mary Ann Doane, for example, argued that the woman's film is not a \"pure genre\" because it is crossed and informed by a number of other genres such as melodrama, film noir, the gothic, and horror film. Similarly, film scholar Scott Simmon argues that the woman's film has remained \"elusive\" to the point of having its very existence questioned. This elusiveness, he argues, is partially due to the fact that the woman's film is an oppositional genre which can only be defined in opposition to male-centered genres like the Western and gangster film. It has also been noted that it is a critically rather than industrially constructed genre, having been defined in retrospect rather than at the time of the films' production. The woman's film was seen as closely related to and even synonymous with melodrama. Other terms commonly used to describe the woman's film were \"drama\", \"romance\", \"love story\", \"comedy drama\", and \"soap opera\". Since the late 1980s, the woman's film has been an established film genre. Film scholar Justine Ashby, however, has observed a trend in British cinema that she calls \"generic eclipse\" whereby films that adhere to all the fundamental tenets of the woman's film are subsumed under other genres. \"Millions Like Us\" (1943) and \"Two Thousand Women\" (1944), for example, have been described and promoted as war films rather than woman's films.\n\nThe woman's film differs from other film genres in that it is primarily addressed to women. Cinema historian Jeanine Basinger argues that the first of three purposes of the woman's film is \"to place a woman at the center of the story universe\". In most other and particularly men-oriented film genres the opposite is the case as women and their concerns have been assigned minor roles. Molly Haskell explains that \"if a woman hogs this universe unrelentingly, it is perhaps her compensation for all the male-dominated universes from which she has been excluded: the gangster film, the western, the war film, the policier, the rodeo film, the adventure film\". The second purpose of the woman's film, according to Basinger, is \"to reaffirm in the end the concept that a woman's true job is that of being a woman\". A romantic ideal of love is presented as the only \"career\" that will guarantee happiness and that women should aspire to. The third purpose of the genre, as suggested by Basinger, is \"to provide a temporary visual liberation of some sort, however small – an escape into a purely romantic love, into sexual awareness, into luxury, or into the rejection of the female role\". Basinger argues that the major – if not only – action of the woman's film and its biggest source of drama and tragedy is the necessity to make a choice. The heroine will have to decide between two or more paths that are equally appealing but mutually exclusive as, for example, romantic love and a fulfilling job. One path will be right and consistent with the film's overall morality and the other path will be wrong but it will provide liberation. As the films' heroines were punished for following the wrong path and ultimately reconciled to their roles as women, wives, and mothers, Basinger argues that woman's films \"cleverly contradict themselves\" and \"easily reaffirm the status quo for the woman's life while providing little releases, small victories or even big releases, big victories\".\n\nUnlike male-centered movies which are frequently shot outdoors, most woman's films are set in the domestic sphere, which defines the lives and roles of the female protagonist. Whereas the events in woman's films – weddings, proms, births – are socially defined by nature and society, the action in male films – chasing criminals, participating in a fight – is story-driven.\n\nThe themes in woman's and male-oriented films are often diametrically opposed: fear of separation from loved ones, emphasis on emotions, and human attachment in women's films, as opposed to fear of intimacy, repressed emotionality, and individuality in male-oriented movies. The plot conventions of woman's films revolve around several basic themes: love triangles, unwed motherhood, illicit affairs, the rise to power, and mother-daughter relationships. The narrative pattern depends on the activity engaged in by the heroine and commonly includes sacrifice, affliction, choice, and competition. The maternal melodrama, the career woman comedy, and the paranoid woman's film, a subgenre based on suspicion and distrust, are the most frequent subgenres. Female madness, depression, hysteria, and amnesia were frequent plot elements in Hollywood's woman's films of the 1940s. This trend took place when Hollywood tried to incorporate aspects of psychoanalysis. In the medical discourse in films like \"Now, Voyager\" (1942), \"Possessed\" (1947) and \"Johnny Belinda\" (1948), mental health is visually represented by beauty and mental illness by an unkept appearance; health was restored if the female protagonist improved her appearance. Friendship among women was fairly common, although the treatment was superficial and focused more on women's dedication to men and female-male relationships than on their friendships with each other.\nThe woman's films that were produced in the 1930s during the Great Depression have a strong thematic focus on class issues and questions of economic survival whereas the 1940s woman's film places its protagonists in a middle- or upper-middle-class world and is more concerned with the characters' emotional, sexual, and psychological experiences.\n\nThe female protagonist is portrayed as either good or bad. Haskell distinguishes three types of women that are particularly common to woman's films: the extraordinary, ordinary and the \"ordinary woman who becomes extraordinary\". The extraordinary women are characters like Scarlett O'Hara and Jezebel who are played by equally extraordinary actresses like Vivien Leigh and Bette Davis. They are independent and emancipated \"aristocrats of their sex\" who transcend the limitations of their sexual identities. The ordinary women, in contrast, are bound by the rules of their respective societies because their range of options is too limited to break free of their limitations. The ordinary woman who becomes extraordinary is a character who \"begins as a victim of discriminatory circumstances and rises, through pain, obsession, or defiance, to become mistress of her fate.\" Depending on the type of heroine a film champions, a film can be either socially conservative or progressive. Certain archetypal characters appear in many woman's films: unreliable husbands, the other man, a female competitor, the reliable friend, usually an older woman, and the sexless male, frequently depicted as an older man who offers the protagonist security and luxury but makes no sexual demands on her.\n\nA common motif in Hollywood's woman's films is that of the doppelgänger sisters (often played by the same actress), one good and one bad who vie for one man as Bette Davis in her double role in \"A Stolen Life\" (1946) and Olivia de Havilland in \"The Dark Mirror\" (1946). The good woman is portrayed as passive, sweet, emotional, and asexual whereas the bad woman is assertive, intelligent, and erotic. The conflict between them is resolved with the defeat of the bad woman. A central element of the 1980s British woman's film is the motif of escape. Woman's films allow their respective female protagonists to escape their everyday lives and their socially and sexually prescribed roles. The escape can take the form of a journey to another place such as the USSR in \"Letter to Brezhnev\" (1985) and Greece in \"Shirley Valentine\" (1989) or education as in \"Educating Rita\" (1983) and sexual initiation as in \"Wish You Were Here\" (1987).\n\nThe beginnings of the genre can be traced back to D. W. Griffith, whose one- and two-reelers \"A Flash of Light\" (1910) and \"Her Awakening\" (1911) feature the trademark narratives of repression and resistance that would later define a majority of women's films. Other predecessors of the genre include women-centered serial films such as \"The Exploits of Elaine\" (1914) and \"Ruth of the Rockies\" (1920).\n\nThe woman's film genre was particularly popular in 1930s and 1940s, reaching its zenith during World War II. The film industry of that time had an economic interest in producing such films as women were believed to comprise a majority of movie-goers. In line with this perception, many woman's films were prestigious productions which attracted some of the best stars and directors. Some film scholars suggest that the genre as a whole was well-regarded within the film industry, while others argue that the genre and term \"woman's film\" had derogatory connotations and was used by critics to dismiss certain films. \n\nProduction of women's films dropped off in the 1950s as melodrama became more male-centered and as soap operas began to appear on television. Although Hollywood continued to make films marked by some of the features and concerns of the traditional woman's film in the second half of the 20th century, the term itself disappeared in the 1960s.\n\nThe genre was revived in the early 1970s. Attempts to create modern versions of the classic woman's film, updated to take account of new social norms, include Martin Scorsese's \"Alice Doesn't Live Here Anymore\" (1974), \"An Unmarried Woman\" (1978) by Paul Mazursky, Garry Marshall's \"Beaches\" (1988), and \"Fried Green Tomatoes\" (1991) by Jon Avnet. Similarly, the 2002 films \"The Hours\" and \"Far from Heaven\" took their cues from the classic woman's film. Elements of the woman's film have reemerged in the modern horror film genre. Films such as Brian De Palma's \"Carrie\" (1976) and Ridley Scott's \"Alien\" (1979) subvert traditional representations of femininity and refuse to follow the traditional marriage plot. The female protagonists in these movies are driven by something other than romantic love.\n\nWithin British cinema, David Leland returned to the formula of the 1980s woman's film in \"The Land Girls\" (1998). The film tells the story of three young women during World War II and offers its heroines the opportunity to escape their old lives. \"Bend It Like Beckham\" (2002) emphasizes the key generic theme of female friendship and casts the heroine in a conflict between the restrictions of her traditional Sikh upbringing and her aspirations to become a football player. Lynne Ramsay's \"Morvern Callar\" is based on the woman's film tradition; a young woman escapes to Spain and pretends to be the author of her boyfriend's novel. While Morvern's journeys and transformations allow for liberation, she ends up where she started.\n\nJeanine Basinger notes that woman's films were often criticized for reinforcing conventional values, above all, the notion that women could only find happiness in love, marriage and motherhood. However, she argues that they were \"subtly subversive\". They implied that a woman could not combine a career and a happy family life, but they also offered women a glimpse of a world outside the home, where they did not sacrifice their independence for marriage, housekeeping, and childrearing. The pictures depicted women with successful careers as journalists, pilots, car company presidents, and restaurateurs. Similarly, Simmon notes that the genre offered a mixture of repression and liberation, in which repressive narratives are regularly challenged, partly via mise-en-scène and acting but also by conflicts within the narratives themselves. He further states that such resistances were present in some of the earliest woman's films and became the rule with Douglas Sirk's postwar American woman's films. Others have argued, however, that the narratives of these films offer only the repressive perspective and that viewers must read the texts \"against the grain\" to be able to find a liberating message. Critics such as Haskell have criticized the term \"woman's film\" itself. She writes: What more damning comment on the relations between men and women in America than the very notion of something called the 'woman's film'? ... A film that focuses on male relationships is not pejoratively dubbed a 'man's film' ..., but a 'psychological drama.'\"\n\nSome woman's film have been met with critical acclaim. Woman's films that were selected for preservation in the United States National Film Registry as being \"culturally, historically, or aesthetically significant\" include \"It Happened One Night\" (1934), \"Imitation of Life\" (1934), \"Jezebel\" (1938), \"Gone with the Wind\" (1939), \"The Women\" (1939), \"The Lady Eve\" (1941), \"Now, Voyager\" (1942), \"Mildred Pierce\" (1945), \"Letter from an Unknown Woman\" (1948), \"Adam's Rib\" (1949), \"All About Eve\" (1950), and \"All That Heaven Allows\" (1955).\n\n\n\n"}
