{"id": "9633913", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9633913", "title": "1966 flood of the Arno", "text": "1966 flood of the Arno\n\nThe 1966 flood of the Arno () in Florence killed 101 people and damaged or destroyed millions of masterpieces of art and rare books. It is considered the worst flood in the city's history since 1557. With the combined effort of Italian and foreign volunteers alike, or \"angeli del fango\" (\"Mud Angels\"), many of these fine works have been restored. New methods in conservation were devised and restoration laboratories established. However, even decades later, much work remains to be done.\n\nLocated in the Tuscany region of Central Italy, the Arno river is approximately long. It flows from the Mount Falterona hills of the Apennine Mountains to the Ligurian Sea, just west of Pisa. Lush vineyards and olive groves line the river's scenic course to the west, out to sea. Principally utilized for irrigation purposes, only of the river is used for navigation.\n\nThe highest flows of the river generally occur in spring and autumn of every year, when rainfall in the Apennines is at its greatest. The intensity of the 1966 flood was further increased by both the orography of the Apennines, which contributed to the high run-off rates and river discharges, and urban development. Roads, such as the Via de Calzaiuoli, served as narrow channels for floodwaters, allowing for their greater speed and destruction within the city; bridges, on the other hand, hindered river flow where it was needed, allowing water to pour over the floodplain with great force.\n\n\n\nThe flood has had a lasting impact on Florence, economically and culturally. City officials and citizens were unprepared for the storm and the widespread devastation that it caused. There were virtually no emergency measures in place, at least partially because Florence is located in an area where the frequency of flooding is relatively low. In fact, approximately 90% of the city's population were completely unaware of the imminent disaster.\n\nResidents were set to celebrate their country's World War I victory over Austria on 4 November, Armed Forces Day. In commemoration, businesses were closed and many of their employees were out of town for the public holiday. While many lives were likely spared as a result, the locked buildings greatly inhibited the salvaging of valuable materials from numerous institutions and shops, with the exception of a number of jewellery stores whose owners were warned by their nightwatchmen.\n\n5,000 families were left homeless by the storm, and 6,000 stores were forced out of business. Approximately 600,000 tons of mud, rubble and sewage severely damaged or destroyed numerous collections of books, manuscripts and fine art. In fact, it is estimated that between 3 and 4 million books and manuscripts were damaged, as well as 14,000 movable works of art.\n\nArtist Marco Sassone, in a 1969 interview, recalled the impact of the flood on Florence's residents: \"The only thing you could do was watch and be helpless. Nature was master...the women became crazy with fear. They began throwing things from the windows and screaming 'who is going to save my children?'\" It was reported that 101 people lost their lives in the flood waters.\n\n\nOthers:\n\n\nRealizing the immense wealth and importance of Florentine culture in a global context, many individuals and organizations contributed to the conservation mission, providing both funding and manpower. Art historian and professor Carlo Ludovico Ragghianti assembled a committee with Mayor Piero Bargellini as chairman to raise awareness of the needs of Florence's art and academic institutions. Members included prominent figures from around the world, representatives of their own respective institutions.\n\nA number of other international committees were formed with the intention of sponsoring various institutions in Florence:\nThe work of and contributions made by these committees were supervised by a central committee in Rome.\n\nAdditional funding came from various governments, UNESCO, and the International Committee for the Assistance of Museums, Works of Art, Libraries and Archives, among others. The city of Edinburgh (Scotland), twinned with Florence, sent practical help for the citizens in the form of double-decker buses to temporarily replace those which had been lost in the floods. When these eventually returned home, they operated with the international 'GB' registration plate still affixed to the rear; each also carried a small plaque presented by the Florentine transport authorities indicating their gratitude for the gesture made by the people of Edinburgh.\n\nCharity auctions were also organised. In a show of support for the Florentine art community, Pablo Picasso had one of his paintings, \"Recumbent Woman Reading\", auctioned off on an internationally televised programme. He donated the $105,000 it earned to restoration efforts in Italy. Similarly, Pietro Annigoni and Luciano Guarnieri donated the money they earned from selling 575 colour lithographs (depicting the events surrounding the flood and its aftermath), produced from 13 of their drawings.\n\nFlorentine native Franco Zeffirelli produced the short documentary \"\" to raise awareness of the flood. Released a month after the disaster, it reputedly raised more than $20 million for reconstruction efforts. The film was narrated in English and Italian by actor Richard Burton.\n\nWhile many institutions from around the world financially compensated employees who travelled to Italy and aided in the restoration of Florence, many others volunteered their services for absolutely no pay. Collectively, these people have been fondly referred to as \"Mud Angels\", due to their commitment to working in such deplorable conditions.\n\nMario Primicerio, the mayor of Florence from 1995 to 1999, helped celebrate the Mud Angels' (\"angeli del fango\") efforts during an anniversary celebration in 1996. Thirty years earlier, he was a professor who lent his assistance in preserving the priceless artefacts of Florence. The Angels cleaned the city of refuse, mud and oil, and retrieved works of art, books and other materials from flooded rooms; experts from around the world volunteered their time and knowledge in the conservation of the aforementioned materials.\n\nIn a 1996 interview, Primicerio offered three principal reasons as to why the Mud Angels felt compelled to help: a concern for future generations, a feeling of international unity and a pervasive sense of solidarity.\n\nThe Flood Ladies were a group of international female artists who contributed artworks to the city of Florence following the catastrophic 1966 flood of the Arno as a sign of solidarity and to help repair the psychological damage done by the flood. The group was formed in Florence, Italy in 1966. Contributors to the collection lived all over the world. In 2014 the organization Advancing Women Artist Foundation headed an effort to preserve, exhibit and acknowledge the contribution of these women.\n\nMany experts in the field of conservation, such as Peter Waters, utilised their knowledge in restoring the works of art and literature ravaged by the flood. Staff from the Central Institute of Restoration and Institute of Book Pathology, for example, volunteered their time, efforts, and expertise in this enormous undertaking. New concepts, such as \"phased conservation,\" and methods in conservation, such as mass deacidification, were conceived during this period after the flood ravaged the city of Florence.\n\nPriorities were established during the process of conserving damaged books and records, the most critical of which became the retrieval of materials from flooded rooms. After they were rescued, books and records were typically washed and disinfected. In certain cases, bindings were cut and sheets treated individually. Following a thorough cleansing, the materials were then dried in Florentine libraries, space permitting, or at locations outside of the city, such as tobacco kilns and granaries. In some circumstances, large quantities of books were covered with sawdust, as a means of drawing out moisture. When not washed prior to drying, dried mud was then scraped off the exterior of the books.\n\nOne or both of two drying techniques was applied: interleaving by hand and/or drying with the aid of domestic heaters or other mechanical equipment. Interleaving involved the placement of blotting papers within the text-block of a book and replacing them once they were fully soaked; a variety of papers were used, including mimeograph paper and green blotting paper (the latter of which ultimately caused more damage). In kilns, the humidity level was slowly lowered from ninety to forty percent. If deemed necessary, bindings were removed and dried separately. Removed pages were hung out to dry on an apparatus similar to a clothes line.\n\nFearing the spread of mold, workers completed these tasks with the greatest speed possible. After they were disinfected and dried, the items were then reassembled, restored and, if necessary, rebound. Card catalogs and in some cases, the actual books and documents were reproduced by reprinting on early presses, photocopying, or copying by hand.\nInitially the transportation of large numbers of books to other institutes (to repair and rebind) was considered, but decided against on logistical grounds. Within six months of the flood, the National Library of Florence had 144 workers on hand: three binders, eight binder trainees, two librarians, forty-two workmen, eighty-one student volunteers and eight other library staff members.\n\nTogether they devised a logical and efficient method of book repair, involving nine separate and clearly defined steps:\n\n\nThis methodical nine-part system enabled workers to process between seventy and a hundred books a day.\n\nAfter the Florence flood, the Biblioteca Nazionale Centrale was not allowed to put books back into the lower levels.\n\nMany panel paintings were critically damaged as a result of water saturating their wood, causing the glue and gesso, which compose the priming layer, to dissolve. Consequently, the paintings' colours dissolved as well. In addition, the moisture caused paintings to buckle and crack or develop blisters, and the paint to chip and fall. Actions were taken to stabilize the problem by applying rice paper to the affected paintings and storing them in cool, stable environments where humidity was slowly decreased. In extreme cases, the paint layer was extracted from the wood and gesso and then reapplied to a new support. Nystatin, an antifungal, was sprayed on the wood to prevent mold from growing. Treatment facilities were established at locations such as the Boboli Garden Lemon-House, where over two hundred of these panel paintings were restored.\n\nSimilar measures were necessary to conserve canvas paintings. First, an original canvas was relined and gauze applied to the painted surface, which was then ironed. This process is referred to as the \"rintelatura\", or \"new canvas\" method. Relatively minor surface work was often completed with a variety of solvents and/or types of resin.\n\nFrescoes demanded more complicated treatment. Normally water, once it evaporates, will leave a layer of residual salt on the surface of the wall that absorbed it. In some instances, the resultant efflorescence obscured painted images. In other cases, the impermeability of the fresco plaster caused the salt to become trapped beneath the surface, causing bubbles to form and erupt, and the paint to fall. The adhesion of the plaster to the wall was often also seriously compromised. A fresco could only be detached when fully dry. To dry a fresco, workers cut narrow tunnels beneath it, in which heaters were placed to draw out moisture from below (instead of outwards, which would have further damaged the paintings). Within a few days, the fresco was ready to be detached.\n\nFuel oil, which coated many painted works of art, was removed by using Japanese tissue paper to apply a solvent, which dissolved the tar. An absorbent, such as talcum powder, was then distributed on the tissue paper.\n\nIt became imperative to clean sculpture immediately, before it fully absorbed the oil. Flaking sculpture was sprayed with a silicate mixture, while wooden pieces were treated with insecticides and toxic gases to kill insects and prevent future infestation. Weaponry, like firearms and swords, were taken apart, cleaned with paraffin, and finally lubricated to prevent future rusting.\n\nBronze objects were kept in dehumidification chambers for a few weeks and cleaned with distilled water or polished. For more severely damaged pieces, experts completed \"depth cleaning,\" which entailed the use of small drills and vacuuming. Similar measures were taken with gold. Broken objects were reassembled using photographs and other retrieved documentation.\n\nThe disastrous results of the flood established an international awareness of the need for preservation and conservation education and facilities. In the United States, for example, it is no coincidence that the National Historic Preservation Act was passed in 1966. During the next twenty years:\nA significant amount of restorative work remains to be done in Florence. Due to a lack of awareness, funding, and manpower, a great number of works of art and books lie in storage, dirty and damaged. Christopher Clarkson, noted conservator, called attention to this problem in a 2007 letter, stating that the National Library still has a \"warehouse\" full of books to be repaired and bound; many others need cleaning or reassembling. According to a 1993 report, approximately 25% of the 80,000 items belonging to the Magliabecchi and Palatino collections had not been fully restored in the nearly thirty years since the flood. The number of conservators that work at the library presently is only about a tenth of the amount that worked there immediately after the flood.\n\nRegional officials in Tuscany are responsible for organizing a massive project, the purpose of which is to not only protect the area from future flooding but to maintain high water quality and effectively utilize water resources.\n\nWork commenced in 1984, with the construction of the Bilancino Dam, near Florence. The Sieve tributary and spillway at Pontedera are among other developments. The national government has funded a majority of these various subprojects, with the city of Florence being the primary recipient of the money.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4238052", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4238052", "title": "1981 world oil market chronology", "text": "1981 world oil market chronology\n\n\"Saudis flood market with inexpensive oil in 1981, forcing unprecedented price cuts by OPEC members.\"\n|-\n"}
{"id": "56140109", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56140109", "title": "3M Teaching Fellow", "text": "3M Teaching Fellow\n\nThe 3M Teaching Fellow in Higher Education is a Canadian award for excellence for teaching at the university level.\n"}
{"id": "1994732", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1994732", "title": "A Haunted House and Other Short Stories", "text": "A Haunted House and Other Short Stories\n\nA Haunted House is a 1944 collection of 18 short stories by Virginia Woolf. It was produced by her husband Leonard Woolf after her death although in the foreword he states that they had discussed its production together.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46733719", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46733719", "title": "Alice Harris (linguist)", "text": "Alice Harris (linguist)\n\nAlice Carmichael Harris (born November 23, 1947) is an American linguist. She is currently Professor of Linguistics at the University of Massachusetts Amherst, where she has been employed since 2009.\n\nCiting an early interest in the “systematic, almost mathematical aspects of languages,” Harris began investigating ergativity in graduate school, and in doing so began to study the Georgian language. She was one of the first Americans allowed to do research in the Republic of Georgia when it was still part of the Soviet Union. She has continued to work in this region, looking at different characteristics of the languages Georgian, Laz, Svan, Mingrelian, Udi, and Batsbi. Harris also has a strong interest in promoting the larger topic of documenting endangered languages. She played a key role in establishing the Documenting Endangered Languages (DEL) Program, a granting sub-unit that is part of the National Science Foundation.\n\nHarris received her Ph.D. in Linguistics from Harvard University in 1976 after studying at Randolph-Macon Women's College, the University of Glasgow and the University of Essex.\n\nShe taught at Vanderbilt University from 1979-2002, serving as the department chair of Germanic and Slavic Languages there from 1993-2002. She was Professor of Linguistics at SUNY Stony Brook from 2002-2009.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2107053", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2107053", "title": "American Association for Australian Literary Studies", "text": "American Association for Australian Literary Studies\n\nThe American Association for Australasian Literary Studies (AAALS) is an organization of scholars in North America that studies and promotes research in the literature of Australia and New Zealand. Its activities are partially funded by the Literature Fund of the Australia Council for the Arts. It publishes the journal \"Antipodes, A Global Journal of Australian/NZ Literature\" and holds an annual conference, rotated between locations in the United States and Canada. The most recent AAALS conferences were held at Harvard University in 2005; at McGill University in 2006; at Georgetown University in 2007, at the University of Texas in 2008; in Washington, DC in 2010, Fort Worth, TX in 2011, Toronto 2012, Washington DC (2013), Portland, Oregon (2014), Texas Christian University in Fort Worth, TX (2015), and Seattle (2016). The current President is Nathanael O'Reilly of Texas Christian University; Eva Rueschmann of Hampshire College serves as Vice-President. The organization was founded in 1986 by Robert L. Ross (1934-2005) and has since then assumed an increasing international profile. Featured guest speakers have included Peter Carey, David Malouf, Lily Brett, John Tranter, Frank Moorhouse, Thomas Keneally, Alan Wearne, Mudrooroo, Kate Grenville, Jeanine Leane, Lyn McCredden, David Carter, Janette Turner Hospital and John Kinsella. In 1996 the AAALS became an Allied Organization of the Modern Language Association, at which it holds sessions annually. The official scholarly journal of the AAALS is entitled Antipodes. \"Antipodes\" appears twice a year, each issue containing ten or so academic articles, plus poems, short stories, and book reviews. The journal always features a cover image by an Australian or New Zealand artist. The journal was founded in 1987 by Robert L. Ross and edited by Nicholas Birns from 2001 to 2018; Belinda Wheeler will become Editor with the December 2018 issue. \"Antipodes\" is published by Wayne State University Press.<ref name=\"Wayne State University Press - Antipodes: A Global Journal of Australian/New Zealand Literature\"></ref> Recent special issue topics have been: Australia and Asia, Australia and Latin America, pedagogy and Australian/NZ literature, and the theme of fear in Australian literature.\n\n"}
{"id": "20860737", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20860737", "title": "Antiquarian science books", "text": "Antiquarian science books\n\nAntiquarian science books are original historical works (e.g., books or technical papers) concerning science, mathematics and sometimes engineering. \nThese books are important primary references for the study of the history of science and technology, they can provide valuable insights into the historical development of the various fields of scientific inquiry (History of science, History of mathematics, etc.)\n\nThe landmark are significant first (or early) editions typically worth hundreds or thousands of dollars (prices may vary widely based on condition, etc.). \nReprints of these books are often available, for example from Great Books of the Western World, Dover Publications or Google Books.\n\nIncunabula are extremely rare and valuable, but as the \"scientific revolution\" is only taken to have started around the 1540s, such works of Renaissance literature (including alchemy, Renaissance magic, etc.) are not usually included under the notion of \"scientific\" literature. Printed originals of the beginning scientific revolution thus date to the 1540s or later, notably beginning with the original publication of Copernican heliocentrism. Nicolaus Copernicus' \"De revolutionibus orbium coelestium\" of 1543 sold for more than US$2 million at auctions.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2623568", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2623568", "title": "Antiques restoration", "text": "Antiques restoration\n\nAntiques restoration is restoring an antique or work of art to a like-new condition, or preserving an antique or work of art against further deterioration as in conservation.\n\nRestoration can be as simple as light cleaning to remove disfiguring dirt or grime, such as on the surface of a painting, or it may include near complete rebuilding or replacement, as might be the case with old automobiles or furniture. Often done in preparation for sale, or by a collector upon acquiring a new piece, the main goal of restoration is to \"restore\" the original appearance or functionality of a piece.\n\nThere is a lot of difference between restoring and repairing. Functionality may be achieved by a repair, but restoring an item properly is an art-form. Finishes might/may be stripped and redone, but it is essential that the original patination is retained, if possible. Stripping is only done as a last resort, especially with antique furniture. Engines might be rebuilt with new parts as necessary, or holes in a silver pot might/may be patched. While some of these practices are frowned on by many museums, scholars, and other experts, for many people there is little value in an antique that is unusable or not able to be displayed. Poor restoration is the bane of a trained restorer. Working on someone else's bad repair is the worst possible situation. Often with antique restoration, there are also other issues as well. For example, some collectors value \"patina\", or also want an item to still reflect an aesthetic that shows its age- in this respect, an \"over restored\" item can actually take away from its value than if nothing has been done to the item at all. Therefore, restoration of valuable objects should always be left to professionals who are sensitive to all of the issues, ensuring that a piece retains or increases its value after restoration.\n\nOriginal artwork can sustain all sorts of damage over its lifetime. Conservatorshave an obligation to the artwork to recommend the best techniques for preserving it for future generations.\n\nRestorers are often trained craftspersons, such as furniture makers, mechanics, or metalsmiths. Some have years of experience in their fields, whereas others are self-taught volunteers. Many of the antique aircraft around the United States are restored by trained aircraft engineers assisted by volunteers, some of whom are men who flew those same aircraft years ago.\n\nGiven that a single piece of furniture may include wood, glass, inlay, leather and fabric, antique restoration encompasses several skills. Caldararo estimates that 90 percent of USA restorers are self-taught, or cobble together their skills from idiosyncratic backgrounds.\n\n\"French Polishing\" was the industry standard in Europe during the 18th and 19th centuries, pushed aside by the efficient advantage of modern methods in the Industrial Revolution. Lacquers and spray systems replaced the original French polish finish, which is impractical for mass furniture production due to the labor-intensive process of application. As the desire for antiques was not idle, neither was the need for them to be appropriately restored; thus, the trade has been kept alive by a thread.\n\n\nOn the other extreme, though most bad old pieces were thrown away long ago, there are pieces that, because of their original design or workmanship or because of damage, are not worth restoring but that are made of re-usable materials such as hard wood, amber, pewter or ivory. As the number of people increases and the number of trees and other natural products in the world decreases, wood and other materials becomes more scarce. So the fact that the material was not worth doing a good job with when an item was made does not mean that the material should be discarded along with the object now.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19233572", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19233572", "title": "Asim Peco", "text": "Asim Peco\n\nAsim Peco (; 24 May 1927 – 7 December 2011) was a renowned Bosnian linguist, academician, professor, author and editor.\n\nPeco's work is credited for the development of Bosnian and Herzegovinian linguistics. His areas of specialization include the dialectology of Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia, namely the Štokavian and Torlakian dialects. He wrote books on the speeches of eastern and central Herzegovina, speeches of western Herzegovina, Ikavian-Štokavian dialects of Bosnia and Turkish loan words into them.\n\nHis work is cited or referenced by many. For example, his research on eastern Bosnian dialect was discussed at the United Nations' International Criminal Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia (ICTY).\n\nPeco was born in the village of Ortiješ, near Mostar, Bosnia and Herzegovina to Jusuf and Hajrija Peco. His brother, Džemal Peco, was a teacher.\n\nAfter graduating \"Viša pedagoška škola\" high school in Sarajevo, Peco went to Belgrade where he enrolled the University of Belgrade Faculty of Philology, which was a department within the Faculty of Philosophy at the time. His 1958 PhD dissertation was entitled \"Govor istočne Hercegovine\" (\"The speech of eastern Herzegovina\"). Already in high school Peco showed interest in scientific research.\n\nAfter completing his education at the University of Belgrade, Peco became a regular professor of Philology at the university, where he was elected several times as a head of the department for Serbo-Croatian and South Slavic languages. He was a mentor for numerous M.A. and Ph.D. theses, and a participant to numerous domestic and international conferences.\n\nHe was a Member and contributor of the Academy of Sciences and Arts of Bosnia and Herzegovina since 1978, and a Corresponding (Foreign) Member of the Montenegrin Academy of Sciences and Arts since 2003. Peco edited journal \"Bosanskohercegovački dijalektološki zbornik\" (\"Bosnian-Herzegovinian dialectological miscellany\") for many years, and served a member of editing boards of many other journals.\n\nIn 1963, at the Fifth International Congress of Slavists held in Sofia, Bulgaria, Peco complained about some of the participants, stating:\n\n\"...individual members of the delegation of the host country\" in the Linguistic section \"attempted to deny the right to independence of the Macedonian language, a language which possesses both its own literature, and its own grammar... True, such opinions are not new. They are a reflection of old, non-Marxist theories, long ago trampled into oblivion by time. Fortunately, such concepts were not also the opinion of the [Bulgarian] delegation as a whole. Besides, this type of formulation was not based on fact, which would be difficult to deny. On the contrary, the baselessness of such formulations was easy to prove even without referring to great authorities, and without referring to the basic principles of Marxist science.\"\nHe was also a presenter at the 1985 Yugoslav Onomastics Conference, a contributor to the Tenth International Committee for Phonetics and Phonology of Slavonic Languages Conference in 1987, and editor of the magazine \"Bosanskohercegovački Dijalektološki Anthology\".\n\nProfessor Peco retired from the University of Belgrade in 1992, and made his home in Belgrade until his death in 2011.\n\nAmongst his awards, Peco received the \"Veselin Masleša Award\" in 1986 in Sarajevo, \"14 februar award\" in Mostar in 1986, and the \"Vuk Award\" in 1990 in Belgrade.\n\nPeco is the first academic in Bosnia and Herzegovina that has had published collected works after the Yugoslav wars. The publisher is the Bosnian Philological Society, and co-publishers are the Academy of Sciences and Arts of Bosnia and Herzegovia and \"Bemust\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55837051", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55837051", "title": "Books in Spain", "text": "Books in Spain\n\nIn 2018, two firms in Spain ranked among the world's biggest publishers of books in terms of revenue: Grupo Planeta and Grupo Santillana. In 2013, there were 524,213 titles in print in Spain, including 76,434 new titles.\n\n\"The first Spanish press was set up in 1473 at Valencia, where the German trading company of Ravensburg had an important base... Publishing flourished in the early period at Barcelona, Burgos, Zaragoza, Seville, and the university towns of Salamanca and Alcalá de Henares.\" The Instituto Nacional del Libro Español (National Book Institute) formed in 1941. As of 2004 Spain had some 2,000+ book publishers in the private sector, including , and Prisa. As of 2013 there were 809 publishing enterprises.\n\nThe United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization designated Madrid the 2001 World Book Capital.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44642927", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44642927", "title": "Club of great powers", "text": "Club of great powers\n\nThe Great Powers' Club or The Club of Great Powers is a term used by historians to refer to a collection of empires in the ancient Near East and Egypt between 1500-1100 BC, or the Late Bronze Age. These powers were Assyria, Babylon, Egyptian Empire, Hittite Empire, and Mitanni, viz. the major powers in Mesopotamia, the Levant and Anatolia.\n\nThis period saw a systematic rise and fall of civilizations. Many civilizations went through the same cycle of creation, fluorescence, and fall of centralized states which include: the middle Elamite kingdom in western Iran, Kassite Babylonia in southern Mesopotamia, the Hittite new kingdom in Anatolia, and the new kingdom Egypt. While they did not all rise to the equal amount of power and influence at the same time, they did organize and participate in an international system of diplomacy, trade, and culture.\n\nAs states went through cycles of growth and expansion, usually one or two states were more powerful than the rest, and a political hierarchy was naturally formed, with each state knowing their respective place. As leaders rose to power in respective states throughout the regions and although they wanted to expand their empire and grow their power, they realized the immense benefits of diplomacy. A system of trade, not of the state’s resources, but of the properties of the kings, was initiated.\n\nStates interacted through letters, written in Akkadian, the international language of diplomacy, and through oral messages. Marriages were a sure way to strengthen diplomatic ties and peace. One exception to this system was Egypt, which never gave royal women, but happily accepted the royal women of other states. Another commonly traded item was gifts. Each state had a specialty in what they could produce in their region. Egypt mined gold, Lebanon logged cedars, murex shells valued for their dye came from Northern Africa, Canaan specialized in jewelry, and Cyprus had its glass, beads of gold, faience, and agate.\n\nOne of the main primary sources we have of this Club of Great Powers comes from the Amarna letters in Egypt. King Akhenaten moved the capital of Egypt to Amarna and there kept the correspondence of him and his father with the rest of the members of the Club of Great Powers. A collection of 350 clay tablets was found there. The vast majority of the letters were written to Egypt’s vassals in the Syria-Palestine region, and a minority are written to kings whom the Egyptians kings considered equal. They were the kings of Babylonia, Assyria, Mittani, Hatti, Alashiya (on Cyprus), and Arzawa (in south-west Anatolia). Collections of letters on clay tablets are also found throughout the Near East.\n"}
{"id": "1744188", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1744188", "title": "Communist Workers' Party – For Peace and Socialism", "text": "Communist Workers' Party – For Peace and Socialism\n\nCommunist Workers' Party – For Peace and Socialism (, KTP) is a political party in Finland. It was founded in 1988 to secure the existence of an independent Marxist-Leninist party. Since its founding, it has not gained seats in the parliament, and as a result, has been removed from the party register and re-registered three times.\n\nThe Finnish Communist movement was split in the mid-1980s after years of infighting. Those expelled from the Communist Party of Finland (SKP) formed the Communist Party of Finland (Unity) (SKPy) which, however, itself soon split into different factions. KTP was founded in 1988 by one part of Finnish Communists who thought the SKPy had ventured too far from the principles of Marxism-Leninism. The final decision to found a new registered Communist party was made in the autumn 1987 seminar held at Matinkylä. The Marxist-Leninists behind the project felt themselves neglected since the Dipoli congress of the SKPy in 1986. Many of the KTP cadres came from the (expelled) Uusimaa district of the SKP which, since the late 1970s, had had its disputes with the opposition of the SKP led by the Tiedonantaja society.\n\nIn 2002 the KTP split over question of alliances possible for a Communist party. The Central Committee of the KTP rejected after voting (18–9) a proposed membership in a new (electoral) party, Forces for Change in Finland (MVS), in which clearly right-wing elements were also going to participate. MVS was supported especially by the Helsinki district organization of the KTP which then decided to enter the MVS without their comrades. KTP answered by expelling the above-mentioned organization and many leading members of the party, including Heikki Männikkö (the party secretary), Reijo Katajaranta (the editor-in-chief of the KTP organ) and Pekka Tiainen (the former presidential candidate in 1994), had to go. The Communists expelled then found their own organization, which was at first called plainly \"Communists\", but later changed to League of Communists (or Communist League). The KTP has avoided contacts to their ex-members.\n\nThe KTP got some unexpected nationwide, and even international, publicity ahead the local elections in 2004 when the Turku and Raisio branches of the party made an electoral alliance with the far-right racist Finnish People's Blue-whites (SKS). The party leadership reacted strongly and condemned the manoeuvres. The alliances were, however, already signed and the KTP candidates stood in the two west coast cities with no success, although the KTP didn't advertise their rebel candidates. The man behind the alliances, Esko Luukkonen, was discharged from all party responsibilities, and he (and the KTP Turku district organization) later joined the League of Communists.\n\nThe founders of the KTP were former supporters of the SKP opposition and as such came from the brezhnevist tradition of Marxism-Leninism. The critique of the late Soviet Union has been, however, included in the party ideology from the beginning. In 1998, for example, the KTP announced that the estimations made on the nature of the era, during the 1970s and the 1980s, were no longer realistic or correct. Yet the Marxism-Leninism of the KTP is far from Eurocommunism. The party leaders may quote Joseph Stalin and traditional Leninist rhetoric is required.\n\nThe existence of an independent Communist party, which is not buried in any unprincipled coalition, has always been one of the central political issues in the KTP. Markus Kainulainen, probably the best known politician in the KTP, was one of those who, already in 1969, in the then SKP, was in favor of a new party unlike the majority of the party opposition. In the 1980s, the KTP used to criticise the SKPy for not officially registering the party.\n\nThe KTP is strictly against the European Union, the Euro currency and Finland's participation in these capitalist formations. The party has consistently boycotted the elections of European Parliament.\n\nThe KTP wholeheartedly supports the Democratic People's Republic of Korea (DPRK) and its current leadership. The party has published writings of Kim Jong-Il and many members of the KTP are actively participating in The Society for the Study of the \"Juche\" Idea.\n\nEvery year, the KTP holds its party congresses in which the official delegates choose the members of the important Central Committee. Little change usually happens and Hannu Harju has led the party since the 1997 congress. He was preceded by Timo Lahdenmäki.\n\nThe KTP has been a small party all its life and it currently has some 200 members. The candidates of the KTP in the parliamentary elections have failed to get the attention of voters and the party has managed to gather only a few thousand votes. The KTP has some local strongholds, like the city of Kemi in northern Finland where Pirkko Ezewuzie is the lone KTP councillor. The party, with its own lists, has also participated in the elections of some trade unions and cooperatives.\n\nThe KTP has international contacts even though the party is not a member of any international organization. The Russian Communist Workers' Party – Revolutionary Party of Communists has warm relations with the KTP as well as the Nordic Communist Party of Sweden (SKP), Communist Party in Denmark (KPiD) and Communist Party of Norway (NKP).\n\n\"Työkansan Sanomat\" (TKS), which appears fifteen times a year, is the organ of the KTP. The current editor-in-chief of TKS is Hannu Tuominen. In local (Helsinki area) Lähiradio radio station the KTP has a weekly program called \"Työväen puolituntinen\".\n"}
{"id": "2956755", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2956755", "title": "Curse of Rocky Colavito", "text": "Curse of Rocky Colavito\n\nThe Curse of Rocky Colavito is a phenomenon that supposedly prevents the Cleveland Indians Major League Baseball (MLB) franchise from winning, be it the World Series, the American League (AL) pennant, reaching postseason play, or even getting into a pennant race. Its origin is traced back to the unpopular trade of right fielder Rocky Colavito to the Detroit Tigers for Harvey Kuenn in 1960. It was not claimed that Colavito placed the curse, and he has denied doing so. It is one of several curses believed to have stricken the city of Cleveland's major sports franchises for decades.\n\nThe Indians won the American League championship in 1995, 1997, and 2016, but lost all three World Series.\n\nOn April 17, 1960, the Cleveland Indians traded Rocky Colavito to the Detroit Tigers for Harvey Kuenn. This trade was unique because Colavito was 1959's American League home run champion, with 42, while Kuenn hit .353 as the A.L. batting champion. Fans in Cleveland were outraged by what they saw as the betrayal by the Indians' general manager, Frank Lane. In only two years with the Indians, Lane had taken a mostly successful 40-man roster and had traded away every player he had inherited.\n\nDetroit fans were mostly happy about the trade.\n\nThe idea of the curse was first presented in print by Terry Pluto, who had previously covered the Indians for \"The Plain Dealer\". In his 1994 book, \"The Curse of Rocky Colavito: A Loving Look at a 33-Year Slump\", Pluto suggested that the trade, made by Indians general manager Frank Lane to blunt Colavito's popularity and end his salary demands, led to a 33-season stretch where the Indians did not finish the season within 11 games of first place, from 1960 to . By 1994, the team had not won a pennant since , or a World Series since 1948.\n\nIn \"The Curse of Rocky Colavito\", Pluto writes of many of the misfortunes that struck the Indians following the Colavito trade:\n\n\nSince the book's publication in 1994, Pluto has written two sequels: \"Burying the Curse\" in 1995 and \"Our Tribe\" in 1999, the latter insisting that the curse was still in place.\n\nDespite the \"evidence\" of a curse on the team, Colavito has denied ever placing one.\n\nOn the day of the Colavito trade, the Indians played the Chicago White Sox in an exhibition game at 64-year-old Russwood Park in Memphis, Tennessee. Colavito hit a home run in the second inning, and reporters in the press box were informed of the trade shortly thereafter. Four hours after the game ended, Russwood Park - constructed primarily of wood in 1896 - was destroyed in a five-alarm fire.\n\nPrior to the publication of Pluto's book \"The Curse of Rocky Colavito\", there had been another explanation for the Indians' difficulties, one that came after the 1954 World Series but preceded the 1960 Colavito trade. The Indians fired manager Bobby Bragan in . According to the story, although he always denied it, Bragan walked out to the pitcher's mound at Cleveland Municipal Stadium and placed a curse on the Indians, saying they would never win another pennant.\n\nIn , the year Pluto's book was published, the Indians moved out of aging Municipal Stadium and opened what was then Jacobs Field. They were just one game behind the White Sox in the newly created American League (AL) Central division when a strike put an end to the season. Despite the abrupt end, this was the first time the Indians had genuinely been in a pennant race since 1959, Colavito's last season before being traded away.\n\nIn the years since they moved out of Municipal Stadium the Indians have enjoyed success in the regular season, winning nine division titles (including five in a row from 1995-1999) and three American League pennants. But disappointing failures in the post-season have demonstrated to believers that a curse may still loom over the ballclub.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1835008", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1835008", "title": "Discobolus", "text": "Discobolus\n\nThe Discobolus of Myron (\"discus thrower\", , \"Diskobólos\") is a Greek sculpture completed at the start of the Classical Period, figuring a youthful ancient Greek athlete throwing discus, circa 460–450 BC. The original Greek bronze is lost but the work is known through numerous Roman copies, both full-scale ones in marble, which was cheaper than bronze, such as the first to be recovered, the \"Palombara Discobolus\", and smaller scaled versions in bronze.\n\nA discus thrower depicted is about to release his throw: \"by sheer intelligence\", Kenneth Clark observed in \"The Nude\", \"Myron has created the enduring pattern of athletic energy. He has taken a moment of action so transitory that students of athletics still debate if it is feasible, and he has given it the completeness of a cameo.\" The moment thus captured in the statue is an example of \"rhythmos\", harmony and balance. Myron is often credited with being the first sculptor to master this style. Naturally, as always in Greek athletics, the \"Discobolus\" is completely nude. His pose is said to be unnatural to a human, and today considered a rather inefficient way to throw the discus. Also there is very little emotion shown in the discus thrower's face, and \"to a modern eye, it may seem that Myron's desire for perfection has made him suppress too rigorously the sense of strain in the individual muscles,\" Clark observes. The other trademark of Myron embodied in this sculpture is how well the body is proportioned, the \"symmetria\".\n\nThe potential energy expressed in this sculpture's tightly wound pose, expressing the moment of stasis just before the release, is an example of the advancement of Classical sculpture from Archaic. The torso shows no muscular strain, however, even though the limbs are outflung.\n\nMyron's \"Discobolus\" was long known from descriptions, such as the dialogue in Lucian of Samosata's work \"Philopseudes\":\n\nPrior to this statue's discovery the term \"Discobolus\" had been applied in the 17th and 18th centuries to a standing figure holding a discus, a \"Discophoros\", which Ennio Quirino Visconti identified as the \"Discobolus\" of Naukydes of Argos, mentioned by Pliny (Haskell and Penny 1981:200).\n\nThe \"Discobolus Palombara\", the first copy of this famous sculpture to have been discovered, was found in 1781. It is a 1st-century AD copy of Myron's original bronze. Following its discovery at a Roman property of the Massimo family, the Villa Palombara on the Esquiline Hill, it was initially restored by Giuseppe Angelini; the Massimi installed it initially in their Palazzo Massimo alle Colonne and then at Palazzo Lancellotti. The Italian archaeologist Giovanni Battista Visconti identified the sculpture as a copy from the original of Myron. It was instantly famous, though the Massimo jealously guarded access to it (Haskell and Penny 1981:200).\n\nIn 1937 Adolf Hitler negotiated to buy it, and eventually succeeded in 1938, when Galeazzo Ciano, Minister of Foreign Affairs, sold it to him for five million lire, over the protests of Giuseppe Bottai, Minister of Education, and the scholarly community. It was shipped by rail to Munich and displayed in the Glyptothek; it was returned in 1948. It is now in the National Museum of Rome, displayed at the Palazzo Massimo.\n\nAfter the discovery of the \"Discobolus Palombara\" a second notable \"Discobolus\" was excavated, at Hadrian's Villa in 1790, and was purchased by the English antiquary and art dealer established in Rome, Thomas Jenkins, at public auction in 1792. (Another example, also found at Tivoli at this date, was acquired by the Vatican Museums.) The English connoisseur Charles Townley paid Jenkins £400 for the statue, which arrived at the semi-public gallery Townley commissioned in Park Street, London, in 1794. The head was wrongly restored, as Richard Payne Knight soon pointed out, but Townley was convinced his was the original and better copy.\n\nIt was bought for the British Museum, with the rest of Townley's marbles, in July 1805.\n\nOther Roman copies in marble have been recovered, and torsos that were already known in the 17th century but that had been wrongly restored and completed, have since been identified as further repetitions after Myron's model. For one such example, in the early 18th century Pierre-Étienne Monnot restored a torso that is now recognized as an example of Myron's \"Discobolus\" as a \"Wounded Gladiator\" who supports himself on his arm as he sinks to the ground; the completed sculpture was donated before 1734 by Pope Clement XII to the Capitoline Museums, where it remains.\n\nYet another copy was discovered in 1906 in the ruins of a Roman villa at Tor Paterno in the former royal estate of Castel Porziano, now also conserved in the Museo Nazionale Romano.\n\nIn the 19th century plaster copies of the Discobolos could be found in many large academic collections, now mostly dispersed.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "390698", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=390698", "title": "Gilding", "text": "Gilding\n\nGilding is any decorative technique for applying a very thin coating of gold to solid surfaces such as metal (much the most common), wood, porcelain, or stone. A gilded object is also described as \"gilt\". Where metal is gilded, it was traditionally silver in the West, to make silver-gilt (or \"vermeil\") objects, but gilt-bronze is commonly used in China, and also called ormolu if it is Western. Methods of gilding include hand application and gluing, typically of gold leaf, chemical gilding, and electroplating, the last also called gold plating. Parcel-gilt (partial gilt) objects are only gilded over part of their surfaces. This may mean that all of the inside, and none of the outside, of a chalice or similar vessel is gilded, or that patterns or images are made up by using a combination of gilt and ungilted areas.\n\nGilding gives an object a gold appearance at a fraction of the cost of creating a solid gold object. In addition, a solid gold piece would often be too soft or too heavy for practical use. A gilt surface also does not tarnish as silver does.\n\nHerodotus mentions that the Egyptians gilded wood and metals, and many such objects have been excavated. Certain Ancient Greek statues of great prestige were chryselephantine, i.e., made of gold (for the clothing) and ivory (for the flesh); these however, were constructed with sheets of gold over a timber framework, not gilded. Extensive ornamental gilding was also used in the ceiling coffers of the Propylaea. Pliny the Elder informs us that the first gilding seen at Rome was after the destruction of Carthage, under the censorship of Lucius Mummius, when the Romans began to gild the ceilings of their temples and palaces, the Capitol being the first place on which this process was used. But he adds that luxury advanced on them so rapidly that in very little time you might see all, even private and poor people, gild the walls, vaults, and other parts of their dwellings. Owing to the comparative thickness of the gold leaf used in ancient gilding, the traces of it that remain are remarkably brilliant and solid. Fire-gilding of metal goes back at least to the 4th century BC, and was known to Pliny (33,20,64–5), Vitruvius (8,8,4) and in the Early Mediaeval period to Theophilus (De Diversis Artibus Book III).\n\nIn Europe, silver-gilt has always been more common than gilt-bronze, but in China the opposite has been the case. The ancient Chinese also developed the gilding of porcelain, which was later taken up by the French and other European potters.\n\nModern gilding is applied to numerous and diverse surfaces and by various processes; those used in modern technology are described in gold plating. More traditional techniques still form an important part of framemaking and are sometimes still employed in general woodworking, cabinet-work, decorative painting and interior decoration, bookbinding, and ornamental leather work, and in the decoration of pottery, porcelain, and glass.\n\nMechanical gilding includes all the operations in which gold leaf is prepared, and the processes to mechanically attach the gold onto surfaces. The techniques include burnishing, water gilding and oil-gilding used by wood carvers and gilders; and the gilding operations of the house decorator, sign painter, bookbinder, the paper stainer and several others.\n\nPolished iron, steel and other metals are gilded mechanically by applying gold leaf to the metallic surface at a temperature just under red-hot, pressing the leaf on with a burnisher, then reheating when additional leaf may be laid on. The process is completed by cold burnishing.\n\n\"Overlaying\" or folding or hammering on gold foil or gold leaf is the simplest and most ancient method, and is mentioned in Homer's Odyssey (Bk vi, 232) and the Old Testament. The \"Ram in a Thicket\" of about 2600–2400 BCE from Ur uses this technique on wood, with a thin layer of bitumen underneath to help adhesion.\n\nThe next advances involved two simple processes. The first involves gold leaf, which is gold that is hammered or cut into very thin sheets. Gold leaf is often thinner than standard paper today, and when held to the light is semi-transparent. In ancient times it was typically about ten times thicker than today, and perhaps half that in the Middle Ages.\n\nIf gilding on canvas or on wood, the surface was often first coated with gesso. \"Gesso\" is a substance made of finely ground gypsum or chalk mixed with glue. Once the coating of gesso had been applied, allowed to dry, and smoothed, it was re-wet with a sizing made of rabbit-skin glue and water (\"water gilding\", which allows the surface to be subsequently burnished to a mirror-like finish) or boiled linseed oil mixed with litharge (\"oil gilding\", which does not) and the gold leaf was layered on and left to dry. Those gilding on canvas and parchment also sometimes employed stiffly-beaten egg whites (\"glair\"), gum, and/or Armenian bole as sizing, though egg whites and gum both become brittle over time, causing the gold leaf to crack and detach, and so honey was sometimes added to make them more flexible.\n\nOther gilding processes involved using the gold as pigment in paint: the artist ground the gold into a fine powder and mixed it with a binder. Then the gold was applied in the same way as with any paint. Sometimes, after either gold-leafing or gold-painting, the artist would heat the piece enough to melt the gold slightly, ensuring an even coat. These techniques remained the only alternatives for materials like wood, leather, the vellum pages of illuminated manuscripts, and gilt-edged stock.\n\nChemical gilding embraces those processes in which the gold is at some stage of chemical combination. These include:\n\nIn this process the gold is obtained in a state of extremely fine division, and applied by mechanical means. Cold gilding on silver is performed by a solution of gold in aqua regia, applied by dipping a linen rag into the solution, burning it, and rubbing the black and heavy ashes on the silver with the finger or a piece of leather or cork.\n\n\"Wet gilding\" is effected by means of a dilute solution of gold(III) chloride in aqua regia with twice its quantity of ether. The liquids are agitated and allowed to rest, to allow the ether to separate and float on the surface of the acid. The whole mixture is then poured into a separating funnel with a small aperture, and allowed to rest for some time, when the acid is run off from below and the gold dissolved in ether separated. The ether will be found to have taken up all the gold from the acid, and may be used for gilding iron or steel, for which purpose the metal is polished with fine emery and spirits of wine. The ether is then applied with a small brush, and as it evaporates it deposits the gold, which can now be heated and polished. For small delicate figures, a pen or a fine brush may be used for laying on the ether solution. The gold(III) chloride can also be dissolved in water in electroless plating wherein the gold is slowly reduced out of solution onto the surface to be gilded. When this technique is used on the second surface of glass and backed with silver, it is known as \"Angel gilding\".\n\n\"Fire-gilding\" or \"Wash-gilding\" is a process by which an amalgam of gold is applied to metallic surfaces, the mercury being subsequently volatilized, leaving a film of gold or an amalgam containing 13 to 16% mercury. In the preparation of the amalgam, the gold must first be reduced to thin plates or grains, which are heated red-hot, and thrown into previously heated mercury, until it begins to smoke. When the mixture is stirred with an iron rod, the gold is totally absorbed. The proportion of mercury to gold is generally six or eight to one. When the amalgam is cold, it is squeezed through chamois leather to separate the superfluous mercury; the gold, with about twice its weight of mercury, remains behind, forming a yellowish silvery mass with the consistency of butter.\n\nWhen the metal to be gilded is wrought or chased, it ought to be covered with mercury before the amalgam is applied, that this may be more easily spread; but when the surface of the metal is plain, the amalgam may be applied to it directly. When no such preparation is applied, the surface to be gilded is simply bitten and cleaned with nitric acid. A deposit of mercury is obtained on a metallic surface by means of quicksilver water, a solution of mercury(II) nitrate, the nitric acid attacking the metal to which it is applied, and thus leaving a film of free metallic mercury.\n\nThe amalgam being equally spread over the prepared surface of the metal, the mercury is then sublimed by a heat just sufficient for that purpose; for, if it is too great, part of the gold may be driven off, or it may run together and leave some of the surface of the metal bare. When the mercury has evaporated, which is known by the surface having entirely become of a dull yellow color, the metal must undergo other operations, by which the fine gold color is given to it. First, the gilded surface is rubbed with a scratch brush of brass wire, until its surface is smooth.\n\nIt is then covered with \"gilding wax\", and again exposed to fire until the wax is burnt off. Gilding wax is composed of beeswax mixed with some of the following substances: red ochre, verdigris, copper scales, alum, vitriol, and borax. By this operation the color of the gilding is heightened, and the effect seems to be produced by a perfect dissipation of some mercury remaining after the former operation. The gilt surface is then covered over with potassium nitrate, alum or other salts, ground together, and mixed into a paste with water or weak ammonia. The piece of metal thus covered is exposed to heat, and then quenched in water.\n\nBy this method, its color is further improved and brought nearer to that of gold, probably by removing any particles of copper that may have been on the gilt surface. This process, when skillfully carried out, produces gilding of great solidity and beauty, but owing to the exposure of the workmen to mercurial fumes, it is very unhealthy. There is also much loss of mercury to the atmosphere, which brings extremely serious environmental concerns as well.\n\nThis method of gilding metallic objects was formerly widespread, but fell into disuse as the dangers of mercury toxicity became known. Since fire-gilding requires that the mercury be volatilized to drive off the mercury and leave the gold behind on the surface, it is extremely dangerous. Breathing the fumes generated by this process can quickly result in serious health problems, such as neurological damage and endocrine disorders, since inhalation is a very efficient route for mercuric compounds to enter the body. This process has generally been supplanted by the electroplating of gold over a nickel substrate, which is more economical and less dangerous.\n\nIn depletion gilding, a subtractive process discovered in Pre-columbian Mesoamerica, articles are fabricated by various techniques from an alloy of copper and gold, named tumbaga by the Spaniards. The surface is etched with acids, resulting in a surface of porous gold. The porous surface is then burnished down, resulting in a shiny gold surface. The results fooled the conquistadors into thinking they had massive quantities of pure gold. The results startled modern archaeologists, because at first the pieces resemble electroplated articles. Keum-boo is a special Korean technique of silver-gilding, using depletion gilding.\n\nThe gilding of decorative ceramics has been undertaken for centuries, with the permanence and brightness of gold appealing to designers. Both porcelain and earthenware are commonly decorated with gold, and in the late 1970s it was reported that 5 tonnes of gold were used annually for the decoration of these products. Some wall tiles also have gold decoration. Application techniques include spraying, brushing, banding machines, and direct or indirect screen-printing. After application the decorated ware is fired in a kiln to fuse the gold to the glaze and hence ensure its permanence. The most important factors affecting coating quality are the composition of applied gold, the state of the surface before application, the thickness of the layer and the firing conditions.\n\nA number of different forms and compositions are available to apply gold to ceramic, and these include:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "652849", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=652849", "title": "Governance", "text": "Governance\n\nGovernance comprises all of the processes of governing - whether undertaken by the government of a state, by a market or by a network - over a social system (family, tribe, formal or informal organization, a territory or across territories) and whether through the laws, norms, power or language of an organized society. It relates to \"the processes of interaction and decision-making among the actors involved in a collective problem that lead to the creation, reinforcement, or reproduction of social norms and institutions\".\nIn lay terms, it could be described as the political processes that exist in and between formal institutions.\n\nA variety of entities (known generically as governing bodies) can govern. The most formal is a government, a body whose sole responsibility and authority is to make binding decisions in a given geopolitical system (such as a state) by establishing laws. Other types of governing include an organization (such as a corporation recognized as a legal entity by a government), a socio-political group (chiefdom, tribe, gang, family, religious denomination, etc.), or another, informal group of people. In business and outsourcing relationships, governance frameworks are built into relational contracts that foster long-term collaboration and innovation.\n\nGovernance is the way rules, norms and actions are structured, sustained, regulated and held accountable. The degree of formality depends on the internal rules of a given organization and, externally, with its business partners. As such, governance may take many forms, driven by many different motivations and with many different results. For instance, a government may operate as a democracy where citizens vote on who should govern and the public good is the goal, while a non-profit organization or a corporation may be governed by a small board of directors and pursue more specific aims.\n\nIn addition, a variety of external actors without decision-making power can influence the process of governing. These include lobbies, think tanks, political parties, non-government organizations , community and media.\n\nLike \"government\", the word \"governance\" derives, ultimately, from the Greek verb kubernaein [\"kubernáo\"] (meaning \"to steer\", the metaphorical sense first being attested in Plato). Its occasional use in English to refer to the specific activity of ruling a country can be traced to early modern England, when the phrase \"governance of the realm\" appears in works by William Tyndale and in royal correspondence between James V of Scotland and Henry VIII of England. The first usage in connection with institutional structures (as distinct from individual rule) is in Charles Plummer’s \"The Governance of England\" (an 1885 translation from a 15th-century Latin work by John Fortescue, also known as \"The Difference between an Absolute and a Limited Monarchy\"). This usage of governance to refer to the arrangements of governing became orthodox including in Sidney Low’s seminal text of the same title in 1904 and among some later British constitutional historians.\n\nHowever, the use of the term \"governance\" in its current broader sense, encompassing the activities of a wide range of public and private institutions, acquired general currency only as recently as the 1990s, when it was re-minted by economists and political scientists and disseminated by institutions such as the UN, IMF and World Bank. Since then, the term has steadily gained increasing usage.\n\nGovernance often refers to a particular 'level' of governance associated with a type of organization (including public governance, global governance, non-profit governance, corporate governance, and project governance), a particular 'field' of governance associated with a type of activity or outcome (including environmental governance, internet governance, and information technology governance), or a particular 'model' of governance, often derived as an empirical or normative theory (including regulatory governance, participatory governance, multilevel governance, metagovernance, and collaborative governance).\n\nGovernance can also define normative or practical agendas. Normative concepts of fair governance or good governance are common among political, public sector, voluntary, and private sector organizations.\n\nIn its most abstract sense, governance is a theoretical concept referring to the actions and processes by which stable practices and organizations arise and persist. These actions and processes may operate in formal and informal organizations of any size; and they may function for any purpose, good or evil, for profit or not. Conceiving of governance in this way, one can apply the concept to states, to corporations, to non-profits, to NGOs, to partnerships and other associations, to business relationships (especially complex outsourcing relationships), to project teams, and to any number of humans engaged in some purposeful activity.\n\nMost theories of governance as process arose out of neoclassical economics. These theories build deductive models, based on the assumptions of modern economics, to show how rational actors may come to establish and sustain formal organizations, including firms and states, and informal organizations, such as networks and practices for governing the commons. Many of these theories draw on transaction cost economics.\n\nThere is a distinction between the concepts of governance and politics. Politics involves processes by which a group of people (perhaps with divergent opinions or interests) reach collective decisions generally regarded as binding on the group, and enforced as common policy. Governance, on the other hand, conveys the administrative and process-oriented elements of governing rather than its antagonistic ones. Such an argument continues to assume the possibility of the traditional separation between \"politics\" and \"administration\". Contemporary governance practice and theory sometimes questions this distinction, premising that both \"governance\" and \"politics\" involve aspects of power and accountability.\n\nIn general terms, public governance occurs in three broad ways:\n\nPrivate governance occurs when non-governmental entities, including private organizations, dispute resolution organizations, or other third party groups, make rules and/or standards which have a binding effect on the \"quality of life and opportunities of the larger public.\" Simply put, private—not public—entities are making public policy. For example, insurance companies exert a great societal impact, largely invisible and freely accepted, that is a private form of governance in society; in turn, reinsurers, as private companies, may exert similar private governance over their underlying carriers. The term \"public policy\" should not be exclusively associated with policy that is made by government. Public policy may be created by either the private sector or the public sector. If one wishes to refer only to public policy that is made by government, the best term to use is \"governmental policy,\" which eliminates the ambiguity regarding the agent of the policy making.\n\nGlobal governance is defined as \"the complex of formal and informal institutions, mechanisms, relationships, and processes between and among states, markets, citizens and organizations, both inter- and non-governmental, through which collective interests on the global plane are articulated, right and obligations are established, and differences are mediated\". In contrast to the traditional meaning of \"governance\", some authors like James Rosenau have used the term \"global governance\" to denote the regulation of interdependent relations in the absence of an overarching political authority. The best example of this is the international system or relationships between independent states. The term, however, can apply wherever a group of free equals needs to form a regular relationship.\n\nThe Governance Analytical Framework (GAF) is a practical methodology for investigating governance processes, where various stakeholders interact and make decisions regarding collective issues, thus creating or reinforcing social norms and institutions. It is postulated that governance processes can be found in any society, and unlike other approaches, that these can be observed and analysed from a non-normative perspective. It proposes a methodology based on five main analytical units: problems, actors, norms, processes and \"nodal points\". These logically articulated analytical units make up a coherent methodology aimed at being used as a tool for empirical social policy research.\n\nNonprofit governance has a dual focus: achieving the organization's social mission and the ensuring the organization is viable. Both responsibilities relate to fiduciary responsibility that a board of trustees (sometimes called directors, or Board, or Management Committee—the terms are interchangeable) has with respect to the exercise of authority over the explicit actions the organization takes. Public trust and accountability is an essential aspect of organizational viability so it achieves the social mission in a way that is respected by those whom the organization serves and the society in which it is located.\n\nCorporate organizations often use the word \"governance\" to describe both:\n\nCorporate governance consists of the set of processes, customs, policies, laws and institutions affecting the way people direct, administer or control a corporation. Corporate governance also includes the relationships among the many players involved (the stakeholders) and the corporate goals. The principal players include the shareholders, management, and the board of directors. Other stakeholders include employees, suppliers, customers, banks and other lenders, regulators, the environment and the community at large.\n\nThe first documented use of the word \"corporate governance\" is by Richard Eells (1960, p. 108) to denote \"the structure and functioning of the corporate polity\". The \"corporate government\" concept itself is older and was already used in finance textbooks at the beginning of the 20th century (Becht, Bolton, Röell 2004).\n\nProject governance is the management framework within which project decisions are made.\n\nLand governance is concerned with issues of land ownership and tenure. It consists of the policies, processes and institutions by which decisions about the access to, use of and control over land are made, implemented and enforced; it is also about managing and reconciling competing claims on land. In developing countries, it is relevant as a tool to contribute to equitable and sustainable development, addressing the phenomenon that is known as ‘land grabbing’. The operational dimension of land governance is land administration.\n\nSecurity of land tenure is considered to contribute to poverty reduction and food security, since it can enable farmers to fully participate in the economy. Without recognized property rights, it is hard for small entrepreneurs, farmers included, to obtain credit or sell their business - hence the relevance of comprehensive land governance.\n\nThere is constant feedback between land tenure problems and land governance. For instance, it has been argued that what is frequently called 'land grabbing', was partly made possible by the Washington Consensus-inspired liberalization of land markets in developing countries. Many land acquisition deals were perceived to have negative consequences, and this in turn led to initiatives to improve land governance in developing countries.\n\nThe quality of land governance depends on its practical implementation, which is known as land administration: ‘the way in which rules of land tenure are made operational’. And another factor is accountability: the degree to which citizens and stakeholder groups are consulted and can hold to account their authorities.\n\nThe main international policy initiative to improve land governance is known as the Voluntary Guidelines on the Responsible Governance of Tenure of Land, Fisheries and Forests in the Context of National Food Security (VGGT), endorsed by the Committee on World Food Security (CFS).\n\nIT governance primarily deals with connections between business focus and IT management. The goal of clear governance is to assure the investment in IT generate business value and mitigate the risks that are associated with IT projects.\n\nRegulatory governance reflects the emergence of decentered and mutually adaptive policy regimes which rests on regulation rather than service provision or taxing and spending. The term captures the tendency of policy regimes to deal with complexity with delegated system of rules. It is likely to appear in arenas and nations which are more complex, more global, more contested and more liberally democratic. The term builds upon and extends the terms of the regulatory state on the one hand and governance on the other. While the term regulatory state marginalize non-state actors (NGOs and Business) in the domestic and global level, the term governance marginalizes regulation as a constitutive instrument of governance. The term regulatory governance therefore allows us to understand governance beyond the state and governance via regulation.\n\nParticipatory governance focuses on deepening democratic engagement through the participation of citizens in the processes of governance with the state. The idea is that citizens should play a more direct roles in public decision-making or at least engage more deeply with political issues. Government officials should also be responsive to this kind of engagement. In practice, participatory governance can supplement the roles of citizens as voters or as watchdogs through more direct forms of involvement.\n\n(See also contract management.) Emerging thinking about contract governance is focusing on creating a governance structure in which the parties have a vested interest in managing what are often highly complex contractual arrangements in a more collaborative, aligned, flexible, and credible way. In 1979, Nobel laureate Oliver Williamson wrote that the governance structure for a contract is the “framework within which the integrity of a transaction is decided.” Adding further that “because contracts are varied and complex, governance structures vary with the nature of the transaction.”\n\n\"Metagovernance\" is the \"governing of governing\". It represents the established ethical principles, or 'norms', that shape and steer the entire governing process. It is important to note that there are no clearly defined settings within which metagoverning takes place, or particular persons who are responsible for it. While some believe metagoverning to be the role of the state which is assumed to want to steer actors in a particular direction, it can \"potentially be exercised by any resourceful actor\" who wishes to influence the governing process. Examples of this include the publishing of codes of conduct at the highest level of international government, and media focus on specific issues at the socio-cultural level. Despite their different sources, both seek to establish values in such a way that they become accepted 'norms'. The fact that 'norms' can be established at any level and can then be used to shape the governance process as whole, means metagovernance is part of both the input and the output of the governing system.\n\nA collaborative governance framework uses a relationship management structure, joint performance and transformation management processes and an exit management plan as controlling mechanisms to encourage the organizations to make ethical, proactive changes for the mutual benefit of all the parties.\n\nSecurity sector governance (SSG) is a subpart concept or framework of security governance that focuses specifically on decisions about security and their implementation within the security sector of a single state. SSG applies the principles of good governance to the security sector in question.\n\nWhen discussing governance in particular organizations, the quality of governance within the organization is often compared to a standard of good governance. In the case of a business or of a non-profit organization, for example, good governance relates to consistent management, cohesive policies, guidance, processes and decision-rights for a given area of responsibility, and proper oversight and accountability. \"Good governance\" implies that mechanisms function in a way that allows the executives (the \"agents\") to respect the rights and interests of the stakeholders (the \"principals\"), in a spirit of democracy.\n\nGood governance is an indeterminate term used in international development literature to describe various normative accounts of how public institutions ought to conduct public affairs and manage public resources. These normative accounts are often justified on the grounds that they are thought to be conducive to economic ends, such as the eradication of poverty and successful economic development. Unsurprisingly different organizations have defined governance and good governance differently to promote different normative ends.\n\nThe World Bank defines governance as:\nThe Worldwide Governance Indicators project of the World Bank defines governance as:\nThis considers the process by which governments are selected, monitored and replaced; the capacity of the government to effectively formulate and implement sound policies and the respect of citizens and the state of the institutions that govern economic and social interactions among them.\n\nAn alternate definition sees governance as:\nAccording to the United Nations Development Programme's Regional Project on Local Governance for Latin America:\n\nSince the early years of the 2000s (decade), efforts have been conducted in the research and international development community to assess and measure the quality of governance of countries all around the world. Measuring governance is inherently a controversial and somewhat political exercise. A distinction is therefore made between external assessments, peer assessments and self-assessments. Examples of external assessments are donor assessments or comparative indices produced by international non-governmental organizations. An example of a peer assessment is the African Peer Review Mechanism. Examples of self-assessments are country-led assessments that can be led by government, civil society, researchers and/or other stakeholders at the national level.\n\nOne of these efforts to create an internationally comparable measure of governance and an example of an external assessment is the Worldwide Governance Indicators project, developed by members of the World Bank and the World Bank Institute. The project reports aggregate and individual indicators for more than 200 countries for six dimensions of governance: voice and accountability, political stability and lack of violence, government effectiveness, regulatory quality, rule of law, control of corruption. To complement the macro-level cross-country Worldwide Governance Indicators, the World Bank Institute developed the World Bank Governance Surveys, which are country-level governance assessment tools that operate at the micro or sub-national level and use information gathered from a country’s own citizens, business people and public sector workers to diagnose governance vulnerabilities and suggest concrete approaches for fighting corruption.\n\nA Worldwide Governance Index (WGI) was developed in 2009 and is open for improvement through public participation. The following domains, in the form of indicators and composite indexes, were selected to achieve the development of the WGI: Peace and Security, Rule of Law, Human Rights and Participation, Sustainable Development, and Human Development. Additionally, in 2009 the Bertelsmann Foundation published the Sustainable Governance Indicators (SGI), which systematically measure the need for reform and the capacity for reform within the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) countries. The project examines to what extent governments can identify, formulate and implement effective reforms that render a society well-equipped to meet future challenges, and ensure their future viability. Section 10 of the Government Performance and Results Act (GPRA) Modernization Act requires U.S. federal agencies to publish their strategic and performance plans and reports in machine-readable format.\n\nThe International Budget Partnership (IBP) launched the Open Budget Initiative in 2006 with the release of the first Open Budget Survey (OBS). The OBS is a comprehensive analysis and survey that evaluates whether central governments give the public access to budget documents and provide opportunities for public participation in the budget process. To measure the overall commitment to transparency, the IBP created Open Budget Index (OBI), which assigns a score to each country based on the results of the survey. While the OBS is released biannually, the IBP recently released a new OBS Tracker, which serves as an online tool for civil society, the media, and other actors to monitor in real time whether governments are releasing eight key budget documents. The Open Budget Index data are used by the Open Government Partnership, development aid agencies, and increasingly investors in the private sector as key indicators of governance, particularly fiscal transparency and management of public funds. Examples of country-led assessments include the Indonesian Democracy Index, monitoring of the Millennium Development Goal 9 on Human Rights and Democratic Governance in Mongolia and the Gross National Happiness Index in Bhutan.\n\nSection 10 of the Government Performance and Results Act Modernization Act (GPRAMA) requires U.S. federal agencies to publish their performance plans and reports in machine-readable format, thereby providing the basis for evaluating the quality of their performance of the governance functions entrusted to them, as specified in their strategic objectives and performance indicators. Publishing performance reports openly on the Web in a standard, machine-readable format is good practice for all organizations whose plans and reports should be matters of public record.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1525058", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1525058", "title": "Hermippus", "text": "Hermippus\n\nHermippus (; fl. 5th century BC) was the one-eyed Athenian writer of the Old Comedy who flourished during the Peloponnesian War. \nHe was the son of Lysis, and the brother of the comic poet Myrtilus. He was younger than Telecleides and older than Eupolis and Aristophanes. According to the Suda, he wrote forty plays , and his chief actor was Simeron, according to the scholiast of Aristophanes. The titles and fragments of nine of his plays are preserved. He was a bitter opponent of Pericles, whom he accused (probably in the \"Moirai\") of being a bully and a coward, and of carousing with his boon companions while the Lacedaemonians were invading Attica. He also accused Aspasia of impiety and offences against morality, and her acquittal was only secured by the tears of Pericles (Plutarch, \"Pericles\", 32). In the \"Female Bread-Sellers\", he attacked the demagogue Hyperbolus. The \"Mat-Carriers\" contains many parodies of Homer.\n\nNinety-four fragments of Hermippus' work survives, along with the following nine titles:\nHermippus also appears to have written scurrilous iambic poems after the manner of Archilochus. Other types of works written by Hermippus cited by ancient writers include trimeters and tetrameters.\n\n"}
{"id": "19257458", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19257458", "title": "International Journal of Private Law", "text": "International Journal of Private Law\n\nThe International Journal of Private Law is a quarterly peer-reviewed law journal covering all aspects of private law, including audio-visual, media, communication, and space law. It is intended to cover the legal issues facing individuals, entrepreneurs, and business owners on an international scale. The editor-in-chief is Sylvia Kierkegaard. Occasionally, the journal publishes special issues on important topics in private law. The journal is abstracted and indexed by Scopus.\n"}
{"id": "53033093", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53033093", "title": "Jiří Polívka (linguist)", "text": "Jiří Polívka (linguist)\n\nJiří Polívka (March 6, 1858 – March 21, 1933, in Prague) was a Czech linguist, slavist, literary historian and folklorist. He was a disciple of Jan Gebauer. In 1895 he was appointed professor at Charles University in Prague. He became a corresponding member of the Czech Academy of Sciences and Arts and corresponding member of the St. Petersburg Academy of Sciences (1901). He was a supporter of Theodor Benfey’s migration theory. His major work was the collection \"Slavic Tales\" (1932) and studies about Slavic dialectology.\n\n"}
{"id": "27809987", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27809987", "title": "Kraft Circle", "text": "Kraft Circle\n\nThe Kraft Circle was a student society of philosophers at the Institut für Österreichische Geschichtsforschung of the University of Vienna devoted to \"considering philosophical problems in a nonmetaphysical manner and with special reference to the findings of the sciences\". Its chairman and leading professor was Viktor Kraft, a former associate of the Vienna Circle, to which the Kraft Circle is sometimes viewed as a post-Second World War extension. The Circle was a part of the Austrian College Society founded in 1945 by Austrian resistance fighters. \n\nThe club was founded in 1949 by science and engineering students interested in the philosophical foundations of their disciplines. In the first year Ludwig Wittgenstein gave a talk. The members were mainly students, but there were occasional faculty attendees and even \"foreign dignitaries\" made appearances. Meetings of the circle took place during the academic year, while international meetings of the Austrian College Society took place during the summer at Alpbach. The circle disbanded in 1952/53. Feyerabend's paper \"An Attempt at a Realistic Interpretation of Experience\" (\"Proceedings of the Aristotelian Society\" [1958]) is \"a condensed version of the discussions in the Kraft Circle\". \n\n\n"}
{"id": "22266890", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22266890", "title": "LC4MP", "text": "LC4MP\n\nThe Limited Capacity Model of Motivated Mediated Message Processing or LC4MP is an explanatory theory that assumes humans have a limited capacity for cognitive processing of information, as it associates with mediated message variables; moreover, they (viewers) are actively engaged in processing mediated information Like many mass communication theories, LC4MP is an amalgam that finds its origins in psychology. Specifically, this theory has its origins in the Limited Capacity Model for understanding cognitive information processing. The most fundamental assumptions of information processing are the three dimensions of cognitive processing. The three dimensions: 1) encoding, 2) storage, and 3) retrieval. This is how viewers get presented information into their heads. Messages can be processed under controlled conditions or they can be automatically elicited.\n\nWhen a message processor decides to pay attention to a message because it appeals to their interests, and they allocate resources to information processing, the controlled message engagement subprocess begins; conversely, when a message processor is cued automatically, and they are paying attention, the same process of allocating cognitive resources begins to elicit message processing. First, message engagement, which is a stimulus approach/avoidance interaction engages the appetitive and aversive cognitive subprocesses. In the most lay terms, these are basic fight or flight responses that happen in mere nanoseconds. This information then can report to sensor stores in the brain; and if it is useful, it will move to short term memory and long term memory.\n\nThere are several key concepts in the LC4MP: total resources, resources allocated, resources required, resources remaining, and resources available. Total resources refer to the total resources in the resource pool. Resources allocated refer to the resources that are actually available for a processing task. The resource allocated to a task may be equivalent to the total resources, but probably is not. Resources required are the amount of resources necessary to complete a task (See Total-Allocated-Required Resources.). Resources remaining refer to the difference between total resources and resources required. Resources available are the difference between the resources allocated and the resources required. Resources remaining and resources available may be the same if total resources are equivalent to resources allocated, but this is unlikely the case. See the overall picture of mental resources in information processing.\n\nThe reasons for these fine-tuned distinctions are several. First, people may not allocate all of the available resources to a task at hand because they are cognitive misers. Unless highly motivated, people tend to use as few resources as necessary. Thus, a distinction is made between total resources and allocated resources. Second, people will allocate resources only as required by the task. If people are watching a program they have seen before, fewer resources may be required because of the familiarity of the program. Conversely, if the production is such that the visual elements of the programming are important, then more resources may be required. In both cases, the same amount of resources may have been allocated to the TV program, but different amounts were actually used, leaving some allocated resources available in one case but not in another. Third, some elements in the environment will automatically draw resources. For example, formal features automatically attract attention (e.g., unrelated cuts), drawing required resources from the total pool of resources without conscious allocation of resources. In this case, the difference between the automatic attraction (i.e., required) of resources and the total resources leaves some remaining resources for allocation to other tasks.\n\nWithin this model, media messages may receive insufficient or limited processing for two basic reasons (i.e., cognitive overload). First, there may not be enough resources available to process the message fully (i.e., the required resources exceed the total resources). For example, a message on a topic that a person does not understand may require so many resources – perhaps trying to retrieve information from long-term memory – that, even though all resources may have been allocated to the task, the required resources for retrieval leave neither remaining nor available resources for attending to and encoding the message. Second, there may be enough resources available to process the message but those resources are not allocated to the task for reasons such as insufficient motivation or because the person is multitasking (e.g., resources required exceeds resources allocated). For example, when a person is cooking and watching TV at the same time, there may not be enough resources available to process the TV program entirely.\n\nWatching TV involves a number of simultaneous cognitive processes. TV viewing often requires people to engage in processing auditory and visual information, and integrating these two channels of information. At the same time, both the auditory and visual information include the content of the program as well as the formal features of TV which can act as syntax for the programming. The viewer must integrate all of this information to understand the program. In addition, viewers are storing new information in memory and activating existing knowledge to aid in comprehending the program. Research under the rubric of the LC4MP focuses on how resources are allocated to the various processes that are occurring and the effects of differential resource allocation on attention, encoding, and retrieval.\n\nEncoding of information is a subprocess where a stimulus orients a person to a message, vel non. In terms of message processing, its effectiveness is determined by the number of cognitive resources allocated to the encoding process. If the person is exposed to a stimulus, and they choose to pay attention, the brain will treat that mediated message like it was reality. That is, the brain creates an \"orienting response (OR), which is an automatic cognitive response to novel information\". This response is a cognitive reaction to a change in the environment, and can be measured via implicit measures of recognition and explicit measures such as electrochemical reactions in the body. These cognitive processes can be both automatic, as in the case of OR’s, or controlled. In either event, the next step in the message engagement process is to move the information into storage.\n\nStorage is conceptually modeled as a cognitive sub-processing of information into and through the general associative network. Associative networks are conceptual “nodes” that map brain uses as sensor stores—for short-term and long term memory. They are conceptualized as the site where information is stored and ultimately retrieved. Under normal conditions, if there are many associative links available for information processing, “the more readily retrievable that information will become”; hence, then “retrieval” time of information is faster and more accessible. Storage of information is measured via cued recall.\n\nInformation retrieval is conceptualized as the third fundamental conceptual sub process of information processing, and it is a function of memory, which is measured via free recall. Measuring free recall is based on an individual’s levels of sensitivity to stimuli, without being cued to the information.\n\nAutomatic cognitive responses are elicited via a cognitive response to novel information, the primary method in which automatic responses are elicited is through structural cues of the communication situation. Lang, et al. (2000) elaborates on this by controlling the structural features. They discovered that the relatedness of the media messages mattered. They dissected the pacing of mediated content into two categories: one that used related editing in camera angle and content; and, another with unrelated cuts to unrelated information to the previous information that was being encoded and stored. These pacing cues are important to media producers because they can either help reinforce attention into memory; or they can created a low memory retention condition in the minds of the message processor.\n\nBy inserting edits, which are operationalized by the process of switching cameras or transitions in visual or audio media, media producers can elicit orienting responses in attentive viewers. This is accomplished because the mechanism of allocating resources to memory message processing is effective in low, medium, and high edit conditions. Therefore, retrieval is also possible and is measured via recognition testing. However, unlike related editing cues, unrelated cuts do not make it into memory, especially when the cuts are coming at the message processor rapidly. This is important, secondarily, because the entire illusion of a commercially driven media system is premised on the concept that advertising sells products. More importantly, this article's primary concern is to instruct media producers—who are concerned with generating public information, the importance of editing cues, and the deleterious uses of disparate advertising and its ineffectiveness.\n\nMethodologically, the LC4MP uses three primary sets of measures to study how people allocate resources and process information. Secondary task reaction time (STRT) is a measure of the amount of resources allocated to attention. STRT involves people engaging in a primary task such as watching TV while also monitoring a second task such as pressing a button whenever a cue such as a tone sounds or a light comes on. The amount of resources that are available (i.e., resources allocated minus resources required) has been demonstrated to influence how long it takes people to respond in the STRT. When there are a lot of resources available, people quickly notice the light or tone and are quick to press a button. But when resources are low or taxed, people take longer to notice the light or tone and are slower to respond. For example, a cut to an unrelated scene tends to tax resources because of the new information that needs to be processed, and STRT is slower. Critically, STRT is a function of both the resources allocated to the task and the resources required by the task.\n\nA second set of methodological tools involves physiological measures such as heart rate, galvanic skin responses (sweating) or muscle activity. Heart rate is used as a measure of whether an orienting response has occurred. When people show an aroused response, their heart rate decelerates for a few seconds before returning toward their baseline. Likewise, an increase in skin conductance is evidence of an aroused response. Thus, the combined evidence of heart rate deceleration and an increase in skin conductance provides convergent evidence that an orienting response (OR) has occurred.\n\nA final set of methodological tools involves measures of memory including recall and recognition measures. The measures of memory are used to make inferences about encoding and retrieval processes. For example, if messages are simple, increasing people’s attention to a message through the inclusion of formal features that orient attention, such as edits, results in improvements in memory for the message. This finding suggests that there were available resources (i.e., more resources allocated than required) that could be diverted to encoding processes. Conversely, with a complex message, the addition of features that increase ORs tends to lead to decrements in memory, which suggests that ORs automatically drew resources away from encoding processes and resulted in worse memory. The decreased performance on memory tests is one indication that the resources required has exceeded the resources allocated to the task.\n\nThe ability of information processing of mediated messages has limits. Interference with the encoding, storage, and retrieval of messages; especially when the receiver is not interested in the message, creates a situation where the required resources needed to process information are not dedicated; and, “fewer associative links will be made available to the message... therefore, it limits their ability to process media” (). This is a concern for researchers interested in studying how people encode and store information because if information processors do not devote the appropriate number of resources required to process information, then information overload will inhibit the abilities of individuals to encoding, store, and retrieve information. Additionally, the ability to information processors to process messages is also limited by their unique retrieval sub processing abilities, which are related to perceptions compiled over time. Thus, the sub process of retrieval is affected by two dimensions termed, “later retrieval-done after the fact and concurrent retrieval- in real time affect information processing of messages”.\n\nAs a conceptual level of LC4MP, constructivism argues the limitation of information processing theoretical view, although the argues are not in the mediated media world but in more foundational psychology world. Before to point out specific limits of the view, it is useful to summarize the characteristics of information processing views for contrast. First, this view has it that information gains (e.g., learning) can be conceived as internal structures (e.g., long term memory) changing to reflect changes in the external world, which represents \"reality\". Within the traditional information processing view this real world is \"knowable\" and, as a consequence a student's knowledge can be ultimately judged as right or wrong. A second important characteristic of the information processing view is that there are general principles of learning, knowledge, etc. that hold true across situations and across learners, and it is the job of the researcher and theorist to ascertain these general principles.\n\nOn the other hand, a fundamental characteristic of the prototypical constructivist view is that no knowledge is absolute, rather knowledge is constructed. For example, the constructivists point to all the times in history when something was thought be a \"fact\", but was later discounted. This view is in contrast with the \"absolute reality\" basis of the information processing view. Another fundamental characteristics of the structuralist perspective is that learning only occurs within some context. So, for example, to consider learning independent of the environment in which it occurs (e.g., school, work, or play), is unrealistic and incomplete. This, again, is inconsistent with both the behaviorist and information processing views (and much of science in general, for that matter) in that these latter theories are based on the assumption that fundamental principles can be ascertained that will apply broadly across contexts and across learners.\n\nThese distinctions may sound quite abstract and removed from \"real life\" classroom instruction to you. In fact, in a practical/applied sense there are some important implications and practices that have emerged from this constructivist view since it has come into favor in the last decade. The general view that knowledge is not so absolute, that it is \"constructed\" puts more of an emphasis on the knowledge and conceptions that students brings to the classroom. This leads to a more \"learner centered approach\", with the teacher as more of a \"guide on the side\", as opposed to a \"sage on the stage\". Further, in a \"constructivist classroom\" students are more free to participate in the planning (i.e., \"negotiate\") and, even, the assessment process. Another implication of the \"relative\" nature of knowledge contention is that it is important to present the learner with multiple perspectives on a single topic or concept.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29324148", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29324148", "title": "La Blanca, Peten", "text": "La Blanca, Peten\n\nLa Blanca is a Maya archaeological site in the municipality of Melchor de Mencos in the northern Petén Department of Guatemala. The site is located in the lower reaches of the Mopan River valley and features a large acropolis complex. Activity at the site has been dated as far back as the Early Classic (AD 250–600), with principal occupation of the site occurring in the Late Classic period (AD 600–900), although some level of occupation continued into the Early Postclassic (AD 900–1200).\n\nLa Blanca occupied a frontier zone between the northeastern and southeastern Petén regions and the site is dominated by the acropolis, an especially well built palace complex. The city appears to have been an administrative centre with comparatively little emphasis upon religious or ceremonial activity. It is likely that La Blanca was a subsidiary of a major Maya city such as Yaxha or Naranjo, given the complete absence of hieroglyphic texts and sculpted monuments, and archaeologists presume that La Blanca served as a frontier post or trading centre.\n\nDuring the Late Classic there was greater public access to the acropolis; as the threat of warfare grew during the Terminal Classic (AD 800-900), access became much more restricted. The end of formal occupation of the city in the Terminal Classic appears to have been violent, with evidence of a battle recovered during excavations of the acropolis. Refugees appear to have occupied the city centre immediately after the collapse of formal settlement at La Blanca, but they abandoned the city for good in the 11th century, after which it was never reoccupied.\n\nThe acropolis buildings contain inscribed graffiti dating to the last phase of occupation in the Early Postclassic, including human and animal figures, deities, temples and courtly scenes. Colonial graffiti is also evident from the visit to the ruins by captain Pedro Montañés in the middle of the 18th century.\n\nLa Blanca is accessed by a dirt road leading to the highway linking Flores with Melchor de Mencos; the dirt road joins the highway at La Pólvora. In the other direction this road leads approximately to a village, also called La Blanca; this modern village extends along the shores of a small lake. The archaeological site is located to the south of a range of hills reaching a maximum height of .\n\nThe site occupies a small pocket of forest amongst an extensive region of cleared agricultural land. The agricultural land closest to the ruins is largely dedicated to livestock grazing, particularly cattle and horses. La Blanca is located close to the Mopan River and its tributary, the Salsipuedes River. Some of the land between the ruins and the rivers is subject to frequent flooding, a factor that must have had some impact upon the inhabitants of the city.\n\nThe forest covering the archaeological site reaches an average height of . It contains around 60 tree species, among which the most notable are breadnut trees (\"Brosimum alicastrum\") and corozo palms (\"Orbignya cohune\").\n\nThe earliest occupation at La Blanca was concentrated in the South Group and dates to the Early Classic Period. However, major occupation of the site appears to have begun in the Late Classic Period. Public spaces were covered with white stucco and the first architecture was erected at the site. The basal platform of the acropolis appears to have been built before the Great North Plaza was laid out.\n\nIn the Late Classic there appears to have been greater public access to the acropolis, with stairways communicating between the various terraces leading up to the south range. During the Terminal Classic, these stairways were filled in, as were many of the access doorways to the acropolis itself, with some buildings being sealed completely. This closing of public access to the palace reflects the greater political instability engulfing the entire Petén region at this time. The acropolis complex was abandoned by the city's elite in the Terminal Classic, a time when most of the city centre was also deserted by its residents. Many flint projectile points were recovered from the south terraces of the acropolis, this combined with the remains of two individuals very near the surface indicates that a violent confrontation took place around the time that the city was abandoned.\n\nSoon afterwards, at the dawn of the Postclassic, immediately after the Classic Maya collapse, the acropolis was reoccupied by refugees from the periphery of the city. These final occupants appear to have abandoned the city some time in the 11th century AD, after which it was never reoccupied.\n\nIn the 18th century Pedro Montañés passed through the site and left graffiti with his name and the year 1752. Archives have revealed that he was a Spanish captain who visited the site on 14 August of that year. La Blanca was first documented in the early years of the 20th century. In 1905 explorer Teoberto Maler identified visible architecture at the site and marked it as El Castillito on a map of the region. Raymond E. Merwin visited La Blanca in 1913 on behalf of the Peabody Museum of Harvard University. He photographed the site and renamed it as Chac-Ha. At this time the site appears to have been covered in dense vegetation, making exploration of the ruins difficult and resulting in only a brief description of the acropolis.\n\nIan Graham published a plan of the site in 1980, based on explorations in preceding years. Further explorations have taken place on behalf of the Atlas Arqueológico de Guatemala and the Yaxha-Nakum-Naranjo Project. The Yaxha-Nakum-Naranjo Project started work at the site in 1994 with preliminary work consisted of mapping and photographing the ruins. In 1995 the ruins were cleared of undergrowth and in 1996 the Unidad de Arquelogía Regional de Guatemala (Guatemalan Regional Archaeology Unit) surveyed the ruins, recorded damage by looters and sank test pits, all under the direction of Vilma Fialko. From 1997 to 1998 looting damage was repaired and architecture deemed at risk of collapse was underpinned. In 1999 further underpinning work was undertaken as a result of earthquake damage and detailed plans were made of the architecture in 2000. The Atlas Arqueológico de Guatemala included La Blanca in its survey of three sites in the lower Mopan valley in 2001. More recently, investigations have been funded by the Spanish Ministry of Culture together with the University of Valencia and the Polytechnic University of Valencia. Excavations continued in 2004 both in the city centre and in the South Group, where looting damage was recorded and repaired.\n\nThe site covers an area of about and a great many structures have been identified by archaeologists. The principal architecture has been dated to the Late Classic period. The layout of the city is somewhat unusual in that the north-south axis is oriented 12° west of north whereas most Maya cities have the major axis a similar amount east of north. The political and administrative functions were concentrated in the eastern portion of the city, which is taken to include the South Group, as evidenced by the superior architectural quality in these areas.\n\nThe Great North Plaza is a large square-plan plaza measuring . The Plaza was levelled by packing it with a clay-based mud, work that took place in the Late Classic Period based on the evidence of ceramic and flint artefacts recovered during investigations. This clay mud conataining attapulgite was likely to have been brought to the city from the nearby swamps. Excavations in the plaza and close to the acropolis revealed the presence of a retaining wall probably related to the construction of the great platform supporting the acropolis itself.\n\nA wide causeway runs south from the Plaza, running to the west of the acropolis and parallel to it. This causeway runs south for approximately to the South Group. The area west of the causeway contains a large number of smaller mounds and platforms and is believed to be an extensive residential area. This residential area includes three large plazas, the northern of which is divided from the Great North Plaza by a row of structures. A stairway may have led southwards from this down to the Central West Plaza, which is on the opposite side of the causeway from the Acropolis. The south side of the Central West Plaza is bordered by a long structure that divides it from the South West Plaza. An area of smaller mounds extends further west and are believed to represent lesser residential districts of the city.\n\nThe area to the east of the city drops away rapidly and lacks extensive settlement remains, perhaps due to periodic flooding by the Mopan and Salsipuedes rivers discouraging the occupation of the eastern zone.\n\nThe most important architectural complex is the acropolis, a palace with an enclosed courtyard located within the Great North Plaza. The acropolis is also known as the Quadrangle due to its layout. A series of terraces lead down from the acropolis to a reservoir to the south, which appears to have been a private water source for the palace. The reservoir itself is now dried out. The acropolis was accessed via a wide stairway from the Great North Plaza. The form of the plaza and the acropolis are unusual, although similar complexes have been identified at Tayasal, Ixlú and Kinal.\n\nExcavations in the acropolis revealed the presence of at least two superimposed platforms built with finely dressed stone blocks and covered with good quality stucco flooring. At a later date the platforms and courtyard were covered with unworked stones bound with mortar and covered with another stucco floor. The two platforms were built in the Late Classic and appear to have been covered over in the Terminal Classic.\n\nThe interior courtyard measures approximately on each side and was completely enclosed by the palace, creating a very private space within. The buildings on the north, west and south sides faced outwards away from the private courtyard, opening onto it only via a central doorway in each structure. The eastern structure was built at a later date, has two lateral doorways and was the only side to face directly onto the courtyard; it highly may have been the residence of the city's ruler. Entrance to the courtyard is from the exterior the acropolis via these central doorways on the north, south and west sides. Of these three entrances, the northern entrance appears to have been the main entrance to the acropolis complex. The south entrance was a more private entrance that opened from the acropolis onto the terraces leading down to the water source in that direction. The western entrance lead to the terrace above the causeway, providing a balcony with an excellent view across the city.\n\nThe cut stone walls of the acropolis are of very high quality, constructed of large, finely cut blocks at times forming walls almost thick, filled with rubble and mortar. The exterior faces of the walls are carefully dressed and the interior of good quality vaulted ceilings. Although such high quality work can be found in parts of major cities such as Tikal, its presence in a smaller site such as La Blanca is considered surprising by archaeologists. The walls facing the interior courtyard have been especially well preserved. During survey work at the arcopolis, archaeologists discovered a long flint knife deliberately embedded in the interior of the north wall, it weighed . The knife was embedded in the mortar of the infill with the blade pointing outwards, with three embedded decorations near the tip. Archaeologists believe the blade was deposited during rituals associated with the construction of the building.\nThe outer eastern wall of the acropolis is especially well preserved, including a cornice above the floor level of the building, which is above the plaza floor. The wall continued above the cornice for another and this section probably supported a stucco frieze. The entire eastern face of the building measured long and stood above the level of the Great North Plaza. This wall was completely blank, without any doorways or other openings.\n\nThe range structures on the other sides of the courtyards, all opening outwards away from it, consisted of a series of rooms of varying size. The height of the rooms from the palace floor to the top of the vaulting was generally about throughout the palace. The interior walls were originally painted red and black as demonstrated by surviving traces of pigment. The exterior facades of the range structures were originally decorated with sculpted stone friezes representing supernatural beings, fragments of which have been found amongst the collapsed rubble.\n\nThe vaulted ceilings of the palace were skillflly constructed, with sides of equal length unlike in other sites in the Petén region where the sides of vaulted ceilings were often of different lengths. The vaulting is of exceptional height, reaching up to .\n\nThe south range measures long and divides the courtyard from the series of terraces to the south. The rooms of the south range include wide benches running their entire width, they measure high and still preserve their original stucco covering. The bench in Room 1 has a small step leading up to it. The walls of the rooms are relatively poorly preserved, although some parts still retain their stucco covering and traces of pigment, as well as inscribed graffiti. The lintels over the doors were crafted from sapodilla wood. Some of the south-facing rooms have twin, symmetrically placed doorways, a style of architecture that is very unusual for a range structure in the Petén region. Examples are known from minor structures at Tikal but the closest corresponding architecture comes from the Puuc region of the northern Yucatán Peninsula, at cities such as Cacabxnuc, Chelemi, Xcorralche and Xkalachetzimin, although they differ in other particulars, such as the vaulting.\n\nExcavations immediately south of the south range uncovered part of a substructure consisting of a well-preserved stucco-covered \"talud\" wall and a stairway, these are thought to be the remains of a terrace platform. A portion of a second terrace \"talud\" wall was also uncovered.\nInvestigations of the West Group have revealed an occupation beginning in the Late Classic and reaching its maximum extent in the Terminal Classic. The construction methods used in the West Group were inferior to those of the acropolis, consisting of finely cut limestone blocks bound with an earth-based mortar rather than the lime-based mortar used in the palace complex. The platforms of the West Group appear to have supported perishable superstructures and some of these buildings may have been dedicated to craft production.\n\nThe three main plazas of the West Group appear to have lacked stucco flooring and were instead covered with stone chippings.\n\nThe South Group is the furthest group from the centre to possess monumental architecture. The South Group is the oldest architectural group at La Blanca, with occupation dating as far back as the Early Classic. It has a slightly different orientation to the rest of the site, apparently due to its earlier construction. It consists of number of medium-sized mounds that have been badly damaged by looters. The larger of the mounds are pyramids and there were also a number of other buildings. One of the mounds measures approximately high and was almost cut in half by a looters' trench. Rescue operations uncovered ceramic remains dating to the Late Classic, including a piece bearing a fragment of hieroglyphic text.\n\nExcavations in 2008 revealed that one of these mounds was a temple pyramid with a well-preserved central stairway.\n\nThe acropolis is also distinguished by a great quantity of graffiti inscribed onto the stucco interior walls of its rooms, some of which display a considerable level of artistic skill. The graffiti is believed to date to the last phase of occupation of the acropolis, during the Early Postclassic, and includes local fauna and human figures, some of which are playing musical instruments. Animals depicted in the graffiti include a deer, a turtle and a frog. Two human figures are depicted playing flutes, while other subjects include pyramid temples, courtly scenes, vulvas and supernatural beings.\n\nAnalysis of pigment traces from the south range of the acropolis were carried out by the Polytechnic University of Valencia, they revealed a preference for mineral and vegetable pigments of local origin, perhaps collected from the nearby El Camalote hill.\n\nMany of the artefacts excavated from the acropolis date from the transition from the Terminal Classic Period to the Early Postclassic, when the surrounding population appears to have occupied the abandoned palace. Excavations of the south range of the acropolis uncovered a great many potsherds (roughly 11,000) dating to the Terminal Classic, and about 150 pieces dating to the Early Postclassic. In the same building 150 stone artefacts were excavated together with hundreds of fragments of waste chippings. Fifteen incomplete ceramic figurines were also found, including zoomorphic figures and elite human figures with elaborate headdresses. One of these figurines was a whistle in the shape of an owl, identical to another found in an excavated rubbish heap in the acropolis courtyard. Both of these owl-shaped whistles are very similar to a larger whistle found at Yaxha. A number of artefacts were recovered from the threshold of Room 3 of the south range, including a complete terminal classic ceramic vessel, a flint knife, some broken figurine fragments and some lithic fragments. In the area of the threshold of Room 4 in the south range a complete Early Postclassic tripod plate was recovered. Within Room 4 itself were found a further 70 broken pieces of Terminal Classic ceramics and 232 pieces dated to the Early Postclassic, and a greenstone axe among other finds. Many of the Postclassic fragments were from a tripod pitcher with zoomorph supports that archaeologists were largely able to reconstruct. Additionally, 798 Terminal Classic ceramic fragments were found during the exploration of the terraces immediately south of the acropolis, together with stone chippings and pieces of animal bones.\n\nPits sunk within the courtyard of the acropolis revealed 5425 ceramic fragments, 22 fragments of zoomorphic figurines, together with stone and shell artefacts, animal bones and waste flint chips, all dated to the Terminal Classic.\n\nAnalysis of artefacts from La Blanca has revealed an unusual and almost total absence of obsidian, while flint of various colours (including red, pink, orange, brown, cream and grey) is particularly common.\n\nA human burial was found in Room 3 of the south range of the Acropolis. The remains were found lying on their right side facing towards the west, with arms bent. Preliminary investigation suggests that the remains are those of a young adult male with a height of approximately . The left hand side of the skull is deformed, perhaps as a result of either oxycephaly or plagiocephaly.\n"}
{"id": "24156968", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24156968", "title": "List of Unicode radicals", "text": "List of Unicode radicals\n\nThe List of Unicode radicals comprises those Unicode characters that represent radical components of CJK characters, Tangut characters or Yi syllables. These are used primarily for indexing characters in dictionaries.\n\nThere are two CJK radicals blocks: the \"Kangxi Radicals\" block that includes the 214 standard radicals used in the \"Kangxi Dictionary\"; and the \"CJK Radicals Supplement\" block that includes 115 radical components used in other modern dictionaries, including simplified Chinese and Japanese radicals forms.\n\nThere is one \"Tangut Components\" block that includes 755 radicals and components that are used to index Tangut characters in dictionaries of the Tangut script or to describe the structure of Tangut characters.\n\nThere is one \"Yi Radicals\" block that includes 55 radicals used to index Yi characters in dictionaries of the Yi script.\n\nSets of radicals for other sinoform scripts, such as Jurchen and Khitan small script, have also been proposed for encoding in Unicode.\n\n"}
{"id": "37534281", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37534281", "title": "List of World Heritage sites in Belgium", "text": "List of World Heritage sites in Belgium\n\nThe United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) World Heritage sites are places of importance to cultural or natural heritage as described in the UNESCO World Heritage Convention, established in 1972. The Kingdom of Belgium accepted the convention on 24 July 1996, making its historical sites eligible for inclusion on the list.\n\nCurrently, there are 13 sites in Belgium inscribed on the list and 16 sites on the tentative list. The first sites in Belgium to be added to the list were the Flemish \"Béguinages\", the Grand Place in Brussels and the lifts on the Canal du Centre, all three of them inscribed at the 22nd UNESCO session in 1998. Further sites were added in 1999, 2000, 2005, 2009, 2012, 2016 and 2017. In total, there are 12 cultural sites, as determined by the organization's selection criteria. The Sonian Forest, as a part of the extension to the site of Primeval Beech Forests of the Carpathians and Other Regions of Europe, is the only natural site. Three of the sites are transnational entries.\n\nThe table lists information about each World Heritage site:\n\nIn addition to the sites inscribed on the World Heritage list, member states can maintain a list of tentative sites that they may consider for nomination. Nominations for the World Heritage list are only accepted if the site was previously listed on the tentative list. As of 2017, Belgium lists 16 properties on its tentative list.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4321280", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4321280", "title": "List of oil spills", "text": "List of oil spills\n\nThis is a reverse-chronological list of oil spills that have occurred throughout the world and spill(s) that are currently ongoing. Quantities are measured in tonnes of crude oil with one tonne roughly equal to 308 US gallons, 256 Imperial gallons, 7.33 barrels, or 1165 litres. This calculation uses a median value of 0.858 for the specific gravity of light crude oil; actual values can range from 0.816 to 0.893, so the amounts shown below are inexact. They are also estimates, because the actual volume of an oil spill is difficult to measure exactly.\n\nNote: The \"flow rate\" column applies to leaking wells, pipelines, etc., and is often used to estimate the total amount of oil spilled. The \"full cargo\" column applies to vessels, vehicles, etc., and represents the maximum amount of oil that could be spilled. The \"spilled\" columns indicate the total amount of oil that has been released to the environment so far, and should be based on official estimates found in referenced sources whenever possible. When official estimates vary, use the \"min tonnes\" and \"max tonnes\" columns to show the range of estimates (minimum and maximum) in metric tonnes (i.e. 1 tonne = 1,000 kg).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "140305", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=140305", "title": "Lithic reduction", "text": "Lithic reduction\n\nIn archaeology, in particular of the Stone Age, lithic reduction is the process of fashioning stones or rocks from their natural state into tools or weapons by removing some parts. It has been intensely studied and many archaeological industries are identified almost entirely by the lithic analysis of the precise style of their tools and the chaîne opératoire of the reduction techniques they used. \n\nNormally the starting point is the selection of a piece of tool stone that has been detached by natural geological processes, and is an appropriate size and shape. In some cases solid rock or larger boulders may be quarried and broken into suitable smaller pieces, and in others the starting point may be a piece of the debitage, a flake removed from a previous operation to make a larger tool. The selected piece is called the lithic core (also known as the \"objective piece\"). A basic distinction is that between flaked or chipped stone, the main subject here, and ground stone objects made by grinding. Flaked stone reduction involves the use of a hard hammer percussor, such as a hammerstone, a soft hammer fabricator (made of wood, bone or antler), or a wood or antler punch to detach lithic flakes from the lithic core. As flakes are detached in sequence, the original mass of stone is reduced; hence the term for this process. Lithic reduction may be performed in order to obtain sharp flakes, of which a variety of tools can be made, or to rough out a blank for later refinement into a projectile point, knife, or other object. Flakes of regular size that are at least twice as long as they are broad are called blades. Lithic tools produced this way may be bifacial (exhibiting flaking on both sides) or unifacial (exhibiting flaking on one side only).\nCryptocrystalline or amorphous stone such as chert, flint, obsidian, and chalcedony, as well as other fine-grained stone material, such as rhyolite, felsite, and quartzite, were used as a source material for producing stone tools. As these materials lack natural planes of separation, conchoidal fractures occur when they are struck with sufficient force; for these stones this process is called knapping. The propagation of force through the material takes the form of a Hertzian cone that originates from the point of impact and results in the separation of material from the objective piece, usually in the form of a partial cone, commonly known as a lithic flake. This process is predictable, and allows the flintknapper to control and direct the application of force so as to shape the material being worked. Controlled experiments may be performed using glass cores and consistent applied force in order to determine how varying factors affect core reduction.\n\nIt has been shown that stages in the lithic reduction sequence may be misleading and that a better way to assess the data is by looking at it as a continuum. The assumptions that archaeologists sometimes make regarding the reduction sequence based on the placement of a flake into a stage can be unfounded. For example, a significant amount of cortex can be present on a flake taken off near the very end of the reduction sequence. Removed flakes exhibit features characteristic of conchoidal fracturing, including striking platforms, bulbs of force, and occasionally eraillures (small secondary flakes detached from the flake's bulb of force). Flakes are often quite sharp, with distal edges only a few molecules thick when they have a feather termination. These flakes can be used directly as tools or modified into other utilitarian implements, such as spokeshaves and scrapers.\n\nBy understanding the complex processes of lithic reduction, archaeologists recognize that the pattern and amount of reduction contribute tremendous effect to lithic assemblage compositions. One of the measurements is the geometric index of reduction. There are two elements in this index: 't' and 'T'. The 'T' is the 'height' of maximum blank thickness and the 't' is the height of retouched scar from the ventral surface. The ratio between t and T is the geometric index of reduction. In theory this ratio shall range between 0 and 1. The bigger the number is the larger amount of lost weight from lithic flake. By using a logarithmic scale, a linear relationship between the geometric index and the percentage of original flake weight lost through retouch is confirmed. In choosing a reduction index, it is important to understand the strengths and weaknesses of each method, and how they fit to the intended research question, as different indices provide different levels of information. For example, Kuhn's geometric index of unifacial reduction (GIUR), which describes the ratio of scar height relative to the flake thickness, is highly influenced by the morphology of the flake blank which limits the applicability of this reduction index.\n\nAlongside the various percussion and manipulation techniques described below, there is evidence that heat was at least sometimes used. Experimental archaeology has demonstrated that heated stones are sometimes much easier to flake, with larger flakes being produced in flint, for example. In some cases the heating changes the colour of the stone.\nPercussion reduction, or percussion flaking, refers to removal of flakes by impact. Generally, a core or other objective piece, such as a partially formed tool, is held in one hand, and struck with a hammer or percussor. Alternatively, the objective piece can also be struck between a stationary anvil-stone, known as bipolar percussion. Percussion can also be done by throwing the objective piece at an anvil stone. This is sometimes called projectile percussion. Percussors are traditionally either a stone cobble or pebble, often referred to as a hammerstone, or a billet made of bone, antler, or wood. Often, flakes are struck from a core using a punch, in which case the percussor never actually makes contact with the objective piece. This technique is referred to as indirect percussion. \n\nProjectile percussion is so basic as to not be considered a technique. It involves throwing the toolstone at a stationary anvil stone. This method provides virtually no control over how the toolstone will fragment, and therefore produces a great deal of shatter, and few flakes. It is difficult to be sure whether or not this method of lithic reduction was ever a commonplace practice, although noting sharp edges on a broken rock might have led early humans to first recognize the value of lithic reduction.\n\nIn bipolar percussion the objective piece of toolstone is placed on an anvil stone, and then the percussion force is applied to the tool stone. Like projectile percussion, the tool stone is likely to shatter, rather than producing a single flake. Unlike projectile percussion, the technique has some degree of control to it. Bipolar percussion is not popular with hobbyists, but there is evidence that bipolar percussion was the preferred way of dealing with certain problems. Bipolar percussion has the benefit of producing many sharp flakes, and triangular pieces of stone which can be useful as drills. Bipolar percussion also does not require the manufacturer to locate a platform before setting to work, and bipolar percussion can produce sharp flakes almost the size of the original piece of tool stone. The lack of control makes bipolar percussion undesirable in many situations, but the benefits mean that it often has a use, especially if workable material is rare. Bipolar percussion is often used to break open small cobbles, or to have a second chance with spent lithic cores, broken bifaces, and tools that have been reworked so much that it is impossible to make further useful tools using traditional lithic reduction. The end result of bipolar percussion is often a big mess, with only a few pieces that can be useful as cores or flakes for further working, but if other methods would result in a total dead-end, bipolar percussion may be desirable.\n\nAn alternative view of the bipolar reduction technique is offered by Jan Willem Van der Drift which contradicts the suggestion that there is little control over fracturing. The characteristics of bipolar reduction are different from that occurring in conchoidal fracture and are therefore often misinterpreted by archaeologists and lithic experts.\n\nHard hammer techniques are generally used to remove large flakes of stone. Early flintknappers and hobbyists replicating their methods often use cobbles of very hard stone, such as quartzite. This technique can be used by flintknappers to remove broad flakes that can be made into smaller tools. This method of manufacture is believed to have been used to make some of the earliest stone tools ever found, some of which date from over 2 million years ago.\n\nIt is the use of hard-hammer percussion that most often results in the formation of the typical features of conchoidal fracture on the detached flake, such as the bulb of percussion and compression rings.\nSoft-hammer percussion involves the use of a billet, usually made of wood, bone or antler as the percussor. These softer materials are easier to shape than stone hammers, and therefore can be made into more precise tools. Soft hammers also deform around the sharp edges of worked stone, rather than shattering through them, making it desirable for working tool stone that already has been worked to some degree before. Soft hammers of course also do not have as much force behind them as hard hammers do. Flakes produced by soft hammers are generally smaller and thinner than those produced by hard-hammer flaking; thus, soft-hammer flaking is often used after hard-hammer flaking in a lithic reduction sequence to do finer work. As well as this, soft-hammers can produce longer flakes which aid in the conservation of materials because they produce a longer cutting edge per unit of mass lost.\n\nIn most cases, the amount of pressure applied to the objective piece in soft-hammer percussion is not enough for the formation of a typical conchoidal fracture. Rather, soft-hammer flakes are most often produced by what is referred to as a bending fracture, so-called because the flake is quite literally bent or \"peeled\" from the objective piece. A bending fracture can be produced with a hard hammer. Flakes removed in this manner lack a bulb of percussion, and are distinguished instead by the presence of a small lip where the flake's striking platform has separated from the objective piece.\n\nIndirect percussion involves the use of a punch and hammer. The punch and hammer make it possible to apply large force to very small areas of a stone tool. Indirect percussion is therefore often used to achieve detail work on smaller tools. Some modern hobbyists make use of indirect percussion almost exclusively, with little or no pressure flaking to finish their work.\n\nSince indirect percussion can be so precisely placed, the platform is often much smaller on flakes produced in this way than in other methods of flake removal. Of course, indirect percussion requires two hands to hold the percussing tool set. One holds the hammer, and one holds the punch. Therefore, modern hobbyists must use a third object in order to hold the targeted piece of tool stone while they strike it. Often, some sort of clamp or vise is used. No evidence for such devices has yet been found in the archaeological record, but this is partly because they would normally be made of perishable materials, and partly because they can have great variation in design.\n\n Pressure flaking is a method of trimming the edge of a stone tool by removing small lithic flakes by pressing on the stone with a sharp instrument rather than striking it with a percussor. This method, which often uses punches made from bone or antler tines (or, among modern hobbyists, copper punches or even nails), provides a greater means of controlling the direction and quantity of the applied force than when using even the most careful percussive flaking. Copper retoucheurs to facilitate this process were widely employed in the Early Bronze Age – and may therefore be associated with Beaker Culture in northwestern Europe.\n\nUsually, the objective piece is held clasped in the flintknapper's hand, with a durable piece of fabric or leather protecting the flintknapper's palm from the sharpness of the flakes removed. The tip of the flaking tool is placed against the edge of the stone tool and pressed hard, removing a small linear or lunate flake from the opposite side. The process also involves frequent preparation of the edge to form better platforms for pressing off flakes. This is usually accomplished with abraiders made from a coarse-grained stone such as basalt or quartzite. Great care must be taken during pressure flaking so that perverse fractures that break the entire tool do not occur. Occasionally, \"outrepasse\" breaks occur when the force propagates across and through the tool in such a way that the entire opposite margin is removed.\n\nThe use of pressure flaking facilitated the early production of sharper and more finely detailed tools. Pressure flaking also gave toolmakers the ability to create notches where the objective piece could be bound more securely to the shaft of the weapon or tool and increasing the object's utility.\n\nAn archaeological discovery in 2010 in Blombos Cave, South Africa, places the use of pressure flaking by early humans to make stone tools back to 73,000 BCE, 55,000 years earlier than previously accepted. The previously accepted date, \"no more than 20,000 years ago\", was based upon the earliest evidence previously available, which derived from findings of the Upper Paleolithic Solutrean culture in France and Spain.\n\nA blank is a stone of suitable size and shape to be worked into a stone tool. Blanks are the starting point of a lithic reduction process, and during prehistoric times were often transported or traded for later refinement at another location. Blanks might be stones or cobbles, just as natural processes have left them, or might be quarried pieces, or flakes that are debitage from making another piece. Whatever their origin, on most definitions no further steps have yet been taken to shape them, or they become a preform.\n\nThe next stage creates a preform, or roughly shaped piece of stone, that probably reveals the final form of the tool, but is not complete. Preforms might also be transported or traded. Typically, a preform is the shaped remnant of a lithic core. Larger and thicker than the intended tool, it lacks the final trimming and refinement that is present in the completed artifact. Sometimes basic features such as stems and notches have been initiated. In most cases, the term refers to an incomplete projectile point.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1971795", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1971795", "title": "Napata", "text": "Napata\n\nNapata was a city-state of ancient Nubia on the west bank of the Nile at the site of modern Karima, Sudan.\n\nNapata was founded by Thutmose III in the 15th century BC after his conquest of Nubia. The nearby Jebel Barkal was taken to mark the southern border of the New Kingdom of Egypt.\n\nIn 1075 BC, the High Priest of Amun at Thebes, capital of Egypt, became powerful enough to limit the power of Pharaoh Smendes of the post-Ramesside Twenty-first Dynasty over Upper Egypt. This was the beginning of the Third Intermediate Period (1075–664 BC). The fragmentation of power in Egypt allowed the Nubians to regain autonomy. They founded the Kingdom of Kush, which was centered at Napata.\n\nIn 750 BC, Napata was a developed city, while Egypt was still suffering political instability. Kashta, whose name is Egyptian for \"the Kushite\", profited from it, and attacked Upper Egypt. His policy was pursued by his successors Piye, and Shabaka (721–707 BC), who eventually brought the whole Nile Valley under Kushitic control in the second year of his reign. Overall, the Kushite kings ruled Upper Egypt for approximately one century and the whole of Egypt for approximately 57 years, from 721 to 664 BC. They constitute the Twenty-fifth Dynasty in Manetho’s \"Aegyptiaca\".\n\nThe reunited Egyptian empire under the 25th dynasty was as large as it had been since the New Kingdom and ushered in a renaissance. Religion, the arts, and architecture were restored to their Old, Middle, and New Kingdom forms. Pharaohs, such as Taharqa, built or restored temples and monuments throughout the Nile, including at Memphis, Karnak, Kawa, Jebel Barkal, and elsewhere.\n\nPharaoh Taharqa's reign and that of his eventual successor, his cousin Tantamani, were filled with constant conflict with the Neo-Assyrian Empire. Around 670 BC, emperor Esarhaddon (681–669 BC) conquered Lower Egypt, but allowed local kingdoms there to exist in order to enlist them as his allies against the Kushite rulers of Upper Egypt, who had been accepted with reluctance.\n\nWhen King Ashurbanipal succeeded Esarhaddon, the Kushite king Taharqa convinced some rulers of Lower Egypt to break with Assyrians. However, Assurbanipal overpowered the coalition and deported the Egyptian leaders to his capital, Nineveh. He appointed the Libyan chief Necho, ruler of Memphis and Saïs. Necho I was the first king of the Twenty-sixth Dynasty (664–525 BC) of Egypt, which is also known as the \"Saïte Dynasty\".\n\nIn 664 BC, the Assyrians laid the final blow, sacking Thebes and Memphis. The same year, Taharqa died. The new Kushite king, Tantamani (664–653 BC), killed Necho I that same year when he tried to invade Lower Egypt. However, Tantamani was unable to defeat the Assyrians, who backed Necho’s son, Psamtik I. Tantamani eventually abandoned his attempt to conquer Lower Egypt and retreated to Napata. However, his authority over Upper Egypt was acknowledged until the 8th regnal year of his reign at Thebes (or 656 BC), when Psamtik I dispatched a naval fleet to Upper Egypt and succeeded in placing all of Egypt under his control.\n\nThe 25th dynasty ended with its rulers retreating to Napata. It was there (at El-Kurru and Nuri) that all 25th dynasty pharaohs are buried under the first pyramids that the Nile valley had seen since the Middle Kingdom.\n\nThe Napatan dynasty continued to rule the Kushite state, which flourished in Napata and Meroë until at least the second century AD.\n\nNapata remained the centre of the Kingdom of Kush for another two generations, from the 650s to 590 BC. Its economy was essentially based on gold, with 26th dynasty Egypt an important economic ally. \n\nNapatan architecture, paintings, writing script, and other artistic and cultural forms were in Kush style. Egyptian burial customs were practised, including the resurrection of pyramid building. Also, several ancient Egyptian deities were worshipped. The most important god was Amun, a Theban deity, and the Temple of Amun was the most important at Napata, located at the foot of Jebel Barkal.\n\nAfter the Achaemenid conquest of Egypt, Napata lost its economic influence. The Napatan region itself was desiccating, leading to less cattle and agriculture. An Achaemenid raid had seriously affected Napata in 591 BC. Finally, Napata was losing its role of economic capital to Meroë. The island of Meroë, the peninsula formed by the Nile and the Atbarah River, was an area rich in iron, which was becoming an essential source of wealth. Meroe eventually became the capital of the Kingdom of Kush, leading to the abandonment of Napata.\n\nIn 23 BC, the Governor of Roman Egypt invaded Kush after an initial attack by the queen of Meröe, razing Napata to the ground. In the \"Res Gestae Divi Augusti\" (\"Deeds of the Divine Augustus\"), Augustus claims that \"a penetration was made as far as the town of Napata, which is next to Meroe[.]\"\n\nNapata was mentioned in Giuseppe Verdi's opera \"Aida\" (1871) in Act III, when Amonasro uses Aida to learn where Rhadames will lead his army.\n\n"}
{"id": "12492153", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12492153", "title": "National Black Family Reunion", "text": "National Black Family Reunion\n\nThe Black Family Reunion Celebration is a two-day cultural event celebrating the enduring strengths and traditional values of the African-American family. It is sponsored by the National Council of Negro Women. \n\nThe 24th annual celebration held its first day's activities on the National Mall near the Washington Monument on September 12, 2009, the same day as the Taxpayer March on Washington, fueling controversy over attendance figures.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44360719", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44360719", "title": "Neo-Concrete Movement", "text": "Neo-Concrete Movement\n\nThe Neo-Concrete Movement (1959–61) was a Brazilian art movement, which developed from Rio de Janeiro’s Grupo Frente, a coalition of artists working in Concrete Art. Neoconcrete artists rejected the pure rationalist approach of concrete art and embraced a more phenomenological and less scientific art. Ferreira Gullar inspired Neo-Concrete philosophy through his essay “Theory of the Non-Object” (1959) and wrote the “Neo-Concrete Manifesto” (1959) which outlines what Neo-Concrete art should be. Lygia Clark, Hélio Oiticica, and Lygia Pape were among the primary leaders of this movement.\n\nAfter World War One, Europe witnessed a boom of art movements based upon rationalism such as De Stijl and Bauhaus. Artists believed humanity would be able to achieve progress through its ability to reason. In Latin America, ideas of rationalist and non-objective art took root in the early 1950s in reaction to the muralism controversy. Governments such as the Mexican government utilized muralists to create propaganda. Under repressive Latin American governments, artists rebelled against the idea of aiding the political regime through figurative art; therefore geometric abstraction and concretism ushered in an art that did not connote anything political or have really any meaning at all.\n\nConcrete Art was able to flourish beneath these repressive regimes because it held no political messages or incendiary material. In Brazil, ideas of rationalist art and geometric abstraction arose in the early 1950s following the establishment of a democratic republic in 1946. The period from 1946 to 1964 is known as the Second Brazilian Republic. Groups such as Grupo Ruptura in Sao Paulo and Grupo Frente in Rio de Janeiro rose. Specifically Ruptura followed the ideal of pure mathematical art which does not connote meaning outside of what it is.\n\nThe Neo-Concrete art movement arose when Grupo Frente realized that Concretism was “naïve and somewhat colonialist” and an “overly rational conception of abstract structure.”\n\nIn 1961 as the political tides began to turn, the Neo-Concrete artists disbanded no longer content to limit themselves to this one philosophy. Lygia Clark and Hélio Oiticica, leaders of the Neo-Concrete movement, put their energy into Conceptual Art. Art historians often refer to Neo-Concretism as the precursor to Conceptual Art because of the foundation of “abstruse metaphysics.” On April 1, 1964, a military coup removed Joao Goulart and established a military government in Brazil until 1985. The increase of violence called for a new kind of art that had the potential to carry meaning and deconstruct traditional thought even further. This came in the form of Conceptual Art.\n\nBrazilian poet and writer Ferreira Gullar wrote the Neo-Concrete Manifesto in 1959 and described a work of art as “something which amounts to more than the sum of its constituent elements; something which analysis may break down into various elements but which can only be understood phenomenologically.” In contrast to the Concrete Art movement, Gullar was calling for an art that was not based upon rationalism or in pursuit of pure form. He sought works of art that became active once the viewer was involved. Neo-concrete art must disassemble the limitations of the object and “express complex human realities.”\n\nWhile Concretism built its art upon the basis of logic and objective knowledge with color, space, and form conveying universalism and objectivity, the Neo-Concrete artists saw colors, space, and form as “not [belonging] to this or that artistic language, but to the living and indeterminate experience of man.” Though Neo-Concrete Art still maintained Concretism as the foundation for their ideas, Neo-Concretists believed objectivity and mathematical principles alone could not accomplish the Concretist goal of creating a transcendental visual language.\n\nNeo-Concretists believed that artworks were not simply static representations or forms; rather “art should be like living organisms” In Lygia Clark’s theoretical statement written to address the intentions of the Neo-Concrete artists, she explains that as artists they wish to “found a new, expressive ‘space’.” This movement believed that through a direct relationship between the artwork and the viewer this “new, expressive ‘space’” could be constructed. Neo-Concrete artists sought to create a multi-sensorial space which caused the spectator to feel more acutely their own body and existence.\n\nClark also wrote of how Neo-Concretism sought to decipher the nature of humanity by creating a “medium of expression” which allowed people to “become aware of unity as an organic, living whole.” It was not just restoring an awareness of the spectator’s body but also of humanity’s communal existence.\n\nThe first Neo-Concrete Exhibition was held in Rio de Janeiro in March 1959, and the exhibiting artists were Amilcar de Castro, Ferreira Gullar, Franz Weissmann, Lygia Clark, Lygia Pape, Reynaldo_Jardim, and Theon Spanudis.\n\nThis manifesto was written by Ferreira Gullar, and was signed by Amilcar de Castro, Ferreira Gullar, Franz Weissmann, Lygia Clark, Lygia Pape, Reynaldo Jardim and Theon Spanudis. It was published on 22 of March 1959 in \"Journal do Brazil.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17822550", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17822550", "title": "North Korean Review", "text": "North Korean Review\n\nNorth Korean Review is a biannual peer-reviewed academic journal published by the Institute for North Korean Studies (INKS), at the University of Detroit Mercy in the United States. The journal was established in 2005 by INKS and McFarland & Company. It publishes policy-oriented articles, short papers, commentaries, and case studies on all aspects of North Korea, including culture, history, economics, business, religion, politics, and international relations.\n\nThe editor of the journal is Yongho Kim, and the managing editor is Lonnie Edge.\n\nThe stated purpose of the journal is to provide an improved understanding of the complexity of North Korea. In March 2006, the \"Library Journal\" said that it is \"the first journal of its kind\" and that it \"belongs in most university libraries\".\n"}
{"id": "5785194", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5785194", "title": "Oriental Research Institute &amp; Manuscripts Library", "text": "Oriental Research Institute &amp; Manuscripts Library\n\nThe Oriental Research Institute & Manuscripts Library (ORI & MSS), in the University of Kerala, is one of the leading centres of Indological Studies in India. This world recognised institute, situated in Thiruvananthapuram (Trivandrum), does research in fields connected with manuscripts. The department is microfilming the manuscripts of certain technical subjects.\n\nThe genesis of this library is to be traced to the orders of Ayilyam Thirunal, Maharaja of Travancore to collect all manuscripts in the state so as to be kept in the safe custody of the Palace Library. Considering the overwhelming enthusiasm from the Orientalists all over the world, during early nineteen hundred Swathi Thirunal Maharaja (the then King of Travancore) published many of the manuscripts in the Palace Library and the manuscripts collection of ancient families.\n\nORI & MSS is a treasure trove of Indian culture. The library has over 70,000 works in 30,000 copies mainly of palm leaf manuscripts. In addition, some paper manuscripts, a few copper plates, writings on Bhurjapatra (birch bark), Agarutvak (the bark of \"Aquilaria malaccensis\") and textiles are also found in the collection. The manuscript collection also includes those belonging to other different Indian states and nations such as Burma, Malaysia, Indonesia, Nepal etc. Another interesting fact is that about eighty per cent of the collections are in Sanskrit. The manuscript collection of this department is an invaluable source for the study of ancient scripts as Grantha, Vattezhuttu, Sarada, Nandinagari, Grantha Tamil etc. The initial moulds of scripts of modern Indian languages like Bengali, Marathi, Gujarati, Kannada, Telugu, Oriya, Assamese and Burmese are also found.\n\nIn 1908 T. Ganapati Sastri became the curator of this library.\nSambasiva Sastri succeeded Ganapati Sastri as the curator of this library.He wrote Citrabhyudaya Kavya about Travancore king.\n\nThe Oriental Research Institute and Manuscripts Library is open from 8 am to 8 pm all working days and from 2 pm to 8 pm on Sundays. \n\n"}
{"id": "3272050", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3272050", "title": "Parody science", "text": "Parody science\n\nParody science, sometimes called spoof science, is the act of mocking science in a satirical way. Science can be parodied for a purpose, ranging from social commentary and making political points, to humor for its own sake.\n\nParody science is different from science humor or from real science that happens to be humorous, in that parody science has little or no basis in real science.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20043355", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20043355", "title": "Plas Mawr", "text": "Plas Mawr\n\nPlas Mawr () is an Elizabethan townhouse in Conwy, North Wales, dating from the 16th century. The property was built by Robert Wynn, a member of the local gentry, following his marriage to his first wife, Dorothy Griffith. Plas Mawr occupied a plot of land off Conwy's High Street and was constructed in three phases between 1576 and 1585 at a total cost of around £800. Wynn was known for his hospitality, and the household was supported by Wynn's local dairy herds, orchards and gardens. On his death he laid out complex instructions for dividing his estate; the resulting law-case took years to resolve, effectively preventing the redevelopment of the house and preserving it in its original condition.\n\nAfter 1683 Plas Mawr passed into the hands of the Mostyn family and ceased to be used as a family home. It was rented out for various purposes during the 18th and 19th centuries, including for use as a school, cheap lodgings and finally as the headquarters of the Royal Cambrian Academy of Art. In the 20th century the house became increasingly well known for its preserved Elizabethan architecture, but the costs of maintenance grew considerably and its condition deteriorated. The Welsh heritage agency Cadw took over the management of the property in 1993 and carried out an extensive, 42-month-long restoration project at a total cost of £3.3 million. With many of its rooms redecorated to resemble their condition in 1665, and replanted Renaissance gardens, it is now run as a tourist attraction.\n\nArchitecturally, Plas Mawr is almost unchanged from the 16th century, and the historian Rick Turner considers the house to be \"the finest surviving town house of the Elizabethan era\". Plas Mawr shows a blend of continental Renaissance and local North Wales influences, with an innovative floor-plan and architectural detailing. The house still retains much of its original plasterwork, which incorporates symbols, badges and heraldry, which the historian Peter Smith has described as \"the most perfect and the most complete memorial to Elizabethan Wales.\" The architecture of the house influenced other contemporary projects in North Wales, and was later copied during the 19th and 20th centuries in buildings around the town of Conwy, including the local police station and nearby hotel.\n\nPlas Mawr was built in the town of Conwy between 1576 and 1585 by Robert Wynn. Robert came from a prosperous local family and entered the service of first Sir Walter Stonor and then Sir Philip Hoby, both administrators and senior officials to King Henry VIII. Robert fought and was injured at the Siege of Boulogne in 1544, took part in military campaigns in Scotland and traveled extensively across Europe. He invested in land across North Wales and married his first wife, Dorothy Griffith, a member of the local gentry, in 1570. Once married, Robert needed a suitable house and chose to settle in Conwy, a prosperous town that was known in the 16th century for its genteel society.\nIn 1570, Robert paid Hugh Mershe £200 for an existing \"mansion house\" in Conwy, positioned in the middle of a burgage plot on what is now Crown Lane. More land to the north of this was purchased from a Richard Peake in 1576 for £40, and work then began on the north wing of Plas Mawr, which was completed by the following year. Mershe's former house was pulled down to allow the preparation of the foundations of the rest of the building, including the digging of fresh drains. Robert lived in the completed north wing until 1580, when the central and south ranges were built, finishing the main part of Plas Mawr.\n\nRobert went on to rent further land around the north of Plas Mawr. The land at the south end of the burgage, however, facing onto the High Street, belonged to a Robert Laythwood, who had a house there. Wynne purchased this in 1585, probably for the relatively high price of £40, and demolished it to enable the final phase of development, using the space to build a gatehouse that formed the new entrance to Plas Mawr. Further small pieces of land were bought on the north-west side of the house and converted into an ornamental garden, bringing the total cost of the land to around £300. The result was the grandest Elizabethan town house in Wales at the time.\n\nThese three phases of house construction – 1576–77, 1580 and 1585 – were probably overseen by several different senior craftsmen, possibly working to an original plan determined by a surveyor or mason working at the English royal court. Judging by the details of the roof design, a single master carpenter may have been used for all three parts of the build; he probably worked elsewhere across the region during these years, including on 15 other houses and two churches. Both of the first two phases of work were probably conducted by the same team of plasterers, possibly from London, and they used as much as of lime plaster on the rendering. Timber and slates were brought down the Conwy valley for the house, with grey Silurian grit rubble quarried from the hills near the town, and finer sandstone brought from nearby Deganwy. The total of the building work was probably around £500.\n\nEntertainment and hospitality were important to a gentleman's 16th-century social status and, according to his nephew, the antiquarian John Wynn, Robert Wynn kept a \"worthy plentiful house\". The household was supported by milk from Wynn's own dairy herds, and by food from the orchards, gardens and a fish trap that he owned around the town. The house had its own brewing, baking and dairy facilities, and further supplies were bought in from regional merchants.\n\nDorothy died in 1586 and Robert married Dorothy Dymock, with whom he had seven children at Plas Mawr. When Robert died in 1598 he left a complex will that led to legal disputes between the family and the executor, Sir Roger Mostyn. The legal case effectively halted any further development of the house, by now the most prominent in Conwy, until its resolution in 1630. The property passed to Robert's grandson, another Robert Wynn, in 1637, and onto his daughter, Elin in 1683. By 1665, the house was equipped to a quality and style that would have put it only just behind the houses of the major gentry families in Caernarfonshire. Elin then married into the Wynne family, and made little use of the house, and it ultimately passed by marriage into the Mostyn family.\n\nThe Mostyns' principal residence was Mostyn Hall in Flintshire and so the family rented out Plas Mawr to various tenants during the 18th and 19th centuries. In the 18th century the gatehouse was used as a courthouse and the main house as cheap housing. In the 19th century, parts of the house were converted into a school and space for other small businesses, as well as still being used for domestic accommodation: in 1881, the house had 25 residents. Minor changes were made to Plas Mawr in the process, such as the installation of partition walls to subdivide the larger rooms, but it remained largely intact. The Mostyns offered the house for sale in 1870, as part of a package of land including Bodysgallen Hall, but there were no offers.\n\nBy the 1880s, the Royal Cambrian Academy of Art became concerned about the condition of Plas Mawr, and in 1887 Lord Mostyn agreed to lease the building to the Academy for use as their headquarters. The architects Arthur and Herbert Baker were commissioned to survey the building, conduct repairs and remove some of the post-17th century alterations, and J. R. Furness then carried out conservation work on much of the plasterwork. The Victoria Gallery was built onto the north-west side of the house to hold artistic exhibitions, and a weather vane was added to the top of the building to celebrate Queen Victoria's Diamond Jubilee.\n\nBy the early 20th century, Plas Mawr's historical significance was increasingly well understood, but the costs of maintaining the house grew considerably. By the middle of the century, the finer sandstone had corroded and the timber beams were deteriorating; a 1956 survey described them as \"much decayed\". The plaster ceilings were bowing and coming away from their timbers. The Academy of Art sought government and private assistance to undertake temporary and partial repairs, but these were insufficient and in 1993 it moved into new accommodation and the property was passed into the control of the state, under the management of the Welsh heritage agency Cadw.\n\nCadw carried out a major restoration project on the house over the next 42 months, combining large scale conservation with detailed surveying and archaeological analysis. The 19th-century Victoria Galley was demolished in 1995, and the bare, external stonework was re-rendered and lime washed. Large parts of the property were restored as they might have appeared in 1665, assisted by the record of Robert Wynn the younger's will, with the exception of the attic, which was restored to its probable 19th-century appearance. The intention of this was to emphasize the colour and comfort of the original building, to prevent it appearing inauthentically bleak and austere. The Great Chamber is available for wedding ceremonies. Other sections of the house were redeveloped to hold exhibition displays and other visitor facilities. \n\nThe restoration included installing original and replica interior furnishings, using wall hangings woven from Kidderminster stuff and Dornix. In what historical consultant Charles Kightly has praised as a \"brave and successful\" decision, much of the plasterwork was repainted, using reversible techniques, to resemble its 17th-century condition. In total the project cost £3.3 million, and won the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors Building Conservation Award. Further work followed in 2006 to restore the gardens, again attempting to replicate the style prevalent in 1665.\n\nIn the 21st century the house is operated as a tourist attraction by Cadw. The historian Rick Turner considers Plas Mawr to be \"the finest surviving town house of the Elizabethan era\" and it is protected under UK law as a Grade I listed building and as a scheduled monument.\n\nArchitecturally, Plas Mawr is almost unchanged from the 16th century, making it a very rare survival from this period. The architectural style is a product of the broader Renaissance influences prevalent across Europe at the time. Robert Wynn spent time in Germany, and the style of Plas Mawr makes use of North German Gothic themes, particularly in its use of symmetry, the pedimented windows at the front of the house, faceted finials and crow-stepped gables. These features were already popular in England when the house was built, and indeed Plas Mawr is very similar in design to Eastbury Manor House, the two possibly being based off the same architectural plan. Some of these features had already begun to spread into Wales – crow-stepped gables, for example, were already being used in Flintshire by the 1580s – but others were ground breaking in Wales, such as the use of ovolo-moulded and dormer windows. Nonetheless, Robert Wynn was only an emerging member of the gentry, and his house was not as large or as sophisticated as contemporary grander Renaissance properties built in larger rural settings.\n\nSome of the house's architecture also reflects the influences from contemporary buildings across North Wales, in particular Gwydir Castle, built by Robert Wynn's father John. Plas Mawr lacks a fashionable long gallery, for example, which was popular in England at the time, and was already beginning to appear in Welsh houses. Instead, it has a rear turret, or belvedere, which is raised prominently above the height of the rest of the house, overlooking the town: this was a slightly antiquated feature, but was widely used in other Wynn family properties, including Bodysgallen Hall. The design of Plas Mawr influenced other buildings in North Wales at the time, including the redecoration of Gwydir Castle, Maenan Hall further up the Conwy valley, Plas Mawr in Caernarfon and Hen Blas in Beaumaris. It also later shaped the architecture of 19th- and 20th-century buildings in Conwy itself, surviving examples of which include the town's police station and the Castlebank Hotel.\n\nModern visitors typically enter the house from the High Street to the south, passing through the gatehouse, across the lower courtyard into the hall of the main building. Plas Mawr's gatehouse was only the third such entrance building to be built in North Wales, despite gatehouses being an important part of English Elizabethan architecture, designed to show off the house and provide a suitably dignified entry for visitors. Few houses in towns had the physical space for a gatehouse like Plas Mawr's. Originally, the gatehouse would have contained a suite of rooms for the steward of the house, Richard Wynn.\n\nThe main house forms an \"H\"-shape, with a north and a south wing joined in the middle, all facing onto an upper courtyard. The upper courtyard was key to the way that the main house functioned: it linked almost all the ground floor rooms in the house, as well as providing access to the cellars, and gave an impressive view of the turret towers. In the south wing was the hall and the buttery, with the red and white chambers above them. Probably when Plas Mawr was first built, and certainly by 1665, the hall would have been used to meet ordinary visitors and for servants' meals, rather than forming the main room of the house; the wooden benches and table on display are original to the property. Traditionally, the service rooms in houses had been placed at the far end of the main hall, but Plas Mawr departed from this design. The service area, including the kitchen and pantry, was instead placed in the centre of the building, between the parlour and the hall; this radical redesign was copied at nearby Hafod Lwyfog. The restored kitchen is equipped with a \"batterie de cuisine\", with a combination of original and replica equipment.\n\nAbove these rooms was the great chamber, the main room which formed the ceremonial centre of the house. In the north wing was the brewhouse and the parlour, with two chambers above them, the latter possibly used by Dorothy Wynn as her bedroom. The private bedrooms for the family and guests were each equipped with a fireplace, an important status symbol in the period. The roof attics of the house contained a great deal of space for accommodating the household servants. The attic above the great chamber has a grand timber roof with arch-braced collar trusses, joined using an unusual system called \"double pegging\", which is only used in the Conwy valley during the late 16th century. It appears that the great chamber's ceiling was originally supposed to be open, looking up to the timbers with the trusses visible, but a mistake in the construction of the walls meant that one side of the chamber no longer fitted smoothly with the timbers, creating an ugly appearance; a plaster ceiling was then added to hide the error.\n\nThe gardens behind the house may originally have resembled the gardens at Bodysgallen Hall, which were laid out in the Renaissance style popular across Europe. The slope of the land results in Plas Mawr's gardens forming the upper and lower terraces, and these have been replanted and restored in an attempt to show them as they might have appeared in 1665. The summerhouse is based on a version shown in a contemporary painting of Llanerch's gardens, and the flowerpots are modeled on those found in excavations at Tredegar House.\n\nSeven rooms still possess elements of their original plasterwork, which the historian Peter Smith has described as \"the most perfect and the most complete memorial to Elizabethan Wales\", and their original wooden carved panels that line the walls. The plasterwork includes extensive heraldry, badges and symbols: in the upper north range alone, 22 different heraldic emblems are molded into the ceilings and walls. The gatehouse shows the royal arms, as do the great chamber and the parlour, probably because they were intended to host senior guests. The badges of numerous monarchs are included throughout the house, including those of Richard II, Richard III, Henry IV and Henry VII. The badges of other prominent nobles, such as Robert Dudley, are also featured in the house.\n\nThe plasterwork in the parlour displays the arms of Robert Wynn himself, and Robert Wynn's bedchamber above the brewhouse shows the combined arms of the Wynn and Griffith families, which are generally given equal prominence throughout the house. Robert Wynn's arms are most prominent in the hall and the bedchambers, where the royal arms are smaller and less prominent. In the 16th century, Wynn's heraldry would probably have been echoed in the furnishings of the house, including the fabrics, cups and silverware. The plasterwork also incorporates a number of classical themes, but these are not as well executed as the badges and other emblems: the historian Rick Turner describes them as \"rather token additions\", and Smith considers this part of the decoration to be \"naive\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52898110", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52898110", "title": "Queer of color critique", "text": "Queer of color critique\n\nQueer of color critique is a methodology that recognizes the intersections of race, gender, class, sexuality, capital, and nation, and disidentifies with the universality of social categories present in canonical sociology and historical materialism. Roderick Ferguson is credited with coining this term in his 2004 book \"Aberrations in Black, \"and draws from woman of color feminism, postcolonial studies, queer theory and African American studies. In his critique of canonical sociology, Ferguson argues that racialized heteronormativity and heteropatriarchy has played a conspicuous role in shaping sociology and social policy, and recognizes its intersection with revolutionary nationalism. Queer of color critique operates as a method for building unlikely coalitions across different identity categories. In framing queer of color critique, Ferguson draws from Barbara Smith and the Combahee River Collective's use of coalitional politics to address gender, race, and sexuality in context with capitalist expansion.\n\nQueer of color critique has been taken up by multiple scholars as an attempt at a more intersectional framework on which to build and extend their work in various, sometimes intersecting academic subjects.\n\nThough most references at the intersection of queerness and indigeneity fall on Two-Spirit identity and ideas surrounding it, queer of color critique extends the discussion to settler colonialism, future potentialities of Native identity and life, and general discourse about how Native Studies as an academic study can benefit from a sort of \"queering\". According to scholar Andrea Smith, looking at indigeneity from this perspective questions the limitations of a \"subjectless\" or \"postidentity\" analysis in regards to the shedding of a particular ethnic identity, which in itself has roots in colonialist and nationalist ideology. On the other hand, even this sort of critique does not fully acknowledge the extent of the absence of indigeneity in the context of direct and indirect investment in settler colonialism by those of color doing the critiquing.\n\nThe unraveling of colonialist ideology,—the belief in a normative society—according to scholar Emma Perez, is necessary to fully understand national histories and identities, specifically of queer individuals.\n\nQueer diasporic critique can be considered an extension of and complement to queer of color critique in that it considers ethnic and cultural identity as an underlying context when analyzing and critiquing arguments based on Eurocentric, white centered queer theories, as well as critiquing the heteronormativity of area studies. Oftentimes, these ideas are connected to ideas of nationhood and national identity. In the words of scholar Gayatri Gopinath, \"While both queer of color and queer diasporic analysis are part of a collective endeavor to reshape queer studies through a thorough engagement with questions of race, nationalism, and transnationalism, it may also be useful to explore some of the points at which the interventions and emphases of each project both intersect and diverge.\" In this respect, critique emphasizing diaspora tends to focus more on a \"global restructuring of capital and its attendant gender and sexual hierarchies\" and the creation of \"home\" in regards to diaspora and transnationalism.\n\nAn example of queer of color critique in practice can be seen in the analysis of queer Muslims in Europe done by scholar Fatima El-Tayeb, which touches on the larger themes explored in queer theory. Among these is the idea of \"coming-out\" as a person of diaspora, which challenges the currently held notion of its role in the creation of a \"normative, healthy and desirable LGBT identity\". Another describes how the idea of Islamophobia permeates into the intersectional oppressions faced by queer Muslims in the west. The ideas of migration and \"home\" are also critiqued in that the ethnic migrant laborer lives amongst an \"increasingly segregated, criminalized and policed multi-ethnic population of color\". These queer diasporic and queer of color critiques therefore act as a lens through which to view homonormativity and the various facets through which is functions.\n\nAs a type of community manifestation of this type of critique, the queer of color activist group takes an intersectional, colored approach to queer activism. This helps undermine binaries such as the \"Muslim/European dichotomy to the normative coming out narrative\", which, according to El-Tayeb, perpetuate homonormativity and racism.\n\nSome notable scholars who have incorporated queer of color critique into their work are Roderick Ferguson, Jesus Values-Morales, Andrea Smith, Gayatri Gopinath, Fatima El-Tayeb, Martin Manalansan IV, Juana María Rodríguez, José Esteban Muñoz, Emma Perez, Edward Brockenbrough, Salvador Vidal-Ortiz, Amy Villarejo, Jasbir Puar, Scott Lauria Morgensen, Kevin K. Kumashiro, Lawrence La Fountain-Stokes, Chandan Reddy, Jennifer C. Nash, and others.\n\n"}
{"id": "49197543", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49197543", "title": "Roman Tomb (Silistra)", "text": "Roman Tomb (Silistra)\n\nThe Roman Tomb of Silistra (, \"Rimska grobnitsa v Silistra\") is an Ancient Roman burial tomb in the town of Silistra in northeastern Bulgaria. Dating to the mid-4th century AD, the Roman Tomb is the best-preserved architectural monument of the Ancient Roman city of Durostorum. The tomb is considered \"one of the most investigated and most discussed monuments of the late antique art in Bulgaria\" and the Balkans, owing in large part to the quality and extent of its interior frescoes.\n\nThough the influence of Christianity had reached Silistra by the time, the Roman Tomb is clearly an example of pagan art commissioned by a pagan owner. Thus, it is considered likely that it predates Theodosius I's persecution of Roman paganism. Its construction also likely preceded the Gothic invasion of Durostorum of 376–378, which caused great turmoil in the city. The invasion may have caused the master's family depicted in the tomb to flee the city, explaining the lack of burials in the tomb. In any case, the tomb must be stylistically ascribed to the 4th century and specifically to Theodosius I's reign.\n\nThe Roman Tomb was coincidentally discovered in 1942 in the southern outskirts of Silistra, a major town in Southern Dobruja on the banks of the Lower Danube. Silistra had only recently been transferred by Romania back to Bulgaria as part of the 1940 Treaty of Craiova. Since 1984, the Roman Tomb of Silistra has been on UNESCO's Tentative List of World Heritage Sites.\n\nThe stone tomb features a single burial chamber and measures . It has a west-east orientation, with the entrance on the east wall and a semi-cylindrical brick vault. It is located amidst the ruins of a necropolis from Late Antiquity which included other similar structures.\n\nCeramic plates, rectangular in shape and painted using the fresco-secco technique, cover the entirety of its floor. In contrast to most other known Roman tombs from the period in the Balkans, the entire interior is covered by multi-coloured mural paintings. The northern, southern and eastern walls feature a procession of servants, whereas the frescoes of the western wall, directly opposite the entrances, depict the master and his wife.\n\nA frieze running along the walls of the tomb contains 11 panels featuring the portraits of male and female slaves bringing various gifts and garments to the masters. The procession runs from either side of the central panel that portrays the masters, providing for a symmetrical composition. The tomb's decoration also includes hunting scenes, candlesticks, plants and animals, including peacocks and pigeons. Overall, the decoration's remarkable level of preservation and the quality of the mural paintings makes the tomb a \"unique example of art and life\" in the outer regions of the Roman Empire during the turbulent 4th century.\n\nThe Roman Tomb of Silistra is situated at the intersection of the Sedmi Septemvri and Boyka Voyvoda Streets in the town. As of 2016, it can only be toured after a prior reservation at the Regional Historical Museum of Silistra.\n\n"}
{"id": "36970690", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36970690", "title": "San Francisco City Guides", "text": "San Francisco City Guides\n\nSan Francisco City Guides (SFCG) is a non-profit organization that offers over 90 different walking tours of San Francisco presented by trained, volunteer guides. San Francisco City Guides was founded in 1978 as a program of the San Francisco Public Library (SFPL) and the San Francisco Parks Alliance. Tours are offered daily, regardless of weather. Reservations are accepted for groups of eight or more, as well as for special date or time requests.\n\nSan Francisco City Guides was founded after frequent requests for a tour of City Hall. Gladys Hansen, City Archivist, San Francisco History Room, City Hall, trained a few volunteers to give tours of City Hall and the San Francisco Civic Center to dignitaries, visitors and students. There were no schedules and tours were provided on an as-needed basis.\n\nWith ever-increasing requests, Judith Waldhorn Lynch, who was hired through C.E.T.A. was assigned to work with Gladys in the History Room in 1977. Lynch set about recruiting volunteers and supporters to formally launch the program which would later be named “City Guides.”\n\nThe first training class produced 67 volunteer guides. City Hall/Civic Center was the single tour offered.\n\nIn 1982, Mayor Dianne Feinstein asked City Guides be official guides for new Moscone Center. In 1984, City Guides was appointed as San Francisco's official Docent by Mayor Feinstein.\n\nIn 1986, City Guides was asked to be official Bridge Guides for the 50th Anniversary Celebration by the Friends of the Golden Gate Bridge; this tour became the eleventh regularly offered tour.\n\nSan Francisco Public Library became City Guides' primary sponsor, while City Guides became a project of The Tides Center, which now serves as fiscal agent, replacing Friends of the Library in 1996.\n\nIn 2001, City Guides received the Ron Ross Founders Award from the San Francisco History Association, in recognition of its invaluable contribution to the preservation of San Francisco history.\n\nCity Guides collaborated with San Francisco Beautiful and Wilderness Press to celebrate the 20th anniversary of a book written by a City Guide, Adan Bakalinsky, \"Stairway Walks in San Francisco\" in 2004.\n\nIn 2008, City Guides celebrated its 30th anniversary with an event held at the Main Library. In City Guides' 30th year, 30,000 walkers attended their tours.\n\nIn 2012, San Francisco City Guides started a partnership with the San Francisco Museum and Historical Society to provide historical, cultural and architectural walks.\n\nCity Guide volunteers form a diverse group, united by their passion for sharing San Francisco with others. Volunteers come from all over the Bay Area and have backgrounds such as teachers, engineers, students, retired professionals, lawyers, historians, real estate agents, journalists and even professional tour guides.\n"}
{"id": "1571769", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1571769", "title": "Sign Systems Studies", "text": "Sign Systems Studies\n\nSign Systems Studies is a peer-reviewed academic journal on semiotics edited at the Department of Semiotics of the University of Tartu and published by the University of Tartu Press. It is the oldest periodical in the field. It was initially published in Russian and since 1998 in English with Russian and Estonian language abstracts. The journal was established by Juri Lotman as \"Trudy po Znakovym Sistemam\" in 1964. Since 1998 it has been edited by Kalevi Kull, Mihhail Lotman, and Peeter Torop. The journal is available online from the Philosophy Documentation Center, indexed by WoS and Scopus, and starting 2012 also on an open access platform.\n\n"}
{"id": "31048445", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31048445", "title": "South Atlantic Review", "text": "South Atlantic Review\n\nThe South Atlantic Review is a quarterly peer-reviewed academic journal published by the South Atlantic Modern Language Association. It was established in 1935 and publishes articles and reviews in the fields of language and literature. As of Summer 2014, its editor-in-chief is Barton Palmer.\n"}
{"id": "25970046", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25970046", "title": "Spanish immigration to Cuba", "text": "Spanish immigration to Cuba\n\nSpanish immigration to Cuba began in 1492, when Christopher Columbus first landed on the island, and continues to the present day. The first sighting of a Spanish boat approaching the island was on 27 or 28 October 1492, probably at Bariay on the eastern point of the island. Columbus, on his first voyage to the Americas, sailed south from what is now The Bahamas to explore the northeast coast of Cuba and the northern coast of Hispaniola. Columbus discovered the island believing it to be a peninsula of the Asian mainland.\n\nIn 1511, Diego Velázquez de Cuéllar set out with three ships and an army of 300 men from Hispaniola to form the first Spanish settlement in Cuba, with orders from Spain to conquer the island. The settlement was at Baracoa, but the new settlers were to be greeted with stiff resistance from the local Taíno population. The Taínos were initially organized by cacique (\"chieftain\") Hatuey, who had himself relocated from Hispaniola to escape the brutalities of Spanish rule on that island. After a prolonged guerrilla campaign, Hatuey and successive chieftains were captured and burnt alive, and within three years the Spanish had gained control of the island. In 1514, a settlement was founded in what was to become Havana.\n\nSpanish was brought to Cuba by the Spaniards and is the dialect of the Spanish language as it is spoken in Cuba.\nCuban Spanish is most similar to, and originates largely from the Spanish spoken in the Canary Islands. Cuba owes much of its speech patterns to the heavy Canarian migrations, of the 19th and early 20th centuries.\n\nCuba is traditionally a Catholic country. The Roman Catholic religion was brought to Cuba by Spanish colonialists at the beginning of the 16th century, is the most prevalent professed faith. After the revolution, Cuba became an officially atheistic state and restricted religious practice. Since the Fourth Cuban Communist Party Congress in 1991, restrictions have been eased and, according to the National Catholic Observer, direct challenges by state institutions to the right to religion have all but disappeared, though the church still faces restrictions of written and electronic communication, and can only accept donations from state-approved funding sources. The Roman Catholic Church is made up of the Cuban Catholic Bishops' Conference (COCC), led by Jaime Lucas Ortega y Alamino, Cardinal Archbishop of Havana. \n\nThe Roman Catholic Church estimates that 60 percent of the population is Catholic. But the Catholic Church is subject to government restrictions, and it is not allowed to have its own schools or media.\nAccording to statistics, Catholics represent 71.79% of Havana's population, 69.24% Matanzas, 63.15% Camagüey and Santiago de Cuba having the lowest percentage of Catholics at 23.81%.\n\nBullfighting as well as traditional cultural fiesta's, also saw a presence in Cuba during its colonial period uninterrupted from 1538 to 1899. \nIn Havana there were many plaza de toros with many of the torero's coming from Cadiz, Spain.\nIn the first half of the 19th century, bullfights were held in Sancti Spíritus in 1850 and other cities. \nOne of the most prominent bullfighters at the time was \"Cheche de la Habana\" José Marrero Báez (1870–1909) born in Havana, Cuba and died performing in Ciudad Jiménez, Mexico. In the 19th century, Havana and Montevideo were major bullfighting cities which eventually lost the tradition.\n\nThe European heritage of Cubans comes primarily from one source: the Spaniards (including Canarians, Asturians, Catalans, Galicians and Castilians).\nThe native white population are nearly all descendants of the Spaniards and most non-white Cubans also have Spanish ancestry.\n\nOther results show that between 1902 and 1931, 780,400 (60.8%) were from Spain, 197,600 (15.4%) from Haiti, 115,600 (9.0%) from Jamaica and 190,300 (14.8%) other countries.\n\nAccording to current statistics, there are over 9,566 Canarians, 23,185 Andalusians and 11,114 Galicians living in Cuba.\n\n"}
{"id": "378914", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=378914", "title": "Speed reading", "text": "Speed reading\n\nSpeed reading is any of several techniques used to improve one's ability to read quickly. Speed reading methods include chunking and minimizing subvocalization. The many available speed reading training programs include books, videos, software, and seminars. There is scientific controversy surrounding the domain of speed reading.\n\nPsychologists and educational specialists working on visual acuity used a tachistoscope to conclude, that with training, an average person could identify minute images flashed on the screen for only one five-hundredth of a second (2 ms). Though the images used were of airplanes, the results had implications for reading.\nIt was not until the late 1950s that a portable, reliable, and convenient device would be developed as a tool for increasing reading speed. Evelyn Wood, a researcher and schoolteacher, was committed to understanding why some people were naturally faster at reading and tried to force herself to read very quickly. In 1958, while brushing off the pages of a book she had thrown down in despair, she discovered that the sweeping motion of her hand across the page caught the attention of her eyes, and helped them move more smoothly across the page. She then used the hand as a pacer. Wood first taught the method at the University of Utah, before launching it to the public as Evelyn Wood's Reading Dynamics in Washington, D.C. in 1959.\n\nSkimming is a process of speed reading that involves visually searching the sentences of a page for clues to the main idea or when reading an essay, it can mean reading the beginning and ending for summary information, then optionally the first sentence of each paragraph to quickly determine whether to seek still more detail, as determined by the questions or purpose of the reading. For some people, this comes naturally, but is usually acquired by practice. Skimming is usually seen more in adults than in children. It is \nconducted at a higher rate (700 words per minute and above) than normal reading for comprehension (around 200–230 wpm), and results in lower comprehension rates, especially with information-rich reading material. Scanning is the process where one actively looks for information using a mind-map (organizing information in a visually hierarchical manner that showcases the interrelatedness of the information for better retrievability) formed from skimming. These techniques are used by meta-guiding your eyes. Scanning includes the main point as well as headings and important information.\n\nMeta guiding is the visual guiding of the eye using a finger or pointer, such as a pen, in order for the eye to move faster along the length of a passage of text. It involves drawing invisible shapes on a page of text in order to broaden the visual span for speed reading. For example, an audience of customers at a speed reading seminar will be instructed to use a finger or pen to make these shapes on a page and told that this will speed up their visual cortex, increase their visual span to take in the whole line, and even imprint the information into their subconscious for later retrieval. It has also been claimed to reduce subvocalization (saying words in your head rather than grasping the idea), thereby speeding up reading. Because this encourages the eye to skim over the text, it can reduce comprehension and memory, and lead to missing important details of the text. An emphasis on viewing each word, albeit briefly without regression (Regression is an unconscious process where the eyes go forward two or three “stops” and then go back.) is required for this method to be effective. E.g. S movement and Z movement\n\nSpeed reading is a skill honed through practice. Reading a text involves comprehension of the material. In speed reading practice this is done through multiple reading processes: preview, overview, read, review and recite; and by read and recall (recording through writing a short summary or a mental outline) exercises. Another important method for better comprehension is the SQ3R process. These processes help an individual to retain most of the presented ideas from a reading material. A better focus in comprehension is attained through a better reading process with good understanding of the topic.\n\nTypes of reading greatly affect the speed of reading. Each of us is wired differently from environmental influences. Many have learned to read word by word from grade school, and have never been taught or informed the need to improve upon that method. When reading word by word, our eyes often skip back to a previous word or line; we might also fixate on a single word even after it has been read. These mechanical issues slow us down while reading and comprehending.\n\nThere are three types of reading\n\nMental readers generally read at approximately 250 words per minute. Auditory readers read at approximately 450 words per minute. Visual readers read at approximately 700 words per minute. Proficient readers are able to read 280 - 310 wpm without compromising comprehension.\n\nSkimming alone may not be ideal when complete comprehension of the text is the main objective. Skimming is mainly used when researching and getting an overall idea of the text. Nonetheless, when time is limited, skimming or skipping over text can aid comprehension when layered reading is employed. Duggan & Payne (2009) compared skimming with reading normally, given only enough time to read normally through half of a text. They found that the main points of the full text were better understood after skimming (which could view the full text) than after normal reading (which only read half the text). There was no difference between the groups in their understanding of less important information from the text.\n\nIn contrast, other findings suggest that speed reading courses which teach techniques that largely constitute skimming of written text result in a lower comprehension rate (below 50% comprehension on standardized comprehension tests) (Carver 1992).\n\nComprehension is considered to be better if the text is skimmed and main key words are underlined before regular reading due to the function of RAS (Reticular Activating System) in the brain. This is the part of the brain that dislikes incomplete information. It aids the reader to find the information close to a topic. For the RAS is activated by the questions and prioritized information, this makes the reader more focused while reading with a purpose.\n\nArvin Vohra, in \"Introduction to Speed Reading and Rapid Analytical Reading\" claims that material structure (close and open forms) based and grammar based reading can lead to a simultaneous increase in speed and comprehension. Just as moving from letter by letter reading in early childhood to word by word reading in later childhood increases speed and comprehension, he argues that reading clause by clause or phrase by phrase can cause a similar increase in speed and comprehension.\n\nComputer programs are available to help instruct speed reading students. Some programs present the data as a serial stream, since the brain handles text more efficiently by breaking it into such a stream before parsing and interpreting it. The 2000 National Reading Panel (NRP) report (p. 3-1) seems to support such a mechanism.\n\nTo increase speed, some older programs required readers to view the center of the screen while the lines of text around it grew longer. They also presented several objects (instead of text) moving line by line or bouncing around the screen; users had to follow the object(s) with only their eyes. A number of researchers criticize using objects instead of words as an effective training method, claiming that the only way to read faster is to read actual text. Many of the newer speed reading programs use built-in text, and they primarily guide users through the lines of an on-screen book at defined speeds. Often the text is highlighted to indicate where users should focus their eyes; they are not expected to read by pronouncing the words, but instead to read by viewing the words as complete images. The exercises are also intended to train readers to eliminate subvocalization, though it has not been proven that this will increase reading speed.\n\nCommon controversies in speed reading are between its intent and nature with traditional concepts like comprehension vs speed; reading vs skimming; popular psychology vs evidence-based psychology. Much of the controversy is raised over these points. This is mainly because a reading comprehension level of 50% is deemed unusable by some educationalists (Carver 1992). Speed reading advocates claim that it is a great success and even state that it is a demonstration of good comprehension for many purposes (Buzan 2000). The trade-off between \"speed\" and comprehension must be analyzed with respect to the type of reading that is being done, the risks associated with mis-understanding due to low comprehension, and the benefits associated with getting through the material quickly and gaining information at the actual rate is to be obtained. Mark Seidenberg considers claims like 25,000 words per minute \"cannot be true given basic facts about eyes and texts\" and comments that \"people are as likely to read thousands of words per minute as they are to run faster than the speed of light\".\nIn a 2016 article published in the journal of 'Psychological Science in the Public Interest', the authors conclude there is no 'magic bullet' for reading more quickly while maintaining comprehension other than to practice reading and to become a more skilled language user (e.g. through increased vocabulary). The authors proceed with debunking common speed reading techniques such as eliminating sub-vocalization, reading more than one word at a time a.k.a. grouping, using RSVP (Rapid Serial Visual Presentation), increasing peripheral vision, alternating colors for each line of text.\n\nU.S. President John F. Kennedy was a proponent of speed reading and encouraged his staff to take lessons. U.S. President Jimmy Carter, and his wife Rosalynn, were both avid readers and enrolled in a speed-reading course at the White House, along with several staff members. A critical discussion about speed reading stories appeared in \"Slate\". Among others, the article raises doubts about the origin of John F. Kennedy's allegedly amazing reading speed.\n\nRonald Carver, a professor of education research and psychology, claims that the fastest college graduate readers can only read about 600 words per minute, at most twice as fast as their slowest counterparts. Other critics have suggested that speed reading is actually skimming, not reading.\n\nThe World Championship Speed Reading Competition stresses reading comprehension as critical. The top contestants typically read around 1,000 to 2,000 words per minute with approximately 50% comprehension or above. The six time world champion Anne Jones is recorded for 4200wpm with previous exposure to the material and 67% comprehension. The recorded number of words the eye can see in single fixation is three words.\n\nAnother controversy is about \"Speed Reading World Record\" claims. For example, Howard Stephen Berg from the United States claims to be the Guinness Fastest Reader World Record holder with his reading speed of 25,000 words per minute. Another such claim comes from Ms. Maria Teresa Calderon from the Philippines. She claims that she earned the Guinness World Record as the World's Fastest Reader with her 80,000 words per minute reading speed and 100% comprehension. Whether these announcements were made as Guinness Speed Reading World Records or not, critics point out that con-artists beat these speed reading world records by reading a pre-read or pre-memorized text just by flipping the pages as fast as possible without reading it. The troubling problem is under what criteria these world records were recorded and set. Moreover, the Guinness Speed Reading World Record Standards are not known and they have terminated adding speed readers to its honor list. In 2015, \"Memoriad\", the World Mental Sports Federation, set the rules for \"Speed Reading World Record Standards\" in order to prevent such unclear claims.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "685789", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=685789", "title": "Techne", "text": "Techne\n\n\"Techne\" is a term, etymologically derived from the Greek word (, ), that is often translated as \"craftsmanship\", \"craft\", or \"art\".\n\nTechne is a term in philosophy which resembles \"epistēmē\" in the implication of knowledge of principles, although techne differs in that its intent is making or doing as opposed to disinterested understanding. Martin Heidegger maintains that the concept for the ancients goes together with \"episteme\", particularly citing Plato who used the two terms interchangeably. The idea is that techne and episteme simply mean knowing and \"both words are names for knowledge in the widest sense.\"\n\nAs an activity, techne is concrete, variable, and context-dependent. As one observer has argued, techne \"was not concerned with the necessity and eternal \"a priori\" truths of the cosmos, nor with the \"a posteriori\" contingencies and exigencies of ethics and politics. [...] Moreover, this was a kind of knowledge associated with people who were bound to necessity. That is, techne was chiefly operative in the domestic sphere, in farming and slavery, and not in the free realm of the Greek polis\n\nAristotle saw it as representative of the imperfection of human imitation of nature. For the ancient Greeks, it signified all the mechanic arts, including medicine and music. The English aphorism, \"gentlemen don't work with their hands\", is said to have originated in ancient Greece in relation to their cynical view on the arts. Due to this view, it was only fitted for the lower class while the upper class practiced the liberal arts of 'free' men (Dorter 1973).\n\nSocrates also compliments techne only when it was used in the context of \"epistēmē\". \"Epistēmē\" sometimes means knowing how to do something in a craft-like way. The craft-like knowledge is called a \"technê\". It is most useful when the knowledge is practically applied, rather than theoretically or aesthetically applied. For the ancient Greeks, when techne appears as art, it is most often viewed negatively, whereas when used as a craft it is viewed positively because a craft is the practical application of an art, rather than art as an end in itself. In \"The Republic\", written by Plato, the knowledge of forms \"is the indispensable basis for the philosophers' craft of ruling in the city\" (Stanford 2003). Techne is often used in philosophical discourse to distinguish from art (or \"poiesis\"). \n\n\"In fact, techne and ars referred less to a class of objects than to the human ability to make and perform ... the issue is not about the presence or absence of a word but about the interpretation of a body of evidence, and I believe there is massive evidence that the ancient Greeks and Romans had no category of fine art.\" (Shiner 2001 pp. 19–20)\n\nIn his work , Larry Shiner argues that techne cannot be simply translated to art nor either simply to craft. This being due to art and craft being socially constructed at a certain period in history.\n\nTechne is often used as a term to further define the process of rhetoric as an art of persuasion. In his writing Toward a Sophistic Definition of Rhetoric, rhetoric scholar Dr. John Poulakos explains how the Sophists believed rhetoric to be an art that aimed for terpis, or aesthetic pleasure, while maintaining a medium of logos. For centuries, debate between sophists and followers of Plato has ensued over whether rhetoric can be considered a form of art based on the different definitions of techne. Contrasting from others, Isocrates saw rhetoric as an art—yet in the form of a set of rules, or a handbook. Some examples of handbooks are the \"Rhetoric of Aristotle\", the \"Rhetorica ad Alexandrum\", and the \"De Inventione of Cicero\", all composed of rules to write effective speeches. On the other hand, it can be seen in David Roochnik's book of Art and Wisdom: Plato's Understanding of Techne that Plato viewed techne as \"a stable body of reliable knowledge able to tell us, in fixed terms readily teachable to others, how we ought to live.\" He believed that moral knowledge is equivalent to a techne and that the meaning of the term techne must be fully grasped to understand the nature of moral knowledge.\n\nIn \"Gorgias\", Plato wrote that rhetoric is not techne but a habit of a bold and ready wit. Plato continued saying rhetoric is not an art but an experience because it fails to explain the nature of its own application. He compared it to cookery and medicine saying cookery pretends to know what is best for the body because it is pleasurable while medicine knows what is for the best of the health of the human body. Medicine is techne for it seeks what is best for the health of a person unlike cookery which is only for pleasure and fools a person into believing it is better for their health.\n\nRichard Parry writes Aristotle believed techne aims for good and forms an end, which could be the activity itself or a product formed from the activity. Aristotle used health as an example of an end that is produced from the techne of medicine. To make a distinction between techne and arete he said the value of techne is the end product while arete values choosing the action that promotes the best moral good.\n\nTechne is also a part of communication, and affects how human cultures interact. When people speak to one another, they apply their knowledge of social interactions, verbal and nonverbal cues, and their shared language to the skill of speaking. It is both personal and social, everybody has their own personal techne around their speech based on learned experiences and personal tics, and very social in that communities all communicate amongst each other on the interpersonal and large scale. \n\nIn relation to communication, techne is based less on what a person says or thinks, but on what they do. The mechanical action of speaking is mostly unconscious, and most of the work takes place in the centers of the brain similar to how a pianist knows where his fingers should go even without looking (Shepard). As Jonathan Sterne puts it, \"Communication requires both language and technology – and both are forms of techne.\" (Shepard) In relation to technology, the use of a cell phone or any other communicative device requires both an understanding of how the phone works and how social interactions are supposed to be handled on the telephone, but also requires that a person actively does it.\n\n\"Techne\" can also be compared or distinguished from the German conceptualization of the term \"technik\", which referred both to the material composition of industry as well as to the rules, procedures, and skills used to achieve a particular end. The writing of Thorstein Veblen eventually linked this concept with technology particularly in his evaluation of the works of Gustav Schmoller and Werner Sombart. The concepts of \"techne\" (art) and \"technik\" (technology) is viewed to share a commonality - that both are ways in which beings as a whole may be brought to light. However, while \"techne\" maintains a relation to nature's capacity for self-disclosure, \"technik\" severs it through a regulatory attack that provokes nature to give up its latent power. According to Heidegger, \"technik\" - by contrast to \"techne\" - refuses \"to let earth be an earth.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3816108", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3816108", "title": "The Kid Stays in the Picture", "text": "The Kid Stays in the Picture\n\nThe Kid Stays in the Picture is a 1994 autobiography by film producer Robert Evans. A film adaptation of the book was released in 2002.\n\nThe title comes from a line attributed to studio head Darryl F. Zanuck, who was defending Evans after some of the actors involved in the film \"The Sun Also Rises\" (1957) had recommended he be removed from the cast.\n\nThe film adaptation was directed by Nanette Burstein and Brett Morgen and released by USA Films. It was screened out of competition at the 2002 Cannes Film Festival.\n\nThe book chronicles Evans' rise from childhood to radio star to film star to production chief of Paramount Pictures to independent producer, his marriage to Ali MacGraw, his downfall including his 1980 cocaine bust and implication in the murder of Roy Radin, aka \"The Cotton Club Murder\", his banishment from Paramount Pictures, and his return to the studio in the early 1990s.\n\nA revised edition of the book, published in 1995, adds several chapters of new material, including material on his projects after his return to Paramount Pictures.\n\nThe film version, released in 2002, utilizes Evans' narration interspersed mostly with photographs from Evans' life as well as brief film footage from films such as \"Love Story\", \"The Sun Also Rises\", \"Rosemary's Baby\", \"Chinatown\", and \"The Godfather\", along with interviews to tell the story from his discovery by Norma Shearer for \"Man of a Thousand Faces\" (1957) to his return to Paramount Pictures.\n\nAccording to the commentary by directors Burstein and Morgen on the DVD, many elements from the book, such as Evans' childhood and his other marriages (the film focuses only on his marriage to Ali MacGraw), were dropped because they felt it did not move the story along.\n\nThe film received mostly positive reviews. As of April 8, 2012, it had a 92% \"Certified Fresh\" rating on the movie review website Rotten Tomatoes and a score of 7.4 out of 10 on IMDb, based on 4,077 reviews.\n\nAn adaptation of the book—along with material from a further, unpublished volume of Evans' memoirs—for the Broadway stage was announced in 2010, to be written by Jon Robin Baitz and directed by Richard Eyre, but the production was canceled in 2011.\n\nAnother stage adaptation of the book was first performed at the Royal Court Theatre in London in 2017. It was adapted by the Complicite theatre company and directed by Simon McBurney. The cast included Danny Huston, son of John Huston, who worked with Evans on \"Chinatown\".\n\nThe film version was parodied in the IFC series \"Documentary Now!\" with Bill Hader as Jerry Wallach. \n\n"}
{"id": "9067160", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9067160", "title": "The Triumph of Peace", "text": "The Triumph of Peace\n\nThe Triumph of Peace was a Caroline era masque, \"invented and written\" by James Shirley, performed on 3 February 1634 and published the same year. The production was designed by Inigo Jones.\n\nThe masque was lavishly sponsored by the four Inns of Court, through a political and social motive. In 1632 the Puritan controversialist William Prynne (himself an Inns of Court man) had dedicated his anti-theatre diatribe \"Histriomastix\" to the Inns; since \"Histriomastix\" was perceived as insulting to Queen Henrietta Maria, the masque was the Inns' signal of their total rejection of any connection with Prynne's book or his views.\n\nShirley was chosen to write the masque because he was a member of Gray's Inn. He was not a law student or a lawyer; rather, he was a gentleman boarder, an arrangement preferred by some literary figures of the time. (John Ford was another gentleman boarder). Shirley produced an acceptable text — though he was bold enough to offer some tactfully-phrased advice to his king.\n\nThe masque was entered into the Stationers' Register on 24 January 1634 and was licensed for performance by Sir Henry Herbert, the Master of the Revels, on the date it was acted, 3 February 1634. (Some sources give the date for the masque as 1633, failing to compensate for the difference in Old Style and New Style dates.)\n\nThe work was published in the same year, in a quarto printed by John Norton for the bookseller William Cooke. The quarto exists in three impressions, with slight differences between the first and second and greater changes in the third. (W. W. Greg wrote an article titled \"The Triumph of Peace: A Bibliographer's Nightmare.\")\n\nA manuscript relating to the masque also exists, now in the collection of the Folger Shakespeare Library (it is item #25 in Folger MS. Z.e.1). The MS. provides a cast list that names 184 of the participants in the procession (among a total of 882), along with details on the distribution of equipment and props.\n\nThe music for the masque was composed by William Lawes, Simon Ives, and Bulstrode Whitelocke.\nMusical aspects of the performance were managed for the Inns of Court by Whitelocke, the jurist and Parliamentarian, who was also an accomplished musician. Documents pertaining to the masque were preserved among Whitelocke's unpublished papers. As a result, more is known about the production of \"The Triumph of Peace\" than perhaps any other masque of the Tudor or Stuart eras — including \"a cast list, the names and voice parts of all the singers, the names and instruments of all the musicians, diagrams with musicians' names for soloists and chorus positions during the mask, a cue sheet for the serious part of the mask, names of musicians who played at the Blackfriars and Cockpit,\" and other data.\n\nThe performance was given at Whitehall Palace by members of the Inns of Court and was seen by the King, Charles I, and the Queen. The masquers started out at Ely House, then the London residence of the Bishops of Ely, and moved in procession or \"cavalcade\" down Chancery Lane and the Strand to Whitehall. This parade was led by the King's Marshall and his men bearing torches, who were followed by 100 members of the Inns of Court, 25 from each of the four Inns, dressed in gold and silver lace. Then came two music chariots; the first held eight lutenists dressed as priests and Sybils, while the second carried singers \"who struck picturesque poses in costumes representing the celestial bodies in harmonious motion.\" Then came the actors of the masque; the boys in one anti-masque were costumed as birds. The principal masquers came last, in four chariots, each drawn by four horses; the horses were decked in silver and crimson cloths and white and red feathers, and each chariot bore two \"flaming huge flambeaux\" on its sides. (Each of the Inns of Court furnished twenty dozen torches and 15 flambeaux for the procession.) Charles and Henrietta Maria, watching this from Whitehall, were so impressed that they had the parade turn around and pass them again.\n\nThe theme of the masque was relatively simple and straightforward: the spirits of Peace, Law, and Justice descend to honor the English monarchs. Yet the expression is complex, with seven changes of scene; at one point the moon sets in an open landscape and \"Amphiluche,\" the harbinger of morning, rises in turn. There are no fewer than eight anti-masques.\n\nThe masque featured the personifications standard to the form, including Opinion, Confidence, Fancy, Jollity, Novelty, and others; also, generic tradesmen, a Tailor, Carpenter, Painter, Feathermaker's Wife, Embroiderer's Wife, etc. The costumes were rich and fantastic: \"Fancy in a suit of several-colored feathers, hooded, a pair of bat's wings on his shoulders...Jollity in a flame-colored suit, but tricked like a morris dancer, with scarfs and napkins, his hat fashioned like a cone...\" Some of the costumes were \"wrought as thick with silver spangles as they could be placed.\" At one point in the masque, a windmill, a knight and his squire entered — an obvious allusion to \"Don Quixote\" — and engaged in a mock combat. Shirley deliberately included elements in the masque, including \"two wanton gamesters,\" that were precisely the type of elements criticized by Prynne in \"Histriomastix\".\n\nQueen Henrietta liked the masque so much that she arranged for a repeat performance at Merchant Taylors' Hall on 13 February. The cost for the show was extraordinary: £1000 for the music; a hundred costumes at £100 each. The total cost of the extravaganza was, according to Whitelocke, £21,000, all paid by the Inns of Court (at a time when a squire might earn £100 in a year). By some accounts (including that of Shirley himself), \"The Triumph of Peace\" was the most spectacular masque of the period.\n\n"}
{"id": "25976622", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25976622", "title": "Thomas A. Saunders III", "text": "Thomas A. Saunders III\n\nThomas A. Saunders III (born 1937) is an American investment banker and philanthropist. He is the co-founder of the private equity firm Saunders Karp & Megrue and the chairman of the Heritage Foundation.\n\nSaunders graduated from the Virginia Military Institute in 1958, with a B.S. in electrical engineering, and from the University of Virginia's Darden School of Business with an MBA in 1967.\n\nSaunders was a Managing Director of Morgan Stanley from 1974 to August 1989. For ten years he headed the financial services corporation's equity syndications group, developing relations with corporate clients, including DuPont, Eastman Kodak, Exxon, General Motors, and USX. In the early 1980s, Saunders raised $3.8 billion in equity for AT&T in just 18 months. Following the breakup of the Bell System, he headed the advisory team that determined how AT&T would sell its regional subsidiaries. When British Telecommunications was undergoing privatization in 1983, Saunders was appointed as the company's senior U.S. adviser. He was then hired by Conrail president Stanley Crane to determine a privatization plan for the rail company. At Morgan Stanley, Saunders raised $2.2 billion to create a leveraged buyout fund, which he chaired.\n\nSaunders co-founded the private equity firm Saunders Karp & Megrue in 1990. He was a Dollar Tree director since 1993. He has been the President and CEO of Ivor & Co., LLC, a private investment company, since 2000. Saunders also worked briefly for Allis-Chalmers Manufacturing Company. From 1995 to 2016, Saunders was an Independent Director of Hibbett Sports. He was on the Board of Directors of Teavana Holdings until it was bought out by Starbucks on December 31, 2012.\n\nSaunders is a major donor to the Republican Party. He donated $500,000 to the Republican National Committee and has contributed to the campaigns of John McCain, Mitt Romney, and Michele Bachmann.\n\nIn April 2009, Saunders was elected Chairman of the Board of Trustees of the conservative think tank Heritage Foundation. During his tenure, the sister organization Heritage Action was founded and Jim DeMint was hired as President.\n\nSaunders has given the University of Virginia some $17 million over the past twenty-five years. He is chairman of the Thomas Jefferson Foundation's Board of Trustees; a bridge has been named for him. He and his wife endowed the Matthew C. Horner chair in military theory at Marine Corps University. They chaired the 1995 Dinner on the Lawn at UVA, to kick off a billion-dollar capital campaign. In 2007 the Saunders hosted the annual gala for the New-York Historical Society at the Cathedral of St. John the Divine. He and his wife were awarded the 2008 National Humanities Medal.\n\nSaunders married Mary Jordan Horner. They lived in New York City for many years, but now reside in Palm Beach, Florida. They have a daughter, Calvert Saunders Moore, born , a son, Thomas A. Saunders IV, and four grandchildren. Saunders has been a member of the Wall Street chapter of the Kappa Beta Phi secret society since 1979.\n\n"}
{"id": "15435888", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15435888", "title": "Time Team Extra", "text": "Time Team Extra\n\nTime Team Extra is a British television series that aired on Channel 4 in 1998. Presented by Robin Bush, it was a companion programme to the archaeology series \"Time Team\", that first aired on Channel 4 in 1994.\n\n\"Time Team Extra\" is an eight-part series, with each episode accompanying an episode of \"Time Team\"'s fifth series. The episodes looked more into the history of the site being excavated.\n\nThe location footage for the series was filmed across the UK and Ireland, including Hampton Court Palace, Jorvik Viking Centre, Stonehenge and Mellifont Abbey. The interviews with the guest were filmed at Hughenden Manor in Buckinghamshire, in the library of Benjamin Disraeli.\n\nEach episode of \"Time Team Extra\" is thirty minutes long and originally aired from 11 January to 8 March 1998 on Channel 4. In each episode, historian Robin Bush and a guest look back at the week before's \"Time Team\" episode. \"Time Team\"'s fifth series aired from 4 January to 1 March 1998.\n\n"}
{"id": "449938", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=449938", "title": "Triskelion", "text": "Triskelion\n\nA triskelion or triskele is a motif consisting of a triple spiral exhibiting rotational symmetry.\nThe spiral design can be based on interlocking Archimedean spirals, or represent three bent human legs.\n\nBoth terms are from Greek (\"triskelion\") or (\"triskeles\"), \"three-legged\", from prefix \"τρι-\" (\"tri-\"), \"three times\" + \"σκέλος\" (\"skelos\"), \"leg\".\n\nA triskelion is a traditional symbol of Sicily, where it is called \"trinacria\"; the Isle of Man, where it is known in Manx as \"Tree Cassyn Vannin\", and Brittany where it is known as \"Triskèle\". Ingushetia also has a (stylised) triskelion in its flag.\n\nThe triskelion symbol appears in many early cultures, the first in Malta (4400–3600 BCE) and in the astronomical calendar at the famous megalithic tomb of Newgrange in Ireland built around 3200 BCE, Mycenaean vessels, on coinage in Lycia, and on staters of Pamphylia (at Aspendos, 370–333 BCE) and Pisidia. It appears as a heraldic emblem on warriors' shields depicted on Greek pottery.\n\nThe triskelion is an ancient symbol of Sicily, with the head of the Gorgon, with snakes as hair, from which radiate three legs bent at the knee. The symbol dates back to when Sicily was part of Magna Graecia, the colonial extension of Greece beyond the Aegean. Pliny the Elder attributes the origin of the triskelion of Sicily to the triangular form of the island, the ancient \"Trinacria\" (from the Greek \"tri-\" (three) and ἄκρα \"akra\" (end, peak, citadel), which consists of three large capes equidistant from each other, pointing in their respective directions, the names of which were Pelorus, Pachynus, and Lilybæum.\n\nThe Celtic symbol of three conjoined spirals may have had triple significance similar to the imagery that lies behind the triskelion. The triple spiral motif is a Neolithic symbol in Western Europe. Though popularly considered a \"Celtic\" symbol, it is in fact a pre-Celtic symbol. It is carved into the rock of a stone lozenge near the main entrance of the prehistoric Newgrange monument in County Meath, Ireland. Newgrange, which was built around 3200 BCE, predates the Celtic arrival in Ireland, but has long since been incorporated into Celtic culture. The symbol is also found carved in rock in Castro Culture settlement in modern-day Galicia and Northern Portugal. In Ireland before the 5th century, in Celtic Christianity the triskele took on new meaning, as a symbol of the Trinity (Father, Son, and Holy Spirit), and therefore also a symbol of eternity. Its popularity continues today as a decorative symbol of faith for Christians of Celtic descent around the world.\n\nTraditional Asian versions of the triskelion include the Japanese Mitsudomoe, the Tibetan Buddhist Gankyil, and the Korean Sam Taegeuk.\nA triskelion is featured on the seal of the United States Department of Transportation.\n\nA triskelion shape is the basis for the roundel of the Irish Air Corps, and the logo for the Trisquel Linux distribution.\n\nA triskelion shape was used in the design of RCA's \"Spider\" 45 rpm adapter, a popular plastic adapter for vinyl records, which allows larger center-holed 45 rpm records (commonly used on 7\" singles and EPs) to spin on players designed for smaller center-holed 33-1/3 rpm records (the standard for 10\" and 12\" LPs). The design was practical, the three curved arms providing equal spring and thus keeping the hole centred. The iconic design of the Spider has led to its adoption as a popular symbol for record and music enthusiasts.\n\nOne of the most commonly used symbols of the BDSM community is a derivation of a triskelion shape within a circle.\n\nThe South African neo-Nazi White supremacist White nationalist organization and political party Afrikaner Weerstandsbeweging uses a Triskele composed of three sevens as its symbol in place of the Nazi Swastika.\n\nThe Flag of the Isle of Man bears 3 legs based on the Triskele.\n\nThe crest of the Breton football club En Avant de Guingamp combines the Flag of Brittany, the team colours and the triple spiral triskelion.\n\n\"The Gamesters of Triskelion\" is a second-season episode of the American science fiction television series \"Star Trek\".\n\nIn the Marvel Universe, the intelligence agency S.H.I.E.L.D. uses the Triskelion as its headquarters .\n\nThe Triskele is also used as a prominent symbol in MTV's \"Teen Wolf (2011 TV Series)\" which draws heavily from Celtic mythology. A Triskele was used by some younger betas to keep from shifting & maintain calm. This happens by the beta repeating \"Alpha, Beta, Omega\" or \"The Sun, The Moon, The Truth\" over and over again until the beta is calm.\n\nIn Merlin (2008 TV series) it was used as symbol of druids.\n\nThe triskele, usually consisting of spirals, but also the \"horned triskelion\", is used by some polytheistic reconstructionist and neopagan groups. As a Celtic symbol, it is used primarily by groups with a Celtic cultural orientation and, less frequently, can also be found in use by various eclectic or syncretic traditions such as Neopaganism. The spiral triskele is one of the primary symbols of Celtic Reconstructionist Paganism. Celtic Reconstructionists use the symbol to represent a variety of triplicities in their cosmology and theology; it is also a favored symbol due to its association with the god Manannán mac Lir.\n\nThe endocytic protein, clathrin, is triskelion-shaped.\nThe Ediacaran fossil Tribrachidium is also triskelion shaped.\n"}
{"id": "16900893", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16900893", "title": "Wendy Mitchinson", "text": "Wendy Mitchinson\n\nWendy Mitchinson is a Canadian historian at the University of Waterloo and a Canada Research Chair in Gender and Medical history.\n\nMitchinson trained at York University and quickly became a major figure in the field of Canadian women's history. With Ramsay Cook, she co-edited her first book \"The Proper Sphere: Woman's Place in Canadian Society\", a collection of writing on the then new field of Canadian women's history. In 1988, she co-authored \"Canadian Women: A History\" the first textbook on Canadian women.\n\nLater, she begin to focus on the history of medicine, particularly women's health, and wrote \"The Nature of Their Bodies: Women and Their Doctors in Victorian Canada.\" Her most recent book, \"Giving Birth in Canada: 1900-1950\", examines the history of childbirth in a Canadian context. As Canada Research Chair, she is conducting research into the history of obesity in Canada.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "540570", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540570", "title": "Wise old man", "text": "Wise old man\n\nThe wise old man (also called senex, sage or sophos) is an archetype as described by Carl Jung, as well as a classic literary figure, and may be seen as a stock character. The wise old man can be a profound philosopher distinguished for wisdom and sound judgment.\n\nThis type of character is typically represented as a kind and wise, older father-type figure who uses personal knowledge of people and the world to help tell stories and offer guidance that, in a mystical way, may impress upon his audience a sense of who they are and who they might become, thereby acting as a mentor. He may occasionally appear as an absent-minded professor, appearing absent-minded due to a predilection for contemplative pursuits.\n\nThe wise old man is often seen to be in some way \"foreign\", that is, from a different culture, nation, or occasionally, even a different time, from those he advises. In extreme cases, he may be a liminal being, such as Merlin, who was only half human.\n\nIn medieval chivalric romance and modern fantasy literature, he is often presented as a wizard. He can also or instead be featured as a hermit. This character type often explained to the knights or heroes—particularly those searching for the Holy Grail—the significance of their encounters.\n\nIn storytelling, the character of the wise old man is commonly killed or in some other way removed for a time, in order to allow the hero to develop on his/her own.\n\nIn Jungian analytical psychology, senex is the specific term used in association with this archetype. In Ancient Rome, the title of Senex (Latin for \"old man\") was only awarded to elderly men with families who had good standing in their village. Examples of the senex archetype in a positive form include the wise old man or wizard. The senex may also appear in a negative form as a devouring father (e.g. Uranus, Cronus) or a doddering fool.\n\nIn the individuation process, the archetype of the Wise old man was late to emerge, and seen as an indication of the Self. 'If an individual has wrestled seriously enough and long enough with the anima (or animus) problem...the unconscious again changes its dominant character and appears in a new symbolic form...as a masculine initiator and guardian (an Indian \"guru\"), a wise old man, a spirit of nature, and so forth'.\n\nThe antithetical archetype, or enantiodromic opposite, of the senex is the Puer Aeternus.\n\n\n\nIn fiction, due to the influence of Merlin, a wise old man is often presented in the form of a wizard or other magician in medieval chivalric romance and modern fantasy literature and films; notable examples include Gandalf from \"The Lord of the Rings\" and Albus Dumbledore from \"Harry Potter\". See List of magicians in fantasy for more examples.\n\nThe Elder Kettle, who serves as a father figure to the Cup Brothers in \"Cuphead\", closely follows this role. When the brothers get roped into The Devil's scheme to gather the contracts, it is the Elder Kettle who helps the brothers in their plan to eventually turn against their master.\n\n\"Senex\" is a name of a wise old character in the novel \"A Wind in the Door\" by Madeleine L'Engle.\n\nSir Alan Lascelles used the pen-name \"Senex\" when writing to \"The Times\" in 1950 setting out the so-called Lascelles Principles concerning the monarch's right to refuse a prime minister's request for a general election.\n\nA character in episode 7 of the anime Ergo Proxy is named Senex Proxy, and is the Agent of Moonlight. She is killed by Ergo Proxy. It is possible the name Senex is in reference to the age, and immortality of the Proxies.\n\nIn the roleplaying game , Senex is the wise old leader of the Euthanatos magickal tradition. He dwells in a far distant realm, only rarely stepping onto Earth.\n\n"}
