{"id": "48350337", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48350337", "title": "2015–16 Montenegrin crisis", "text": "2015–16 Montenegrin crisis\n\nA political crisis in Montenegro () was initiated by the opposition parties which staged protests requesting fair elections and transitional government. Opposition coalition Democratic Front organised continuous protests in October 2015 which culminated in a large riot in Podgorica on 24 October. A split in the ruling coalition followed in January 2016, leaving the government functioning as a \"de facto\" minority government.\n\nIn 2015, the investigative journalists' network OCCRP named Montenegro's long-time President and Prime Minister Milo Đukanović \"Person of the Year in Organized Crime\". The extent of Đukanović's corruption led to street demonstrations and calls for his removal.\n\nOn 27 September the Democratic Front set up tents by the building of the Parliament of Montenegro.\n\nAnti-government protests in Montenegro began in mid-October 2015 and culminated in riots on 24 October 2015 in the capital of Podgorica. The protests were organised by the opposition coalition Democratic Front, which is requesting the formation of a transitional government which would organise next parliamentary elections.\n\nAfter thousands of people rallied to protest government corruption and demand a transitional government and resignation of Prime Minister Milo Đukanović, who has held prime ministerial or presidential positions for most of the time since 1990, the police intervened tear-gassing the demonstrators on 24 October. Montenegrin police fired tear gas at opposition supporters, while chasing away the demonstrators with armored vehicles.\n\nA protest against joining NATO was held in Podgorica on 12 December 2015. A new protest against the government was held on 24 January 2016.\n\nOn January 27, 2016, a parliamentary vote saw the split of the ruling DPS and up until then coalition partner SDP. This followed a failed crisis talk over the organization of the \"first free and fair election\". The President of the National Assembly Ranko Krivokapić (SDP) strongly criticized Prime Minister Milo Djukanović and the ruling party (DPS). With the split of SDP, Djukanović lost the Assembly majority. Djukanović started an initiative to remove Krivokapić from the seat.\n\nOn 13 May 2016, Prime Minister Milo Đukanović's speech was interrupted by the Democratic Front MPs, who chanted \"Milo, you thief\" (\"Milo, lopove\"), which was followed by a verbal clash and an attempt at physical altercation, which was prevented by other MPs and parliamentary security service.\n\nOn 16 October 2016, on the day of the parliamentary election, a group of 20 Serbian and Montenegrin citizens, including the former head of Serbian Gendarmery Bratislav Dikić, were arrested; they, along with other persons, including Russian citizens, were later formally charged by the authorities of Montenegro with an attempted coup d'état. In February 2017, Montenegrin officials accused the Russian state structures of being behind the attempted coup, which envisaged an attack on the country's parliament and assassination of prime minister Milo Đukanović; those accusations were rejected by the Russian government.\n\nAccording to the prime minister Duško Marković′s statements made in February 2017, the government received definitive information about the coup being prepared on 12 October 2016, when a person involved in the plot gave away the fallback scenario of his Russian minders, who thus aimed to prevent the country from joining NATO; this information was also corroborated by the security services of NATO member countries, who helped the Montenegrin government to investigate the plot.\n\nIn early June 2017, the High Court in Montenegro confirmed the indictment of 14 people, including two Russians and two pro-Russia Montenegrin opposition leaders, Andrija Mandic and Milan Knezevic, who had been charged with \"preparing a conspiracy against the constitutional order and the security of Montenegro\" and an \"attempted terrorist act\".\n\nFollowing the events which surrounded the latest parliamentary election, the major opposition parties made a decision to begin a collective boycott of all parliamentary sessions; the boycott continued into 2017, extending to local elections.\n\nOn 28 April 2017, Montenegro's parliament voted 46–0 to join NATO, while the opposition parties kept boycotting parliament sessions and protesters burned NATO flags outside. Tensions between Montenegro and Russia continued to escalate thereafter.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51329995", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51329995", "title": "Afghan Youth Parliament", "text": "Afghan Youth Parliament\n\nThe Afghanistan's Youth Parliament (AYP) is a youth organisation in Afghanistan, consisting of democratically elected members aged between 16 and 25.\n\nFormed in July 2016, the parliament has around 122 members, who are elected from the 34 provinces of Afghanistan. The membership is 33 percent female, 3 percent nomads, three percent disabled people, and 1 percent each Hindu and Sikh. The youth parliament has been established in order to further involve the country's young generation in socio-political affairs.\n\nThe 122 members of AYP elected a speaker for two years. Mr. Agha Mohammad Qurishi is the current Speaker of Afghansitan's Youth Parliament. He has done his bachelors in Political Science. Now, he is doing his master's degree in Public Administration and Policy in Kabul University. Mr. Qurishi is also a successful Afghan writer, he achieved Pajhwork-News National Youth Writers Award in 2015.\n"}
{"id": "408412", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=408412", "title": "Agrarian Party (Belarus)", "text": "Agrarian Party (Belarus)\n\nThe Agrarian Party (; ) is a left-wing agrarian political party in Belarus. It supports the government of president Alexander Lukashenko. \n\nIt was created in 1992 as the \"United Democratic Agrarian Party of Belarus (Аб'яднанная аграрна-дэмакратычная партыя Беларусі)\". In 1994, it changed its name into Agrarian Party. The leader of the party is Mikhail Shimansky. \n\nAt the legislative election in 1995, the party obtained 33 out of 198 seats. In 2000 and 2004 it only gained 5 and 3 seats in the House of Representatives, respectively.\nIn 2008, the party was reduced to one seat. In the 2016 election, the party lost its remaining seat.\n\n"}
{"id": "23831537", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23831537", "title": "Antonio Mattei Lluberas", "text": "Antonio Mattei Lluberas\n\nAntonio Mattei Lluberas (September 7, 1857 – January 15, 1908), was a businessman and politician who in 1897 planned and led the second and last major uprising against Spanish colonial rule in Puerto Rico, known as the Intentona de Yauco.\n\nMattei Lluberas was born in the town of Yauco, Puerto Rico to Antonio Mattei Casanova and Mercedes Lluberas Torres de Figueroa. Mattei Lluberas' father's parents, who were of Corsican descent, sent him to France where he received his primary and secondary education.\n\nHe returned to Puerto Rico and became a wealthy businessman after he established a successful coffee plantation. He later married Ana María Rita Emmanuelli Negroni, the (daughter of Louis Henri Emanuelli Ciavaldini b 1824 Corsica and Ana Maria Negroni Rodriguez) and had three children: Rita María, Rita Monserrate and Luis Antonio.\n\nMattei Lluberas was among the many Puerto Ricans at the time who professed liberal ideals and believed that Puerto Rico should be an independent nation free from Spanish Colonial rule. As such, he became involved with the island's revolutionary movement and became one of their leaders. In 1896, Mattei Lluberas met with Mateo Mercado and a group of \"Yaucanos\" (as the natives of Yauco are known) who believed in full independence of Puerto Rico in \"Barrio Barinas\" of Yauco and made plans to overthrow the government. On December of that year, the local Civil Guard discovered their plans and proceeded to arrest all those involved who, besides Mercado and Mattei Lluberas, included Dario and Carlos Franchesi and Emiliano Lavergue, however they were soon released and returned to their respective homes.\n\nIn 1897, Mattei Lluberas visited the Puerto Rican Revolutionary Committee in New York City. There he met with Ramon Emeterio Betances, Juan de Mata Terreforte and Aurelio Méndez Martinez and together they proceeded to plan a major coup. The uprising was to be directed by Betances, organized by Mendez Mercado and the armed forces were to be commanded by General Rius Rivera. At the time Rius Rivera, who joined José Martí's struggle for Cuban independence as a member of the Cuban Liberation Army, was the Commander-in-Chief of the Cuban Liberation Army of the West.\n\nIn accordance to the plan, Mattei Lluberas purchased 30,000 machetes which were to be distributed amongst the rebels. Mattei Lluberas returned to Puerto Rico with a Puerto Rican flag and began to proceed with the plans of the revolt with his group. The Budet Rivera brothers established an insurgent training camp in the farm of Gullermo Velazco. Fellow rebels, Gerardo Forest Velez and Agustin F. Morales (himself a general in the Army of the Dominican Republic), were in charge of propaganda and traveled throughout the island seeking public support for their cause. Cuban revolutionist Tomas Estrada Palma, offered a contribution of 500 rifles with half a million rounds of ammunition and his comrade offered a steamship with an invading force of 200 men under the command of General Agustin F. Morales. The revolution was set for the beginning of the month of December 1897.\n\nThe Mayor of Yauco Francisco Lluch Barreras heard the rumors of the planned uprising, he immediately notified General Sabas Marín González the governor of the island.\n\nFidel Velez, a native of Sabana Grande and one of the separatist leaders, found out that the Spanish authorities knew about their plans and immediately held a meeting with Mattei Lluberas and the other leaders. Fearing that they all would soon be arrested, he demanded that the insurrection start immediately and not in December. In the discussion that followed, the other leaders did not agree with him, fearing that such a haste action would lead to the same disastrous results of \"El Grito de Lares\".\n\nOn March 24, 1897, Fidel Velez and his men met at Susua Arriba, just outside Yauco. They unfurled the Puerto Rican flag for the first time in Puerto Rican soil. and marched towards the town. They planned to attack the barracks of the Spanish Civil Guard with the aim of gaining control of the arms and ammunition which were stored there. The plan did not succeed because when they arrived they were ambushed by the Spanish forces who had set up positions and were waiting for them. A firefight ensued upon the arrival of the group and the rebels quickly retreated. On March 26, another group headed by Jose Nicolas Quiñones Torres and Ramon Torres attempted to fight the Spaniards in a barrio called \"Quebradas\" of Yauco, however said revolt also failed. Over 150 rebels were arrested, accused of various crimes against the state and sent to prison in the City of Ponce. Velez fled to St. Thomas where he lived in exile, while Mattei Lluberas went into exile in New York City and joined a group known as the \"Puerto Rican Commission\".\n\nMattei Lluberas and the Puerto Rican Commission in New York had been trying to convince President William McKinley to invade Puerto Rico for sometime. After Cuba was taken during the Spanish–American War, President McKinley approved the land invasion of Puerto Rico. A convoy of ships left Tampa, Florida and on July 21 another convoy departed from Guantánamo for a 4-day journey to Puerto Rico. Major General Nelson A. Miles, Commanding General of the Army, opted to land his troops in the southern region of the island, picking Guánica, at the time a part of the municipality of Yauco, as his landing zone. On July 31, 1898, Mattei Lluberas and his group arrived in Ponce aboard the USS \"St. Louis\" and were assigned to the headquarters of General Miles. On August 13, the Puerto Rican Campaign came to an end. Under the terms of the Treaty of Paris of 1898, ratified on December 10, 1898, Puerto Rico was annexed by the United States.\n\nIn 1904, Mattei Lluberas was elected Mayor of Yauco as a candidate of the pro-statehood Republican Party of Puerto Rico. Mattei Lluberas died on January 15, 1908. The town of Yauco honored his memory by naming an avenue after him.\n\n"}
{"id": "34684336", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34684336", "title": "Arnold L. Mitchem", "text": "Arnold L. Mitchem\n\nArnold L. Mitchem was the president and founder of the non-profit organization the Council for Opportunity in Education in Washington, DC. He currently serves as President Emeritus for the organization.\nDr. Mitchem has spent his entire career advocating for equal access to post-secondary education and success of students in the United States—which he views as an extension of the Civil Rights Movement.\nHe is responsible for creating minority leadership for college access issues.\nHe was also the founder of the concept of “first-generation” students. This better described the students he sought to assist and moved access issues beyond racial boundaries to show that access was a more widespread problem.\nThis concept was adopted in the re-authorization of the Higher Education Act of 1980.\n\nMitchem received a B.A. in History and Education from the University of Southern Colorado.\nHe has a Ph.D. in the History and Philosophy of Education from Marquette University.\nBefore coming to COE, he served as the director of the Educational Opportunity Program at Marquette University.\nMitchem has received honorary doctoral degrees from nine American Universities, including the University of Illinois, St. Joseph's University, DePaul University, Marquette University, CUNY-Lehman College, Saint Louis University, University of Massachusetts-Boston, Lewis University, and Marycrest College and one in Europe.\nHe is the only American to receive an honorary degree from the University of Liverpool.\nHe is the recipient of leadership and service awards for his contribution and commitment to educational opportunity for under-served students such as the Alumnus of the Year Award from Marquette University, the Academic Advancement Program Leadership Award from UCLA, and the Outstanding Contribution to Higher Education Award from the National Association of Student Personnel Administrators. He has also had a fellowship named after him at DePaul University.\n\nMitchem has served on the Board and Executive Committees of many universities and organizations such as the Board of Trustees of Marquette University, the Advisory Panel of the Louisiana Board of Regents, Advisory Board of the Jack Kent Cooke Foundation's Community College Transfer Initiative, and the Executive Committee of the European Access Network.\nHe has years of experience providing Congressional testimony on issues such as Education Regulations, non-profit institutions, and the Higher Education Act as well as delivering keynote and commencement speeches on the importance of education.\n\nMitchem is a leading advocate for the federally funded TRIO programs which motivate and support students from disadvantaged backgrounds in their pursuit of a college degree.\nThe programs have helped 3.4 million students prepare for, get into, and succeed in post-secondary education.\nThe TRIO programs, the largest and oldest out-of-school institutional program, help low-income and first-generation learners, students with disabilities, adult learners, and veterans overcome financial, social, and cultural barriers to education.\n\n"}
{"id": "2346975", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2346975", "title": "Ban Ki-moon", "text": "Ban Ki-moon\n\nBan Ki-moon (; ; ; born 13 June 1944) is a South Korean diplomat who was the eighth Secretary-General of the United Nations from January 2007 to December 2016. Before becoming Secretary-General, Ban was a career diplomat in South Korea's Ministry of Foreign Affairs and in the United Nations. He entered diplomatic service the year he graduated from university, accepting his first post in New Delhi, India.\n\nBan was the foreign minister of South Korea from January 2004 to November 2006. In February 2006 he began to campaign for the office of Secretary-General. Ban was initially considered to be a long shot for the office. As foreign minister of South Korea, however, he was able to travel to all the countries on the United Nations Security Council, a maneuver that turned him into the campaign's front runner.\n\nOn 13 October 2006, he was elected to be the eighth Secretary-General by the United Nations General Assembly. On 1 January 2007, he succeeded Kofi Annan. As Secretary-General, he was responsible for several major reforms on peacekeeping and UN employment practices. Diplomatically, Ban has taken particularly strong views on global warming, pressing the issue repeatedly with U.S. President George W. Bush, and on the Darfur conflict, where he helped persuade Sudanese president Omar al-Bashir to allow peacekeeping troops to enter Sudan.\n\nBan was named the world's 32nd most powerful person by the \"Forbes\" list of The World's Most Powerful People in 2013, the highest among South Koreans. In 2014, he was named the third most powerful South Korean after Lee Kun-hee and Lee Jae-yong. In 2016, \"Foreign Policy\" named Ban one of the Top 100 Global Thinkers for his achievement of making the Paris Agreement a legally binding treaty less than a year after it was adopted.\n\nAntónio Guterres was appointed by the General Assembly on 13 October 2016 to be the successor of Ban Ki-moon as he stepped down on 31 December 2016. He was widely considered to be a potential candidate for the 2017 South Korean presidential election, before announcing, on 1 February, that he would not be running.\n\nOn 14 September 2017, Ban was elected chair of the International Olympic Committee's Ethics Commission. Also in 2017, Ban co-founded the nonprofit Ban Ki-moon Centre for Global Citizens. He also currently serves as Distinguished Chair Professor at Yonsei University's Institute for Global Engagement and Empowerment.\n\nBan was born on 13 June 1944 in the small farming village of Haengchi, Wonnam Township (\"-myeon\"), in Eumseong County, North Chungcheong Province in Korea. His family then moved to the nearby town of Chungju, where he grew up. During Ban's childhood, his father had a warehouse business, but the warehouse went bankrupt and the family lost its middle-class standard of living. When Ban was six, his family fled to a remote mountainside for much of the Korean War. After the war ended, his family returned to Chungju. Ban has said that, during this time, he met American soldiers.\n\nIn secondary school (Chungju High School), Ban became a star student, particularly in his studies of the English language. In 1962, Ban won an essay contest sponsored by the Red Cross and earned a trip to the United States where he lived in San Francisco with a host family for several months. As part of the trip, Ban met U.S. President John F. Kennedy. When a journalist at the meeting asked Ban what he wanted to be when he grew up, he said, \"I want to become a diplomat.\"\n\nHe received a bachelor's degree in international relations from Seoul National University in 1970, and earned a Master of Public Administration from the John F. Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University in 1985. At Harvard, he studied under Joseph Nye, who remarked that Ban had \"a rare combination of analytic clarity, humility and perseverance\". Ban was awarded the degree of Doctor of Laws (Honoris Causa) by the University of Malta on 22 April 2009. He further received an honorary degree of Doctor of Laws from the University of Washington in October 2009, an honorary degree of Doctor of Law from the University of Cambridge in February 2016, and an Honorary Doctor of Humane Letters Degree from Loyola Marymount University in April 2016. On 30 August 2016, he was conferred the Honorary Doctor of Letters by National University of Singapore for his lifetime of service to humanity.\n\nIn addition to his native Korean, Ban speaks English and French. According to a retired UN official, \"one of Ban's biggest handicaps was his lack of fluency in English, which made it difficult for him to win over audiences in the US and elsewhere.\" There have also been questions, however, regarding the extent of his knowledge of French, one of the two working languages of the United Nations Secretariat.\n\nAfter graduating from university, Ban received the top score on Korea's foreign service exam. He joined the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in May 1970 and worked his way up the career ladder during the years of the Yusin Constitution.\n\nBan's first overseas posting was to New Delhi, India, where he served as vice consul and impressed many of his superiors in the foreign ministry with his competence. Ban reportedly accepted a posting to India rather than the United States, because in India he would be able to save more money to send to his family. In 1974 he received his first posting to the United Nations, as First Secretary of the South Permanent Observer Mission (South Korea became a full UN member-state on 17 September 1991). After Park Chung-hee's 1979 assassination, Ban assumed the post of Director of the United Nations Division.\n\nIn 1980 Ban became director of the United Nations' International Organizations and Treaties Bureau, headquartered in Seoul. He has been posted twice to the South Korean embassy in Washington, D.C. Between these two assignments he served as Director-General for American Affairs in 1990–92. In 1992, he became Vice Chairman of the South-North Joint Nuclear Control Commission, following the adoption by South and North Korea of the Joint Declaration of the Denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula. From 1993 to 1994 Ban was Korea's deputy ambassador to the United States. He was promoted to the position of Deputy Minister for Policy Planning and International Organizations in 1995 and then appointed National Security Advisor to the President in 1996. Ban's lengthy career overseas has been credited with helping him avoid South Korea's unforgiving political environment.\n\nBan was appointed Ambassador to Austria and Slovenia in 1998, and a year later he was also elected as Chairman of the Preparatory Commission for the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty Organization (CTBTO PrepCom). During the negotiations, in what Ban considers the biggest blunder of his career, he included in a public letter a positive statement about the Anti-Ballistic Missile Treaty in 2001, not long after the United States had decided to abandon the treaty. To avoid anger from the United States, Ban was fired by President Kim Dae-jung, who also issued a public apology for Ban's statement.\n\nBan was unemployed for the only time in his career and was expecting to receive an assignment to work in a remote and unimportant embassy. In 2001, during the 56th Session of the United Nations General Assembly, South Korea held the rotating presidency, and to Ban's surprise, he was selected to be the chief of staff to general assembly president Han Seung-soo. In 2003, incoming president Roh Moo-hyun selected Ban as one of his foreign policy advisors.\n\nIn 2004, Ban replaced Yoon Young-kwan as foreign minister of South Korea under president Roh Moo-hyun. At the beginning of his term, Ban was faced with two major crises: in June 2004 Kim Sun-il, a South Korean working as an Arabic translator, was kidnapped and killed in Iraq by Islamic extremists; and in December 2004 dozens of Koreans died in the 2004 Indian Ocean tsunami. Ban survived scrutiny from lawmakers and saw an upturn in his popularity when talks began with North Korea. Ban became actively involved in issues relating to North-South Korean relationships. In September 2005, as foreign minister, he played a leading role in the diplomatic efforts to adopt the Joint Statement on resolving the North Korean nuclear issue at the Fourth Round of the Six-party talks held in Beijing.\n\nAs foreign minister, Ban oversaw the trade and aid policies of South Korea. This work put Ban in the position of signing trade deals and delivering foreign assistance to diplomats who would later be influential in his candidacy for Secretary-General. For example, Ban became the first senior South Korean minister to travel to the Republic of the Congo since its independence in 1960.\n\nIn February 2006, Ban declared his candidacy to replace Kofi Annan as UN Secretary-General at the end of 2006, becoming the first South Korean to run for the office. Though Ban was the first to announce a candidacy, he was not originally considered a serious contender.\n\nOver the next eight months, Ban made ministerial visits to each of the 15 countries with a seat on the Security Council. Of the seven candidates, he topped each of the four straw polls conducted by the United Nations Security Council: on 24 July, 14 September, 28 September, and 2 October.\n\nDuring the period in which these polls took place, Ban made major speeches to the Asia Society and the Council on Foreign Relations in New York City. To be confirmed, Ban needed not only to win the support of the diplomatic community, but also to be able to avoid a veto from any of the five permanent members of the council: People's Republic of China, France, Russia, the United Kingdom, and the United States. Ban was popular in Washington for having pushed to send South Korean troops to Iraq, and had the support of the Bush administration as he pursued the position. But Ban also opposed several U.S. positions: he expressed his support for the International Criminal Court and favoured an entirely non-confrontational approach to dealing with North Korea. Ban said during his campaign that he would like to visit North Korea in person to meet with Kim Jong-il directly. Ban was viewed as a stark contrast from Kofi Annan, who was considered charismatic, but perceived as a weak manager because of problems surrounding the UN's oil-for-food program in Iraq.\n\nBan struggled to win the approval of France. His official biography states that he speaks both English and French, the two working languages of the UN Secretariat. However, he has repeatedly struggled to answer questions in French from journalists. Ban has repeatedly acknowledged his limitations at French, but assured French diplomats that he was devoted to continuing his study. At a press conference on 11 January 2007, Ban remarked, \"My French perhaps could be improved, and I am continuing to work. I have taken French lessons over the last few months. I think that, even if my French isn't perfect, I will continue to study it.\"\n\nAs the Secretary-General election drew closer, there was rising criticism of the South Korean campaign on Ban's behalf. Specifically, his alleged practice of systematically visiting all member states of the Security Council in his role as the Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade to secure votes in his support by signing trade deals with European countries and pledging aid to developing countries were the focus of many news articles. According to \"The Washington Post\", \"rivals have privately grumbled that Republic of Korea, which has the world's 11th-largest economy, has wielded its economic might to generate support for his candidacy\". Ban reportedly said that these insinuations were \"groundless\". In an interview on 17 September 2006 he stated: \"As front-runner, I know that I can become a target of this very scrutinizing process\", and that he was \"a man of integrity\".\n\nIn the final informal poll on 2 October, Ban received fourteen favorable votes and one abstention (\"no opinion\") from the fifteen members of the Security Council. The one abstention came from the Japanese delegation, who vehemently opposed the idea of a Korean taking the role of Secretary-General. Due to the overwhelming support of Ban by the rest of the Security Council, Japan later voted in favor of Ban to avoid controversy. More importantly, Ban was the only one to escape a veto; each of the other candidates received at least one \"no\" vote from among the five permanent members. After the vote, Shashi Tharoor, who finished second, withdrew his candidacy and China's Permanent Representative to the UN told reporters that \"it is quite clear from today's straw poll that Minister Ban Ki-moon is the candidate that the Security Council will recommend to the General Assembly\".\n\nOn 9 October, the Security Council formally chose Ban as its nominee. In the public vote, he was supported by all 15 members of the council. On 13 October, the 192-member General Assembly acclaimed Ban as Secretary-General.\n\nWhen Ban became Secretary-General, \"The Economist\" listed the major challenges facing him in 2007: \"rising nuclear demons in Iran and North Korea, a haemorrhaging wound in Darfur, unending violence in the Middle East, looming environmental disaster, escalating international terrorism, the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, the spread of HIV/AIDS. And then the more parochial concerns, such as the largely unfinished business of the most sweeping attempt at reform in the UN's history\". Before starting, Kofi Annan shared the story that when the first Secretary-General Trygve Lie left office, he told his successor, Dag Hammarskjöld, \"You are about to take over the most impossible job on earth\".\n\nOn 23 January 2007 Ban took office as the eighth Secretary-General of the United Nations. Ban's term as Secretary-General opened with a flap. At his first encounter with the press as Secretary-General on 2 January 2007, he refused to condemn the death penalty imposed on Saddam Hussein by the Iraqi High Tribunal, remarking, \"The issue of capital punishment is for each and every member State to decide\". Ban's statements contradicted long-standing United Nations opposition to the death penalty as a human-rights concern. He quickly clarified his stance in the case of Barzan al-Tikriti and Awad al-Bandar, two top officials who were convicted of the deaths of 148 Shia Muslims in the Iraqi village of Dujail in the 1980s. In a statement through his spokesperson on 6 January, he \"strongly urged the Government of Iraq to grant a stay of execution to those whose death sentences may be carried out in the near future\". On the broader issue, he told a Washington, D.C. audience on 16 January 2007 that he recognized and encouraged the \"growing trend in international society, international law and domestic policies and practices to phase out eventually the death penalty\".\n\nOn the tenth anniversary of Khmer Rouge leader Pol Pot's death, 15 April 2008, Ban Ki-moon appealed for the senior leaders of the regime to be brought to justice. The Extraordinary Chambers in the Courts of Cambodia-tribunal, which was established by both the United Nations and Cambodia and which became operational in 2006, is expected to continue until at least 2010.\n\nBan has received strong criticism from the UN Office of Internal Oversight Services (OIOS), which stated that the secretariat under Ban's leadership was \"drifting into irrelevance\".\n\nIn early January, Ban appointed the key members of his cabinet. As his Deputy Secretary-General, he selected Tanzanian foreign minister and professor Asha-Rose Migiro, a move that pleased African diplomats who had concerns of losing power without Annan in office.\n\nThe top position devoted exclusively to management, Under-Secretary-General for Management, was filled by Alicia Bárcena Ibarra of Mexico. Bárcena was considered a UN insider, having previously served as Annan's chief of staff. Her appointment was seen by critics as an indication that Ban would not make dramatic changes to UN bureaucracy. Ban appointed Sir John Holmes, the British Ambassador to France, as Under-Secretary-General for humanitarian affairs and coordinator of emergency relief.\n\nBan initially said that he would delay making other appointments until his first round of reforms were approved, yet later abandoned this idea after receiving criticism. In February he continued with appointments, selecting B. Lynn Pascoe, the U.S. ambassador to Indonesia, to become Under-Secretary-General for political affairs. Jean-Marie Guéhenno, a French diplomat, who had served as Under-Secretary-General for peacekeeping operations under Annan, remained in office. Ban selected Vijay K. Nambiar as his chief of staff.\n\nThe appointment of many women to top jobs was seen as fulfilling a campaign promise Ban had made to increase the role of women in the United Nations. During Ban's first year as Secretary-General, more top jobs were being handled by women than ever before. Though not appointed by Ban, the president of the General Assembly, Haya Rashed Al-Khalifa, is only the third woman to hold this position in United Nations history.\n\nDuring his first month in office, Ban proposed two major reforms: to split the UN peacekeeping operation into two departments and to combine the political affairs and disarmament department. His proposals were met with stiff resistance from members of the UN General Assembly who bristled under Ban's request for rapid approval. The proposed merger of the disarmament and political affairs offices was criticized by many in the developing world, partially because of rumours that Ban hoped to place American B. Lynn Pascoe in charge of the new office. Alejandro D. Wolff, then acting American ambassador, said the United States backed his proposals.\nAfter the early bout of reproach, Ban began extensive consultation with UN ambassadors, agreeing to have his peacekeeping proposal extensively vetted. After the consultations, Ban dropped his proposal to combine political affairs and disarmament. Ban nevertheless pressed ahead with reforms on job requirements at the UN requiring that all positions be considered five-year appointments, all receive strict annual performance reviews, and all financial disclosures be made public. Though unpopular in the New York office, the move was popular in other UN offices around the world and lauded by UN observers. Ban's proposal to split the peacekeeping operation into one group handling operations and another handling arms was finally adopted in mid-March 2007.\n\nThe Secretary-General of the United Nations has the ability to influence debate on nearly any global issue. Although unsuccessful in some areas, Ban's predecessor Annan had been successful in increasing the UN peacekeeping presence and in popularizing the Millennium Development Goals. UN observers were eager to see on which issues Ban intended to focus, in addition to his declared interest in reforming the United Nations bureaucracy.\n\nOn several prominent issues, such as proliferation in Iran and North Korea, Ban has deferred to the Security Council. In 2007, the Republic of Nauru raised the issue of allowing the Republic of China (Taiwan) to sign the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination Against Women. Ban referenced the United Nations General Assembly Resolution 2758, and refused the motion. On 19 July 2007, Taiwanese President Chen Shui-bian wrote to request admission into the UN by the name Taiwan. Ban rejected the request, stating that Resolution 2758 defined Taiwan as part of China.\n\nBan early on identified global warming as one of the key issues of his administration. In a White House meeting with U.S. President George W. Bush in January, Ban urged Bush to take steps to curb greenhouse gas emissions. On 1 March 2007 in a speech before the UN General Assembly, Ban emphasized his concerns about global warming. Ban stated, \"For my generation, coming of age at the height of the Cold War, fear of nuclear winter seemed the leading existential threat on the horizon. But the danger posed by war to all humanity—and to our planet—is at least matched by climate change\" (referring to Global Warming, see portal). On 3 September 2009 he further emphasized his concerns at the World Climate Conference in Geneva, when he stated, \"Our foot is stuck on the accelerator and we are heading towards an abyss\". In September 2014, Ban joined demonstrators in the People's Climate March in New York City, and also called together world leaders for the UN Climate Summit, in preparation for the United Nations Climate Change Conference to be held in Paris in late 2015.\n\nOn Thursday, 22 March 2007, while Ban was taking part in the first stop of a tour of the Middle East, a mortar attack hit just from where the Secretary-General was standing, interrupting a press conference in Baghdad's Green Zone, and visibly shaking Ban and others. No one was hurt in the incident. The United Nations had already limited its role in Iraq after its Baghdad headquarters was bombed in August 2003, killing 22 people. Ban said, however, that he still hoped to find a way for the United Nations to \"do more for Iraqi social and political development\".\n\nOn his trip, Ban visited Egypt, Israel, the West Bank, Jordan, Lebanon and Saudi Arabia, where Ban attended a conference with leaders of the Arab League and met for several hours with Omar Hassan al-Bashir, the Sudanese president who had resisted UN peacekeepers in Darfur. While Ban met with Mahmoud Abbas, the Palestinian president, he declined to meet with Ismail Haniya of Hamas.\nBan Ki-moon criticized Israel on 10 March 2008 for planning to build housing units in a West Bank settlement, saying the decision conflicts with \"Israel's obligation under the road map\" for Middle East peace.\n\nDuring a meeting of the UN Security Council on Wednesday, 7 January 2009, Ban called for an immediate end to fighting in the Gaza Strip. He criticized both sides, Israel for bombarding Gaza and Hamas for firing rockets into Israel.\n\nAlthough the 2009 Iranian presidential election was widely disputed, Ban Ki-moon sent a traditional congratulation message to the Iranian president upon his inauguration. He kept silent over the request of Shirin Ebadi to visit Iran after the crackdown on peaceful post-election protests by the Iranian police, which was perceived as a crime against humanity. More than 4,000 people were arrested and nearly 70 were killed, some while being held in prison. In another incident, several prominent intellectuals, including Akbar Ganji, Hamid Dabashi and Noam Chomsky, went on a three-day hunger strike in front of the UN. The incident was followed by an official request by more than 200 intellectuals, human rights activists and reformist politicians in Iran for the UN reaction. Ban Ki-moon however did not take any action to stop the violence in Iran.\nThe Libyan Civil War began in 2011, the last year of Ban's first term, and dominated his attention and public statements that year. Throughout the conflict, he lobbied for peaceful solutions to the crisis. He frequently spoke out against military action in Libya, believing that a diplomatic solution would be possible and preferable. However, he conceded that if then-leader Muammar Gaddafi refused to abide by a cease fire agreement, the international coalition of military forces would have no choice but to intervene to protect the human rights of Libyans. The Gaddafi government was eventually overthrown and Gaddafi killed in the conflict.\n\nBan took the first foreign trip of his term to attend the African Union summit in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia, in January 2007 as part of an effort to reach out to the Group of 77. He repeatedly identified Darfur as the top humanitarian priority of his administration. Ban played a large role, with several face-to-face meetings with Sudanese President Omar Hassan al-Bashir, in convincing Sudan to allow UN peacekeepers to enter the Darfur region. On 31 July 2007 the United Nations Security Council approved sending 26,000 UN peacekeepers into the region to join 7,000 troops from the African Union. The resolution was heralded as a major breakthrough in confronting the Darfur conflict (although the United States labeled the conflict a \"genocide\", the United Nations has declined to do so). The first phase of the peacekeeping mission began in October 2007.\n\nBan Ki-moon flew to Myanmar on 25 May 2008 to guide a conference with international agencies aimed at boosting donations for the nation, which was struck by Cyclone Nargis on 2 May 2008. The conference was initiated after Ban had met with Than Shwe, the leading figure of Myanmar's government 23 May 2008. Ban toured the devastation—especially in the hard-hit Irrawaddy Delta—23 May 2008 and 24 May 2008. Myanmar officials agreed to allow the Yangon International Airport to be used as a logistical hub for aid distribution.\n\nOn 6 June 2011, Ban Ki-moon formally announced his candidacy for a second consecutive term as Secretary-General of the United Nations. He announced his candidacy at a press conference, following a meeting with the Asian group of countries at the United Nations. Ban Ki-moon's first mandate as the Secretary-General was set to end on 31 December 2011. The five permanent Security Council members supported his candidacy. There was no declared rival for the post.\n\nOn 17 June 2011, he received the recommendation of the Security Council by a unanimous vote, and, on 21 June, his nomination was confirmed by a unanimous acclamation vote at the United Nations General Assembly. His new five-year term as Secretary-General commenced on 1 January 2012 and ended on 31 December 2016.\n\nBan appointed Swedish diplomat Jan Eliasson as his new Deputy Secretary-General on 2 March 2012. His Chief of Staff is Edmond Mulet of Guatemala. The appointments were part of Ban's commitment to replace top positions in his group for his second term.\n\nSince beginning his second term in January 2012, Ban has focused his public statements and speeches on peace and equality in the Middle East and on equality issues.\n\nThe aftermath of the Libyan Civil War and other events of the Arab Spring continued to command Ban's attention with the start of his second term. He focused in 2012 on what he termed \"intolerance\" in the Arab world. After travelling to Vienna to participate in the opening of the KAICIID Dialogue Centre to foster interreligious dialogue, Ban commented, \"Many countries in the Arab world including Saudi Arabia are changing. Since the Arab Spring, the leaders have begun to listen to the voice of their people.\" He was however criticised in the Austrian press for associating himself with a project of Saudi King Abdullah, Saudi Arabia being a location of perceived religious intolerance.\n\nThroughout 2012, Ban expressed his concern about the continuing Israeli–Palestinian conflict, in particular the condition of the Palestinian hunger strikers in Israeli prisons and the movement restrictions imposed on Gaza Strip residents. On 30 August 2012 Ban criticized the Iranian leadership due to their statements regarding Israel's destruction and denying the Holocaust. On 16 August 2013, Ban Ki-moon admitted that the UN was biased against Israel, stating in a meeting with Israeli students that there was a biased attitude towards the Israeli people and Israeli government at the UN. He described this as \"an unfortunate situation.\" A few days later, he backtracked on the utterance. During an interview on 16 December 2016, Ban said that the UN has issued a \"disproportionate volume of resolutions, reports and conferences criticizing Israel.\"\n\nOn 26 January 2016, Ban made a statement in relation to the attacks by Palestinians against Israelis. Ban Ki-moon said that \"as oppressed peoples have demonstrated throughout the ages, it is human nature to react to occupation, which often serves as a potent incubator of hate and extremism\". In rebuking Ban's statement, the Israeli PM Benjamin Netanyahu stated that \"there is no justification for terror\".\n\nBan has criticized Saudi Arabian-led intervention in Yemen, saying: \"Grave violations against children increased dramatically as a result of the escalating conflict\". In June 2016, Ban Ki-moon removed a Saudi-led coalition from a list of children's rights violators. He later admitted that Saudi Arabia threatened to cut Palestinian aid and funds to other UN programs if coalition was not removed from blacklist for killing children in Yemen. According to one source, there was also a threat of \"clerics in Riyadh meeting to issue a fatwa against the UN, declaring it anti-Muslim, which would mean no contacts of OIC members, no relations, contributions, support, to any UN projects, programs\".\n\nOn 26 June 2016, during a speech in Saint Petersburg, Russia, Ban said Russia \"has a critical role to play\" in addressing global issues \"from ending the conflicts in Ukraine and Syria, to safeguarding human rights and controlling the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction.\" His comments were condemned by Ukraine's UN envoy Volodymyr Yelchenko, saying that he doesn't understand how the UN chief \"can say such things which sort of praise the role of Russia in settling the conflict in Ukraine when the Russian Federation is the main player in aggressing Ukraine and in keeping this conflict boiling.\" He also noted that Russia is being accused of human rights abuses in Crimea and is \"building up the nuclear potential\" on the peninsula.\n\nOn 7 March 2012 Ban delivered a speech titled \"The Time Has Come\" to the United Nations Human Rights Council urging the Council to place greater emphasis on combating homophobia and promoting LGBT rights around the world. The speech was met by a protest by a group of delegates, who organized a walk-out protest during the speech.\n\nDuring a speech at the UN headquarters commemorating Human Rights Day, Ban condemned countries with anti-gay laws, mentioning 76 countries that criminalize homosexuality. He said:\n\nBan has told senior managers that homophobia will not be tolerated. He pointed to countries such as Ukraine which has proposed criminalizing public discussion about homosexuality as threatening basic human rights. He further stated that government has a duty to defend vulnerable minorities. In April 2013, he described LGBT rights as one of the great neglected human rights of our time. He also said that religion, culture or tradition can never justify denial of basic rights.\n\nBan has been organizing and moderating the Geneva II Conference on Syria.\n\nOn 25 January 2012, Ban announced that he would convene the world's first summit on humanitarian aid in order to \"share knowledge and establish common best practices.\" Known as the World Humanitarian Summit, the event took place in the 23–24 May 2016 in Istanbul, Turkey. In preparation for the summit, Ban released a report on 9 February 2016 titled ‘One Humanity, Shared Responsibility’ in which he laid out an \"Agenda for Humanity\" based on consultations with more than 23,000 people in 153 countries. The Agenda for Humanity outlines what is needed to reform humanitarian action, including political leadership to prevent and end conflict, new forms of financing, and a shift from providing aid to ending need. The summit is scheduled to include 5,000 participants, including representatives from governments, NGOs, civil society organizations, and the private sector, as well as individuals affected by humanitarian crises.\n\nAccording to \"The Washington Post\", \"some UN employees and delegates\" expressed resentment at Ban's perceived favoritism in the appointment of South Korean nationals in key posts. Previous UN chiefs such as Kurt Waldheim (Austria), Javier Pérez de Cuéllar (Peru), and Boutros Boutros-Ghali (Egypt) brought small teams of trusted aides or clerical workers from their country's Foreign Ministry, and South Korean nationals have been historically underrepresented at the United Nations. Nonetheless, according to \"some officials\" in the \"Post\" story, Ban had allegedly gone further, boosting South Korea's presence in UN ranks by more than 20 percent during his first year in office. In response, Ban and his aides stated that the allegations of favoritism are wrong, and that some of the harshest criticisms against him have undercurrents of racism. He said that the South Korean nationals he had appointed—including Choi Young-jin, who had already served as a high-ranking official in the United Nations' peacekeeping department—are highly qualified for their positions. Others such as Donald P. Gregg, a former U.S. ambassador to South Korea, said that the complaints were driven by envy: \"I think being from South Korea, and people have growing respect for South Korea, that's a great enhancement for the secretary general. If he brings along talented people who he knows very well, I think that's also a plus.\" UN records show that South Korea, the organization's eleventh-largest financial contributor, had only 54 South Korean nationals assigned to its mission six months before Ban took over the top UN post. By contrast, the Philippines, a significantly poorer country, had 759 nationals in its mission.\n\nFormer UN Under Secretary General for Oversight Services Inga-Britt Ahlenius denounced Ban Ki-moon after resigning her post in 2010, calling him \"reprehensible\". Ahlenius claimed that the Secretary-General made efforts to undermine the Office of Internal Oversight Services (OIOS) mandate and challenge its operational independence. In particular, the two disputed Ahlenius's plans to hire a former prosecutor, Robert Appleton, who had carried out investigations into corruption in UN peacekeeping missions from 2006 to 2009. Ban's staff explained that Appleton's appointment was rejected because Ahlenius had not properly considered female candidates for the appointment, and said that the final selection should have been made by Ban, not Ahlenius. Ahlenius claimed in her End of Assignment memo that \"for the Secretary-General to control appointments in OIOS is an infringement of the operational independence of OIOS\". Ban's chief of staff Vijay Nambiar described Ahlenius's complaints as \"a deeply unbalanced account\", and also stated that \"many pertinent facts were overlooked or misrepresented\" in Ahlenius's memo. Nambiar further noted that Ban \"fully recognizes the operational independence of OIOS, [but that] does not excuse [Ahlenius] from applying the standard rules of recruitment\".\n\nAmerican diplomat James Wasserstrom claimed that Ban attempted to limit the jurisdiction of the UN dispute tribunal following Wasserstrom's dismissal from his Kosovo post and lengthy appeals process. Ban had refused to hand over confidential documents relating to the case to the UN personnel tribunal, despite repeated orders by the court to do so. In relation to another case, Ban was admonished by Judge Michael Adams for \"willful disobedience\" for again refusing to hand over key documents in an internal promotions dispute.\n\nIn 2013, Ban was accused of undermining collective bargaining rights of The Staff Coordinating Council, the union representing United Nations staff. Ban unilaterally eliminated the role of the union to negotiate on behalf of the employees and terminated talks when the union protested.\n\nBan was named in a lawsuit challenging UN legal immunity on behalf of Haitian cholera victims in the U.S. District Court of Manhattan. UN peacekeepers from Nepal are said to be the source of the 2010–13 Haiti cholera outbreak. Ban declared that the legal immunity of the United Nations before national courts should be upheld, but that this does not reduce the UN's moral responsibility to overcome Haiti's cholera epidemic. In January 2015, Judge J. Paul Oetken dismissed the lawsuit, affirming UN immunity. An appeal to Oetken's decision was submitted to the Court in May 2015.\n\nBritish magazine \"The Economist\", in May 2016, called Ban \"plodding, protocol-conscious and loth to stand up to the big powers\" and \"the dullest—and among the worst\" secretary-generals. Japanese diplomat Kiyotaka Akasaka defended Ban's understated presence as more quietly Confucian, stating that \"[Ban's] behaviour has been like that of the wise man, the sage in Oriental philosophy\". One UN official claimed that while Ban would greet world leaders in their native language, he would then read directly from his talking points without small talk. The UN official opined, \"Quiet diplomacy? He [Ban] displayed no skills for that.” South African lawyer Nicholas Haysom also defended Ban, saying that the news media \"caricatured [Ban] as invisible when he made outspoken comments that the media then failed to report\".\n\nUntil the outbreak of the 2016 South Korean political scandal, Ban was the leading potential candidate for President of South Korea in 2017. However, recent polls showed Moon Jae-in of the main opposition Minjoo Party of Korea in the lead with a support rating of 32.8 percent, while Ban trailed in distant second with 15.4 percent. Moon was eventually elected president on 10 May.\nAlthough Ban repeatedly expressed his desires for running, a UN resolution in 1946 says \"a Secretary-General should refrain from accepting\" any Governmental position \"at any rate immediately on retirement.\" Exceptions to the rule have been made in past history with the 1986 election of Kurt Waldheim to the post of President of Austria, although the position is ceremonial in nature.\n\nContrary to Ban's public comments hinting at any likely run, private reports indicated otherwise. Kim Jong-pil, former Prime Minister of South Korea, was reported to say that Ban Ki-moon would announce his candidacy for the presidency shortly after his term as Secretary-General ends. Ban was originally predicted to run under the conservative Saenuri Party, but President Park Geyn-hye's scandal cast doubts as to which party Ban would run under.\n\nBan returned to South Korea on 13 January 2017. On 1 February 2017 he announced he would not be a candidate for president.\n\nIn 2017, Ban and Heinz Fischer, former president of Austria, founded, and are co-chairs of, the Ban Ki-moon Centre for Global Citizens in Vienna, Austria. The nonprofit group's mission is to support youth and women, working within the UN's Sustainable Development Goal frameworks.\n\nIn early 2018, Ban was elected to lead the international climate group Global Green Growth Institute (GGGI). Effective Feb. 20, 2018, he will serve a 2-year term in the dual roles of President of the Assembly and Chair of the Council.\n\nBan Ki-moon met Yoo Soon-taek in 1962 when they were both in high school. Ban was 18 years old, and Yoo Soon-taek was his secondary school's student council president. Ban Ki-moon married Yoo Soon-taek in 1971.\n\nThey have three adult children: two daughters and a son. His elder daughter, Seon-yong, was born in 1972 and now works for the Korea Foundation in Seoul. Her spouse is a native of India. His son Woo-hyun was born in 1974 in India. He received an MBA from Anderson School of Management at University of California, Los Angeles, and works for an investment firm in New York. His younger daughter, Hyun-hee (born 1976), is a field officer for UNICEF in Nairobi. After his election as Secretary-General, Ban became an icon in his hometown, where his extended family still resides. Over 50,000 gathered in a soccer stadium in Chungju for celebration of the result. In the months following his election, thousands of practitioners of geomancy went to his village to determine how it produced such an important person. Ban himself is not a member of any church or religious group and has declined to expound his beliefs: \"Now, as Secretary-General, it will not be appropriate at this time to talk about my own belief in any particular religion or god. So maybe we will have some other time to talk about personal matters.\" His mother is Buddhist.\n\nOn 10 January 2017, Ban's brother Ban Ki-sang and nephew Bahn Joo-hyun have been indicted on U.S. charges that they engaged in a scheme to bribe a Middle Eastern official in connection with the attempted $800 million sale of a building complex in Vietnam. On 6 September 2018, Bahn Joo-hyun was sentenced to six months in prison in Manhattan federal court.\n\nDuring his tenure at the South Korean Foreign Ministry, Ban's nickname was \"jusa\" (주사), meaning \"the administrative clerk\". The name was used as both positive and negative: complimenting Ban's attention to detail and administrative skill while deriding what was seen as a lack of charisma and subservience to his superiors. The South Korean press corps calls him \"the slippery eel\" (기름장어), for his ability to dodge questions. His peers praise his understated \"Confucian approach\", and he is regarded by many as a \"stand-up guy\" and is known for his \"easy smile\". After he assumed a post of United Nations secretary general, he was caricatured as \"invisible man\", \"powerless observer\", or \"nowhere man\" for his lack of powerful personality and leadership.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37937398", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37937398", "title": "Belgrade Cooperative", "text": "Belgrade Cooperative\n\nBelgrade Cooperative () was a cooperative bank founded in 1882 to promote savings and support small enterprises, craftspeople and the poor of Belgrade. Member-shareholders have been paying membership in amount of one Serbian Dinar per week. That is the way for cooperative to become a public savings bank. Luka Ćelović was the first president of cooperative, also a first Serbian insurance group.\n\nThe construction of Belgrade Cooperative coincided with the change of political regime in Serbia. After the assassination of the king Aleksandar Obrenović, the Karadjordjevic dynasty came to power, which led to a change in the system of governance. Autocratic regime was replaced by liberal bourgeois regime of Petar the I, the civil liberties were increased and the economic situation was improved.\n\n\"Belgrade cooperative for mutual help and savings\" was founded in 1882 at the initiative of a group of Belgrade merchants, with the idea of investing into Serbia economy. This type of investment was a modern form of credit and an advanced method for reviving both the trading business and the market within the capitalist economy. \nSince 1897, when the Department of Insurance was founded, in addition to the cooperative banking activity, Belgrade Cooperative was increasingly developed as an insurance company. From being the savings fund and loaning money to the small proprietors, the Cooperative developed into the strong financial organization which loaned money to the city and state. Branches were open in Skopje and Thessaloniki.\n\nAs such, it operated until 1944, representing one of the most important institutions of its kind. Some of the most important figures of economic and financial life of Serbia were once acting as a president of Belgrade Cooperative - its organizer and principal job coordinator, Luka Ćelović, subsequent donor and benefactor of Belgrade University, Kosta Taušanović and Lazar Paču, the financial leaders of Serbia of their time, public figures, prominent politicians and statesmen, as well as other well-known Belgrade businessmen, Đorđe Vajfert, Dimitirije Ćirković and others.\n\nAt the regular shareholders meeting in 1897, it was decided that a new building will be erected and so multiple properties were bought belonging to Krsmanović brothers, Gođevac brothers, Municipality of Belgrade, Vuja Ranković and Luka Ćelović, in close vicinity to the so-called Little Market on the Sava River. The construction began in the spring of 1905 and was completed in 1907, in the record time for that period.\n\nThe total floor area covers .\n\nBelgrade Cooperative Building was built according to the project by two leading Belgrade architects, University professors, Andra Stevanović and Nikola Nestorović. The majority of the building was constructed on the old embankment, and since the land was underwater due to the proximity of the river, the foundation of many walls has to be made of reinforced concrete, the first time in Belgrade, but using the iron for clamps, since there were was no round iron in Belgrade at the time.\n\nThe contractors of construction works were brothers Stok. All cut stone materials were made by the \"Industry of Ripanj granite.\" Decorations on the facades and interior, with rich decorative plastic in stucco on the walls and on the ceiling, are work of Franja Valdman, the sculptor of building ornaments.\n\nDecorative paintings in the main entrance are work of Bora Kovačević and Andrea Domenico, while the paintings on glass were made by R. Marković.\n\nBelgrade cooperative moved into the new building immediately after the completion of construction in 1907 and remained there until its abolition.\n\nThe building was later used by the Geological Geophysical Institute \"Jovan Žujović\".\n\nThe social status of the Belgrade Cooperative dictated that the representativeness and monumentality become the only possible architectural concept.\n\nIt was designed in the style of academism, with elements borrowed from both eclectic academic style, as well as contemporary Art Nouveau architecture. It was built as a monumental corner building with three wings in the floor plan at the irregular plot. The most representative part of the building is the prominent and jagged central part, where the public rooms are located, with the main facade in Karadjordjeva Street. The wings in Travnička and Hercegovačka Streets in which the workrooms are located have simple facades with uniform peaceful rhythm and different composition in every elevation. The central wing facing the street has two floors – the entrance and the ceremonial hall with the vestibule that extends through two floors and one storey Counter hall in the rear, while both side wings have a ground floor and two floors. Shops were once located on the ground floor of the side wings while the administrative and management offices were on the first floor.\n\nThe Belgrade Cooperative building was built using mixed techniques. Cellars, which extend beneath the entire building, are made of reinforced concrete, with Prussian vaults. Most of the building was built using a standard procedure, brick in lime mortar, and only partly in reinforced concrete. Bridging is architrave for the side wings, and the architrave and arch in the middle wing. Lantern construction above the central staircase is resolved in the form of triangular metal grille. Roofs have jamb walls, small slope and domes. Façade which is facing the street is made in stone slabs in socle zone and dressed in artificial stone, while the courtyard façade is plastered.\n\nStructural system has vaults and marble columns. Main staircases are three-armed, stone or marble, while side staircases are spiral and iron. The interior walls are plastered and painted, while the representative rooms are decorated with wall paintings and marble imitation and have pilasters with gilded capitals and applied polychrome decorative female masks. The floors have parquet or terrazzo tiles. On the facades decoration was made of artificial stone, while the interior is in stucco and plaster.\n\nAll the decorative motifs of Belgrade Cooperative Building are borrowed from post Renaissance, predominantly Baroque, but modernly interpreted to form the unique style expression. Frontal facade is dominated by the large glass surface above which is a dome with merlon flanked by sculptural group consisting of a female figure, the personification of Serbia and four children's figures that embody the Industry. In the niches on the side projections of the main façade are the figures of a Woman with beehive and a Man with a scroll. Inside the building in the main hall, at the beginning of the staircase there are two counterpart figures of a young woman in the form of a chandelier. Above the gallery in the main hall there is a sculptural group consisting of a female figure with a crown, again a symbol of Serbia and two children figures representing the insurance and banking. Metal figure, probably an import, is gilded, as well as all stucco decoration. On the top of pilaster strips, above the windows of the first floor and in the amount of ground-floor windows on the side walls there is a number of reliefs in the form of female masks, while the mask of Mercury is positioned above the entrance.\nThe unity of architecture and applied decorative arts in the interior of the Belgrade Cooperative building is clearly visible. That kind of unity is particularly valued in European architecture from the late 19th and early 20th century and is known as the \"synthesis of art\". This \"synthesis of art\" is extremely rare in Belgrade architecture and it makes Belgrade Cooperative building a unique creation. \nEach of the decorative elements, such as the paintings on the walls and ceilings, sculptures, stucco decorations, chandeliers and appliqué on the walls, painted glass parapet at the Counter-hall or glass surfaces of windows and doors of the main hall, are distinctive features which is why Belgrade Cooperative became a cultural monument in 1966.\n\nThe building is often named as one of the most beautiful buildings in Belgrade.\n\nBelgrade Cooperative Building was renovated several times. The most important changes in the construction and architectural structure were made in 1956/57 and 1958/59. During those years, the Geological Geophysical Institute made a decision to extend the building by adding the third floor above both wings in Travnička and Hercegovačka streets, and then three floors above the central wing in the yard around the former Counter hall. These extensions altered the general appearance of the building by removing the wing’s domes, the attic became floor, windows and doors in the ground floor were walled up and shop doors become windows of offices. Merlon was removed from the central dome as well as the clock from the main façade. The Counter-hall inside the block remained on the ground floor and it was lit through light well.\n\nBelgrade Cooperative is one of the most significant buildings in Belgrade and Serbian architecture in the first decade of the 20th century and one of the most successful achievements of architects Andra Stevanović and Nikola Nestorović. Architectural concept, compliance of building’s functional and compositional elements, rich sculptural and decorative plastics, style consistency, construction quality, new construction methods used for the first time, new materials and other architectural features put this building among the most representative palaces in Belgrade architecture. Belgrade Cooperative building is one of the few buildings that represent the beginning of the modern reconstruction of Belgrade along the Sava embankment. Belgrade Cooperative Building is a cultural monument of value for the Republic of Serbia since 1979 (Decision, \"Službeni glasnik SRS\" no. 14/79).\n\nCity's Institute for the protection of the cultural monuments drafted the reconstruction project for the building in 2009. Authored by Aleksandra Šević and Ljiljana Konta, the project was to include the complete rebuilding of the, today non-existing, two side domes. They were to be built of wood and steel and look the same as the small domes on the head façade. Deteriorated sculpture on the front dome was to be removed and replaced by the new one, made of metal. A mast, which once stood on the central dome, will also be rebuilt and also serve as the lightning rod. Due to the lack of funds, the project didn't went on.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53298220", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53298220", "title": "Beutelsbach consensus", "text": "Beutelsbach consensus\n\nThe Beutelsbach Consensus constitutes a kind of minimum standard of civic (\"Politische Bildung\") and religious education (\"Religionsunterricht\") in Germany. It was developed in the frame of a conference at a small town called Beutelsbach to reanimate the exchange of different didactic schools after a period of deep conflicts. Until today Beutelsbach Consensus is of high importance.\n\nIt is not permissible to catch pupils unprepared or unaware - by whatever means - for the sake of imparting desirable opinions and to hinder them from `forming an independent judgment’. It is precisely at this point that the dividing line runs between political education and indoctrination. Indoctrination is incompatible with the role of a teacher in a democratic society and the universally accepted objective of making pupils capable of independent judgment (Mündigkeit).\n\nMatters which are controversial in intellectual and political affairs must also be taught as controversial in educational instruction. This demand is very closely linked with the first point above, for if differing points of view are lost sight of, options suppressed, and alternatives remain undiscussed, then the path to indoctrination is being trodden. We have to ask whether teachers have in fact a corrective role to play. That is, whether they should or should not specially set out such points of view and alternatives which are foreign to the social and political origins of pupils (and other participants in programs of political education).\nIn affirming this second basic principle, it becomes clear why the personal standpoint of teachers, the intellectual and theoretical views they represent and their political opinions are relatively uninteresting. To repeat an example that has already been given: their understanding of democracy presents no problems, for opinions contrary to theirs are also being taken into account.\n\nPupils must be put in a position to analyse a political situation and to assess how their own personal interests are affected as well as to seek means and ways to influence the political situation they have identified according to their personal interests. Such an objective brings a strong emphasis on the acquisition of the necessary operational skills, which is in turn a logical consequence of the first two principles set out above. In this connection the reproach is sometimes made that this is a `return to formalism’, so that teachers do not have to correct the content of their own beliefs. This is not the case since what is involved here is not a search for a maximum consensus, but the search for a minimal consensus.\n\nTranslated from: Das Konsensproblem in der Politischen Bildung ed. by S. Schiele and H. Schneider, Stuttgart 1977 (Translation by R. L. Cope)\n"}
{"id": "16008235", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16008235", "title": "Centurion guard", "text": "Centurion guard\n\nCenturion Technologies\nwww.centuriontech.com\nThe Centurion Guard is a PC hardware and software based security product developed by Centurion Technologies and released in 1996. There were many different releases and versions of this product, and many were distributed in the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation computers that were donated to libraries.\n\n"}
{"id": "2079080", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2079080", "title": "Chemical Diversion and Trafficking Act", "text": "Chemical Diversion and Trafficking Act\n\nThe Chemical Diversion and Trafficking Act of 1988 was an amendment to the Controlled Substances Act to regulate precursor chemicals, essential chemicals, tableting machines, and encapsulating machines by imposing record keeping and import/export reporting requirements on transactions involving these materials. Prior to these restrictions being put in place, the U.S. had been the primary source of chemicals used in South American cocaine manufacture. According to the DEA, the Act sharply reduced these precursor exports and cocaine manufacturers responded by purchasing from chemical suppliers outside the U.S. The U.S. in turn successfully lobbied for inclusion of chemical controls in the 1988 United Nations Convention Against Illicit Traffic in Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances, which included two Tables of controlled precursors.\n\nThe subtitle is cited as the Chemical Diversion and Trafficking Act of 1988.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8098426", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8098426", "title": "Christian Democratic Party (France)", "text": "Christian Democratic Party (France)\n\nThe Christian Democratic Party (, PCD) is a conservative Christian-democratic party in France. The party was known as the Forum of Social Republicans (FRS) between 2001 and June 2009 before being adopting its current name. The party was founded by Christine Boutin.\n\nThe FRS was established in March 2001 as a social conservative faction within the Christian democratic Union for French Democracy (UDF) and emerged as an independent party in December of the same year, when Boutin announced her candidacy in the French presidential election, 2002, in contrast with UDF leader and official candidate François Bayrou, and was consequently expelled.\n\nIn 2005, the FRS called for a NO vote in the referendum over the Treaty establishing a Constitution for Europe.\n\nThe PCD is a Christian democratic social conservative party, opposed to gay marriage, abortion and euthanasia.\n\nThe PCD is an associate party of the Union for a Popular Movement and is a member of the Liaison Committee for the Presidential Majority.\n\nSince November 2013, Jean-Frédéric Poisson has been the new president of the party.\n\n\nThe party also claims 9,500 members as of 2009.\n\n"}
{"id": "27179299", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27179299", "title": "Climate bond", "text": "Climate bond\n\nClimate bonds (also known as green bonds) are fixed-income financial instruments (bonds) linked in some way to climate change solutions.\n\nClimate bonds are a relatively new asset class, but they are growing rapidly. The total volume of climate bonds was estimated at 160 billions of dollars on 2016; of which 70 billions were issued in 2016.\n\nVoters in the City of San Francisco approved a revenue bond authority in 2001, in the form of a city charter amendment (Section 9.107.8) known as the \"solar bonds,\" to finance renewable energy and energy conservation measures on homes, businesses and government buildings. The campaign for solar bonds, Proposition H, was motivated by the need for the city to take meaningful action on climate change. The solar bond authority was being used as part of the city's renewable energy program, administered by the San Francisco Public Utilities Commission, CleanPowerSF.\n\nEuropean Investment Bank (EIB) issued an equity index-linked bond in 2007, which became the first fixed income product among socially responsible investments. This “Climate Awareness Bond” structure was used to fund renewable energy and energy efficiency projects. Afterwards, The World Bank became first in the world to issue a labelled “green bond” in 2008, which followed a conventional “plain vanilla” bond structure, contrary to EIB’s equity-linked Climate Awareness Bond.\n\nThe green bond market has subsequently increased rapidly in issuance. From 2015 to 2016, the Climate Bonds Initiative reports that there was a 92% increase in green bonds issuance to $92 billion, with different types of issuers starting to issue green bonds. Apple, for example, became the first tech company to issue a green bond in 2016, and Poland became the first sovereign country to issue a green bond at the end of 2016.\n\nClimate bonds are issued in order to raise finance for climate change solutions: climate change mitigation or adaptation related projects or programs. These might be greenhouse gas emission reduction projects ranging from clean energy to energy efficiency, or climate change adaptation projects ranging from building Nile delta flood defences or helping the Great Barrier Reef adapt to warming waters.\n\nLike normal bonds, climate bonds can be issued by governments, multi-national banks or corporations. The issuing entity guarantees to repay the bond over a certain period of time, plus either a fixed or variable rate of return.\n\nMost climate bonds are asset-backed, or ringfenced, with investors being promised that all funds raised will only go to specified climate-related programs or assets, such as renewable energy plants or climate mitigation focused funding programs.\n\nIn their UNEP paper on investors and climate change, Mackenzie and Ascui differentiate a climate bond from a green bond:\n“(A climate bond is) an extension of the green bond concept. Green bonds are issued [...] in order to raise the finance for an environmental project. Climate bonds [are] issued [...] to raise finance for investments in emission reduction or climate change adaptation.”\n\nThe London-based Climate Bond Standards Board provides a certification program for climate bonds.\n\nClimate bonds are theme bonds, similar in principle to a railway bond of the 19th century, the war bonds of the early 20th century or the highway bond of the 1960s. Theme bonds are designed to:\n\nOtherwise, for operational purposes, theme bonds largely function as conventional debt instruments. They are risk-weighted and credit rated in the usual way based on the creditworthiness of the issuer, and tradable, market conditions permitting, in international secondary bond markets. These instruments can theoretically be issued at all levels of the fixed income market, from sovereigns to corporate.\n\nThe growth of bond markets provides increasing opportunities to \nfinance the implementation of the Sustainable Development Goals, Nationally Determined Contributions and other green growth projects. Green bonds are becoming an increasingly prevalent form of green finance, particularly for clean and sustainable infrastructure development and their large funding needs. They offer a vehicle to both access finance from the capital markets and deliver green impacts that can be verified against standards. In developing countries, green bonds are already financing critical projects, including renewable energy, \nurban mass transit systems and water distribution.\n\nGreen bonds mobilised over $93 billion in 2016 to projects and assets with positive environmental impacts. At the current growth rate, they could mobilise over $200 billion in 2017.\n\nOf total global bond issuance, however, this is still around just 1%.\n\nAccording to a report by the Climate and Development Knowledge Network (CDKN) and PricewaterhouseCoopers, a green bond market has three key benefits to a country and its environmental goals and commitments.\n\n\nThe Business and Sustainable Development Commission describes at least US$12 trillion in market opportunities for business from sustainable business models.\n\nThe United Nations estimates an annual funding gap of $2.5 trillion is needed for the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), and within this, US$1 trillion is needed annually for clean energy alone. A large number and broad range of projects and assets that contribute to achieving the 17 SDGs need this funding for their development and operation.\n\nOne of the SDGs where ‘green finance’ has been successfully mobilised is on clean energy and climate action. The Paris Agreement on climate change entered into force in November 2016, after 196 countries committed to reducing greenhouse gas emissions. Significant quantities of finance are now needed to convert country commitments (Nationally Determined Contributions, NDCs) to implementation and a low-carbon, climate-resilient economy.\n\nDespite recent increases in volumes of climate finance, a significant funding gap will arise unless new sources and channels of finance are mobilised.\n\nExisting international public finance dedicated to climate change is unable to achieve the rapid change required in meeting the finance gap alone. Furthermore, public sector balance sheets do not have the capacity to fund the amounts needed, and so an estimated 80–90% of funding will need to come from the private sector.\n\nBank balance sheets can take only a proportion of the private finance needed so the capital markets have to be leveraged, along with other sources such as insurance and peer-to-peer.\n\nAccording to GUIDE: New markets for green bonds, the demand for green bonds has grown quickly on the investor side, with asset owners and managers diversifying their investment portfolios and seeking positive impact beyond financial return. In the light of the global commitment to shift to a green and low-carbon economy, the green bond market has the potential to grow substantially, while attracting more diverse issuers and investors.\n\nThe green bond market has attracted international criticism with some questioning the green credentials of certain bonds. This criticism pertains both to the projects that are funded, as well as the sustainability credentials of the issuers. In May 2017, the Climate Bonds Initiative refused to list a “green” bond issued by Repsol. The bonds proceeds would be allocated to initiatives meant to improve the efficiency of the company’s oil and gas production operations. The NGO argued that - even though the projects would reduce CO2 emissions - the company’s sustainability strategy did not go far enough from an environmental perspective to classify it as green. This criticism was extended to Vigeo Eiris, the ratings agency which certified the Repsol bond’s green credentials. In 2016, Vigeo Eiris was involved in another green bond controversy. The ratings agency was targeted by Western Sahara Resource Watch, an NGO backed by a Norwegian trade union, after it certified a green bond that would fund the production of solar projects by a Moroccan government agency in the illegally occupied territory of Western Sahara.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40362555", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40362555", "title": "Communist front", "text": "Communist front\n\nA Communist front organization is an organization identified as a front organization under the effective control of a Communist party, the Communist International or other Communist organizations. They attracted politicized individuals who were not Party members but who often followed the Party line and were called Fellow travellers.\n\nLenin originated the idea in his manifesto of 1902, \"What Is to Be Done?\". Since the party was illegal in Russia, he proposed to reach the masses through \"a large number of other organizations intended for wide membership and, which, therefore, can be as loose and as public as possible,\" Generally called \"mass organizations\" by the Communists themselves, these groups were prevalent from the 1920s through the 1950s, with their use accelerating during the Popular Front period of the 1930s. The term has also been used to refer to organizations not originally Communist-controlled which after a time became so, such as the American Student Union. The term was especially used by anti-communists during the Cold War (1947-1991).\n\nMao Zedong broke bitterly with the Soviet Union in the late 1950s. He set up a network of pro-Chinese, anti-Soviet parties and Communist fronts that directly challenged the pro-Soviet organizations.\n\nUnder the leadership of Grigory Zinoviev in the Kremlin, established fronts in many countries in the 1920s and after. To coordinate their activities the Communist International (Comintern) set up various international umbrella organizations (linking groups across national borders), such as the Young Communist International (youth), Profintern (trade unions), Krestintern (peasants), International Red Aid (humanitarian aid), Sportintern (organized sports), etc. In Europe, front organizations were especially influential in Italy and France, which in 1933 became the base for Communist front organizer Willi Münzenberg. These organizations were dissolved the late 1930s or early 1940s.\n\nCommunist fronts typically attracted well-known and prestigious artists, intellectuals and other \"fellow travelers\" who were used to advance Party positions. Often they came to the USSR for closely controlled tours, then returned home to praise the future as revealed in the Soviet experiment.\n\nAccording to Kennedy (1957), after the war, especially as the Cold War took effect around 1947, the Kremlin set up new international coordination bodies including the World Federation of Democratic Youth, International Union of Students, World Federation of Trade Unions, Women's International Democratic Federation, and the World Peace Council. Kennedy says the, \"Communist 'front' system included such international organizations as the WFTU, WFDY, IUS, WIDF and WPC, besides a host of lesser bodies bringing journalists, lawyers, scientists, doctors and others into the widespread net.\"\n\nThe International Federation of Resistance Fighters – Association of Anti-Fascists (FIR) was designated by government agencies as a communist-influenced organization.\n\nThe World Federation of Scientific Workers (WFSW) is an international federation of scientific associations. It was a Cold War-era Communist front. The group was composed of scientists who supported communism. The federation opposed nuclear tests conducted by the United States.\n\nThe Union for repatriation of Russians abroad was Soviet front organization aimed at infiltration and control of the exiled community of White Russians.\n\nThe International Organization of Journalists (IOJ) was one of dozen front organizations launched by the Soviet Union in the late 1940s and early 1950s. It was controlled in Prague by the Central Committee of the Czechoslovak Communist Party and with many KGB agents on board was a \"long hand\" of Moscow.\n\nThe World Federation of Trade Unions (WFTU) was established in 1945 to unite trade union confederations across the world; it was based in Prague. While it had non-Communist unions it was largely dominated by the Soviets. In 1949 the British, American and other non-Communist unions broke away to form the rival International Confederation of Free Trade Unions. The labor movement in Europe became so polarized between the Communists unions and the Social Democratic and Christian labor unions, and front operations could no longer hide the sponsorship and they became less important.\n\nThe then president, Ronald Reagan, in 1984, on the grounds of supposedly pro-Soviet trends, left the UNESCO.\n\nWith the end of the Cold War in 1989, and the demise of the Soviet Union in 1991, funding and support systems collapsed and many front organizations shut down or were exposed. For example, post-Communist Moscow newspapers reported the World Peace Council, based in Helsinki, Finland, had received policy guidance and 90% of its funding from Moscow.\n\nThe Berlin Conference of European Catholics, originally the Berlin Conference of Catholic Christians from European countries, was a conference held on the 17 and 18 November 1964 in East Berlin and organized with the support of the GDR government and the cooperation of the GDR state security. The historian Clemens Vollnhal arranges them as a Communist front organization.\n\nMembers of the Christian Peace Conference were churches from the socialist countries as well as church communities and individuals from other countries. In the face of their initiation with the help of socialist states, which Christians were difficult to discriminate against and partly pursue, and the proximity to Marxism, the Christian Peace Conference is regarded as controversial. Historians and the media classify CPC as a Communist front organization.\n\nDuring the Cold War, Mondpaca Esperantista Movado (MEM) was able to conduct official activities on behalf of Esperanto in East Bloc countries on the condition that it must support their Communist governments and the Soviet viewpoint.\n\nThe World Federation of Teachers Unions (FISE), the Organization of Solidarity with the People of Asia, Africa and Latin America (OSPAAAL) and the International Radio and Television Organisation (OIRT) were also front organisations.\n\nThe Pan-Pacific Trade Union Secretariat (PPTUS) was set up in 1927 by the Profintern (the Comintern's trade union arm) with the mission of promoting Communist trade unions in China, Japan, Korea, the Philippines, Australia, New Zealand and other nations in the western Pacific. Trapeznik (2009) says the PPTUS was a \"Communist-front organization\" and \"engaged in overt and covert political agitation in addition to a number of clandestine activities.\" \n\nThere were numerous Communist front organizations in Asia, many oriented to students and youth.\n\nIn Japan in the labor union movement of the 1920s, according to one historian, \"The Hyogikai never called itself a communist front but in effect, this was what it was.\" He points out it was repressed by the government \"along with other communist front groups.\" In the 1950s, Scalapino argues, \"The primary Communist-front organization was the Japan Peace Committee.\" It was founded in 1949.\n\nConsentrasi Gerakan Mahasiswa Indonesia ('Unified Movement of Students of Indonesia', abbreviated CGMI) was an organization of university students in Indonesia, linked to the Communist Party of Indonesia. CGMI was founded in 1956, through the merger of communist-led university student groups in Bogor, Bandung and Yogyakarta (which had emerged in the early 1950s). At the time of its founding, CGMI had a membership of around 1,180.\n\nFadjar Harapan ('Dawn of Hope') was a short-lived Indonesian pioneer organization, linked to the Communist Party of Indonesia (PKI). \"Fadjar Harapan\" was founded in 1959, albeit that there already was an existing Scouting movement initiated by the Communist Party. However, the organization was officially not connected to any political party (according to the constitution of the organization) and was open to all children between the ages of six and thirteen. The initiative to found the new organization was taken by the party leader Aidit. Cadres of the Communist Party and Pemuda Rakjat (the youth wing of the Communist Party) were given the task to study how pioneer movements functioned in other countries, but adapting \"Fadjar Harapan\" to Indonesian conditions.\n\nGerwani’s affiliation with the Communist Party of Indonesia (PKI) eventually led to their demise after the events of Gerakan 30 September, G30S and the “attempted” coup. The arrest and imprisonment of Gerwani members was justified by the fabricated involvement of Gerwani in the killings of the six Generals during G30S. The Lubang Buaya myth, as described as discussed by historians, claimed that Gerwani had performed sadistic, sexual crimes before and after killing the six Generals during G30S. More seriously, Lubang Buaya was used to justify the mass killings of communists in the period immediately after the G30S – an incident that also led to the demise of Gerwani.\n\nPeasants Front of Indonesia () was a peasant mass organization connected to the Communist Party of Indonesia (PKI). BTI was founded November 25, 1945. The previous peasant organization of PKI had been the Peasants Union (\"Serikat Tani\") formed in 1945.\n\nBharatiya Khet Mazdoor Union literally 'Indian Land Workers Union' is a trade union of agricultural labourers in India. BKMU is politically tied to the Communist Party of India (CPI). BKMU is independent from both the main trade union central of CPI, the All India Trade Union Congress, as well as the farmers' organisation of CPI, the All India Kisan Sabha.\n\nNational Federation of Indian Women is a women's organisation. It was established in 1954 by several leaders from Mahila Atma Raksha Samiti including Aruna Asaf Ali.\n\nThe Anti-Imperialist National Democratic Front is an underground South Korean organization that is called a socialist political party by North Korea and a pro-WPK spy group by South Korea. It is the only ostensibly South Korean organization to have a mission in Pyongyang. The party is banned in South Korea, under the National Security Law, but operates clandestinely. It is similar in organization to the Democratic Front for the Reunification of the Fatherland, the \"de jure\" popular front of North Korea. It has a mission in Pyongyang, North Korea and another in Japan.\n\nThe South Korean government petitioned the Constitutional Court of Korea to dissolve the UPP due to their alleged pro-North Korea views in November 2013, two months after the Unified Progressive Party members allegedly involved in the 2013 South Korean sabotage plot were arrested. On 19 December 2014 the Constitutional Court of Korea ruled 8-1 in favour of the dissolution. The five UPP lawmakers were also deprived of their National Assembly seats. According to Amnesty International, the UPP's ban raised \"serious questions as to the authorities' commitment to freedom of expression and association\".\n\nPoppino argued that the effectiveness of Communist propaganda in Latin America \"depends largely on the existence of a wide range of interlocking front groups that supplement and draw upon the Communist-led mass organizations.\"\n\nWhen nations turned toward the Soviet Union, they typically joined in numerous international front organizations, as Nicaragua did under the Sandinistas (Socialists) in 1983.\n\nMao Zedong broke bitterly with the Soviet Union in the late 1950s, accusing Nikita Khrushchev especially of revisionism and betrayal of true Marxist-Leninist dogma. Mao set up a network of pro-Chinese, anti-Soviet parties and Communist fronts that directly challenged the pro-Soviet organizations in parts of Asia, Africa, and Latin America. In Thailand, the pro-Chinese Communist fronts were organized with a violent revolutionary goal in mind, but they were based in local Chinese enclaves and failed to connect with the larger population.\n\nDespite deep ideological differences, the radical Islamists and the members of the PDPA both rejected Revolutionary Association of the Women of Afghanistan (RAWA) as a Maoist organization. One reason was that its founder Meena Keshwar Kamal married the Afghanistan Liberation Organization (ALO) leader Faiz Ahmad.\n\nPracheachon was a legal front organisation for the Communist Party of Kampuchea.\n\nWest Germany (and West Berlin) were centers of East-West conflict during the Cold War, and numerous Communist fronts were established. For example, the Society for German–Soviet Friendship (GfDSF) had 13,000 members in West Germany, but it was banned in 1953 by some Länder as a Communist front. The Democratic Cultural League of Germany started off as a series of genuinely pluralistic bodies, but in 1950–51 came under the control of Communists. By 1952 the U.S. Embassy counted 54 'infiltrated organizations', which started independently, as well as 155 'front organizations', which had been Communist inspired from their start.\n\nThe Association of the Victims of the Nazi Regime was set up to rally West Germans under the antifascist banner, but had to be dissolved when Moscow discovered it had been infiltrated by Zionist agents. In West Germany, the organisation was seen as taking its lead from the Communist Party of Germany (KPD) in the 1950s, and after 1968 of being controlled from the top by German Communist Party (DKP) members. The delegates of the Dusseldorf party congress of the SPD held in September 1948 an incompatibility resolution for the simultaneous membership in SPD and VVN. Reason: the VVN was \"infiltrated Communist\". The SPD leadership in the West around the former concentration camp prisoner Kurt Schumacher, a dedicated anti-communist, had already rejected the founding of the VVN and in May 1948 with an anti-communist press campaign of the SPD board member Fritz Heine declaring the numerous non-Communist VVN officials \"useful idiots\" of the KPD and the \"VVN-Nachrichten\" edited by Peter Lütsches (CDU) into a communist press organ.\n\nThe Deutsche Friedens-Union (DFU) the German Communist Party (DKP) was close and was also financed by the SED, which was however denied.\n\nThe Bund der Deutschen (BdD) was founded in 1953. Wirth and Elfes led the party, but there was also a strong influence of communist forces. The SED saw in the BdD a chance, similar to the concept of the National Front in the GDR, bourgeois and \"national-minded\" forces as a coalition partner to win. The core program of the BdD was a neutrality policy, which turned against the rearmament and the Westintegration of Germany. In contrast to the Federal Government, an agreement was reached with the Soviet Union. With the founding of the German Peace Union in 1961, in which numerous BdD politicians were involved, the BdD no longer existed as an independent political force, but was essentially limited to the publication of the German Volkszeitung. He also ran no longer in elections but sent candidates to the list of the DFU. Double memberships in BdD and DFU were expressly permitted. The constitutional protection of North Rhine-Westphalia, which observes the BdD, classified the BdD as a front-run cadre organization of the DFU in 1964. On 2 November 1968, the DKP, DFU, BdD and other left-wing groups decided to join the Joint Action Action for Democratic Progress (ADF) on the West German federal election, 1969. The membership stock, which Helmut Bausch had estimated to be around 12,000 for the years 1953 to 1955, according to a note to the Ulbricht office in 1965, have amounted to only 2,000 to 3,000.\n\nIn the peak of the Cold War in 1960, the chairman of the German wing of the Women's International League for Peace and Freedom (WILPF) referred to the \"Internationale Frauenliga für Frieden und Freiheit\" (IFFF) (and hundreds of other members of the IFFF), headed by the CDU politician Rainer Barzel together with Franz Josef Strauss (CSU) and headed by Barzel, as \"communist-controlled\". On the other hand, the IFFF successfully filed a complaint and Barzel had to withdraw his allegation. However, numerous women left the organization, only local groups remained in West Berlin, Hamburg, Bremen, Munich and Duisburg.\n\nThe Republikanische Club (RC) was put up, among others, by Hubertus Knabe in his book \"Die Unterhanderte Republik\", that the RC as a whole was influenced by the GDR or even controlled. Actually, however, the relationship between the RC and the GDR was rather disincentive, in particular one refused an approach to the SEW, the West Berlin offshoot of the SED. They and the GDR were seen as an obstacle to the new beginning of a left movement. Recent research on files from the BStU as well as from the estates of prominent members confirms that state security was active in West Berlin and also in the RC. It did not, however, aim at countervailing assumptions, but on a moderation of the extra-parliamentary opposition in order to be able to control them in the form of a party formation under the influence of SEW. This strategy failed, however, and the attempts to influence remained unaffected.\n\nThe Social Democratic Action (SDA), later Socialist Action, had been an opposition party in the Social Democratic Party of Germany (SPD), controlled by the SED since 1948. The work of the SDA started first in the SPD, which was authorized by the Occupying Council to build the walls throughout the city. The SDA was active both in the east and in the west of the city. In East Berlin, she temporarily appointed magistrates, mayors and other functionaries, and was even represented in the Volkskammer until 1954 with deputies. Since 1950, the organization also tried to gain a foothold in the Federal Republic of Germany, but remained a splinter group. Membership in it was declared incompatible with employment in the public service in 1950 by the Federal Government. In 1956, it was banned in the course of the KPD ban in the Federal Republic. After the erection of Berlin Wall in 1961 it also dissolved itself in the GDR.\n\nIn East Germany front operations were not directly controlled by Moscow. They were instead operated by The German Communist Party (DKP), which was in power after 1945. It took political and financial support from the SED and worked closely with the Socialist Unity Party of West Berlin (SEW), which was controllede and financed by the SED.\n\nOn suspicion of being close to the DKP, members of the German Peace Society were temporarily observed in the Federal Republic of Germany by the Federal Office for the Protection of the Constitution. Some of them were denied access to public service professions as a result of the radical decree of the early 1970s.\n\nFrom 10 November 1959 to 8 April 1960 were the pastor Johannes Oberhof, the former KPD official and former pastor Erwin Eckert, the interpreter Walter Diehl, the publisher Gerhard Wohlrath, the worker Gustav Tiefes, the insurance clerk Erich Kompalla and the former SPD Councilor Edith Hoereth-Menge accused by the Attorney General of their role in the Peace Committee of the Federal Republic of Germany the ringleadership in an anti-constitutional organization. This was justified in particular by the fact that some of the defendants had belonged to the now banned KPD. Their activities are therefore camouflage for the assumed by the Attorney General real goal of \"establishing a communist regime in the Federal Republic\".\n\nThe Democratic Union was accused by the ÖVP and VdU financed by the Soviet Union, while some SPÖ parliamentarians the DU referred to as \"Heimwehr fascists\".\n\nAt the Austrian legislative election, 1953, the DU entered into an electoral coalition called the \"People's Opposition\" with the KPÖ and the Socialist Workers' Party (SAP). In fact, this alliance was supported by the Soviet occupying forces, hoping to establish a national United front, with which Austria could be transformed into a socialist state. In this fantasy, the DU should replace the ÖVP in the medium term and the SAP the SPÖ. The KPÖ was also informed about these plans. In the occupation organs \"Österreichische Zeitung\" and \"Welt-Illustrierte\" a press campaign was operated for the people's opposition. Finally, the Alliance could gain in the election 5.28 percent of the vote and thus four mandates, a - measured by the support - for the Soviet Union disappointing result. Of the four mandates none went to Dobretsberger and the party lost more and more importance.\n\nThe United Democratic Left was founded the July 1951 by prominent center-left and leftist politicians, some of which were former members of ELAS. While initially \"EDA\" was meant to act as a substitute and political front of the banned Communist Party of Greece, it eventually acquired a voice of its own, rather pluralistic and moderate. This development was more clearly shown at the time of the 1968 split in the ranks of Communist Party of Greece, with almost all former members of \"EDA\" joining the faction with Euro-communist, moderate tendencies.\n\nThe Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) maintained talks with Abdullah Öcalan, from this talks Öcalan give a message to the congress stating that \"We have never considered our movement apart from Turkey's revolutionary and socialist movements. We have always regarded ourselves as an integral part of this outcome\" and \"we have to consider the HDP as an integral part of the historical democratic dialogue and negotiation process. If socialism and an open democracy succeed in Turkey, it will be closely related to this democratic negotiation process.\". Öcalan's niece Dilek Öcalan and Öcalan's nephew Öcalan Urfa'dan were among the HDP parliamentary candidates.\n\nThe relationship between the HDP and the PKK has been put forward by the governing Justice and Development Party (AKP) as a reason why it would be better for the HDP to not gain representation in Parliament, though government journalists alleged that this would result in greater violence by the PKK and attempts to establish a separate parliament in Diyarbakır. In election posters and propaganda, the HDP has been accused of scaremongering and using the PKK to coerce voters into voting for them, stating that there would be more violence if the HDP failed to pass the election threshold. In contrast, HDP politicians also accused the AKP of scaremongering when they claimed that their affiliation to the PKK made them unfit for parliamentary representation. PKK militants have also been accused of raiding local shops and cafes in the south-east of Turkey and demanding votes for the HDP, with one civilian being wounded when a group of PKK youth militants raided a cafe in Silvan. Selahattin Demirtaş has denied having an 'organic relationship' with the PKK and claimed that the allegations of PKK militants demanding votes for the HDP from voters was untrue.\n\nThe Association of United Ukrainian Canadians (AUUC) is a national cultural-educational non-profit organization established for Ukrainians in Canada. With branches throughout Canada it sponsors such cultural activities as dance groups, orchestras, choirs and children's activities within the Association. The organization was procommunist.\n\nThe Canadian Labour Defence League was a legal defence organization founded and led by Reverend A.E. Smith. The league was in 1925 as a civil rights organization dedicated to protecting striking workers from persecution. It was allied with the Communist Party of Canada and functioned as a front for the party. The group was the Canadian affiliate of International Red Aid.\n\nThe Dominion Communist–Labor Total War Committee was a front organization of the then-banned Communist Party of Canada.\n\nThe Federation of Russian Canadians is a left-leaning cultural organization for Russian immigrants to Canada and their descendants.\nIt is the successor of the Russian Farmer-Worker Clubs which were closed by the government at the beginning of World War II as a suspected subversive organization due to its links with the Communist Party of Canada. In 1942, after the Nazi invasion of the USSR, the organization reappeared as the Federation of Russian Canadians, known also by its Russian initials as the FRK.\n\nFinnish Organization of Canada (FOC, ) is a Finnish Canadian cultural organization. It was established in 1911 as the Finnish Socialist Organization of Canada (\"Kanadan Suomalainen Sosialistinen Järjestö\"). FOC is the oldest nationwide cultural organization for Finns in Canada. It was first connected with Social Democratic Party of Canada and later with Communist Party of Canada. Today FOC is no longer associated with politics. It has fewer than 200 members, who are mostly senior citizens in the areas of Toronto, Vancouver, Sudbury and Thunder Bay.\n\nThe Relief Camp Workers' Union (RCWU) was the union into which the inmates of the Canadian government relief camps were organized in the early 1930s. It was affiliated with the Workers' Unity League, the trade union umbrella of the Communist Party of Canada. The organization is best known for organizing the On-to-Ottawa Trek during the Great Depression.\n\nThe United Jewish People's Order is a secular socialist Jewish cultural, political and educational fraternal organization in Canada. The UJPO traces its history to 1926 and the founding of the Labour League. It was for many years associated with the Labor-Progressive Party, as the Communist Party of Canada was known.\n\nThe general secretary Albert Fava of the Gibraltar Confederation of Labour was deported by the Governor on the grounds of being a member of the Communist Party.\n\nDavidson argues that in Australia with the onset of the Great Depression, \"Support for Communist front organizations increased.\" Examples include the Movement Against War and Fascism and the Australian Writers' League.\n\nBritish intelligence infiltrated several Communist fronts in Australia, looking for organized efforts to block Britain's Cold War policies.\n\nThe Hollywood Anti-Nazi League was a communist front organization, run by the American popular front, it attracted broad support in Hollywood from both members and nonmembers of the Communist Party USA (CPUSA). Like many such communist front groups, it ceased all anti-Nazi activities immediately upon the signing of the Molotov–Ribbentrop Pact in August 1939.\n\nContemporary Historians Inc. was a 1937 active American film company, who financed a single film, The Spanish Earth by Joris Ivens, during their existence.\nJoris Ivens came from the Netherlands, alongside the \"Contemporary Historians\", the United States John Dos Passos, Archibald MacLeish, Clifford Odets, Lillian Hellman, Herman Shumlin and Ernest Hemingway, the latter largely independently, while all remaining in contact with the Communist Party USA or one of their communist front organizations. In 1931, during his time with Mezhrabpomfilm Otto Katz, Ivens had become acquainted with the Machtergreifung in Hollywood through his lectures Anti-fascist and the Comintern took a footing there.\n\nA report of the Special Committee on Un-American Activities of the United States House of Representatives published a four-pronged definition of a \"Communist front\" in March 1944. Frequently repeated in official government documents, this definition asserted that Communist fronts shared (1) a common origin; (2) organization upon a \"Communist pattern\"; (3) interlocking personnel; and (4) methods intended to deceive the public.\n\nHistorian Bernard K. Johnpoll states:\n\nThousands of Americans joined Communist fronts during the 1930s. Few of them realized the true nature of the organizations they joined. The fronts paraded as independent, nonpartisan groups under the facade of non-Communist control. They were actually satellites of the Communist Party whose primary aim was to create the impression of mass support for an essential part of the party line. To maintain the illusion of non- Communist control, the formal leadership of these organizations was almost invariably composed of non-party members; the actual control was, however, in the hands of party activists.\n\nIn the late 1940s, at the start of the Cold War, the House Committee on Un-American Activities (HUAC) and the Senate Internal Security Subcommittee (SISS) investigated and listed a number of suspected organizations. In 1955, SSIS published a list of what it described as the 82 most active and typical sponsors of Communist fronts in the United States; some of those named had literally dozens of affiliations with groups that had either been cited as Communist fronts or had been labelled \"subversive\" by either the Subcommittee or the House Committee on Un-American Activities.\n\nSchrecker says that anti-Communist leaders believed that the Party used front groups to attract \"fellow travelers,\" who were \"unsuspecting liberals and well-meaning dupes drawn into the Communist orbit without realizing that the Party was using them for its own purposes.\" Schrecker says that on the contrary, \"most of these people knowingly collaborated with the party, believing it to be the most effective ally they could find.\" Theodore Draper asks, \"To what extent was it possible, at least in the nineteen-twenties, to belong to a Communist front without being a Communist sympathizer?\" His answer is that, \"Only the most naive could have belonged to a front for any considerable length of time without realizing its political coloration. The top leaders of the early fronts were not merely Communists; they were top-ranking Communists.\"\n\nStarting in 1939, Attorney General Biddle began compiling a list of Fascist and Communist front organizations. It was called \"Attorney General's List of Subversive Organizations\" (AGLOSO), but was not at first made public. Political pressures from Congress forced President Harry S. Truman to act. Truman's Attorney General Tom C. Clark expanded the list, which was officially authorized by presidential Executive Order 9835 in 1947 and was administered by the new Loyalty Review Board. The Board became part of the Civil Service Commission. The list was used by federal agencies to screen appointments during the Truman Administration. The program investigated over 3 million government employees, of whom 300 were dismissed as security risks. Adverse decisions could be appealed to the Loyalty Review Board, a government agency set up by President Truman.\n\nOn March 20, 1948 the Loyalty Review Board published the previously secret Attorney General's \"List of Communist classified organizations\" in \"The Federal Register.\" This list included the name and date founded, as well as headquarters address and names of chief officers for active groups. The complete list included about 200 organizations.\n\nAttorney General's consolidated list November 1, 1955, includes also wartime German, Japanese, and Italian influenced organizations as well as white nationalist groups:\n\nLate in the Cold War, Richard Felix Staar alleged that Soviet intelligence had infiltrated many peace movements in the West, most importantly, the World Peace Council. In addition to WPC, important communist front organizations included its affiliate the U.S. Peace Council, the World Federation of Trade Unions, the World Federation of Democratic Youth, and the International Union of Students. Staar asserted that somewhat less important front organizations included: Afro-Asian People's Solidarity Organisation, Christian Peace Conference, International Association of Democratic Lawyers, International Federation of Resistance Movements, International Institute for Peace, International Organization of Journalists, Women's International Democratic Federation and World Federation of Scientific Workers. Numerous peace conferences, congresses and festivals have been staged with support of those organizations.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2819885", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2819885", "title": "Corsican Workers' Trade Union", "text": "Corsican Workers' Trade Union\n\nFounded in the mid-1980s, the Corsican Workers’ Trade Union (STC, Syndicat des Travailleurs Corses), an offshoot of the island's nationalist movement, quickly became the island's most popular organization for workers on the island. Besides agitating for the economic agenda one would expect of a labour union the STC has an agenda pushing for greater cultural from France.\n\nIn late February 2004, the STC declared a campaign on the state owned maritime transport firm National Corsican Mediterranean Company (Société Nationale Corse Méditerranée, SNCM). STC demanded that the company, which provides a great deal of the sea borne transport to and from the island, hire more Corsicans as well as raise their wages. An initial compromise was reached at the time, but a court struck it down on grounds of discrimination. \n\nSTC renewed their effort September 3 of that year, much to the chagrin of the financially destitute company. The strike was brought to a close September 19 with SCNM agreeing to, \"Rebalance the numbers of new crew members recruited in Corsica and in other regions, using equal competence criteria and within the normal parameters of the company’s recruitment\" in addition to 'island resident' bonuses for Corsican employees. It is likely SCNM was motivated to compromise by competition from Corsica Ferries, a Swiss company that, nevertheless, is headquartered in Bastia and has \"A management structure young Corsicans\". Although employing only 290 islanders, as opposed to SCNM's 816, Corsica Ferries has a paybill of 50 million euros and is a likely contributor to SCNM's 11% decline in profits from Corsican services between 1996 and 2003 (72% to 61%).\n\nThe agreement served to highlight the tensions between STC and the mainland General Confederation of Labour (Confédération générale du travail, CGT). SNCM ships were blockaded for four days as a protest against what mainland unions feel is a political agenda, namely Corsican nationalism that threatens French principles of non-discrimination. The French government, however, ruled the compromise, \"Does not infringe the principle of non-discrimination in employment\" and the Corsican CGT branch joined local business and political leaders in what they saw as an important step against the disparity in Corsican employees in a business receiving substantial subsidies from the Corsican regional authority.\n\nBy 2005 SCNM was in even worse financial condition. When plans for a Butler Capital Partners of the firm were announced sometimes violent STC protests erupted in Bastia (there were protests in Marseille as well, but these were not affiliated with STC but the CGT). Commandos were brought in to recapture the Pasquale Paoli, an SCNM ship hijacked in Marseille by 30 STC members, when it attempted to enter the Bastia port. An investigation into \"hijacking a ship\" was launched, if found guilty the ring leaders may be faced with 30 years in prison. More demonstrators attempted to seal the port and stop two ships from leaving. They clashed violently with riot police for four hours injuring a photographer before the ships were free to leave. \n\nContrary to the earlier disagreement with SCNM, the STC and the CGT were united in their condemnation of the privatization plans; \"The government bears the entire responsibility for the conflict... The workers are raising their heads and have decided to fight against the consequences of intensive liberalism\" read the joint statement released by France's main trade unions who were joined by the French Socialist Party in their condemnation of the military response to the strikes.\n\n"}
{"id": "1260606", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1260606", "title": "Democratic Party of Kosovo", "text": "Democratic Party of Kosovo\n\nThe Democratic Party of Kosovo (Albanian: \"Partia Demokratike e Kosovës\", \"PDK\") the third-largest political party in Kosovo. It was originally a social-democratic party coming out of demilitarized KLA after the war with most of the leadership being Albanian nationalists and former members of PMK, but during its congress in January 2013, it positioned itself as a center-right party. It is the main center-right party in Kosovo. The party shows strong socially conservative and economically liberal tendencies.\n\nIt is headed by Kadri Veseli, a leader of the former Kosovo Liberation Army and SHIK. The first post-war Prime Minister of Kosovo, Bajram Rexhepi, belongs to the Democratic Party of Kosovo.\n\nThe party was founded on May 14, 1999 from the political wing of the Kosovo Liberation Army as the Party for the Democratic Progress of Kosovo (\"Partia për Progres Demokratik e Kosovës\"), but was renamed on May 21, 2000. The party has increased in size and regional scope, initially \"winning governing\" spot in the elections of 2007 and winning most of the regional elections in the municipal elections of 2009. PDK renewed its governing mandate after winning the elections of 2010. Members of the Party for the Democratic Progress of Kosovo were blacklisted in 2001.\n\nIn the 2004 legislative elections, the party won 28.9% of the popular vote and 30 out of 120 seats in the Assembly of Kosovo; in 2007 PDK won a majority for the first time with 35% of the vote. In 2010's disputed elections, PDK won again with 32% of the vote.\n\nAfter 14 years of leadership of Hashim Thaçi who had to resign from party leadership to take the position of the President of the country, in May 2016, Parliament Speaker Kadri Veseli became party president by acclamation. He was elected with no votes against and no abstentions.\n\nParliamentary elections were held on 12 December 2010, the first such elections organized by Kosovans since their declaration of independence. After early results, Hashim Thaçi, who was on course to gain 32 per cent of the vote, claimed victory for PDK, the Democratic Party of Kosovo. He said he intended to continue governing for another 4 years. After accusations of vote-rigging, voting was repeated in several municipalities. With more than 30 per cent of the vote, Thaçi formed a coalition with the New Kosovo ALliance (AKR), led by the ex-president, Behgjet Pacolli. It was in fourth place with 8 percent of the vote.\n\nThe turnout at the election was significantly higher than usual, augmented by Serbs who decided to vote in the disputed republic. Following the confirmation of the final election results, PDK and AKR formed a government with a program dedicated to EU integrations. The new government included many of the younger generation of PDK members, such as Bedri Hamza, Memli Krasniqi, Vlora Citaku, Blerand Stavileci, Petrit Selimi, etc.\n\nKey figures in the underground Kosovo Intelligence Service close to PDK accused of executing political opponents in LDK, were current Speaker of Parliament, Kadri Veseli, and MPs Elmi Reçica, Fadil Demaku and former MPs Fatmir Xhelili and Latif Gashi. MPs Rrustem Mustafa and Latif Gashi resigned their offices in 2015 after receiving confirmed sentenced for war crimes. In April 2016, PDK MP Azem Syla was sought for arrest in connection to a large criminal group which appropriated socially owned property located in Prishtina’s suburbs amounting 30 million EUR.\n\nSeven out of 10 current mayors belonging to the PDK are suspected, have been charged or convicted of abuse of office and other criminal activity. Sami Lushtaku of Skenderaj has been sentenced to 12 years for war crimes while he is currently being investigated for a corruption case. He ran for mayoral reelections and is serving in office both from prison. Nexhat Demaku of Drenas has been sentenced to one year and is being investigated in another case. Salim Jenuzi of Dragash was charged but found not guilty. Bajram Mulaku of Vushtrria and Begzad Sinani of Kamenica were investigated but not charged. Sinani is again under investigation for alleged illegal hunting. Former Lipjan mayor Shukri Buja was sentenced to 4 months suspended imprisonment for not declaring property to the Anti-Corruption agency, while Vitia Mayor Nexhmedin Arifi to 18 months suspended imprisonment for misuse of official position. Xhabir Zharku of Kaçanik was convicted to three years in prison for threats related to a privatisation case and illegal possession of a firearm forcing him to resign his position but was allowed to escape to Sweden where he now lives. Ramadan Muja of Prizren was convicted by a court of first instance. The case has been returned to retrial meanwhile Muja has run for and won a second term as mayor. Former Ferizaj Mayor Bajrush Xhemajli started serving a two-year sentence in 2014 after being convicted for killing a person in a traffic accident in 2009. The prosecution also investigated the former mayor of Gjilan Qemal Mustafa for road tenders but did not file charges. Sokol Bashota of Klina was being investigated for abuse of office in 2016.\n\nIn 2000 the brother of PDK leader Hashim Thaçi Gani Thaçi was found during a raid in Prishtina with a million German marks (500,000 euros) in cash. The origin of the money was uncertain.\n\nFormer Interior Minister Bajram Rexhepi was in office when about 1.5 million euros were embezzled is a case related to the production of passports by an Austrian company. Later about 200,000 of them were discovered in a chauffeur of Kadri Veseli.\n\nAdem Grabovci, leader of PDK parliamentary group, was involved in the \"Pronto\" scandal, a leak of audio recordings of an EULEX investigation, in which Adem Grabovci, Hashim Thaçi and Vlora Çitaku discuss employment of an uncle of Grabovci, Curr Gjoci. Shortly afterwards, Gjoci was appointed Director of the University Clinical Centre in Prishtina. In another scandal Grabovci's sons beat several police officers. They were sentenced to a prison sentence of six months which converted to 3,000 EUR fine each.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11991282", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11991282", "title": "Department for Innovation, Universities and Skills", "text": "Department for Innovation, Universities and Skills\n\nThe Department for Innovation, Universities and Skills (DIUS) was a UK government department created on 28 June 2007 to take over some of the functions of the Department of Education and Skills and of the Department of Trade and Industry. Its head office was based at Kingsgate House, 66-74 Victoria Street, London SW1, which has now been demolished. In June 2009 it was merged into the newly formed Department for Business, Innovation and Skills. It was responsible for adult learning, some parts of further education, higher education, skills, science and innovation.\n\nDIUS also had responsibility for a number of Non-Departmental Public Bodies (NDPBs). These included the Research Councils:\n\n\nOther NDPBs sponsored by DIUS were:\n\n\nIn addition DIUS was the sponsor department for [NESTA] - the National Endowment for Science, Technology and the Arts ()\n\nOnly some of DIUS's functions were UK-wide: it oversaw the science budget, provided through the Research Councils, for the UK as a whole. On the other hand, education is a devolved matter and there were corresponding departments in the Northern Ireland Executive, Scottish Government and Welsh Assembly Government.\n\nThe only Secretary of State for Innovation, Universities and Skills was the Rt Hon John Denham MP.\n\nThe first Permanent Secretary, Ian Watmore, moved to a new appointment, leading to the appointment of Sir Jon Shortridge.\n\nThe Department's strategic objectives were to\n"}
{"id": "3277656", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3277656", "title": "Dicalcium phosphate", "text": "Dicalcium phosphate\n\nDicalcium phosphate is the calcium phosphate with the formula CaHPO and its dihydrate. The \"di\" prefix in the common name arises because the formation of the HPO anion involves the removal of two protons from phosphoric acid, HPO. It is also known as dibasic calcium phosphate or calcium monohydrogen phosphate. Dicalcium phosphate is used as a food additive, it is found in some toothpastes as a polishing agent and is a biomaterial.\n\nDibasic calcium phosphate is produced by the neutralization of calcium hydroxide with phosphoric acid, which precipitates the dihydrate as a solid. At 60 °C the anhydrous form is precipitated:\n\nTo prevent degradation that would form hydroxyapatite, sodium pyrophosphate or trimagnesium phosphate octahydrate are added when for example, dibasic calcium phosphate dihydrate is to be used as a polishing agent in toothpaste.\n\nIn a continuous process CaCl can be treated with (NH)HPO to form the dihydrate:\nA slurry of the dihydrate is then heated to around 65–70 °C to form anhydrous CaHPO as a crystalline precipitate, typically as flat diamondoid crystals, which are suitable for further processing.\n\nDibasic calcium phosphate dihydrate is formed in \"brushite\" calcium phosphate cements (CPC's), which have medical applications. An example of the overall setting reaction in the formation of \"β-TCP/MCPM\" (β-tricalcium phosphate/monocalcium phosphate) calcium phosphate cements is:\n\nThree (3) forms of dicalcium phosphate are known: \n\nThe structure of the anhydrous and dihydrated forms have been determined by X-ray crystallography. The dihydrate (shown in table above) adopts a layered structure.\nDibasic calcium phosphate is mainly used as a dietary supplement in prepared breakfast cereals, dog treats, enriched flour, and noodle products. It is also used as a tableting agent in some pharmaceutical preparations, including some products meant to eliminate body odor. Dibasic calcium phosphate is also found in some dietary calcium supplements (e.g. Bonexcin). It is used in poultry feed. It is also used in some toothpastes as a tartar control agent.\n\nHeating dicalcium phosphate gives dicalcium diphosphate, a useful polishing agent:\n\nIn the dihydrate (brushite) form it is found in some kidney stones and in dental calculi.\n\n"}
{"id": "30094661", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30094661", "title": "Dratshang Lhentshog", "text": "Dratshang Lhentshog\n\nThe Dratshang Lhentshog (Dzongkha: ; Wylie: \"grwa-tshang lhan-tshogs\") is the Commission for the Monastic Affairs of Bhutan. Under the 2008 Constitution, it is the bureaucracy that oversees the Drukpa Kagyu sect that is the state religion of Bhutan. Although Bhutan has a state religion, the role of the religious bureaucracy ideally complements secular institutions within a dual system of government.\n\nUnder the 2008 Constitution, the Dratshang Lhentshog is made up of seven members: the Je Khenpo as Chairman; the Five Lopons (Dzongkha: སློབ་དཔོན་ལྔ་; Wylie: \"slob-dpon lnga\") of the Zhung Dratshang (Dzongkha: གཞུང་གྲྭ་ཚང་; Wylie: \"gzhung grwa-tshang\"; \"Central Monastic Body\"); and a civil servant Secretary. Under the 2008 Constitution, it is mandated that the Zhung Dratshang and \"rabdeys\" (monastic bodies in dzongs other than Punakha and Thimphu) receive state funding and facilities adequate to support the Drukpa Kagyu sect.\n\nThe Five Lopons recommend a learned and respected monk ordained in accordance with the Druk-lu, having the nine qualities of a spiritual master, and being accomplished in \"ked-dzog\" (spiritual development and completion), to the King of Bhutan. The King then appoints that monk to the office of Je Khenpo. In turn, the Lopons are appointed on the same criteria by the Je Khenpo on the advice of the remaining members of the Dratshang Lhentshog.\n\nThe sitting Je Khenpo is the formal leader of the southern branch of the Drukpa Kagyu sect, which is part of the Kagyu tradition of Himalayan Buddhism. The primary duty of the Je Khenpo is to lead the Dratshang Lhentshog and to arbitrate on matters of doctrine, assisted by the Five Lopons. The Je Khenpo is also responsible for many important liturgical and religious duties across the country. Aside from the King of Bhutan, only the Je Khenpo may don a saffron kabney.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2449323", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2449323", "title": "Farm Labor Organizing Committee", "text": "Farm Labor Organizing Committee\n\nThe Farm Labor Organizing Committee (FLOC), AFL-CIO, is a labor union representing migrant farm workers in the Midwestern United States and North Carolina.\n\nFLOC was founded in Toledo, Ohio, in 1967 by Baldemar Velasquez. A migrant worker who had worked in the fields since he was six years old, Velasquez led his first strike at the age of 12. By the time he was 20 years old and a college student, Velasquez had already faced numerous beatings and arrests. But in 1967, with the help of his father and others, Velasquez organized FLOC among migrant field workers picking tomatoes in Ohio.\n\nFLOC's initial organizing strategy was to focus on workers, as most unions did. FLOC organizers followed migrant workers year-round, moving south to Texas and Florida every winter to build an organizing base. By 1977, however, FLOC had only 700 members.\n\nIn 1978, Velasquez decided to adopt a new organizing strategy. The union believed that Ohio tomato growers would be unable to recruit enough workers to see them through a long strike. So that year 2,000 FLOC members walked off their jobs in Ohio. While some growers were willing to negotiate, big canners such as the Campbell Soup Company were unwilling to pay the higher prices which would accompany a unionized workforce. FLOC initiated a boycott of Campbell's. Six years later, not much had changed even though FLOC had conducted a well-publicized 560-mile march from Toledo to Campbell Soup headquarters in Camden, New Jersey, in 1983. Even the support of the National Council of Churches and a group of Catholic bishops in Ohio failed to sway the company.\n\nIn 1984, FLOC asked labor organizer and consultant Ray Rogers for help. Rogers developed a corporate campaign strategy which included a resolution and well-publicized demonstration at a Campbell Soup shareholder meeting. \" 'You had these little nuns get up at stockholders' meetings saying I have one share and you're a dirty so and so,' says John Dunlop, secretary of labor in the Ford administration, who was involved in the FLOC battle.\" The company's public image began to suffer. FLOC then targeted three members of Campbell's board of directors for economic pressure. FLOC also picketed Philadelphia National Bank, one of Campbell's major creditors. Shortly thereafter, depositors threatened to pull $500,000 out of the bank.\nIn 1985, Campbell's agreed to establish a commission to implement an anti-poverty program among its workers. Chaired by Dunlop, the commission began acting as a labor relations board. In the fall of 1985, Campbell's officials agreed to negotiate with FLOC. In February 1986, FLOC, the growers and Campbell's announced a collective bargaining agreement which recognized FLOC as the workers' representative and provided for wage increases, grievance resolution, health insurance, and committees to study pesticide safety, housing, health care, and day care issues. Campbell's agreed to purchase a fixed portion of growers' crops, a guarantee that allowed growers to increase wages without fear that Campbell's would take its business elsewhere. Shortly thereafter, FLOC reached deals with Vlasic, Heinz, Green Bay Foods (now part of Dean Foods), Aunt Jane's (now part of Dean Foods) and Dean Foods. Within a year, FLOC had also signed pacts with 23 of the largest cucumber growers in Ohio and Michigan as well.\n\nFLOC continued to address issues related to its collective bargaining agreement in the late 1980s. Midwestern tomato farmers began complaining that the Campbell's Soup pact was not adequate. Campbell's purchased only a portion of their product, but the higher costs of wages and benefits affected their entire crop. Thus, Midwestern growers argued that they could no longer compete with cheap Mexican-grown products. Velasquez contacted Mexican farm worker unions, then in the midst of their own collective bargaining negotiations. Velasquez pressured the Mexican unions to demand significantly higher wages. The strategy was successful: The higher Mexican wages and benefits closed the price differential, and Midwestern growers no longer threatened to break their pact with FLOC.\n\nFLOC also fought back against subtle state-sponsored pressure. The union successfully sued the Ohio Highway Patrol (OHP) in September 1996 for stopping Hispanic migrant workers without justification and, in some cases, confiscating green cards. In December 1997, a federal district court judge issued a preliminary injunction restricting the OHP from questioning motorists about immigration status and seizing immigration documents.\n\nFLOC also began to expand its organizing efforts. The union sought to protect its gains in the cucumber fields by organizing migrant workers in the nation's second-largest cucumber-growing region—North Carolina.\n\nFLOC began organizing cucumber pickers and pickle processing workers in North Carolina in the early 1990s. The union's efforts had made little headway by the mid-1990s, however. In October 1998, FLOC announced a boycott of Mount Olive Pickle Company, the major pickle processor in the state. The union targeted the pickle processor because it correctly believed that growers would not agree to raise wages unless Mount Olive agreed to pay more for cucumbers. The organizing campaign was a difficult one. Four FLOC organizers were arrested on August 12, 1998 after visiting workers at a tobacco farm in Nash County, North Carolina. A local judge threw out the charges, saying the organizers had broken no laws.\n\nThe union's five-year boycott of Mount Olive Pickle was ultimately successful. A highlight of the organizing drive was a four-day, 70-mile march from Mount Olive, North Carolina, to Raleigh. On September 16, 2004, FLOC signed a collective bargaining agreement with Mount Olive and the growers. More than 6,000 of the state's 10,000 guest workers joined FLOC, boosting the union's membership to more than 23,000. The Association covered a number of cash crops, such as Christmas trees and tobacco, in addition to cucumbers.\n\nThe Mount Olive agreement marked the first time an American labor union represented guest workers. FLOC quickly established a program to bring guest workers into the United States under the H-2A temporary guest worker visa program.\n\nFLOC kept the pressure going in North Carolina even after the contract was ratified. In 2001, working with the United Farm Workers, FLOC had sued the United States Department of Labor for failing to force cucumber growers to raise wages for more than 30,000 guest workers. In 2005, the union won its lawsuit. Employers were forced to pay $1.4 million lawsuit to North Carolina workers who had deductions illegally taken from their pay.\n\nA federal district court judge ruled that growers belonging to the North Carolina Growers Association had to pay guest workers' visa and transportation fees. The ruling saved guest workers nearly $2 million a year.\n\nFLOC announced a second major organizing drive throughout the Deep South at its triennial convention in September 2006.\n\nOn April 10, 2007, FLOC organizer Santiago Rafael Cruz was found bound and beaten to death in the group's office in Monterrey, Mexico. FLOC had opened an office next to the U.S. consulate in the city in 2005 to help guest workers process their visas and to organize these incoming guest workers into the union. However, when Mexican police announced that a suspect had been arrested in Cruz's death, they stated \"he died for failing to deliver on a shady $4,500 promise to provide visas for the friends of his alleged killer\". The $4,500 was to arrange for documents for \"other people so they could go to the United States to work...\". The group's Monterrey offices had been broken into a several times in the past year, and union staff members had received a number of threats. Cruz, who was 29 years old, had supervised the Monterrey office for less than a month. The Nuevo León state police said Cruz's murder was not related to trafficking in illegal narcotics, but rather due to \"a fight between unions\" or \"an internal fight\" within FLOC. FLOC vigorously disputed the findings. FLOC officials claimed that organized crime figures had murdered Cruz in retaliation for FLOC's efforts to resolve grievances concerning abuses in the guest worker recruiting system (which FLOC says are dominated by criminal syndicates). FLOC petitioned the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights for protective measures. The Commission immediately granted the petition, which requires that the Mexican government provide FLOC members and staff with adequate law enforcement and security while in Mexico.\n\nTwo months after Cruz' death, the Mexican government agreed to require local police officers to sign in daily at FLOC's Monterrey office and agreed to install security cameras throughout the building where FLOC's offices are located. FLOC President Velasquez and Representative Marcy Kaptur (D-OH) met with officials from office of the Attorney General of Mexico to resolve problems with the implementation of the new security measures. Although the IACHR has been pressuring the Mexican government since early May to install the cameras, the Nuevo León and federal government disagree over who will pay for them. The police officer visits to the union offices also have been less frequent than promised.\n\nIn 2006, the North Carolina branch of FLOC began its new campaign against R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company. FLOC president Baldemar Velazquez spoke of the tragic and preventable deaths of at least four migrant tobacco workers in the summer of 2006 in North Carolina. The aim of the new campaign was to put pressure on Big Tobacco executives to change its abusive procurement system.\n\nTobacco corporations have control throughout the levels of tobacco procurement. Due to their monopoly, they control the prices they pay growers, and therefore the wages paid to field workers. There are deceptive layers of subcontractors throughout this system, designed to avoid responsibility for what happens down the chain. Nevertheless, tobacco corporations have the power to change this system and directly improve the lives of the workers who harvest their product.\n\nFLOC seeks to change the abusive structure of the procurement system through a multi-party agreement between the corporation, the growers and the farmworkers. Thus far, Reynolds CEO Susan Ivey has refused to meet with FLOC representatives. FLOC continues to put pressure on Reynolds to meet and attended a May 2008 shareholder meeting to raise the issue and to support a shareholder resolution calling for the company to establish a human rights protocol throughout its supply chain. The resolution had the support of the shareholder advisory service ISS and received a significant 13% of the vote.\n\nOn May 3, 2012, FLOC and several different organizations came together and disrupted a meeting of CEOs at R.J. Reynolds Headquarters, demanding that the crimes of the company against tobacco farmworkers be acknowledged and that certain action be taken to relieve the pain and suffering these workers are enduring in the tobacco fields. The short-term goal was in pressuring them to finally set up a meeting between R.J.R. and FLOC. Their goal was achieved. Soon after the meeting, FLOC and their allies flooded the streets of Winston-Salem, North Carolina, and held a long march to both celebrate their first victory and to continue the ongoing pressure against R.J.R.\n\nFLOC is governed by its membership. The membership elects delegates, who meet every four years (effective Convention 2009). FLOC held its first membership meeting—called a \"constitutional convention\"—in 1979. Members set dues, approve policy statements and broad programmatic guidance, and elect officers. Currently, FLOC members pay 2.5% of their base wages as dues.\n\nBetween conventions, FLOC is governed by a Board of Directors. The board includes the three officers—the international president, international vice president, and international secretary-treasurer—and four at-large board members. All board members are elected for four-year terms. At its 11th Constitutional Convention in 2009, delegates elected the following individuals as board members:\n\nBetween executive board meetings, FLOC's day-to-day operations are governed by the three officers, led by the president.\n\nFLOC has a number of programs which it has implemented to improve the lives of its members. Since 1971, FLOC has offered educational programs, established food and fuel cooperatives, and run legal clinics for both members and non-members.\n\nAfter it achieved its contract with Campbell's Soup, FLOC sought a charter from the AFL-CIO. The AFL-CIO initially chartered FLOC as a directly affiliated local union. However, in February 2006, FLOC changed its affiliation with the AFL-CIO and became a fully chartered international union.\n\nWhile FLOC has a good working relationship with the United Farm Workers (UFW), neither union has sought merger with the other. In 1993, FLOC president Velasquez expressed doubt that his members would approve a merger.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2885083", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2885083", "title": "Frank Holmes (geologist)", "text": "Frank Holmes (geologist)\n\nFrank Holmes (1874 – January 1947), known affectionately by Arabs as \"Abu Naft\" (\"the Father of Oil\"), was a British-New Zealander mining engineer, geologist and oil concession hunter. Following distinguished service in World War I, he was granted the title of honorary Major and was thereafter known as Major Frank Holmes in his civilian life.\n\nHe was born in 1874 on at a remote work camp in New Zealand where his father was building a bridge. He attended Otago Boys' High School, Dunedin in 1888–89. At the age of 17, he was apprenticed to his uncle who was the general manager of a gold mine in South Africa. For two decades, specialising in gold and tin, he worked as a mining engineer all over the world – Australia, China, Russia, Malaya, Mexico, Uruguay and Nigeria.\n\nDuring World War I, he was a quartermaster in the British Army. In his efforts to source food and supplies for the British Army in Mesopotamia (today's Iraq), Holmes travelled widely through the Middle East and may have heard rumours of a possible oil seepage on the eastern seaboard of the Arabian peninsula. This, together with a close study of Admiralty maps of the area, appears to have triggered an abiding interest in oil in the region. By 1918, he was writing to his wife that \"I personally believe that there will be developed an immense oil field running from Kuwait right down the mainland coast [of eastern Arabia]\".\n\nIn 1920, Holmes helped set up the Eastern and General Syndicate Ltd in London to develop, among other things, oil ventures in the Middle East. In 1922 he travelled to Arabia to discuss the possibility of an oil concession with Emir Ibn Saud, who ruled parts of the eastern peninsula. With Ibn Saud’s permission, he carried out a survey over four weeks in the desert and returned to Hofuf with earth samples which he claimed bore traces of oil. In order to allay the suspicions of British officials, Holmes claimed that he was looking for a rare butterfly, the Black Admiral of Qatif, although this deception appears not to have been effective. At the Uqair conference later in the year, Holmes approached Ibn Saud with a view to finalising a concession document but the British High Commissioner, Sir Percy Cox, persuaded Ibn Saud not to sign. It was only when the British government ended Ibn Saud’s annual stipend in 1923 that Ibn Saud considered himself free of British control and awarded a concession to Holmes for the region of al-Hasa. But when a subsequent survey was unfavourable, and a financially challenged Eastern and General Syndicate failed to find a bidder, the concession for al-Hasa was allowed to lapse. Holmes, nevertheless, still entertained hopes of finding oil on Bahrain and concentrated his efforts there.\n\nIn 1932 Holmes travelled to Jeddah, where negotiations for an oil concession were going between Ibn Saud, SOCAL and Iraq Petroleum Company (IPC) for a new concession for the al-Hasa province. When Ibn Saud’s adviser, the former British colonial officer Harry St. John Philby, got wind of his arrival he attempted to deter Holmes from joining the negotiations by informing him that he was \"persona non grata\" in Jeddah and was remembered for the failure to exploit the first al-Hasa concession. There was also the matter of £6,000 rent owed to Ibn Saud. Holmes appeared undaunted. “Holmes does not seem to share the otherwise universally held belief that Ibn Saud regards him unfavourably,” wrote the IPC representative, Stephen Hemsley Longrigg. In fact, Holmes probably had no intention of joining in but simply wanted to exclude the Neutral Zone between Saudi Arabia and Kuwait from the negotiations. After three days, during which time he met with Saudi finance minister Abdullah Suleiman, Holmes left Jeddah and took no part in the al-Hasa negotiations. The concession for al-Hasa (excluding the Neutral Zone) went to SOCAL. The company formed an operating company, the California Arabian Standard Oil Company (CASOC), joined forces with the Texas Oil Company and struck commercial oil at Dammam in March 1938. CASOC went on to become Aramco in 1944.\n\nIn 1923 he persuaded the sheikh of Bahrain to give him an oil concession in exchange for drilling water wells. Armed with a favourable geological report and rock samples, Holmes set out to interest a major oil company in drilling for oil in Bahrain. The Gulf Oil Company showed an interest but was constrained by the Red Line Agreement which prevented the company from drilling on Bahrain without the consent of their partners in the Iraq Petroleum Company (IPC). Their partners declined, so Gulf assigned its interest to Standard Oil of California (SOCAL) for $50,000. SOCAL went on to strike oil in June 1932.\n\nIn 1925, reports came into the Anglo-Persian Oil Company that Holmes was showing an interest in Qatar. Holmes had visited the ruler Sheikh Abdullah in his desert tent. When the sheikh’s hunting dogs entered the tent and Holmes was able to identify the pedigree of one, the sheikh was most impressed. “If this man can identify one dog among so many, surely he can identify where our oil is hidden,” he said, declaring that Holmes was his choice for the Qatar oil concession. Holmes also presented the sheikh with a motor car. This prompted Anglo-Persian to send a survey party led by George Martin Lees to Qatar. There were no firm indications of oil, but when oil was struck on Bahrain, this and a favourable survey persuaded Anglo Persian to sign a concession agreement with the sheikh in 1935. Holmes, in the meantime, had found his energies taken up with oil negotiations in Kuwait.\n\nKuwait lay outside the Red Line Agreement, so Gulf Oil was free to negotiate for an oil concession there, represented by Frank Holmes. When representatives of their rivals, Anglo-Persian, first attempted to negotiate with the Emir of Kuwait, Sheikh Ahmad al-Jaber al-Sabah, they found that Holmes was well enconsced with the Sheikh with the result that the company appointed William Richard Williamson to counter Holmes' influence. Eventually, Anglo-Persian decided to join forces with Holmes, and together they created a 50–50 venture, the Kuwait Oil Company. On 23 December 1934 Sheikh Ahmad signed an oil concession (covering the entire 15,800 square km of Kuwait for 75 years) to this new company and appointed Major Holmes as his representative in London. Oil was struck in Kuwait in February 1938.\n\nIn 1937 Holmes was instructed by Petroleum Concessions Ltd – an associate company of IPC – to complete oil concession agreements with the sheikhs of the Trucial Coast and the ruler of Oman but he proved dilatory and had to be relieved through ill-health. “I am sure that if Holmes comes to the Gulf there will be the usual atmosphere of confusion and intrigue which he creates wherever he goes and which sooner or later gives us much unnecessary trouble,” wrote the British Political Resident from Bahrain, reflecting a widespread suspicion among British officials that Holmes was a threat to their country's interests in the Persian Gulf. To another official, he was simply \"a rover in the world of oil\".\n\nDescribed as being “of powerful physique, of blunt speech and great strength of character” Holmes possessed qualities of charm and generosity that won him the admiration of Arabs across the region, and he was able to invoke dreams of wealth among the many improverished shiekhs of the Arabian peninsula. Although not a trained petroleum geologist, he relied on a knowledge of geology gained as a mining engineer and a certain intuition (what Holmes described as his “nose for oil”) to locate areas where oil might be found. In the event, at a time when established opinion was generally pessimistic about finding oil in Arabia, Holmes’ predictions were remarkably accurate. It is for these reasons that he earned from Arabs the sobriquet “Abu Naft”, or the Father of Oil.\n\nAfter a short illness, Frank Holmes died of a heart attack in January 1947.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6951166", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6951166", "title": "George Soros", "text": "George Soros\n\nGeorge Soros, (born György Schwartz; August 12, 1930) is a Hungarian-American investor and philanthropist. , he had a net worth of $8 billion, after donating $18 billion to his philanthropic agency, Open Society Foundations.\n\nBorn in Budapest, Soros survived Nazi Germany-occupied Hungary and immigrated to England in 1947 after Hungary was occupied by Soviet troops. He attended the London School of Economics, graduating with a bachelor's and eventually a master's degree in philosophy. Soros began his business career by taking various jobs at merchant banks in England and then the United States, before starting his first hedge fund, Double Eagle, in 1969. Profits from his first fund furnished the seed money to start Soros Fund Management, his second hedge fund, in 1970. Double Eagle was renamed to Quantum Fund and was the principal firm Soros advised. At its founding, Quantum Fund had $12 million in assets under management, and it had $25 billion, the majority of Soros's overall net worth.\n\nSoros is known as \"The Man Who Broke the Bank of England\" because of his short sale of worth of pounds sterling, which made him a profit of $1 billion during the 1992 Black Wednesday UK currency crisis. Based on his early studies of philosophy, Soros formulated an application of Karl Popper's General Theory of Reflexivity to capital markets, which he claims renders him a clear picture of asset bubbles and fundamental/market value of securities, as well as value discrepancies used for shorting and swapping stocks.\n\nSoros is a well-known supporter of progressive and liberal political causes, to which he dispenses donations through his foundation, the Open Society Foundations. Between 1979 and 2011, he donated more than $11 billion to various philanthropic causes; by 2017, his donations \"on civil initiatives to reduce poverty and increase transparency, and on scholarships and universities around the world\" totaled $12 billion. He influenced the collapse of communism in Eastern Europe in the late 1980s and early 1990s, and provided one of Europe's largest higher education endowments to the Central European University in his Hungarian hometown. His extensive funding of political causes has made him a \"bugaboo of European nationalists\". Numerous American conservatives have promoted false claims that characterize Soros as a singularly dangerous \"puppetmaster\" behind a variety of alleged global plots, with \"The New York Times\" reporting that by 2018 these claims had \"moved from the fringes to the mainstream\" of Republican politics.\n\nSoros was born in Budapest in the Kingdom of Hungary to a well-to-do non-observant Jewish family, who, like many upper-middle class Hungarian Jews at the time, were uncomfortable with their roots. Soros has wryly described his home as a Jewish antisemitic home. His mother Erzsébet (also known as Elizabeth) came from a family that owned a thriving silk shop. His father Tivadar (also known as Teodoro) was a lawyer and had been a prisoner of war during and after World War I until he escaped from Russia and rejoined his family in Budapest. The two married in 1924. Tivadar was an Esperantist writer. In 1936, Soros's family changed their name from the German-Jewish Schwartz to Soros, as protective camouflage in increasingly antisemitic Hungary. Tivadar liked the new name because it is a palindrome and because of its meaning. In Hungarian, \"soros\" means \"next in line,\" or \"designated successor\"; in Esperanto it means \"will soar.\"\n\nSoros was 13 years old in March 1944 when Nazi Germany occupied Hungary. The Nazis barred Jewish children from attending school, and Soros and the other schoolchildren were made to report to the Judenrat (\"Jewish Council\"), which had been established during the occupation. Soros later described this time to writer Michael Lewis: \"The Jewish Council asked the little kids to hand out the deportation notices. I was told to go to the Jewish Council. And there I was given these small slips of paper ... I took this piece of paper to my father. He instantly recognized it. This was a list of Hungarian Jewish lawyers. He said, 'You deliver the slips of paper and tell the people that if they report they will be deported'.\"\n\nSoros did not return to that job; his family survived the war by purchasing documents to say that they were Christians. Later that year at age 14, Soros posed as the Christian godson of an official of the collaborationist Hungarian government's Ministry of Agriculture, who himself had a Jewish wife in hiding. On one occasion, rather than leave the 14-year-old alone, the official took Soros with him while inventorizing a Jewish family's confiscated estate. Tivadar saved not only his immediate family but also many other Hungarian Jews, and George would later write that 1944 had been \"the happiest [year] of his life,\" for it had given him the opportunity to witness his father's heroism. In 1945, Soros survived the Siege of Budapest, in which Soviet and German forces fought house-to-house through the city.\n\nIn 1947, Soros immigrated to England and became a student at the London School of Economics. While a student of the philosopher Karl Popper, Soros worked as a railway porter and as a waiter, and once received £40 from a Quaker charity. Soros would sometimes stand at Speakers' Corner lecturing about the virtues of internationalism in Esperanto, which he had learned from his father.\n\nSoros took a Bachelor of Science in philosophy in 1951, and a Master of Science in philosophy in 1954, both from the London School of Economics.\n\nIn a discussion at the Los Angeles World Affairs Council in 2006, Alvin Shuster, former foreign editor of the \"Los Angeles Times\", asked Soros, \"How does one go from an immigrant to a financier? ... When did you realize that you knew how to make money?\" Soros replied, \"Well, I had a variety of jobs and I ended up selling fancy goods on the seaside, souvenir shops, and I thought, that's really not what I was cut out to do. So, I wrote to every managing director in every merchant bank in London, got just one or two replies, and eventually that's how I got a job in a merchant bank.\"\n\nIn 1954, Soros began his financial career at the merchant bank Singer & Friedlander of London. He worked as a clerk and later moved to the arbitrage department. A fellow employee, Robert Mayer, suggested he apply at his father's brokerage house, F.M. Mayer of New York.\n\nIn 1956, Soros moved to New York City, where he worked as an arbitrage trader for F. M. Mayer (1956–59). He specialized in European stocks, which were becoming popular with U.S. institutional investors following the formation of the Coal and Steel Community, which later became the Common Market.\n\nIn 1959, after three years at F. M. Mayer, Soros moved to Wertheim & Co.. He planned to stay for five years, enough time to save $500,000, after which he intended to return to England to study philosophy. He worked as an analyst of European securities until 1963.\n\nDuring this period, Soros developed the theory of reflexivity based on the ideas of his tutor at the London School of Economics, Karl Popper. Reflexivity posits that market values are often driven by the fallible ideas of participants, not only by the economic fundamentals of the situation. Ideas and events influence each other in reflexive feedback loops. Soros argued that this process leads to markets having procyclical \"virtuous\" or \"vicious\" cycles of boom and bust, in contrast to the equilibrium predictions of more standard neoclassical economics.\n\nFrom 1963 to 1973, Soros's experience as a vice president at Arnhold and S. Bleichroeder resulted in little enthusiasm for the job; business was slack following the introduction of the Interest Equalization Tax, which undermined the viability of Soros's European trading. He spent the years from 1963 to 1966 with his main focus on the revision of his philosophy dissertation. In 1966 he started a fund with $100,000 of the firm's money to experiment with his trading strategies. But he was principally motivated by a desire to assert himself as an investor to profit from his reflexivity insights.\n\nIn 1969, Soros set up the Double Eagle hedge fund with $4m of investors' capital including $250,000 of his own money. It was based in Curaçao, Dutch Antilles. Double Eagle itself was an offshoot of Arnhold and S. Bleichroeder's First Eagle fund established by Soros and that firm's chairman Henry H. Arnhold in 1967.\nIn 1973, the Double Eagle Fund had $12 million and formed the basis of the Soros Fund. George Soros and Jim Rogers received returns on their share of capital and 20 percent of the profits each year.\n\nIn 1970, Soros founded Soros Fund Management and became its chairman. Among those who held senior positions there at various times were Jim Rogers, Stanley Druckenmiller, Mark Schwartz, Keith Anderson, and Soros's two sons.\n\nIn 1973, due to perceived conflicts of interest limiting his ability to run the two funds, Soros resigned from the management of the Double Eagle Fund. He then established the Soros Fund and gave investors in the Double Eagle Fund the option of transferring to that or staying with Arnhold and S. Bleichroeder.\n\nIt was later renamed as the Quantum Fund, named after the physical theory of quantum mechanics. By that time the value of the fund had grown to $12m, only a small proportion of which was Soros's own money. He and Jim Rogers reinvested their returns from the fund, and also a large part of their 20% performance fees, thereby expanding their stake.\n\nBy 1981, the fund had grown to $400m, and then a 22% loss in that year and substantial redemptions by some of the investors reduced it to $200m.\n\nIn July 2011, Soros announced that he had returned funds from outside investors' money (valued at $1 billion) and instead invested funds from his $24.5 billion family fortune, due to changes in U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission disclosure rules, which he felt would compromise his duties of confidentiality to his investors. The fund had at that time averaged over 20% per year compound returns.\n\nIn 2013, the Quantum Fund made $5.5 billion, making it again the most successful hedge fund in history. Since its inception in 1973, the fund has generated $40 billion.\n\nThe fund announced in 2015 that it would inject $300 million to help finance the expansion of Fen Hotels, an Argentine hotel company. The funds will develop 5,000 rooms over the next three years throughout various Latin American countries.\n\nSoros had been building a huge short position in pounds sterling for months leading up to September 1992. Soros had recognized the unfavorable position of the United Kingdom in the European Exchange Rate Mechanism. For Soros, the rate at which the United Kingdom was brought into the European Exchange Rate Mechanism was too high, their inflation was also much too high (triple the German rate), and British interest rates were hurting their asset prices.\n\nBy September 16, 1992, the day of Black Wednesday, Soros's fund had sold short more than $10 billion in pounds, profiting from the UK government's reluctance to either raise its interest rates to levels comparable to those of other European Exchange Rate Mechanism countries or float its currency.\n\nFinally, the UK withdrew from the European Exchange Rate Mechanism, devaluing the pound. Soros's profit on the bet was estimated at over $1 billion. He was dubbed \"the man who broke the Bank of England\". The estimated cost of Black Wednesday to the UK Treasury was £3.4 billion.\n\nOn October 26, 1992, \"The New York Times\" quoted Soros as saying: \"Our total position by Black Wednesday had to be worth almost $10 billion. We planned to sell more than that. In fact, when Norman Lamont said just before the devaluation that he would borrow nearly $15 billion to defend sterling, we were amused because that was about how much we wanted to sell.\"\n\nStanley Druckenmiller, who traded under Soros, originally saw the weakness in the pound and stated: \"[Soros's] contribution was pushing him to take a gigantic position.\"\n\nIn 1997, during the Asian financial crisis, the prime minister of Malaysia, Mahathir bin Mohamad, accused Soros of using the wealth under his control to punish the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) for welcoming Myanmar as a member. Following on a history of antisemitic remarks, Mahathir made specific reference to Soros's Jewish background (\"It is a Jew who triggered the currency plunge\") and implied Soros was orchestrating the crash as part of a larger Jewish conspiracy. Nine years later, in 2006, Mahathir met with Soros and afterward stated that he accepted that Soros had not been responsible for the crisis. In 1998's \"The Crisis of Global Capitalism: Open Society Endangered\" Soros explained his role in the crisis as follows:\n\nThe financial crisis that originated in Thailand in 1997 was particularly unnerving because of its scope and severity ... By the beginning of 1997, it was clear to Soros Fund Management that the discrepancy between the trade account and the capital account was becoming untenable. We sold short the Thai baht and the Malaysian ringgit early in 1997 with maturities ranging from six months to a year. (That is, we entered into contracts to deliver at future dates Thai baht and Malaysian ringgit that we did not currently hold.) Subsequently, Prime Minister Mahathir of Malaysia accused me of causing the crisis, a wholly unfounded accusation. We were not sellers of the currency during or several months before the crisis; on the contrary, we were buyers when the currencies began to decline—we were purchasing ringgits to realize the profits on our earlier speculation. (Much too soon, as it turned out. We left most of the potential gain on the table because we were afraid that Mahathir would impose capital controls. He did so, but much later.)\n\nIn 1999, economist Paul Krugman was critical of Soros's effect on financial markets.\n\n[N]obody who has read a business magazine in the last few years can be unaware that these days there really are investors who not only move money in anticipation of a currency crisis, but actually do their best to trigger that crisis for fun and profit. These new actors on the scene do not yet have a standard name; my proposed term is 'Soroi'.\n\nIn an interview regarding the late-2000s recession, Soros referred to it as the most serious crisis since the 1930s. According to Soros, market fundamentalism with its assumption that markets will correct themselves with no need for government intervention in financial affairs has been \"some kind of an ideological excess.\" In Soros's view, the markets' moods—a \"mood\" of the markets being a prevailing bias or optimism/pessimism with which the markets look at reality—\"actually can reinforce themselves so that there are these initially self-reinforcing but eventually unsustainable and self-defeating boom/bust sequences or bubbles.\"\n\nIn reaction to the late-2000s recession, he founded the Institute for New Economic Thinking in October 2009. This is a think tank composed of international economic, business, and financial experts, who are mandated to investigate radical new approaches to organizing the international economic and financial system.\n\nIn 1988, Soros was contacted by a French financier named Georges Pébereau, who asked him to participate in an effort to assemble a group of investors to purchase a large number of shares in Société Générale, a leading French bank that was part of a privatization program (something instituted by the new government under Jacques Chirac). Soros eventually decided against participating in the group effort, opting to personally move forward with his strategy of accumulating shares in four French companies: Société Générale, as well as Suez, Paribas, and the Compagnie Générale d'Électricité.\n\nIn 1989, the Commission des Opérations de Bourse (COB, the French stock exchange regulatory authority) conducted an investigation of whether Soros's transaction in Société Générale should be considered insider trading. Soros had received no information from the Société Générale and had no insider knowledge of the business, but he did possess knowledge that a group of investors was planning a takeover attempt. Initial investigations found Soros innocent, and no charges were brought forward. However, the case was reopened a few years later, and the French Supreme Court confirmed the conviction on June 14, 2006, although it reduced the penalty to €940,000.\n\nSoros denied any wrongdoing, saying news of the takeover was public knowledge and it was documented that his intent to acquire shares of the company predated his own awareness of the takeover. In December 2006, he appealed to the European Court of Human Rights on various grounds, including that the 14-year delay in bringing the case to trial precluded a fair hearing. On the basis of Article 7 of the European Convention on Human Rights, stating that no person may be punished for an act that was not a criminal offense at the time that it was committed, the court agreed to hear the appeal. In October 2011, the court rejected his appeal in a 4–3 decision, saying that Soros had been aware of the risk of breaking insider trading laws.\n\nSoros has been married three times and divorced twice. In 1960, he married Annaliese Witschak (born January 3, 1934). Annaliese was an ethnic German immigrant, who had been orphaned during the war. Although she was not Jewish, she was well-liked by Soros's parents as she had also experienced the privation and displacement brought about by World War II. They divorced in 1983. They had three children:\n\nIn 1983, George Soros married Susan Weber (born April 15, 1955), 25 years his junior. They divorced in 2005. They have two children:\n\nIn 2008, Soros met his current wife, Tamiko M. Bolton, who was born October 18, 1971 and is 42 years his junior; he married her on September 21, 2013. Bolton is the daughter of a Japanese-American nurse and a retired naval commander, Robert J. Bolton (born October 18, 1946). She was raised in California, earned an MBA from the University of Miami, and runs an Internet-based dietary supplement and vitamin-sales company.\n\nSoros's older brother Paul Soros, a private investor and philanthropist, died on June 15, 2013. Also an engineer, Paul headed Soros Associates and established the Paul and Daisy Soros Fellowships for Young Americans. He was married to Daisy Soros (née Schlenger), who, like her husband, was a Hungarian Jewish immigrant, and with whom he had two sons, Peter and Jeffrey. Peter Soros was married to the former Flora Fraser, a daughter of Lady Antonia Fraser and the late Sir Hugh Fraser and a stepdaughter of the late 2005 Nobel Laureate Harold Pinter. Fraser and Soros separated in 2009.\n\nIn 2005, Soros was a minority partner in a group that tried to buy the Washington Nationals, a Major League baseball team. Some Republican lawmakers suggested that they might move to revoke Major League Baseball's antitrust exemption if Soros bought the team. In 2008, Soros's name was associated with AS Roma, an Italian association football team, but the club was not sold. Soros was a financial backer of Washington Soccer L.P., the group that owned the operating rights to Major League Soccer club D.C. United when the league was founded in 1995, but the group lost these rights in 2000. On August 21, 2012, BBC reported SEC filings showing Soros acquired roughly a 1.9 percent stake in English football club Manchester United through the purchase of 3.1 million of the club's Class-A shares.\n\nSoros was not a large donor to U.S. political causes until the 2004 presidential election, but according to the Center for Responsive Politics, during the 2003–2004 election cycle, Soros donated $23,581,000 to various 527 Groups (tax-exempt groups under the United States tax code, 26 U.S.C. § 527). The groups aimed to defeat President George W. Bush. After Bush's reelection, Soros and other donors backed a new political fundraising group called Democracy Alliance, which supports progressive causes and the formation of a stronger progressive infrastructure in America.\n\nIn August 2009, Soros donated $35 million to the state of New York to be earmarked for underprivileged children and given to parents who had benefit cards at the rate of $200 per child aged 3 through 17, with no limit as to the number of children that qualified. An additional $140 million was put into the fund by the state of New York from money they had received from the 2009 federal recovery act.\n\nSoros was an initial donor to the Center for American Progress, and he continues to support the organization through the Open Society Foundations.\n\nIn October 2011, a Reuters story, \"Soros: Not a funder of Wall Street Protests,\" was published after several commentators pointed out errors in an earlier Reuters story headlined \"Who's Behind the Wall St. Protests?\" with a lede stating that the Occupy Wall Street movement \"may have benefited indirectly from the largesse of one of the world's richest men [Soros].\" Reuters's follow-up article also reported a Soros spokesman and Adbusters' co-founder Kalle Lasn both saying that Adbusters—the reputed catalyst for the first Occupy Wall Street protests—had never received any contributions from Soros, contrary to Reuters's earlier story that reported that \"indirect financial links\" existed between the two as late as 2010.\n\nOn September 27, 2012, Soros announced that he was donating $1 million to the super PAC backing President Barack Obama's reelection Priorities USA Action.\n\nIn October 2013, Soros donated $25,000 to Ready for Hillary, becoming a co-chairman of the super PAC's national finance committee. In June 2015, he donated $1 million to the Super PAC Priorities USA Action, which supported Hillary Clinton in the 2016 presidential race. He donated $6 million to the PAC in December 2015 and $2.5 million in August 2016.\n\nAccording to Waldemar A. Nielsen, an authority on American philanthropy, \"[Soros] has undertaken ... nothing less than to open up the once-closed communist societies of Eastern Europe to a free flow of ideas and scientific knowledge from the outside world.\" From 1979, as an advocate of 'open societies', Soros financially supported dissidents including Poland's Solidarity movement, Charter 77 in Czechoslovakia and Andrei Sakharov in the Soviet Union. In 1984, he founded his first Open Society Institute in Hungary with a budget of $3 million.\n\nSince the fall of the Soviet Union, Soros' funding has continued to play an important role in the former Soviet sphere. His funding of pro-democratic programs in Georgia was considered by Georgian nationalists to be crucial to the success of the Rose Revolution, although Soros has said that his role has been \"greatly exaggerated.\" Alexander Lomaia, Secretary of the Georgian Security Council and former Minister of Education and Science, is a former Executive Director of the Open Society Georgia Foundation (Soros Foundation), overseeing a staff of 50 and a budget of $2.5 million.\n\nFormer Georgian foreign minister Salomé Zourabichvili wrote that institutions like the Soros Foundation were the cradle of democratization and that all the NGOs that gravitated around the Soros Foundation undeniably carried the revolution. She opines that after the revolution the Soros Foundation and the NGOs were integrated into power.\n\nSome Soros-backed pro-democracy initiatives have been banned in Kazakhstan and Turkmenistan. Ercis Kurtulus, head of the Social Transparency Movement Association (TSHD) in Turkey, said in an interview that \"Soros carried out his will in Ukraine and Georgia by using these NGOs ... Last year Russia passed a special law prohibiting NGOs from taking money from foreigners. I think this should be banned in Turkey as well.\" In 1997, Soros closed his foundation in Belarus after it was fined $3 million by the government for \"tax and currency violations.\" According to \"The New York Times\", the Belarusian president Alexander Lukashenko has been widely criticized in the West and in Russia for his efforts to control the Belarus Soros Foundation and other independent NGOs and to suppress civil and human rights. Soros called the fines part of a campaign to \"destroy independent society.\"\n\nIn June 2009, Soros donated $100 million to Central Europe and Eastern Europe to counter the impact of the economic crisis on the poor, voluntary groups and non-government organisations.\n\nSince 2012 the Hungarian Fidesz government gradually and strategically selected George Soros as enemy of the state for various reasons, with the focus on the deliberate misinterpretation of his humanitarian and political involvement in the European refugee crisis. The government has attacked OSF, the international civil support foundation created by George Soros, including various legal changes to revoke the permission of Central European University (Budapest) (which failed mostly due to significant public outrage). In response Soros called the government \"a mafia state\".\n\nAs the 2018 election period started the government introduced public posters with the photo of Soros, to create hostility in the general public towards him, using statements such as \"Soros wants millions of migrants to live in Hungary\", and \"Soros wants to dismantle the border fence\". The government also prepared a three-part law plan called \"Stop Soros package\" (which followed other various law changes in the same year which hindered workings of several international NGOs in Hungary), which would include various steps against NGOs doing volunteer work related to the refugee crisis. Soros left most of these attacks without comments apart from a few short statements about the invalidity of the accusations.\nIn March 2017, six US senators sent a letter to their Secretary of State Rex Tillerson asking that he look into several grants the State Department and the US Agency for International Development (USAID) have given to groups funded by \"left-wing\" Soros. According to the Heritage Foundation, the letter expressed specific concern about Soros' influence on Macedonian politics, a concern which has also been expressed by members of the conservative Macedonian government. In the same context, Judicial Watch has filed a Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) lawsuit against the U.S. Department of State and USAID compelling them to release records regarding $5 million transferred from USAID to Soros' Open Society branch in Macedonia. The suit alleges that the money was deliberately used to destabilize the Macedonian government.\n\nIn January 2017, the \"Stop Operation Soros\" (SOS) initiative was launched in Macedonia. SOS seeks to present \"questions and answers about the way Soros operates worldwide\" and invites citizens to contribute to the research. In a press conference held during the same month, Nenad Mircevski, one of the founders of the initiative, stated that SOS would work towards the \"de-Soros-ization\" of Macedonia.\n\nOn May 16, 2018, Soros' Open Society Foundations announced they will move its office from Budapest to Berlin, blaming the move on an \"increasingly repressive\" environment in Hungary.\n\nThe Open Society Initiative for Southern Africa is a Soros-affiliated organization. Its director for Zimbabwe is Godfrey Kanyenze, who also directs the Zimbabwe Congress of Trade Unions (ZCTU), which was the main force behind the founding of the Movement for Democratic Change, the principal indigenous organization promoting regime change in Zimbabwe. \n\nIn November 2005, Soros said: \"My personal opinion is there's no alternative but to give Kosovo independence.\" Soros has helped fund the non-profit group called Independent Diplomat. It represented Kosovo, the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus (under military occupation by Turkey since 1974), Somaliland and the Polisario Front of Western Sahara.\n\nSoros has funded worldwide efforts to promote drug policy reform. In 2008, Soros donated $400,000 to help fund a successful ballot measure in Massachusetts known as the Massachusetts Sensible Marijuana Policy Initiative which decriminalized possession of less than 1 oz (28g) of marijuana in the state. Soros has also funded similar measures in California, Alaska, Oregon, Washington, Colorado, Nevada and Maine. Among the drug decriminalization groups that have received funding from Soros are the Lindesmith Center and Drug Policy Foundation. Soros donated $1.4 million to publicity efforts to support California's Proposition 5 in 2008, a failed ballot measure that would have expanded drug rehabilitation programs as alternatives to prison for persons convicted of non-violent drug-related offenses.\n\nIn October 2010, Soros donated $1 million to support California's Proposition 19.\n\nAccording to remarks in an interview in October 2009, it is Soros' opinion that marijuana is less addictive but not appropriate for use by children and students. He himself has not used marijuana for years. Soros has been a major financier of the Drug Policy Alliance – an organization that promotes cannabis legalization – with roughly $4 million in annual contributions from one of his foundations.\n\nThe Project on Death in America, active from 1994 to 2003, was one of the Open Society Institute's projects, which sought to \"understand and transform the culture and experience of dying and bereavement.\" In 1994, Soros delivered a speech in which he reported that he had offered to help his mother, a member of the right-to-die advocacy organization Hemlock Society, commit suicide. In the same speech, he also endorsed the Oregon Death with Dignity Act, proceeding to help fund its advertising campaign.\n\nSoros' philanthropy and support for progressive causes has made him the object of a large number of conspiracy theories, most of them originating from the political right. Veronika Bondarenko, writing for \"Business Insider\" said that \"For two decades, some have seen Soros as a kind of puppet master secretly controlling the global economy and politics.\" The New York Times describes the allegations as moving \"from the dark corners of the internet and talk radio\" to \"the very center of the political debate\" by 2018.\n\nSoros has become a magnet for such theories, with opponents claiming that he is behind such diverse events as the 2017 Women's March, the fact-checking website Snopes, the gun-control activism engaged in by the survivors of the Stoneman Douglas High School shooting, the October 2018 immigrant caravan, and the protests against then-Supreme Court nominee Brett Kavanaugh.\n\nConservatives, meanwhile, picked up on the thread in the late 2000s, spearheaded by Fox News. Bill O'Reilly gave an almost ten-minute monologue on Soros in 2007, calling him an \"extremist\" and claiming he was \"off-the-charts dangerous\". The Breitbart News website, according to the London \"Times\" journalist, David Aaronovitch, in promoting East European nationalism, has regularly published articles blaming Soros for anything of which it disapproves.\n\nSoros' opposition to Brexit (in the United Kingdom) led to a front page on the British Conservative supporting newspaper, \"The Daily Telegraph\" in February 2018, which was accused of antisemitism for claiming he was involved in a supposed \"secret plot\" for the country's voters to reverse their decision to leave the European Union. While the \"Telegraph\" did not mention Soros is Jewish, his opposition to Britain leaving the European Union had been reported elsewhere in less conspiratorial terms. Stephen Pollard, editor of \"The Jewish Chronicle\", said on Twitter: \"The point is that language matters so much and this is \"exactly\" the language being used by antisemites here and abroad\".\n\nAfter being ousted from office in the wake of the Panama Papers scandal of 2016, Icelandic Prime Minister Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson accused Soros of having bankrolled a conspiracy to remove him from power. It was later pointed out that Soros himself had also been implicated in the Panama Papers, casting doubt on the prime minister's theory.\n\nSoros has been accused by right-wing personalities such as Alex Jones, Roseanne Barr and James Woods of having been a Nazi collaborator who turned in other Jews and stole their riches, despite his young age at the time and the fact that he, along with his family, had to hide from the Hungarian government during the German occupation.\n\nIn October 2018, Soros was accused without evidence of funding a Central American migrant caravan heading toward America. The theory that Soros was somehow causing Central American migration at the southern US border apparently dates back to late March 2018, however. The October 2018 strain of the theory has been described to combine anti-semitism, anti-immigrant sentiment and \" the specter of powerful foreign agents controlling major world events in pursuit of a hidden agenda\", connecting Soros and other wealthy individuals of Jewish faith or background to the October caravan. Both Cesar Sayoc, the perpetrator of the October 2018 attempted bombings of prominent Democrats, and Robert Bowers, the perpetrator of the Pittsburgh synagogue shooting, referred to this conspiracy theory on social media before their crimes.\n\nA pipe bomb was placed in the mailbox at Soros's Katonah, New York home on October 22, 2018, as part of the October 2018 United States mail bombing attempts. The package was discovered by a caretaker, who removed it and notified authorities. It was photographed and exploded by the FBI, which launched an investigation. Two days later, similar bombs were mailed to Hillary Clinton, Barack Obama, other Democrats, and John Brennan (mailed to CNN New York studios).\n\nOn October 26, 2018, Cesar Sayoc, a registered Republican and Trump supporter, was arrested in Aventura, Florida on suspicion of mailing the bombs.\n\nSoros's writings focus heavily on the concept of reflexivity, where the biases of individuals enter into market transactions, potentially changing the fundamentals of the economy. Soros argues that different principles apply in markets depending on whether they are in a \"near to equilibrium\" or a \"far from equilibrium\" state. He argues that, when markets are rising or falling rapidly, they are typically marked by disequilibrium rather than equilibrium, and that the conventional economic theory of the market (the 'efficient market hypothesis') does not apply in these situations. Soros has popularized the concepts of dynamic disequilibrium, static disequilibrium, and near-equilibrium conditions. He has stated that his own financial success has been attributable to the edge accorded by his understanding of the action of the reflexive effect. Reflexivity is based on three main ideas:\n\n\nA recent example of reflexivity in modern financial markets is that of the debt and equity of housing markets. Lenders began to make more money available to more people in the 1990s to buy houses. More people bought houses with this larger amount of money, thus increasing the prices of these houses. Lenders looked at their balance sheets which not only showed that they had made more loans, but that the collaterals backing the loans – the value of the houses – had gone up (because more money was chasing the same amount of housing, relatively). Thus they lent out more money because their balance sheets looked good, and prices rose higher still.\n\nThis was further amplified by public policy. In the US, home loans were guaranteed by the Federal government. Many national governments saw home ownership as a positive outcome and so introduced grants for first-time home buyers and other financial subsidies, such as the exemption of a primary residence from capital gains taxation. These further encouraged house purchases, leading to further price rises and further relaxation of lending standards.\n\nThe concept of reflexivity attempts to explain why markets moving from one equilibrium state to another tend to overshoot or undershoot. Soros's theories were originally dismissed by economists, but have received more attention after the 2008 crash including becoming the focus of an issue of the \"Journal of Economic Methodology\".\n\nThe notion of reflexivity provides an explanation of the theories of Complexity economics, as developed at the Santa Fe Institute, although Soros had not publicised his views at the time the discipline was originally developed there in the 1980s.\n\nAlthough the primary manifestation of the reflexive process that Soros discusses is its effects in the financial markets, he has also explored its effects in politics. He has stated that whereas the greatest threats to the \"Open Society\" in the past were from Communism and Fascism (as discussed in \"The Open Society and its Enemies\" by his mentor Karl Popper), the largest current threat is from market fundamentalism.\n\nHe has suggested that the contemporary domination of world politics and world trade by the United States is a reflexive phenomenon, insofar as the success of military and financial coercion feeds back to encourage increasingly intense applications of the same policies to the point where they will eventually become unsustainable.\n\nSoros argues that the current system of financial speculation undermines healthy economic development in many underdeveloped countries. He blames many of the world's problems on the failures inherent in what he characterizes as market fundamentalism. Soros claims to draw a distinction between being a participant in the market and working to change the rules that market participants must follow.\n\nSoros's book \"The New Paradigm for Financial Markets\" (May 2008), described a \"superbubble\" that had built up over the past 25 years and was ready to collapse. This was the third in a series of books he has written that have predicted disaster. As he states:\n\nHe ascribes his own success to being able to recognize when his predictions are wrong.\n\nIn February 2009, Soros said the world financial system had in effect disintegrated, adding that there was no prospect of a near-term resolution to the crisis. \"We witnessed the collapse of the financial system ... It was placed on life support, and it's still on life support. There's no sign that we are anywhere near a bottom.\"\n\nIn January 2016, at an economic forum in Sri Lanka, Soros predicted a financial crisis akin to 2008 based on the state of the global currency, stock and commodity markets as well as the sinking Chinese yuan.\n\nWhen asked about what he thought about Israel, in \"The New Yorker\", Soros replied: \"I don't deny the Jews to a right to a national existence – but I don't want anything to do with it.\" According to hacked emails released in 2016, Soros's Open Society Foundation has a self-described objective of \"challenging Israel's racist and anti-democratic policies\" in international forums, in part by questioning Israel's reputation as a democracy. He has funded NGOs which have been actively critical of Israeli policies including groups that campaign for the Boycott, Divestment and Sanctions movement against Israel.\n\nSpeaking before a 2003 conference of the Jewish Funders Network, Soros said that the administrations of G.W. Bush in the U.S. and Ariel Sharon in Israel, and even the unintended consequences of some of his own actions, were partially contributing to a new European antisemitism. Soros, citing accusations that he was one of the \"Jewish financiers\" who, in antisemitic terms, \"ruled the world by proxy\", suggested that if we change the direction of those policies, then anti-Semitism also will diminish. Abraham Foxman later said that Soros's comments held a simplistic view, were counterproductive, biased and a bigoted perception of what's out there, and \"blamed the victim\" when holding Jews responsible for antisemitism. Jewish philanthropist Michael Steinhardt, who arranged for Soros's appearance at the conference, clarified, \"George Soros does not think Jews should be hated any more than they deserve to be.\" Soros has also said that Jews can overcome antisemitism by \"giv[ing] up on the tribalness.\"\n\nIn a subsequent article for \"The New York Review of Books\", Soros emphasized that\n\nI do not subscribe to the myths propagated by enemies of Israel and I am not blaming Jews for anti-Semitism. Anti-Semitism predates the birth of Israel. Neither Israel's policies nor the critics of those policies should be held responsible for anti-Semitism. At the same time, I do believe that attitudes toward Israel are influenced by Israel's policies, and attitudes toward the Jewish community are influenced by the pro-Israel lobby's success in suppressing divergent views.\n\nIn 2017, Israeli billionaire businessman Beny Steinmetz filed a $10 million lawsuit against Soros, alleging that Soros had influenced the government of Guinea to freeze Steinmetz's company BSG Resources out of iron ore mining contracts in the African country due to \"long-standing animus toward the state of Israel.\" Steinmetz claims that Soros engaged in a \"smear\" campaign against him and his companies and blames Soros for scrutiny of him by American, Israeli, Swiss, and Guinean authorities. Soros called Steinmetz's suit \"frivolous and entirely false\" and said that it was \"a desperate PR stunt meant to deflect attention from BSGR's mounting legal problems across multiple jurisdictions.\"\n\nDuring an award ceremony for Imre Kertész, Soros said that the victims of violence and abuse were becoming \"perpetrators of violence,\" suggesting that this model explained Israel's behavior towards the Palestinians, which led to walkouts and Soros being booed.\n\nIn July 2017, the Israeli ambassador in Hungary joined Jewish groups and others in denouncing a billboard campaign backed by Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orbán, in which Soros was vilified as an \"enemy of the state\". The campaign was widely seen as anti-semitic, with critics claiming it \"evokes memories of the Nazi posters during the Second World War\". The ambassador stated that the campaign \"evokes sad memories but also sows hatred and fear\", an apparent reference to the Holocaust. Hungary's right-wing government had frequently attacked Soros, particularly for his support for more open immigration. Hours later, in an apparent attempt to ally Israel with Hungary, Israel's Ministry of Foreign Affairs issued a \"clarification\", denouncing Soros, stating that he \"continuously undermines Israel's democratically elected governments,\" and that Soros funded organizations \"that defame the Jewish state and seek to deny it the right to defend itself\". The Israeli government has sought to ally itself with countries within the EU that might defend it from criticism; the clarification came a few days before an official visit to Hungary by Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu.\n\nOn November 11, 2003, in an interview with \"The Washington Post\", Soros said that removing President George W. Bush from office was the \"central focus of my life\" and \"a matter of life and death.\" He said he would sacrifice his entire fortune to defeat Bush \"if someone guaranteed it.\" Soros gave $3 million to the Center for American Progress, $2.5 million to MoveOn.org, and $20 million to America Coming Together. These groups worked to support Democrats in the 2004 election. On September 28, 2004, he dedicated more money to the campaign and kicked off his own multistate tour with a speech: \"Why We Must Not Re-elect President Bush\" delivered at the National Press Club in Washington, D.C. The online transcript to this speech received many hits after Dick Cheney accidentally referred to FactCheck.org as \"factcheck.com\" in the vice presidential debate, causing the owner of that domain to redirect all traffic to Soros's site.\nHis 2003 book, \"The Bubble of American Supremacy\", was a forthright critique of the Bush administration's \"War on Terror\" as misconceived and counterproductive, and a polemic against the re-election of Bush. He explains the title in the closing chapter by pointing out the parallels in this political context with the self-reinforcing reflexive processes that generate bubbles in stock prices.\n\nWhen Soros was asked in 2006 about his statement in \"The Age of Fallibility\" that \"the main obstacle to a stable and just world order is the United States,\" he responded that \"it happens to coincide with the prevailing opinion in the world. And I think that's rather shocking for Americans to hear. The United States sets the agenda for the world. And the rest of the world has to respond to that agenda. By declaring a 'war on terror' after September 11, we set the wrong agenda for the world ... When you wage war, you inevitably create innocent victims.\"\n\nSoros described Donald Trump as a con man. Soros expects Trump to fail because Soros believes Trump's ideas are self-contradictory. Soros believes Trump is preparing for a trade war and expects financial markets to do badly.\n\nIn October 2011, Soros drafted an open letter entitled \"As concerned Europeans we urge Eurozone leaders to unite,\" in which he calls for a stronger economic government for Europe using federal means (Common EU treasury, common fiscal supervision, etc.) and warns against the danger of nationalistic solutions to the economic crisis. The letter was co-signed by Javier Solana, Daniel Cohn-Bendit, Andrew Duff, Emma Bonino, Massimo d'Alema, Vaira Vike-Freiberga.\n\nSoros criticized Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orbán and his handling of the European migrant crisis in 2015: \"His plan treats the protection of national borders as the objective and the refugees as an obstacle. Our plan treats the protection of refugees as the objective and national borders as the obstacle.\"\n\nSoros expects that Brexit will fail and the Premiership of Theresa May will last only a short time.<ref name=\"Guardian20/01/2017\">George Soros: Theresa May won't last and Donald Trump is 'would-be dictator' \"The Guardian\"</ref> Soros is opposed to Brexit and has donated £400,000 to the anti-Brexit 'Best for Britain' group. Soros also hosted a dinner for Conservative donors at his London home to encourage them to follow his lead. Soros's Open Society Foundations also donated a total of £303,000 to two pro-EU organizations, the European Movement UK and Scientists for EU, and a center-right think-tank, Bright Blue.\n\nIn 2018, Soros has highlighted that Europe faces major challenges, in particular, that related to immigration, austerity, and nations leaving the political block. He holds that Europe is facing an existential crisis, in view of the rise of populism, the refugee crisis and a growing rift between Europe and the United States. Soros has also stated that \"the euro has many unresolved problems\" which \"must not be allowed to destroy the European Union\". He advocated replacing the notion of a multi-speed Europe by the aim of a \"multi-track Europe\" that would allow member states a wider variety of choices.\n\nIn view of the possibility of a further increase of the number of refugees from Africa to Europe, Soros proposes that the European Union devise a \"Marshall Plan for Africa\" (see \"Marshall Plan\"), fostering education and employment in Africa in order to reduce emigration.\n\nSoros has expressed concern about the growth of Chinese economic and political power, saying, \"China has risen very rapidly by looking out for its own interests ... They have now got to accept responsibility for world order and the interests of other people as well.\" Regarding the political gridlock in America, he said, \"Today, China has not only a more vigorous economy but actually a better functioning government than the United States.\" In July 2015, Soros stated that a \"strategic partnership between the US and China could prevent the evolution of two power blocks that may be drawn into military conflict.\" In January 2016, during an interview at the World Economic Forum (WEF) in Davos, Soros stated that \"[a] hard landing is practically unavoidable.\" Chinese state media responded by stating \"Soros' challenge to the RMB and Hong Kong dollar are doomed to fail, without any doubt.\"\n\nIn May 2014, Soros told CNN's Fareed Zakaria: \"I set up a foundation in Ukraine before Ukraine became independent from Russia. And the foundation has been functioning ever since and played an important part in events now.\"\n\nIn January 2015, Soros said that \"Europe needs to wake up and recognize that it is under attack from Russia.\" He also urged Western countries to expand economic sanctions against Russia for its support of separatists in eastern Ukraine.\n\nIn January 2015, Soros called on the European Union to give $50 billion of bailout money to Ukraine.\n\nIn July 2015, Soros stated that Putin's annexation of Crimea was a challenge to the \"prevailing world order,\" specifically the European Union. He hypothesized that Putin wants to \"destabilize all of Ukraine by precipitating a financial and political collapse for which he can disclaim responsibility, while avoiding occupation of a part of eastern Ukraine, which would then depend on Russia for economic support.\" In November 2015, Russia banned the Open Society Foundations (OSF) and the Open Society Institute (OSI)-- two pro-democracy charities founded by Soros—stating they posed a \"threat to the foundations of the constitutional system of the Russian Federation and the security of the state.\" In January 2016, 53 books related to Soros's \"Renewal of Humanitarian Education\" program were withdrawn at the Vorkuta Mining and Economic College in the Komi Republic, with 427 additional books seized for shredding. A Russian intergovernmental letter released in December 2015 stated that Soros's charities were \"forming a perverted perception of history and making ideological directives, alien to Russian ideology, popular\". Most of these books were published with funds donated by Soros's charities.\n\n, \"Forbes Magazine\" listed Soros as the 19th richest person in the world, the world's richest hedge-fund manager, and 19th on its list of the 400 wealthiest Americans, with a net worth estimated at $25.2 billion. Soros lost almost $1 billion in the weeks after the election of Republican Donald Trump as U.S. president in 2016.\n\nSoros has been active as a philanthropist since the 1970s, when he began providing funds to help black students attend the University of Cape Town in apartheid South Africa, and began funding dissident movements behind the Iron Curtain.\n\nSoros's philanthropic funding includes efforts to promote non-violent democratization in the post-Soviet states. These efforts, mostly in Central and Eastern Europe, occur primarily through the Open Society Foundations (originally Open Society Institute or OSI) and national Soros Foundations, which sometimes go under other names (such as the Stefan Batory Foundation in Poland). As of 2003, PBS estimated that he had given away a total of $4 billion. The OSI says it has spent about $500 million annually in recent years.\n\nIn 2003, former Federal Reserve chairman Paul Volcker wrote in the foreword of Soros's book \"The Alchemy of Finance\":\n\nGeorge Soros has made his mark as an enormously successful speculator, wise enough to largely withdraw when still way ahead of the game. The bulk of his enormous winnings is now devoted to encouraging transitional and emerging nations to become \"open societies,\" open not only in the sense of freedom of commerce but—more important—tolerant of new ideas and different modes of thinking and behavior.\n\n\"Time\" magazine in 2007 cited two specific projects—$100 million toward Internet infrastructure for regional Russian universities, and $50 million for the Millennium Promise to eradicate extreme poverty in Africa—noting that Soros had given $742 million to projects in the U.S., and given away a total of more than $7 billion.\n\nOther notable projects have included aid to scientists and universities throughout central and eastern Europe, help to civilians during the siege of Sarajevo, and Transparency International. Soros also pledged an endowment of €420 million to the Central European University (CEU). The Nobel Peace Prize winner Muhammad Yunus and his microfinance bank Grameen Bank received support from the OSI.\n\nAccording to \"National Review Online\" the Open Society Institute gave $20,000 in September 2002 to the Defense Committee of Lynne Stewart, the lawyer who has defended controversial, poor, and often unpopular defendants in court and was sentenced to 2 years in prison for \"providing material support for a terrorist conspiracy\" via a press conference for a client. An OSI spokeswoman said \"it appeared to us at that time that there was a right-to-counsel issue worthy of our support\" but claimed later requests for support were declined.\n\nIn September 2006, Soros pledged $50 million to the Millennium Promise, led by economist Jeffrey Sachs to provide educational, agricultural, and medical aid to help villages in Africa enduring poverty. \"The New York Times\" termed this endeavor a \"departure\" for Soros whose philanthropic focus had been on fostering democracy and good government, but Soros noted that most poverty resulted from bad governance.\n\nSoros played a role in the peaceful transition from communism to democracy in Hungary (1984–89) and provided a substantial endowment to Central European University in Budapest. The Open Society Foundations has active programs in more than 60 countries around the world with total expenditures currently averaging approximately $600 million a year.\n\nOn October 17, 2017, it was announced that Soros had transferred $18 billion to the Open Society Foundations.\n\nIn October 2018, Soros donated $2 million to the Wikimedia Foundation via the Wikimedia Endowment program.\n\nSoros received honorary doctoral degrees from the New School for Social Research (New York), the University of Oxford in 1980, the Corvinus University of Budapest, and Yale University in 1991. He received the Yale International Center for Finance Award from the Yale School of Management in 2000 as well as an honorary degree in economics from the University of Bologna in 1995, the oldest university in the world.\n\nIn 2008, he was inducted into Institutional Investors Alpha's Hedge Fund Manager Hall of Fame along with David Swensen, Louis Bacon, Steven Cohen, Kenneth Griffin, Paul Tudor Jones, Seth Klarman, Michael Steinhardt, Jack Nash, James Simmons, Alfred Jones, Leon Levy, Julian Roberston, and Bruce Kovner.\n\nIn January 2014, Soros was ranked number 1 in LCH Investments list of top 20 managers having posting gains of almost $42 billion since the launch of his Quantum Endowment Fund in 1973.\n\nIn July 2017, Soros was elected an Honorary Fellow of the British Academy (HonFBA), the United Kingdom's national academy for the humanities and social sciences.\n\nGeorge Soros has written many books, articles, and papers on economics, finance, stock trading, and geopolitics.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "823320", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=823320", "title": "Get out the vote", "text": "Get out the vote\n\n\"Get out the vote\" (or \"getting out the vote\"; GOTV) describes efforts aimed at increasing the voter turnout in elections. In countries that do not have or enforce compulsory voting, voter turnout can be low, sometimes even below a third of the eligible voter pool. GOTV is generally not required for elections when there are effective compulsory voting systems in place, other than perhaps to register first time voters.\n\nThere may be two types of political campaigns. The first is voter registration campaigns by electoral authorities or nonpartisan organizations that attempt to motivate potential voters to register and to vote. The second type is efforts made by political parties or politicians targeted at registered voters who are expected to vote in their favor. Campaigns typically attempt to register voters, then get them to vote, either by absentee ballot, early voting or election day voting.\n\nIn contexts of the efforts of candidates, party activities and ballot measure campaigns, \"get-out-the-vote\" or \"GOTV\" is an adjective indicating having the effect of increasing the number of the campaign's \"supporters\" who will vote in the immediately approaching election.\n\nTypically GOTV is a distinct phase of the overall campaign. Tactics used during GOTV often include: telephoning or sending personalized audio messages to known supporters on the days leading up to an election (or on election day itself), providing transport to and from polling stations for supporters, and canvassing known supporters. Canvassing for the purpose of voter registration usually ceases when GOTV begins. Other activities include literature drops early on election day or the evening before and an active tracking of eligible voters who have already voted.\n\nThe importance of get out the vote efforts increases as the total percentage of the population voting decreases. For instance, with only two-thirds of the population voting in a Canadian election it is often easier and more cost effective to ensure that a hundred supporters show up on polling day than it is to convince a hundred voters to switch support from one party to the other. This situation often leads to polarized electoral politics. A 90% turnout from a party's radical base is often better than a 50 percent turnout from both radical and moderate supporters.\n\nGOTV can also be important in high turn-out elections when the margin of victory is expected to be close.\n\nIn many countries, the task of electoral authorities includes the promotion of and assisting in the registration of potential voters, and in the exercise of the right to vote. However, such efforts are not uniformly successful, and at times are partisan.\n\nA number of nonpartisan voter turnout organizations have formed in an effort to \"get out the vote\". In the United States, such voter turnout organizations include the League of Women Voters, Rock the Vote, The Voter Participation Center and Vote.org, which attempt to motivate potential voters to register and to vote in the belief that failure of any eligible voter to vote in any election is a loss to society.\n\nThe effort of these organizations is in getting people to vote and not to promote particular candidates or political view, and a group is nonpartisan if it is not directing people how to vote. Nonpartisan groups generally do not distribute literature about candidates or causes when assisting potential voters to register to vote, and also do not focus GOTV efforts on voters who are most likely to agree with their personal views.\n\nThe traditional GOTV method used in the UK is the Reading system, developed by the Reading Constituency Labour Party and its MP Ian Mikardo for the 1945 general election. Once canvassing was performed to identify likely Labour voters, these were compiled onto 'Reading pads' or 'Mikardo sheets' featuring the names and addresses of supporters and pasted onto a large table or plank of wood. On election day these lists, with identical copies underneath, were torn off and given to GOTV campaigners. Lists of this type are sometimes referred to as Shuttleworths.\n\nAt each polling station, tellers for each party will collect the unique poll numbers of voters from their polling cards. These numbers are regularly collected from the polling stations and collated in a campaign headquarters for each ward, often referred to in the UK as a committee room. 'Promised voters' who have already voted are then crossed off the list of voters canvassed as supporting Labour. This enables campaigners to then focus more efficiently on the remainder of their supporters who have not voted. Computerisation has heralded further increases in efficiency, but nearly all subsequent methodologies can be traced back in some form to the Reading system.\n\nThe terminology reflects a distinction of GOTV from the complementary strategy of suppressing turnout among likely opposition voters. Political consultants are reputed to privately advise some candidates to \"go negative\" (attack an opponent), without any intent to sway voters toward them: this plan is to instead increase the number of eligible voters who \"fail to vote\", because their tendency to believe \"politics is inherently corrupt\" has so recently been reinforced. Such turnout suppression can be advantageous where any combination of three conditions apply:\n\nFace to face GOTV has been found to be less effective with Vote by mail balloting. \nPolitical scientists have conducted hundreds of field experiments to learn which get out the vote tactics are effective, when, and on which types of voters. This research has revolutionized how campaigns conceive of their get out the vote efforts. Research also shows that voting is habit-forming, as voting in one election increases the probability of voting in a future election by 10 percentage points (controlling for other factors).\n\nThe value of GOTV is unclear, but a well-organized effort can gain a candidate as much as nine percentage points in campaigns in the United States. In terms of mobilization, studies have found that door-to-door canvassing increases turnout among the contacted households with approximately 4.3 percentage points, according to experts Alan Gerber and Gregory Huber in 2016 while a 2013 study of 71 canvasses including many that targeted low propensity voters found turnout increased by 2–3 percentage points. Even earlier, analysts had often concluded that personal canvassing produced far higher voter turnout rates, such as 9.8-12.8%. While most experiments have been conducted in the US, recent studies have found similar or somewhat smaller effects in Europe.\n\nThe guide to grassroots elections \"Get Out the Vote\" determined that GOTV efforts averaged one vote every 15 door knocks by volunteers ($31 dollars per vote), 35 phone calls by volunteers ($35 dollars per vote), or 273 pieces of nonpartisan direct mail ($91 dollars per vote, no effect from partisan direct mail). They note that campaigns which experiment carefully can do better than these averages. Campaigns can raise turnout up to 8 percentage points with direct mail which tells neighbors when other neighbors have voted and promises to mail an update after the election, though people complain when they have no way to opt in or out of notification.\n\nOther studies have found that GOTV methods contribute little to none to voter turnout. One field experiment found that GOTV phone calls were largely ineffective, and that ease of access to polling locations had the largest impact on voter turnout.\n\nThere is also the argument that GOTV targets a more affluent demographic, which is already more likely to vote. Less politically engaged demographic and socioeconomic groups are sometimes neglected in GOTV efforts.\n\nGOTV is often most effective when potential voters are told to do so \"because others will ask\" Voters will then go to the polls as a means of fulfilling perceived societal expectations. Paradoxically, informing voters that turnout is expecting to be high was found to increase actual voter turnout, while predicting lower turnouts actually resulted in less voters.\n\nIn 2004 Rock the Vote paid to run TV ads aimed at young voters, on a random sample of small cable systems where they could measure the effects. Turnout was three percentage points higher among 18-19-year olds in these sample areas than in the control group covered by other similar small cable systems; there was less effect above age 22.\n\nIn November 2012 and 2013 Rock the Vote experimented with Facebook ads to encourage voter turnout by telling people the number of days remaining until the election and which of their friends \"liked\" the countdown. The ads were shown to over 400,000 adults, randomly selected from a base over 800,000. Rock the Vote had helped many of them register. The ads did not increase turnout in the experimental group, compared to the control group who did not get the ads. In 2012 they also experimented with text message reminders to 180,000 people who had provided their mobile numbers. Texts the day before the election raised turnout six tenths of a percentage point, while texts on election day lowered turnout.\n\nSeveral mobile apps tell people where to vote, identify their elected officials, or search candidates' positions, though no evidence measures how much these raise turnout. Facebook apps let users see who their friends endorse, which gives them a shortcut in deciding whom to vote for.\n\nStudies in 2012 and 2017 found that Facebook's “I’m Voting/I’m a Voter” button increased turnout in the 2010 Congressional elections by six tenths of a percentage point, and in the 2012 presidential election by a quarter of a percentage point. It named their friends who had clicked the voting button, thus opting in and minimizing complaints. However the button only appeared on election day, so it did not let friends track and encourage each other throughout the early voting period which most states have. It has been used in many elections throughout the world since then, without clarity on which users see it, leading to concerns on how it biases turnout.\n\nGroups such as Postcards To Voters send handwritten postcards to potential voters ahead of elections in hopes of increasing turnout. A 2007 study showed that handwritten notes were three times as effective as machine-printed ones.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56528289", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56528289", "title": "Groundwater Ambient Monitoring and Assessment Program", "text": "Groundwater Ambient Monitoring and Assessment Program\n\nThe Groundwater Ambient Monitoring and Assessment Program (GAMA) is an all-inclusive monitoring program for groundwater that was implemented in 2000 in California, United States. It was created by the California State Water Resources Control Board as an improvement from groundwater programs that were already in place. GAMA monitors various aspects in groundwater such as the water quality and allotment total through research projects conducted by multiple agencies both statewide and locally sourced. GAMA wants to improve public awareness for groundwater resources as well as improve monitoring on groundwater research across the state to assess potential hazards from this resource.\n\nApproximately 85% of water used in California by farmers and residents today is from groundwater, with 6 million Californians relying solely on this resource. The Central Valley is a big user of groundwater for agricultural purposes which supplies a large portion of food for not only California, but for the rest of the United States as well. This resource for a long time had been unregulated which helps us understand the groundwater crisis that occurs today in California. This was a highly relied upon resource over the past century, and was especially critical during drought periods. When there was less snow pack and less precipitation, people relied heavily on groundwater. Over time, issues have arose like land subsidence which occurs from pumping groundwater out faster than it can naturally replenish underground. This is one reason among many others for why GAMA was proposed.\n\nSince GAMA has been implemented, there have been a few projects that GAMA aims to achieve to better understand California's groundwater systems.\n\nBegun in 2002 to help better understand risks imposed on California groundwater, this project looks at both deep and shallow aquifers. Deep groundwater for this project looks at how this water is used for the public use. Shallow aquifers address more local water uses such as wells. By tracking both of these aquifers, officials hope to be able to better understand impacts on groundwater, to provide more information to consumers.\n\nThis is a system that integrates reported data from all of Californias groundwater systems from both the Priority Basin Project and the Domestic Well Project. This information goes through analytical processes to later be uploaded onto a comprehensive statewide map. This monitoring method allows all agencies access to a comprehensive site where data is available for users to see if there is a potential contaminant that is above safety levels.\n\nThis project took samples from domestic wells and analyzed the water quality for commonly occurring chemicals. This gave well owners information regarding the quality of their water, which also acted as a baseline for other wells in the area. This information was entered into the GeoTracker GAMA project data. There has been a main focus on six counties which include Tehama, Monterey, Yuba, El Dorado, Tulare, and San Diego counties. Over one thousand wells collectively between all counties have been sampled so far. Chemicals tested include Nitrates, Perchlorate, Sulfate, Chloride, Coliform, Volatile Organic Compounds, Aluminum, Arsenic, Cadmium, Chromium, Iron, Lead, Manganese, Thallium, Vanadium, Zinc, Radium, and Uranium. Most owners received information by pamphlets sent by mail regarding the water quality of their well.\n\nGAMA was built on current legislation which consists of six bills and one proposition.\n\nTook affect in 2001 shortly after GAMA was implemented. Legislature stated that it's a necessity that groundwater should continue to be monitored to make sure the groundwater system is safe. More information to the public needs to be improved upon, and more information needs to be conducted to better understand how to restore depleted groundwater systems. A comprehensive program among agencies would need to be implemented across the state to ensure adequate monitoring measures.\nPassed in November 2002. This Act was granted approximately $380 million for IRWM plans and projects. Voters approved this act which would help with a number of issues such as groundwater replenishment plans, improved water quality, and improved water security.\n\nStates that rules from Proposition 50 must be in line with AB 599.\n\nThis bill states that the state board extend AB 599 funding to 2024. Public opinion would be able to make recommendations and state opinions before new legislation would be enacted. Public accessibility would be improved upon as well regarding issues such as contaminated groundwater, and developing plans to assess the situation.\n\nImplemented in 2008 as a recovery program to understand why contamination can occur in groundwater and preventative measures. Tulare lake and Salinas basin will serve as a research zones. Agencies will find point sources of nitrates in groundwater, and reduce nitrate levels or prevent them entirely. Costs and funding methods must be interpreted for these zones. Adding an interagency task force to monitor and expand cleanup programs will be a necessity, and reports must be generated including all research conducted from Tulare Lake and the Salinas Basin.\n\nA local agency can come up with a new plan for groundwater management based on prior groundwater laws. SB 1938 declared that groundwater must be protected and adequately managed, especially during dry years where groundwater use increases. This bill continues to declare that groundwater systems are not well understood which complicates future planning, and that agencies need to communicate with each other to effectively manage a monitoring system fo this resource.\n\nImplemented in 2013. Well Stimulation Treatments would need an all-inclusive program to monitor these actions. Part of this bill enacted research on well stimulation treatments which owners or well operators would be required to have recorded data on these sites. Permits would be required to perform any well stimulation treatments as well as frequent inspections. Fines will be issued if violations occur. This program must be implemented starting in July, 2015.\n"}
{"id": "18889644", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18889644", "title": "Hapu Party", "text": "Hapu Party\n\nThe Hapu Party was a Māori political party in New Zealand formed in August 2008. The party's leader was Northland iwi leader David Rankin.\n\nThe Hapu Party believed that because of poorer Māori health outcomes, and therefore reduced life expectancy, Māori should be eligible for the pension at age 56. It planned to introduce a flat rate 18% personal tax and GST rate. Finally it sought to introduce the allocation of Treaty of Waitangi settlement monies to hapū and marae, and to allow treaty claims to be made over private land. \n\nThe Hapu party sought to stand candidates in all seven Māori electorates for the 2008 election. It ran only a single candidate in 2008, receiving only 202 votes. It did not run any candidates in the 2011 election.\n\nThe party's leader David Rankin, Matarahurahu hapū leader, became involved in a number of controversies including attempting to ban Māori Party MP Hone Harawira and his mother Titewhai Harawira from Waitangi Day commemorations in 2007. Later he called for Harawira's resignation following Harawira's allegations of racism towards the Australian prime minister. Rankin became involved in the question of authenticity surrounding the auction of a piece of the famous Kororareka flagpole cut down in Russel in 1844 as an act of defiance against British authority, by his great great uncle Hone Heke.\n"}
{"id": "42586813", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42586813", "title": "Human rights in Niue", "text": "Human rights in Niue\n\nNiue is a country in the South Pacific Ocean with an estimated population of 1,190. Since 1974, it has been self-governing in free association with New Zealand. Niue controls its own internal affairs, while New Zealand retains responsibility for its defence and external relations and is required to provide necessary economic and administrative assistance.\n\nNiue does not have a Bill of Rights guaranteeing fundamental rights or freedom from discrimination. Law relevant to human rights can be found in various pieces of ordinary legislation. Areas of concern include the rights of women, children, and persons who identify as lesbian, gay, bisexual or transgender (LGBT).\n\nDuring recent consultations, Niue developed Terms of Reference for a Human Rights Committee which will be responsible for examining the country's human rights obligations arising from international law.\n\nNiue is party to treaties signed and ratified by New Zealand prior to 1988, including the following:\n\n\nIn 1988, New Zealand submitted a Declaration to the United Nations, stating that treaty obligations it subsequently entered into were to no longer bind Niue. Noting that it had become a member of the World Health Organization (WHO) and the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO), the Secretary-General recognised Niue's capacity to enter into international treaties in 1994. The following year, Niue acceded to the Convention on the Rights of the Child (CRC).\n\nAs a self-governing state, it is responsible for producing its own reports on measures adopted to give effect to international treaties. Despite offers of assistance from New Zealand, Niue has experienced difficulty in doing so due to its small population and a shortage of resources and expertise. Its initial report under the Convention on the Rights of the Child was due in 1998, but not submitted until 2010.\n\nNiue is not subject to the Universal Periodic Review process as it is not a member state of the United Nations.\n\nThe Niue Constitution Act 1974 sets out provisions for Niue's self-government. The Constitution of Niue, contained in Schedules 1 (Niuean) and 2 (English), is supreme law. It prescribes the powers and functions of the executive, legislative and judicial branches of Government. Aside from the right to vote, it does not provide for any fundamental rights.\n\nPreviously, Article 31 of Schedule 2 set out special rules for proposed legislation which could impact upon human rights. This required the Chief Justice to be invited to comment on the legal, constitutional, and policy issues where a Bill or proposed amendment affected such matters as criminal procedure, definitions of criminal offences, marriage, the law of evidence, and extradition. This Article was repealed by the Constitution Amendment (No 1) Act 1992.\n\nIn 1991, a Committee considered the inclusion of specific human rights guarantees in the Constitution in the form of a Bill of Rights, but ultimately rejected this idea.\n\nLegislation that is in force in Niue today consists of: \n\nCore New Zealand human rights enactments, such as the New Zealand Bill of Rights Act 1990 and the Human Rights Act 1993, do not apply in Niue.\n\nThe death penalty has been abolished in Niue.\n\nThe Niue Assembly has the power to make laws for the \"peace, order and good government\" of Niue. It has twenty members, elected under a system of universal suffrage, and a Speaker. Elections occur every three years.\n\nA person is not qualified to be registered as an elector if he or she:\n\n\nIssues with access to justice have arisen due to a shortage of persons with the relevant skills and knowledge. There is no system of legal aid, and a survey carried out in 2011 found there were only six lawyers in Niue. Niue is a member of the Pacific Judicial Development Programme, which aims to improve the operation of the justice system in the Pacific region by providing training and support.\n\nThere are no legislative restrictions on religious belief or practice, however the Constitution does not guarantee freedom of religion, nor is there any legislation which prohibits discrimination on the grounds of religion. The majority of Niueans are Christian, and some laws, such as bans on fishing and exhibiting films on Sundays, reflect this.\n\nWhile the Constitution does not expressly guarantee freedom of expression, there are few restrictions on what can be said or published in Niue. Inciting racial disharmony is an imprisonable offence. Persons who make statements which constitute libel or slander are also liable to imprisonment.\n\nThe Government is the main employer in Niue. Conditions of employment, entitlement to leave, and processes for promotions and disciplinary action in the public sector are laid down by the Public Service Regulations 2004. Retirement is compulsory for permanent employees in the public service upon reaching the age of 55. There is no labour law for workers employed in the private sector.\n\nIt is unlawful to refuse access to public places, vehicles and facilities, provision of goods or services, employment, or access to land and housing on the basis of colour, race, or ethnic or national origins. Persons who believe themselves to be aggrieved by these provisions are entitled to bring civil proceedings in court. Agreements in relation to real property are void to the extent that they prohibit or restrict dealings by reason of the colour, race or ethnic origins of an individual or their family. Persons who incite racial disharmony through the use of threatening or abusive words are liable to imprisonment.\n\nAlthough there is no law prohibiting discrimination on the grounds of sex or gender, Niue generally \"offer[s] women equality under the law\". It is on track to meet its Millennium Development Goals of 2015 in relation to promoting gender equality and empowering women. There have been no reports of maternal deaths since 1980, gender parity has been achieved in primary and tertiary education, and there is high participation of women in government.\n\nThere are, however, areas of concern. Domestic violence is \"pervasive\" and tends to be managed by families themselves rather the authorities. There is presently no legislation which deals specifically with this issue, although work is under way on a Family Protection Bill which is expected to provide measures for the punishment of perpetrators and the protection of victims of domestic violence.\n\nMarital rape is not a criminal offence in Niue. A man cannot be convicted of the rape or attempted rape of his wife unless a decree nisi of divorce, decree of nullity, judicial separation, or separation order was in place at the time of the act. Sexual violence against girls is addressed in the Niue Act 1966, which provides that those who have or attempt sexual intercourse with a girl under 15 are liable to terms of imprisonment. Despite this, sexual assault on minors has been reported as occurring “regularly”. Cultural and societal beliefs have the effect of inhibiting the reporting of these offences. Where complaints are lodged, they are frequently subsequently withdrawn or dropped. The introduction of a mandatory reporting obligation on figures of authority, and a “no-drop” policy ensuring cases are not closed prematurely have been touted as possible solutions.\n\nDue to a lack of reproductive health education and the societal attitude that all children are \"blessings and gifts from God\", teen pregnancy is common. Abortion is not currently available in Niue, and its legality is unclear. The Niue Act 1966 provides that it is an offence to “unlawfully procure” or administer an abortion, which suggests that some abortions may be lawful. In particular, the common law defence of necessity could be applicable in the event of endangerment to a woman’s life or health. This remains untested in Court.\n\nIt used to be an offence to be the keeper of a brothel in Niue, as was being a prostitute, but these offences were repealed by the Niue Amendment Act 2007. The minimum age of marriage for females in Niue is 15. The United Nations Committee on the Rights of the Child has recommended raising this to 18, to match the minimum age for males.\n\nSame-sex relationships have been identified by Niue as an issue which “may be the subject of reform” in the coming years.\n\nCurrent Niue law does not make any specific reference to those who identify as lesbian, gay, bisexual or transgender. Same-sex marriage is not recognised and there is no legislation prohibiting discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation or gender identity. Sexual activity between males is criminalised by the Niue Act 1966. Those who commit the offence of “buggery” are liable to imprisonment for 10 years, while “indecent assault” between males carries a potential 5-year term of imprisonment. Consent is no defence to either of these offences. There is no legislation relating to female same-sex sexual conduct.\n\nThere is no provision for a change of sex on official documents under the Births and Deaths Registration Regulations 1984.\n\nThe definition of a child varies greatly under Niue law. Individuals may sue and be sued in infancy, are entitled to drive at age 14, may purchase liquor at 18, and can be adopted up to age 21. Those under 18 are prohibited from permanent employment in the public service, however there is no minimum age to undertake other work. As Niue has no labour law for those employed in the private sector, children who take on employment outside of the public service have no legal protection from poor working conditions or exploitation.\n\nEnrolment and attendance at a school is compulsory for children between the ages of 5 and 16. All education provided by Government schools is free of charge. It is the duty of parents to ensure their child of school age is enrolled and attends school, and failure to do so without excuse or exemption is an offence. In 2011, the enrolment rate of primary and secondary school aged children was 100%.\nThe use of corporal punishment at school is not expressly prohibited by law. Legislation relating to cruel treatment and bodily harm is not interpreted as outlawing corporal punishment. Acceptance of corporal punishment in the home is \"near universal\".\n\nLegislation requires that children with physical or mental disabilities be educated at a \"special school\" or institution, however Niue has no teachers with training in special needs education. Also of concern is reference in the Niue Act 1966 to women and girls who are \"idiots, imbeciles or of unsound mind\", and the lower criminal sanction for those who sexually offend against such individuals.\n\nNiue adopted a National Policy on Disability in 2011.\n\n"}
{"id": "3218907", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3218907", "title": "I Write What I Like", "text": "I Write What I Like\n\nI Write What I Like (full name \"I Write What I Like: Selected Writings by Steve Biko\") is a compilation of writings from anti-apartheid activist Steve Biko.\n\n\"I Write What I Like\" contains a selection of Biko's writings from 1969, when he became the president of the South African Student Organisation, to 1972, when he was prohibited from publishing. Originally published in 1978, the book was republished in 1987 and April 2002. The book's title was taken from the title under which he had published his writings in the SASO newsletter under the pseudonym Frank Talk.\n\n\"I Write What I Like\" reflects Biko's conviction that black people in South Africa could not be liberated until they united to break their chains of servitude, a key tenet of the Black Consciousness Movement that he helped found.\n\nThe collection was edited by Aelred Stubbs. The book includes a preface by Archbishop Desmond Tutu; an introduction by Malusi and Thoko Mpumlwana, who were both involved with Biko in the Black Consciousness Movement; a memoir of Biko by Father Aelred Stubbs, his longtime pastor and friend; and a new foreword by Professor Lewis Gordon.\n"}
{"id": "7739700", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7739700", "title": "Indira Gandhi Prize", "text": "Indira Gandhi Prize\n\nThe Indira Gandhi Prize or the Indira Gandhi Peace Prize or the Indira Gandhi Prize for Peace, Disarmament and Development is the prestigious award accorded annually by Indira Gandhi Memorial Trust to individuals or organisations in recognition of creative efforts toward promoting international peace, development and a new international economic order; ensuring that scientific discoveries are used for the larger good of humanity, and enlarging the scope of freedom. The prize carries a cash award of 2.5 million Indian rupees and a citation. A written work, in order to be eligible for consideration, should have been published. The panel constituted by the Indira Gandhi Memorial Trust consists of prominent national and international personalities including previous recipients. The recipients are chosen from a pool of national and international nominees.\n\n"}
{"id": "106200", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=106200", "title": "Kibbutz", "text": "Kibbutz\n\nA kibbutz ( / , lit. \"gathering, clustering\"; regular plural kibbutzim / ) is a collective community in Israel that was traditionally based on agriculture. The first kibbutz, established in 1909, was Degania. Today, farming has been partly supplanted by other economic branches, including industrial plants and high-tech enterprises. Kibbutzim began as utopian communities, a combination of socialism and Zionism. In recent decades, some kibbutzim have been privatized and changes have been made in the communal lifestyle. A member of a kibbutz is called a \"kibbutznik\" ( / ; plural \"kibbutznikim\" or \"kibbutzniks\").\n\nIn 2010, there were 270 kibbutzim in Israel. Their factories and farms account for 9% of Israel's industrial output, worth US$8 billion, and 40% of its agricultural output, worth over $1.7 billion. Some kibbutzim had also developed substantial high-tech and military industries. For example, in 2010, Kibbutz Sasa, containing some 200 members, generated $850 million in annual revenue from its military-plastics industry.\n\nCurrently the kibbutzim are organised in the secular Kibbutz Movement with some 230 kibbutzim, the Religious Kibbutz Movement with 16 kibbutzim and the much smaller religious Poalei Agudat Yisrael with two kibbutzim, all part of the wider communal settlement movement.\n\nThe kibbutzim were founded by members of the Bilu movement who emigrated to Palestine. Like the members of the First Aliyah who came before them and established agricultural villages, most members of the Second Aliyah planned to become farmers; almost the sole career available in the agrarian economy of Ottoman Palestine. The first kibbutz was Degania Alef, founded in 1909.\n\nJoseph Baratz, one of the pioneers of the kibbutz movement, wrote a book about his experiences.\n\nThough Baratz and others wanted to farm the land themselves, becoming independent farmers was not a realistic option in 1909. As Arthur Ruppin, a proponent of Jewish agricultural colonization of the Trans-Jordan would later say, \"The question was not whether group settlement was preferable to individual settlement; it was rather one of either group settlement or no settlement at all.\"\n\nOttoman Palestine was a harsh environment. The Galilee was swampy, the Judaean Mountains rocky, and the south of the country, the Negev, was a desert. To make things more challenging, most of the settlers had no prior farming experience. The sanitary conditions were also poor. Malaria, typhus and cholera were rampant. Bedouins would raid farms and settled areas. Sabotage of irrigation canals and burning of crops were also common. Living collectively was simply the most logical way to be secure in an unwelcoming land. On top of safety considerations, establishing a farm was a capital-intensive project; collectively, the founders of the kibbutzim had the resources to establish something lasting, while independently they did not.\n\nFinally, the land had been purchased by the greater Jewish community. From around the world, Jews dropped coins into Jewish National Fund \"Blue Boxes\" for land purchases in Palestine. In 1909, Baratz, nine other men, and two women established themselves at the southern end of the Sea of Galilee near the Arab village of Umm Juni/Juniya. These teenagers had hitherto worked as day laborers converting wetlands for human development, as masons, or as hands at the older Jewish settlements. Their dream was now to work for themselves, building up the land. They called their community \"Kvutzat Degania\" (lit. \"collective of wheat\" or \"community of cereal grains\"), now Degania Alef.\n\nThe founders of Degania endured backbreaking labor: \"The body is crushed, the legs fail, the head hurts, the sun burns and weakens,\" wrote one of the pioneers. At times, half of the kibbutz members could not report for work and many left. Despite the difficulties, by 1914, Degania had fifty members. Other kibbutzim were founded around the Sea of Galilee and the nearby Jezreel Valley.\n\nThe fall of the Ottoman Empire at the end of World War I, followed by the arrival of the British, brought with it benefits for the Jewish community of Palestine and its kibbutzim. The Ottoman authorities had made immigration to Palestine difficult and restricted land purchases. Rising antisemitism forced many Jews to flee Eastern Europe. To escape the pogroms, tens of thousands of Russian Jews immigrated to Palestine in the early 1920s, in a wave of immigration that was called the Third Aliyah.\n\nZionist Jewish youth movements flourished in the 1920s, from right-wing movements like Betar to left-wing socialist groups such as Dror, Brit Haolim, Qadima, HabBonim (now Habonim Dror), and Hashomer Hatzair. In contrast to those who came as part of the Second Aliyah, these youth group members had some agricultural training before embarking. Members of the Second Aliyah and Third Aliyah were also less likely to be Russian, since emigration from Russia was closed off after the Russian Revolution. European Jews who settled on kibbutzim between the World Wars were from other countries in Eastern Europe, including Germany.\n\nIn the early days, communal meetings were limited to practical matters, but in the 1920s and 1930s, they became more informal. Instead of meeting in the dining room, the group would sit around a campfire. Rather than reading minutes, the session would begin with a group dance. Remembering her youth on a kibbutz on the shores of the Kinneret, one woman said: \"Oh, how beautiful it was when we all took part in the discussions, [they were] nights of searching for one another—that is what I call those hallowed nights. During the moments of silence, it seemed to me that from each heart a spark would burst forth, and the sparks would unite in one great flame penetrating the heavens... At the center of our camp a fire burns, and under the weight of the hora the earth groans a rhythmic groan, accompanied by wild songs\".\n\nKibbutzim founded in the 1920s tended to be larger than the kibbutzim like Degania that were founded prior to World War I. Degania had had twelve members at its founding. Eyn Harod, founded only a decade later, began with 215 members.\n\nKibbutzim grew and flourished in the 1930s and 1940s. In 1922, there were 700 people living on kibbutzim in Palestine. By 1927, the number had risen to 2,000. When World War II erupted, 24,105 people were living on 79 kibbutzim, comprising 5% of the Jewish population of Mandate Palestine. In 1950, the figures went up to 65,000, accounting for 7.5% of the population. In 1989, the kibbutz population peaked at 129,000. By 2010, the number decreased to about 100,000; the number of kibbutzim in Israel was 270.\n\nIn 1927, the United Kibbutz Movement was established. Several Hashomer Hatzair kibbutzim banded together to form Kibbutz Artzi. In 1936, Socialist League of Palestine was founded, and served as an urban ally of HaKibbutz HaArtzi. In 1946, HaKibbutz HaArtzi and the Socialist League combined to form the Hashomer Hatzair Workers Party of Palestine which in 1948, merged with Ahdut HaAvoda to form the left-wing Mapam party.\nIn 1928, Degania and other small kibbutzim formed \"Hever Hakvutzot\" (\"The Kvutzot Association\"). Kvutzot were deliberately small, not exceeding 200 members, in the belief that this was imperative for maintaining trust. Kvutzot did not have youth-group affiliations in Europe. Kibbutzim affiliated with the United Kibbutz Movement took in as many members as they could. Givat Brenner eventually came to have more than 1,500 members. Artzi kibbutzim were also more devoted to gender equality than other kibbutzim. Women called their husbands \"ishi\" (\"my man\") rather than the customary Hebrew word for husband \"ba'ali\" (lit. \"my master\"). The children slept in children's houses and visited their parents only a few hours a day.\n\nThere were also differences in religion. Kibbutz Artzi and United Kibbutz Movement kibbutzim were secular, even staunchly atheistic, proudly trying to be \"monasteries without God\". Most mainstream kibbutznikim also disdained the Orthodox Judaism of their parents, but they wanted their new communities to have Jewish characteristics nonetheless. Friday nights were still Shabbat with a white tablecloth and fine food and work was not done on Saturday if it could be avoided. Only late some kibbutzim adopted Yom Kippur as the day to discuss fears for the future of the kibbutz. Kibbutzim also had collective Bar and Bat Mitzvahs for their children.\n\nKibbutznikim did not pray several times a day, but would mark holidays like Shavuot, Sukkot, and Passover with dances, meals, and celebrations. One Jewish holiday, Tu BiShvat, the \"birthday of the trees\" was substantially revived by kibbutzim. All in all, holidays with some kind of agricultural component, like Passover and Sukkot, were the most significant for kibbutzim.\n\nReligious kibbutzim were established in clusters before the establishment of the State, creating the Religious Kibbutz Movement. The first religious kibbutz was Ein Tzurim, founded in 1946.\n\nArab opposition increased as the Balfour Declaration and the wave of Jewish settlers to Palestine began to tilt the demographic balance of the area. There were bloody anti-Arab and anti-Jewish riots in Jerusalem in 1921 and in Hebron in 1929. In the late 1930s, Arab–Jewish violence became virtually constant; the 1936–39 Arab revolt in Palestine is also known as the \"Great Uprising\" in Palestinian historiography.\n\nKibbutzim began to assume a more prominent military role. Rifles were purchased or manufactured and kibbutz members drilled and practiced shooting. Yigal Allon, an Israeli soldier and statesman, explained the role of kibbutzim in the military activities of the Yishuv:\n\nKibbutzim also played a role in defining the borders of the Jewish state-to-be. By the late 1930s, when it appeared that Palestine would be partitioned between Arabs and Jews, kibbutzim were established in outlying areas to ensure that the land would be incorporated into the Jewish state. In 1946, on the day after Yom Kippur, eleven new \"Tower and Stockade\" kibbutzim were hurriedly established in the northern part of the Negev to give Israel a better claim to this arid, but strategically important, region. The Marxist faction of the kibbutz movement, Kibbutz Artzi, favoured a one-state solution over partition, but advocated free Jewish immigration, which the Arabs opposed.\n\nKibbutzniks fought in the 1948 Arab–Israeli War, emerging from the conflict with enhanced prestige in the nascent State of Israel. Members of Kibbutz Degania were instrumental in stopping the Syrian tank advance into the Galilee with Molotov cocktails. Maagan Michael manufactured the bullets for the Sten guns that won the war. Maagan Michael's clandestine ammunition factory was later separated from the kibbutz and grew into Israel Military Industries.\n\nThe establishment of Israel and the flood of Jewish refugees from Europe and the Arab world presented challenges and opportunities for kibbutzim. The immigrant tide offered kibbutzim a chance to expand through new members and inexpensive labour, but it also meant that Ashkenazi kibbutzim would have to adapt to Jews whose background was far different from their own. Until the 1950s, nearly all kibbutzniks were from Eastern Europe, culturally different from the Jews of Morocco, Tunisia, and Iraq. Many kibbutzim hired Mizrahi Jews as labourers but were less inclined to grant them membership.\n\nIdeological disputes were also widespread, leading to painful splits, sometimes even of individual kibbutzim, and to polarisation and animosity among members. Israel had been initially recognized by both the United States and the Soviet Union. For the first three years of its existence, Israel was in the Non-Aligned Movement, but David Ben-Gurion gradually began to take sides with the West. The question of which side of the Cold War Israel should choose created fissures in the kibbutz movement. Dining halls segregated according to politics and a few kibbutzim even had Marxist members leave. The disillusionment particularly set in after the Slánský trial in which an envoy of Hashomer Hatzair in Prague was tried.\n\nAnother controversy involved the Reparations Agreement between Israel and West Germany. Should kibbutz members turn over income that was the product of a very personal loss? If Holocaust survivors were allowed to keep their reparation money, what would that mean for the principle of equality? Eventually, many kibbutzim made this one concession to inequality by letting Holocaust survivors keep all or a percentage of their reparations. Reparations that were turned over to the collective were used for building expansion and even recreational activities.\n\nThe split between different factions within the kibbutz movement evolved between 1948 and 1954, when finally three kibbutz federations emerged, each aligned to a different Labour party: Ihud with Mapai, Meuhad with Ahdut HaAvoda, and Artzi with Mapam.\n\nKibbutzniks enjoyed a steady and gradual improvement in their standard of living in the first few decades after independence. In the 1960s, the kibbutzim standard of living improved faster than Israel's general population. Most kibbutz swimming pools date from the 1960s.\n\nKibbutzim also continued to play an outsize role in Israel's defence apparatus. In the 1950s and 1960s many kibbutzim were in fact founded by an Israel Defense Forces group called Nahal. Many of these 1950s and 1960s Nahal kibbutzim were founded on the precarious and porous borders of the state. In the Six-Day War, when Israel lost 800 soldiers, 200 of them were from kibbutzim. The prestige that kibbutzniks enjoyed in Israel in the 1960s was reflected in the Knesset. When only 4% of Israelis were kibbutzniks, kibbutzniks made up 15% of Israel's parliament.\n\nAs late as the 1970s, kibbutzim seemed to be thriving in every way. Kibbutzniks performed working-class, or even peasant-class, occupations, yet enjoyed a middle-class lifestyle.\n\nWith time, the kibbutz members' sense of identification with the kibbutz and its goals decreased. This process originated both from personal frustrations among the kibbutz members as a result of internal processes and from the growing stratification and inequality due to the growth of capitalistic practices. Over the years, some kibbutz members established professional careers outside the kibbutz, accumulating power, privileges and prestige. The balance between individual values and values of the kibbutz began to tip, and work motivation was affected. An emphasis was placed on social compensation to encourage productivity. These processes occurred in parallel with a severe economic crisis.\n\nDuring the 1980s, following the peak of the kibbutzim crisis, many people started leaving their kibbutzim, and there was considerable tension due to the economic situation. In order to cope with the situation, some kibbutzim began to change in various ways.\n\nThe changes that occurred could be divided into three main types:\n\nSince the mid-1990s, the number of kibbutzim making significant changes in their lifestyle has continued to grow, while the resistance to these changes has gradually decreased, with only a few dozen kibbutzim still functioning under more traditional models. It is important to note, however, that each kibbutz has undergone different processes of change. There are many people, outside and inside the kibbutzim, who claim these changes bring the end of the kibbutz concept. Among the communities that had recently officially ceased being kibbutzim are Megiddo in the Jezreel Valley, HagGoshrim in the Upper Galilee, Beyt Nir in the Negev, etc.\n\nThese processes have created the \"renewing kibbutz\" (הקיבוץ המתחדש )—a kibbutz settlement pattern not fully based on the original values of the kibbutz. Kibbutzim continuing under the original kibbutz values are associated with the \"collaborative model\" (הזרם השיתופי).\n\nThere are now three kibbutz compensation models. 1) The traditional collective \"kibbutz/kibbutz shitufi\", in which members are compensated equally, regardless of what work each member does; 2) the mixed model \"kibbutz/kibbutz meshulav\", in which each member is given a small percentage of his salary along with a basic component given equally to all kibbutz members; and 3) the renewing \"kibbutz/kibbutz mithadesh\", in which a member's income consists solely of his individual income from his work and sometimes includes income from other kibbutz sources.\n\nAccording to a survey conducted by the University of Haifa 188 of all kibbutzim (72%) are now converted to the \"renewing kibbutz\" model, which could be described as more individualistic kibbutz. Dr. Shlomo Getz, head of the Institute for the Research of the Kibbutz and the Cooperative Idea believes that by the end of 2012, there will be more kibbutzim switching to some alternative model.\n\nFirst Aliyah immigrants were largely religious, but those of the Second Aliyah were mainly secular. A Jewish work ethic thus replaced religious practice. Berl Katznelson, a Labor Zionist leader articulated this when he said \"Everywhere the Jewish labourer goes, the divine presence goes with him.\"\n\nIn the contemporary Yiddish anti-Zionist literature that was circulating around Eastern Europe, Palestine was mocked as \"dos gepeygerte land\", \"the country that had died\". Kibbutz members found immense gratification in bringing the land back to life by planting trees, draining swamps, and countless other hard-graft activities to make the land (invariably wetlands) productive. In soliciting donations, kibbutzim and other Zionist settlement activities presented themselves as \"making the desert bloom\".\n\nThe first kibbutzim were founded in the upper Jordan Valley, the Jezreel Valley and the Sharon coastal plain. The land was available for purchase because it was marshy and malaria-infested. The Zionists believed that the Arab population would be grateful for the economic benefits that developing the land would bring. Their approach was that the enemies of the Arab peasants were the Arab landowners (called \"effendis\"), not fellow Jewish farmers. The first kibbutzniks hoped to be more than farmers. They sought to create a new type of society where all would be equal and free from exploitation. \n\nKibbutz members were not classic Marxists though their system partially resembled Communism. Karl Marx and Friedrich Engels both shared a disdain for conventional formulations of the nation state and Leninists were hostile to Zionism. Nevertheless, in the late 1930s, two kibbutz leaders, Tabenkin and Yaari, initially attracted to anarchist ideas, pushed their movements to reverence of Stalin's dictatorship and of Stalin whom many called Shemesh HaAmim (\"The Sun of the Nations\").\n\nThe USSR voted at the UN for establishment of Israel. When it became apparent that Israel would not turn Communist Stalin became hostile to Israel and the USSR served diplomatic and military interests in the Arab world. This caused major crises and mass exit in both Kibbutz Meuchad and Kibbutz Artzi kibbutzim, especially after the 1952 Rudolf Slánský Prague show trials in which most of the accused and executed party functionaries were Jews and the 1953 Doctors' plot in Moscow of mostly Jews. Nonetheless many kibbutzim cancelled Purim celebrations when Stalin collapsed on March 1, 1953. Despite Communist atrocities and increasing state antisemitism in the USSR and its satellites many in the far left kibbutz movement, like Hashomer Hatzair (The Young Guard) viewed Stalin with awe and leader of the \"peace camp\". The party paper Al HaMishmar (On the Watch) presented this view.\n\nKibbutzim were run as collective enterprises within Israel's partly free market system. Internally kibbutzim also practiced active democracy, with elections held for kibbutz functions and full participation in national elections in which the members generally voted along the lines of the kibbutz movement ideology. Jewish religious practices were banned or discouraged in many far left kibbutzim.\n\nKibbutzim were not the only contemporary communal enterprises: pre-war Palestine also saw the development of communal villages called moshavim. In a moshav, marketing and major farm purchases were collective, but other aspects of life were private. \n\nIn 2009, most votes from kibbutzim went to Kadima, Labor, and Meretz.\n\nThe principle of equality was taken extremely seriously up until the 1970s. Kibbutzniks did not individually own tools, or even clothing. Gifts and income received from outside were turned over to the common treasury. If a member received a gift in services—like a visit to a relative or a trip abroad paid for by a parent—there could be arguments at members' meetings about the propriety of accepting such a gift. Up until recently, members ate meals together in the communal dining hall. This was seen as an important aspect of communal life.\n\nWhen the first children were born at the kibbutz there were inevitably some ethical dilemmas that needed to be solved. One of these was that the kibbutz was striving for equality, including the equality of the sexes. Women were only seen as separate because they gave birth to children, automatically tying them to the domestic sphere. In order to liberate women and promote gender equality, they could not be tied to solely domestic duties and child care giving. The Kibbutz wanted to give women the opportunity to continue their work in the agricultural sector and industrial sector. As such, \"Communal education is the first step towards woman's liberation.\" Chayuta Bussel\n\nAlong with gender equality, the issue of parenting under the communal way of life was a concern. The parental tendency is to view the child as a personal possession and to dominate them. The founding members of the kibbutz agreed that this was not conducive to community life. They also thought it was selfish of parents to want to control their children and that this did not give room for the child to grow as their own person.\n\nTo solve these issues the founders created the communal children's houses, where the children would spend most of their time; learning, playing and sleeping. Parents spent three to four hours a day in the afternoon with their children after work and before dinner.\n\nCollective childrearing was also a way to escape the patriarchal society that the founders came from. Children would not be dependent on their fathers economically, socially, legally or otherwise and this would eliminate the father's authority and uproot the patriarchy.\n\nIn the children's houses, trained nurses and teachers were the care givers. It was felt that relationships of the children and their parents would be better because parents would not have to be the sole disciplinarians. Children grew up in the community environment and grew up with children who were born in the same year as them. The financial responsibility of the children was shared by the community.\n\nThe founders of the Kibbutz sought a dynamic education for their children, that can be summed up in this statement from the founders of Kibbutz Degania\nFrom formal education to knowledge acquired from life, From the book to the physical work. From a discipline based on blind obedience to a regime of activity and creation in an atmosphere of freedom.\n\nThe adults in the community did their best to make the children's house into a children's home. They fully furnished them to accommodate every age group. \"It is surrounded by a courtyard, well equipped for the growing child's needs, with flowers and bushes, hiding places, and playgrounds.\"\n\nUnder Freud's influence, the importance of the early years of childhood development were understood by the Kibbutz and much emphasis was put on fostering the child's sense of individuality, creativity, and basic trust. In practice transmission of family traditions and views was replaced by indoctrination into kibbutz and kibbutz movement views and also resulted in much uniformity vs. individuality. Significantly, this method of child rearing was not only \"collectivization\" of children, but a near complete conscious break with a cornerstone of Jewish life: focus on family, especially the nuclear family.\n\nAlthough, for many of the original founders of the Kibbutz, the arrival of children was a sobering experience: \"When we saw our first children in the playpen, hitting one another, or grabbing toys just for themselves, we were overcome with anxiety. What did it mean that even an education in communal life couldn't uproot these egotistical tendencies? The utopia of our initial social conception was slowly, slowly destroyed.\"\n\nFrom the 1920s until the 1970s, most kibbutzim had a system whereby the children would sleep in communal children's homes, called 'Beit Yeladim' (בית ילדים), instead of in their parents' apartments.\nAlthough the children were not raised directly by their parents, they knew who their parents were and formed close bonds with them. Throughout the morning, parents looked forward to the end of the work day when they could go to the children's house and pick up the children to play with them and dote on them.\n\nChildren's societies were one of the features of kibbutz life that most interested outsiders. In the heyday of children's societies, parents would only spend two hours a day, typically in the afternoon, with their children. In Kibbutz Artzi parents were explicitly forbidden to put their children to bed at night. As children got older, parents could go for days on end without seeing their offspring, other than through chance encounters somewhere in the grounds.\n\nSome children who went through children's societies said they loved the experience, others remain ambivalent. One vocal group maintains that growing up without one's parents was very difficult. Years later, a kibbutz member described her childhood in a children's society:\n\n\"Allowed to suckle every four hours, left to cry and develop our lungs, we grew up without the basic security needed for survival. Sitting on the potty at regular intervals next to other children doing the same, we were educated to be the same; but we were, for all that, different... At night the grownups leave and turn off all the lights. You know you will wet the bed because it is too frightening to go to the lavatory.\"\nExamples of children raised under the Kibbutz system of equality are given by Yosef Criden. When an aunt from a nearby city comes to visit her niece or nephew and brings a box of chocolate as a present for them, the child will excitedly open it up and eat a few of the chocolates. Then the child will go over to the rest of the group and give the rest of the chocolates to their peers. This is the ideology instilled in the children, to value the self but also to always think about others. Another example Yosef gives is that when his son, who was born and raised on a kibbutz, went into the army, he and his fellow bunk mates asked their supervising officer for a box. They wanted to keep the box in the middle of the room and whenever they would get care packages, they would put the items into the box and share them communally. They did not want to be like most of the units of officers from towns and cities, where each officer would hide their packages under their beds.\n\nIn a 1977 study, Fox compared the separation effects experienced by kibbutz children when removed from their mother, compared with removal from their caregiver (called a \"metapelet\" in Hebrew). He found that the child showed separation distress in both situations but, when reunited, children were significantly more attached to their mothers than to the \"metapelet\". The children protested subsequent separation from their mothers when the \"metapelet\" was reintroduced to them. However, kibbutzim children shared high bonding with their parents as compared to those who were sent to boarding schools, because children in a kibbutz spent three to four hours with their parents every day.\n\nIn another study by Scharf, the group brought up in a communal environment within a kibbutz showed less ability in coping with imagined situations of separation than those who were brought up with their families. This has far reaching implications for child attachment adaptability and therefore institutions like kibbutzim. These interesting kibbutz techniques are controversial with or without these studies.\n\nA mixture of criticism and nostalgia by some 20 adults born in Kibbutzim in the 1930s was documented in the 2007 film \"Children of the Sun\". The film raised much controversy and brought about a flood of reactions in favor and against the practices of child raising in Kibbutzim in those early years of the Kibbutz. Interviews were interlaced with original footage.\n\nIn the beginning, higher education was not valued as very important to the Kibbutz as most of the work was in agriculture. As the kibbutz changed and moved towards manufacturing and industry, more young people went to universities and colleges to pursue higher education. The total percentage of members studying at universities among kibbutz students rose from 38 percent in 1978 to 54 percent [in 1990]. Originally the Kibbutz paid college tuition in full, but in the 1980s with the kibbutz crisis, some began to pay a smaller share of tuition costs.\n\nThe role of gender equality on the kibbutz is very complex and has gone through cycles since the founding of the first kibbutzim. Since there were many different kibbutzim, women had different experiences at each particular one. Some say that women were and are completely equal to men on the kibbutz while others insist there has always been inequality.\n\nIn the early days of the movement, kibbutzim tended to be male-dominated with significantly more male members. Nevertheless, women performed many of the same tasks as men. Both men and women worked in the fields, performed guard duty, and heavy labor. However, mostly women filled the traditional female roles, such as cooking, sewing, and cleaning.\n\nIn the first couple of decades there was no traditional marriage in the kibbutz. If a man and woman wanted to get married, they went to the housing office and requested a room together. Not having traditional marriage was seen as a way to dissolve the patriarchy and give women their own standing without depending on a man (economically or socially) and was also viewed as a positive thing for the community as a whole, as communal life was the main aspect of the kibbutz.\n\nWhen the first children were born at the kibbutz, the founders were worried that this would tie the women to domestic service. They thought that the only difference between a man and a woman was that women gave birth and thus were automatically tied to the children and domestic duties. The communal dining and laundry were already a part of the kibbutz from the start. Of course they were implemented for reasons of living communally, but also to emancipate women from these duties so they were free to work in other sectors. With the arrival of the children, it was decided that they would be raised communally and sleep communally to free women to work in other fields. The desire to liberate women from traditional maternal duties was an ideological underpinning of the children's society system. Women were \"emancipated from the yoke of domestic service\" in that their children were taken care of, and the laundry and cooking was done communally.\n\nWomen born on kibbutzim were much less reluctant to perform traditional female roles. Eventually most women gravitated towards the service sector. The second generation of women who were born on the kibbutz eventually got rid of the children's houses and the Societies of Children. Most found that although they had a positive experience growing up in the children's house, wanted their own children at home with them.\n\nThe documentary 'Full Circle' summarizes the change in the women's view of equality on the kibbutz. The original Utopian goal of the founders was complete gender equality. Children lived in the children's houses. Freed from domestic duties, women participated in the industrial, agricultural and economic sectors alongside men. However, in the 1960s, while the rest of the Western world demanded equality of the sexes and embraced feminism, the second generation of kibbutz born women began to return to more traditional gender roles. They rejected the ideal achieved by their grandparents and returned to domestic duties such as cooking, cleaning and taking care of children. Today, most women do not participate in the economic and industrial sectors of the kibbutz. They even embraced traditional marriage.\n\nAnother example of the change in the original egalitarian nature of the kibbutz is that the founders of the kibbutz did not use the traditional Hebrew word for husband, \"ba'al\" (בעל, BAH-al), because the word is otherwise used to mean \"master\" or \"owner\" and implies that the wife is submissive to her dominant spouse. The granddaughters of the founders use ba'al for husband to their grandmother's disgust. The granddaughters insist the grandparents are too caught up with terminology. The original egalitarian principles of gender equality have been compromised.\n\nStatistical data proves that the majority of women work in the service and domestic sectors while men work in the production sector. According to data from the 1940s, gender equality existed neither in the domain of work nor in the area of politics in the kibbutzim of the time. For instance, in 1948, in eight kibbutzim of the Ihud, a kibbutz federation with a pragmatic socialist orientation, 78.3 percent of the women worked in services (services for adults, child care, education) as compared with 16.7 percent of the men. That same year, 15.2 percent of the women worked in production as distinct from 58.2 percent of the men. The situation was the same in political life.\n\nBy 1979, only 9 percent of the women were engaged in some type of farming activity. \"[In 1979] only 12 percent of the female labor force is permanently assigned to productive branches, compared to 50 percent in 1920.\" Females comprise 84 percent of the service workers and the educational workers.\n\nAlso, although there was a \"masculinization of women\" at one point, there was no corresponding \"feminization\" of men. Women may have worked the fields, but men did not work in childcare.\n\nAlong with property and ideology, social lives were also held in common. As an example, most kibbutz dining halls exclusively utilized benches, not as an issue of cost or convenience, but because benches were construed as another way of expressing communal values. In the beginning, some kibbutzim husbands and wives were discouraged from sitting together, as marriage was an expressed form of exclusivity.\nIn \"The Kibbutz Community and Nation Building,\" Paula Rayman reports that Kibbutz Har refused to buy teakettles for its members in the 1950s; the issue being not the cost but that couples owning teakettles would mean more time spent together in their apartments, rather than with the community in the dining hall.\n\nIn the beginning, members were not allowed individual items, like teakettles and everything was strictly communal. Starting around the 1950s and 1960s, people were entitled to individual property, like teakettles, books, radios etc. According to Criden and Gelb \"The equality problem only becomes serious when there are gross deviations from basic principles.\" Having a few books was fine, but having a private car was unacceptable. Items like cars were communally owned and had to be requested in advance by members or used for work related duties.\n\nCommunal life proved hard for some. Every kibbutz saw some new members quit after a few years. Since kibbutzniks had no individual bank accounts, any purchase not made at the kibbutz canteen had to be approved by a committee, a potentially humiliating and time-wasting experience.\nKibbutzim also had their share of members who were not hard workers, or who abused common property; there would always be resentment against these \"parasites\". Although according to Criden and Gelb, the vast majority of people on kibbutzim are not free-loaders. They state that their chief weapon against free-loaders is public opinion. People who do not pull their own weight in the community are frowned upon and their opinions are not taken seriously by the community and they are not given any responsibility.\nFinally, kibbutzim, as small, isolated communities, tended to be places of gossip, exacerbated by lack of privacy and the regimented work and leisure schedules.\n\nAlthough major decisions about the future of the kibbutz were made by consensus or by voting, day-to-day decisions about where people would work were made by elected leaders. Typically, kibbutzniks would learn their assignments by consulting the duty sheet at the dining hall.\n\nKibbutz memoirs from the Pioneer era report that kibbutz meetings varied from heated arguments to free-flowing philosophical discussions, whereas memoirs and accounts from kibbutz observers from the 1950s and 1960s report that kibbutz meetings were businesslike but poorly attended.\n\nKibbutzim attempted to rotate people into different jobs. One week a person might work in planting, the next with livestock, the week after in the kibbutz factory and the following week in the laundry. Even managers would have to work in menial jobs. Through rotation, people took part in every kind of work, but it interfered with any process of specialization.\n\nAversion to sex was not part of the kibbutz ideology; to this end, teenagers were not segregated at night in children's societies, yet many visitors to kibbutzim were astonished at how conservative the communities tended to be. In \"Children of the Dream\", Bruno Bettelheim quoted a kibbutz friend, \"at a time when the American girls preen themselves, and try to show off as much as possible sexually, our girls cover themselves up and refuse to wear clothing that might show their breasts or in any other fashion be revealing.\"\nKibbutz divorce rates were and are extremely low. Unfortunately from the point of view of the adults in the community, marriage rates among communally raised children were equally low. This conservatism on the part of kibbutz children has been attributed to the Westermarck effect—a form of reverse sexual imprinting whereby even unrelated children, if raised together from an early age, tend to reject each other as potential partners. The children who grew up together in the children's houses considered their peers brothers and sisters and had close lasting bonds with each other.\n\nFrom the beginning, kibbutzim had a reputation as culture-friendly and nurturing of the arts. Many kibbutzniks became writers, actors, or artists. Kibbutzim typically offer theatre companies, choirs, orchestras, athletic leagues, and special-interest classes. In 1953 Givat Brenner staged the play \"My Glorious Brothers,\" about the Maccabee revolt, building a real village on a hilltop as a set, planting real trees, and performing for 40,000 people. Following kibbutz work practices of the time, all the actors were members of the kibbutz, and all performed as part of their work assignments.\n\nAlthough there have been sensational crimes on kibbutzim, overall the crime rate is lower than the national average by a significant margin.\n\nThree researchers who wrote about psychological life on kibbutzim were Melford E. Spiro (1958), Bruno Bettelheim (1969) and Michael Baizerman (1963). All concluded that a kibbutz upbringing led to individuals' having greater difficulty in making strong emotional commitments thereafter, such as falling in love or forming a lasting friendship. On the other hand, they appear to find it easier to have a large number of less-involved friendships, and a more active social life.\n\nSome researchers came to the conclusion that children growing up in these tightly knit communities tended to see the other children around them as ersatz siblings and preferred to seek mates outside the community when they reached maturity. Some theorize that living amongst one another on a daily basis virtually from birth on produced an extreme version of the Westermarck effect, which diminished teenage kibbutzniks' sexual attraction to one another. Partly as a result of not finding a mate from within the kibbutz, youth often abandon kibbutz life as adults.\n\nThe era of independent Israel kibbutzim attracted interest from sociologists and psychologists who attempted to answer the question: What are the effects of life without private property? What are the effects of life being brought up apart from one's parents?\n\nBettelheim suggested that the lack of private property was the cause of the lack of emotions in kibbutzniks. He wrote, \"nowhere more than in the kibbutz did I realize the degree to which private property, in the deep layers of the mind, relates to private emotions. If one is absent, the other tends to be absent as well\". (See primitivism and primitive communism for a general discussion of these concepts).\n\nIn Kibbutz life, group pressure to conform is particularly strong. It is a subject of debate within the kibbutz movement as to how successful kibbutz education was in developing the talents of gifted children. Several kibbutz-raised children look back and say that the communal system stifled ambition; others say that bright children were nonetheless encouraged. Bruno Bettelheim had predicted that kibbutz education would yield mediocrity: \"[kibbutz children] will not be leaders or philosophers, will not achieve anything in science or art.\" However, it has been noted that although kibbutzim comprise only 5% of the Israeli population, surprisingly large numbers of kibbutzniks become teachers, lawyers, doctors, and political leaders.\n\nIn the 1990s, a journalist tracked down the children Bettelheim had interviewed back in the 1960s at \"Kibbutz Atid\" (now called Kibbutz Ramat Yohanan). The journalist found that the children were highly accomplished in academia, business, music, and the military. \"Bettelheim got it totally wrong.\"\n\nKibbutzim in the early days tried to be self-sufficient in all agricultural goods, from eggs to dairy to fruits to meats, but realized this was not possible. Land was generally provided by the Jewish National Fund. Later, they became dependent on government subsidies.\n\nEven before the establishment of the State of Israel, kibbutzim began to branch out from agriculture into manufacturing. Kibbutz Degania Alef opened a factory for diamond cutting tools that came to have a gross turnover of several US million dollars a year. Kibbutz Hatzerim has a factory for drip irrigation equipment. Netafim is a multinational corporation that grosses over $300 million a year. Maagan Michael branched out from making bullets to making plastics and medical tools, and running an ulpan. These enterprises bring in over US$100 million a year. A great wave of kibbutz industrialization came in the 1960s, and only 15% of kibbutz members worked in agriculture.\n\nHiring seasonal workers was always a point of controversy in the kibbutz movement. During harvest time, when hands were needed, labourers were sought outside the kibbutz. The founders of the kibbutz movement wanted to redeem the Jewish nation through manual labour, and hiring non-Jews to do hard tasks was not consistent with that idea. In the 1910s Kibbutz Degania vainly searched for Jewish masons to build their homes, but could not find Jewish stonemasons, and hired Arabs.\n\nIn the 1970s kibbutzim frequently hired Arab labourers. From the 1990s, teams of foreign workers were brought in, many from Thailand and China.\n\nKibbutzim have branched out into tourism, among them Kiryat Anavim, Lavi and Nahsholim. Many kibbutzim rent out homes or run guesthouses. Several kibbutzim, such as Kibbutz Lotan and Kfar Ruppin, operate bird-watching vacations and eco tours. These tours showcase their development of sustainable technologies such as mud huts and compostable toilets.\n\nToday, some Kibbutzim operate major industrial ventures. For example, in 2010, Kibbutz Sasa, containing some 200 members, generated $850 million in annual revenue from its military-plastics industry. Kibbutz Ketura is leading Israel's development of solar technology, becoming a popular eco tourism attraction.\n\nThere are three kibbutz movements:\n\nMany kibbutzim were initially established by Nahal groups affiliated with Israeli youth movements, among them HaNoar HaOved VeHaLomed, Hashomer Hatzair and HaMachanot HaOlim.\n\nFollowing many changes the kibbutzim went through during the years and following the appeal made to Israeli High Court of Justice by the Mizrahi Democratic Rainbow Coalition in 2001 in which the state was required to redefine the exact definition of a kibbutz in order to define the rightful benefits the kibbutzim members should be granted by law. The reactivated legal definition was given to the Industry, Trade and Labour Minister of Israel on the December 15, 2005 (תקנות סיווג הקיבוצים). According to this classification there are three types of kibbutzim:\n\nSome kibbutzim have been involved in legal actions related to their status as kibbutzim. Kibbutz Glil Yam, near Herzliya, petitioned the court regarding privatization. In 1999, eight members of kibbutz Beit Oren applied to the High Court of Justice to order the registrar of cooperative societies to declassify Beit Oren as a kibbutz and reclassify it as a different kind of cooperative society. The petitioners argued that the Kibbutz had dramatically changed its life style, having implemented differential salaries, closing the communal dining room, and privatizing the educational system and other services. These changes did not fit the legal definition of a kibbutz, and in particular, the principle of equality in consumption. Consequently, the registrar of cooperative societies, who has the authority to register and classify cooperative societies, should change the classification of kibbutz Beit Oren. The kibbutz responded that it still maintained the basic principles of a kibbutz, but the changes made were vital to prevent a financial collapse and to improve the economic situation.\n\nThis case resulted in the Government establishing the \"Ben-Rafael Committee\" chaired by Tel Aviv University professor Eliezer Ben-Rafael to recommend a new legal definitions that will suit the development of the kibbutz, and to submit an opinion on the allocation of apartments to kibbutz members. The committee submitted a detailed report with two new legal classifications to the settlements known today as kibbutzim. The first classification was named 'communal kibbutz', identical to the traditional definition of a kibbutz. The second classification was called the 'renewing kibbutz' and included developments and changes in lifestyle, provided that the basic principles of mutual guarantee and equality are preserved. In light of the above, the committee recommended that instead of the current legal definition of kibbutz, two different determinations will be created, as follows, a) \"communal kibbutz\": a society for settlement, being a separate settlement, organized on the basis of collective ownership of possession, of self-employment, and of equality and cooperation in production, consumption and education, b) \"renewing kibbutz\": a society for settlement, being a separate settlement, organized on the basis of collective partnership in possession, of self-employment, and of equality and cooperation in production, consumption and education, that maintains mutual guarantee among its members, and its articles of association includes, some or all of the following:\nThe recommendations were accepted by Cabinet of Israel in 2004.\n\nIn his history of Palestine under the British Mandate, \"One Palestine, Complete\", \"New Historian\" Tom Segev wrote of the kibbutz movement:\n\nAs against this characterization, numerous students found kibbutzim played major role in agricultural innovation that advanced the Israeli agriculture to leading the world in some sectors, for instance irrigation. In later era many of their factories led Israeli efforts to gain economic independence by production for export, while their political involvement was of major importance up to 1948. The Kibbutz Meuchad and Kibbutz Artzi menaced Ben-Gurion's dominance of Yishuv politics in the 1940s, but they failed gaining wide public support in Israeli elections ever since 1949 because of reverence of Stalin's dictatorship, which most Israelis denounced. Kibbutzim have been criticized for falling short of living up to their own ideals. Most kibbutzim are not self-sufficient and have to employ non-kibbutz members as farm workers (or later factory workers). What was particularly controversial was the employment of Arab labourers while excluding them from the possibility of joining the Kibbutz as full members.\n\nSome kibbutzim have been criticized for \"abandoning\" socialist principles and turning to capitalist projects in order to make the kibbutz more self-sufficient economically. Kibbutz Shamir owns an optical products company that is listed on the NASDAQ stock exchange. Numerous kibbutzim have moved away from farming and developed parts of their property for commercial and industrial purposes, building shopping malls and factories on kibbutz land that serve and employ non kibbutz members while the kibbutz retains a profit from land rentals or sales. Conversely, kibbutzim that have not engaged in this sort of development have also been criticized for becoming dependent on state subsidies to survive.\n\nNonetheless, kibbutzniks played a role in yishuv society and then Israeli society, far out of proportion to their population, and many kibbutzniks have served Israel in positions of leadership. The invention of the Tower and Stockade system by which 52 settlements from 1938 to 1947 largely decided the borders of Israel in the UN 29 November 1947 decision, is attributed to kibbutz member Shlomo Gur.\n\nThe establishment of the Palmach underground army in 1942, which won the yishuv crucial military struggle against Palestinian Arabs from 30 November 1947 up to 15 May 1948 that made possible the establishment of the Israeli state, was due to efforts by Tabenkin and other Kibbutz Meuchad leaders. One of them, Yigal Allon and Kibbutz Artzi member Shimon Avidan were the two most important commanders who won the 1948 war, and numerous kibbutz members were Cabinet Ministers who largely shaped Israeli politics from 1955 to 1977. Kibbutz-born Ehud Barak was Prime Minister from 1999 to 2001, and David Ben-Gurion lived most of his life in Tel Aviv, but joined Kibbutz Sde Boker in the Negev after resigning as Prime Minister in 1953. He remained a member after his return to office in 1955.\n\nKibbutzim also contributed greatly to the growing Hebrew culture movement. The poet Rachel rhapsodized on the landscape from viewpoints from various Galilee kibbutzim in the 1920s and 1930s. The kibbutz dream of \"making the desert bloom\" became part of the Israeli dream as well.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30867501", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30867501", "title": "Labour code", "text": "Labour code\n\nA labour code, (also called a \"code of labour laws\") is a codification of labour laws in legislative form.\n\nOne of the first labour codes was first introduced in 1918 in the Russian Soviet Federative Socialist Republic, as a legal framework underlying the requirement to ensure the right to work declared in the first Soviet Constitution.\n\nIn the aftermath of post-war the labour codes basing upon the same set of social guarantees were introduced in German Democratic Republic, People's Republic of Hungary, People's Republic of Poland and the other socialist countries in Central and Eastern Europe.\n\nPresently the Labour Code exists in Russian Federation and in some other former Soviet Republics.\n\nIn Canada the Labour Code (R.S., 1985, c. L-2) was adopted in 1985 superseding the Industrial Relations and Disputes Investigation Act of 1948.\n\n, abbr. \"КЗОТ\", \"KZOT\").\n\nOn July 10, 1918 the adopted the Constitution of Russia which declared the right and duty to work for all citizen. Pursuant to this the All-Russian Central Executive Committee approved the Code of Labour Laws and the \"Regulations on employment record books\" as an Appendix to the Article 80 of this Code.\n\n, abbr. \"AGB\").<BR>\n<BR>\nThe new labour code of the Czech Republic No.262/2006 Sb. effective from January 1, 2007, superseded the Code of 65/1965.\n\n"}
{"id": "55236259", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55236259", "title": "List of things named for Daniel Webster", "text": "List of things named for Daniel Webster\n\nThe following is a list of things named for Daniel Webster.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nIn 1850, John H. Hewitt wrote the song, \"The Union Forever\", using the theme from #21 \"Per te d'immenso giubilo\" from \"Lucia di Lammormoor\" and dedicated it to Daniel Webster.\n\n"}
{"id": "19262986", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19262986", "title": "Logocracy", "text": "Logocracy\n\nLogocracy is the rule of, or government by, words. It is derived from the Greek (logos)—\"word\" and from (kratos)—to \"govern\". The term can be used either positively, ironically, or negatively.\n\nThe United States is described as a logocracy in Washington Irving's 1807 work, \"Salmagundi\". A visiting foreigner, \"Mustapha Rub-a-dub Keli Khan\", describes it as such, by which he means that via the tricky use of words, one can have power over others. Those most adept at this are termed \"slang-whangers\", while Congress is a \"blustering, windy assembly\". Mustapha describes how:\n\"unknown to these people themselves, their government is a pure unadulterated LOGOCRACY or \"government of words\". The whole nation does every thing \"viva voce\", or, by word of mouth, and in this manner is one of the most military nations in existence [...] In a logocracy thou well knowest there is little or no occasion for fire arms, or any such destructive weapons. Every offensive or defensive measure is enforced by \"wordy battle\", and \"paper war\"; he who has the longest tongue or readiest quill, is sure to gain the victory—will carry horrour [sic], abuse, and \"ink shed\" into the very trenches of the enemy, and without mercy or remorse, put men, women, and children to the point of the—pen!\"\n\nThe Soviet Union was described by Nobel Prize winner Czesław Miłosz, as a logocracy. It was for example, according to Christine D. Tomei, a \"pseudo-reality created by mere words\". Moreover, after the revolution Luciano Pellicani describes how a \"language reform plan\" was introduced by Kisselev. In it he \"stressed that the old mentality would never be overthrown, if the structure of the Russian language was not also transformed and purged.\"\n\nThis process led to a Soviet language that George Orwell would later dub \"neo-language\", and was a precursor to his \"Nineteen Eighty-Four\" Newspeak. The new Soviet 'language' was less a real language than an 'orthogloxy', a \"stereotyped jargon consisting of formulas and empty slogans, whose purpose was to prevent people from thinking outside the boundaries of collective thought\"—i.e. it was speech which destroyed individuality. Janina Frentzel-Zagórska, however, queries the importance of political language in the USSR, saying that \"the old ideological 'Newspeak' had completely disappeared in the Soviet Union long before\" the fall of Communism.\n\nTotalitarianism, according to political theorist Hannah Arendt, can be considered a logocracy, since in it ideas are no longer important, just how they are expressed.\n\nAcademic Yahya Michot has referred to Sunni Islam as a \"popular\" or \"laic logocracy\", in that it is government by the word of the Koran.\n\n"}
{"id": "999726", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=999726", "title": "Marxist Co-ordination Committee", "text": "Marxist Co-ordination Committee\n\nMarxist Coordination Committee is a political party in Jharkhand, India. MCC is based in the coal mining region of Dhanbad.\n\nJanwadi Kisan Sangram Samiti (Democratic Peasants Struggle Association) was formed after local communist leader A. K. Roy had been expelled from Communist Party of India (Marxist). JKSS later converted into MCC. MCC is still led by A. K. Roy, who has been elected MP three times.\n\nA. K. Roy was active in the Jharkhand movement and co-founder of Jharkhand Mukti Morcha. As Jharkhand Mukti Morcha developed into a political party, the relations soared.\n\nIn 1980, A. K. Roy then MP and K.S. Chatterjee a Member of Bihar Legislative Assembly were arrested under the National Security Act. In total Roy has been jailed four times.\n\nK.S.Chatterjee was elected to the Bihar Legislative Assembly twice as an Independent candidate. He joined the Indian National Congress and won in 1985 on a Congress ticket. He is a prominent Trade Union Leader in the Dhanbad region and is the President of Bihar Pradesh Colliery Mazdoor Congress.\n\nIn 1998 the only Member of the Bihar Legislative Assembly of MCC, Gurudas Chatterjee was murdered by the coal mafia. Chatterjee's son Arup Chatterjee took over his mandate after a by-poll.\n\n"}
{"id": "18408301", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18408301", "title": "Night flying restrictions", "text": "Night flying restrictions\n\nNight flying restrictions are any regulations or legislation imposed by a governing body to limit the ground-perceived exposure to aircraft noise during the night hours, when the majority of residents are trying to sleep. Such regulations may include restrictions to available flight paths, or prohibitions against takeoffs, or prohibitions against takeoffs and landings, or prohibitions against ground operations (engine runups or taxiing).\n\nNight flying restrictions, commonly known as curfews, are common at airports in Europe.\n\nThe night restrictions for Heathrow, Gatwick and Stansted define a night period, 2300–0700 hours, and a night quota period, 2330–0600 hours. During the night period, the noisiest types of aircraft (classified as QC/4, QC/8 or QC/16 under the Quota Count system) may not be scheduled to land or to take off (other than in the most exceptional circumstances, such as an emergency landing.). In addition, during the night quota period movements by most other types of aircraft (including the new QC/0.25 category) will be restricted by a movements limit and a noise quota, which are set for each season.\n\nMost airports in Germany have restrictions and curfews during the night. Frankfurt International Airport, for example has a total ban on scheduled aircraft movements between 2300 and 0500 hours, and during the morning and evening periods (2200-2300 and 0500-0600) a limited number of flights are allowed, providing they comply with ICAO Chapter 4 noise regulations. Further restrictions apply to noisier aircraft. \n\n"}
{"id": "12127932", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12127932", "title": "One Wales", "text": "One Wales\n\nOne Wales (, ) was the coalition agreement for the National Assembly for Wales between Labour and Plaid Cymru agreed to by Rhodri Morgan, First Minister of Wales and leader of Welsh Labour, and Ieuan Wyn Jones, leader of Plaid Cymru, on 27 June 2007. It was negotiated in the wake of the preceding National Assembly election which resulted in a large Labour plurality, but no majority. Labour and Plaid Cymru approved the document in separate votes on 6 and 7 July, respectively.\n\nOn 3 May 2007, Labour won 26 of 60 seats in the 2007 National Assembly for Wales election, four short of an effective majority of 30 (see Speaker Denison's rule for an explanation of why this is so). Originally, commentators had predicted a Labour-Welsh Liberal Democrats coalition, after a previous coalition which had lasted from 2000 until 2003. Liberal Democrat leader Mike German, who had served as Deputy First Minister of Wales in the previous coalition, favoured the deal, which would have given the Government a majority of four. However, concerns within his party about propping up a weakened Labour party prevented such an agreement. An alternative option, the so-called \"rainbow coalition\" of Plaid Cymru, the Liberal Democrats and the Conservatives, was negotiated between the leaders of those parties in mid-May, but was rejected at a Liberal Democrat special conference vote on 23 May. The new Assembly formally opened two days later with no clear majority, and Rhodri Morgan was elected First Minister unopposed at the head of a minority government.\n\nAfter one month of minority government, talks between Ieuan Wyn Jones and Rhodri Morgan resulted in the One Wales agreement between Labour and Plaid Cymru, giving the Government a majority of 22. The agreement was criticised by some Labour members as too conciliatory towards Plaid Cymru's nationalist leanings, especially in that it included a provision requiring a referendum on full law-making powers for the National Assembly for Wales, in line with the Scottish Parliament. However, the Labour party agreed to the plan by a wide margin on 6 July. Plaid Cymru's membership approved the plan on 7 July. Negotiations on cabinet posts in the new government were scheduled to take place starting 9 July, but Morgan fell ill the night before. The next day, he had surgery to insert stents into on two partially blocked arteries. He was released from the hospital a few days later, and negotiations concluded on 19 July. Three Plaid Cymru AMs would serve as full ministers alongside six Labour members, with four deputy ministers from Labour and one from Plaid Cymru. The only Labour member to be struck from the government as a result of the deal was Deputy Economy and Transport Minister Huw Lewis, who had previously opposed the One Wales deal.\n\nIn March 2010 Labour and Plaid Cymru AMs refused to cross the PCS union picket line. The First Minister Carwyn Jones claimed that it was in the Welsh Labour party's political thinking not to cross a picket line. The Welsh Conservative Party and the Welsh Liberal Democrats condemned the One Wales government for not attending Assembly business.\n\nThe first page of the agreement states that it \"delivers a progressive, stable and ambitious programme for government\nover this Assembly term.\" Under its terms, Ieuan Wyn Jones became Deputy First Minister and Rhodri Morgan remained First Minister. Other posts were divided up among members of the two parties by Morgan in consultation with Jones.\nThe key policy proposals of the deal focused on increasing the amount of affordable housing in Wales through various incentives and schemes; investing in a comprehensive rail programme to link North Wales and South Wales more effectively; instituting a moratorium on community hospital reforms and promising to \"agree and implement a new approach to health service reconfiguration\" when \"there is a local agreement on the way forward\"; a new commission to tackle climate change problems and alternative energy questions; and, most controversially, an agreement to hold a referendum on new law-making powers for the National Assembly in the vein of those previously granted to the Scottish Parliament. The text also stated that Plaid Cymru and Labour had agreed \"in good faith to campaign for a successful outcome to such a referendum.\"\n\nThis last section was criticised by Welsh Labour MPs Paul Murphy, Don Touhig, and Kim Howells, Minister of State at the Foreign and Commonwealth Office, who claimed it would lead \"nationalists to the gates of independence.\"\n\nThe referendum was held on 3 March 2011. The outcome was 'yes', with 63.49% of the participants for and 36.51% against; 35.2% of the electorate participated.\n\nThe agreement was seen variously as a first step towards independence, a sell-out on Plaid's part that propped up a Labour government, and part of a wider shift towards nationalism in the British Isles. According to polling by the BBC in January 2007, only 20% of Welsh voters favoured independence, but 22.4% of Welsh voters supported Plaid Cymru — just one of a number of nationalist parties and candidates in the 2007 Assembly election. This was put down to more general dissatisfaction with Labour's Tony Blair in the media, suggesting that any growth in nationalist sentiment might have been less important to the electorate's shift away from Labour than Westminster political scandals.\n\nThe Welsh Government published the \"One Wales Delivery Plan 2007-2011\", setting out 228 specific commitments in \"One Wales\" to be delivered by April 2011. Each section of the plan included a vision statement and success criteria.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30440302", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30440302", "title": "Open assessment", "text": "Open assessment\n\nOpen assessment is a method for making impact assessments where anyone can participate and contribute. Most open assessments have been made in Opasnet, which is a wiki-based web-workspace specifically designed for this purpose. The open assessment method has been developed in the National Institute for Health and Welfare in Finland originally for providing guidance in complex environmental health problems. So far, it has been applied on e.g. air pollution and pollutants in fish. Opasnet has won the World Summit Award Finland competition, the eGovernment and Institutions category.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1948809", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1948809", "title": "Peace commission", "text": "Peace commission\n\nA peace commission is an organization that operates at a local, regional, or national level within a country to reduce, counter, or prevent conflict. Typically, a peace commission will involve local communities and individuals in the peace building process.\nA Truth and reconciliation commission is a form of Peace Commission that discovers and reveals past wrongdoings in the hope of resolving conflict left over from the past. The South African Truth and Reconciliation Commission is an example.\nA commission such as the Southern Sudan Peace Commission is less concerned with the past, and more with finding ways to prevent ongoing ethnic violence from escalating, but instead to move towards a more peaceful society.\n\nAnother sense for the term is a commission that represents a country negotiating the terms of a peace during or immediately after a war.\n\nExamples of peace commissions that promote the peace in unstable situations:\n\n\nExamples of peace commissions established to negotiate terms of peace:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52621196", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52621196", "title": "People's Constitutional Party", "text": "People's Constitutional Party\n\nThe People's Constitutional Party was a political party active in the U.S. state of New Mexico during the late 1960s and early 1970s.\n\nThe party was formed in 1968 by supporters of Reies Tijerina and his Alianza Federal de Mercedes, who was active in the Chicano Movement and advocated for land grants in New Mexico to be restored to descendants of their original Spanish and Mexican owners. The party, which was led by Pedro Arechuleta and Moises Morales, called for \"bilingual education, civilian police review boards, and an increase in welfare payments.\" Due to his status as a convicted felon, Tijerina was disqualified as a gubernatorial candidate in the 1968 election and was replaced by Jose Maestes. The party ran several candidates in the 1968 and 1970 elections, but none were successful, or even received more than 2% of the vote, and it dissolved shortly afterward, largely due to Tijerina's imprisonment a year prior. In May 1970, the People's Constitutional Party had 169 registered members.\n\n"}
{"id": "46504296", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46504296", "title": "People's Defence Forces", "text": "People's Defence Forces\n\nThe People's Defence Forces (, HPG) is the military wing of the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK).\n"}
{"id": "4621479", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4621479", "title": "Performance report", "text": "Performance report\n\nA performance report is a report on the performance of something. They are routinely produced by government bodies which, being financed by public money, are required to show that the money was spent efficiently and usefully. Such reports will contain performance indicators which measure the achievements of the organisation and its programmes. For example, for a police department, the report might show the number of arrests, number of convictions by crime category and the change in the crime rate.\n\nIn the Clinton health care plan of 1993, it seemed that performance reports for hospitals and other health care providers would be national policy and many prototypes were developed and tested.\n"}
{"id": "55724141", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55724141", "title": "Reginald Appleby", "text": "Reginald Appleby\n\nReginald Woodifield Appleby, , (1865 – 30 August 1948) was an English lawyer, practising in Bermuda, who in 1898 founded the predecessor of the law firm that now trades as Appleby. He served as a major in the Bermuda Volunteer Rifle Corps during the First World War and was a member of the Legislative Council of Bermuda.\n\nReginald Appleby was born at Portsea Island, Hampshire, England, in 1865 to George Walton Appleby of Durham and Agnes Sterry Tucker of Bermuda. His father was described in the 1871 census as widowed and \"Late Captain Landowner\" and in 1881 as \"Late Cpt 31st Regmt\". Reginald had three brothers and a sister.\n\nHis mother died in 1870 and his father remarried, to Drusilla Matthews, his former servant who had been with the family when his first wife was alive. George and Drusilla gave Reginald several half-siblings.\n\nReginald Appleby married Edith Mary Gosling and they had a daughter, Prudence Tucker (1905–1976), later Prudence Pearman. The family lived in Westmoreland, Pembroke Parish, Bermuda.\n\nAppleby passed his final law exams in England in 1887. He was in partnership with Reginald Gray, later Sir Reginald Gray, attorney-general of Bermuda, from 1893 to 1897 in Bermuda as Gray & Appleby. In 1898 he founded his own eponymous law firm. By 1903 he was a justice of the peace when he sat on the marine court of inquiry into the wreck of the S.S. \"Madiana\". In 1938 he and Sir Dudley Spurling merged their practices to establish Appleby & Spurling. The year after Appleby's death in 1948, that firm merged with William Kempe to become Appleby Spurling Kempe (or Kemp), one of the predecessors of the firm that now trades as Appleby, the firm at the centre of the Paradise Papers leaks in 2017.\n\nHe served in the Bermuda Volunteer Rifle Corps during the First World War, an auxiliary unit raised on the island before the war. In 1916 he was awarded the Volunteer Officers' Decoration at which time he had the rank of major.\n\nHe was appointed to the Legislative Council of Bermuda in 1928 and according to \"The Irish Times\", citing reports in Bermuda's \"The Royal Gazette\", spoke against the idea of the introduction of an income tax in Bermuda at a Legislative Council meeting in 1940, siding with \"those who look on all income tax as man's last refinement of torture, to be resisted at all costs.\"\n\nAppleby was made a Commander of the Order of the British Empire in King George VI's 1947 New Year Honours for \"Public services in Bermuda\". He died on at Doctor's Hospital, New York, and was buried at Pembroke Cemetery in Bermuda.\n\n"}
{"id": "15233429", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15233429", "title": "Royalist (Spanish American independence)", "text": "Royalist (Spanish American independence)\n\nThe royalists were the Latin American and European supporters of the various governing bodies of the Spanish Monarchy, during the Spanish American wars of independence, which lasted from 1808 until the king's death in 1833. In the early years of the conflict, when King Ferdinand VII was captive in France, royalists supported the authority in the Americas of the Supreme Central Junta of Spain and the Indies and the Cádiz Cortes that ruled in the King's name during the Peninsular War. After the restoration of Ferdinand VII in 1814, royalists supported his claim to rule Spanish America, but were split between those that supported his insistence to rule under traditional law and liberals, who sought to reinstate the reforms enacted by the Cádiz Cortes.\n\nThe creation of juntas in Spanish America in 1810 was a direct reaction to developments in Spain during the previous two years. In 1808 Ferdinand VII had been convinced to abdicate by Napoleon in his favor, who granted the throne to his brother, Joseph Bonaparte. The Supreme Central Junta had led a resistance to Joseph's government and the French occupation of Spain, but suffered a series of reverses resulting in the loss of the northern half of the country. On February 1, 1810, French troops took Seville and gained control of most of Andalusia. The Supreme Junta retreated to Cadiz and dissolved itself in favor of a Regency Council of Spain and the Indies. As news of this arrived throughout Spanish America during the next three weeks to nine months—depending on time it took goods and people to travel from Spain—political fault lines appeared. Royal officials and Spanish Americans were split between those who supported the idea of maintaining the status quo—that is leaving all the government institutions and officers in place—regardless of the developments in Spain, and those who thought that the time had come to establish local rule, initially through the creation of juntas, in order to preserve the independence of Spanish America from the French or from a rump government in Spain that could no longer legitimately claim to rule a vast empire. It is important to note that, at first, the juntas claimed to carry out their actions in the name of the deposed king and did not formally declare independence. Juntas were successfully established in Venezuela, Río de la Plata and New Granada, and there were unsuccessful movements to do so in other regions. A few juntas initially chose to recognize the Regency, nevertheless the creation of juntas challenged the authority of all sitting royal officials and the right of the government in Spain to rule in the Americas.\n\nIn the months following the establishment of the Regency, it became clear that Spain was not lost, and furthermore the government was effectively reconstituting itself. The Regency successfully convened the Cortes Generales, the traditional parliament of the Spanish Monarchy, which in this case included representatives from the Americas. The Regency and Cortes began issuing orders to, and appointing, royal officials throughout the empire. Those who supported the new government came to be called \"royalists.\" Those that supported the idea of maintaining independent juntas called themselves \"patriots,\" and a few among them were proponents of declaring full, formal independence from Spain. As the Cortes instituted liberal reforms and worked on drafting a constitution, a new division appeared among royalists. Conservatives (often called \"absolutists\" in the historiography) did not want to see any innovations in government, while liberals supported them. These differences would become more acute after the restoration of Ferdinand VII, because the king opted to support the conservative position.\n\nRegional rivalry also played an important role in the internecine wars that broke out in Spanish America as a result of the juntas. The disappearance of a central, imperial authority—and in some cases of even a local, viceregal authority (as in the cases of New Granada and Río de la Plata)—initiated a prolonged period of balkanization in many regions of Spanish America. It was not clear which political units which should replace the empire, and there were no new national identities to replace the traditional sense of being Spaniards. The original juntas of 1810 appealed first, to sense of being Spanish, which was juxtaposed against the French threat; second, to a general American identity, which was juxtaposed against the Peninsula which was lost to the French; and third, to a sense of belonging to the local province, the \"patria\" in Spanish. More often than not, juntas sought to maintain a province's independence from the capital of the former viceroyalty or captaincy general, as much as from the Peninsula itself. Armed conflicts broke out between the provinces over the question of whether some provinces were to be subordinate to others in the manner that they had been under the crown. This phenomenon was particularly evident in New Granada and Río de la Plata. This rivalry also lead some regions to adopt the opposing political cause from their rivals. Peru seems to have remained strongly royalist in large part because of its rivalry with Río de la Plata, to which it had lost control of Upper Peru when the latter was elevated to a viceroyalty in 1776. The creation of juntas in Río de la Plata allowed Peru to regain formal control of Upper Peru for the duration of the wars.\n\nThe restoration of Ferdinand VII signified an important change, since most of the political and legal changes done on both sides of the Atlantic—the myriad of juntas, the Cortes in Spain and several of the congresses in the Americas that evolved out of the juntas, and the many constitutions and new legal codes—had been done in his name. Once in Spain Ferdinand VII realized that he had significant support from conservatives in the general population and the hierarchy of the Spanish Catholic Church, and so on May 4, he repudiated the Spanish Constitution of 1812 and ordered the arrest of liberal leaders who had created it on May 10. Ferdinand justified his actions by stating that the Constitution and other changes had been made by a Cortes assembled in his absence and without his consent. He also declared all of the juntas and constitutions written in Spanish America invalid and restored the former law codes and political institutions.\n\nThis, in effect, constituted a definitive break with two groups that could have been allies of Ferdinand VII: the autonomous governments, which had not yet declared formal independence, and Spanish liberals who had created a representative government that would fully include the overseas possessions and was seen as an alternative to independence by many in New Spain (today Mexico), Central America, the Caribbean, Venezuela, Quito (Ecuador), Peru, Upper Peru (Bolivia) and Chile. Most Spanish Americans were moderates who decided to wait and see what would come out of the restoration of normalcy. In fact in areas of New Spain, Central America and Quito, governors found it expedient to leave the elected constitutional \"ayuntamientos\" in place for several years in order to prevent conflict with the local society. Liberals on both sides of the Atlantic, nevertheless, continued to conspire to bring back a constitutional monarchy, ultimately succeeding in 1820. The most dramatic example of transAtlantic collaboration is perhaps Francisco Javier Mina's expedition to Texas and northern Mexico in 1816 and 1817.\n\nSpanish Americans in royalist areas who were committed to independence had already joined guerrilla movements. Ferdinand's actions did set areas outside of the control of the royalist armies on the path to full independence. The governments of these regions, which had their origins in the juntas of 1810—and even moderates there who had entertained a reconciliation with the crown—now saw the need to separate from Spain, if they were to protect the reforms they had enacted.\n\nSpanish liberals finally had success in forcing Ferdinand VII to restore the Constitution on January 1, 1820, when Rafael Riego headed a rebellion among troops which had been gathered for a large expeditionary force to be sent to the Americas. By March 7, the royal palace in Madrid was surrounded by soldiers under the command of General Francisco Ballesteros, and three days later on March 10, the besieged Ferdinand VII, now a virtual prisoner, agreed to restore the Constitution.\n\nRiego's revolt had two significant effects on the war in the Americas. First in military matters, the large numbers of reinforcements, that were especially needed to retake New Granada and defend the Viceroyalty of Peru, would never arrive. Furthermore, as the royalist situation became more desperate in region after region, the army experienced wholesale defections of units to the patriot side. Second in political matters, the reinstitution of a liberal regime changed the terms under which the Spanish government sought to engage the insurgents. The new government naively assumed that the insurgents were fighting for Spanish liberalism and that the Spanish Constitution could still be the basis of reconciliation between the two sides. Government implemented the Constitution and held elections in the overseas provinces, just as in Spain. It also ordered military commanders to begin armistice negotiations with the insurgents with the promise that they could participate in the restored representative government.\n\nThe Spanish Constitution, it turned out, served as the basis for independence in New Spain and Central America, since in the two regions it was a coalition of conservative and liberal royalist leaders who led the establishment of new states. The restoration of the Spanish Constitution and representative government was enthusiastically welcomed in New Spain and Central America. Elections were held, local governments formed and deputies sent to the Cortes. Among liberals, however, there was fear that the new regime would not last, and among conservatives and the Church, that the new liberal government would expand its reforms and anti-clerical legislation. This climate of instability created the conditions for the two sides to forge an alliance. This alliance coalesced towards the end of 1820 behind Agustín de Iturbide, a colonel in the royal army, who at the time was assigned to destroy the guerrilla forces led by Vicente Guerrero. Instead Iturbide entered into negotiations, which resulted in the Plan of Iguala, which would establish New Spain as an independent kingdom, with Ferdinand VII as its king. With the Treaty of Córdoba, the highest Spanish official in Mexico approved the Plan of Iguala, and although the Spanish government never ratified this treaty, it did not have the resources to enforce its rejection. Ultimately, it was the royal army in Mexico that ultimately brought about that nation's independence.\n\nCentral America gained its independence along with New Spain. The regional elites supported the terms of the Plan of Iguala and orchestrated the union of Central America with the Mexican Empire in 1821. Two years later following Iturbide's downfall, the region, with the exception of Chiapas, peacefully seceded from Mexico in July 1823, establishing the Federal Republic of Central America. The new state existed for seventeen years, centrifugal forces pulling the individual provinces apart by 1840.\n\nIn South America independence was spurred by the pro-independence fighters that had held out for the past half decade. José de San Martín and Simón Bolívar inadvertently led a continental-wide pincer movement from southern and northern South America that liberated most of the Spanish American nations on that continent and secured the independence the Southern Cone had more or less experienced since 1810. In South America, royalist soldiers, officers (such as Andrés de Santa Cruz) and whole units also began to desert or defect to the patriots in large numbers as the royal army's situation became dire. During the end of 1820 in Venezuela, after Bolívar and Pablo Morillo concluded a cease fire, many units crossed lines knowing that Spanish control of the region would not last. The situation repeated itself in Peru from 1822 to 1825 as republican forces slowly advanced there. Unlike in Mexico, however, the top military and political leadership in these parts of South America came from patriot side and not the royalists.\n\nThe collapse of the constitutional regime in Spain in 1823 had other implications for the war in South America. Royalist officers, split between liberals and conservatives, fought an internecine war among themselves. General Pedro Antonio Olañeta, commander in Upper Peru, rebelled against the liberal viceroy of Peru, José de la Serna, in 1823. This conflict provided an opportunity for the republican forces under the command of Bolívar and Antonio José de Sucre to advance, culminating in the Battle of Ayacucho on December 9, 1824. The royal army of Upper Peru surrendered after Olañeta was killed on April 2, 1825. Former royalists, however, played an important part in the creation of Peru and Bolivia. In Bolivia, royalists, like Casimiro Olañeta, nephew of General Olañeta, gathered in a congress and declared the country's independence from Peru. And in Peru after Bolívar's forces left the country in 1827, Peruvian leaders undid many of his political reforms.\n\nThere are two types of units: expeditionary units ( in Spanish: expedicionarios) created in Spain and militias (in Spanish: milicias), units which already existed or were created during the conflict in America. The militias, which were composed wholly of militiamen who were residents or natives of Spanish America, were bolstered by the presence of \"veteran units\" (or \"disciplined militia\") composed of Peninsular and Spanish American veterans of Spain's wars in Europe and around the globe. The veteran units were expected to form a core of experienced soldiers in the local defenses, whose expertise would be invaluable to the regular militiamen who often lacked sustained military experience, if any. The veteran units were created in the past century as part of the Bourbon Reforms to reinforce Spanish America's defenses against the increasing encroachment of other European powers, such as during the Seven Years' War.\n\nOverall, Europeans formed only about a tenth of the royalist armies in Spanish America, and only about half of the expeditionary units. Since each European soldier casualty was substituted by a Spanish American soldier, over time, there were more and more Spanish American soldiers in the expeditionary units. For example, Pablo Morillo, commander in chief in Venezuela and New Granada, reported that he only had 2,000 European soldiers, in other words, only half of the soldiers of his expeditionary force were European. It is estimated that in the Battle of Maipú only a quarter of the royalist forces were European soldiers, in the Battle of Carabobo about a fifth, and in the Battle of Ayacucho less than 1% was European.\n\nThe American militias reflected the racial make-up of the local population. For example, in 1820 the royalist army in Venezuela had 843 white (\"español\"), 5,378 Casta and 980 Native soldiers.\n</div>\n\n<div class=\"NavContent\">\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46529895", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46529895", "title": "Sex Workers' Rights Movement", "text": "Sex Workers' Rights Movement\n\nThe Sex Workers' Rights Movement is a movement in many countries worldwide which works to improve working conditions, increase benefits and eliminate discrimination on behalf of individuals working within the sex industry, whether legal or criminalized.\n\nThe national organisation in Australia is named Scarlet Alliance.\n\nThe English Collective of Prostitutes was founded in 1975.\n\nIn Lyon 1975 20 sex workers occupied a church to protest against working conditions. Today there is the \"Syndicat du travail sexuel\" ()\n\nOne of the first projects in Germany was Hydra formed in Berlin 1979. In 2014 the \"Bundesverband erotische und sexuelle Dienstleistungen\" (BESD) was founded in 2013.\n\nThe \"Sex Workers Alliance Ireland\" (SWAI) was established in 2009.\n\nCarol Leigh coined the expression sex workers in 1978.\nCOYOTE is an American advocacy group for prostitutes. \nBAYSWAN is a non-profit organization for sex workers in the San Francisco Bay Area.\n"}
{"id": "31337022", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31337022", "title": "Six Million Crucifixions", "text": "Six Million Crucifixions\n\nSix Million Crucifixions: How Christian Teachings About Jews Paved the Road to the Holocaust is a 2010 history book by author Gabriel Wilensky. The book examines the role Christian teachings about Jews played in enabling the racial eliminationist antisemitism that gave rise to the Holocaust. In \"Six Million Crucifixions\" Wilensky argues that from the earliest days of the Christian movement an attitude of contempt toward Jews and Judaism emerged, which over time evolved into full-blown hatred. Wilensky argues that it was this foundation that made the various peoples of Europe ultimately receptive to the genocidal message of the Nazis, and made large numbers of them willing collaborators in the extermination of two thirds of European Jewry in what is known as the \"Holocaust\".\n\nThe book concludes by arguing that following the Allied victory in the Second World War, the Allies should have tried any members of the Christian clergy who may have been complicit in the crimes of the Third Reich and its allies before, during and after the war.\n\n\"Six Million Crucifixions\" has a foreword by Holocaust scholar John K. Roth, who wrote \"By now, numerous books by Christians, Jews, and others have taken Christianity to task for its many failures before, during, and after the Holocaust. But few, if any, hit harder than Wilensky's.\" The book is divided into five parts. Part I provides a brief overview of some key events in the history of Christian-Jewish relations from the time of Jesus until the end of the Second World War. Part II specifically describes and discusses the phenomenon of Christian antisemitism. Part III covers the role of the Protestant and Catholic churches during the Nazi period and beyond. Part IV offers a short introduction to some legal concepts and provides an overview of criminal acts that Catholic and Protestant clergy, and the churches as institutions, may have been guilty of, and provides material that might have been used for an indictment had the Allies pursued another set of international prosecutions at the end of the Second World War. Lastly, the Epilogue covers post-World War II events including positive steps taken by the Catholic and Protestant churches after the Second Vatican Council.\n\nTwo appendices provide a list of anti-Jewish statements by many popes throughout history, as well as a list of anti-Jewish papal bulls.\n\nWilensky devotes a sizable part of \"Six Million Crucifixions\" to describe the genesis and evolution of anti-Jewish sentiment in Christianity. He describes in some detail how the feeling of animosity began since the early days of the Christian sect, and how it grew over time into open hatred. The book explains how this feeling became part of the foundational writings and teachings of the Catholic Church, and indeed an integral aspect of early Christianity. \"Six Million Crucifixions\" shows how anti-Jewish animosity emanating from all levels of the Church hierarchy molded the image the Christian faithful held about Jews, which in time became consistently negative.\n\n\"Six Million Crucifixions\" makes the point that even though not all Christians during the Nazi period were actively antisemitic, most were at a minimum passive bystanders during the persecution and extermination of Jews during the Holocaust. As Father John T. Pawlikowski, Director of the Catholic-Jewish Studies Program at Catholic Theological Union in Chicago stated, \"(Christianity) provided a seedbed—at least for acquiesence during the attacks on Jews.\" Wilensky notes that even though many Christians may have disagreed with extermination as a means of solving the so-called \"Jewish Question\", they were passive bystanders precisely because as inheritors of centuries of anti-Jewish teachings they felt the Jews were guilty of a number of crimes and thus deserving of punishment, or that there was indeed a need to act that way in self-defense against what they perceived to be a Jewish threat. As the United States Conference of Catholic Bishops explained, \"Christian anti-Judaism did lay the groundwork for racial, genocidal anti-semitism by stigmatizing not only Judaism but Jews themselves for opprobrium and contempt.\"\n\nWilensky also focuses on those people that confronted the persecution of Jews and helped to save them. In particular Wilensky acknowledges the actions of the Danish people whose help was instrumental in saving the vast majority of the country's Jews. Wilensky also notes that after the Second Vatican Council in 1965 the Catholic and Protestant churches made great progress in redressing these problems and in fostering a better understanding and acceptance of Judaism within the Christian community.\n\nThe other major theme in \"Six Million Crucifixions\" is prosecutorial. As Michael Berenbaum, Director of the Sigi Ziering Institute points out, \"Six Million Crucifixions\" is an indictment of the Catholic and Protestant churches, with an emphasis on the Catholic Church. Wilensky makes the suggestion that after the Second World War the Allies should have set up another international trial to prosecute any members of the clergy who may have been guilty of incitement or persecution of Jews before, during and after World War II. The book presents material that might have been used in a potential indictment had the Allies chosen to set up such a trial.\n\n\"Six Million Crucifixions\" has generally been well received by the critical media as well as scholars in the field of Holocaust studies and readers alike. Eugene J. Fisher, who is retired associate director of the Secretariat for Ecumenical and Interreligious Affairs at the U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops, in principle agrees with \"Six Million Crucifixions\"' main thesis that Christians need to accept that the Christian teaching of contempt toward Jews and Judaism prepared the ground for the Nazi genocide. However, Fisher finds that despite the fact that the book is well-intentioned, it is ultimately flawed as \"Wilensky presents what has been called by Jewish scholars a lachrymose view of Jewish-Christian history, emphasizing the negatives and ignoring or writing off the positive aspects of our two-millennium-long encounter.\"\n\nElizabeth Breau writes in a \"ForeWord\" magazine review, \"Wilensky's writing is a lucid, concise reminder of why it is important to remember how deadly religious bigotry can be.\"\nFred Reiss at San Diego Jewish World focuses on the book's main thesis, that is, that the frequently repeated anti-Jewish sermons and writings from Christian scholars, theologians and general clergy over a very long time had a profound negative influence on the Christian faithful. He writes, \"Six Million Crucifixions brilliantly explains the anti-Semitic attitude of the Catholic Church and how, over the centuries, its repeated railings against the Jewish people created brutal waves of anger, which led to repeated mass murders of Jews in various local[e]s throughout Europe.\"\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7296026", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7296026", "title": "Supreme Ruler 2020", "text": "Supreme Ruler 2020\n\nSupreme Ruler 2020 is a grand strategy wargame developed by BattleGoat Studios and published by Paradox Interactive. The game was released on June 17, 2008 and is a sequel to \"Supreme Ruler 2010\". In the game, the player controls all aspects of a region's government attempts to unite a world of fragmented states. On December 23, 2008 BattleGoat Studios released an expansion pack for the game titled Global Crisis. A Gold Edition of the game containing both the core game and the expansion pack was released on September 18, 2009.\n\nThe game allows players to choose either \"Scenarios\" with a defined scope and objective, or a \"Campaign\" \"Sandbox\" mode where there are no pre-determined victory conditions. There are over 250 playable regions simulated in the game. The player controls the economies, the militaries, research, government spending, spy operations (including the launching of satellites), and diplomacy. The player decides what military units to build, what facilities to build, how much or how little of a resource to produce, and also sets government policies in areas such as finance and social services. Diplomatic options include alliances, treaties, and trades of resources and technologies. The player can lead his or her people in technological advances and social reforms including globalization, free trade, renewable resources, biotechnology, nanotechnology, robotics, cyborg engineering and neural interface.\n\n\"Supreme Ruler 2020\" generally operates as a real time strategy game, though players are able to pause the game or change the game speed. The military element of the game is played through battalion-sized units represented on the game map, that can be controlled and given orders using the mouse individually or through groupings. Optionally players may leave \"unit initiative\" turned on, which will allow the AI to control military units for the player.\n\nThe player may also use Cabinet Ministers to assist with the operation of their regions, through the use of a Minister-priorities system and an in-game email system.\n\nMultiplayer is available in LAN or Internet play for up to 16 players.\n\n\"Supreme Ruler 2020\" has many improvements over BattleGoat Studios's first title Supreme Ruler 2010, including improved graphics, sound and AI.\n\nIn December 2008 BattleGoat and Paradox released the Global Crisis Expansion Pack for \"Supreme Ruler 2020\". This expansion featured additional content and improvements to the core game engine.\n\nIn 2009, Battlegoat Studios released a Gold Edition of Supreme Ruler 2020 including both the original game, as well as its expansion pack, Global Crisis. The Gold Edition is multiplayer compatible with the expansion pack for the core game.\n\nMost of the data files for Supreme Ruler 2020 are available in raw text format to accommodate modding. The user community has used this to create a number of mods for the game and even some third party utilities. A list of the current mods for the game is maintained on the Battlegoat Forum.\n\n"}
{"id": "48407863", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48407863", "title": "Surveillance blimp", "text": "Surveillance blimp\n\nA surveillance blimp is a type of airborne early warning and control aircraft, typically as the active part of a system which includes a mooring platform, communications and information processing. Example systems include the U.S. JLENS and Israeli Aeronautics Defense Skystar 300.\n"}
{"id": "41012206", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41012206", "title": "Thom Wainggai", "text": "Thom Wainggai\n\nThomas Wapai N.S Wainggai (also known as Dr. Thom) was a West Papuan scholar, political and cultural leader, philosopher, and nationalist; a true advocate of West Papuan self-determination and Melanesian identity. He was born and raised in Hollandia, Netherlands New Guinea, where he spent his young days. He became the first West Papuan to get an advanced education outside of West Papua. In 1988, he was arrested for his political beliefs and teachings and was sentenced to two decades behind bars. In 1996, he died as a political prisoner in an Indonesian prison.\n\nDr. Thom grew up and went to school in his hometown of Jayapura, West Papua. After high school, he enrolled at the Cenderawasih university - one of the leading universities in West Papua. At Cenderawasih university, Dr. Thom excelled. He built up good grades and was selected for the exchange program in Japan. He graduated with a degree in Law at the Okayama University. He then traveled to the United States to study on a Fulbright Scholarship. He graduated with a master's degree (MA) in Public Administration at the State University of New York at Albany, New York, and then earned a Doctorate of Philosophy from Florida State University in 1987. He had reached a level of education that many West Papuans of his time, even today, could not.\n\nDr. Thom was involved in politics as at an early age. As a young man, he watched West Papuans fight against the Indonesian occupation of their land since 1969. In 1988, as one of the West Papuan respected leaders, he began to teach a new kind of ideology: he taught that West Papuans are Melanesian people who are entitled to self-determination. Dr. Thom channeled the frustration of the people of West Papua over the legality of Indonesian occupation of their lands. In his view, the manner in which West Papua was handed over to Indonesia was highly unfair, grossly unjust, and illegal based on International Human Rights laws and conventions. Dr. Thom, a trained lawyer did refuse to hide his disdain and dissatisfaction toward Indonesian occupation of West Papua and determined to fight against Indonesia through logical and legal arguments. He used his knowledge of international statues to challenge the legality of Indonesian occupation of West Papua, but during the Suharto regime, it was a war he couldn't win without losing his own life.\n\nJames Vorendberg of \"Asia Watch\" explained the kind of country Indonesia was – and continues to this day – during Dr. Thom's time: Indonesia, ostensibly a Democracy, is in fact an authoritarian state where real decision-making power rests with President Suharto and the Indonesian military. Presidential decrees and administrative regulations are the major source of law, and the Dewan Perwakilan Rakyat (DPR), the national parliament dominated - though appointment and electoral procedures - by the ruling party, GOLKAR (Golongan Karyan, literally \"functional groups\"), serves more as a forum for discussion of national issues than as a legislature. The Indonesian government under President Suharto was essentially a \"dictatorship\" in which presidential directives were executed as laws making it extremely hard for critics to engage the state in public debate. The basic rights of speech and public discourses were effectively banned. Hundreds of Indonesians, including West Papuans, were arrested for speaking out against the state. Dr. Thom's dreams of an independent West Melanesia was seen as an extremely dangerous movement, and in 1988, the movement had its first test of the Suharto military justice.\n\nThe people of West Papua occupied this land and remained virtually untouched for tens of thousands of years. They were a \"gathering and hunting people\" whose cultures were influenced by their thick natural rich dense forest and vast marine resources. However, the arrive of Europeans between 17th and 19th centuries changed all that. The Netherlands (Dutch) claimed this territory by mere \"proclamation\" on August 24, 1828, and became a formal colony of the Netherlands in 1898.\n\nAfter World War II, Indonesia declared independence and by 1949, the Dutch colonial administration recognized its independence but continued to prepare West Papuans for their own independence. It was a reasonable argument to make since West Papuans and Indonesians are two distinctive cultures and ethnically differently. In a surprising move, the Indonesian government declared Irian Jaya (former name of West Papua) and other Islands - such as East Timor - parts of Indonesia. This is the beginning of the tension between the Dutch government and the newly recreated state of Indonesia. On December 1, 1961, the West Papuan leaders - together with Dutch leaderships - raised the West Papuan flag for the first time; flying together as one. It was the beginning of the journey to self-determination. Indonesian president Sukarno had the backing of the Soviet Union and the Chinese Communist (CHICOM) launched a full-scale invasion of West Papua. The United States saw an opportunity to jeopardize Soviet efforts, offered Indonesian a deal - it was too good to pass up.\n\nThe negotiations between Indonesia, Britain and the UN culminated in the New York Agreement, proceeded by the Act of Free Choice in 1969. The \"Act of Free Choice\" laid the foundation to the ultimate annexation of West Papua by the Indonesian government. According to the New York Agreement, it would be the responsibility of Indonesia and the UN to ensure that the people of West Papua voted to determine whether they would remain with Indonesia or to breakaway as an independent state. Unfortunately, voters were rounded up and coerced to vote in favor of Indonesia. In spite of the apparent flaws of that election, the UN observers quickly endorsed the election and leveled it \"fair\". West Papua was to be taken away from West Papuans based on an election whereby only a fraction of hand-picked voters determined that the rest of West Papuans - like the election or not - would be forever part of Indonesia.\n\nDr. Thom saw this as a day-light robbery of his people; culture, language, and rights to certain \"inalienable\" rights. His argument is that West Papuans are Melanesians who were wrongly taken from Melanesia under a sham election.\n\nIn 1963, the government of Indonesia passed one if toughest laws - the \"Anti-subversion\" law. The law was passed to protect the state of Indonesia from conspiracy to overthrow or divide the state. It explicitly defines the characteristics of individuals or movements liable to be tried under this statute:\n\nThis law was passed in 1963, two years after West Papua and Dutch authority hoisted the West Papuan flag - the Morning Star flag - on December 1, 1961, which West Papuans believed to be their self-determination day. By passing this law, the Indonesian government made it virtually impossible to criticize the state or do things that may appear to be threatening to the unity and safety of the state. Any movement that challenges the state authority can be prosecuted under this 'Anti-subversion' law.\n\nToward the end of 1988 - between November and December - Dr. Thom and his supporters met at his place where they mapped out a plan to declare the independence of West Melanesia - West Papua. On 14 December 1988, they marched to Manclula Sport Stadium in Jayapura. At the stadium, the Republic of West Melanesia was proclaimed with Dr. Thom as president of the newly declared independent state. A new flag was raised featuring 14 stars with three coloured bars of black, red and white. The flag had been sewn by his Japanese wife. It would be the first time that West Papuan independence movement declared West Papua as a Melanesian territory. Dr. Thom and his supporters apparently violated the 'Anti-subversion' law.\n\nThe Indonesian reaction was anticipated: Police officers arrived at the scene and apprehended Dr. Thom and other West Papuan political leaders; they were arrested and taken to military headquarters for interrogations. Taking these prisoners to military facilities made it extremely impossible for family members to visit them.\n\nAfter World War II, the world, having seen the ugliness of war, came together to pass one of the most important documents of our time - Universal Declaration on Human Rights. This agreement, which was signed by the major powers of the world, called for the protection and safety of all human beings irrespective of their location and circumstances. It also calls for the protection of the rights of individuals to a \"fair trial\". Article 2:\nEveryone is entitled to all the rights and freedoms set forth in this Declaration, without distinction of any kind, such as race, color, sex, language, religion, political or other opinions, national or social origin, property, birth or other status. Furthermore, no distinction shall be made on the basis of the political, jurisdictional, or international status of the country or territory to which a person belongs, whether it be independent, trust, non-self-governing or under any other limitation of sovereignty.The declaration Human Rights agreement was signed prior to the independence of Indonesia in 1949, however, as a member state of the United Nations, Indonesia is - by default and by virtue of that membership - bound by that agreement to respect and protect the rights of Indonesians. Since the Suharto regime rose to power in the 1967, rights of all citizens were never protected instead they were discarded whenever they run counter to the will of the regime. In 1989, Dr. Wainggai found himself in the same predicament.\n\nIn April 1989, West Papuans gathered to witness one of their heroes - Dr. Thom - taking on the full force of the Indonesian jurisprudence. According to Asia Watch, Dr. Thom was tried by the district court in Jayapura, in the months of April and June, in hearings that defied commonsense as it became transparent even to the unlearned that the Indonesian government (court) were pursuing long prison term against Dr. Thom even if it means violating common civil rights he was entitled to it. The court room was packed as indigenous people gathered to hear the proceedings. In June, however, the numbers of West Papuans who showed up fell dramatically because of political intimidation; police fired in the air and attendees were subjected to physical rough inspection.\n\nThe Act of Free Choice held West Papua in 1969 was a highly controversial election. To West Papuan nationalists, the failure to consult them and the lack of equal representations at the polls was a slap in the face of Democracy. Lack of transparency on the part of the UN made that plebiscite a mere scam coated in the name of Democracy. The apparent disregard of the rights of West Papuans in the execution of this plebiscite led to the formation of the Organisasi Papua Merdeka. Sympathizers and loosely associated groups often clashed with Indonesian police in violent struggles for control.\n\nIntellectual leaders such as Dr. Thom, however, preferred to challenge the legality of the acquisition of West Papua by pointing out the inconsistencies and discrepancies within the government policies and national statues (constitution). They preferred intellectual rational debate based on the reading of the laws. Asian Watch cited an event that demonstrated this new approach. Prior to the public demonstration at the stadium, Dr. Thom dispatched supporters to notify the Indonesian authority of his planned public declaration of West Melanesian independence and the location of the event, which essentially eradicate state's claim of conspiracy to overthrow the government. This new method of non-violent approach to Indonesian's claim over West Papua, made the state case against Dr. Thom extremely fluid and fundamentally weak. The state could not charge Dr. Thom with conspiracy to overthrow the government by force, nor did they have any evidence to just charge him for violence, public disturbance or obstruction of justice because his movement was completely devoid of violence and public disturbance.\n\nDr. Thom's movement was not only unique to the OPM's struggle, but one that renewed the call for dialogue and reasonable debate over facts and mere claims - a call to revisit the legality of the 1969 election. He apparently borrowed the Mahatma Gandhi and Martin Luther King style approach to the struggles of West Papuans. Indonesia saw him as extremely dangerous. \n\nOn September 7, 1989, Dr. Wainggai was sentenced to 20 years in prison. It is obvious from this Asia Watch report that the Indonesian government wanted to convict Dr. Wainggai at all costs, even if means bending and ignoring his rights to a fair trial. The report summed up the trial this way: \"The Trial was marked by the irregularity that characterized all Indonesian political trials, including restricted access by lawyers to their client, insufficient materials to prepare the defense, failure to call defense witnesses and limited time for cross examination.\"\n\nDr. Thom was held in a prison in West Papua for eight years, while his wife was kept in a separate prison designed for women. The couple were held in Jayapura prison from 1988 to 1990 before the Suharto regime relocated them to Jakarta amidst continual violent protests by West Papuan separatists. The conditions were absolutely harsh, but they had family and West Papua loyalists and die-hard nationalists visited him often.\n\nDr. Thom was sent to LP Cipinang prison, while his wife was transferred to Tangerang prison in Jakarta - the capital city of Indonesia.\n\nWhile the conditions in the state penitentiary in Jakarta were comparatively better to that in Jayapura, West Papua, Dr. Thom's healthy gradually deteriorated. Keeping the Wainggai's in Jakarta made it extremely complicated for the Wainggai family to visit them on a regular basis. On March 12, 1996, six years after his transfer to Jakarta, Dr. Thom succumbed to the illness he suffered; he died in jail.\nSince the Indonesian government did not provide adequate explanation as to the true cause of his Dr. Thom's death, relatives in West Papua believed he died by poison. They believe that Dr. Thom was deliberately positioned - a position that the Council on Foreign Relations echoed in its finding while investigating the issues of West Papua.\n\nAccording to reports, Dr. Thom returned from United States in late 1987 and worked as a lecturer at the Cenderawasih University, West Papua. He was also elevated to a senior position in the \"Provincial Planning\" office in Jayapura. What triggered his radical move to declare West Papua an independent state remained a debatable issue. It is also debatable why he only planned with a few people prior to the demonstration at the Mandala National Stadium where he was arrested. Some suggested that Dr. Thom may have been unhappy and decided to take his personal anger to the national arena. Jones Sidney of Asia Watch provided a possible explanation for Dr. Thom's decision. According to Sidney, Dr. Thom had a personal goal that was to lead West Papua - formerly Irian Jaya - as governor. In 1987, he garnered enough support to run as a candidate in the 1987 governor's election. Unfortunately, he only received a few votes. Sidney pointed to a popular view that he may have taken his personal dissatisfaction too far. This view suggested that Dr. Thom's decision to declare West Melanesia as an independent state came to being after the election, however, it didn't explain why Indonesian locked Dr. Thom up when he returned from Okayama University, Japan, for six months years back. It seems that Dr. Thom had held this position prior to 1987.\n\nAnother \"theory\" which emerged after Dr. Thom suddenly died in jail, after only serving only nine years of his 20 years prison term, is that the Indonesian authority poisoned Dr. Thom. This theory is also widely accepted by authors and foreign reporters as the cause of Dr. Thom's death. For instance, Denise C. Blair and David L. Philips wrote that Dr. Thom died in prison from \"food poisoning\" in 1996. However, they failed to provide evidence to support that claim. Furthermore, the materials available contain little substantive evidence to support this claim. It may have emerged as West Papuans tried to make sense of what happened to their leader. On the other hand, Indonesia's explanation also seemed sketchy. To this day, it remains somewhat vague to say with all certainty that Dr. Thom died of food poisoning; there must be hard-evidence to support this claim, so far, there's little.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13773771", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13773771", "title": "Transient-key cryptography", "text": "Transient-key cryptography\n\nTransient-key cryptography is a form of public-key cryptography wherein keypairs are generated and assigned to brief intervals of time instead of to individuals or organizations, and the blocks of cryptographic data are chained through time. In a transient-key system, private keys are used briefly and then destroyed, which is why it is sometimes nicknamed “disposable crypto.” Data encrypted with a private key associated with a specific time interval can be irrefutably linked to that interval, making transient-key cryptography particularly useful for digital trusted timestamping.\n\nBoth public-key and transient-key systems can be used to generate digital signatures that assert that a given piece of data has not changed since it was signed. But the similarities end there.\nIn a traditional public key system, the public/private keypair is typically assigned to an individual, server, or organization. Data signed by a private key asserts that the signature came from the indicated source. Keypairs persist for years at a time, so the private component must be carefully guarded against disclosure; in a public-key system, anyone with access to a private key can counterfeit that person's digital signature. \nIn transient-key systems, however, the keypair is assigned to a brief interval of time, not to a particular person or entity. Data signed by a specific private key becomes associated with a specific time and date. A keypair is active only for a few minutes, after which the private key is permanently destroyed. Therefore, unlike public-key systems, transient-key systems do not depend upon the long-term security of the private keys.\n\nIn a transient-key system, the source of time must be a consistent standard understood by all senders and receivers. Since a local system clock may be changed by a user, it is never used as a source of time. \nInstead, data is digitally signed with a time value derived from Universal Coordinated Time (UTC) accurate to within a millisecond, in accordance with the ANSI ASC X9.95 standard for Trusted Timestamping. \nWhenever a time interval in a transient-key system expires, a new public/private keypair is generated, and the private key from the previous interval is used to digitally certify the new public key. The old private key is then destroyed. This \"key-chaining\" system is the immediate ancestor of the Blockchain technology in vogue today.\nFor the new interval, time values are obtained from a trusted third-party source, and specific moments in time can be interpolated in between received times by using a time-biasing method based on the internal system timer. If a trusted time source cannot be obtained or is not running within specified tolerances, transient private keys are not issued. In that case, the time interval chain is terminated, and a fresh one is begun. The old and new chains are connected through network archives, which enable all servers to continue to verify the data integrity through time of protected data, regardless of how often the chain must be restarted.\nThe start times of the chain and of each interval can be coupled together to form an unbroken sequence of public keys, which can be used for the following:\nAs an extra security measure, all requests for signatures made during an interval are stored in a log that is concatenated and is itself appended to the public key at the start of the next interval. This mechanism makes it impossible to insert new “signed events” into the interval chain after the fact.\n\nThrough independently operating servers, cross-certification can provide third-party proof of the validity of a time interval chain and irrefutable evidence of consensus on the current time. Transient-key cryptographic systems display high Byzantine fault tolerance. A web of interconnected cross-certifying servers in a distributed environment creates a widely witnessed chain of trust that is as strong as its strongest link. By contrast, entire hierarchies of traditional public key systems can be compromised if a single private key is exposed. \nAn individual transient key interval chain can be cross-certified with other transient key chains and server instances. Through cross-certification, Server A signs Server B's interval chain, the signed data of which is the interval definition. In effect, the private keys from Server B are used to sign the public keys of Server A. In the diagram, a server instance is cross-certified with two other server instances (blue and orange).\n\nCross-certification requires that the timestamp for the interval agree with the timestamp of the cross-certifying server within acceptable tolerances, which are user-defined and typically a few hundred milliseconds in duration.\n\nAlong with intervals, cross-certifications are stored in a network archive. Within a transient-key network, the archive is a logical database that can be stored and replicated on any system to enable verification of data that has been timestamped and signed by transient keys. A map of the set of accessible archives is stored within every digital signature created in the system. Whenever cross-certifications are completed at the beginning of an interval, the archive map is updated and published to all servers in the network.\n\nDuring an interval, the transient private key is used to sign data concatenated with trusted timestamps and authenticity certificates. To verify the data at a later time, a receiver accesses the persistent public key for the appropriate time interval. The public key applied to the digital signature can be passed through published cryptographic routines to unpack the hash of the original data, which is then compared against a fresh hash of the stored data to verify data integrity. If the signature successfully decrypts using a particular interval's published public key, the receiver can be assured that the signature originated during that time period. If the decrypted and fresh hashes match, the receiver can be assured that the data has not been tampered with since the transient private key created the timestamp and signed the data. \nTransient-key cryptography was invented in 1997 by Dr. Michael D. Doyle of Eolas Technologies Inc. and later acquired by and productized by ProofSpace, Inc. It is protected under US Patents #6,381,696, 7,017,046, 7,047,415, & 7,210,035, and has been included in the ANSI ASC X9.95 standard for Trusted Timestamping. Transient-key cryptography is the predecessor to Forward secrecy. Despite the appearance that the Bitcoin blockchain technology was derived from Transient-key cryptography, Dr. Doyle has publicly denied he is Satoshi Nakamoto.\n\n"}
{"id": "422715", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=422715", "title": "UCAS", "text": "UCAS\n\nThe Universities and Colleges Admissions Service (UCAS ) is a UK-based organisation whose main role is to operate the application process for British universities. It operates as an independent charity, funded by fees charged to applicants and to universities, plus advertising income, and was formed in 1992 through the merger of the former university admissions system UCCA and the former polytechnics admissions system PCAS.\n\nServices provided by UCAS include several online application portals, a number of search tools and free information and advice directed at various audiences, including students considering higher education, students with pending applications to higher education institutes, parents and legal guardians of applicants, school and Further Education college staff involved in helping students apply and providers of higher education (universities and HE colleges).\n\nWhile UCAS is best known for its undergraduate application service (the main UCAS scheme), it also operates a number of other admissions services:\n\nUCAS is based near Marle Hill in Cheltenham at the junction of the B4075 (\"New Barn Lane\") and the A435 (\"Evesham Road\"), near Cheltenham Racecourse and a park and ride. It is situated just inside the parish of Prestbury, Gloucestershire.\n\nUCAS was formed in 1992 by the merger of Universities Central Council on Admissions (UCCA) and Polytechnics Central Admissions System (PCAS) and the name UCAS is a contraction of the former acronyms UCCA and PCAS. An early proposal was made for the new merged body to be called PUCCA, but this was never adopted.\n\nUCCA was the older of the two bodies, having been formed in 1961 to provide a clearing house for university applications in the United Kingdom. It was created in response to concerns during the 1950s that the increase in University applications was unmanageable using the systems then in place, where each student applied individually to as many institutions as they chose. This concern led to the Committee of Vice-Chancellors and Principals (CVCP) setting up an ad hoc committee in 1957 to review the matter; this committee in its Third Report of January 1961 recommended the setting up of a central agency, which subsequently became known as UCCA. Its First and Second Reports had already made a number of recommendations aimed at harmonising admissions procedures across different universities.\n\nThe name UCCA referred originally to the management board (the Central Council) overseeing the new process, but soon came to refer to the organisation responsible for its day-to-day operation. This was based initially in London, and moved to Cheltenham, Gloucestershire in 1968. The new scheme had a pilot year handling a subset of applications for entry in 1963, and its first full year of operation handled admissions for 1964.\n\nThe scheme was essentially a collaborative venture between independent universities, and membership was voluntary. Most English universities joined from the start. Oxford and Cambridge joined (with slightly modified procedures) for the 1966 entry; the London medical and dental schools, as well as Belfast and Stirling for 1967. In 1965 UCCA handled 80,033 applicants, rising to 114,289 1969. The acceptance rate of UCCA applicants by universities in 1969 stood at just over 50%.\n\nInitially, processing of applications was carried out using punched card technology. In 1964, UCCA started using the services of a computer bureau with a Univac machine; in 1967 it installed its own Univac computer.\n\nAlthough the polytechnics were degree-teaching institutions, through the CNAA awards system, they were not eligible for admission to UCCA as it was reserved only for universities with degree awarding powers. Despite this the Polytechnics were involved as early as 1972 in discussions with UCCA and the Central Register and Clearing House about the possible future shape of one or more admissions systems. At this stage applicants dealt directly with each individual polytechnic and the polytechnics themselves were strongly regional or local in their appeal. A study in 1977 found that between sixty and seventy per cent of those admitted to a polytechnic had applied to that institution only, and that forty per cent of admissions to polytechnics resulted from applications made in August or September of the year of entry.\n\nIn 1983 the Committee of Directors of Polytechnics began negotiations with UCCA to share its computing, technical and office facilities in Cheltenham to establish a course entrance system, based on the existing model used by UCCA. A grant of £210,000, from the British Department for Education and Science, was awarded to set up a new unified admissions system, provisionally called PUCCA. However, instead of a unified system for both the universities and polytechnics a separate system for polytechnics emerged from the negotiations, modelled on UCCA, but known as PCAS. Applicants to courses were given the option to apply separately for universities or polytechnics, or for both.\n\nThe PCAS system came into effect in 1985. It was led by its first Chief Executive, Tony Higgins, and in the first year it handled around 140,000 applications to polytechnic courses, of whom 40,000 a year went on to study at polytechnics.\n\nAlthough many polytechnics offered art and design programmes, and some also offered teacher training courses, these admissions systems remained outside PCAS. Art and Design admissions worked to a later timetable as a result of the role Art Foundation courses had in developing a student's proposed specialism (painting, sculpture, graphic design and so on). Work was furthermore generally submitted before a decision was made on whether to interview. However means of absorbing the Art and Design Admissions Registry into UCAS were found by 1996.\n\nAlthough the aim to create a unified application system for universities and polytechnics was not achieved in 1985, the Chief Executive of PCAS, Tony Higgins, continued to push for the merger of PCAS with UCCA. In 1992, following the change of status and name of most polytechnics to universities, the two bodies combined under Higgins's leadership. Initially the application form was branded jointly UCCA/PCAS, but in 1994 the new merged body was officially renamed UCAS.\n\nIn 2015, the Amsterdam Fashion Academy became the first non-UK educational establishment admitted to UCAS.\n\nSince the vast majority of UK universities and higher education colleges use the UCAS service, all students planning to study for an undergraduate degree in the UK must apply through UCAS – including home students (generally British and EU students) and international students (non-EU).\n\nTo apply to university, students must submit a single application via UCAS' online Apply service. The application itself requires the student to register to the service, giving a buzzword if applying through a centre, fill in personal details, write a personal statement and choose up to five courses to apply to, in no order of preference. They must then pay an application fee and obtain a reference before submitting their application online by the appropriate deadline. The application is then forwarded by UCAS to the universities and colleges that the students have applied to, who then decide whether to make students an offer of a place. Universities give students either an unconditional offer, where the student will receive a place regardless, or a conditional offer, where the student will receive a place subject to their grades being met.\n\nFor applications to universities in the UK, entry requirements for individual courses can either be based on grades of qualifications (e.g. AAA at GCE A-Level, a score of 43/45 in the IB International Baccalaureate Diploma, or a music diploma) or in UCAS points (e.g. 300 UCAS points from 3 A-Levels or an IB score equal to 676 UCAS points). To convert individual scores or grades of specific qualifications into UCAS points, UCAS has created tariff tables indicating indexes and ratios of UCAS points and results of qualifications. For example, an A* at A-level is worth 56 UCAS points, an A 48, a B 40 and so on. For the IB, a score of 45 equals 720 UCAS points, a score of 40 is 611 points, a score of 35 is 501 etc.\n\nOnce logged into \"Apply\", applicants complete a number of personal details – including their current qualifications, employment and criminal history, national identity, ethnic origin and student finance arrangements. Applicants also have the option to declare if they have any individual needs – such as any disabilities; or if they’re a care leaver.\n\nThe personal statement is an integral part of the application. It gives candidates a chance to write about their achievements, their interest in the subject they are applying for, as well as their suitability, interest, and commitment to higher education. Personal statements can contain a maximum of 4,000 characters (including spaces) or 47 lines – whichever comes first, with a maximum of 94 characters per line. A research study conducted by UCAS with over 300,000 personal statements of students revealed that the personal statement (among the student's grades) is the most important part within the application process.\n\nThe final part of the process involves paying an application fee and obtaining a written reference. The process varies depending on whether a student is applying through a school, college or UCAS centre or as an individual.\n\nFor the former, applications are sent to the school, college or centre, who may ask applicants to pay their fee to them (which they then pass to UCAS) or pay UCAS directly, before they provide a reference and submit the form on the student’s behalf. If applications are sent to the school, college or centre, then they will attach a reference to send to UCAS. Applicants are responsible for ensuring that their school, college or centre submits the application before the appropriate deadline for their courses.\n\nIndividual applicants should request their reference – from a teacher, adviser or professional who knows them – before paying the fee and submitting the form themselves.\n\nFor most current applications, the cost per student is £13 to apply for a single course, or £24 for two or more courses.\n\nDepending on the subject and on the university that they are applying for, candidates must submit their application by the relevant submission deadline to ensure their application is given equal consideration by the higher education providers they are applying to.\n\n\nIt is possible for students to submit applications up until 30 June each year; but a late submission may not be given the same consideration as those submitted before the deadline. Applications received after 30 June are placed directly into Clearing.\n\nStudents must adhere to their appropriate deadline for their course. Whilst UCAS advises universities and colleges to send their decisions by the end of March, the universities have the responsibility of responding to applicants and may operate in their own timescale. Many universities (like the University of Oxford and the University of Cambridge) require that applicants come to an interview before offers are received; or they may be asked to submit an additional piece of work before receiving an offer.\n\nOffers are made through UCAS' Track service by universities and are either unconditional or conditional, where the latter means that the student will receive a place dependent on exam performance. Applicants also find out if they have been rejected through UCAS Track.\n\nOnce an applicant has received a reply from their choices, they must reply to their university before the deadline in May. Applicants normally choose two offers through UCAS, one as their firm choice and one as their insurance choice. A firm choice means that, if the student receives their grades required, then the student will receive an unconditional offer. An insurance choice means that, if the firm choice university rejected them due to their grades, then the student will get into that university, if they have met the terms and conditions of the insurance choice's conditions.\n\nIf an applicant uses all of their five choices, and does not receive any offers, or they decide to decline the offers they receive, they can apply for additional courses using UCAS' Extra service. This allows them to keep applying, one course at a time, until they receive an offer they're happy with. Extra runs between mid-February and the end of June. If they don't get an offer during this time, they have the option to enter into Clearing when it opens in July. \n\nWhen applicants receive their examination results, they will know if they have met the conditions of their firm and insurance choices. Universities give out unconditional offers and rejections when applicants receive their examination results.\n\nThose that do have their offers confirmed are invited to accept a place on the course they applied to, which is called \"confirmation\". Many universities and colleges still accept students that narrowly miss their offer conditions.\n\nThose that do not meet their \"firm\" and \"insurance\" offer conditions are eligible to use UCAS' Clearing service – which enables unplaced students to apply for courses with vacancies directly to the university. They do so by searching for an available course, using the UCAS search tool, and contacting each university or college concerned for a place.\n\nAlthough clearing is most commonly used following results days in August, it opens at the start of July each year and closes in late September.\n\nIf applicants exceed the conditions of their firm offer, they have the option to search for a place at another university or college while retaining their original offer. This is known as \"adjustment\", a service which is available between 14 and 31 August.\n\nUCAS operates Conservatoires UK Admissions Service (formally known as CUKAS) in conjunction with Conservatoires UK, managing applications for both undergraduate and postgraduate music, dance and drama courses at nine UK conservatoires:\n\n\nStudents must apply through the online CUKAS service by:\n\nUCAS Teacher Training (UTT) is an application service for postgraduates that want to become teachers. UTT replaced UCAS' previous GTTR teacher training application service and expanded its remit to provide centralised admissions for School Direct and school-centred initial teacher training (SCITT) programmes.\n\nUTT programmes are either university/college-taught or school-based, and typically last for one academic year; usually leading to a PGCE qualification.\n\nStudents begin their application in the autumn for programmes starting in the following academic year. They start by using Apply 1 – which allows them to choose up to three programmes. Training providers then have 40 working days to make an offer. During this time they will invite candidates they're considering offering a place to for an interview. At the end of the 40-day period, students will have responses from their three choices and will have 10 working days to reply to any offers.\n\nHowever, if students don't get offered a place using Apply 1, or they choose to decline all of the offers they receive, they can use Apply 2 to apply for new places,adding one choice at a time, until they receive an offer. \n\nUCAS Postgraduate (also known as UKPASS) is UCAS' postgraduate admissions service. It was introduced with the objective to offer students access to over 20,000 courses at 18 participating universities and colleges in England, Scotland and Wales – both taught and research courses leading to a variety of qualifications – including MA, MSc, MBA and LLM.\n\nUCAS has launched UCAS Progress, a service enabling GCSE students to search and apply for post-16 work and education-based training courses – including academic and vocational courses (such as A levels and BTECs), as well as Apprenticeship and Traineeship programmes. \n\nThe scheme is free for students to use and is implemented as a national service – listing post-16 opportunities from all across the UK.\n\nUCAS Progress also helps schools, colleges and local authorities address recruitment issues and statutory obligations resulting from raising the age of participation in secondary education; an initiative which legally obliges students to remain in full-time education or work-based training until the end of the academic year that they turn 17. However this is about to change after government reforms; when students will be required to remain in education or training until their 18th birthday.\n\nUCAS Media is a commercial enterprise that raises money by offering commercial organisations and education providers a channel to communicate with prospective students: in effect, it sells targeted advertising space.\n\nUCAS Media does not disclose information about applicants to its advertising clients. However, it does send advertisements to applicants on behalf of its clients, and is able to target specific groups such as 'early adopters' or those located in a specific location.\n\nAll UCAS Media profits are fed back into the UCAS charity, much of which is gift aided. This reduces the fees paid by universities and by applicants for access to the UCAS service.\n\nUCAS Media has proven controversial among data privacy campaigners. In 2014 deputy director of Big Brother Watch, Emma Carr, was quoted as saying: \n\n\n"}
{"id": "32577324", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32577324", "title": "Xu Xing (philosopher)", "text": "Xu Xing (philosopher)\n\nXu Xing (;about 372 - 289 century BC) was a Chinese philosopher and one of the most notable advocates of Agriculturalism, a political philosophy that advocated peasant utopian communalism and egalitarianism. With a group of followers he settled in the state of Teng in about 315 BC. A disciple of his visited the Confucian philosopher Mencius, and a short report of their conversation discussing Xu Xing's philosophy survives.\n"}
{"id": "34599315", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34599315", "title": "Yi Cheol-seung", "text": "Yi Cheol-seung\n\nLee Chul-seung (or Yi Cheol-seung, Lee Chul-sung or Lee Chul Sung) (Hangul:, Hanja:李哲承; May 15, 1922 – February 27, 2016) was a South Korean 7-term National Assemblyman (lawmaker, conservative) and a founding father of the Republic of Korea after the Korean War (1950-1953). A political heavyweight, Lee was an independence and democracy fighter and leader; anti-communism; anti-military rule; anti-Japanese rule; an advocate of bipartisanship particularly when it came to national security; and an advocate of non-governmental organizations. After Korea was liberated from Japanese colonial rule in 1945, Lee \"led a student union that opposed a trusteeship, under which Korea would be governed by foreign powers after World War II, and entered politics in 1954 after winning a parliamentary seat.\" Lee and his two political rivals former President Kim Young-sam and former President Kim Dae-jung were famous for their political competition and the establishment and development of democracy in South Korea. He was given an honorable burial for his life contributions at the Seoul National Cemetery on March 2, 2016 where former South Korean presidents are also buried.\n\n\n1946 \n\n1954\n1958~1961\n1961\n1966\n1969\n1971~1973\n1973\n1975\n1976\n1978\n1984~\n1985\n1987\n\nOn May 16, 1961, Park Chung-hee, Kim Jong-pil, and Lee Nak-sun successfully staged a military coup d'etat. Immediately after, Park Chung-hee sent aides to try and win over key opposition lawmakers including Lee who rejected Park's request for help. Lee was forced to leave politics and went to the United States where he was vocally opposed to the military coup in Korea and studied Political Science at the University of Pennsylvania.\n\n1990\n1993\n1994~\n1995~\n1996~\n1998\n2005\n2007\n2011~2016\n\nLee died on February 27, 2016 at 03:45 KST, at Samsung Hospital in Seoul at the age of 94. A funeral was held for him on March 2, 2016 that began with a five-day wake and a police-escorted procession that led to the National Assembly and ended with a gun salute at the Seoul National Cemetery where he is buried along with former South Korean presidents.\n\n\n\n"}
