{"id": "18613326", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18613326", "title": "Abdel-Moniem El-Ganayni", "text": "Abdel-Moniem El-Ganayni\n\nDr. Abdel-Moniem ibn Ali El-Ganayni () is an Egyptian-born American nuclear physicist, former prison Imam, and an active member of the Pittsburgh Muslim community. In 2007 El-Ganayni's U.S. security clearance was revoked, and he subsequently lost his job as a senior scientist at Bettis Atomic Power Laboratory.\n\nEl-Ganayni was born in Minyat Samannoud, Egypt in 1950. His father, Sheikh Ali ibn Abdel-Moniem El-Ganayni (الشيخ علي بن عبدالمنعم الجنايني) was educated at the prestigious Al-Azhar University, where he completed his elementary, secondary, and high school studies. Sheikh Ali proceeded to the Al-Azhar Faculty of Islamic Law, where he completed the equivalent of a bachelor’s degree. He continued his studies to the graduate level, obtaining the equivalent of a Ph.D. in Islamic law (العالمية), and later a certification to practice law (إجازة القضاء الشرعي).\n\nIn 1973, Dr. Abdel-Moniem El-Ganayni obtained his Bachelor of Science in Physics from Ain Shams University in Cairo, Egypt. He went on to pursue a master's in Nuclear Physics and completed his degree in 1978.\n\nIn 1980 El-Ganayni moved to the United States to complete his Ph.D., obtaining a second master's degree in Nuclear Physics from the University of Pittsburgh in 1983. Between 1984 and 1989 El-Ganayni worked as a teaching assistant in the Department of Physics, and completed his Ph.D. in Atomic Physics in 1990. He became an American citizen in 1988.\n\nShortly after completing his graduate studies, El-Ganayni was hired by Westinghouse Electric Company, working in the Bettis Atomic Power Laboratory as a Senior Scientific Programmer, and later as a Senior Scientist. Throughout his employment at Bettis he received positive reviews, authored and coauthored a number of academic papers, and contributed to numerous projects.\n\nEl-Ganayni’s contributions were not limited to scientific endeavors; he is a founding member of the Islamic Center of Pittsburgh, served two terms as the center’s president, and helped to establish the mosque’s current location in Schenley Heights. For close to a decade, El-Ganayni worked and volunteered as an Imam at correctional facilities in both Ohio and Pennsylvania. Part of El-Ganayni’s prison outreach included the creation of the PA DOC Monitor, a website examining the condition, and necessary reform of the Department of Corrections.\n\nDr. El-Ganayni’s work at Bettis Atomic Power Laboratory required the possession of a Department of Energy (DOE) issued security clearance, enabling him to work with classified information. In October 2007 El-Ganayni’s security clearance was suspended, effectively barring him from any work at Bettis. DOE regulations stipulate that an individual may appeal a suspension, however El-Ganayni’s right to appeal was denied in May 2008 when Jeffery F. Kupfer, deputy secretary of the DOE, invoked national security, refusing to reveal the government’s allegations against Dr. El-Ganayni.\n\nThe suspension of El-Ganayni’s security clearance was prefaced by an interview with DOE security officials, and later the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI). In these interviews, questions were asked regarding El-Ganayni’s political beliefs, religious views, and his work as an Imam in the prison system. No questions related to his work or any potential breaches of security were asked in either interview.\n\nThe DOE officials instead focused on a seemingly innocent Islamic book entitled, “The Miracle of the Ant,” authored by Turkish Islamic publisher and author Harun Yahya; unbeknownst to El-Ganayni, the content of Yahya’s book was largely, if not completely duplicated from a Pulitzer Prize winning work entitled, “Journey to the Ants” published by Harvard University Press.\n\nDr. El-Ganayni distributed excerpts from book to prisoners (both Muslim and non-Muslim) while serving as an Imam at Forest State Correctional Institution. DOE officials expressed concern over a purely scientific description of ants’ biological defense mechanisms in a chapter entitled, “Defense and War Tactics” insinuating that El-Ganayni distributed this material with sinister intent, and subsequently questioned his allegiance to the United States of America. His supervisor at Forest, chaplaincy director Glenn McQuown reviewed the book and described it as “completely benign.”\n\nThe interviews also focused on El-Ganayni’s criticism of American foreign policy and the FBI’s mistreatment of Muslims after September 11, 2001. Specifically, El-Ganayni raised concern over an FBI raid of a Pittsburgh mosque during Friday prayers, where attendees were searched and forced to stand outside while being questioned. Revocation of El-Ganayni’s security clearance also may be related to his establishment of the PA DOC Monitor, a website and prison outreach program which critically examines the Pennsylvania Department of Corrections and its policies, insisting that drastic reform of the system is required for it to truly benefit prisoners and society at large.\n\nOn June 26, 2008 the American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU) with Schnader, Harrison, Segal, and Lewis as co-counsels filed a lawsuit on behalf of Dr. El-Ganayni alleging that the DOE revoked his clearance due to criticism of the FBI and U.S. foreign policy. The suit demands that the DOE reveal their allegations against El-Ganayni and restore due process, allowing him to contest any allegations made against him. A hearing date has not been set as of July 28, 2008.\n\nA motion for preliminary and permanent injunction against the U.S. Department of Energy and its acting director, Jeffrey Kupfer was filed on September 3, 2008 requesting the following:\n\n\nOn September 25, 2008 the DOE filed a motion to dismiss El-Ganayni's preliminary and permanent injunction. On October 14, 2008 Dr. El-Ganayni's attorneys filed a brief in opposition of the DOE's motion to dismiss.\n\nOn October 31, 2008 Judge Terrence F. McVerry stated that the court \"reluctantly concludes that it lacks subject-matter jurisdiction to adjudicate the claims made in Counts I and II of the Complaint\" effectively granting the DOE's Motion to Dismiss in relation to Counts I and II. However, the court requested supplemental briefing regarding Count III, specifically concerning the DOE's interpretation, application, and adherence to executive procedure. Briefs from both the DOE and El-Ganayni's defense regarding Count III were submitted on November 14, 2008.\n\nJudge McVerry ruled in favor of Dr. El-Ganayni and refused to dismiss Count III on November 20, 2008. In his court order McVerry stated that, \"[the] Defendants’ interpretation [of their own regulations] is not consistent with the actual text of the Executive Orders.\" This ruling was based on a DOE regulation stating that a clearance can only be revoked by a DOE agency head, not simply a Deputy Secretary. Subsequently, November 24, 2008, a day before a scheduled hearing to discuss pending motions, future direction of the litigation, and the possible scheduling of a preliminary injunction hearing, DOE secretary Samuel Bodman signed a revocation of El-Ganayni's clearance citing national security and the government requested a dismissal of the case. This dismissal was granted , however Dr. El-Ganayni appealed his case to the 3rd U.S. Circuit Court. Dr. El-Ganayni's brief for appeal of the dismissal was filed March 19, 2009 and a decision was made in the DOE's favor on January 11, 2010. In summation, the judges stated that the DOE is by extension part of the government's Executive Branch, and therefore the 3rd Circuit has no jurisdiction over the matter.\n\nOn November 26, 2008 El-Ganayni and his wife left to Egypt after residing in the United States for 28 years. El-Ganayni stated that he would rather return to his birthplace than live in America as a second-class citizen and that he \"feel[s] very sad that the American people have lost a good bit of their Constitution,\" quoting John Adams who said, \"once you lose your rights and liberties, it's very hard to get them back.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "6452828", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6452828", "title": "Alternate director", "text": "Alternate director\n\nAn alternate director is an individual who is appointed to attend a board meeting on behalf of the director of a company where the principal director would be otherwise unable to attend. The law relating to alternate directors varies from country to country, but in most jurisdictions, the alternate director has the same powers to attend, speak and vote at meetings as the principal director would have had, had the alternate not been appointed.\n\nIn some jurisdictions, the alternate must also be a director in his or her own right (so in effect, there would be one less person at the meeting, but the director who had also been appointed as an alternate would carry two votes). However such structures are not common in developed legal systems.\n\nThe appointment of a temporary alternate is one of the few exceptions to the general rule that the office of a director is not assignable and non-delegable.\n"}
{"id": "2335049", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2335049", "title": "Association of Corporate Counsel", "text": "Association of Corporate Counsel\n\nThe Association of Corporate Counsel (ACC), founded as the American Corporate Counsel Association (ACCA) in 1983, is a professional association serving the business interests of attorneys who practice in the legal departments of corporations, associations and other private-sector organizations around the world. ACC states that it has more than 40,000 members employed by over 10,000 organizations in 85 countries.\n\nACC members collaborate through regional chapters and practice area committees. ACC has more than 55 chapters around the world. In 2015, the Australian Corporate Counsel Association joined ACC to form ACC Australia. Other recent expansions, ACC Alberta, ACC Middle East and ACC Singapore, were established in June 2014, May 2014 and July 2013, respectively.\n\nACC serves as the \"voice of the in-house bar\" on issues of importance to in-house counsel, such as multi jurisdictional practice, attorney-client/solicitor-client privilege and right to provide pro bono services.\n\nThe association publishes the magazine \"ACC Docket\" and arranges the ACC Annual Meeting.\n"}
{"id": "36790862", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36790862", "title": "Bergordnung", "text": "Bergordnung\n\nThe Bergordnung were the mining regulations or law enacted in order to exercise the royal mining rights or \"Bergregal\" in central Europe in medieval times. \n\n"}
{"id": "219855", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219855", "title": "Best interests", "text": "Best interests\n\nBest interests or best interests of the child is a child rights principle, which derives from Article 3 of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, which says that “in all actions concerning children, whether undertaken by public or private social welfare institutions, courts of law, administrative authorities or legislative bodies, the best interests of the child shall be a primary consideration”. Assessing the best interests of a child means to evaluate and balance “all the elements necessary to make a decision in a specific situation for a specific individual child or group of children”.\n\nAccording to the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, assessing the best interests of a child means to evaluate and balance “all the elements necessary to make a decision in a specific situation for a specific individual child or group of children”. Due to the diversity of factors to consider, usually more than one profession or institution is involved in the assessment process, bringing together various perspectives and areas of expertise from the country of origin and destination and, in particular, the perspective of the child.\n\nThe following aspects are relevant for the best interests of the child: \n\nBest interests’ assessments can be conducted informally and ad hoc or as formalised processes. Assessments look at everyday matters and decisions with more or less severe implications for the child. The best interests of a child may change significantly over time as children grow and their situations and capacities evolve, so their best interests’ may need to be reassessed periodically.\n\nBest interests’ determinations are formal processes conducted with the involvement of public authorities and professional decision makers. The objective of the best interests’ determination is to reach a decision based on national law that safeguards the rights of the child and promotes her or his well-being, safety and development. Decision-makers weigh and balance all the relevant factors of the case, giving due consideration to all the rights of the child and the obligations of public authorities and service providers towards the child. The objective of the best interests’ determination process is the identification of a durable solution. Best interests’ determinations are carried out when the issues at stake are expected to have significant implications on the child's present and future life.\n\nBest interests’ assessments aim to gather all the facts needed to arrive at a conclusion about the impact of any action, measure or decision on the child and her or his future. The central perspective is that of the girl or boy concerned. A trust-based relationship and communicating effectively in the child's main language enables the child to exercise his or her right to be heard. Comprehensive assessments involve a multi-disciplinary team of qualified professionals.\n\nA comprehensive best interests’ assessment and determination process addresses all of the following: \n\nProcedural safeguards and documentation in best interests’ determinations include: \n\nThe different elements considered in an assessment and determination of the best interests of a child may appear to be competing or in contradiction. \nPotential conflicts are solved on a case-by-case basis. The right of the child to have her or his best interests taken as a primary consideration means that the child's interests have high priority and are not just one of several considerations. A larger weight is attached to what serves the child best:\n\nReference to the best interests of the child has been introduced into relevant EU laws and policies, including in the context of migration, asylum, trafficking and potential return. The wording attached to the best interests’ principle ranges between the imperative “must” and “shall” to the less prescriptive “should”. \n\nThe Finnish Child Welfare Act provides that the best interests of the child needs to be a primary consideration in the determination of welfare measures in response to the child's needs. The Act defines the key elements that need to be taken into consideration for a best interests’ determination: \n\nThis provision offers legally binding guidance to professionals on how the concept of the best interests of the child should be understood. It raises awareness of the complexity of the issues under consideration and makes reference to important rights of the child such as the right to education and development, safety and well-being, respect for the child's views and the child's cultural and other backgrounds.\n\nSince the US has not yet ratified the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, which is the central instrument defining and providing the right of the best interests of the child for much of the world, a different set of laws, precedents, and applications apply.\n\nThe use of the best interests doctrine represented a 20th-century shift in public policy. The best interests doctrine is an aspect of \"parens patriae,\" and in the United States it has replaced the Tender Years Doctrine, which rested on the basis that children are not resilient, and almost any change in a child's living situation would be detrimental to their well-being.\n\nUntil the early 1900s, fathers were given custody of the children in case of divorce. Many U.S. states then shifted from this standard to one that completely favored the mother as the primary caregiver. In the 1970s, the Tender Years Doctrine was replaced by the best interests of the child as determined by family courts. Because many family courts continued to give great weight to the traditional role of the mother as the primary caregiver, application of this standard in custody historically tended to favor the mother of the children.\n\nThe \"best interests of the child\" doctrine is sometimes used in cases where non-parents, such as grandparents, ask a court to order non-parent visitation with a child. Some parents, usually those who are not awarded custody, say that using the \"best interests of the child\" doctrine in non-parent visitation cases fails to protect a fit parent's fundamental right to raise their child in the manner they see fit. Troxel v Granville, 530 US 57; 120 S Ct 2054; 147 LEd2d 49 (2000).\n\nThe \"best interest of the child\" doctrine is largely seen in child welfare laws and the paramount consideration of the court when making decisions with regards to abused and neglected children. The Adoption Assistance and Child Welfare Act of 1980 requires that, “…each child has a case plan designed to achieve placement in the least restrictive (most family like) setting available and in close proximity to the parents' home, consistent with the best interest and special needs of the child.” Although the satutue does not define the \"best interest of the child\", best interest is referenced in two other sections. Moreover, several states have chosen to statutorily define or reference the \"best interest of the child\", and require the courts within those jurisdictions to consider specific factors.\n\nUse in Family Law\n\nThe term is used as doctrine used by courts to determine a wide range of issues relating to the well-being of children. In the application of family law, one of the most common of these issues concern questions that arise upon the divorce or separation of the children's parents. Examples include:\n\n\nIn proceedings involving divorce or the dissolution of a common-law marriage or a civil union, family courts are directed to assess the best interests of any children of these unions. However, this doctrine is not used to settle custody matters involving urban and minority residents in cities such as Philadelphia, PA for example where the tender years doctrine is still in effect.\n\nThe determination is also used in proceedings which determine legal obligations and entitlements, such as when a child is born outside of marriage, when grandparents assert rights with respect to their grandchildren, and when biological parents assert rights with respect to a child who was given up for adoption.\n\nIt is the doctrine usually employed in cases regarding the potential emancipation of minors. Courts will use this doctrine when called upon to determine who should make medical decisions for a child where the parents disagree with healthcare providers or other authorities.\n\nIn determining the best interests of the child or children in the context of a separation of the parents, the court may order various investigations to be undertaken by social workers, Family Court Advisors from CAFCASS, psychologists and other forensic experts, to determine the living conditions of the child and his custodial and non-custodial parents. Such issues as the stability of the child's life, links with the community, and stability of the home environment provided by each parent may be considered by a court in deciding the child's residency in custody and visitation proceedings. In English law, section 1(1) Children Act 1989 makes the interests of any child the paramount concern of the court in all proceedings and, having indicated in s1(2) that delay is likely to prejudice the interests of any child, it requires the court to consider the \"welfare checklist\", i.e. the court must consider:\n\nThe welfare checklist considers the needs, wishes and feelings of the child and young person and this analysis is vital to ensure that the human rights of children are always in the forefront of all consideration. The welfare checklist provides a comprehensive list of issues that need to be considered to ensure that young people who come into court proceedings are safeguarded fully and their rights as citizens are promoted.\n\nUse in Immigration Law\n\nTo a much lesser degree the principal of the \"best interest of the child\" has been utilized in immigration law as it relates to child migrants.\n\nThe Best Interests standard has received considerable criticism by certain groups within the privacy rights and family law reform movement, particularly with regard to how it unlawfully marginalizes children from one of their parents absent a compelling government interest, and often cultivates protracted litigation. Critics argue that a higher evidentiary standard should be applied to fit parents, and that the Best Interests standard should only be applied in cases where a termination of parental rights has already occurred.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39153738", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39153738", "title": "Bled agreement (1938)", "text": "Bled agreement (1938)\n\nThe Bled agreement of 22 August 1938 revoked some of the restrictions placed on Hungary by the Treaty of Trianon for its involvement on the losing side in World War I. Representatives of Hungary and three of its neighbours—the so-called \"Little Entente\" of Czechoslovakia, Romania and Yugoslavia—first met at Bled in Yugoslavia on 21 August. The next day they announced a joint renunciation of the use of force in their mutual relations, and the Little Entente recognised Hungary as having an equal right to armaments. This gave Hungary legal cover for the re-creation of its air force, already begun in secret, and the increase of its army in manpower, guns, and munitions.\n\nThere had been efforts at rapprochement between Hungary and Czechoslovakia in February and June 1937, in which the latter had asked for a mutual non-aggression pact as part of any deal recognising Hungary's right to re-arm itself. As this re-armament was already occurring on a limited scale without protest from Czechoslovakia or her allies, Hungary rejected her overtures. Two events convinced the Hungarians to pursue an accord with the Little Entente. The first was the Salonika Agreement of 31 July, whereby Bulgaria had obtained permission to re-arm from the members of the Balkan Pact (including Yugoslavia and Romania). The second was Romania's enactment in early August of minority protection statute that was more liberal than Hungary had expected. Thus, although Hungary was willing to negotiate non-aggression and re-armament with the Entente as a unit, she reserved the question of minorities to individual agreements with the member states.\n\nThe timing of the agreement was related to the scheduled launching of the German cruiser \"Prinz Eugen\" by the Hungarian first lady, Magdolna Purgly, on 22 August. The Hungarian government believed that their position \"vis-à-vis\" Germany would be strengthened if they had a pact with the Little Entente completed when officials from both countries met in Kiel for the launch.\n\nThe accord was the biggest piece of international news in the evening papers in London the night of 22 August. It was also praised in the press in France and the Little Entente. It was met with anger by the German government. The actual agreement was complicated and incomplete. Although the question of the Hungarian minority in Romania had been resolved earlier in the month, the same question with Yugoslavia and Czechoslovakia was still open. On three points of dispute regarding, the Hungarians and Yugoslavs came to an understanding separate accords (appended to the general accord) were each initialed (but not signed). A final agreement between Hungary and Czechoslovakia on the minority question remained uninitialed because the latter could not satisfy the former's stronger demands against her. The Czechoslovak foreign minister, Kamil Krofta, informed the Yugoslavs, before the conference, that although it was \"a case of discrimination [against us] ... we wish to contribute to an agreement.\"\n\nThe result was that Hungary could come to a general agreement with all three of its neighbours, while holding up implementation with respect to only one, the one also neighbouring Germany, Czechoslovakia. Only Italy saw the Bled pact for what it was. The Italian foreign minister, Galeazzo Ciano, remarked that it \"marked a new phase in the crumbling of the Little Entente. Czechoslovakia is isolated. The French system of friendships is completely upset.\" The Bled conference itself was held without consulting either Italy or Austria, and was thus in violation of the Rome Protocols agreed to by the three powers in 1934, or of their supplementary agreements made during conferences at Rome (20–23 March 1936) and Vienna (11–12 November 1936). (At the latter, Hungary had received recognition that the Little Entente states had an interest in her rearmament.)\n\nOn 23 August, the Hungarian prime minister, Béla Imrédy, and foreign minister, Kálmán Kánya, met their German counterparts, Adolf Hitler and Joachim von Ribbentrop, at the naval review in Kiel. The Germans, especially Ribbentrop, were incensed at the recently published Bled agreement, since at the time Germany was contemplating war with Czechoslovakia. When on 25 August in Berlin Ribbentrop further pressured Kánya about Hungary's reaction to a German invasion of Czechoslovakia, the latter suggested that the Bled agreement could perhaps be invalidated by making demands on the Entente and that Hungary's armed forces would be sufficiently prepared to partake in a Czechoslovak conflict as early as 1 October. Hitler told Kánya directly that if Hungary wanted to benefit from the partition of Czechoslovakia, they must work towards making it happen, saying, \"He who wants to sit at the table must at least help in the kitchen.\" Hungary's military would certainly not be ready to participate in any conflict by October 1, as both governments must have known.\n\nThe method proposed by Kánya to the Germans for invalidating the Bled agreement was to \"make excessive demands on the matter of the [Hungarian] minorities in the Little Entente states\". On 1 September 1938, in Budapest, Imrédy gave an interview to a diplomatic correspondent of the \"Daily Telegraph\", in which (the \"Telegraph\" reported the next morning) he downplayed the significance of the agreement (as it had been reported by the London papers), because its full implementation would come about only when the question of Hungarian minorities had been settled.\n\nThe Bled agreement contains an early indication of the ebb of the League of Nations' prestige. The Permanent Council of the Little Entente recognised that \"in existing circumstances the League of Nations cannot completely carry out the tasks entrusted to it by the authors of the Covenant.\" A communiqué of the Yugoslav government, dated 31 August, clarified that Yugoslavia \"had not renounced her prior obligations\" by signing the Bled agreement, but Hermann Göring told the Hungarian government on 9 September that the Yugoslav regent, Prince Paul, had assured him that he would \"in no circumstances intervene against Hungary, not even if the latter got involved in a conflict with Czechoslovakia.\"\n\nAlmost from its signing, the Treaty of Trianon had been contravened by \"secret\" re-armament under tight budgetary constraints. This was in fact general knowledge, and Hungary's neighbours and the great powers looked the other way. The official Hungarian position was that she had a right to re-arm, but with the Bled agreement she obtained legal cover and the re-armament programme could shed its nominal secrecy.\n\nEven before Trianon, Hungary had begun to plan its secret air force and lay the administrative groundwork. In the 1920s, however, the victorious powers' Aviation Supervisory Committee quashed every effort to circumvent disarmament. In 1932, a plan for a future air force of forty-eight squadrons was approved. In March 1935, the Director of the Aviation Office, who was \"de facto\" commander of the secret air force, urged \"set[ting] the goal that we become a serious opponent towards at least one of the surrounding Little Entente states.\" By 1 October 1937, the secret air force reached a strength of 192 planes.\n\nAlthough, as expected, Hungary was not prepared for war by 1 October, on 6 October all air force units (except for two short-range reconnaissance squadrons) were ordered to ready for deployment, but none were ready on time. In the end, the air force was not needed, as the Italo-German mediated First Vienna Award solved Hungary's revisionist claims on Czechoslovakia without war. There was conflict within the government over command of the air force until, on 1 January 1939, it finally came in from the cold and proclaimed a separate branch of the armed forces. It received its baptism of fire in the brief war with Slovakia from 23 March until 4 April.\n\n"}
{"id": "31141819", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31141819", "title": "Burmese constitutional referendum, 1973", "text": "Burmese constitutional referendum, 1973\n\nA constitutional referendum was held in Burma on 15 December 1973. The new constitution was approved by 94.5% of voters, with voter turnout reported to be 95.5%.\n"}
{"id": "31626836", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31626836", "title": "California Law Revision Commission", "text": "California Law Revision Commission\n\nThe California Law Revision Commission (CLRC) is an independent California state agency responsible for recommending reforms of state law.\n\nThe CLRC makes recommendations to the California State Legislature to correct defects in California statutory law and to bring that law into harmony with modern conditions. The CLRC may only study matters that have been expressly authorized by legislative resolution or statute.\n\nSome of the CLRC's studies are purely technical. For example, in 2006 the CLRC was directed to recodify the Penal Code provisions relating to deadly weapons, to make them easier to use and understand without making any change in the outcomes under those laws. Other CLRC studies involve significant legal and policy issues. For example, in 2013 the CLRC was directed to make recommendations to modernize California law on state and local government access to the customer records of communication service providers.\n\nCLRC studies vary widely in scope. Some involve the revision of a single code section, while others have created or recodified entire codes of law. For example, the CLRC drafted the California Evidence Code.\n\nSeven of the CLRC's ten members are appointed by the Governor for four year terms, with the advice and consent of the California Senate. One Member of the Senate is appointed by the Senate Committee on Rules, one Member of the Assembly is appointed by the Speaker of the Assembly, and the Legislative Counsel serves ex officio. The Commission's staff consists of its Executive Director, Chief Deputy Counsel, two staff attorneys, and two administrative support staff.\n\nThe CLRC currently maintains its main office at UC Davis School of Law and a branch office at Cubberley Community Center in Palo Alto.\n\nThe CLRC is the successor to the California Code Commission, which itself was the successor to a series of earlier \"ad hoc\" codification commissions. The Code Commission was established in 1929 and spent 24 years codifying the massive body of uncodified law that had piled up as of that year in the California Statutes.\n\nAfter the Code Commission completed the monumental task of codifying virtually all general California statutory law into the California Codes, it recommended the creation of the CLRC, as a permanent law reform body.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42731145", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42731145", "title": "Carla Cappalli", "text": "Carla Cappalli\n\nCarla Cappalli was born in San Juan, Puerto Rico. She is the daughter of the late fashion designer and artist Mili Arango and Richard Cappalli, the retired law professor and author. Cappalli was a professional model most of her life and studied acting and photography at Temple University in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania and Rome, Italy. From 1998 through 2003 she worked as Executive Director and later as Public Relations Consultant for the Humane Society of Puerto Rico. There she promoted the proper care of pets and also their adoption and spay/neutering.\n\nIn 2003 Cappalli founded and presided over the Puerto Rico branch of the Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals. With the SPCA of PR, Cappalli worked on animal cruelty cases such as the confiscation and relocation of seven polar bears being kept in inhumane conditions by a Mexican traveling circus. She has also filed a lawsuit against one of Puerto Rico’s biggest chicken factory farms, Empresas Pollos Picú. Undercover videos revealed company employees beating chickens to death with bats. In December 2005 she chained herself to a circus fence to protest the misuse of animals by Ringling Brothers Barnum and Bailey. Throughout the years Cappalli has been prominent in the media as spokesperson for animal welfare in Puerto Rico.\n\nIn October 2003 Cappalli was recognized by The Civic Club of Ladies as one of the most distinguished women in Island society. On December 2007, Cappalli was once again honored, this time by the publication \"Revista Imagen\" which named her “Lady of Image and Exemplary Life” for her philanthropic and humanitarian efforts.\nPresently, Cappalli dedicates herself to the growth of her businesses Urban Pet by Carla Cappalli. She regularly designs collections and distributes them to some of the island’s finest pet shops. A percentage of the sales of Urban Pet is donated to help animal welfare in Puerto Rico.\n\nAs part of her efforts to promote animal welfare education in Puerto Rico, Cappalli has written and published a bi-lingual coloring book entitled “The Golden Rules for Helping Animals.” The book will be donated to public schools throughout Puerto Rico.\n\n1993-1996- Cappalli began her lifelong commitment to animals. Caring for a colony of feral cats, Cappalli and a friend began implementing the first TNR program in Puerto Rico, even standing up against the Government, which threatened to remove the cats (which had already been neutered.) Although some cats had to be euthanized, because of illness, slowly Cappalli and her friend began relocating cats, until there were none left in the original site. In 1993 Cappalli became a vegetarian.\n\n1994-1996- Cappalli began volunteering at the San Juan Municipal shelter by photographing dogs and cats. On behalf of the shelter, she started the first free weekly column on adopting animals in Puerto Rico in a major local newspaper, El Nuevo Día, resulting in the doubling of pet adoptions at the shelter.\n\n1997-1998- Cappalli began working as an adoption counselor for the San Juan Municipal shelter. She continued her weekly adoption column with the newspaper. Cappalli began promoting adoption and neutering campaigns in major local television and radio shows, creating animal welfare media awareness for the first time in Puerto Rico.\n\n1998-2001- Cappalli was asked to join the Humane Society of Puerto Rico (HSPR, an animal shelter) as Executive Director. At this time, the shelter was almost bankrupt and suffered from a poor public image. The Board of Directors was barely existent. Cappalli took the challenge and brought on new and influential Board Members to stabilize the shelter and cultivate public goodwill once again. The HSPR once again began offering low-cost spay neuter services and adoptions doubled.\n\nCappalli began regular adoption campaigns, promoted 'Be Kind to Animals Week', supported and promoted the HSUS First Strike Campaign, and participated in and promoted Spay Day USA in Puerto Rico. She also lobbied to increase and maintain Legislative donations to animal welfare organizations.\n\n2000- As Executive Director of the HSPR, Cappalli promoted and testified before the Puerto Rico Senate on a bill to increase Puerto Rico’s animal cruelty fine from $500 to $3000. This bill became Law No.304-2000.\n\n2001- As a result of Cappalli leading and staging various protests against visiting circuses with animals, the Natural Resources and Environmental Quality Commission of the House of Representatives began an extensive investigation into the alleged mistreatment/cruelty of animals in circuses. Cappalli attended numerous high-profile public hearings and testified before the Commission on behalf of the HSPR.\n\n2001- Cappalli receives recognition from the American Veterinarian Medical Association for her work on improving the humane treatment of animals in Puerto Rico.\n\n2001-2003- Cappalli served as President for the Puerto Rico Federation for the Protection of Animals (FEPA). As President, Cappalli spoke out publicly against cockfighting. In the year 2001, Cappalli purposed amendments to Puerto Rico’s cockfighting law and in 2002 testified before the first Puerto Rico Legislative public hearings on this issue.\n\n2002- While President of FEPA, Cappalli testified before the Puerto Rico Legislative public hearings in favor of the repeal of our anti-pit-bull law and for the establishment of Dangerous Dog Law in its place.\n\nCappalli also pushed for and attended the first police raid on a pet shop raid in Puerto Rico. The raid results in the confiscation of numerous sick animals. Further investigations lead to the closure of several pet shops operating without the necessary permits.\n\n2001-2006- Cappalli was named Public Relations Consultant to the HSPR. She wrote numerous pet columns in major and minor local newspapers. In addition, she held her own pet segment on a major television network show, Univision’s morning show, Tu Mañana. She later joined Telemundo’s show Día a Día. Cappalli produced and placed numerous free ad campaigns in major and minor local newspapers. She also produced three public service announcements featuring local celebrities that were placed on major Puerto Rico television networks.\n\n2001- 2003- As Executive Director of the HSPR and later as the President of FEPA, Cappalli began an 18-month-long battle alongside a US Animal Rights organization against the Mexican Circus Hermanos Suarez. The Circus arrived in Puerto Rico with seven polar bears. The Federation took undercover footage and was able to expose the inhumane conditions in which the polar bears were kept. After a yearlong court case, the circus was acquitted. Fortunately, with the help of Federal Agents from the US Fish and Wildlife Agency, the seven polar bears were confiscated and relocated to different zoos in the U.S.\n\n2002-2007- For six years, Cappalli produced and hosted her own animal rights radio show named Contact Animal.\n\n2003-2007- Cappalli founded and presided over the Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals in Puerto Rico (SPCA-PR).\n\n2003- Cappalli is recognized by the Women’s Civic Society as one of Puerto Rico’s Distinguished Ladies for her efforts on behalf of animals.\n\n2003- The SPCA-PR took undercover footage of Puerto Rico’s largest chicken supplier company named Pollos Picú beating and killing with pipes and bats over 70,000 chickens, because they had over-grown their size and the company was not able to process them. Later the company was letting chickens die of hunger. Cappalli filed two different lawsuits against the company. Both lawsuits were lost, but eventually the company went bankrupt.\n\n2003- Cappalli and the SPCA-PR joined forces with the Puerto Rico Ornithology Society to write a press release and stage the first manifestation against bird hunting.\n\n2003- Cappalli was certified in Puerto Rico by United Animal Nation’s Emergency Animal Rescue Service for the rescue and care of animals during disasters.\n\n2003- Cappalli and the SPCA-PR teamed up with Purina and Univision to recognize a child during Be Kind to Animals Week.\n\n2003- Cappalli joined the Doris Day Animal Foundation as Latin Outreach Spokesperson for Spay Day USA, translating all material into Spanish and attending all National media interviews.\n\n2004- Cappalli worked together with the ASPCA to bring to Puerto Rico Special Agent Mark MacDonald who delivered to the Puerto Rico Police Department a conference about the importance of attending animal cruelty cases.\n\n2005- Cappalli and the SPCA-PR joined forces with PETA in staging the most successful animal protest in Puerto Rico against the Ringling Brothers Circus. Cappalli made front-page headline news both locally and internationally.\n\n2007- Cappalli launched an anti-animal cruelty campaign on behalf of the SPCA of PR in all major and minor newspapers in Puerto Rico.\n\n2007- Cappalli is recognized by major local magazine Imagen for her humanitarian and philanthropic efforts on behalf of animals in Puerto Rico\n\n2005-2008- Cappalli opened her own business, the first all exclusive cat boarding facility in Puerto Rico, the 'Miao Miao Hotel'.\n\n2008–Present- Cappalli launched her own dog clothing line named Urban Pet by Carla Cappalli, now known as UP Collection. Cappalli asked her distributor to grant a percentage of sales for donations to help animal groups in Puerto Rico. Also, on her label she included instructions so no dog would be obligated to wear clothing, if uncomfortable and stressed. Cappalli makes sure clothing is lightweight and does not affect any of the dog’s senses.\n\n2008- Cappalli writes a bi-lingual coloring book for children promoting proper care and kindness to animals. The book title is the Golden Rules for Helping Animals.\n\n2009- Cappalli’s bi-lingual coloring book The Golden Rules for Helping Animals is endorsed by the Department of Education of Puerto Rico and together they launch a humane education campaign publishing 30,000 coloring books and distributing these to the first and second graders in all the public schools on the island.\n\n2009- Once again, Cappalli stages a large protest against the Ringling Brothers Circus. The protest brings together many different local animal groups and receives much media attention. Following this, no other circus with animals has visited Puerto Rico. There is no legislation yet which prohibits it.\n\n2009-2010- Cappalli joins lawsuit as a local resident against BioCulture Laboratories. The company intended to open a monkey breeding facility in the Municipality of Guayama, Puerto Rico. Cappalli staged and led various protests and eventually the lawsuit was won.\n\n2011-2012- Cappalli joins Earth Island Institute and Ric O’Barry in preventing the construction of a Dolphinarium in Puerto Rico proposed by former Mayor of San Juan, Jorge Santini. Cappalli staged and led a protest. She helped present a screening of the Award-winning documentary The Cove, and served as a guide for O’Barry during the media tour, which she arranged for him. The Dolphinarium was not constructed.\n\n2012-2014- Throughout these last years, Cappalli has continued working with different local animal groups helping them to produce, promote and carry out events, as well as making donations from the proceeds of sales from her dog clothing line UP Collection. Cappalli has also kept up her humane education efforts visiting different schools offering book readings featuring her bi-lingual coloring book, The Golden Rules for Helping Animals. Cappalli has been active in the local media, offering interviews on different animal welfare issues occurring on the island.\n\n"}
{"id": "16951486", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16951486", "title": "Clean growth", "text": "Clean growth\n\nClean growth is a way to achieve economic growth, using clean technology, and allowing sustainable development.\n\nThe aim is to rise standard of living with a reduced environmental impact.\n\nScientists and politicians use this terminology. For example, Nicolas Sarkozy said : \n\nOur first goal is to find the way to achieve \"clean\" growth and I want to defend this idea here today. We haven't got to choose between saving the planet and growth. We need to have growth and save the planet. So we need a growth that consumes less energy and fewer raw materials. A new economy must be invented.\n"}
{"id": "43812352", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43812352", "title": "Clearlite Holdings Ltd v Auckland City Corp", "text": "Clearlite Holdings Ltd v Auckland City Corp\n\nClearlite Holdings Ltd v Auckland City Corp [1976] 2 NZLR 729 is a cited case in New Zealand regarding land based nuisance claims in tort.\n\nAuckland City arranged for their contractor to drive a tunnel under Clearlites factory in order to install a drainage pipe.\n\nFor reasons not stated, the tunnel caused the concrete floor to crack due to the soil subsiding 2 inches, which cost Clearlite $19,873.91 to fix.\n\nAfter the council refused to reimburse them for the cost to fix their floor, Clearlite sued both Auckland City and the contractor for negligence as well as in nuisance.\n\nThe court ruled that as the collapse was not the fault of the council or their contactor, the negligence claim must fail. However, the nuisance claim was successful as for nuisance cases, negligence is not required to be proved, merely foreseeability, and damages of $19,873.91 were awarded to Clearlite.\n"}
{"id": "3833026", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3833026", "title": "Committee of adjustment", "text": "Committee of adjustment\n\nA Committee of Adjustment, similar to a Zoning Board of Adjustment, is a quasi-judicial body in each Ontario municipality that adjudicates matters related to minor variances to Zoning by-laws and consents to severances of land.\n"}
{"id": "43436066", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43436066", "title": "Convention on the Limitation Period in the International Sale of Goods", "text": "Convention on the Limitation Period in the International Sale of Goods\n\nThe Convention on the Limitation Period in the International Sale of Goods (the \"Limitation Convention\") is a uniform law treaty prepared by the United Nations Commission on International Trade Law (UNCITRAL). It deals with the prescription of actions relating to contracts for the international sale of goods due to the passage of time.\n\nThe Limitation Convention was originally prepared as a chapter of a broader treaty on contracts for international sale of goods. Adopted in 1974, it was amended in 1980 to be fully aligned, especially with respect to scope of application, to the United Nations Convention on Contracts for the International Sale of Goods (CISG), adopted in the same year.\n\nAs of February 2016, the following states have ratified, acceded to, succeeded to, or participate under the Limitation Convention: \nThe Limitation Convention has been signed, but not yet ratified, acceded to, succeeded to, or participated under, by Brazil, Bulgaria, Costa Rica, Mongolia, Nicaragua, and the Russian Federation.\n\nWhat follows is a very summary description of the content of the Limitation Convention, provided for preliminary information only. Readers are encouraged to refer to the explanatory note to that convention prepared by the UNCITRAL secretariat for further introductory information on the Limitation Convention.\nIn its original unamended version, the Limitation Convention applies when both parties have their place of business in contracting States (Article 3(1)). In the amended version, the Limitation Convention applies also when rules of private international law make the law of a Contracting State applicable to the contract of sale (Article 3(1)(b)). Hence, the Limitation Convention, as amended, applies in the same case as the CISG. It should be noted that the reference is to the rules of private international law applicable to the contract itself, and not to limitation matters.\nLikewise, other matters relating to scope of application of the Convention, especially in its amended form, are treated similarly as in the CISG. However, article 5 of the Limitation Convention contains an additional list of excluded matters that is not present in the CISG.\nThe limitation period is four years, starting from the date when the claim accrues (Articles 8 and 9). The limitation period stops to run when judicial or arbitral proceedings are commenced (Articles 13 and 14).\n\nIf the debtor recognizes in writing its debt before the end of the limitation period, a new limitation period runs (Article 20). The limitation period is also extended in case of force majeure (Article 21). In any case, the limitation period expires in ten years from the date on which it commenced (Article 23).\n\nThe effect of the expiration of the limitation period is that no related claim may be recognized or enforced; however, that claim may be used as a counter-claim to set off, under certain conditions (Article 25).\n\nThe expiration of the limitation period may be taken into account only if invoked by the parties to the proceedings (Article 24); however, a State may lodge a reservation to Article 24 and therefore allow for the judge to declare the expiration of the limitation period ex officio (Article 36).\n\nThe Limitation Convention has often been considered as a lesser, and less lucky sister of the CISG. However, it is applied regularly in certain regions of the world, especially Eastern Europe. The Case Law on UNCITRAL Texts database has an increasing collection of decisions relating to the Limitation Convention.\nWhile the USA has been a party to the Limitation Convention for more than two decades, only one recent judicial precedent deals with the Convention. This is unusual given that, for instance, the Limitation Convention applies to all contracts for sale of goods concluded between parties with place of business in the USA and in Mexico, unless opted out of, and may indicate limited awareness of its existence.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23215119", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23215119", "title": "Convention on the Participation of Foreigners in Public Life at Local Level", "text": "Convention on the Participation of Foreigners in Public Life at Local Level\n\nThe Convention on the Participation of Foreigners in Public Life at Local Level is a treaty of the Council of Europe, adopted in 1992. It grants foreigners the right to vote in local elections, provided that they fulfil the same legal requirements as apply to citizens and have been lawful and habitual residents in the State concerned for the five years preceding the elections. The convention came into force in 1997, after the fourth ratification. As of July 2015, the Convention has been ratified by nine member states. Four states have signed the convention, but not ratified it.\n\n"}
{"id": "4565320", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4565320", "title": "Coutume", "text": "Coutume\n\nCoutumes were the customary laws of France.\n\nDeveloped under feudalism during the Middle Ages and in the early modern period, the coutumes were the laws asserted and enforced by the French kings and their vassals, especially in the lands of the Île-de-France, to the exclusion of Roman law. The area where the French customary law \"(droit coutumier)\" was in force was known as the \"pays de coutume\". In the south of France (\"pays de droit écrit\") Roman law remained paramount. The line separating the two areas was generally the river Loire, from Geneva to the mouth of the Charente. \n\nA number of regional coutumes were compiled in the 13th and 14th centuries. The Coutumes de Beauvaisis, compiled by Phillipe de Remy, had a long-lasting influence on French law. There were about 60 such regional coutumes. There were also more than 300 \"coutumes locales\" in specific towns and villages. Voltaire said that in France a traveler changed laws as often as he changed horses.\n\nHowever, by the 16th century the Coutumes of Paris (first published in 1510) had been adopted in all areas except Normandy, Burgundy and Brittany. Further development of customary law had been halted by the late 16th century.\n\nWhen the Napoleonic code entered into force in 1804 all the coutumes were abolished.\n\nIn 1664, under the royal act creating the French East India Company, the Custom of Paris became the only law of the land in New France. In 1866 the Civil Code of Lower Canada was adopted in Lower Canada. The majority of the Code's rules borrowed heavily from the Custom of Paris.\n\n"}
{"id": "51063098", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51063098", "title": "De Excommunicato Deliberando", "text": "De Excommunicato Deliberando\n\nA de excommunicato deliberando is a writ which issued out of chancery to release a prisoner from the county jail after the bishop had certified the prisoner's reconciliation with the Church, following his arrest and imprisonment under a writ de excommunicato capiendo.\n\n"}
{"id": "32603922", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32603922", "title": "Employee Involvement Directive 2001", "text": "Employee Involvement Directive 2001\n\nThe Employee Involvement Directive 2001/86/EC is an EU Directive concerning the right of workers to elect members of the board of directors in a European Company. It is a supplement to the European Company Regulation.\n\nEU member states differ in the degree of worker involvement in corporate management. In Germany, most large corporations are required to allow employees to elect a certain percentage of seats on the supervisory board. Other member states, such as the UK, have no such requirement, and furthermore in these states such practices are largely unknown and considered a threat to the rights of management.\n\nThese differing traditions of worker involvement have held back the adoption of the Statute for over a decade. States without worker involvement provisions were afraid that the SE might lead to having such provisions being imposed on their companies; and states with those provisions were afraid they might lead to those provisions being circumvented.\n\nA compromise, contained in the Directive, was worked out as follows: worker involvement provisions in the SE will be decided upon by negotiations between employees and management before the creation of the SE. If agreement cannot be reached, provisions contained in the Directive will apply. The Directive provides for worker involvement in the SE if a minimum percentage of employees from the entities coming together to form the SE enjoyed worker involvement provisions. The Directive permits Member States to not implement these default worker involvement provisions in their national law, but then an SE cannot be created in that member state if the provisions in the Directive would apply and negotiations between workers and management are unsuccessful.\n\nDefinition of employee participation: it does not mean participation in day-to-day decisions, which are a matter for the management, but participation in the supervision and strategic development of the company.\n\n\nEmployment contracts and pensions are not covered by the Directive. With regard to occupational pension schemes, the SE is covered by the provisions laid down in the proposal for a directive on institutions for occupational schemes, presented by the Commission in October 2000, in particular in connection with the possibility of introducing a single pension scheme for all their employees in the European Union.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1706672", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1706672", "title": "Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission", "text": "Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission\n\nThe Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission is an independent adjudicative agency of the United States government that provides administrative trial and appellate review of legal disputes arising under the Federal Mine Safety and Health Amendments Act, or Mine Act, of 1977. \n\nUnder the Mine Act, the U.S. Department of Labor issues regulations covering health and safety in the nation's mines. Federal mine inspectors employed by the Department's Mine Safety and Health Administration (MSHA) enforce these regulations by issuing citations and orders to mine operators. The Commission is concerned solely with the adjudication of disputes under the Mine Act, including the determination of appropriate penalties. It does not regulate mining or enforce the Mine Act. The Commission was established as an independent agency to ensure its impartiality.\n\nMost cases deal with civil penalties assessed against mine operators and address whether the alleged safety and health violations occurred as well as the appropriateness of proposed penalties. Other types of cases include orders to close a mine, miners' charges of safety related discrimination and miners’ requests for compensation after the mine is idled by a closure order.\n\nThe Commission’s administrative law judges (ALJs) decide cases at the trial level. The five-member Commission provides appellate review. Commissioners are appointed by the President and confirmed by the Senate. Review of an ALJ decision by the Commission is not guaranteed but requires the affirmative vote of two Commissioners. Most of the cases accepted for review are generated from petitions filed by parties adversely affected by an ALJ decision. However, cases can also be accepted based on the Commission's own direction for review. An ALJ decision that is not accepted for review becomes a final, non-precedential order of the Commission. Appeals from the Commission's decisions are to the U.S. courts of appeals.\n\nProcedures for appealing cases to the Commission are contained in its Rules of Procedure published in 29 CFR Part 2700. The Commission also publishes these rules in a separate pamphlet. A brochure, entitled \"How a Case Proceeds Before the Commission\" is also available. The Commission's headquarters and Office of Administrative Law Judges are co-located in Washington, D.C., with an additional OALJ's offices in Denver, Colorado and Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. Currently, the Commission has a budget of more than US$7 million and a staff of 50 employees.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31100336", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31100336", "title": "Hague Marriage Convention", "text": "Hague Marriage Convention\n\nThe Hague Convention on Celebration and Recognition of the Validity of Marriages or Hague Marriage Convention is a multilateral treaty developed by the Hague Conference on Private International Law that provides the recognition of marriages. The convention was signed in 1978 by Portugal, Luxembourg and Egypt, and later by Australia, Finland and the Netherlands. It entered into force more than 10 years after opening for signature after ratification by Australia, the Netherlands (for its European territory only) and Luxembourg, and no countries have acceded to the convention since.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19468532", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19468532", "title": "House of Representatives", "text": "House of Representatives\n\nHouse of Representatives is the name of legislative bodies in many countries and sub-national entitles. In many countries, the House of Representatives is the lower house of a bicameral legislature, with the corresponding upper house often called a \"Senate\". In some countries, the House of Representatives is the sole chamber of a unicameral legislature. \n\nThe functioning of a house of representatives can vary greatly from country to country, and depends on whether a country has a parliamentary or a presidential system. Members of a House of Representatives are typically apportioned according to population rather than geography.\n\nThe Indonesian People's Representative Council (\"Dewan Perwakilan Rakyat\", DPR) is generally known in English as the \"House of Representatives\", as is the \"Dewan Rakyat\" of the Parliament of Malaysia and the Dáil Éireann of the Irish Oireachtas parliament. In the 2012 draft for a new Constitution of Egypt, the People's Assembly is called \"House of Representatives\".\n\n\"The House of Representatives\" currently is the name of a house of the legislature in the following countries:\n\nIn the following countries it is the sole chamber in a unicameral system:\n\"House of Representatives\" is the title of most, but not all, of the lower houses of U.S. state legislatures, with the exceptions usually called \"State Assembly\", \"General Assembly\", or more rarely, \"House of Delegates\".\n\nIn Germany, the \"Landtag\" parliament of the city and state of Berlin (previously of West Berlin), the \"Abgeordnetenhaus\" is known in English as the House of Representatives.\n\nIn Tanzania, the semi-autonomous islands of Zanzibar has its own legislative body, the Zanzibar House of Representatives.\n\nFrom 1867 until 1918, in Cisleithania, the Austrian part of the Austro-Hungarian monarchy, the lower house of the Imperial Council (\"Reichsrat\") parliament, the \"Abgeordnetenhaus\" was generally known in English as \"House of Representatives\". Since 1855 the lower house in the \"Landtag\" assembly of Prussia was called \"Abgeordnetenhaus\", as distinct from the upper House of Lords.\n\nIn 1934, the Nebraska voters approved a unicameral legislature dissolving the House of Representatives and granting its powers to the Senate.\n\nThe Kenyan House of Representatives was combined with the Senate in 1966, to form an enlarged single chamber parliament, known as the National Assembly. The Senate was re-established as an upper house following the 2010 Kenyan constitutional referendum.\n\nThe House of Representatives of Ceylon (now Sri Lanka) was the lower chamber of the parliament established in 1947 according to the Soulbury Constitution. The 1972 First Republican Constitution of Sri Lanka replaced it with the unicameral National State Assembly.\n\nFollowing the surrender of South Vietnam to North Vietnamese and Viet Cong forces in 1975, a Provisional Revolutionary Government established itself in Saigon and disbanded the bicameral National Assembly consisting of the Senate and the House of Representatives. \n\nUnder apartheid, the House of Representatives was the house for South Africa's mixed race 'Coloured' community, in the Tricameral Parliament of 1984 to 1994.\n\nIn 1994 the House of Representatives legislature of The Gambia was dissolved in a coup d'état led by Yahya Jammeh. It was replaced by the National Assembly according to the 1997 Constitution of The Gambia.\n\n"}
{"id": "9734392", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9734392", "title": "Humphrey's Executor v. United States", "text": "Humphrey's Executor v. United States\n\nHumphrey's Executor v. United States, 295 U.S. 602 (1935), was a United States Supreme Court case decided during the Franklin Delano Roosevelt presidency, regarding the powers that a President of the United States has to remove certain executive officials of a \"quasi-legislative,\" \"quasi-judicial\" administrative body created by Congress, for purely political reasons and without the consent of Congress.\n\nRoosevelt was dissatisfied with William Humphrey, a member of the Federal Trade Commission, as Humphrey did not, in Roosevelt's view, support his New Deal policies vigorously enough.\n\nTwice, Roosevelt requested Humphrey to resign from the FTC, requests to which Humphrey did not yield. The third time, Roosevelt fired Humphrey: \"Effective as of this date you are hereby removed from the office of Commissioner of the Federal Trade Commission.\" Nevertheless, Humphrey continued to come to work at the FTC even after he was formally fired. However, the Federal Trade Commission Act permitted the President to dismiss an FTC member only for \"inefficiency, neglect of duty, or malfeasance in office.\" Roosevelt's decision to dismiss Humphrey was based solely on political differences rather than job performance or alleged acts of malfeasance.\n\nThe case went to the Supreme Court, but Humphrey died before the case could be decided. The case was then pursued by the executors of his estate; thus, the case obtained the title \"Humphrey's Executor\".\n\nThe Court distinguished between executive officers and quasi-legislative or quasi-judicial officers. The latter may be removed only with procedures consistent with statutory conditions enacted by Congress; the former serve at the pleasure of the President and may be removed at his discretion. The Court ruled that the Federal Trade Commission was a quasi-legislative body because of other powers it had and so the President could not fire an FTC member solely for political reasons; thus, Humphrey's firing was improper.\n\nU.S. Attorney General Robert H. Jackson, later to join the Supreme Court himself, said in his memoirs that Roosevelt was particularly annoyed by the Court's decision, as the President felt that it had been rendered in spite.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "858391", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=858391", "title": "Jobsworth", "text": "Jobsworth\n\nA jobsworth is a person who uses their job description in a deliberately uncooperative way, or who seemingly delights in acting in an obstructive or unhelpful manner. The term can also be applied to those who uphold petty rules even at the expense of humanity or common sense. \n\n\"Jobsworth\" is a British colloquial word derived from the phrase \"I can't do that, it's more than my job's worth\", meaning taking the initiative and performing an action that is beyond what the person feels is in their job description. The \"Oxford English Dictionary\" defines it as \"A person in authority (esp. a minor official) who insists on adhering to rules and regulations or bureaucratic procedures even at the expense of common sense.\" Jonathon Green similarly defines \"jobsworth\" as \"a minor factotum whose only status comes from enforcing otherwise petty regulations\".\n\nAn example of the phrase which gave rise to the term occurs in the 1965 Beatles movie \"Help!\", when Roy Kinnear's character, the assistant scientist Algernon, exclaims \"Well it's more than my job's worth to stop him when he's like this, he's out to rule the world...if he can get a government grant.\"\n\nAnother early use was by UK folk-singer Jeremy Taylor, in a song he wrote in the late 1960s:\nThe term became widespread in vernacular English through its use in the popular 1970s BBC television programme \"That's Life!\" which featured Esther Rantzen covering various human interest and consumer topics. A \"Jobsworth of the Week\" commissionaire's hat was awarded each week to \"a startling tale of going by the book\".\n\nThe term remains in use, particularly in the UK, to characterise inflexible employees, petty rule-following and excessive administration.\n\nThe slang expression \"Little Hitler\" is also used in Britain with a similar meaning.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30242215", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30242215", "title": "Law Against Racism 2010", "text": "Law Against Racism 2010\n\nThe Law Against Racism and All Forms of Discrimination (; often called the Law Against Racism) is a statute passed by the Plurinational Legislative Assembly of Bolivia as Law 045 and promulgated by President Evo Morales into law as Law 737/2010 on 10 October 2010. The law prohibits discrimination and discriminatory aggression by public and private institutions and individuals, creates a governmental Committee Against Racism and All Forms of Discrimination, and bars the dissemination of racist and discriminatory ideas through the mass media. The provisions of the law applying to the media caused extensive controversy and were opposed by mainstream publications and media worker associations.\n\nThe first draft of the law was proposed by the Human Rights Committee of the Bolivian Chamber of Deputies on 24 May 2010, the anniversary of an incident of racist violence in Sucre in 2008.\n\nFollowing approval by the Chamber of Deputies, the Senate took up consideration of the Law in October. The law was considered first by the Constitution Committee, whose chair, Senator Eduardo Maldonado (MAS-IPSP, Potosí) declared he was open to revisions in the law. On 4 October, a plenary session of the Senate replaced Maldonado with Eugenio Rojas (MAS-IPSP) as chair of the committee, assuring no changes would be made in committee. The law, unchanged from the version approved by the Deputies, was considered in plenary from 16:45 on 7 October to 05:15 on 8 October. The session was tumultuous and included frequent interruptions by opponents of the bill. Opposition lawmakers unsuccessfully proposed a revocation referendum on Articles 16 and 23. The bill was passed by the Senate by a greater than two-thirds majority.\n\nPresident Evo Morales promulgated the measure into law on 8 October 2010.\n\nArticle 13 penalizes the following acts by public servants:\nThe internal regulations of public agencies must prohibit such acts, accept complaints about them, and must turn over criminally culpable employees for prosecution.\n\nArticle 14 penalizes the following acts in private institutions:\nPrivate institutions must revise their internal regulations so that any of these acts by employees are considered internal faults, must share denunciations made against their employees with the Committee against Racism, and must inform prosecutors of criminal acts.\n\nArticle 15 prohibits discrimination in the right to enter establishments serving the public, including the hanging of signs advertising such discrimination. Municipalities have the responsibility to enforce this norm by three days of closure at the first offense, thirty days on the second, and definitive closure on the third.\n\nArticle 21 of the law makes racist or discriminatory motives an aggravating factor for all crimes, many subject to a one-third increase in minimum sentence and one-half increase in maximum sentence, not exceeding the overall maximum set by the Bolivian constitution.\n\nArticles 22 and 23 create a series of \"crimes against human dignity,\" as Chapter V of Title VIII of the Bolivian Penal Code. These are:\nArticle 24 also considers a variety of instances of discriminatory actions which may be considered through private, civil actions between the parties involved.\n\nThe law's Article 16, concerning the mass media, and part of Article 23, which states that no one is exempt from the law, were sharply opposed by Bolivian and some international media associations.\n\nArticle 16. (\"Mass Media\"). A medium which authorizes and publishes racist and discriminatory ideas will be subject to economic sanctions and to suspension of its license to function, subject to regulation.\n<br>\nArticle 23 (\"Adding to the penal code\") […] Article 281 fourth sub-part (Diffusion and Incitement to Racism or Discrimination). […] II. When the act is committed by a worker in the media, or the proprietor of one, he or she will not be able to allege immunity or fuero of any kind.\n\nAccording to La Razón, the final version of the law softens penalties for broadcasting racist ideas and requires media outlets to allocate spaces or scheduling time to anti-racism educational content.<ref name=\"Maira Magro/JV\">Bolivian press says final anti-racism law softens penalties for media Knight Center for Journalism in the Americas, University of Texas at Austin, December 2010</ref>\n\n"}
{"id": "43830010", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43830010", "title": "Law on the languages of the peoples of the Republic of Bashkortostan", "text": "Law on the languages of the peoples of the Republic of Bashkortostan\n\nThe Law on the languages of the peoples of the Republic of Bashkortostan is a law aimed at protecting and preserving the languages of the peoples of Bashkortostan.\n\nAccording to the law, all the signs and indicators should be in Bashkir and Russian.\n\nSubstantive provisions of the law include the following sections.\n\nIn the Republic of Bashkortostan recognized equality of languages. Equality of languages - the totality of the rights of peoples and the person on the conservation and comprehensive development of the native language, freedom of choice and use the language of communication.\n\nWriting the names of geographical objects and drawing inscriptions, road and other signs along with the state language of the Republic of Bashkortostan can be done in the languages of the Bashkortostan in the territories where they are concentrated.\n\nViolation of the regulations of the Bashkortostan on the use of languages of the Bashkortostan when placing road signs, names (names) of settlements, streets - shall entail the imposition of an administrative fine on officials in the amount of three thousand to five thousand rubles; for legal entities - from eight thousand to ten thousand (Article 2.3 of the Code of the Bashkortostan on administrative offenses).\n\nViolation of the regulations of the Bashkortostan on the use of the languages of the Bashkortostan, signage at registration organizations in the Republic of Bashkortostan - shall entail the imposition of an administrative fine on officials in the amount of four thousand to five thousand rubles; for legal entities - from ten thousand to fifteen thousand rubles.\n\n"}
{"id": "25588734", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25588734", "title": "Lawsuits involving Dell Inc.", "text": "Lawsuits involving Dell Inc.\n\nThis article delineates lawsuits involving Dell Inc..\n"}
{"id": "53657955", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53657955", "title": "Legal Studies (law journal)", "text": "Legal Studies (law journal)\n\nLegal Studies () is published for The Society of Legal Scholars (SLS) by John Wiley & Sons. It was first published in 1981 and is now recognised as \"one of the leading generalist journals in the UK\" Legal Studies publishes peer-reviewed scholarly articles, notes, reports, and book reviews. It has been edited by a board located in University of Manchester’s School of Law since 2016. A ranking of UK law journals based on statistical data from the 2001 Research Assessment Exercise uses Legal Studies as the 'benchmark'.\n"}
{"id": "11927826", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11927826", "title": "Legal disputes over the Harry Potter series", "text": "Legal disputes over the Harry Potter series\n\nSince first coming to wide notice in the late 1990s, the \"Harry Potter\" book series by J. K. Rowling has engendered a number of legal disputes. Rowling, her various publishers and Time Warner, the owner of the rights to the \"Harry Potter\" films, have taken numerous legal actions to protect their copyrights, and also have fielded accusations of copyright theft themselves. The worldwide popularity of the \"Harry Potter\" series has led to the appearance of a number of locally produced, unauthorised sequels and other derivative works, sparking efforts to ban or contain them. While these legal proceedings have countered a number of cases of outright piracy, other attempts have targeted not-for-profit endeavours and have been criticised.\n\nAnother area of legal dispute involves a series of injunctions obtained by Rowling and her publishers to prohibit anyone from distributing or reading her books before their official release dates. The sweeping powers of these injunctions have occasionally drawn fire from civil liberties and free speech campaigners and sparked debates over the \"right to read\". One of these injunctions was used in an unrelated trespassing case as precedent supporting the issuance of an injunction against a John Doe.\n\nOutside these controversies, a number of particular incidents related to \"Harry Potter\" have also led, or almost led, to legal action. In 2005, a man was sentenced to four years in prison after firing a replica gun at a journalist during a staged deal for stolen copies of an unreleased \"Harry Potter\" novel, and attempting to blackmail the publisher with threats of releasing secrets from the book. Then in 2007 Bloomsbury Publishing contemplated legal action against the supermarket chain Asda for libel after the company accused them of overpricing the final \"Harry Potter\" novel, \"Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows\". A comprehensive list of intellectual property and speech lawsuits involving \"Harry Potter\", Harry Potter Lawsuits and Where to Find Them, was compiled by attorney David Kluft in 2015 for the Trademark and Copyright Law Blog.\n\nIn 1999, American author Nancy Kathleen Stouffer alleged copyright and trademark infringement by Rowling of her 1984 works \"The Legend of Rah and the Muggles\" () and \"Larry Potter and His Best Friend Lilly\". The primary basis for Stouffer's case rested in her own purported invention of the word \"Muggles\", the name of a race of mutant humanoids in \"The Legend of Rah and the Muggles\", and Larry Potter, the title character of a series of activity booklets for children. Larry Potter, like Harry Potter, is a bespectacled boy with dark hair, though he is not a character in \"The Legend of Rah and the Muggles\". Stouffer also drew a number of other comparisons, such as a castle on a lake, a receiving room and wooden doors. Portions of \"Rah\" were originally published in booklet form in 1986 by Ande Publishing Company, a company founded by Stouffer together with a group of friends and family. Ande Publishing filed for bankruptcy in September 1987 without selling any of its booklets in the United States or elsewhere. Rowling has stated that she first visited the United States in 1998.\n\nRowling, along with Scholastic Press (her American publisher) and Warner Bros. (holders of the series' film rights), pre-empted Stouffer in 2002 with a suit of their own seeking a declaratory judgment that they had not infringed on any of Stouffer's works. The court found in Rowling's favour, granting summary judgment and holding that \"no reasonable juror could find a likelihood of confusion as to the source of the two parties' works\". During the course of the trial, it was held that Rowling proved \"by clear and convincing evidence, that Stouffer has perpetrated a fraud on the Court through her submission of fraudulent documents as well as through her untruthful testimony\", including changing pages years after the fact to retroactively insert the word \"muggle\". Her case was dismissed with prejudice and she was fined $50,000 for her \"pattern of intentional bad faith conduct\" in relation to her employment of fraudulent submissions, along with being ordered to pay a portion of the plaintiffs' legal fees. Stouffer appealed the decision in 2004, but in 2005 the Second Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed the ruling. In 2006 she stated on her website that she was planning to republish her books and was entertaining the possibility of another lawsuit against Warner Bros., J. K. Rowling and Scholastic Press.\n\n\"The Legend of Rah and the Muggles\" is currently out of print. In early 2001, it was published by Thurman House, LLC, a Maryland publishing company. Thurman House, formed by Ottenheimer Publishers to republish the works of Nancy Stouffer, was closed when Ottenheimer ceased operations in 2002 after filing for bankruptcy. Stouffer later asserted that any copies of the book published by Thurman House are unauthorized because the publisher failed to honour its contractual obligations to her.\n\nIn 2005, Warner Bros. offered CAD$5,000 (later CAD$50,000) to the Canadian folk band the Wyrd Sisters for the rights to use their name in the film version of \"Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire\". Rowling had written a scene in the novel in which a band called the Weird Sisters appeared at a school dance, and the group owned the rights to the name in Canada. However, the offer was declined, and instead the band undertook a legal action against Warner Bros., as well as Jarvis Cocker of Pulp and Jonny Greenwood and Phil Selway of Radiohead, who were to play the band in the film. All plans to use the name in the movie were later abandoned. Despite that decision, the Canadian band filed a CAD$40-million ($39 million) lawsuit against Warner in Ontario court. In connection with the lawsuit, the band brought an interlocutory injunction hoping to prevent the release of the film. The injunction application was dismissed. The entire suit was dismissed in November 2005. In June 2006, an Ontario judge decreed that the band pay Warner Bros. CAD$140,000 in legal costs, describing their lawsuit as \"highly intrusive\". The group claimed they planned to appeal the decision. Jarvis Cocker initially wished to release an album of \"Weird Sisters\"-themed music with collaborators including Franz Ferdinand, Jack White and Iggy Pop, but the project was dropped as a result of the lawsuit. The Wyrd Sisters reported death threats from irate \"Harry Potter\" fans. As of March 2010, the lawsuit has been settled out of court, the details sealed.\n\nIn June 2009, the estate of Adrian Jacobs, a children's author who died in 1997, sued Rowling's publishers, Bloomsbury, for £500 million, accusing her of having plagiarised \"substantial parts\" of his work in writing the novel \"Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire\". In a statement, Jacobs's family claimed that a scene in \"Goblet of Fire\" was substantially similar to Jacobs's book \"The Adventures of Willy the Wizard: Livid Land:\" \"'Both Willy and Harry are required to work out the exact nature of the main task of the contest which they both achieve in a bathroom assisted by clues from helpers, in order to discover how to rescue human hostages imprisoned by a community of half-human, half-animal fantasy creatures.\" They also launched a joint suit against Rowling and her publishers. Bloomsbury countered with a statement of its own, saying that \"This claim is without merit and will be defended vigorously,\" and that Rowling \"had never heard of Adrian Jacobs nor seen, read or heard of his book \"Willy the Wizard\" until this claim was first made in 2004, almost seven years after the publication of the first \"Harry Potter\" book.\" The Jacobs estate, driven by his son and grandson, have published a website with details and excerpts from the book, according to the \"Toronto Star\". In July 2010, the estate filed suit against Rowling's American publisher, Scholastic, demanding that the company burn all copies of \"Goblet of Fire\".\n\nOn 6 January 2011, the US lawsuit against Scholastic was dismissed. The judge in the case stated that there was not enough similarity between the two books to make a case for plagiarism. In the UK courts, on 21 March 2011, Paul Allen, a trustee of the Jacobs estate, was ordered to pay as security to the court 65% of the costs faced by Bloomsbury and Rowling, amounting to over £1.5million, to avoid the claim being struck out. It was reported in \"The Bookseller\" that Paul Allen has appealed against paying this sum. As a condition of the appeal, he paid £50,000 to the court in May 2011. The claim was formally struck out in July 2011 after the deadline for Allen's initial payment was missed.\n\nIn 2002, an unauthorised Chinese-language sequel titled \"Harry Potter and Bao Zoulong\" (Chinese: Simplified: 哈利波特与豹走龙, Traditional: 哈利波特與豹走龍, Hanyu Pinyin: \"Hālì Bōtè yǔ Bào Zǒulóng\") appeared for sale in the People's Republic of China. (In English-language media this was mistranslated as \"Harry Potter and Leopard-Walk-Up-to-Dragon\".)\nAccording to translated excerpts, the book principally consists of the text of J. R. R. Tolkien's \"The Hobbit\", but with most names changed to those of \"Harry Potter\" characters. The book was quickly recognised by media outlets as a fake. Rowling and Warner Bros. took steps to stop its distribution. Copies were briefly distributed around the world, including e-book copies traded on the Internet. In November 2002, the Bashu Publishing House, in the southwestern city of Chengdu, agreed to pay a £1,600 (US$3,400) fine and publish an apology in China's \"Legal Times\" for printing and distributing the novel. As of 2007, the identity of the anonymous \"author\" has not been discovered. The opening of \"Harry Potter and Bao Zoulong\", translated into English, was included in several news articles. As of 2007, it is estimated that there are fifteen million copies of fraudulent \"Harry Potter\" novels circulating in China. In 2007, Rowling's agents, the Christopher Little Literary Agency, began to discuss the possibility of legal proceedings concerning a fake version of \"Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows\" that appeared in China ten days before the actual book's publication.\n\nIn 2003, legal pressure from \"Harry Potter\"'s publishers led an Indian publisher to stop publication of \"Harry Potter in Calcutta\" by Uttam Ghosh; a work in which Harry meets figures from Bengali literature. The case was settled out of court.\n\nAlso in 2003, courts in the Netherlands prevented the distribution of a Dutch translation of \"Tanya Grotter and the Magical Double Bass\", the first of Dmitri Yemets' popular Russian series about a female apprentice wizard. Rowling and her publishers sued, arguing that the Grotter books violate copyright law. Yemets and his original Moscow-based publishers, Eksmo, argued that the books constitute a parody, permitted under copyright. The Dutch courts ruled that the books did not constitute parody and thus were not allowed to be sold in the Netherlands. Later that year, as the Dutch translation \"Tanja Grotter en de magische contrabas\" was still legal in Belgium, the Flemish publishers Roularta Books decided to print 1,000 copies (and no more) in order to let people decide whether it was plagiarism, hoping that under those circumstances Rowling and her publishers would not sue. Rowling did not sue, but as there was a lot of interest in the book (Dutch people could buy the book by postal order from another Flemish publisher, Boekhandel VanIn) it was soon sold out. The books continue to be published in Russia and have spawned several sequels.\n\nIn August 2008, Warner Bros. filed a lawsuit against production company Mirchi Movies due to the similarity of the title of their Bollywood film \"\" to the \"Harry Potter\" film series. Mirchi Movies CEO Munish Purii claimed there is very little similarity between Hari Puttar and any elements in the \"Harry Potter\" franchise, and explained that Hari is a popular Indian name, while \"puttar\" means \"son\" in Punjabi, although Indian versions of \"Harry Potter\" also translate Harry's name to Hari Puttar. The film was delayed until late September. Warner Bros. claimed that the title was confusing, but Mirchi Movies claimed they registered the name in 2005. On 24 September 2008, the court in Delhi rejected Warner Bros.' claim, saying that \"Harry Potter\" readers were sufficiently able to distinguish between the two works. They also accused Warner Bros. of delaying the action, since they were aware of the film as far back as 2005.\n\nIn 2000, in the lead-up to the release of the first \"Harry Potter\" film, \"Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone\"; Warner Bros., the film's distributor, sent a series of letters to owners of \"Harry Potter\" fansites, demanding that, to protect their copyright, they hand over their domain names. The action resulted in negative publicity for the company when Claire Field, the then 15-year-old webmaster of the British fansite harrypotterguide.co.uk, was reduced to tears by what were described by her father as unnecessary bully tactics. Eventually the corporation backed down in the face of media opposition and declared that, as the site was non-commercial, it did not violate the trademark.\n\nIn their May 2004 issue, the US Army publication \"The Preventive Maintenance Monthly\", which instructs soldiers on how to maintain their equipment, featured a spoof comic based on \"Harry Potter\", featuring a character named Topper who resided at Mogmarts School under Professor Rumbledore. The publication received notice from Rowling's lawyers that the comics breached copyright, though the magazine's editor, Ken Crunk, claimed that no violation had taken place, as \"[t]he drawings do not look like any of the characters from \"Harry Potter\"\". After a discussion with Rowling's representatives, the magazine agreed not to use the characters again.\n\nIn 2004, Rowling and Time Warner launched legal actions against bazee.com, now the Indian branch of the online auction site eBay. The site had hosted illegally created e-books of \"Harry Potter\", which Rowling had never agreed to be published. In 2005, Rowling warned her fans on her website that various \"signed\" \"Harry Potter\" memorabilia appearing for sale on eBay did not in fact use her signature. She urged her fans to protest eBay to prevent other children from being swindled. In 2007, Rowling launched lawsuits against a number of users of the site, obtaining a series of stay orders preventing them from selling her work. However eBay claimed that in her dealings with the media, Rowling had falsely claimed that her injunctions had been against eBay itself. In June 2007, eBay filed papers with the Delhi High Court, alleging that Rowling had caused them \"immense humiliation and harassment\". The High Court circumvented the application, claiming that it could not make such a judgment until the case went to trial.\n\nIn October 2007, Warner Bros. sued a group constructing a façade during a Hindu religious festival in the Indian city of Kolkata for , claiming that they had erected a giant replica of Harry Potter's school, Hogwarts, without their permission. Initial reports stated that, as the effort was not for profit, it did not violate Rowling's copyright. The Associated Press claimed that the High Court of Delhi, where the petition was filed, allowed the organisers to carry on with the temporary construction with an order that the structure had to be dismantled after the festival was over and that the court refused to impose any compensation on the basis that the organisers were involved in a \"non-profit making enterprise\". However, these statements were later retracted: the court had in fact ruled in favour of Warner Bros., but no fine had been ordered, and Warner Bros. claimed that they had only requested a fine because such action was necessary under Indian law. In November 2007, Rowling discussed the case on her website, listing the rumours that she had targeted a non-profit organisation as \"Toxic\" and saying, \"The defendants were not religious charities, and theirs was not a religious celebration. On the contrary, it was a large-scale, commercial, sponsored event involving corporations that included a major Indian high street bank. The event was, however, set up while a Hindu festival was going on ... The court ruled that Warner Bros. rights had indeed been infringed, and that events such as the one in question would need Warner Bros.' permission in the future. The court also restrained all the defendants from any future events infringing Warner Bros. rights.\"\n\nOn 31 October 2007, Warner Bros. and Rowling sued Michigan-based publishing firm RDR Books to block the publication of a 400-page book version of the Harry Potter Lexicon, an online reference guide to her work. Rowling, who previously had a good relationship with Lexicon owner Steve Vander Ark, reiterated on her website that she plans to write a \"Harry Potter\" encyclopedia, and that the publication of a similar book before her own would hurt the proceeds of the official encyclopedia, which she plans to give to charity. A judge later barred publication of the book in any form until the case was resolved. In their suit, Rowling's lawyers also asserted that, as the book describes itself as a print facsimile of the Harry Potter Lexicon website, it would publish excerpts from the novels and stills from the films without offering sufficient \"transformative\" material to be considered a separate work. The trial concluded on 17 April 2008. On 8 September 2008, the judge ruled in her favour, claiming that the book would violate the terms of fair use. In December, 2008, a modified (and shorter) version of Vander Ark's Lexicon was approved for publication and was released 16 January 2009 as \"The Lexicon: An Unauthorized Guide to Harry Potter Fiction\".\n\nIn November 2007, \"The Scotsman\" reported that Rowling had threatened legal action against American computer programmer G. Norman Lippert for allegedly violating her intellectual property rights by producing and publishing the online novel, \"James Potter and the Hall of Elders' Crossing\", an unofficial and unauthorised continuation of the \"Harry Potter\" series. Written as a fan fiction project for Lippert's wife and sons, the novel is set eighteen years after the end of the last official installment in the series, \"Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows\", and describes the adventures of Harry Potter's son, James Sirius Potter, during his first year at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry. A specialist in intellectual property law at Strathclyde University commented that, \"If an insubstantial character from a novel is taken and built up by another author in a new story, that can be a defence against copyright infringements.\" However, after Lippert offered Rowling an advance copy of the novel, Rowling dismissed her threat and said she supported the novel and any others like it. Lippert subsequently produced a sequel, \"James Potter and the Curse of the Gatekeeper\". After the novel first appeared online in early November 2007, some \"Harry Potter\" fans on the Internet initially speculated that the site might be part of an elaborate viral marketing campaign for an official continuation or spinoff of \"Harry Potter\", one either written or at least approved by Rowling herself. On 9 November 2007, Rowling's agent Neil Blair denied that Rowling was in any way involved with the purported project, and Warner Bros., the studio which owns the rights to the \"Harry Potter\" film series, denied that the novel was in any way connected to the official \"Harry Potter\" franchise.\n\nRowling and her publishers have brought a series of legal injunctions to ensure the books' secrecy before their launch. These injunctions have drawn criticism from civil liberties campaigners over their potentially sweeping powers over individual freedoms.\n\nIn 2003, in an attempt to maintain secrecy over the impending release of the fifth \"Harry Potter\" book, \"Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix\", Rowling and her publishers sought and received a groundbreaking injunction against \"the person or persons who has or have physical possession of a copy of the said book or any part thereof without the consent of the Claimants\". The ruling obtained, for the first time in British law, an injunction against unnamed or unknown individuals; before then, injunctions could only be obtained against named individuals. Lawyers Winterbothams noted that, \"The new \"Harry Potter\" style injunction could be used if you expected a demonstration or trespass to take place, but which had not yet begun, so long as you could find a description for the people expected which the Court was satisfied identified 'those who are included and those who are not'\". The \"Potter injunction\" was later used against a camp of Roma travellers. In 2006, pharmaceutical company GlaxoSmithKline employed the injunction against anonymous animal rights campaigners who had sent threatening letters to their investors.\n\nThe series garnered more controversy in 2005 with the release of the sixth book, \"Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince\", when a Real Canadian Superstore grocery store accidentally sold several copies before the authorised release date. The Canadian publisher, Raincoast Books, obtained an injunction from the Supreme Court of British Columbia prohibiting the purchasers from reading the books in their possession. A comment by a media lawyer that \"there is no human right to read\" led to a debate in the public sphere about whether free access to information was a human right. Michael Geist, the Canada Research Chair of Internet and E-commerce Law at the University of Ottawa, said in response, \"The copyright law claim was particularly puzzling. While copyright law does provide copyright owners with a basket of exclusive rights, the right to prohibit reading is not among them. In fact, copyright law has very little to say about what people can do with a book once they have purchased it.\" Free-speech activist Richard Stallman posted a statement on his blog calling for a boycott until the publisher issued an apology. Solicitors Fraser Milner and Casgrain, who represented Raincoast and formulated the legal argument for the embargo, have rebutted this, saying that the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms applies only to the government, not to private litigation, and does not offer any protection of the right to read in any case, and the innocent purchasers of the \"Harry Potter\" book had no more right to read it than if they had come into possession of someone's secret diary.\n\nIn 2007, Scholastic Corporation threatened legal action against two booksellers, Levy Home Entertainment and DeepDiscount.com, for selling copies of the final novel, \"Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows\", before its release date of 21 July. In an official statement, Scholastic appealed \"to the \"Harry Potter\" fans who bought their books from DeepDiscount.com and may receive copies early requesting that they keep the packages hidden until midnight on 21 July.\" Customers who agreed not to read the book received a special \"Harry Potter\" t-shirt and a $50 coupon for Scholastic's online store.\n\nIn June 2005, Aaron Lambert, a security guard at a book distribution centre in Corby, Northamptonshire, England, stole a number of pages from \"Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince\" six weeks before its intended publication date. He was arrested a day later after negotiations to sell them to John Askill, a journalist from \"The Sun\", turned violent. Lambert reportedly fired a shot from his imitation Walther PPK pistol, but Askill was unharmed. At his trial the following October, Lambert pleaded guilty to threatening Askill and to attempting to blackmail \"Harry Potter\"'s publishers, Bloomsbury. In January 2006, Lambert was sentenced to four and a half years in prison. In November 2011, in her testimony before the Leveson Inquiry, Rowling said that the \"Sun\" had attempted to \"blackmail\" her into a photo-op in return for returning the stolen manuscript.\n\nIn July 2007, a dispute arose between \"Harry Potter\"'s British publisher, Bloomsbury, and Asda, a British supermarket chain owned by the US corporation Wal-Mart. On 15 July, a week before the release of the final \"Harry Potter\" novel, \"Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows\", Asda issued a press release accusing Bloomsbury of unfairly fixing their prices. Asda spokesman Peter Pritchard claimed that Bloomsbury was \"holding children to ransom\" and that, \"[i]t seems like Bloomsbury need to do a quid-ditch as they have sent their prices up north on the Hogwarts Express. By setting the recommended retail price at this level can only be seen as blatant profiteering on their part.\" Pritchard went on to say that Asda was acting to \"champion the right of young readers\", and that the recommended retail price was \"twice the average child's pocket money and £5 more than the average children's bestseller\". Asda had planned to sell the book as a loss leader at £8.87 ($16.30), or half Bloomsbury's recommended retail price of £17.99 ($33.00) and below the wholesale price of £9.89 ($18.00).\n\nTwo days later, Bloomsbury responded that the claims were \"potentially libellous\" and that:\n\nAsda's latest attempt to draw attention to themselves involves trying to leap on the \"Harry Potter\" bandwagon. This is just another example of their repeated efforts of appearing as Robin Hood in the face of controversy about their worldwide group, which would suggest they are perceived as more akin to the Sheriff of Nottingham. Loss leaders were invented by supermarkets and have nothing to do with Bloomsbury Publishing or \"Harry Potter\" and we deeply regret having been dragged into their price-wars.\n\nBloomsbury stated that the price hike of £1 from the previous \"Harry Potter\" novel was due to it having been printed on recycled paper. \"There is a price to be paid by the consumer for environmental best practice\", a Bloomsbury spokeswoman said.\n\nBloomsbury CEO Nigel Newton said, \"[They have] unleashed a very disingenuous, self-interested attack on us. This is complete nonsense and all they're doing is grandstanding as they've done on the price of aspirin and bread. They try to turn it into a big deal as though it's a moral crusade for them, but it's nothing of the kind.\"\n\nThat same day, Bloomsbury cancelled all Asda's orders of \"Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows\", or roughly 500,000 copies, citing unpaid bills from the company totalling £38,000 ($70,000) for unauthorised returns of the sixth \"Harry Potter\" book. \"The two matters are completely unrelated\", said a Bloomsbury spokeswoman, \"We decided today that we couldn't risk having arrears with anybody.\" The dispute had been \"going on a while – going on for weeks actually.\" Asda responded that Bloomsbury owed them £122,000 ($224,000) (\"for pulping and for other book trade issues and work we have done for them\") and that, as one company spokesman claimed, \"It just seems funny that after we expose the potty Potter price hike, Bloomsbury are trying everything they can to stop kids getting hold of \"Harry Potter\" at a price they can afford.\"\n\nAsda paid the bill within hours, and claimed that Bloomsbury would be in breach of contract if it did not allow the store to sell its books. However, Bloomsbury claimed that the block on Asda's orders was still in place as, \"Unfortunately, we've now had to initiate a significant libel claim against them. That matter will have to be dealt with. If they want their 500,000 books, they'll have to come and make peace with us ... It could be good news for all their disappointed customers, because they don't have to go to a soulless Asda shed to buy their book and they can share the magic of \"Harry Potter\" at an independent or specialist bookstore instead.\"\n\nUpon receipt of Bloomsbury's legal letter, Asda responded that, \"There is nothing defamatory in our press release. Everything there is factual. It is a commentary on how we see things.\" Said another Asda spokesperson, \"If they don't supply us with the books, it will have a massive implication and [be] a breach of contract – but I don't think they will do that.\"\n\nLater that day, however, Asda released a statement retracting its original comment: \"We apologise unreservedly to Bloomsbury for [our] press release dated 15 July and withdraw our statement. We look forward to a good relationship with Bloomsbury going forward, including selling the latest \"Harry Potter\" book from 00:01 am BST on Saturday 21 July and many other Bloomsbury books in the future\". In response, Bloomsbury lifted the block and Asda was allowed to sell its books. The original press release was then expunged.\n\nThe rationale behind Asda's initial press release remains uncertain. Neill Denny, commentator for thebookseller.com, opined that \"the whole episode has the whiff of a badly-conceived PR stunt by ill-briefed senior executives at Asda out of touch with the subtleties of the book world.\" Ralph Baxter of Publishing News concurred: \"For Asda ... it may be seen as mission accomplished, a high-risk strategy to maximise publicity for its \"Harry Potter\" offer rewarded with television, radio, Internet and newspaper coverage. And the association of Asda with low prices has no doubt been entrenched in a few more minds.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "8532925", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8532925", "title": "Legal status of Salvia divinorum", "text": "Legal status of Salvia divinorum\n\nSalvia divinorum, a psychoactive plant, is legal in most countries. Exceptions, countries where there is some form of control, include Australia, Belgium, Brazil, Canada, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, Germany, Italy, Japan, South Korea, Poland, Spain, Sweden, Armenia and the United States.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, following a local newspaper story in October 2005, a parliamentary Early Day Motion was raised calling for \"Salvia divinorum\" to be banned there. However, it only received 11 signatures. A second Early Day Motion was raised in October 2008 attracting 18 signatures. The Advisory Council on the Misuse of Drugs, the independent body that advises UK government on drugs, has been asked to investigate further. On the 28 January 2016, the Psychoactive Substances Act 2016 was passed. The act came into force on 26 May 2016, across the entire United Kingdom, making \"salvia\" illegal to possess with intent to supply, possess on custodial premises, supply, import for human consumption, or produce for human consumption. The two sponsors for the bill were Conservative House of Lords member Michael Bates and Conservative MP Theresa May.\n\nIn such places where \"Salvia divinorum\" legislation exists, it varies in prohibitive degree from country to country. Australia has imposed its strictest 'Schedule 9' (US Schedule I equivalent or equivalent to class A in the UK) classification, for example, and Italy has also placed Salvia in its 'Table I' of controlled substances (also US Schedule I and class A equivalent). In Spain there are just controls focusing on the commercial trade of \"Salvia divinorum\", and private cultivation (growing one's own plants for non-commercial use) is not targeted.\n\nIn the United States, Salvia is not regulated under the Controlled Substances Act but some states, including Delaware, Illinois, Louisiana, Missouri, Virginia, Tennessee, Texas, and others, have passed their own laws. Several other states have proposed legislation against Salvia, including Alabama, Alaska, California, Florida, Georgia, Iowa, New Jersey, New York, Ohio, Oregon, and Pennsylvania. Many of these proposals have not made it into law, with motions having failed, stalled or otherwise died, for example at committee review stages.\n\nNational legislation for amendment of the Controlled Substances Act to place salvinorin A and \"Salvia divinorum\" in Schedule I at the federal level was proposed in 2002 by Representative Joe Baca (D- California). Those opposed to bill HR 5607 include Daniel Siebert, who sent a letter to Congress arguing against the proposed legislation, and the Center for Cognitive Liberty & Ethics (CCLE), who sent key members of the US Congress a report on \"Salvia divinorum\" and its active principle, along with letters from an array of scientists who expressed concern that scheduling \"Salvia divinorum\" would negatively impact important research on the plant. The bill did not pass.\n\nSalvia cultivation may prove difficult to police. The plant has a nondescript appearance; unlike cannabis the leaves are not distinctive and it does not have a distinctive odour. \"Salvia divinorum\" looks like and can be grown as an ordinary houseplant without the need of special equipment such as hydroponics or high-power lights.\nConcerns expressed by some politicians on the subject of Salvia echo those of the media. In November 2006, the morning after a story by news channel KSL was aired in Utah, warning its viewers about what it called \"this dangerous herb\", Utah State Representative Paul Ray (R) submitted a bill calling for its Schedule I classification in that state. KSL TV cameras were on Capitol Hill to see the paperwork filed, with KSL reporting - \"Moments after our story ended, Utah Representative Paul Ray began writing a bill to ban Salvia.\" As he presented the bill Ray said - \"It was upsetting to see we have a drug of that strength that's legal.\" and \"We're basically going to make it illegal to possess or sell. Period.\" Ray's action was further supported by the news channel in a subsequent KSL editorial. Viewer feedback was unanimously more critical.\n\nGeorgia State Senator John Bulloch (R) reportedly saw a report on an Atlanta television news station about the increased use of \"Salvia divinorum\". He was quoted as saying - \"I thought, 'Why hasn't somebody already jumped on this?\" before filing Senate Bill 295. \"I hurriedly got legislative counsel to draft the bill... Everything that I read about it is it's considered to be a hallucinogenic drug... A lot of the reading that I've found on it says that it gives a quicker and more intense high than LSD.\" Senator Don Thomas (R) was reported as saying -\"I just know about the publicity of the dangers of it, and the use of it, so my first impression is to ban anything of that nature.\"\n\nIn February 2007, the day after a Fox TV local news story on Salvia had aired in Milwaukee, Wisconsin state lawmaker Sheldon Wasserman (D), also a licensed physician, who had never heard of it before, spoke to Fox news in a follow-up report about then wanting to make it a Schedule I controlled substance.\n\nComparisons to LSD and particular focus on \"protecting our children\" are also echoed by politicians. In June 2007 the Wisconsin State Journal newspaper ran a front-page headline cover story about Salvia, reporting that Representative Wasserman had recently begun seeking sponsors for a bill that would ban the manufacture and sale of \"Salvia divinorum\" for consumption in Wisconsin. Dr. Wasserman was reported as saying - \"This bill is all about protecting our children\" and \"I want to stop the Salvia divinorum dealers who are pushing young people to experiment with a potentially dangerous substance.\"\n\nIn connection with his proposals to make \"Salvia divinorum\" and salvinorin A Schedule I controlled substances in Oregon, Representative John Lim (R) was quoted as saying - \"From what I understand this drug is at least as dangerous as marijuana or LSD\", and Seth Hatmaker, a spokesman for Lim - \"I think it's only a matter of time before we find people addicted to this stuff\".\n\nIn the state of Illinois, in support of his bill for Schedule I classification of \"Salvia divinorum\", Representative Dennis Reboletti (R) wrote in his own website that Salvia is a \"powerful psychoactive plant which in appearance looks like marijuana but has the psychoactive properties of LSD.\" and \"It's important that we in the legislature are proactive in protecting our children from highly addictive substances\" [...] \"For a drug to be classified as a Schedule 1 substance signifies that it's a highly dangerous and potentially lethal drug for its user. Hopefully, the passage of my bill will bring attention to \"Magic Mint\" and help law enforcement combat the future rise of this drug.\"\n\nOther references and sources indicate however that \"Salvia divinorum\" does not look like marijuana. Its psychoactive properties are not like those of LSD, and that Salvia divinorum is not generally understood to be either addictive or toxic.\n\nConcerns about driving while under the influence of Salvia have also been expressed. Delaware State Senator Karen Peterson (D), who introduced Schedule I classification of \"Salvia divinorum\" in Delaware, said - \"I, for one, don't want to be driving down Route 1 next to someone who is having an out-of-body experience\" and \"I thought this is not something that I would want people using driving around the streets of Delaware.\"\n\nThere has not been any evidence to suggest that Salvia use is problematic. Some \"arguments\" against Salvia have been of a preventative or imitative nature. North Dakota State Senator Randy Christmann (R) stated - \"we need to stop this before it gets to be a huge problem not after it gets to be a huge problem\" and New Jersey Assemblyman Jack Conners (D) argued -\"Salvia divinorum use may not be a runway epidemic, but it's certainly is a phenomenon that warrants attention. We should take preventive steps now to prevent wholesale problems later on\" In October 2005 MP John Mann raised an ultimately unsuccessful Early Day Motion calling for \"Salvia divinorum\" to be banned in the UK, saying - \"The Australians have clearly found a problem with it. There's obviously a risk in people taking it.\"\n\nThe National Institute on Money in State Politics indicates the major sources of campaign contributions for US politicians. For example, Oregon State Representative John Lim's largest individual campaign sponsor in 2006 was the Oregon Beer & Wine Distributors Association. Lim argued for Schedule I classification of Salvia in Oregon. Senator Karen Peterson's second largest group campaign donations in 2006 came from 'Beer, Wine & Liquor' industries. Peterson introduced Schedule I classification of \"Salvia divinorum\" in Delaware. Tennessee State Senator Tim Burchett (R) sponsored Salvia legislation in Tennessee. In 2006 his second largest individual campaign donation came from the Tennessee Malt Beverage Association. In the same period alcohol and tobacco related contributions amounted to the fourth largest industry contributions for Representative Paul Ray in Utah. Alcohol related contributions also featured highly for Representative Dennis Reboletti in Illinois - 'Beer, Wine & Liquor' was his seventh highest industry contributor.\n\nOpponents of more prohibitive measures against Salvia argue that such reactions are largely due to an inherent prejudice and a particular cultural bias rather than any actual balance of evidence, pointing out inconsistencies in attitudes toward other more toxic and addictive drugs such as alcohol and nicotine. The worldwide number of alcohol-related deaths is calculated at over 2,000 people per day, in the US the number is over 300 deaths per day. While not objecting to some form of legal control, in particular with regard to the sale to minors or sale of enhanced high-strength extracts, most Salvia proponents otherwise argue against stricter legislation.\n\nThose advocating consideration of \"Salvia divinorum\"'s potential for beneficial use in a modern context have two major arguments: First that Salvia Divinorum is a potent kappa opioid agonist and given its activity and modulatory effect on the kappa opioid receptor, and therefore similarity of its profile of effect to ibogaine, (used successfully to treat addiction around the world) that further research into its potential as a potent anti-addiction medication will be hindered by careless lawmaking. Secondly, advocates argue that more could be learned from Mazatec culture, where Salvia is not really associated with notions of drug taking at all and it is rather considered as a spiritual sacrament. In light of this it is argued that \"Salvia divinorum\" could be better understood more positively as an entheogen rather than pejoratively as a hallucinogen. Other entheogenic plants with continuing traditions principally of spiritual use include peyote (and other psychoactive cacti), iboga, virola, ayahuasca (an admixture of plants containing DMT + MAOI), and various types of psychoactive fungi. In fact, US legislation as it stands specifically allows two of these to be used in a spiritual context. The Native American Church is allowed to use peyote and União do Vegetal (or UDV) is permitted ayahuasca. Although not consistently granted (varying from state to state), the principal grounds for such concessions are constitutional, with further grounds following from the Religious Freedom Restoration Act.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "831817", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=831817", "title": "Lieber Code", "text": "Lieber Code\n\nThe Lieber Code of April 24, 1863, also known as Instructions for the Government of Armies of the United States in the Field, General Order № 100, or Lieber Instructions, was an instruction signed by US President Abraham Lincoln to the Union Forces of the United States during the American Civil War that dictated how soldiers should conduct themselves in wartime. Its name reflects its author, the German-American legal scholar and political philosopher Franz Lieber.\n\nLieber had fought for Prussia in the Napoleonic Wars and had been wounded at the Battle of Waterloo. He had lived and taught for two decades in South Carolina, where he was exposed to the horrors of slavery. Beginning in October 1861, as professor of history and political science at what became Columbia University, Lieber delivered a series of lectures at the new Law School entitled \"The Laws and Usages of War\". He believed the methods used in war needed to align with the goals and that the ends must justify the means.\n\nDuring the American Civil War, soldiers were faced with a number of ethical dilemmas. Lieber knew about some from his own European wartime experiences, as well as through his sons (two of whom fought for the Union, and another died fighting for the Confederacy near Williamsburg). While in St. Louis searching for one of his sons, who had been wounded at Fort Donelson, Lieber met Union General Henry Halleck, who had been a lawyer in civilian life and had published \"International Law, or, Rules Regulating the Intercourse of States in Peace and War\" in early 1861. As the war dragged on, the treatment of spies, guerrilla warriors, and civilian sympathizers became especially troublesome. So too was the treatment of escaped slaves, who were forbidden to return to their owners by an order of March 13, 1862. After Halleck became general-in-chief in July, 1862, he solicited Lieber's views. The professor responded with a report, \"Guerilla Parties Considered With Reference to the Laws and Usages of War\", and Halleck ordered 5000 copies printed. That same summer, Lieber advised Secretary of War Edwin Stanton concerning the \"military use of colored persons\".\n\nBy year's end, Halleck and Stanton invited Lieber to Washington to revise the 1806 Articles of War. Other members of the revision committee included Major Generals Ethan Allen Hitchcock, George Cadwalader, and George L. Hartsuff, and Brigadier General John Henry Martindale, but essentially Lieber was left to draft instructions for Union soldiers facing these situations. Halleck edited them to ensure nothing conflicted with Lincoln's Emancipation Proclamation. Then Lincoln issued them in April, 1863.\n\nThe main sections concerned martial law, military jurisdiction, and the treatment of spies, deserters, and prisoners of war.\n\nThe document insisted upon the humane, ethical treatment of populations in occupied areas. It was the first codified law that expressly forbade giving \"no quarter\" to the enemy (i.e. killing prisoners of war), except in such cases when the survival of the unit that held these prisoners was threatened. It forbade the use of poisons, stating that use of such puts any force who uses them entirely outside the pale of the civilized nations and peoples; it forbade the use of torture to extract confessions; it described the rights and duties of prisoners of war and of capturing forces. It described the state of war, the state of occupied territories, and the ends of war, and discusses permissible and impermissible means to attain those ends; it discussed the nature of states and sovereignties, and insurrections, rebellions, and wars. As such, it is widely considered to be the first written recital of the customary law of war, in force between the civilized nations and peoples since time immemorial, and the precursor to the Hague Regulations of 1907, the treaty-based restatement of the customary law of war.\n\nThe Lieber Code was which the Confederacy insisted was in violation of the customary rules of warfare. Moreover, Confederate officials such as Jefferson Davis had announced that the Confederacy would treat black Union soldiers as criminals, not as soldiers, subject to execution or re-enslavement upon capture.\n\nThe Lieber Code defended the lawfulness of Emancipation under the laws of war and insisted that those same laws prohibited discrimination on the basis of color among combatants.\n\nOne recent author says that the Code's association with Emancipation and the problem of black Union soldiers was so close that it ought to be called not Lieber's Code but Lincoln's Code since it was part and parcel of the most important decision of Lincoln's presidency.\n\nBoth the Lieber Code and the Hague Convention of 1907, which took much of the Lieber Code and wrote it into the international treaty law, included practices that would be considered illegal or extremely questionable by today's standards. In the event of the violation of the laws of war by an enemy, the Code permitted reprisal (by musketry) against the enemy's recently captured POWs; it permitted the summary execution (by musketry) of spies, saboteurs, francs-tireurs, and guerrilla forces, if caught in the act of carrying out their missions. (These allowable practices were later abolished by the Third and Fourth Geneva Conventions of 1949, following World War II, which saw these practices in the hands of totalitarian states used as the rule rather than the exception to such.)\n\nSuch terms reflected Lieber's deep interest in the ideas of Prussian military strategist Carl von Clausewitz. They also arose out of one of the Code's central aims, which was not merely to limit the war, but to legitimate its expansion in the move to Emancipation and a more aggressive war effort.\n\nHowever, the code envisioned a reciprocal relationship between the population and the Army. As long as the population did not resist military authority, it was to be treated well. Should the inhabitants violate this compact by taking up arms and supporting guerrilla movements, then they were open to sterner measures. Among these were the imposition of fines, the confiscation and/or destruction of property, the imprisonment and/or expulsion of civilians who aided guerrillas, the relocation of populations, the taking of hostages, and the possible execution of guerrillas who failed to abide by the laws of war. It authorized the shooting on sight of all persons not in uniform acting as soldiers and those committing, or seeking to commit, sabotage.\n\nPart of the Code follows:\n\nHistorians have often dismissed the role of the Code in the war effort. While it is true that commanders such as William Tecumseh Sherman rarely, if ever, consulted the Code in making combat decisions, the Code played a significant role nonetheless in the war's last two years. It provided a blueprint for hundreds of war crimes trials (i.e., charging people for violations of the laws and customs of war). Also, its provisions on black soldiers bolstered the Union's unpopular decision to cease prisoner exchanges so long as the South refused to exchange black prisoners on equal terms with white ones.\n\nParticipants in the international Hague Peace Conferences used Lieber's text as the basis for negotiations which resulted in the Hague Conventions of 1899 and 1907. These two international agreements set forth laws of land and naval warfare. Subsequently, during World War I and World War II, many of these laws were broken. Following World War II, jurists at the Nuremberg Trials and the Tokyo Trials ruled that by 1939 the rules for armed conflicts, particularly those concerning belligerent and neutral nationals, had been recognized by all civilized nations and thus could apply to officials even of countries that never signed the Hague Conventions. Some features of the Lieber Code are still evident in the Geneva Conventions of 1949.\n\nAn abridged version of the Lieber Code was published in 1899 in \"The War of the Rebellion: A Compilation of the Official Records of the Union and Confederate Armies\". Lieber's son, Guido Norman Lieber, was Judge Advocate General of the Army from 1895 until 1901, during the Spanish–American War and Philippine–American War. The Lieber Code therefore was used extensively during this period when considering and litigating actions by American forces against the native population and Philippine revolutionaries (e.g., J. Franklin Bell and Littleton Waller).\n\nIn 2015, the United States Department of Defense published its \"Law of War Manual\". It was updated and revised in May 2016. The \"Manual\" explicitly refers to the Lieber Code, and the Lieber Code's influence on the \"Law of War Manual\" is apparent throughout.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53247186", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53247186", "title": "List of Communist Party (Finland) breakaway parties", "text": "List of Communist Party (Finland) breakaway parties\n\nSince the founding of Communist Party in 1918 it has seen a steady number of splits and breakaway factions. Some of the breakaway organisations have thrived as independent parties, some have become defunct, while others have merged with the parent party or other political parties.\n"}
{"id": "47394952", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47394952", "title": "List of vetoed United Nations Security Council resolutions", "text": "List of vetoed United Nations Security Council resolutions\n\nThis is a list of United Nations Security Council Resolutions that have been vetoed by one of the five permanent members of the security council between 16 February 1946 to the present day.\n\n"}
{"id": "17005426", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17005426", "title": "Luxembourgish nationality law", "text": "Luxembourgish nationality law\n\nLuxembourgish nationality law is ruled by the Constitution of Luxembourg. The Grand Duchy of Luxembourg is a member state of the European Union and, therefore, its citizens are also EU citizens.\n\nLuxembourgish law generally follows \"jus sanguinis\" with limited \"jus soli\" provisions. Citizenship is automatically given to:\n\nNaturalization is permitted under several conditions:\n\nObtaining nationality by option is permitted to, among others:\n\nIt is also possible to \"recover\" Luxembourg nationality if one can prove he had an ancestor who was Luxembourgish as of 1 January 1900. The Luxembourg diaspora at the time moved to France, Belgium and the US. As of the end of 2013, thousands of people recovered the nationality of their Luxembourgish ancestor.\n\nSince 1 January 2009, Luxembourg has allowed dual citizenship. Since then, many Belgians have made use of the new law to adopt Belgian-Luxembourgish citizenship, especially Belgians living in Arelerland, a part of the Belgian province of Luxembourg at the border with the Grand Duchy.\n\nBecause Luxembourg forms part of the European Union, Luxembourgish citizens are also citizens of the European Union under European Union law and thus enjoy rights of free movement and have the right to vote in elections for the European Parliament. When in a non-EU country where there is no Luxembourgish embassy, Luxembourgish citizens have the right to get consular protection from the embassy of any other EU country present in that country. Luxembourgish citizens can live and work in any country within the EU as a result of the right of free movement and residence granted in Article 21 of the EU Treaty.\n\nVisa requirements for Luxembourgish citizens are administrative entry restrictions by the authorities of other states placed on citizens of Luxembourg. In 2015, Luxembourgish citizens had visa-free or visa-on-arrival access to 171 countries and territories, ranking the Luxembourgish passport 3rd in the world according to the Visa Restrictions Index.\n\nIn 2017, The Luxembourgish nationality is ranked sixteenth in Nationality Index (QNI). This index differs from the Visa Restrictions Index, which focuses on external factors including travel freedom. The QNI considers, in addition, to travel freedom on internal factors such as peace & stability, economic strength, and human development as well. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "219860", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219860", "title": "Matrimonial regime", "text": "Matrimonial regime\n\nMatrimonial regimes, or marital property systems, are systems of property ownership between spouses providing for the creation or absence of a marital estate, and if created, what properties are included in that estate, how and by whom it is managed, and how it will be divided and inherited at the end of the marriage. Matrimonial regimes are applied either by operation of law or by way of prenuptial agreement in civil-law countries, and depend on the \"lex domicilii\" of the spouses at the time of or immediately following the wedding. (See e.g. Quebec Civil Code and French Civil Code, arts. 431-492.). In most Common law jurisdictions, the default and only matrimonial regime is separation of property, though some U.S. states, known as community property states, are an exception. Also, in England, the birthplace of Common law, pre-nuptial agreements were until recently completely unrecognized, and although the principle of separation of property prevailed, Courts are enabled to make a series of orders upon divorce regulating the distribution of assets.\n\nCivil-law and bijuridical jurisdictions, including Quebec, Louisiana, France, South Africa, Italy, Germany, Switzerland, and many others, have statutory default matrimonial regimes, in addition to or, in some cases, in lieu of regimes that can only be contracted by prenuptial agreements. Generally, couples marry into some form of community of property by default, or instead contract out under separation of property or some other regime through a prenuptial agreement passed before a Civil-law notary or other public officer solemnizing the marriage. Five countries, including the Netherlands, have signed on to the Hague Convention on the Law applicable to Matrimonial Property Regimes, which entered into force on 1 September 1992, which allows spouses to choose not only the regimes offered by their country, but also any regime in force in the country where at least one is a citizen or resident or where marital real estate is situated.\n\nCoverture (sometimes spelled \"couverture\") was a legal doctrine whereby, upon marriage, a woman's legal rights were subsumed by those of her husband. Coverture was enshrined in the common law of England and the United States throughout most of the 19th century. The idea was described in William Blackstone's \"Commentaries on the Laws of England\" in the late 18th century.\n\nUnder traditional English common law an adult unmarried woman was considered to have the legal status of \"feme sole\", while a married woman had the status of \"feme covert\". These are English spellings of medieval Anglo-Norman phrases (the modern standard French spellings would be \"femme seule\" \"single woman\" and \"femme couverte\", literally \"covered woman\").\n\nA feme sole had the right to own property and make contracts in her own name. A feme covert was not recognized as having legal rights and obligations distinct from those of her husband in most respects. Instead, through marriage a woman's existence was incorporated into that of her husband, so that she had very few recognized individual rights of her own. A married woman could not own property, sign legal documents or enter into a contract, obtain an education against her husband's wishes, or keep a salary for herself. If a wife was permitted to work, under the laws of coverture she was required to relinquish her wages to her husband. \n\nThis situation persisted until the mid-to-late 19th century, when married women's property acts started to be passed in many English-speaking legal jurisdictions, setting the stage for further reforms.\n\nSeparate property systems are based on the premise that marriage is solely an interpersonal union\n\n\n\n\n\nCommunity property is premised on the theory that marriage creates an economic community between the spouses (who may be same- or opposite-sex); and that the marital property attaches to that interpersonal community, rather than to the spouses themselves. There are several genres of community property system.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12601507", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12601507", "title": "MedImmune, Inc. v. Genentech, Inc.", "text": "MedImmune, Inc. v. Genentech, Inc.\n\nMedImmune, Inc. v. Genentech, Inc., 549 U.S. 118 (2007) was a decision by the Supreme Court of the United States involving patent law. It arose from a lawsuit filed by MedImmune which challenged one of the Cabilly patents issued to Genentech. One of the central issues was whether a licensee retained the right to challenge a licensed patent, or whether this right was forfeited upon signing of the license agreement. The case related indirectly to past debate over whether the US should change to a first to file patent system - in 2011, President Obama signed the Leahy-Smith America Invents Act, which shifted the United States to a first-inventor-to-file patent system.\n\nThe origin of the dispute was a lengthy interference proceeding between Genentech and Celltech which led to the issuance of a new patent in 2001, 18 years after the original filing. This effectively granted Genentech a patent term of 29 years. MedImmune was a licensee of the later Cabilly patent, but argued that the term had been improperly extended and that it need not continue to pay royalties past the original expiry date in March 2006. The case was decided in favor of MedImmune, and the United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO) declared the patent invalid. Genentech appealed the USPTO the ruling and the patent remained valid and enforceable until the appeal was concluded. Genentech prevailed during the reexamination of Cabilly II(2) by the USPTO (1). GlaxoSmithKline and Human Genome Sciences both are challenging the patent under antitrust law (1). This is based on the settlement between Genentech and Celltech and their dispute over the original Cabilly patent 4,816,567 and the Celltech's patent 4,816,397. Both of which issued on March 28, 1989 (2),(3). Cabilly II is patent 6331415(4) which issued December 18, 2001.\n\nThe Court held that:\n\nReversed and remanded.\n\nJustice Thomas filed a dissenting opinion.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19856", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19856", "title": "Montreal Protocol", "text": "Montreal Protocol\n\nThe Montreal Protocol on Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer (a protocol to the Vienna Convention for the Protection of the Ozone Layer) is an international treaty designed to protect the ozone layer by phasing out the production of numerous substances that are responsible for ozone depletion. It was agreed on 26 August 1987, and entered into force on 26 August 1989, followed by a first meeting in Helsinki, May 1989. Since then, it has undergone eight revisions, in 1990 (London), 1991 (Nairobi), 1992 (Copenhagen), 1993 (Bangkok), 1995 (Vienna), 1997 (Montreal), 1998 (Australia), 1999 (Beijing) and 2016 (Kigali, adopted, but not in force). As a result of the international agreement, the ozone hole in Antarctica is slowly recovering. Climate projections indicate that the ozone layer will return to 1980 levels between 2050 and 2070. Due to its widespread adoption and implementation it has been hailed as an example of exceptional international co-operation, with Kofi Annan quoted as saying that \"perhaps the single most successful international agreement to date has been the Montreal Protocol\". In comparison, effective burden sharing and solution proposals mitigating regional conflicts of interest have been among the success factors for the ozone depletion challenge, where global regulation based on the Kyoto Protocol has failed to do so. In this case of the ozone depletion challenge, there was global regulation already being installed before a scientific consensus was established. Also, overall public opinion was convinced of possible imminent risks.\n\nThe two ozone treaties have been ratified by 197 parties, which includes 196 states and the European Union, making them the first universally ratified treaties in United Nations history.\n\nThese truly universal treaties have also been remarkable in the expedience of the policy-making process at the global scale, where only 14 years lapsed between a basic scientific research discovery (1973) and the international agreement signed (1985 & 1987).\n\nThe treaty is structured around several groups of halogenated hydrocarbons that deplete stratospheric ozone. All of the ozone depleting substances controlled by the Montreal Protocol contain either chlorine or bromine (substances containing only fluorine do not harm the ozone layer). Some ozone-depleting substances (ODSs) are not yet controlled by the Montreal Protocol, including nitrous oxide (N2O) For a table of ozone-depleting substances controlled by the Montreal Protocol see:\n\nFor each group of ODSs, the treaty provides a timetable on which the production of those substances must be shot out and eventually eliminated. This included a 10-year phase-in for developing countries identified in Article 5 of the treaty.\n\nThe stated purpose of the treaty is that the signatory states\n\n\"Recognizing that worldwide emissions of certain substances can significantly deplete and otherwise modify the ozone layer in a manner that is likely to result in adverse effects on human health and the environment. Determined to protect the ozone layer by taking precautionary measures to control equitably total global emissions of substances that deplete it with the ultimate objective of their elimination on the basis of developments in scientific knowledge\"\n\n\"Acknowledging that special provision is required to meet the needs of developing countries\"\n\nshall accept a series of stepped limits on CFC use and production, including:\n\nThere was a faster phase-out of halon-1211, -2402, -1301, There was a slower phase-out (to zero by 2010) of other substances (halon 1211, 1301, 2402; CFCs 13, 111, 112, etc.) and some chemicals were given individual attention (Carbon tetrachloride; 1,1,1-trichloroethane). The phasing-out of the less damaging HCFCs only began in 1996 and will go on until a complete phasing-out is achieved by 2030.\n\nThere were a few exceptions for \"essential uses\", where no acceptable substitutes were initially found (for example, in the past metered dose inhalers commonly used to treat asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease were exempt) or Halon fire suppression systems used in submarines and aircraft (but not in general industry).\n\nThe substances in Group I of Annex A are:\n\n\nThe provisions of the Protocol include the requirement that the Parties to the Protocol base their future decisions on the current scientific, environmental, technical, and economic information that is assessed through panels drawn from the worldwide expert communities. To provide that input to the decision-making process, advances in understanding on these topics were assessed in 1989, 1991, 1994, 1998 and 2002 in a series of reports entitled Scientific assessment of ozone depletion, by the Scientific Assessment Panel (SAP). \n\nIn 1990 a Technology and Economic Assessment Panel was also established as the technology and economics advisory body to the Montreal Protocol Parties. The Technology and Economic Assessment Panel (TEAP) provides, at the request of Parties, technical information related to the alternative technologies that have been investigated and employed to make it possible to virtually eliminate use of Ozone Depleting Substances (such as CFCs and Halons), that harm the ozone layer. The TEAP is also tasked by the Parties every year to assess and evaluate various technical issues including evaluating nominations for essential use exemptions for CFCs and halons, and nominations for critical use exemptions for methyl bromide. TEAP’s annual reports are a basis for the Parties’ informed decision-making.\n\nNumerous reports have been published by various inter-governmental, governmental and non-governmental organizations to catalogue and assess alternatives to the ozone depleting substances, since the substances have been used in various technical sectors, like in refrigeration, air conditioning, flexible and rigid foam, fire protection, aerospace, electronics, agriculture, and laboratory measurements\n\nUnder the Montreal Protocol on Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer, especially Executive Committee (ExCom) 53/37 and ExCom 54/39, Parties to this Protocol agreed to set year 2013 as the time to freeze the consumption and production of HCFCs for developing countries. For developed counties, reduction of HCFC consumption and production began in 2004 and 2010, respectively, with 100% reduction set for 2020. Developing countries agreed to start reducing its consumption and production of HCFCs by 2015, with 100% reduction set for 2030.\n\nThe HCFCs are transitional CFCs replacements, used as refrigerants, solvents, blowing agents for plastic foam manufacture, and fire extinguishers. In terms of ozone depletion potential (ODP), in comparison to CFCs that have ODP 0.6 – 1.0, these HCFCs have lower ODPs (0.01 – 0.5). In terms of global warming potential (GWP), in comparison to CFCs that have GWP 4,680 – 10,720, HCFCs have lower GWPs (76 – 2,270).\n\nHydrochlorofluorocarbons, commonly known as HCFCs, are a group of man-made compounds containing hydrogen, chlorine, fluorine and carbon. They are not found anywhere in nature. HCFC production began to take off after countries agreed to phase out the use of CFCs in the 1980s, which were found to be destroying the ozone layer. Like CFCs, HCFCs are used for refrigeration, aerosol propellants, foam manufacture and air conditioning. Unlike the CFCs however, most HCFCs are broken down in the lowest part of the atmosphere, and pose a much smaller risk to the ozone layer. Unfortunately HCFCs are also very potent greenhouse gases, despite their very low atmospheric concentrations, measured in parts per trillion (million million).\n\nProduced mostly in developed countries, hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs) replaced CFCs and HCFCs. HFCs pose no harm to the ozone layer because, unlike CFCs and HCFCs, they do not contain chlorine. They are however greenhouse gases, with a high global warming potential (GWP), comparable to that of CFCs and HCFCs. Thus, in 2009, a study calculated that a fast phasedown of high-GWP HFCs could potentially prevent the equivalent of up to 8.8 Gt CO2-eq \"per year\" in emissions by 2050. A proposed phasedown of HFCs was hence projected to avoid up to 0.5C of warming by 2100 under the high-HFC growth scenario, and up to 0.35C under the low-HFC growth scenario. Recognizing the opportunity presented for fast and effective phasing down of HFCs through the Montreal Protocol, starting in 2009 the Federated States of Micronesia proposed an amendment to phase down high-GWP HFCs, with the U.S., Canada, and Mexico following with a similar proposal in 2010.\n\nAfter seven years of negotiations, in October 2016 at the 28th Meeting of the Parties to the Montreal Protocol in Kigali, the Parties to the Montreal Protocol adopted the Kigali Amendment whereby the Parties agreed to phasedown HFCs under the Montreal Protocol. The amendment to the legally-binding Montreal Protocol will ensure that industrialised countries bring down their HFC production and consumption by at least 85 per cent compared to their annual average values in the period 2011-2013. A group of developing countries including China, Brazil and South Africa are mandated to reduce their HFC use by 85 per cent of their average value in 2020-22 by the year 2045. India and some other developing countries — Iran, Iraq, Pakistan, and some oil economies like Saudi Arabia and Kuwait — will cut down their HFCs by 85 per cent of their values in 2024-26 by the year 2047.\n\nOn 17 November 2017, ahead of the 29th Meeting of the Parties of the Montreal Protocol, Sweden became the 20th Party to ratify the Kigali Amendment, pushing the Amendment over its ratification threshold ensuring that the Amendment will enter into force 1 January 2019.\n\nIn 1973, the chemists Frank Sherwood Rowland and Mario Molina, who were then at the University of California, Irvine, began studying the impacts of CFCs in the Earth's atmosphere. They discovered that CFC molecules were stable enough to remain in the atmosphere until they got up into the middle of the stratosphere where they would finally (after an average of 50–100 years for two common CFCs) be broken down by ultraviolet radiation releasing a chlorine atom. Rowland and Molina then proposed that these chlorine atoms might be expected to cause the breakdown of large amounts of ozone (O) in the stratosphere. Their argument was based upon an analogy to contemporary work by Paul J. Crutzen and Harold Johnston, which had shown that nitric oxide (NO) could catalyze the destruction of ozone. (Several other scientists, including Ralph Cicerone, Richard Stolarski, Michael McElroy, and Steven Wofsy had independently proposed that chlorine could catalyze ozone loss, but none had realized that CFCs were a potentially large source of chlorine.) Crutzen, Molina and Rowland were awarded the 1995 Nobel Prize for Chemistry for their work on this problem.\n\nThe environmental consequence of this discovery was that, since stratospheric ozone absorbs most of the ultraviolet-B (UV-B) radiation reaching the surface of the planet, depletion of the ozone layer by CFCs would lead to an increase in UV-B radiation at the surface, resulting in an increase in skin cancer and other impacts such as damage to crops and to marine phytoplankton.\n\nBut the Rowland-Molina hypothesis was strongly disputed by representatives of the aerosol and halocarbon industries. The chair of the board of DuPont was quoted as saying that ozone depletion theory is \"a science fiction tale...a load of rubbish...utter nonsense\". Robert Abplanalp, the president of Precision Valve Corporation (and inventor of the first practical aerosol spray can valve), wrote to the Chancellor of UC Irvine to complain about Rowland's public statements (Roan, p. 56.)\n\nAfter publishing their pivotal paper in June 1974, Rowland and Molina testified at a\nhearing before the U.S. House of Representatives in December 1974. As a result, significant funding was made available to study various aspects of the problem and to confirm the initial findings. In 1976, the U.S. National Academy of Sciences (NAS) released a report that confirmed the scientific credibility of the ozone depletion hypothesis. NAS continued to publish assessments of related science for the next decade.\n\nThen, in 1985, British Antarctic Survey scientists Joe Farman, Brian Gardiner and Jonathan Shanklin published results of abnormally low ozone concentrations above Halley Bay near the South Pole. They speculated that this was connected to increased levels of CFCs in the atmosphere. It took several other attempts to establish the Antarctic losses as real and significant, especially after NASA had retrieved matching data from its satellite recordings. The impact of these studies, the metaphor 'ozone hole', and the colourful visual representation in a time lapse animation proved shocking enough for negotiators in Montreal, Canada to take the issue seriously.\n\nAlso in 1985, 20 nations, including most of the major CFC producers, signed the Vienna Convention, which established a framework for negotiating international regulations on ozone-depleting substances. After the discovery of the ozone hole \nby SAGE 2 it only took 18 months to reach a binding agreement in Montreal, Canada.\n\nBut the CFC industry did not give up that easily. As late as 1986, the Alliance for Responsible CFC Policy (an association representing the CFC industry founded by DuPont) was still arguing that the science was too uncertain to justify any action. In 1987, DuPont testified before the US Congress that \"We believe there is no imminent crisis that demands unilateral regulation.\" And even in March 1988, Du Pont Chair Richard E. Heckert would write in a letter to the United States Senate, \"we will not produce a product unless it can be made, used, handled and disposed of safely and consistent with appropriate safety, health and environmental quality criteria. At the moment, scientific evidence does not point to the need for dramatic CFC emission reductions. There is no available measure of the contribution of CFCs to any observed ozone change...\"\n\nThe main objective of the \"Multilateral Fund for the Implementation of the Montreal Protocol\" is to assist developing country parties to the Montreal Protocol whose annual per capita consumption and production of ozone depleting substances (ODS) is less than 0.3 kg to comply with the control measures of the Protocol. Currently, 147 of the 196 Parties to the Montreal Protocol meet these criteria (they are referred to as Article 5 countries).\n\nIt embodies the principle agreed at the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development in 1992 that countries have a common but differentiated responsibility to protect and manage the global commons.\n\nThe Fund is managed by an Executive Committee with an equal representation of seven industrialized and seven Article 5 countries, which are elected annually by a Meeting of the Parties. The Committee reports annually to the Meeting of the Parties on its operations. The work of the Multilateral Fund on the ground in developing countries is carried out by four Implementing Agencies, which have contractual agreements with the Executive Committee:\n\n\nUp to 20 percent of the contributions of contributing parties can also be delivered through their bilateral agencies in the form of eligible projects and activities.\n\nThe fund is replenished on a three-year basis by the donors. Pledges amount to US$3.1 billion over the period 1991 to 2005. Funds are used, for example, to finance the conversion of existing manufacturing processes, train personnel, pay royalties and patent rights on new technologies, and establish national ozone offices.\n\nAs of 23 June 2015, all countries in the United Nations, the Cook Islands, Holy See, Niue as well as the European Union have ratified the original Montreal Protocol (see external link below), with South Sudan being the last country to ratify the agreement, bringing the total to 197. These countries have also ratified the London, Copenhagen, Montreal, and Beijing amendments.\n\nSince the Montreal Protocol came into effect, the atmospheric concentrations of the most important chlorofluorocarbons and related chlorinated hydrocarbons have either leveled off or decreased. Halon concentrations have continued to increase, as the halons presently stored in fire extinguishers are released, but their rate of increase has slowed and their abundances are expected to begin to decline by about 2020. Also, the concentration of the HCFCs increased drastically at least partly because for many uses (e.g. used as solvents or refrigerating agents) CFCs were substituted with HCFCs. While there have been reports of attempts by individuals to circumvent the ban, e.g. by smuggling CFCs from undeveloped to developed nations, the overall level of compliance has been high. Statistical analysis from 2010 show a clear positive signal from the Montreal Protocol to the stratospheric ozone. In consequence, the Montreal Protocol has often been called the most successful international environmental agreement to date. In a 2001 report, NASA found the ozone thinning over Antarctica had remained the same thickness for the previous three years, however in 2003 the ozone hole grew to its second largest size. The most recent (2006) scientific evaluation of the effects of the Montreal Protocol states, \"The Montreal Protocol is working: There is clear evidence of a decrease in the atmospheric burden of ozone-depleting substances and some early signs of stratospheric ozone recovery.\" However, a more recent study seems to point to a relative increase in CFCs due to an unknown source. \n\nReported in 1997, significant production of CFCs occurred in Russia for sale on the black market to the EU throughout the 90s. Related US production and consumption was enabled by fraudulent reporting due to poor enforcement mechanisms. Similar illegal markets for CFCs were detected in Taiwan, Korea, and Hong Kong. .\n\nThe Montreal Protocol is also expected to have effects on human health. A 2015 report by the U. S. Environmental Protection Agency estimates that the protection of the ozone layer under the treaty will prevent over 280 million cases of skin cancer, 1.5 million skin cancer deaths, and 45 million cataracts in the United States.\n\nHowever, the hydrochlorofluorocarbons, or HCFCs, and hydrofluorocarbons, or HFCs, are now thought to contribute to anthropogenic global warming. On a molecule-for-molecule basis, these compounds are up to 10,000 times more potent greenhouse gases than carbon dioxide. The Montreal Protocol currently calls for a complete phase-out of HCFCs by 2030, but does not place any restriction on HFCs. Since the CFCs themselves are equally powerful greenhouse gases, the mere substitution of HFCs for CFCs does not significantly increase the rate of anthropogenic climate change, but over time a steady increase in their use could increase the danger that human activity will change the climate.\n\nPolicy experts have advocated for increased efforts to link ozone protection efforts to climate protection efforts. Policy decisions in one arena affect the costs and effectiveness of environmental improvements in the other.\n\nIn 2018, scientists monitoring the atmosphere following the 2010 phaseout date have reported evidence of continuing industrial production of CFC-11, likely in eastern Asia, with detrimental global effects on the ozone layer. A monitoring study detected fresh atmospheric releases of carbon tetrachloride from China's Shandong province, beginning sometime after 2012, and accounting for a large part of emissions exceeding global estimates under the Montreal Protocol.\n\nThe year 2012 marked the 25th anniversary of the signing of the Montreal Protocol. Accordingly, the Montreal Protocol community organized a range of celebrations at the national, regional and international levels to publicize its considerable success to date and to consider the work ahead for the future.\nAmong its accomplishments are: The Montreal Protocol was the first international treaty to address a global environmental regulatory challenge; the first to embrace the \"precautionary principle\" in its design for science-based policymaking; the first treaty where independent experts on atmospheric science, environmental impacts, chemical technology, and economics, reported directly to Parties, without edit or censorship, functioning under norms of professionalism, peer review, and respect; the first to provide for national differences in responsibility and financial capacity to respond by establishing a multilateral fund for technology transfer; the first MEA with stringent reporting, trade, and binding chemical phase-out obligations for both developed and developing countries; and, the first treaty with a financial mechanism managed democratically by an Executive Board with equal representation by developed and developing countries.\n\nWithin 25 years of signing, parties to the MP celebrate significant milestones. Significantly, the world has phased-out 98% of the Ozone-Depleting Substances (ODS) contained in nearly 100 hazardous chemicals worldwide; every country is in compliance with stringent obligations; and, the MP has achieved the status of the first global regime with universal ratification; even the newest member state, South Sudan, ratified in 2013. UNEP received accolades for achieving global consensus that \"demonstrates the world’s commitment to ozone protection, and more broadly, to global environmental protection\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24459556", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24459556", "title": "Parental Rights Amendment to the United States Constitution", "text": "Parental Rights Amendment to the United States Constitution\n\nThe Parental Rights Amendment to the United States Constitution is a proposed change to the United States Constitution. The amendment's advocates say that it will allow parents' rights to direct the upbringing of their children, protected from federal interference and the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child. The Amendment was first proposed during the 110th Congress as House Joint Resolution 97 in July 2008, but no action was taken during that Congress. The Amendment has been described as a \"wedge issue\" and part of the culture wars.\n\nThe current language (as proposed in S.J.Res.36) is as follows:\nSECTION 1\nThe liberty of parents to direct the upbringing, education, and care of their children is a fundamental right.\nSECTION 2\nThe parental right to direct education includes the right to choose, as an alternative to public education, private, religious, or home schools, and the right to make reasonable choices within public schools for one's child.\nSECTION 3\nNeither the United States nor any State shall infringe these rights without demonstrating that its governmental interest as applied to the person is of the highest order and not otherwise served.SECTION 4\nThe parental rights guaranteed by this article shall not be denied or abridged on account of disability.\nSECTION 5\nThis article shall not be construed to apply to a parental action or decision that would end life.\nSECTION 6\nNo treaty may be adopted nor shall any source of international law be employed to supersede, modify, interpret, or apply to the rights guaranteed by this article.\n\nThe Parental Rights Amendment was proposed by Rep. Pete Hoekstra (R-MI) as H.J. Res. 97 on June 26, 2008, but had no additional sponsors. On July 28, 2008, it was referred to the Subcommittee on the Constitution, Civil Rights, and Civil Liberties.\n\nThe Parental Rights Amendment was proposed by Rep. Pete Hoekstra (R-MI) on March 31, 2009, and numbered H.J.Res.42. On April 27, 2009, it was referred to the Subcommittee on the Constitution, Civil Rights, and Civil Liberties. It garnered 141 cosponsors.\n\nIn the Senate, an identical bill (which was numbered S.J.Res.13) was introduced by Sen. David Vitter (R-LA) on March 3, 2009, but had no additional sponsors. It was referred to the Committee on the Judiciary.\n\nOn May 14, 2009, Sen. Jim DeMint (R-SC) proposed the Parental Rights Amendment with an additional section clarifying that \"This article shall take effect after the date of ratification.\" It was numbered S.J.Res.16; it was referred to the Committee on the Judiciary. It received 6 cosponsors.\n\nThe Parental Rights Amendment was proposed multiple times in the 112th Congress.\n\nOn January 5, 2011, Rep. John Fleming (R-LA) proposed the Parental Rights Amendment without the additional section added in S.J.Res.16; it was numbered H.J.Res.3. It was referred to the Subcommittee on the Constitution on January 24, 2011. It received 17 cosponsors.\n\nOn March 29, 2012, Rep. Trent Franks (R-AZ), chairman of the Subcommittee on the Constitution, proposed the Parental Rights Amendment with a slightly modified first section; it was numbered H.J.Res.107. It was also referred to the Subcommittee on the Constitution on April 9, 2012. It received 21 cosponsors.\n\nOn June 5, 2012, Rep. Trent Franks (R-AZ) again proposed the Parental Rights Amendment with a slightly modified first section and an additional section clarifying that \"This article shall not be construed to apply to a parental action or decision that would end life\"; it was numbered H.J.Res.110. On June 18, it was referred to the Subcommittee on the Constitution, and on July 18, subcommittee hearings were held. It received 85 cosponsors.\n\nIn the Senate, Sen. Jim DeMint (R-SC) proposed a resolution identical to H.J.Res.110 on June 5, 2012; it was numbered S.J.Res.42. It was referred to the Senate Judiciary Committee. It received 12 cosponsors.\n\nThe Parental Rights Amendment was proposed, with the first section expanded into two sections, by Rep. Mark Meadows (R-NC) on June 18, 2013, and numbered H.J.Res.50. It was referred to the Subcommittee on the Constitution and Civil Justice. It received 80 cosponsors.\n\nIn the Senate, the Parental Rights Amendment was proposed by Sen. Lindsey Graham (R-SC) on June 4, 2014, with identical wording as in the House. It was numbered S.J.Res.37. It was referred to the Senate Judiciary Committee. It received 5 cosponsors.\n\nThe Parental Rights Amendment was again proposed by Rep. Trent Franks (R-AZ), with modified wording; it was numbered H.J.Res.91. It was referred to the Subcommittee on the Constitution and Civil Justice on May 17, 2016. It currently has 10 cosponsors.\n\nIn the Senate, Sen. Lindsey Graham (R-SC) proposed the Parental Rights Amendment with its current wording on June 29, 2016. It was numbered S.J.Res.36. It was referred to the Senate Judiciary Committee. It had 5 cosponsors as of July 25, 2016.\n\nIn 2010 the legislatures of Louisiana and South Dakota adopted resolutions calling on the U.S. Congress to propose the Parental Rights Amendment to the States for ratification. In 2011, the legislatures in Idaho, Montana, and Florida passed similar resolutions. In 2012, Wyoming passed a similar resolution.\n\nSupport for the amendment is found at organizations such as the American Family Association, Concerned Women for America, Focus on the Family, Liberty Counsel, and the Traditional Values Coalition. Proponents of the amendment at ParentalRights.org contend that it will preserve the rights of children, arguing that the question is not one of child rights versus parents' rights, but whether parents, or the government can best decide what is in a child's best interest. They contend that Section Three of their proposal will preserve the authority of the State to intercede for children who are abused or neglected, just as it exists today.\n\nRep. Hoekstra has cited Antonin Scalia's dissenting opinion in \"Troxel v. Granville\", where he argued that the Constitution did not confer upon judges the power to recognize parental rights not explicitly enumerated, as a motivation for the Amendment.\n\nProponents of the amendment often cite concern over possible U.S. ratification of the United Nations' Convention on the Rights of the Child. Article Six, Section Two of the Constitution incorporates treaties ratified by the Senate into U.S. law, requiring state and federal judges to uphold treaty obligations. Constitutional lawyer Michael Farris, author and chief proponent of the Amendment, expresses concern that ratifying the convention would disrupt state-level family law and shift power from the State to the federal government, leading to interference in the parent-child relationship.\n\nFarris and allied organizations also cite the theory of customary international law as a threat, claiming that elements of the Convention might become binding on the United States even without ratification.\n\nTom Head of About.com contends that the proposal contains \"numerous 'poison pills' that would prevent it from being supported by mainstream civil libertarians,\" saying that its language is overbroad and would enable abuse and neglect by parents. He describes the amendment as unserious, meant more as a \"rallying point\" for \"ultra-conservative legislators\" than as a genuine amendment to the Constitution.\n\nSen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) says that the amendment was crafted in response to the U.N.'s Convention on the Rights of the Child, but that the Convention is not a real threat to parental rights; therefore, an amendment is not necessary. Mary Landrieu (D-LA) points out that the Convention has not been ratified, and asserts that even if it is ratified, it will not infringe upon existing laws.\n\nLarry Kaseman of Home Education magazine argues that the Amendment's focus on rights rather than responsibilities will empower parents to treat their children like property and shelter unfit parents from punishment for neglect and abuse. Kaseman also holds that parental rights exist separately from federal law, and expresses concern that a constitutional amendment would federalize family law, granting the government the power to give, define, limit, regulate, and take away parental rights. He argues that the Ninth Amendment to the United States Constitution already protects parental rights.\n\nDeborah Stevenson of National Home Education Legal Defense (NHELD) argues, citing the Tenth Amendment, that parental rights fall within state jurisdiction and that the issue should be resolved at the state level.\n\n"}
{"id": "3256893", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3256893", "title": "Pomponia Graecina", "text": "Pomponia Graecina\n\nPomponia Graecina (d. 83 AD) was a noble Roman woman of the 1st century who was related to the Julio-Claudian dynasty. She was the wife of Aulus Plautius, the general who led the Roman conquest of Britain in 43 AD, and was renowned as one of the few people who dared to publicly mourn the death of a kinswoman killed by the Imperial family. It has been speculated that she was an early Christian. She is identified by some as Lucina or Lucy, a saint honoured by the Roman Catholic Church.\n\nPomponia's background is not certain, but can be reconstructed as follows. Her father was probably Gaius Pomponius Graecinus, who was suffect consul in 16 AD and a correspondent of Ovid. Graecinus' wife was Asinia, sister of Gaius Asinius Pollio, and through her Pomponia was related to the Imperial family.\n\nAsinia's father, Gaius Asinius Gallus, was consul in 8 BC, and her mother Vipsania, was the daughter of the general and politician Marcus Vipsanius Agrippa. By her former husband, the future emperor Tiberius, Vipsania was also the mother of Drusus the Younger. Vipsania's half-siblings, from her father's marriage to Augustus' daughter Julia, included Agrippina the Elder, mother of the emperor Caligula and Agrippina the Younger, who was the mother of Nero and wife of Claudius.\n\nOther notable ancestors on her mother's side include the historian and senator Gaius Asinius Pollio, who was consul in 40 BC.\n\nPomponia married Aulus Plautius (d. by 65 AD), the senator and general who led the Roman conquest of Britain in 43 AD, for which he later received a military ovation, and who governed Roman Britain until 47 AD. A younger Aulus Plautius, probably their son, was murdered by the emperor Nero, supposedly because Nero's mother Agrippina had fallen in love with him and encouraged him to bid for the throne.\n\nIn 43 AD Pomponia's relative Julia, daughter of her uncle Drusus Julius Caesar, was executed on the orders of her maternal uncle, the emperor Claudius at the instigation of the empress Valeria Messalina. Pomponia spent the next forty years in open mourning in defiance of successive emperors. She escaped punishment for this, possibly as a result of her own illustrious ancestry and her husband's sterling military reputation, which gave her prestige. According to Tacitus, Pomponia lived a long, unhappy life, possibly as a result of her son's murder and the deaths of several relatives associated with the Imperial family. In 57 AD Pomponia was charged with practicing a \"foreign superstition\", which has been taken by some to mean conversion to Christianity, although there were other regulated cults in ancient Rome. According to ancient Roman tradition, she was tried by her husband before her kinsmen, and acquitted. She died in 83 AD.\n\nInscriptions in the catacombs of Saint Callistus in Rome suggest that later members of Pomponia’s family were indeed Christians. The archaeologist Battista de Rossi controversially identifies her with Saint Lucina, the purported donor of the part of the catacombs where the inscriptions were found, and suggests that Lucina was Pomponia's baptismal name. Saint Lucina is honored by the Roman Catholic Church on the 30 June. She is said to have visited the martyrs Martinian and Processus, the two former guards at the Mamertine Prison who had been converted in the prison by their prisoner Saint Peter, and buried their bodies after their execution.\n\nPomponia Graecina and her husband Aulus Plautius are informal adoptive parents of Ligia, the heroine of Henryk Sienkiewicz's 1895 historical novel \"Quo Vadis\". The novel presents both Pomponia and her adoptive daughter as secret Christians, something that Plautius either does not know or chooses to ignore. In the 1951 film adaptation she was played by Nora Swinburne.\n\nPomponia is portrayed in \"When the Eagle Hunts\", a novel of historical fiction from the Eagle Series by Simon Scarrow. In the story, Pomponia and her two children are captured and held hostage by Druids resisting the Roman invasion of Britain, while a rescue is attempted by the series' two main characters.\n\nGiovanni Pascoli's poem \"Pomponia Graecina\" won him the gold medal at the in 1910.\n\nShe also makes an appearance in David Wishart's Family Commitments, part of the Marcus Corvinus series\n"}
{"id": "44487224", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44487224", "title": "Practising certificate", "text": "Practising certificate\n\nA practising certificate is a licence to practise a particular profession.\n\nIn the legal profession, solicitors and barristers may need a current practising certificate before they can offer their services. The authority that administers the practising certificate varies by jurisdiction.\n\nIn Australia, the authority that issues the practising certificate depends on whether the lawyer is a barrister or solicitor (or in jurisdictions where these roles are fused, both) and the state or territory in which they are practising. In Queensland for example, solicitors' practising certificates are issued by the Queensland Law Society, which also functions as a representative body for solicitors. In the case of barristers, the Queensland Bar Association issues practising certificates.\n\nThe Fiji Law Society issued practising certificates until 2009, when the government of Frank Bainimarama banned it from doing so. Lawyers' certificates were made to expire seven months early, and each lawyer was required to obtain a new certificate from the Chief Registrar of the High Court. The Law Council of Australia issued a statement, expressing concern that this was part of a move for the government to control Fiji's legal profession to prevent opponents of the military coup of 5 December 2006 from practising law.\n\nSolicitors in Ireland are required to have a practicing certificate in order to provide legal advice. Practicing certificates are issued by the Registrar of Solicitors at the Law Society of Ireland and solicitors must reapply annually to receive a certificate valid for one year. It is a criminal offence to practice without a certificate.\n\nThe Solicitors Regulation Authority regulates solicitors and issues their certificates.\n\n"}
{"id": "13127646", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13127646", "title": "Registered representative (securities)", "text": "Registered representative (securities)\n\nA registered representative, also called a general securities representative, a stockbroker, or an account executive, is an individual who is licensed to sell securities and has the legal power of an agent in the United States.\n\nRegistered representatives usually work for broker/dealers licensed by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and the Self Regulatory Organizations (SRO) of the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) and Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA). \n\nTo become a registered representative in the United States, one must be sponsored by a broker/dealer firm and must pass the FINRA-administered Series 7 examination (known as the General Securities Representative Exam) or another Limited Representative Qualifications Exam. Some state laws and broker/dealer policies also require the Series 63 examination (known as the Uniform Securities Agent State Law Exam). \n\nA registered representative (\"RR\" or \"rep\" or \"broker\") is authorized to sell a large array of securities such as stocks, bonds, options, mutual funds, limited partnership programs and variable annuities. Registered representatives who sell variable products such as variable annuities or variable universal life insurance policies typically also must obtain the appropriate state insurance department license(s).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21552967", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21552967", "title": "Somaliland constitutional referendum, 2001", "text": "Somaliland constitutional referendum, 2001\n\nA constitutional referendum was held in Somaliland on 31 May 2001, an internationally recognized autonomous region in Somalia. The referendum was held on a draft constitution that affirmed Somaliland's independence from Somalia as a separate state. Two-thirds of eligible voters took part in the referendum and 97.1% of them voted in favour of the constitution. However the referendum was opposed by the Government of Somalia and did not lead to any international recognition of Somaliland's separatism.\n\nIn May 1991 after the fall of the military dictator of Somalia, Siad Barre, the Somali National Movement declared the independence of Somaliland. In 1993 an executive presidency was set up with a bicameral legislature and Muhammad Haji Ibrahim Egal was elected president by a council of elders. In 1997, at a Conference of Somaliland Communities in Hargeisa, a constitution was adopted to last for 3 years until a referendum could take place to bring it into full effect. The constitution was amended in 2000 and the referendum was delayed by one year till 2001. Meanwhile, the attempts to form a national government of Somalia and the formation of the Transitional National Government of Somalia in May 2000 encouraged Somaliland to hold a referendum to try to show Somaliland's desire for independence.\n\nThe referendum in effect became a vote on the independence of Somaliland due to the inclusion in the constitution of a clause on Somaliland's independence. There was no census or voter lists so community elders decided who was eligible to vote in the referendum.\n\nThe Transitional Federal Government of Somalia opposed the referendum, describing it as illegal and said that the government of Somaliland had no authority to unilaterally separate from Somalia. The referendum was also opposed by the leadership of the neighbouring region of Puntland as provocative. No international organisation or country supported the referendum.\n\nA team of ten observers from the Initiative and Referendum Institute observed the referendum. They were only able to visit 57 of the 600 polling stations and avoided the Sool region entirely due to security concerns. However, in those stations recorded they reported that the referendum was open, fair, peaceful and any fraud was rare and insignificant. Nothing is known about the quality of the rest.\n\nThe President of Somaliland, Muhammad Haji Ibrahim Egal, described the referendum as having made Somaliland into a nation and put an end to any question of reuniting with Somalia. However, despite the support for independence demonstrated in the referendum, no nation has recognised the independence of Somaliland since then, due to fears over ever increasing numbers of unsustainable small states and the African Union's opposition to the splitting of existing states.\n"}
{"id": "753713", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=753713", "title": "State Farm Arena (Atlanta)", "text": "State Farm Arena (Atlanta)\n\nState Farm Arena (formerly Philips Arena) is a multi-purpose indoor arena located in Atlanta, Georgia. The arena serves as the home venue for the National Basketball Association (NBA)'s Atlanta Hawks. It also served as home to the National Hockey League's Atlanta Thrashers from 1999 to 2011, before the team moved to Winnipeg, and the Women's National Basketball Association (WNBA)'s Atlanta Dream from 2008 to 2016. It opened in 1999 at a cost of $213.5 million, replacing the Omni Coliseum. It is owned by the Atlanta Fulton County Recreation Authority and operated by the Hawks, owned by Tony Ressler along with a group of investors including Grant Hill.\n\nThe arena seats 19,050 for basketball and 17,624 for ice hockey. The largest crowd ever for an Atlanta Hawks basketball game at the arena was Game 6 of the 2008 Eastern Conference Quarterfinals on May 2, 2008 (against the Boston Celtics), where there was an announced attendance of 20,425. The arena includes 92 luxury suites, 9 party suites, and 1,866 club seats. For concerts and other entertainment events, the arena can seat 21,000.\n\nThe arena was originally laid out in a rather unusual manner, with the club seats and luxury boxes aligned solely along one side of the playing surface, and the general admission seating along the other three sides (the arrangement was later emulated in Ford Field, UCF Arena, Soldier Field, Levi's Stadium, and other venues). This layout was a vast contrast to many of its contemporaries, which have their revenue-generating luxury boxes and club seats located in the 'belly' of the arena, thus causing the upper deck to be 2–4 stories higher. The layout at Philips was done so as to be able to bring the bulk of the seats closer to the playing surface while still making available a sufficient number of revenue-raising club seats and loges; however, the 2017–18 renovations had removed the upper levels of the suite wall in favor of premium seating spread throughout the arena. \n\nOn the exterior, angled steel columns supporting the roof facing downtown spell out \"ATLANTA.\" The side facing the Georgia World Congress Center originally spelled out \"CNN\" (whose headquarters adjoins the arena), but that section has since been altered to accommodate a Taco Mac restaurant. The Dome/GWCC/Philips Arena/CNN Center rail station below the arena provides access to MARTA public transportation.\n\nAmsterdam-based technology company Philips purchased the initial naming rights to the arena in February 1999 for $185 million over 20 years. In February 2018, it was reported that Philips would not renew its naming rights agreement for the arena when it expires in June 2019, primarily due to Philips' withdrawal from the consumer electronics market in 2013. On August 29, 2018, State Farm purchased the naming rights to the arena, in a deal that will last for 20 years and cost $175 million.\n\nFor the 2007–2008 season, State Farm Arena utilized the new \"see-through\" shot clock units which allow spectators seated behind the basket to see the action without having the clocks interfere with their view, joining FedExForum, Wells Fargo Center, TD Garden, United Center, Talking Stick Resort Arena and the Spectrum Center. Video advertising panels replaced the traditional scrolling panels.\n\nTitle banners\n\n\n\n\nDuring the late 1980s and early 1990s, many cities started building new state-of-the-art sporting venues for their NBA and/or NHL franchises, or in hopes of attaining one. Many of these arenas had modern amenities for their high-end customers, such as luxury boxes, club seats, and large, posh club-level concourses; some even had practice facilities on-site. These attractions were rarely found in arenas constructed in the early 1970s, when the Omni Coliseum was built. However, it is likely that the Omni would have had to be replaced in any event. It had been built using Cor-Ten weathering steel that was intended to seal itself, ensuring it would last for decades. However, the Omni's designers didn't account for Atlanta's humid climate. The Cor-Ten steel never stopped rusting, causing the arena to deteriorate faster than anticipated.\n\nTed Turner, owner of the Hawks at the time, wanted to bring NHL hockey back to Atlanta; the city's first NHL team, the Atlanta Flames, had moved to Calgary in 1980. However, the NHL determined that the Omni was not suitable even as a temporary facility due to its lack of amenities and structural problems. The league told Turner that it would only grant an expansion team on condition that a new arena be in place for the prospective team's inaugural season. After much consideration of possible other sites both in Downtown Atlanta and in the suburbs, it was decided that the Omni would be demolished in 1997, and a new arena would be built in the same location; the Omni was demolished on July 26, 1997. The Hawks split their games between the Georgia Dome and Alexander Memorial Coliseum for the next two seasons while Philips Arena was under construction.\n\nPhilips Arena held its first event with a September 1999 concert by the musician Sir Elton John. The Omni's \"center-hung scoreboard\" now hangs in the lobby of Philips Arena, where it still displays the Omni's logo along with those of Philips Arena, the Hawks, and the Thrashers (who never played in The Omni). The scoreboard still functions and displays information relevant to the game taking place in the arena. On April 2, 2009, Philips Arena achieved LEED for Existing Building: Operations and Maintenance certification as specified by the United States Green Building Council (USGBC). It was the world's first LEED certified NBA/NHL arena. It has been nicknamed the \"Highlight Factory\", due to the number of exciting plays, or highlights, that occur and Philips' history with lights and electronics.\n\nThe arena hosted the NBA All-Star Game in 2003 and the Atlantic Coast Conference Men's Basketball Tournament in 2012.\n\nThe first playoff game in any professional league played in Philips Arena was in 2005, when the Georgia Force of the Arena Football League hosted, and won, its first home playoff game. The first NHL playoff game in Philips Arena was in 2007, the Thrashers' only appearance in the Stanley Cup Playoffs. The first NBA playoff game in Philips Arena was in 2008, when the Hawks made the 2008 NBA Playoffs after an eight-season drought of missing the playoffs. On April 10, 2011, the Thrashers lost to the Pittsburgh Penguins, 5–2, in their final game. Tim Stapleton scored the final goal for the Thrashers in team history.\n\nThe venue had been named the site of the 2005 Southeastern Conference Women's Basketball Tournament; however, when the NHL announced in early 2004 that the 55th NHL All-Star Game, scheduled for February 2005 would be held in Atlanta, arena officials withdrew the Southeastern Conference Women's Basketball Tournament – which was then moved 140 miles to the northeast along Interstate 85 to the BI-LO Center in Greenville, South Carolina. Oddly, the arena would not even be the host of that planned All-Star Game due to the 2004–05 NHL lockout. As a result, Atlanta became the second (San Jose being the first) city to lose a planned All-Star Game because of a labor dispute. Philips Arena would later be announced as home to the 56th NHL All-Star Game in 2008. Also, Philips Arena hosted game three of the 2010 WNBA Finals, where the Seattle Storm defeated the Atlanta Dream.\n\nIn 2013, Philips Arena hosted the finals of the men's NCAA Division II and Division III college basketball championships. The events were held as an undercard to the 2013 NCAA Final Four held at the Georgia Dome, in celebration of the 75th edition of the NCAA Men's Division I Basketball Championship.\n\nThe arena hosted UFC 88, UFC 145, and UFC 201 in 2008, 2012, and 2016 respectively. Philips Arena also hosted the 2011 WWE Hall of Fame induction ceremony, the night before WrestleMania XXVII which was held at the Georgia Dome. Philips Arena also hosted Royal Rumble (2002), Backlash (2007), Royal Rumble (2010), Hell in a Cell (2012), and Survivor Series (2015).\n\nState Farm Arena is among the busiest arenas for concerts in the world, having sold well over 550,000 concert tickets in 2007 and ranked as the third-busiest arena in the U.S. in 2011.\n\nThe arena hosted the 2004 US Figure Skating Championships.\n\nEvery year in January, the State Farm Arena hosts one of the largest Christian college aged conferences: Passion Conference. The conference typically takes place over the first weekend in the new year and features big names in the Christian world such as Louie Gigilio, Chris Tomlin, Matt Redman, Kristian Stanfill, John Piper, rap artist Lecrae and many more. The conference is typically sold out.\n\nShortly after acquiring the Hawks and the operating rights to Philips Arena on June 24, 2015, Tony Ressler announced his intentions of remodeling the arena to keep the Hawks in Downtown Atlanta at a cost between $150 million and $250 million. The proposed renovation would rebuild the entire seating bowl to optimize its sightlines for basketball and remove the wall of suites which dominate one side of the arena and replace them with a more traditional suite configuration. The Hawks are also in discussions with the city about building a mixed-use entertainment district similar to L.A. Live around Philips Arena, to better connect it to other nearby attractions such as Centennial Olympic Park and Mercedes-Benz Stadium. On November 1, 2016, the Hawks and the city of Atlanta reached a financing agreement on renovating Philips Arena, with the city contributing $142.5 million and the Hawks $50 million plus cost overruns to the project. With the renovation, the Hawks signed a lease extension lasting through June 30, 2046, with an early termination penalty of $200 million plus the remaining balance of the arena's bonds. \n\nThe first phase of renovations, completed during the Hawks' 2017 off-season, removed the upper levels of the suite wall, reducing the total number of suites from 90 to 40, and added the Courtside Club behind one of the baskets. Renovations for 2018 were described by Hawks chief operating officer Thad Sheely as a \"gut rehab\". The arena renovations brought new premium seating areas, connected 360-degree concourses, a new center-hung videoboard three times larger than its predecessor as well as additional videoboards in the corners of the upper decks, new dining options including a bar and grill operated by country group Zac Brown Band and other unique features including an in-arena barber shop operated by Atlanta rapper Killer Mike and Topgolf suites. Over of former office and storage space within the arena was repurposed as \"fan space\". The first ticketed event at the renovated State Farm Arena was So So Def's 25th anniversary concert on October 21, 2018, while the Hawks' first regular season home game took place on October 24 against the Dallas Mavericks.\n\nDue to the renovations conflicting with the WNBA schedule, the Dream announced that they would move their 2017 and 2018 home schedules to McCamish Pavilion on the campus of Georgia Tech, mirroring the Hawks' move to the same venue between the time the Omni was razed and State Farm Arena was built.\n\nOn March 14, 2008, an EF1 Tornado struck near Philips Arena. The arena only received minor exterior damage.\n"}
{"id": "4418107", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4418107", "title": "Terumot", "text": "Terumot\n\nTerumot (, lit. \"Donations\") is the sixth tractate of \"Seder Zeraim\" (\"Order of Seeds\") of the \"Mishnah\". It discusses two type of donations; one the terumah which is generally 1/50 of one's crop given to the Kohen and 10% of the Maaser that is given to Levite, which is given to the Kohen, called \"Terumat Maaser.\" The laws of Terumah are still applicable to produce grown in the Land of Israel. There is debate as to whether the present day obligation is Biblical or Rabbinic. These laws are also mentioned in detail in the tractates \"Demai\" and \"Ma'aserot\".\n"}
{"id": "50269754", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50269754", "title": "Timeline of animal welfare and rights", "text": "Timeline of animal welfare and rights\n\nThis page is a timeline of major events in the history of animal welfare and animal rights.\n\n"}
{"id": "41486", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41486", "title": "Title 47 CFR Part 68", "text": "Title 47 CFR Part 68\n\nTitle 47 CFR Part 68 is a section of the Code of Federal Regulations of the United States that regulate the direct electrical connection of telecommunications equipment and customer premises wiring with the public switched telephone network, certain private line services, and connection of private branch exchange (PBX) equipment to certain telecommunication interfaces.\n\n\nPart 68 rules provide the technical and procedural standards under which direct electrical connection of customer-provided telephone equipment, systems, and protective apparatus may be made to the nationwide network without causing harm and without a requirement for protective circuit arrangements in the service-provider networks.\n\nThe equivalent European regulation is called TBR21.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39590239", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39590239", "title": "Turkish labour law", "text": "Turkish labour law\n\nTurkish labour law provides a number of protections to employees, governed by the Labor Code, Trade Union Law, and the Constitution.\n\nLabor unions are legal in Turkey, and have been present since 1947. The Constitution of Turkey affirms the right of workers to form unions \"without obtaining permission\" and \"to possess the right to become a member of a union and to freely withdraw from membership\" (Article 51). Articles 53 and 54 affirm the right of workers to engage in collective bargaining and to strike, respectively. However, Turkish unions do face certain restrictions. A union must represent at least 10% of Turkish employees to be recognized as a bargaining agent, and workers in the education, national defense, sanitation, and utilities industries are banned from striking.\n\nThe Labor Act of 2003 establishes a 45-hour workweek, and unless otherwise agreed upon, working time will be divided equally among days worked. With a written contract, work can be divided unequally among working days, but must not exceed 11 hours in a single day. Any work beyond 45 hours in a single week is considered overtime work, which is compensated with a raise of the hourly rate of the workers' salary by 50%. The total number of overtime hours worked may not exceed 270 hours a year. There are no standard workweeks or regulations for specific working hours in Turkey; employers may arrange the number of days and decide on the specific hours worked within the legal limits on work hours per week. The Labor Act bans discrimination based on sex, religion, or political affiliation, and mandates that employees should only be terminated with \"valid cause\". Those fired without what is deemed to be valid cause are entitled to be compensated through severance pay and \"notice pay\" for the employers' failure to provide adequate notice to the employee. The law also mandates that any employment arrangement lasting at least one year must be expressed in a written contract between the employer and employee.\n\nFull-time employees who have worked a minimum of one year are entitled to 14 working days' paid leave per year. This increases to 20 working days after 5 years, and 26 working days after 15 years. In addition, there are eight paid holidays per year (six public holidays and two periods of religious holidays).\n\nTurkish child labor law sets the minimum age for part-time employment at 13, on condition that it is not hard physical labor and they continue to attend school, and the minimum age for full-time employment at 15. In spite of this, illegal child labor is not uncommon, especially among poor families and in rural areas.\n\nTurkey is a member of the International Labour Organization, and a signatory to the Freedom of Association and Protection of the Right to Organise Convention and Right to Organise and Collective Bargaining Convention, 1949.\n\n"}
{"id": "35519105", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35519105", "title": "Very Simple Control Protocol", "text": "Very Simple Control Protocol\n\nThe Very Simple Control Protocol (VSCP) is a free automation protocol suitable for all sorts of automation task where building- or home-automation is in the main focus.\n\nIts main advantage is that each VSCP-node can work completely autonomous, being part of distributed network of other nodes.\n\nVSCP is independent from the physical layer (e.g. CAN bus, Ethernet, RS-485, RS-232, MiWi) connecting the individual nodes to form the automation network bus. On the bus there can be nodes reading switches, controlling lighting, blinds, windows or information displays, broadcasting physical measurements (e.g. temperature, luminosity, power consumption, etc.), multimedia control, burglar- or fire-alarm, etc.\n\nThere is a subset of the protocol (Level I) that is very much tailored to the CAN bus and resource restricted microcontrollers. Protocol Level II is designed for Ethernet (UDP, TCP and own Ethernet-type \"Raw-Ethernet\") and wireless physical layers. All share the same common message fields and framework and can be connected through gateways.\n\nVSCP is based on \"events\". Each time an \"event\" occurs it is broadcast towards all other nodes. Each node on the network will receive the event and will decide if this event needs to be handled or not.\nThe example given in the diagram describes a button being pressed. This will result in node 1 sending an event message onto the bus informing all others the button is pressed. Node 2 receives the message but decides this button should not trigger an event for node 2. Node 3 receives the message and decides this button should trigger lamp 2 to turn on.\n\nThere can be \"events\" for all sorts of things happening: an event can be a button pressed, a presence sensor being triggered, or the sun setting. Events can also be sent periodically, for instance a temperature reading every minute. VSCP predefines many events that could be happening. These events are defined into classes and types. Whether or not an event received should be handled is determined by the \"decision matrix\" or DM in short. Also the DM is explained further.\n\nEvents are organized into \"Classes\". A class is a collection of events that somehow belong together. There are classes for \"ALARM\", \"MEASUREMENTS\", \"CONTROL\", \"INFORMATION\", etc. Currently VSCP specifies about 25 classes, but has room for many more 1. Each class is on its turn subdivided into \"types\". A type further specifies the event within the class. For instance, events of Class \"20\" (0x14) are \"INFORMATION\" events. In this class there is a subtype \"1\" (0x01) \"BUTTON\" signaling a button being pressed. In this same INFORMATION class there are also types to signal \"ON\", \"OFF\", \"BELOW LIMIT\", etc. Likewise in class \"measurements\" there are types to signal temperature, current, voltage, etc. Having all these classes and types defined makes the nodes speak the same language. For a full list of pre-defines classes & types check the VSCP wiki.\n\nEvents that are broadcast contain a number of fields together forming one VSCP datagram. Exactly how these fields are mapped onto the physical layer is specified for a number of physical layer protocols such as CAN, Ethernet, TCP, etc. For others it is not yet\ndefined, but it is in general not difficult to map these fields onto a physical layer protocol. There are 2 \"levels\" of the VSCP protocol called \"LEVEL I\" & \"LEVEL II\". They are both basically the same protocol but differ in size of the different fields.\n\nLevel I is intended to run on nodes with more constrained resources and fields are defined a bit more conservatively. Level I is in fact a subset of level II, and with an appropriate gateway events can transverse between a Level I & II network.\n\nLevel II is intended to be run on nodes that have little resource constraints and can easily cope with larger message sizes.\n\nWhen events are received by a node the node needs to determine if it needs to execute a task based on that event. This is done by evaluating the \"decision matrix\" or DM in short. The DM matrix is made of a number of IF ... THEN ... conditions. Each such IF/THEN condition is called a \"line\" and multiple lines make up the decision matrix.\n\nThe Class and Type of the incoming message is always evaluated by a DM line. Evaluating Class & Type is done by passing the Class/Type through a mask first and then comparing with a filter.\nThis method allows multiple class/Types to trigger a valid condition for 1 line of the DM. The other conditions for the DM line (SenderGUID, Zone, Subzone) are optionally evaluated.\nIf the DM line is valid then the \"ACTION\" is executed. Together with the \"ACTION\" there is an \"ACTION parameters\". An example ACTION would be: \"turn-on relay 6\" with \"6\" being the \"action parameter\".\nExactly which ACTIONs are possible by the receiving node is determined by the design of the node itself. It is up to the firmware developer to define which actions can be executed. By then documenting the possible action in the MDF file (see later) the configuration SW will know how to select this action.\nThe DM can be modified by setting the appropriate node configuration registers. A convenient way to do this is using the VSCPWorks configuration SW.\n\nAn event being sent can also carry a data payload. The content & organization of this payload is depending on the class and type of the event. For example, an event of class \"10\" (measurement) and type \"6\" (temperature) will carry the temperature data (with coding determined by byte 0, degrees or Celsius) in its payload. A \"button\" event will carry information about the button & button zone/subzone in its datapayload. For each class/type the data formatting is determined in the spec, please consult the wiki for details.\n\nSome (quite some) events contain a field \"zone\" and a field \"subzone\" in their datapayload.\nThis functionality is present to make \"grouping\" of nodes possible.\nFor instance we could determine that all buttons controlling a certain lamp are part of the same group. This simplifies the DM for certain scenarios. Instead of having one DM line as the lamp node for each button (1 line per button: IF button x then turn-on lamp) we could have 1 DM line only saying \"IF (zone match) THEN turn-on lamp\". Making multiple node switches part of a group is done by configuring the nodes, the firmware of the node will support this functionality.\n\nA node needs to be configured appropriately before it will execute its function. Each VSCP node provides its own set of configuration registers tailored for its function. A button node would have some possibility to configure the zone/subzones the buttons belong to. A\ntemperature node would have some possibility to set trigger values. Also configuring the DM is part of configuring a node.\n\nConfiguring a node is done by writing to \"registers\". Each (Level I) node provides access to 256 registers. The highest 128 registers are reserved for VSCP core functions. In these 128 registers we find items such as node GUID, Nickname, MDF and a paging register. The lower 128 registers are free for application specific use. If 128 registers are not sufficient then there is a 16bit paging possibility. This allows for 65536 x 128 8bit registers for application use.\nWriting/reading these registers is done using \"CLASS 0\" events. \"Class 0\" events are \"VSCP protocol functionality\" messages intended for configuring and managing nodes.\n\nKeeping track of which register serves what purpose can be a challenge, especially for the application specific registers. But this is where the module description file or MDF comes in. The MDF file is a machine-readable XML file describing the function of each register of a module, giving the configuration options for that register, etc. This file is used by configuration software (VSCPWorks) to show configuration options specific for the module addressed. The MDF file can be stored on the node itself and fetched from there by\nVSCPWorks, but more commonly the MDF file will be an XML file hosted on a webserver somewhere. A node then just needs to inform VSCPWorks where (URL) the XML file can be found. This URL is present in the VSCP reserved registers 0xE0-0xFF.\n\nVSCPworks is the PC (Linux & Windows)-based tool to configure and manage the nodes. VSCPWorks allows reading/setting registers presenting those registers in a human-readable format by parsing the MDF file automatically. VSCPWorks also provides wizards to set the decision matrix.\n\nIf VSCP is the protocol \"VSCP & Friends\" is used to name a software API, schema and abstraction layer built around VSCP. \"VSCP & Friends\" allow for layered abstractions of legacy devices by using drivers that make them look like VSCP devices. This means any device can be controlled and monitored with the VSCP & Friends framework. \"VSCP & Friends\" solves four common IoT and M2M problems\n\n"}
{"id": "19121248", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19121248", "title": "Working Party on the Reorganisation of the Income Tax Act 1976", "text": "Working Party on the Reorganisation of the Income Tax Act 1976\n\nThe Working Party on the Reorganisation of the Income Tax Act 1976 was a committee appointed by the New Zealand government to advise on the appropriate reorganisation of the income tax legislation. The Working Party was set up in 1993 as a result of recommendations made by the Valabh Committee set up to review the overall income tax system. The Working Party comprised Arthur Valabh (Chair), Dame Margaret Bazley, and Sir Kenneth Keith.\n\nThe Working Party issued two reports on the reorganisation of the then Income Tax Act 1976. Following on from these reports the government in 1995 established a review process for rewriting the income tax legislation, overseen by an advisory panel drawn from the private and public sectors.\n\nThe Income Tax Act has since been largely rewritten in a plain English style with a radically re-organised structure, including a unique (for New Zealand) alpha-numeric section referencing system (as opposed to the more usual numeric system. It was re-enacted as the Income Tax Act 1994 and again as the Income Tax Act 2007 as the various parts of the legislation was progressively rewritten.\n\nThe Rewrite Advisory Panel was established initially to oversee the rewrite process, but from 2004 it was also tasked with determining whether there are errors (or \"unintended legislative changes\") in the rewriting of the Income Tax Acts. The Panel was disestablished in 2014. Its chairs were Colin Blair (1995–2003), Sir Ivor Richardson (2003-08) and David McLay (2008–14).\n"}
