{"id": "741569", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=741569", "title": "136 Austria", "text": "136 Austria\n\nAustria (minor planet designation: 136 Austria) is a main-belt asteroid that was found by the prolific asteroid discoverer Johann Palisa on 18 March 1874, from the Austrian Naval Observatory in Pola, Istria. It was his first asteroid discovery and was given the Latin name of his homeland.\n\nBased upon its spectrum, it is classified as an M-type spectrum, although Clark et al. (1994) suggest it may be more like an S-type asteroid. It shows almost no absorption features in the near infrared, which may indicate an iron or enstatite chondrite surface composition. A weak hydration feature was detected in 2006.\n\nPhotometric observations of this asteroid at the European Southern Observatory in 1981 gave a light curve with a period of 11.5 ± 0.1 hours and a brightness variation of 0.40 in magnitude. As of 2013, the estimated rotation period is 11.4969 hours.\n\n"}
{"id": "52199391", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52199391", "title": "40 Devonshire Street", "text": "40 Devonshire Street\n\n40 Devonshire Street is a grade II listed town house in Devonshire Street, in the City of Westminster, London.\n\nThe house was built around 1910 in red brick with stone dressings in the arts and crafts Georgian revival style on a tall stone plinth. It was part of an attempt by the Portland Estate to revive the residential character of the area which they felt had become too professional. It is current used as the health office of the Embassy of Kuwait in London.\n"}
{"id": "3735097", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3735097", "title": "A494 road", "text": "A494 road\n\nThe A494 is a trunk road in Wales. The route, which is officially known as the Dolgellau to South of Birkenhead Trunk Road, runs between the terminus of the M56 motorway between Mollington and Capenhurst and the A470 at Dolgellau, Gwynedd. Its northern sections remain among the busiest roads in Wales.\n\nThe original routes into North Wales meant using fords when the Dee estuary was at low tide north west of Chester. But when the river was canalised in the 1730s several new coach roads were laid out through Sealand, Shotton and Queensferry. These were built by the Dee Company under the River Dee Act of 1743 to serve the hand-operated ferries which had replaced the fords.\n\nBy 1861 the ferry at Shotton was steam operated, with an engine house on the Queensferry side. In 1897 the ferry was replaced by an innovative retractable bridge because of increasing mechanised transport. The Queen Victoria Jubilee Toll Bridge, which was built from iron, stone and wood, could retract its middle sections for the passage of river traffic. However, by the early 1920s, increasing numbers of motor vehicles and the narrowness of the bridge made the area notorious for traffic congestion. These issues prompted its replacement.\nIn 1926 a rolling bascule bridge, called the New Jubilee Bridge, was opened by the Ministry of Transport for the newly named A494. Its design allowed river traffic to use the wharfs at Saltney. The original bridge was demolished although the stone abutments can still be seen today. \nThe steel bridge remained the sole road crossing at Queensferry until the late 1950s. \n\nBut its size and design had limitations, a news report at the time stated it \"is barely wide enough for two lines of vehicles, and five-mile traffic jams are normal\". \nIn the late 1960s, the A494 was upgraded to a dual carriageway from Drome corner. The original route through Shotton and Queensferry was bypassed after a wider fixed-arched bridge was constructed across the River Dee. This was facilitated by reduction of larger river traffic following the closure of the sea-going wharfs at Saltney.\n\nThe present route had remained unchanged until a lane upgrade in 2004.\n\nThis section forms part of the North Wales coast route between Holyhead and the M56 motorway. The section of the A494 north of the River Dee was upgraded to 4-lanes plus hard shoulders in each direction in 2004 as part of a wider scheme, which upgraded the A550 as well, although not all of the lanes on the A494 have been opened. \n\nThe next stage of the scheme was to widen a stretch of the A494 from the River Dee up Aston Hill to the \"Ewloe Interchange\", the junction of the A55 and A494, to 3 and 4-lane plus hard shoulder standard. \n\nIn April 2006, local residents living at Aston Hill, part of the proposed route, began a campaign to oppose any further widening of the A494. After 15 months, protesters' high-profile message had garnered more than 2300 individual letters and numerous petitions rejecting the proposals. A Planning Inquiry was held in September - October 2007. \n\nIn March 2008 the proposals (in entirety) were ordered to be scrapped by the Ieuan Wyn Jones, Deputy First Minister, responsible for Transport at the Welsh Assembly.\n\n\"In reaching my decision I have taken account of the concerns raised by the inspector that the overall size of the scheme would have a significant impact on the landscape and would affect walking and cycling routes. I have also noted [the planning inspector's] remarks that while he considers that this section of the A494 will need some form of improvement in the foreseeable future, he considers that the scale of the scheme as originally proposed is greater than required.\" Deputy First Minister Ieuan Wyn Jones\nThis part of the A494 will remain a two-lane dual carriageway and the speed limit will be . The decision has left a question mark over the future of the remaining upgrade at \"Ewloe Interchange\".\n\nResentment also remains within the Aston Hill community as thirty households were evicted from their homes earlier in the scheme. These houses were earmarked to be demolished to make way for the road-widening works. No decision has been made about the future of these properties.\n\nJust past Ewloe interchange the A55 converges with the A494. At this point the dual carriageway becomes the A55 and the A494 diverges onto a single-carriageway trunk road. This section is approximately in length. It is largely national speed limit with exceptions through urbanised areas.\n\nThe A494, which follows a largely unchanged historic route, passes Mold through the Clwydian Mountains, down to Ruthin and on to the market town of Corwen. Although it follows the traditional coach route, work has been undertaken over many decades to improve various sections of this road. For instance a bypass was completed in 1999 to allow traffic to avoid Mold's town centre. Likewise a dangerous road junction for Moel Famau, just outside Loggerheads, that was on a bend and blind brow has now been completely bypassed. \n\nThe A494 enters Ruthin by traversing the steep side of the Vale of Clwyd. Beyond the town, it heads south through several small villages. Beside the road for much of the way is the disused Ruthin to Corwen Railway line. The A494, up to this point, often remains congestion-free as a lot of traffic follows the parallel shorter A5104 between the A55 and Corwen around Llantysilio Mountain.\n\nThe A494 meets the A5 trunk road at a T-junction just outside Corwen. It now makes a short concurrency with the A5 to Druid.\n\nThe A494 diverges from the concurrency with the A5 at the road junction at Druid, Denbighshire. It then heads south west for to Dolgellau, Gwynedd. \n\nThis section of the A494 remains single carriageway. It has variable speed limits. North Wales Police regularly conduct traffic operations on this road.\n\nThe A494 enters the Snowdonia National Park just outside the market town of Bala. It then runs adjacent to Bala Lake () for and past Aran Fawddwy. \n\nBeyond the southwest end of the lake, at the summit of the pass at Pant Gwyn, the A494 enters a long steeply graded valley that follows the River Wnion () to Dolgellau. Again a former railway also runs parallel with the road. The remains of the line can be seen in places. \n\nThe A494 terminates at a T-junction with the A470 just outside the market town of Dolgellau beneath Cadair Idris.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1665285", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1665285", "title": "Abiotic component", "text": "Abiotic component\n\nIn biology and ecology, abiotic components or abiotic factors are non-living chemical and physical parts of the environment that affect living organisms and the functioning of ecosystems. Abiotic factors and the phenomena associated with them underpin all biology. \n\nAbiotic components include physical conditions and non-living resources that affect living organisms in terms of growth, maintenance, and reproduction. Resources are distinguished as substances or objects in the environment required by one organism and consumed or otherwise made unavailable for use by other organisms.\n\nComponent degradation of a substance occurs by chemical or physical processes, e.g. hydrolysis. All non-living components of an ecosystem, such as atmospheric conditions and water resources, are called abiotic components.\n\nIn biology, abiotic factors can include water, light, radiation, temperature, humidity, atmosphere, and soil. The macroscopic climate often influences each of the above. Pressure and sound waves may also be considered in the context of marine or sub-terrestrial environments. Abiotic factors in ocean environments also include aerial exposure, substrate, water clarity, solar energy and tides.\nConsider the differences in the mechanics of C3, C4, and CAM plants in regulating the influx of carbon dioxide to the Calvin-Benson Cycle in relation to their abiotic stressors. C3 plants have no mechanisms to manage photorespiration, whereas C4 and CAM plants utilize a separate PEP Carboxylase enzyme to prevent photorespiration, thus increasing the yield of photosynthetic processes in certain high energy environments.\n\nMany Archea require very high temperatures, pressures or unusual concentrations of chemical substances such as sulfur; this is due to their specialization into extreme conditions. In addition, fungi have also evolved to survive at the temperature, the humidity, and stability of their environment.\n\nFor example, there is a significant difference in access in both water and humidity between temperate rain forests and deserts. This difference in water availability causes a diversity in the types of plants and animals that survive in these areas. These differences in abiotic components alter the species present both by creating boundaries of what species can survive within the environment, as well as influencing competition between two species. Abiotic factors such as salinity can give one species a competitive advantage over another, creating pressures that lead to speciation and alteration of a species to and from generalist and specialist competitors.\n\n"}
{"id": "3393153", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3393153", "title": "Administrative divisions of Nepal", "text": "Administrative divisions of Nepal\n\nThe administrative divisions of Nepal (Nepali: नेपालको प्रशासनिक विभाजन \"Nēpālakō praśāsanika vibhājana\") are subnational administrative units of Nepal. The first level of country subdivisions of Nepal are the Provinces. Each province is further subdivided into districts, and each district into municipalities and rural municipalities. Before 2015, instead of provinces, Nepal was divided into developmental regions and administrative zones.\n\nFulfilling the requirement of the new constitution of Nepal in 2015, all old municipalities and villages (which were more than 3900 in number) were restructured into 753 new Municipalities and Villages. The former 75 district development committees (DDC) were also replaced by 77 new District Coordination Committees (DCC) which have much less power than the DDCs. At present there are 6 Metropolitan Cities, 11 Sub-Metropolitan Cities, 276 Municipalities, and 460 Rural Municipalities.\n\nNepal is composed of seven provinces. They are defined by schedule 4 of the new constitution, by grouping together the existing districts. Two districts however are split in two parts ending up in two different provinces.\n\nProvinces of Nepal according to current name, capital cities, area and population\n\nProvinces are further divided into districts, of which there are 77 (as of 2017). Each districts is governed by a District Coordination Committee\n\nMunicipalities are places having at least some minimum criteria of population and infrastructure and declared as a municipality by the government. There are 293 municipalities in Nepal. \n\nUrban municipalities are categorized into 3 levels:\n\nThere are six metropolitan cities: The capital city Kathmandu, as well as Bharatpur, Biratnagar, Pokhara, Lalitpur and Birgunj. There are 11 Sub-metropolitan Cities and 276 Municipalities.\n\nRural municipalities (gaunpalikas) were established in 2017, replacing the village development committees. The main purpose of a gaunpalika resembles that of a village development committee, but it has more rights on collection of royalty and taxes and has a higher annual budget than the VDC. Several VDCs were usually combined into each new gaupalika. There are 460 gaunpalikas in Nepal.\n\nPrior to 10 September 2015, Nepal was divided into five developmental regions and fourteen administrative zones. At the time of the 2001 census, it was further subdivided into seventy-five districts. Districts were divided into village development committees (VDC) and municipalities. In the 2001 census, there were 3,915 VDCs and fifty-eight municipalities. \n\nRegions:\n\n"}
{"id": "23256633", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23256633", "title": "Apia, Tokelau", "text": "Apia, Tokelau\n\nApia, Tokelau is an islet of the Nukunonu island group of Tokelau.\n"}
{"id": "26096593", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26096593", "title": "Ary-Mas", "text": "Ary-Mas\n\nAry-Mas () is a forest in Russia, Krasnoyarsk Krai, southern part of Taymyr Peninsula, southern bank of Novaya River. Ary-Mas comes from the Dolgan language and means \"forest island\".\n\nConsidered to be the northernmost forest of the world although Lukunsky grove to the east from it extends 6 kilometres further north. Though, while Lukunsky grove is northernmost rim of larger forest massif, Ary-Mas is a forest island separated from the nearest forest by approximately 200 kilometres wide zone of tundra.\n\nVegetation period is approximately 100 days long. Winter here lasts from late September to early October to June, minimum temperatures often fall below -35 – -45 °C, wind speed in winter often exceeds 50 m/s.\n\nPolar day lasts from the late June to early August, median temperature in July is 12 °C, often up to 30 °C.\n\nPermafrost in summer thaws 0.3 – 2 metres deep. Thickness of permafrost here is approximately 200 metres.\n\nThe only tree-form species of Ary-Mas is Dahurian larch (\"Larix gmelinii\" (Rupr.) Rupr.)), but in total in Ary-Mas there have been found 306 species of plants, 90 species of birds, 20 species of mammals.\n\nDahurian larch grows sparsely, separate trees grow up to 5 – 7 metres tall.\n\nAry-Mas is a protected territory with area 156,11 km2. It forms a part of Taymyr State Nature Biosphere Reserve and is protected since 1979.\n\nConstant investigations of Dahurian larch started in 1969 and have continued since then. Current scientific studies are led by the Taymyr State Nature Biosphere Reserve and major part of results are compiled in yearly nature reports.\n\n"}
{"id": "2170067", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170067", "title": "Barr Creek Falls", "text": "Barr Creek Falls\n\nBarr Creek Falls, is a waterfall located in the Rogue River Canyon within the Prospect State Scenic Viewpoint in Jackson County, in the U.S. state of Oregon. The waterfall is located at the south end of Barr Creek as it plunges into the Rogue River over a carved cliff surrounded by walls of petrified volcanic ash as a consequence of the Mount Mazama eruption. The waterfall has also been called Bear Creek Falls. The waterfall gets its name from the creek which was called \"Barr\" for the presence of a fence that prevented cattle from straying out of the local Red Blanket Ranch and that ran adjacent to the creek.\n\nBarr Creek Falls shares the same rock cliff with Mill Creek Falls. Both waterfalls can be seen next to each other from their respective viewpoints. \n\nThe fall drops in three major steps. First plummets 60-feet, which is not a visible section of the cascade from the trail viewpoint. The second tier drops down another 30 feet, which is half visible from the viewpoint during high water flow. Finally it plummets 150 feet to the canyon floor before meeting with the Rogue River. With a height of 240 feet, Barr Creek Falls is among the tallest waterfalls in Oregon.\n\nBarr Creek Falls is located at the southernmost tip of the Prospect State Scenic Viewpoint. The United States Geological Survey (USGS) places the falls at coordinates at an elevation of above sea level. Barr Creek runs from the Western skirt of Crater Lake, bisects the southern end of the Prospect Airfield and plummets down the Rogue River Canyon a few yards before intersecting the Rogue River.\n\nAccess to the waterfall is from a trail that starts on the park's parking lot on the town of Prospect's Mill Creek Drive, the southernmost of two parking lots on the road. The trail-head has an illustrative map of the area including the trail to the Avenue of Boulders and Barr Creek Falls. The trail is approximately half a mile from the parking lot to Barr Creek Falls viewpoint.\n\n"}
{"id": "424634", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=424634", "title": "Bedout", "text": "Bedout\n\nBedout , or more specifically the Bedout High, is a geological and geophysical feature centered about 250 km off the northwestern coast of Australia in the Canning and overlying Roebuck basins. Although not obvious from sea floor topography, it is a roughly circular area about 30 km in diameter where older rocks have been uplifted as much as 4 km towards the surface. The Bedout High was penetrated by two petroleum exploration wells (Bedout-1, Lagrange-1) in the 1970s and 1980s. It is named after nearby Bedout Island.\n\nIn 1996 Australian geologist John Gorter first suggested that the Bedout High might mark the centre of a very large buried impact crater up to 250 km in diameter, based mainly on its internal geological structure as revealed on a single seismic survey line, and suggested that it may be of near end Permian age, based on the reported age of volcanic rocks in Lagrange-1. The impact hypothesis was developed further by Luanne Becker (University of California) and coworkers who claimed to have confirmed that the supposed volcanic rocks in the petroleum wells are actually impact melt breccia showing evidence of shock metamorphism, and re-dated these rocks at 250.1 ± 4.5 Ma. The new age is essentially coincident with the Permian-Triassic boundary and associated extinction event, and Becker speculates that there is a likely connection. It was subsequently reported, based on very limited preliminary data, that the impact hypothesis is further supported by chromium isotope evidence for the presence of extraterrestrial material.\n\nThe Bedout impact hypothesis has not been widely supported by impact cratering specialists. Specific counter claims include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41355705", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41355705", "title": "Browns Mountain", "text": "Browns Mountain\n\nBrowns Mountain, also sometimes spelt Brown's Mountain, is a small submarine mountain – a seamount – lying in the south-western Pacific Ocean 38 km off the coast of New South Wales, Australia, about 50 km east of the city of Sydney. The waters around the seamount are about 600 m in depth, while the mountain itself rises some 133 m above the sea floor. It is a popular site for commercial and recreational fishing.\n\nIt got its name from Ernie Brown, the popular local Sydney fisherman who discovered it.\n"}
{"id": "58473374", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58473374", "title": "Charles Brown's saw mill", "text": "Charles Brown's saw mill\n\nCharles Brown's saw mill was the first saw mill in San Mateo County, California. It was built in 1847, in the style as Sutter's Mill at Coloma, California.\n"}
{"id": "9241097", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9241097", "title": "Colonial Secretary of Tasmania", "text": "Colonial Secretary of Tasmania\n\nThe Colonial Secretary of Van Diemen's Land (later Colonial Secretary of Tasmania) was the representative of the British Colonial Office in Van Diemen's Land (later Tasmania), and was usually appointed from Britain.\nIn 1884, the role was renamed Chief Secretary.\n\nThe following is an incomplete list of Colonial Secretaries of Van Diemen's Land/Tasmania:\n"}
{"id": "2293510", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293510", "title": "Development regions of Romania", "text": "Development regions of Romania\n\nThe development regions of Romania (Romanian \"Regiunile de dezvoltare ale României\") refer to the eight regional divisions created in Romania in 1998 in order to better co-ordinate regional development as Romania progressed towards accession to the European Union. The development regions correspond to NUTS II-level divisions in European Union member states. Despite becoming increasingly significant in regional development projects, Romania's development regions do not actually have an administrative status and do not have a legislative or executive council or government. Rather, they serve a function for allocating European Union PHARE funds for regional development, as well as for collection of regional statistics. They also co-ordinate a range of regional development projects and became members of the Committee of the Regions when Romania joined the EU on January 1, 2007.\n\nThere are 8 development regions in Romania, which (with the exception of București-Ilfov) are named by their geographical position in the country:\n\n"}
{"id": "4848945", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4848945", "title": "Enclave and exclave", "text": "Enclave and exclave\n\nAn enclave is a territory, or a part of a territory, that is entirely surrounded by the territory of one other state. Territorial waters have the same sovereign attributes as land, and enclaves may therefore exist within territorial waters.\n\nAn exclave is a portion of a state or territory geographically separated from the main part by surrounding alien territory (of one or more states). Many exclaves are also enclaves. \"Enclave\" is sometimes used improperly to denote a territory that is only partly surrounded by another state. Vatican City and San Marino, enclaved by Italy, and Lesotho, enclaved by South Africa, are the only completely enclaved states. Unlike an enclave, an exclave can be surrounded by several states. The Azerbaijani exclave of Nakhchivan is an example of an exclave.\n\nSemi-enclaves and semi-exclaves are areas that, except for possessing an unsurrounded sea border (a coastline contiguous with international waters), would otherwise be enclaves or exclaves. Enclaves and semi-enclaves can exist as independent states (Monaco, Gambia and Brunei are semi-enclaves), while exclaves always constitute just a part of a sovereign state (like the Kaliningrad Oblast).\n\nA pene-enclave is a part of the territory of one country that can be conveniently approached—in particular, by wheeled traffic—only through the territory of another country. Pene-enclaves are also called functional enclaves or practical enclaves. Many pene-exclaves partially border their own territorial waters (i.e., they are not surrounded by other nations' territorial waters), such as Point Roberts, Washington. A pene-enclave can also exist entirely on land, such as when intervening mountains render a territory inaccessible from other parts of a country except through alien territory. A commonly cited example is the Kleinwalsertal, a valley part of Vorarlberg, Austria, that is accessible only from Germany to the north.\n\nThe word \"enclave\" is French and first appeared in the mid-15th century as a derivative of the verb \"enclaver\" (1283), from the colloquial Latin \"inclavare\" (to close with a key). Originally, it was a term of property law that denoted the situation of a land or parcel of land surrounded by land owned by a different owner, and that could not be reached for its exploitation in a practical and sufficient manner without crossing the surrounding land. In law, this created a \"servitude\" of passage for the benefit of the owner of the surrounded land. The first diplomatic document to contain the word \"enclave\" was the Treaty of Madrid, signed in 1526.\n\nLater, the term enclave began to be used also to refer to parcels of countries, counties, fiefs, communes, towns, parishes, etc. that were surrounded by alien territory. This French word eventually entered the English and other languages to denote the same concept, although local terms have continued to be used. In India, the word \"pocket\" is often used as a synonym for enclave (such as \"the pockets of Puducherry district\"). In British administrative history, subnational enclaves were usually called detachments or detached parts, and national enclaves as detached districts or detached dominions. In English ecclesiastic history, subnational enclaves were known as peculiars (see also Royal Peculiar).\n\nThe word \"exclave\", modeled on enclave, is a logically extended back-formation of \"enclave\".\n\nEnclaves exist for a variety of historical, political and geographical reasons. For example, in the feudal system in Europe, the ownership of feudal domains was often transferred or partitioned, either through purchase and sale or through inheritance, and often such domains were or came to be surrounded by other domains. In particular, this state of affairs persisted into the 19th century in the Holy Roman Empire, and these domains (principalities, etc.) exhibited many of the characteristics of sovereign states. Prior to 1866 Prussia alone consisted of more than 270 discontiguous pieces of territory.\n\nResiding in an enclave within another country has often involved difficulties in such areas as passage rights, importing goods, currency, provision of utilities and health services, and host nation cooperation. Thus, over time, enclaves have tended to be eliminated. For example, two-thirds of the then-existing national-level enclaves were extinguished on August 1, 2015, when the governments of India and Bangladesh implemented a Land Boundary Agreement that exchanged 162 first-order enclaves (111 Indian and 51 Bangladeshi). This exchange thus effectively de-enclaved another two dozen second-order enclaves and one third-order enclave, eliminating 197 of the Indo-Bangladesh enclaves in all. The residents in these enclaves had complained of being effectively stateless. Only Bangladesh's Dahagram–Angarpota enclave remained.\n\nFor illustration, in the figure (above), A1 is a semi-enclave (attached to C and also bounded by water that only touches C's territorial water). Although A2 is an exclave of A, it cannot be classed as an enclave because it shares borders with B and C. The territory A3 is both an exclave of A and an enclave from the viewpoint of B. The singular territory D, although an enclave, is not an exclave.\n\nAn enclave is a part of the territory of a state that is enclosed within the territory of another state. To distinguish the parts of a state entirely enclosed in a single other state, they are called true enclaves. A true enclave cannot be reached without passing through the territory of a single other state that surrounds it. \"Vinokurov (2007)\" calls this the restrictive definition of \"enclave\" given by international law, which thus \"comprises only so-called 'true enclaves'\". Two examples are Büsingen am Hochrhein, a true enclave of Germany, and Campione d'Italia, a true enclave of Italy, both of which are surrounded by Switzerland.\n\nThe definition of a territory comprises both land territory and territorial waters. In the case of enclaves in territorial waters, they are called maritime (those surrounded by territorial sea) or lacustrine (if in a lake) enclaves. Most of the true national-level enclaves now existing are in Asia and Europe. While subnational enclaves are numerous the world over, there are only a few national-level true enclaves in Africa, Australia and the Americas (each such enclave being surrounded by the territorial waters of another country).\n\nAn historical example is West Berlin before the reunification of Germany. Since 1945, all of Berlin was ruled \"de jure\" by the four Allied powers. However, the East German government and the Soviet Union treated East Berlin as an integral part of East Germany, so West Berlin was a \"de facto\" enclave within East Germany. Also, 12 small West Berlin enclaves, such as Steinstücken, were separated from the city, some by only a few meters.\n\nThree nations qualify, as completely surrounded by another country's land and/or internal waters: \n\nHistorically, four Bantustans (or \"Black homelands\") of South Africa were granted nominal independence, unrecognized internationally, by the Apartheidist government from 1976 until their reabsorption in 1994. Others remained under government rule from 1948 to 1994. Being heavily partitioned, various parts of these Bantustans were true enclaves.\n\nThe United States' constitutional principle of tribal sovereignty treats federally-recognized Indian reservations as quasi-independent enclaves.\n\nTo establish jurisdiction, the Scottish Court in the Netherlands, at Camp Zeist near Utrecht, was temporarily declared as sovereign territory of the United Kingdom under Scots law for the duration of the trial of those accused in the Lockerbie bombing, and was therefore an exclave of the United Kingdom and of Scotland, and an enclave within the Netherlands. This was also so during the appeal against the conviction. The court was first convened in 1999, and the land returned to the Netherlands in 2002.\n\n\"True exclave\" is an extension of the concept of \"true enclave\". In order to access a true exclave from the mainland, a traveller must go through the territory of at least one other state. Examples include:\n\nSemi-enclaves and semi-exclaves are areas that, except for possessing an unsurrounded sea border, would otherwise be enclaves or exclaves. Semi-enclaves can exist as independent states that border only one other state, such as Monaco, the Gambia and Brunei. \"Vinokurov (2007)\" declares, \"Technically, Portugal, Denmark, and Canada also border only one foreign state, but they are not enclosed in the geographical, political, or economic sense. They have vast access to international waters. At the same time, there are states that, although in possession of sea access, are still enclosed by the territories of a foreign state.\" Therefore, a quantitative principle applies: \"the land boundary must be longer than the coastline.\" Thus a state is classified as a \"sovereign semi-enclave\" if it borders on just one state, and its land boundary is longer than its sea coastline.\n\nVinokurov affirms that \"no similar quantitative criterion is needed to define the scope of non-sovereign semi-enclaves/exclaves.\" Examples include:\n\n\nSometimes, administrative divisions of a country, for historical or practical reasons, caused some areas to belong to one division while being attached to another.\n\n\nThe term -exclave was defined in \"Robinson (1959)\" as \"parts of the territory of one country that can be approached conveniently – in particular by wheeled traffic – only through the territory of another country.\" Thus, a \"pene-exclave\", although having land borders, is not completely surrounded by the other's land or territorial waters. \"Catudal (1974)\" and \"Vinokurov (2007)\" further elaborate upon examples, including Point Roberts. \"Although physical connections by water with Point Roberts are entirely within the sovereignty of the United States, land access is only possible through Canada.\"\n\nPene-enclaves are also called functional enclaves or practical enclaves. They can exhibit continuity of state territory across territorial waters but, nevertheless, a discontinuity on land, such as in the case of Point Roberts. Along rivers that change course, pene-enclaves can be observed as complexes comprising many small pene-enclaves. A pene-enclave can also exist entirely on land, such as when intervening mountains render a territory, although geographically attached, inaccessible from other parts of a country except through alien territory. A commonly cited example is the Kleinwalsertal, a valley part of Vorarlberg, Austria, that is only accessible from Germany to the north, being separated from the rest of Austria by high mountains traversed by no roads. Another example is the Spanish village of Os de Civís, accessible from Andorra.\n\nHence, such areas are enclaves or exclaves \"for practical purposes\", without meeting the strict definition. Many pene-exclaves partially border the sea or another body of water, which comprises their own territorial waters (i.e., they are not surrounded by other nations' territorial waters). They border their own territorial waters in addition to a land border with another country, and hence they are not true exclaves. Still, one cannot travel to them on land without going through another country. Attribution of a pene-enclave status to a territory can sometimes be disputed, depending on whether the territory is considered to be practically inaccessible from the mainland or not.\n\n\n\nIt is possible for an enclave of one country to be completely surrounded by a part of another country that is itself an enclave of the first country. These enclaves are sometimes called \"counter-enclaves\".\n\nAn ethnic enclave is a community of an ethnic group inside an area in which another ethnic group predominates. Ghettos, Little Italys, barrios and Chinatowns are examples. These areas may have a separate language, culture and economic system.\n\nDiplomatic missions, such as embassies and consulates, as well as military bases, are usually exempted from the jurisdiction of the host country, i.e., the laws of the host nation in which an embassy is located do not typically apply to the land of the embassy or base itself. This exemption from the jurisdiction of the host country is defined as extraterritoriality. Areas and buildings enjoying some forms of extraterritoriality are not true enclaves since, in all cases, the host country retains full sovereignty. In addition to embassies, some other areas enjoy a limited form of extraterritoriality.\n\nExamples of this include:\n\nOne or more parcels/holdings of land in most countries is owned by other countries. Most instances are exempt from taxes. In the special case of embassies/consulates these enjoy special privileges driven by international consensus particularly the mutual wish to ensure free diplomatic missions, such as being exempt from major hindrances and host-country arrests in ordinary times on the premises. Most non-embassy lands in such ownership are also not enclaves as fall legally short of \"extraterritoriality\", they are subject to alike court jurisdiction as before their grant/sale in most matters. Nonetheless, for a person's offence against the property itself, equally valid jurisdiction in criminal matters is more likely than elsewhere, assuming the perpetrator is found in the prosecuting authority's homeland. Devoid of permanent residents, formally defined new sovereignty is not warranted or asserted in the examples below. Nonetheless, minor laws, especially on flag flying, are sometimes relaxed to accommodate the needs of the accommodated nation's monument.\n\nEmbassies enjoy many different legal statuses approaching quasi-sovereignty, depending on the agreements reached and in practice upheld from time-to-time by host nations. Subject to hosts adhering to basic due process of international law, including giving warnings, the enforced reduction of scope of a foreign embassy has always been a possibility, even to the point of expelling the foreign embassy entirely, usually on a breakdown of relations, in reaction to extreme actions such as espionage, or as another form of sanction. The same seems to be possible in profit-driven moving or drilling under any of the sites below, providing safeguards as the structure or a new replacement site. The same possible curtailments and alterations never apply to proper exclaves.\n\nExamples of such land other than for diplomatic missions are:\n\n\nChanges in borders can make a railway that was previously located solely within a country traverse the new borders. Since diverting a railway is expensive, this arrangement may last a long time. This may mean that doors on passenger trains are locked and guarded to prevent illicit entry and exit while the train is temporarily in another country. Borders can also be in the \"wrong\" place, forcing railways into difficult terrain.\n\nExamples include:\n\nCurrent\n\nHistoric\n\nProposals\n\n\n\n\nThis arrangement is less common as highways are more easily re-aligned. Examples include:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nLists:\n\n"}
{"id": "13192836", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13192836", "title": "Fountaineer", "text": "Fountaineer\n\nFountaineer is a portmanteau of \"Fountain\" and \"Engineer\" - Hydraulic engineer.\n\nFountaineer (band) are an indie-rock band from Bendigo, Australia.\n\nFountaineer describes one who designs, explores, or is passionate about fountains and their design, operation, and use.\n\nNotable fountaineers include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21056320", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21056320", "title": "Geology of New Zealand", "text": "Geology of New Zealand\n\nThe geology of New Zealand is noted for its volcanic activity, earthquakes and geothermal areas because of its position on the boundary of the Australian Plate and Pacific Plates. New Zealand is part of Zealandia, a microcontinent nearly half the size of Australia that broke away from the Gondwanan supercontinent about 83 million years ago. New Zealands early separation from other landmasses and subsequant evolution has created a unquie fossil record and modern ecology.\n\nNew Zealand's geology can be simplified into three phases. First the basement rocks of New Zealand formed. These rocks were once part of the super-continent of Gondwana, along with South America, Africa, Madagascar, India, Antarctica and Australia. The rocks that now form the, mostly submerged, continent of Zealandia were then nestled between Eastern Australia and Western Antarctica. Secondly New Zealand drifted away from Gondwana and many sedimentary basins formed, which later became the sedimentary rocks covering the geological basement. The final phase is represented by the uplift of the Southern Alps and the eruptions of the Taupo Volcanic Zone. \n\nNew Zealand's basement rocks range in age from mid-Cambrian in north-west Nelson to Cretaceous near Kaikoura. These rocks were formed in a marine environment before New Zealand separated from Gondwana. They are divided into the \"Western Province\", consisting mainly of greywacke, granite and gneiss, and an \"Eastern Province\", consisting mainly of greywacke and schist. The provinces are further divided into terranes – large slices of crust with different geological histories that have been brought together by tectonic activity (subduction and strike-slip faulting) to form New Zealand.\n\nThe Western Province is older than the Eastern Province and outcrops along the west coast of the South Island from Nelson to Fiordland. The Western Province is divided into the Buller and Takaka terranes which formed in mid-Cambrian to Devonian time (510–400 Ma). This includes New Zealand's oldest rocks, trilobite containing greywacke, which are found in the Cobb Valley in north-west Nelson.\n\nLarge sections of the of Western Province have been intruded by plutonic rocks or metamorphosed to gneiss. These plutonic basement rocks are subdivided into the Hohonu, Karamea, Median and Paparoa batholiths. These rocks form the foundations beneath offshore Taranaki, and much of the West Coast, Buller, north-west Nelson, Fiordland and Stewart Island. Most of these plutonic rocks were formed in Devonian-Carboniferous time (380–335 Ma) and Jurassic-Cretaceous time (155–100 Ma). The Median Batholith represents a long-lived batholith dividing the Western and Eastern Provinces. Before Zealandia's separation from Gondwana it stretched from Queensland, through what is now New Zealand, into West Antarctica. It marks the site of a former subduction zone on the edge of Gondwana.\n\nThe Eastern Province underlies more of New Zealand than the Western Province, including the greywacke and schist of the Southern Alps and all of the basement rocks of the North Island. The Eastern Province contains seven main terranes, the Drumduan, Brook Street, Murihiku, Dun Mountain-Maitai, Caples, Torlesse Composite (Rakaia, Aspiring and Pahau terranes) and Waipapa Composite (Morrinsville and Hunua Terranes). They are mostly composed of greywacke together with argillite, except for the Brook Street and Dun Mountain-Maitai Terranes which have significant igneous components (see Dun Mountain Ophiolite Belt). New Zealand's greywacke is mostly from the Caples, Torlesse Composite (Rakaia and Pahau) and Waipapa Composite (Morrinsville and Hunua) terranes formed in Carboniferous-Cretaceous time (330–120 Ma). Much of these rocks were deposited as submarine fans. They have different origins, as shown by different chemical compositions and different fossils. In general, the sedimentary basement terranes become younger from West to East across the country, as the newer terranes were scraped off the subducting paleo-Pacific Plate, and accreted to the boundary of Gondwana over hundreds of millions of years.\n\nMany rocks in the Eastern Province have been metamorphosed into the Haast Schist, due to exposure to high pressures and temperatures. Rocks grade continuously from greywacke (e.g., in Canterbury) to high-grade schist (e.g., around the Caples-Torlesse boundary in Otago and Marlborough, and Torlesse rocks just to the East of the Alpine Fault). The Alpine Fault that corresponds to the line of the Southern Alps has separated the basement rocks that used to be adjacent by about 480 km.\n\nThe Australia-New Zealand continental fragment of Gondwana split from the rest of Gondwana in the late Cretaceous time (95–90 Ma). Then around 83 Ma, Zealandia started to separate from Australia forming the Tasman Sea, initially separating from the south. By 75 Ma, Zealandia was essentially separate from Australia and Antarctica, although only shallow seas might have separated Zealandia and Australia in the north. Dinosaurs continued to live in New Zealand after it separated from Gondwana, as shown by sauropod footprints from 70 million years ago in Nelson. During the Cretaceous extension large normal faults formed throughout New Zealand. this meant that dinosaurs had about 20 million years to evolve unique New Zealand species. The Hawks Crag Breccia formed next to their scarps and it has become New Zealand's best uranium mineral deposit.\n\nCurrently, New Zealand has no native snakes or land mammals (other than bats). Both marsupials and placental mammals did not evolve and reach Australia in time to be on New Zealand when it drifted away 85 million years ago. The evolution and dispersal of snakes is less certain, but there is no hard evidence of them being in Australia before the opening of the Tasman Sea. The multituberculates, another type of mammal which is now extinct, may have been in time to cross the land bridge to New Zealand. \n\nThe landmasses continued to separate until early Eocene times (53 Ma). The Tasman Sea, and part of Zealandia then locked together with Australia to form the Australian Plate (40 Ma), and a new plate boundary was created between the Australian Plate and Pacific Plate. Zealandia ended up at a pivot point between the Pacific and Australian Plates, with spreading in the south, and convergence in the north, where the Pacific Plate was subducted beneath the Australian Plate. A precursor to the Kermadec Arc was created. The convergent part of the plate boundary propagated through Zealandia from the north, eventually forming a proto-Alpine Fault in Miocene times (23 Ma). The various ridges and basins north of New Zealand relate to previous positions of the plate boundary.\n\nErosion and deposition has lead to much of Zealandia now being covered in sedimentary rocks that formed in swamps and marine sedimentary basins. Much of New Zealand was low lying around Mid Eocene-Oligocene times (40–23 Ma). Swamps became widespread, forming coal. The land subsided further, and marine organisms produced limestone deposits. Limestone of Oligocene-Early Miocene age formed in many areas, including the King Country, known for the Waitomo Glowworm Cave. In the South Island, limestone is present in Buller, Nelson, and the West Coast, including the Pancake Rocks at Punakaiki in Oligocene-Early Miocene times (34–15 Ma). It is debated whether all of New Zealand was submerged at this time or if small islands remained as \"arcs\" preserving fauna and flora.\n\nAn allochthon is land that formed elsewhere and slid on top of other land (in other words, the material of an enormous landslide). Much of the land of Northland and East Cape were created in this manner. Around 25–22 Ma, Northland and East Cape were adjacent, with East Cape near Whangarei. Northland-East Cape was an undersea basin. Much of the land that now forms Northland-East Cape was higher land to the Northeast (composed of rocks formed 90–25 Ma). The Pacific-Australian plate boundary was further to the Northeast, with the Pacific Plate subducting under the Australian Plate. Layers of rocks were peeled off the higher land, from the top down, and slid Southwest under the influence of gravity, to be stacked the right way up, but in reverse order. Most of the material to slide were sedimentary rocks, however, the last rocks to be slid across were slabs of oceanic crust (ophiolites), mainly basalt. Widespread volcanic activity also occurred (23–15 Ma), and is intermixed with the foreign rocks. Sedimentary basins formed on the allochthons while they were moving. East Cape was later separated from Northland and moved further south and east to its present position.\n\nVolcanism is recorded in New Zealand throughout its whole geological history. Most volcanism in New Zealand, both modern and ancient, has been caused by the subduction of one tectonic plate under another, this causes melting in the mantle, the layer of the earth below the crust. This produces a volcanic arc, composed of mainly basalt, andesitic and rhyolitic. Basaltic eruptions tend to be fairly placid, producing scoria cones and lava flows, such as the volcanic cones in the Auckland volcanic field, although Mount Tarawera's violent 1886 eruption was an exception. Andesitic eruptions tend to form steep stratovolcanoes, including mountains such as Ruapehu, Tongariro and Taranaki, islands such as Little Barrier, White and Raoul Islands, or submarine seamounts like Monowai Seamount. Rhyolitic eruptions with large amounts of water tend to cause violent eruptions, producing calderas, such as Lake Taupo and Lake Rotorua. New Zealand also has many volcanoes which are not clearly related to plate subduction including the extinct Dunedin Volcano and Banks Peninsula, and the dormant Auckland Volcanic Field.\n\nThe South Island has no currently active volcanoes. However, in the late Cretaceous (100–65 Ma), there was widespread volcanic activity in Marlborough, West Coast, Canterbury and Otago; and in Eocene times (40 Ma), there was volcanic activity in Oamaru. The most well known Miocene volcanic centres are the intra-plate Dunedin Volcano and Banks Peninsulas. The Dunedin Volcano which later eroded to form Otago Peninsula near Dunedin was built up by a series of mainly basaltic intra-plate volcanic eruptions in Miocene times (16–10 Ma). Banks Peninsula near Christchurch was built from two mainly basaltic intra-plate volcanoes in Miocene times (12–6 Ma and 9.5–7.5 Ma), corresponding to the Lyttelton and Akaroa Harbours. Southland's Solander Islands were active around 1 to 2 million years ago. There are also minor volcanic from a similar time period throughout Canterbury, Otago and also on the Chatham Islands. \n\nIntra-plate basaltic volcanic eruptions also occurred in the North Island, near the Bay of Islands in Northland, in the Late Miocene (10 Mya), and again more recently (0.5 Mya). The South Auckland volcanic field was active in Pleistocene times (1.5–0.5 Ma). The Auckland volcanic field started erupting around 250,000 years ago. It includes around 50 distinct eruptions, with most of the prominent cones formed in the last 30,000 years, and the most recent eruption, which formed Rangitoto Island, around 600 years ago. The field is currently dormant and further eruptions are expected. Over time the volcanic field has slowly been drifting northwards.\n\nVolcanism in the North Island has been dominated by a series of volcanic arcs which have evolved into the still active Taupo Volcanic Zone. Over time, volcanic activity has moved south and east, as the plate boundary moved eastward. This started in Miocene times (23 Ma) when a volcanic arc became active to the west of Northland, and gradually moved South down to New Plymouth, where Taranaki is still active. It produced mainly andesitic strato-volcanoes. The Northland volcanoes include the volcanoes that produced the Waipoua Plateau (site of Waipoua Forest, with large Kauri trees) and Kaipara volcano. The Waitakere volcano (22–16 Ma) has mainly been eroded, but conglomerate from the volcano forms the Waitakere Ranges, and produced most of the material that makes up the Waitemata sandstones and mudstones. Lahars produced the coarser Parnell Grit. Notable visible volcanoes in the Waikato include Karioi and Pirongia (2.5 Ma). The volcanoes off the West coast of the North Island, together with Taranaki and the Tongariro Volcanic Centre, are responsible for the black iron sand on many of the beaches between Taranaki and Auckland.\n\nShortly after (18 Ma), a volcanic arc developed further east to create the Coromandel Ranges and undersea Colville Ridge. The initial activity was andesitic but later became rhyolitic (12 Ma). In the Kauaeranga Valley, volcanic plugs remain, as does a lava lake that now forms the top of Table Mountain. Active geothermal systems, similar to those that now exist near Rotorua, were present around 6 Ma, and produced the gold and silver deposits that were later mined in the Coromandel gold rush. Later (5–2 Ma), volcanic activity moved further south to form the Kaimai Range.\n\nAfter this, activity shifted further East to the Taupo Volcanic Zone, which runs from the Tongariro Volcanic Centre (Ruapehu and Tongariro), through Taupo, Rotorua, and out to sea to form the Kermadec Ridge. Activity was initiated around 2 Ma, and continues to this day. The Tongariro Volcanic Centre is composed of andesitic volcanoes, while the areas around Taupo and Rotorua are largely rhyolitic with minor basalt. Early eruptions between Taupo and Rotorua around 1.25 Ma, and 1 Ma, were large enough to produce an ignimbrite sheet that reached Auckland, Napier, and Gisborne. This includes vast pumice deposits generated from eruptions in the Taupo Volcanic Zone occur throughout the central North Island, Bay of Plenty, Waikato, King Country and Wanganui regions. Every so often, there are swarms of earthquakes within an area of the Taupo Volcanic Zone, which last for years. These earthquake swarms indicate that some movement of magma is occurring below the surface. While they have not resulted in an eruption in recent times, there is always the potential for a new volcano to be created, or a dormant volcano to come to life.\n\nThe Tongariro Volcanic Centre developed over the last 275,000 years and contains the active andesitic volcanic cones of Ruapehu, Tongariro, and Ngauruhoe (really a side cone of Tongariro). Ruapehu erupts about once a decade, and while the eruptions cause havoc for skiers, plane flights and hydroelectric dams, the eruptions are relatively minor. However, the sudden collapse of the crater wall caused major problems when it generated a lahar in 1953, that destroyed a rail bridge, and caused 151 deaths at Tangiwai. The last significant eruption was 1995–96. Ngauruhoe last erupted 1973–75. Taranaki is a perfectly formed andesitic strato-volcano, that last erupted in 1755.\n\nLake Taupo, the largest lake in the North Island, is a volcanic caldera, responsible for rhyolitic eruptions about once every 1,000 years. The largest eruption in the last 65,000 years was the cataclysmic Oruanui Eruption 26,500 years ago, producing 530 cubic kilometres of magma. The most recent eruption, around 233 AD was also a major event, the biggest eruption worldwide in the last 5,000 years. The eruption caused a pyroclastic flow that devastated the land from Waiouru to Rotorua in 10 minutes.\n\nThe Okataina volcanic centre, to the East of Rotorua, is also responsible for major cataclysmic rhyolitic eruptions. The last eruption, of Tarawera and Lake Rotomahana in 1886, was a relatively minor eruption, which was thought to have destroyed the famous Pink and White Terraces, and covered much of the surrounding countryside in ash, killing over 100 people. In 2017 researchers rediscovered the locations of the Pink and White Terraces using a forgotten survey from 1859. Many lakes around Rotorua are calderas from rhyolitic eruptions. For example, Lake Rotorua erupted around 13,500 years ago.\n\nA line of undersea volcanoes extends out along the Kermadec Ridge. White Island, in the Bay of Plenty, represents the southern end of this chain and is a very active andesitic volcano, erupting with great frequency. It has the potential to cause a tsunami in the Bay of Plenty, as does the dormant Mayor Island volcano.\n\nThe Taupo Volcanic Zone is known for its geothermal activity. For example, Rotorua and the surrounding area have many areas with geysers, silica terraces, fumaroles, mud-pools, hot springs, etc. Notable geothermal areas include Whakarewarewa, Tikitere, Waimangu, Waiotapu, Craters of the Moon and Orakei Korako. Geothermal energy is used to generate electricity at Wairakei, near Taupo. Hot pools abound throughout New Zealand. Geothermal energy is used to generate electricity in the Taupo Volcanic Zone.\n\nNew Zealand is currently astride the convergent boundary between the Pacific and Australian Plates. Over time, the relative motion of the plates has altered and the current configuration is geologically recent. Currently the Pacific Plate is subducted beneath the Australian Plate from around Tonga in the north, through the Tonga Trench, Kermadec Trench, and Hikurangi Trough to the east of the North Island of New Zealand, down to Cook Strait. Through most of the South Island, the plates slide past each other (Alpine Fault), with slight obduction of the Pacific Plate over the Australian Plate, forming Southern Alps. From Fiordland south, the Australian Plate subducts under the Pacific Plate forming the Puysegur Trench. This configuration has lead to volcanism and extension in the North Island forming the Taupo Volcanic Zone and uplift in the South Island forming the Southern Alps. \n\nThe Pacific Plate is colliding with the Australian Plate at a rate of about 40 mm/yr. The East coast of the North Island is being compressed and lifted by this collision, producing the North Island and Marlborough Fault Systems. The East Coast of the North Island is also rotating clockwise, relative to Northland, Auckland and Taranaki, stretching the Bay of Plenty, and producing the Hauraki Rift (Hauraki Plains and Hauraki Gulf) and Taupo Volcanic Zone. The East Coast of the South Island is sliding obliquely towards the Alpine Fault, relative to Westland, causing the Southern Alps to rise about 10 mm/yr (although they are also worn down at a similar rate). The Hauraki Plains, Hamilton, Bay of Plenty, Marlborough Sounds, and Christchurch are sinking. The Marlborough Sounds are known for their sunken mountain ranges. As Wellington rises, and Marlborough sinks, Cook Strait is being shifted further south. \n\nGreat stress is built up in the earth's crust due to the constant movement of the tectonic plates. This stress is released by earthquakes, which can occur on the plate boundary or on any of thousands of smaller faults throughout New Zealand. Because the Pacific Plate is subducting under the eastern side of the North Island, there are frequent deep earthquakes east of a line from the Bay of Plenty to Nelson (the approximate edge of the subducted plate), with the earthquakes being deeper to the west, and shallower to the east. Because the Australian Plate is subducting under the Pacific Plate in Fiordland, there are frequent deep earthquakes near Fiordland, with the earthquakes being deeper to the east and shallower near the west. \n\nShallow earthquakes are more widespread, occurring almost everywhere throughout New Zealand (especially the Bay of Plenty, East Cape to Marlborough, and Alpine Fault). However, Northland, Waikato, and Otago are relatively stable. Canterbury had been without a major earthquake in recorded history until the 7.1 Canterbury earthquake on 4 September 2010. The volcanic activity in the central North island also creates many shallow earthquakes.\n\nSince Zealandia separated from Gondwana (80 mya) in the Cretaceous the climate has typically been far warmer than today. However, since the Quaternary glaciation (2.9 mya) Zealandia has experienced climate either cooler or only slightly warmer than today. \n\nIn the Cretaceous, New Zealand was positioned at 80 degrees south at the boundary between Antarctica and Australia. But it was covered in trees as the climate of 90 million years ago was much warmer and wetter than today. During the warm Eocene Period vast swamps covered New Zealand which became coal seams in Southland and Waikato. In the Miocene there are paleontological records of warm lakes in Central Otago with palm trees and small land mammals. \n\nOver the past 30,000 years three major climate events are recorded in New Zealand, the last glacial maximum's coldest period from 28-18,000 years ago, a transitional period from 18-11,000 years ago and the Holocene Inter Glacial which has been occurring for the past 11,000 years. Throughout the last glacial maximum, global sea levels were about lower than present levels. When this happened the North Island, South Island, and Stewart Island were joined together. Temperatures dropped by about 4–5 °C. Much of the Southern Alps and Fiordland were glaciated, but the rest of New Zealand was largely ice-free. The land to the North of Hamilton was forested, but much of the rest of New Zealand was covered in grass or shrubs, due to the cold and dry climate. This lack of vegetation cover lead to greater wind erosion and the deposition of loess (windblown dust).\nThe study of New Zealand's paleoclimate has settled some of the debate regarding links between the Little Ice Age (LIA) in the Northern Hemisphere and the climate in New Zealand at the same time. The key facts to emerge are that New Zealand did experience a noticeable cooler climate, but at a slightly later date than in the Northern Hemisphere. \n\nNew Zealand suffers from many natural hazards, including earthquakes and tsunamis, volcanic and hydrothermal eruptions and landslides.\n\nThe largest earthquake in New Zealand was an M8.2 event in the Wairarapa, in 1855, and the most deaths (261) occurred in a M7.8 earthquake in Hawkes Bay in 1931. Widespread property damage was caused by the 2010 Canterbury earthquake, which measured 7.1; The M6.3 aftershock of 22 February 2011 (2011 Canterbury earthquake) resulted in 185 fatalities. Most recently, the M7.8 Kaikoura earthquake struck just after midnight on November 14, 2016, killing two people in the remote Kaikoura area northeast of Christchurch Numerous aftershocks of M5.0 or greater are spread over a large area between Wellington and Culverden.\n\nNew Zealand is at risk from tsunamis that are generated from both local and international faults. The eastern coast of New Zealand is most at risk as the Pacific Ocean is more tectonically active than the Tasman Sea. Locally the faults along the North Islands east coast provide the greatest risk. Minor tsunamis have occurred in New Zealand from earthquakes in Chile, Alaska and Japan.\n\nThere are many potentially dangerous volcanoes in the Taupo Volcanic Zone. The most severe volcanic eruption since the arrival of Europeans is the Tarawera eruption in 1886. A lahar from Mount Ruapehu derailed a train in 1955 killing 151 people. Even a minor eruption at Ruapehu could cause the loss of electricity for Auckland, due to ash on the power lines, and in the Waikato River (stopping the generation of hydroelectric power).\n\nMany parts of New Zealand are susceptible to landslides, particaly due to deforestaion and the high earthquake risk. Much of the North Island is steep, and composed of soft mudstone known as papa, that easily generates landslides.\n\nNew Zealand main geological resources are Coal, Gold, Oil and natural gas. Coal has been mined in Northland, the Waikato, Taranaki, Nelson and Westland, Canterbury, Otago, and Southland. The West Coast contains some of New Zealand’s best bituminous coal. The largest coal deposits occur in Southland.Gold has been mined in the Coromandel and Kaimai Ranges (especially the Martha Mine at Waihi), Westland, Central Otago, and Eastern Otago (especially Macraes Mine), and on the west coast of the South Island. The only area in New Zealand with significant known oil and gas deposits is the Taranaki area, but many other offshore areas have the potential for deposits. Iron sand is also plentiful on the west coast from Taranaki to Auckland. Jade (Pounamu in Māori) from South Island ophiolites continues to be extracted, mostly from alluvium, and worked for sale. Groundwater reservoirs are extracted throughout the country, but are particularly valuable in the dryer eastern regions of both the North and South Islands.\n\nThe detailed study of New Zealand's geology began with Julius von Haast and Ferdinand von Hochstetter who created numerous regional geological maps of the country during resource exploration in the mid-late 1800's. In 1865 James Hector was appointed to found the Geological Survey of New Zealand. Patrick Marshall coined the terms \"andesite line\" and \"ignimbrite\" in the early 1900's while working in the Taupo Volcanic Zone. Harold Wellman discovered the Alpine Fault and its 480 km offset in 1941. Even though Wellman proved that large block of land could move consid erable distances the New Zealand geological survey was largely a late adopter of plate tectonics. \n\nCharles Cotton became an international authority on geomorphology using New Zealand active tectonics and variable climate to create universally applicably rules. His major works becoming standard text books in New Zealand and overseas. Charles Fleming established the Wanganui Basin as a classic site for studying past sea levels and climates. In 1975 the palaeontologist Joan Wiffen discovered the first dinosaur fossils in New Zealand. \n\nThe Geological Survey of New Zealand now known as GNS Science has done extensive mapping through New Zealand at 1:250,000 and 1:50:000 scales. The most modern map series are the \"QMAPs\" at 1:250,000. New Zealand's geological research is published by GNS Science, in the New Zealand Journal of Geology and Geophysics, and internationally. A Map showing the distribution of earthquakes in New Zealand can be obtained from Te Ara: The Encyclopedia of New Zealand. Current earthquake and volcanic activity can be obtained from the GeoNet website. The universities of Auckland, Canterbury, Massey, Otago, Victoria and Waikato are activity engaged in geological research in New Zealand, Antarctica, the wider South Pacific and elsewhere.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1436748", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1436748", "title": "Geotagged photograph", "text": "Geotagged photograph\n\nA geotagged photograph is a photograph which is associated with a geographical location by geotagging. Usually this is done by assigning at least a latitude and longitude to the image, and optionally altitude, compass bearing and other fields may also be included.\n\nIn theory, every part of a picture can be tied to a geographic location, but in the most typical application, only the position of the photographer is associated with the entire digital image. This has implications for search and retrieval. For example, photos of a mountain summit can be taken from different positions miles apart. To find all images of a particular summit in an image database, all photos taken within a reasonable distance must be considered. The point position of the photographer can in some cases include the bearing, the direction the camera was pointing, as well as the elevation and the DOP.\n\nThere are a few methods of geotagging photographs, either automatic or manual. Automatic methods provide the easiest and most precise method of geotagging an image, providing that a good signal has been acquired at the time of taking the photo.\n\nSeveral manufacturers offer cameras with a built-in GPS receiver, but most cameras with this capability are camera phones as camera manufacturers after initial experience in the market came to treat GPS cameras as a niche market. The 2008 Nikon P6000, for example, an early geotagging camera, was replaced in 2010 by the P7000 which lacked that feature. Some models also include a compass to indicate the direction the camera was facing when the picture was taken.\n\n\nThe D1X and D1H that Nikon introduced in 2002 included a GPS interface. In 2006 the first special GPS receiver for Nikon was produced by Dawntech. Since 2009 Nikon has sold its own Geotagger GP-1. Canon uses the USB socket on the wireless file transmitter unit (WFT) as the GPS interface.\n\nSome digital cameras and camera phones support an external GPS receiver connected by cable, or inserted into the memory card slot or flash shoe. The Samsung SH100 can connect using Wi-Fi to get position data from a GPS-enabled smartphone. Generally the relevant GPS data is automatically stored in the photo's Exif information when the photo is taken. A connected GPS will generally remain switched on continuously, requiring power, and will then have location information available immediately when the camera is switched on.\n\nMany GPS-ready cameras are currently available, made by manufacturers such as Nikon, Fujifilm, Sony and Panasonic. Automatic geotagging combined with real-time transfer and publishing results in real-time geotagging.\n\nMost cameras sold today do not contain a built-in GPS receiver; however, an external location-aware device, such as a hand-held GPS logger, can still be used with a non-GPS digital camera for geotagging. The photo is taken without geographical information and is processed later using software in conjunction with the GPS data. Timestamps made by the camera can be compared with timestamps in the recorded GPS information, provided that the clocks in the separate devices can be synchronized. The resulting coordinates can then be added to the Exif information of the photo.\n\nLocation information can also be added to photos, for example via its Exif specification that has fields for longitude/latitude, even if no GPS device was present when the photo was taken.\n\nThe information can be entered by directly giving the coordinates or by selecting a location from a map using software tools. Some tools allow entry of tags such as city, postal code or a street address. Geocoding and reverse geocoding can be used to convert between locations and addresses.\n\nManual geotagging also introduces possibilities of error, where a photograph's location is incorrectly represented by wrong coordinates. An advanced comparative analysis of such photos with the total collection set of all photos available from the surrounding coordinates, needs to be done to single out and flag such photos, but such a software's value, need and purpose could be limited in today's environment where almost every smartphone and camera have geotagging built-in and users do not need to manually enter this information.\n\nSome manufacturers of military and professional mapping-grade GPS instruments have integrated a GPS receiver with a laser rangefinder and digital camera. These multi-functional tools are able to determine a remote subject's GPS position by calculating the subject's geographic location relative to the camera's GPS position. These instruments are commonly used in military applications when an aircraft or operator is targeting an area, the position is inaccessible (for example over a valley or wetland), there are personal health & safety concerns (motorway traffic), or the user wants to quickly capture multiple targets from a single, safe position (trees, street signage and furniture).\n\nCivilian integrated GPS cameras with rangefinders and remote standoff capability are currently available made by manufacturers such as Ricoh and Surveylab.\n\nWhen geotagged photos are uploaded to online sharing communities such as Flickr, Panoramio or Moblog, the photo can be placed onto a map to view the location the photo was taken. In this way, users can browse photos from a map, search for photos from a given area, and find related photos of the same place from other users.\n\nMany smartphones automatically geotag their photos by default. Photographers who prefer not to reveal their location can turn this feature off. Additionally smartphones can use their GPS to geotag photos taken with an external camera.\nGeotagged photos may be visually stamped with their GPS location information using software tools. A stamped photo affords universal and cross-platform viewing of the photo's location, and offers the security of retaining that location information in the event of metadata corruption, or if file metadata is stripped from a photo, e.g. when uploading to various online photo sharing communities.\n\nGeotagging is also being used to determine social patterns. For example, Now app uses geotagged Instagram photos to find nearby events happening now.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16639288", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16639288", "title": "Green Lakes (Lithuania)", "text": "Green Lakes (Lithuania)\n\nGreen Lakes (Lithuanian: \"Žalieji ežerai\") are six lakes located in northeastern part of Vilnius, Lithuania. They are a part of Verkiai Regional Park.\n\nThe six lakes are named: \n"}
{"id": "1516960", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1516960", "title": "Highest unclimbed mountain", "text": "Highest unclimbed mountain\n\nAn unclimbed mountain is a mountain peak that has yet to be climbed to the top. Determining which unclimbed peak is highest is often a matter of controversy. In some parts of the world, surveying and mapping are still unreliable, and there are no comprehensive records of the routes of explorers, mountaineers and local inhabitants. In some cases, even modern ascents by larger parties have been poorly documented and, with no universally recognized listing, the best that can be achieved in determining the world's highest unclimbed peaks is somewhat speculative. Most sources indicate that Gangkhar Puensum () in Bhutan or on the Bhutan-China border is the tallest mountain in the world that has yet to be fully summited. Gangkhar Puensum has been off limits to climbers since 1994 when Bhutan prohibited all mountaineering above due to spiritual/religious beliefs.\n\nUnclimbed mountains are sometimes referred to as \"virgin peaks\". Many virgin peaks exist because the mountain is unreachable, due to either geographic isolation or political instability. Some mountains remain off limits due to religious beliefs of a country or region that hold such mountains are sacred and should remain inviolate. Additionally, since the endeavor to scale taller mountains of the world is usually a major undertaking, lesser peaks, while still very formidable, simply get less attention than the taller ones, and instead these taller peaks are summited by parties following a new route or perhaps during the winter when conditions are generally more treacherous.\n\nMany mountains, in addition to their highest point or peak, will also have subsidiary subpeaks. Generally, the topographic prominence of a peak or subpeak, as well as the general topography, all come into consideration when determining whether such apexes are considered to be independent peaks or subpeaks. Although objective criteria have been proposed for distinguishing peaks from subpeaks, there is no widely agreed standard. In 1994, the International Climbing and Mountaineering Federation (UIAA) classified 82 mountain peaks in the Alps whose summits were at least above sea level and with at least of topographic prominence over any adjacent mountain pass or col, as a distinct peak.\n\nIt can be difficult sometimes to determine whether or not a mountain peak has been fully summited. Long before modern mountaineering commenced in the middle of the 19th century, evidence indicates that people did indeed travel up to the summits or near to the summits of major mountain peaks. Archaeological excavations in the Andes have shown that humans travelled up to in pre-historic times. Permanent settlements as high as were established as long as 12,000 years ago in the Andes as well. In the Greater Himalaya region, Lhasa, in Tibet, sitting at has been permanently occupied since the 7th century and many smaller settlements across the Greater Himalaya thrive at elevations exceeding . With humans living at high elevations for many millennia, nearby peaks to such settlements may or may not have been summited at some point in the past. However, many regions away from settlements may have never before been explored, especially since some high peaks in the Greater Ranges are so remote that they were unknown to local inhabitants when first sighted by European explorers.\n\nThe worlds third tallest peak, Kangchenjunga, has been summited a number of times, but after the first climbers of the peak agreed to honor the wishes of locals and not set foot on the topmost part of the mountain, succeeding mountaineering parties may have followed this tradition. Similarly, Nanda Devi has also been climbed but the topmost summit was not ascended and the primary summit is now off limits to climbers. Machapuchare had only one summit attempt back in 1957 when climbers came within of the summit; Nepal then banned future attempts.\n\nThe mountain most widely claimed to be the highest unclimbed mountain in the world in terms of elevation is Gangkhar Puensum (). It is in Bhutan, on or near the border with China. In Bhutan, the climbing of mountains higher than has been prohibited since 1994. The rationale for this prohibition is based on local customs that consider this and similar peaks to be the sacred homes of protective deities and spirits, and the lack of high-altitude rescue resources from any locale closer than India. The prohibition was further expanded in 2003 when mountaineering of any kind was disallowed entirely within Bhutan. Gangkhar Puensum will likely remain unclimbed so long as the government of Bhutan prohibits it.\n\nIt is unclear which is the highest unclimbed non-prohibited mountain. While some recognize only peaks with of topographical prominence as individual summits, the International Climbing and Mountaineering Federation uses a as the cutoff for determining individual summits. Based on the International Climbing and Mountaineering Federation's criteria, Muchu Chhish ( with a prominence of ) in Pakistan is currently the world's tallest that has not been climbed even though it is legal to do so. Other unclimbed summits include one on the massif known as Kabru ( prominence c. ), Labuche Kang III/East () with prominence of and Karjiang ( with a prominence of ).\nUnclimbed candidates with high topographic prominence are by definition independent mountains, but some have relatively modest elevations. With such peaks there is a greater possibility of undocumented ascents, perhaps occurring long ago.\n\nSauyr Zhotasy (, prominence of ), the highpoint in the Saur Range on the border between Kazakhstan and China, and Mount Siple (, prominence of ) on Siple Island off the coast of Antarctica, have no record of successful ascents, but the unclimbed status of each of these peaks is difficult to confirm.\n\n"}
{"id": "55940604", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55940604", "title": "Ley (landform)", "text": "Ley (landform)\n\nLey (\"the Ley\", plural: the \"Leyen\") is an old German word for rock, cliff or crag which often occurs in placenames.\n\n\"Ley\", also \"lay\", \"lei\", \"lai\", \"laige\" or \"lägge\", and, accourding to Grimm, \"leie\", is a commonly occurring name for rocks or crags in the Rhenish and Lower German language regions. It is derived from the Old Saxon word, \"lêia\". It is particularly associated with rock precipices (\"Felsabbrüche\") and rock faces (\"Felswände\"), but also with rock slabs (\"Felsplatte\"). In addition, it is also used in the sense of shale or slate \"(Leienstein)\", and also to mean \"slate\" in the sense of a blackboard or roofing tile \"(Leiendecker)\". Its Dutch form is \"leyde\" or \"leye\".\n\nAccording to Celtologists at the University of Trier the term may have originally come from the Gallic (Celtic) word, \"lika, likka\" which means \"rock slab/sheet\".\nIn addition to natural rock walls, an artificial quarry, such as the basalt quarries of the Eifel, may be called a \"Ley\" or \"Lay\". The workers there are known as \"Layer\".\n\n"}
{"id": "7264134", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7264134", "title": "List of British Virgin Islands-related topics", "text": "List of British Virgin Islands-related topics\n\nThe following is an outline of topics related to the British Overseas Territory of the Virgin Islands.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58834044", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58834044", "title": "List of Grand Dukes of Bosnia", "text": "List of Grand Dukes of Bosnia\n\nThe title Grand Duke of Bosnia () was a court title in the Kingdom of Bosnia, bestowed by the King to highest military commanders, usually reserved for most influential and most capable among highest Bosnian nobility. To interpret it as an office post rather than a court rank could be more accurate.\n"}
{"id": "612014", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=612014", "title": "List of Irish place names in other countries", "text": "List of Irish place names in other countries\n\nThis is a \"partial\" or \"incomplete\" list of places in countries other than Ireland named after places in Ireland.\n\nMassive emigration, often called the Irish diaspora, from Ireland in the 19th and 20th centuries resulted in many towns and regions being named or renamed after places in Ireland.\n\nIt might be noted that the following place names sometimes share strong ties with the original place name.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe following come from the Scottish Gaelic \"Èireann\" meaning \"Ireland\":\n\nThe following come from \"Fódla\", \"Banbha\" and \"Eilg\", which are poetic names for Ireland:\n\n\nClifden, Cape Town\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56398428", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56398428", "title": "List of Olmsted works", "text": "List of Olmsted works\n\nThe landscape architecture firm of Frederick Law Olmsted, and later of his sons John Charles Olmsted and Frederick Law Olmsted Jr. (known as the Olmsted Brothers), produced designs and plans for hundreds of parks, campuses and other projects throughout the United States and Canada. This is an non-exhaustive list of those projects.\n\nOlmsted designed numerous school and college campuses between 1857 and 1895.\n\nFrom 1895 to 1950, the Olmsted Brothers (his successors) added to some of their father's initial projects, as well as designing new ones. (See for those projects.) Together, these works totaled 355. Some of the most famous of Frederick Law Olmsted Sr. are listed here.\n\nAfter the retirement of Frederick Law Olmsted Sr in 1895, the firm was managed by John Charles Olmsted and Frederick Law Olmsted Jr., as Olmsted and Olmsted, Olmsted Olmsted and Eliot, and Olmsted Brothers. Works from this period are often misattributed to Frederick Sr.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4865391", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4865391", "title": "List of airports in Antigua and Barbuda", "text": "List of airports in Antigua and Barbuda\n\nThere are three airports operating in Antigua and Barbuda, a nation lying between the Caribbean Sea and the Atlantic Ocean. Antigua and Barbuda consists of two major inhabited islands, Antigua and Barbuda, and a number of smaller islands (including Great Bird, Green, Guinea, Long, Maiden and York Islands). Separated by a few nautical miles, the group is in the middle of the Leeward Islands, part of the Lesser Antilles.\n\nBoldface indicates the airport has scheduled passenger service on commercial airlines.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22890162", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22890162", "title": "List of extreme points of Latvia", "text": "List of extreme points of Latvia\n\nThis is a list of the extreme points of Latvia: the points that are farther north, south, east or west than any other location.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1223976", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1223976", "title": "List of political parties in the Northern Mariana Islands", "text": "List of political parties in the Northern Mariana Islands\n\nThis article lists political parties in the Northern Mariana Islands. \nThe Northern Marianas has a multi-party system, with two or three strong parties and a third party that is electorally successful.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47669437", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47669437", "title": "List of postal codes in Yugoslavia", "text": "List of postal codes in Yugoslavia\n\nYugoslavian postal codes consisted of five digits. The first two digits roughly correspond to the corresponding districts; district seat cities usually had 000 as the last three digits, while smaller towns and villages had non-round last three digits.\n"}
{"id": "3540753", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3540753", "title": "National Register of Historic Places listings in Guam", "text": "National Register of Historic Places listings in Guam\n\nThis is a list of the buildings, sites, districts, and objects listed on the National Register of Historic Places in Guam. There are currently 132 listed sites spread across 17 of the 19 villages of Guam. The villages of Agana Heights and Mongmong-Toto-Maite do not have any listings.\n\nListed historic sites include Spanish colonial ruins, a few surviving pre-World War II ifil houses, Japanese fortifications, two massacre sites, and a historic district. Two other locations that were previously listed have been removed from the Register.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20749040", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20749040", "title": "National mapping agency", "text": "National mapping agency\n\nA national mapping agency is an organisation, usually publicly owned, that produces topographic maps and geographic information of a country. Some national mapping agencies also deal with cadastral matters.\n\nThe first national mapping agency was the Ordnance Survey in the United Kingdom; its roots go back to 1747, when the compilation of a map of the Scottish Highlands was proposed. This survey at a scale of 1 inch to 1000 yards (1:36,000) was the starting point of the Principal Triangulation of Great Britain (1783–1853), and led to the creation of the Ordnance Survey itself; work was begun in earnest in 1790, when the Board of Ordnance began a national military survey at one-inch-to-the-mile (1:63,360 scale). During the next thirty years, roughly a third of England and Wales was mapped (see Principal Triangulation of Great Britain), as other military matters took precedence.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4696437", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4696437", "title": "OGC Reference Model", "text": "OGC Reference Model\n\nThe OGC Reference Model describes a framework for the ongoing work of the \nOpen Geospatial Consortium (OGC) and their specifications and implementing interoperable \nsolutions and applications for geospatial services, data, and applications. It is not an OGC standard.\n\nIt has the following purposes:\n\n"}
{"id": "22096287", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22096287", "title": "Okpofe", "text": "Okpofe\n\nOkpofe is an autonomous community located in Ezinihitte Mbaise LGA, Imo State, Nigeria with common boundaries with Itu, Ezeagbogu, Ihitte and Amumara autonomous communities.Okpofe is the very centre of Ezinihitte Mbaise Clan. It is the only town in Ezinihitte Mbaise that does not share a boundary with another local government area in Imo State. It is quite a unique town in Ezinihitte. Most of the general activities of Ezinihitte people hold in Okpofe due to its Central position. It is also on record that the Roman Catholic Church first established in Okpofe town in the whole of Ezinihitte Mbaise(by 2018, the town will be marking the centenary celebration of the existence of the Roman Catholic Church in Okpofe.) The Anglican Juniorate in Mbaise is located in Okpofe.\n\nThe story of Okpofe cannot be complete any day without mention to Late Sydney Ngozi Njoku. He almost single-handedly financed the building of Okpofe Secondary School, Okpofe Town Hall, The Okpofe Post Office. He undertook and concluded several human and structural developmental projects in Okpofe, Ezinihitte and Imo State at large. Singoz as he was popularly called died in 1983 at a very youthful age of 42 years.\n\nOkpofe, which is broadly divided into two sections- Umuerim and Imoko, is made up of 12 villages namely:\n\n Note that this list is not in order of seniority. The first six villages belong to Imoko while the last six villages belong to Umuerim.\n\nOkpofe has a central market called Afo-Ekiri Market,which is located at the centre of the entire community.It is also called Ahia Afor because it holds on Afor days.The second market which is at Umuke village is called Nkwo-onyeokamma.It holds on Nkwo days.\n\nThe two largest churches in Okpofe are; Christ the King Catholic Church and St. Marks Anglican Church.There are also the Apostolic, Assemblies of God, Christ Chosen, Christ Faith, SDA,Cherubim and Seraphim,Christ Solution Ministry,etc.\n\nOkpofe Community has a secondary school (Okpofe Secondary School), and an Anglican Juniorate (Mary Sumner Juniorate) three primary schools (Central School aka CKS, Community School, and Group School Okpofe), and a private Secondary School (Bro Fab)\n\nMicro-finance bank, Okpofe town hall, health center, post office, etc. in Okpofe.\n\nThere is an Okpofe Improvement Union (OIU) in the community with branches in: Port Harcourt, Owerri, Aba, Enugu, Lagos, Onitsha, Warri, Calabar, Makurdi, Kaduna, Ibadan, Abuja, Kano, New York City and ODA USA. The OIU Home and Abroad has contributed to the development and improvement of the community.It is at the moment headed by Mr. Ralph Okeahialam Ntiajuka, a renowned chartered accountant of repute.\n\n"}
{"id": "36994479", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36994479", "title": "Online map services of Slovenia", "text": "Online map services of Slovenia\n\nOnline map services of Slovenia are based on data provided by the Surveying and Mapping Authority of the Republic of Slovenia, such as orthophoto covering entire territory of Slovenia with detailed imagery taken from a plane rather than satellite, and combine them with additional contents that are of interest to tourists and residents of Slovenia. Orthophoto images are taken every second year and provide more detailed aerial view of entire territory whereas satellite imagery shown by Google Maps only use detailed images for city areas and along major roads, but not for the entire territory. This is why orthophoto images are cited by geographers to show environmental change, rather than images taken by satellites that are shown on Google Maps.\n\nNajdi.si combines orthophoto maps (despite its aerial view tab being named \"satellite\") with other contents, such as traffic info, city bus lines for Ljubljana and Maribor, and current info on the number of available bikes at BicikeLJ stations in Ljubljana. \n\nGeopedia.si offers a number of maps, including:\n"}
{"id": "57329284", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57329284", "title": "Pole (surveying)", "text": "Pole (surveying)\n\nIn surveying, a pole is bar made of wood or metal and normally held vertical, upon which different instruments can be mounted: a prism, a GPS device, etc. It may be manufactured with a predetermined length (e.g., 2 meters) or may be graduated for different heights or stages.\n\n"}
{"id": "51765977", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51765977", "title": "Rocket Lab Launch Complex 1", "text": "Rocket Lab Launch Complex 1\n\nRocket Lab Launch Complex 1 is a commercial spaceport located close to Ahuriri Point at the southern tip of Mahia Peninsula, on the east coast of New Zealand's North Island. It is owned and operated by private spaceflight company Rocket Lab and will support launches of the company's Electron rocket for CubeSat nanosatellites. The facility officially opened on 26 September 2016 (UTC).\n\nLaunch Complex 1 features a launch platform and tower, a hangar for the Electron rockets, and storage tanks for liquid oxygen and kerosene. During the test phase of launch operations, which began in May 2017, the exclusion zone would likely be an radius from the pad, and would reduce in size once the site became commercially operational.\n\nRocket Lab announced on 1 July 2015 that it had selected Kaitorete Spit in New Zealand's South Island near Canterbury as the site of the launch facility for its Electron rocket, and that it hoped to have construction finished by the end of the year. While the site would not permit equatorial launches due to the presence of Banks Peninsula to the east, it was favourable for Sun-synchronous orbital flights, which the company believed would be of primary interest to its customers. The site was also logistically favourable as the company wanted to build a rocket production facility in nearby Christchurch.\n\nThe Mahia Peninsula site at Onenui Station was mentioned in August 2015 as a possible second launch facility. It had first been visited by company officials in April 2015 as part of their initial scouting for launch sites, and were preparing to submit a resource consent application. By mid-October, the application had been approved by the Wairoa District Council and Hawke's Bay Regional Council only seven days after its submission, with the Gisborne Chamber of Commerce and the Eastland Community Trust working with Rocket Lab to support its bid for the Mahia site.\n\nOn 23 November 2015, Rocket Lab stated that the Mahia Peninsula site would be the priority launch facility because of delays in obtaining resource consents for developing at Kaitorete Spit.\n\nWhile certain authorisations had been obtained for Kaitorete, such as stormwater and air discharge permits from Environment Canterbury, a coastal permit for occupation of the area, and a Department of Conservation permit, the Christchurch City Council had not consented to the development due to an incomplete Cultural Impact Assessment, resulting in no action under Sections 95 and 104 of the Resource Management Act 1991. The company said that efforts would continue to gain consent for a launch pad on Kaitorete Spit due to its logistical superiority and the foreseen need for additional facilities, but that the Mahia site offered superior launch corridor and flight rate opportunities because of its geographical location and relatively sparse air traffic. The Mahia site is licensed for a maximum launch rate of once every 72 hours over a period of 30 years—Rocket Lab believes the actual rate would average once per week—while the Kaitorete site would only have been licensed to launch once per month.\n\nThe company broke ground at Mahia in December 2015, and by June 2016 most of the infrastructure work had been completed, including upgrades to roads and internet services, and work was progressing on the electrical, mechanical and communications infrastructure. Rocket Lab signed an agreement with air traffic service provider Airways New Zealand in early September 2016 to develop \"special use airspace\" and ensure regular flight activity, which the company estimates could be up to 100 launches per year.\n\nThe Mahia Peninsula site, named Rocket Lab Launch Complex 1, was officially opened on 26 September 2016 (UTC) in a ceremony presided over by Minister for Economic Development Steven Joyce. It was attended by approximately 240 people, including company employees, local landowners, and Labour Party leader Andrew Little.\n\nRocket Lab carried out the first test flight of its Electron rocket, named \"It's a Test\", on 25 May 2017 at 04:20 UTC, coming after three delays caused by bad weather during a launch window that extended from 21 May to 1 June. While lift-off from Launch Complex 1 was successful, the rocket failed to reach its intended Sun-synchronous orbit, only making it to about .\n\nThe second launch from the launch mount was made 21 January 2018 at 01:43 UTC, successfully making it to orbit. The Electron rocket, named \"Still Testing\", carried a Dove Pioneer satellite for Planet Labs, two Lemur-2 satellites for Spire Global and the Humanity Star.\n\n"}
{"id": "20922186", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20922186", "title": "Sociedad Mexicana de Geografía y Estadística", "text": "Sociedad Mexicana de Geografía y Estadística\n\nSociedad Mexicana de Geografía y Estadística (Mexican Society for Geography and Statistics) is a national organization founded on 18 April 1833 to promote the mapping and boundary demarcation of the newly independent Mexican state. The aim of its founders was to aid a number of governmental agencies and through the efforts of liberal head of state, Valentín Gómez Farías. It was the first geographical society in the Americas and the fourth in the world.\n\nFrom the beginning, the scope of projects was very broad, covering not only the physiography of the territory but also its natural resources and their potential for development. Also included in their study was the nature of the population, its size, age distribution, ethnic and linguistic makeup. One of the first publications was in 1850, the work of geographer Antonio García Cubas, followed by an atlas of the republic, started in 1841 and completed in 1850, but not published for several years due to lack of funds.\n\nAmong the achievements of the Society were:\n\nCurrently the Society contributes to the research, analysis and understanding of the major problems of Mexico through its 55 specialized academies and local societies involved in the various Mexican states. This includes close ties with Instituto Nacional de Estadística y Geografía (INEGI), and working with the various Mexican universities as well as with major U.S. institutions.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20611127", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20611127", "title": "South Pole", "text": "South Pole\n\nThe South Pole, also known as the Geographic South Pole or Terrestrial South Pole, is one of the two points where the Earth's axis of rotation intersects its surface. It is the southernmost point on the surface of the Earth and lies on the opposite side of the Earth from the North Pole.\n\nSituated on the continent of Antarctica, it is the site of the United States Amundsen–Scott South Pole Station, which was established in 1956 and has been permanently staffed since that year. The Geographic South Pole is distinct from the South Magnetic Pole, the position of which is defined based on the Earth's magnetic field. The South Pole is at the center of the Southern Hemisphere.\n\nFor most purposes, the Geographic South Pole is defined as the southern point of the two points where the Earth's axis of rotation intersects its surface (the other being the Geographic North Pole). However, the Earth's axis of rotation is actually subject to very small \"wobbles\" (polar motion), so this definition is not adequate for very precise work.\n\nThe geographic coordinates of the South Pole are usually given simply as 90°S, since its longitude is geometrically undefined and irrelevant. When a longitude is desired, it may be given as At the South Pole, all directions face north. For this reason, directions at the Pole are given relative to \"grid north\", which points northwards along the prime meridian. Along tight latitude circles, clockwise is east, and counterclockwise is west, opposite to the North Pole.\n\nThe Geographic South Pole is located on the continent of Antarctica (although this has not been the case for all of Earth's history because of continental drift). It sits atop a featureless, barren, windswept and icy plateau at an altitude of 2,835 metres (9,301 ft) above sea level, and is located about 1,300 km (800 mi) from the nearest open sea at Bay of Whales. The ice is estimated to be about 2,700 metres (9,000 ft) thick at the Pole, so the land surface under the ice sheet is actually near sea level.\n\nThe polar ice sheet is moving at a rate of roughly 10 metres per year in a direction between 37° and 40° west of grid north, down towards the Weddell Sea. Therefore, the position of the station and other artificial features relative to the geographic pole gradually shift over time.\n\nThe Geographic South Pole is marked by a stake in the ice alongside a small sign; these are repositioned each year in a ceremony on New Year's Day to compensate for the movement of the ice. The sign records the respective dates that Roald Amundsen and Robert F. Scott reached the Pole, followed by a short quotation from each man, and gives the elevation as \"9,301 \"FT.\"\". A new marker stake is designed and fabricated each year by staff at the site.\n\nThe Ceremonial South Pole is an area set aside for photo opportunities at the South Pole Station. It is located some meters from the Geographic South Pole, and consists of a metallic sphere on a short bamboo pole, surrounded by the flags of the original Antarctic Treaty signatory states.\n\nAmundsen's Tent: The tent was erected by the Norwegian expedition led by Roald Amundsen on its arrival on 14 December 1911. It is currently buried beneath the snow and ice in the vicinity of the Pole. It has been designated a Historic Site or Monument (HSM 80), following a proposal by Norway to the Antarctic Treaty Consultative Meeting. The precise location of the tent is unknown, but based on calculations of the rate of movement of the ice and the accumulation of snow, it is believed, as of 2010, to lie between 1.8 and 2.5 km (1.1 and 1.6 miles) from the Pole at a depth of 17 m (56 ft) below the present surface.\n\nArgentine Flagpole: A flagpole erected at the South Geographical Pole in December 1965 by the First Argentine Overland Polar Expedition has been designated a Historic Site or Monument (HSM 1) following a proposal by Argentina to the Antarctic Treaty Consultative Meeting.\n\nIn 1820, several expeditions claimed to have been the first to have sighted Antarctica, with the very first being the Russian expedition led by Fabian Gottlieb von Bellingshausen and Mikhail Lazarev. The first landing was probably just over a year later when American Captain John Davis, a sealer, set foot on the ice.\n\nThe basic geography of the Antarctic coastline was not understood until the mid-to-late 19th century. American naval officer Charles Wilkes claimed (correctly) that Antarctica was a new continent, basing the claim on his exploration in 1839–40, while James Clark Ross, in his expedition of 1839–43, hoped that he might be able to sail all the way to the South Pole. (He was unsuccessful.)\n\nBritish explorer Robert Falcon Scott on the Discovery Expedition of 1901–04 was the first to attempt to find a route from the Antarctic coastline to the South Pole. Scott, accompanied by Ernest Shackleton and Edward Wilson, set out with the aim of travelling as far south as possible, and on 31 December 1902, reached 82°16′ S. Shackleton later returned to Antarctica as leader of the British Antarctic Expedition (Nimrod Expedition) in a bid to reach the Pole. On 9 January 1909, with three companions, he reached 88°23' S – from the Pole – before being forced to turn back.\n\nThe first men to reach the Geographic South Pole were the Norwegian Roald Amundsen and his party on December 14, 1911. Amundsen named his camp Polheim and the entire plateau surrounding the Pole \"King Haakon VII Vidde\" in honour of King Haakon VII of Norway. Robert Falcon Scott returned to Antarctica with his second expedition, the Terra Nova Expedition, initially unaware of Amundsen's secretive expedition. Scott and four other men reached the South Pole on January 17, 1912, thirty-four days after Amundsen. On the return trip, Scott and his four companions all died of starvation and extreme cold.\n\nIn 1914 Ernest Shackleton's Imperial Trans-Antarctic Expedition set out with the goal of crossing Antarctica via the South Pole, but his ship, the \"Endurance\", was frozen in pack ice and sank 11 months later. The overland journey was never made.\n\nUS Admiral Richard Evelyn Byrd, with the assistance of his first pilot Bernt Balchen, became the first person to fly over the South Pole on November 29, 1929.\n\nIt was not until 31 October 1956 that humans once again set foot at the South Pole, when a party led by Admiral George J. Dufek of the US Navy landed there in an R4D-5L Skytrain (C-47 Skytrain) aircraft. The US Amundsen–Scott South Pole Station was established by air over 1956–1957 for the International Geophysical Year and has been continuously staffed since then by research and support personnel.\n\nAfter Amundsen and Scott, the next people to reach the South Pole \"overland\" (albeit with some air support) were Edmund Hillary (January 4, 1958) and Vivian Fuchs (January 19, 1958) and their respective parties, during the Commonwealth Trans-Antarctic Expedition. There have been many subsequent expeditions to arrive at the South Pole by surface transportation, including those by Havola, Crary and Fiennes. The first group of women to reach the pole were Pam Young, Jean Pearson, Lois Jones, Eileen McSaveney, Kay Lindsay and Terry Tickhill in 1969. In 1978-79 Michele Eileen Raney became the first woman to winter at the South Pole.\n\nSubsequent to the establishment, in 1987, of the logistic support base at Patriot Hills Base Camp, the South Pole became more accessible to non-government expeditions.\n\nOn December 30, 1989, Arved Fuchs and Reinhold Messner were the first to traverse Antarctica via the South Pole without animal or motorized help, using only skis and the help of wind. Two women, Victoria E. Murden and Shirley Metz reached the pole by land on January 17, 1989.\n\nThe fastest unsupported journey to the Geographic South Pole from the ocean is 24 days and one hour from Hercules Inlet and was set in 2011 by Norwegian adventurer Christian Eide, who beat the previous solo record set in 2009 by American Todd Carmichael of 39 days and seven hours, and the previous group record also set in 2009 of 33 days and 23 hours.\n\nThe fastest solo (female), unsupported and unassisted trek to the south pole was performed by Hannah McKeand from the UK in 2006. She made the journey in 39 days 9hrs 33mins. She started on the 19th November 2006 and finished on the 28 December 2006.\n\nIn the 2011/12 summer, separate expeditions by Norwegian Aleksander Gamme and Australians James Castrission and Justin Jones jointly claimed the first unsupported trek without dogs or kites from the Antarctic coast to the South Pole and back. The two expeditions started from Hercules Inlet a day apart, with Gamme starting first, but completing according to plan the last few kilometres together. As Gamme traveled alone he thus simultaneously became the first to complete the task solo.\n\nDuring the southern winter (March–September), the South Pole receives no sunlight at all, and from May 11 to August 1, between extended periods of twilight, it is completely dark (apart from moonlight). In the summer (September–March), the sun is continuously above the horizon and appears to move in a counter-clockwise circle. However, it is always low in the sky, reaching a maximum of 23.5° in December. Much of the sunlight that does reach the surface is reflected by the white snow. This lack of warmth from the sun, combined with the high altitude (about ), means that the South Pole has one of the coldest climates on Earth (though it is not quite the coldest; that record goes to the region in the vicinity of the Vostok Station, also in Antarctica, which lies at a higher elevation). Temperatures at the South Pole are much lower than at the North Pole, primarily because the South Pole is located at altitude in the middle of a continental land mass, while the North Pole is at sea level in the middle of an ocean, which acts as a reservoir of heat.\n\nThe South Pole is at an altitude of but feels like .. Centrifugal force from the spin of the planet pulls the atmosphere toward the equator. The South Pole is colder than the North Pole because of the elevation difference. The North Pole is a few feet from sea level.\n\nIn midsummer, as the sun reaches its maximum elevation of about 23.5 degrees, high temperatures at the South Pole in January average at . As the six-month \"day\" wears on and the sun gets lower, temperatures drop as well: they reach around sunset (late March) and sunrise (late September). In midwinter, the average temperature remains steady at around . The highest temperature ever recorded at the Amundsen–Scott South Pole Station was on Christmas Day, 2011, and the lowest was on June 23, 1982 (for comparison, the lowest temperature directly recorded anywhere on earth was at Vostok Station on July 21, 1983, though was measured indirectly by satellite in East Antarctica between Dome A and Dome F in August 2010).\n\nThe South Pole has a polar climate (Köppen climate classification \"EF\"). It resembles a desert, receiving very little precipitation. Air humidity is near zero. However, high winds can cause the blowing of snowfall, and the accumulation of snow amounts to about per year. The former dome seen in pictures of the Amundsen–Scott station is partially buried due to snow storms, and the entrance to the dome had to be regularly bulldozed to uncover it. More recent buildings are raised on stilts so that the snow does not build up against the sides of them.\n\nIn most places on Earth, local time is determined by longitude, such that the time of day is more-or-less synchronised to the position of the sun in the sky (for example, at midday the sun is roughly at its highest). This line of reasoning fails at the South Pole, where the sun rises and sets only once per year, and all lines of longitude, and hence all time zones, converge. There is no \"a priori\" reason for placing the South Pole in any particular time zone, but as a matter of practical convenience the Amundsen–Scott South Pole Station keeps New Zealand Time (UTC+12/UTC+13). This is because the US flies its resupply missions (\"Operation Deep Freeze\") out of McMurdo Station, which is supplied from Christchurch, New Zealand.\n\nDue to its exceptionally harsh climate, there are no native resident plants or animals at the South Pole. Remarkably, though, off-course south polar skuas and snow petrels are occasionally seen there.\n\nIn 2000 it was reported that microbes had been detected living in the South Pole ice.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28509784", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28509784", "title": "Telephone numbers in Cambodia", "text": "Telephone numbers in Cambodia\n\nTo dial a land line in Cambodia all over the country, the format is Area Code + Phone Number. The area code is 3 digits long, followed by a 6 or 7 digit phone number.\n\nCalls made from outside Cambodia must omit the prefix 0. Therefore, to call a land line number in Phnom Penh from other countries, dialing begins with +855 23 followed by 6 or 7 digits.\n\nArea codes starting with 02\n\nArea codes starting with 03\n\nArea codes starting with 04\n\nArea codes starting with 05\n\nArea codes starting with 06\n\nArea codes starting with 07\n\nLikewise to call mobile phones from land line or other mobile phones, domestic dialing begins a 0 followed by 8 or 9 digits.\n\nMobile numbers in Cambodia take the form: 0TT-AXX-XXXY.\n\nThe first two numbers after the leading 0 or 'TT' in the example above identify the operator. For example, 010 234 567 is an example of a 9 digit mobile number from Smart. 088 234 5678 on the other hand is an example of a 10 digit mobile number from Metfone.\n\nThe 3rd digit after the leading 0 or 'A' in the example above must be between 1 and 9. Normally this value is between 2 and 9 which allows a value of '1' to be used for mobile phones which are roaming in Cambodia. However some operators such as Mobitel are using a '1' in this range to extend their number ranges for certain popular prefixes. For example, 012 123 4567 and 092 123 456 are valid mobile numbers in Cambodia.\n\n'X' can take the values 0 to 9 and 'Y' is an optional extra digit which is used by some operators.\n\nMost mobile numbers are 8 digits long (excluding the leading 0), however some operators are now using 9 digit numbers. 0882345678 is an example of a valid 9 digit mobile number.\n\nCalls made from outside Cambodia must omit the prefix 0. Therefore, to call a mobile number in Cambodia from other countries, dialing begins with +855 1, +855 8, or +855 9 etc.\n"}
{"id": "17865231", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17865231", "title": "Tussock grassland", "text": "Tussock grassland\n\nTussock grassland is a form of open grassland with tussock bunchgrass species, that is common in some Temperate grasslands, savannas, and shrublands ecoregions of the Southern hemisphere.\n\nExamples are found in: New Zealand (e.g. New Zealand tussock grasslands), Australia, Argentina, temperate areas of southern and eastern Africa, and some subantarctic islands. \n\nIt is usually typified by low rainfall and poor soils, in which few plants other than hardy tussock grasses can flourish.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "303839", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303839", "title": "Underground city", "text": "Underground city\n\nAn underground city is a series of linked subterranean spaces that may provide a defensive refuge; a place for living, working or shopping; a transit system; mausolea; wine or storage cellars; cisterns or drainage channels; or several of these.\n\nThe term may also refer to a network of tunnels that connects buildings beneath street level that may house office blocks, shopping malls, metro stations, theatres, and other attractions. These passages can usually be accessed through the public space of any of the buildings connecting to them, and sometimes have separate entries as well. This latter definition encompasses many modern structures, whereas the former more generally covers tunnel systems from ancient times to the present day.\n\nUnderground cities are especially functional in cities with very cold or hot climates, because they permit activities to be comfortably accessible year round without regard to the weather. Underground cities are similar in nature to skyway systems and may include some buildings linked by skyways or above-ground corridors rather than underground.\n\nSome cities also have underground tunnels that have been abandoned.\n\nBuenos Aires, capital of Argentina, has an extensive amount of underground cities in its Subte. Most stations have small shops, bars and kiosks, while main hubs interconnect through underground pedestrian walkways with railroad stations, governmental buildings, or shopping centres. Some have additional mall-like mezzanine levels, with the Centro Obelisk of Buenos Aires area (3 lines, 4 underground levels), Estación Retiro, Estación Constitución, Estación Once, and Federico Lacroze railway station being the most important ones.\n\nSydney has a series of underground shopping malls around the underground station Town Hall. The tunnels run south to the George Street cinema district, west under the town hall, and north to Pitt Street Mall through the Queen Victoria Building. The northern branch links Queen Victoria Building with Galleries Victoria, Sydney Central Plaza (which in turn links underground to Westfield CentrePoint and internally above ground to Centrepoint, Imperial Arcade, Skygarden, Glasshouse, and the MLC Centre). The linked centres run for over . In 2005, Westfield corporation submitted a development application to link Sydney Central Plaza underground with 3 other properties on Pitt Street Mall and extend the tunnel network by a further or more.\n\nPerth has a small network of underground shopping malls running from the St Georges Terrace entrance to Trinity Arcade to Murray Street Mall.\n\nThe small town of Coober Pedy in northern South Australia has numerous underground residences and other facilities. The area was and is extensively mined for opal, and the settlers lived underground to escape the scorching daytime heat, often exceeding .\n\nThe cold northern continental climate makes underground pedestrian malls quite useful.\n\nSantiago has some elements of an underground city in its \"Metro\" subway system. While all stations have a small mezzanine level above the tracks for ticket purchase, some key stations have extensive areas of shops and kiosks in addition. Some stations even have an additional mall-like level between the street and the mezzanine levels.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nIn Thessaloniki, Hellenistic, Roman, Byzantine, and Ottoman monuments coexist that bear witness to the city history and its significance. Several of the underground secrets of Thessaloniki have been discovered and emerged, while restoration work is under process. Although the final result is impressive with underground monuments such as the Catacombs of St. John and the underground museum of the Agora, they do not comprise highlights for the city and access is still very limited or not permitted even to the locals by the Archaeological Department of the Thessaloniki underground Metro project.\n\n\n\nThe top five largest underground \"cities\" (地下街, \"chikagai\") in Japan are all shopping districts:\n\nJordan boasts the city of Petra — \"rose-red city, half as old as time\" — carved from the living rock.\n\nGuanajuato city was built over old silver mines, some of which are used as roads. The Mexico DF metro system has many underground pedestrian walkways connecting stations.\n\nIn general, many large railway stations house underground hallways featuring shops, restaurants, banks and money exchange offices. A striking example of such stations would be the main hallway of the Amsterdam central station, which connects to the city's metro system, although due to renovation and re-building it was temporarily (2012–2015) not possible to walk from the subway to the train station without going outside.\n\n\nWarsaw: Warszawa Centralna railway station is connected by underground pedestrian tunnels to adjacent rail stations Warszawa Śródmieście and Warszawa WKD, Złote Tarasy shopping center, and the Centrum LIM skyscraper.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nTaipei has underground streets connecting two or more metro stations. In addition, there is a large underground shopping mall near the main train station.\n\n\n\nKiev: An underground concourse extends underneath Khreschatyk Street from Maidan Nezalezhnosti to Ploscha L'va Tolstoho. The concourse connects to the Kiev Metro and to the Globe shopping mall beneath Maidan Nezalezhnosti.\n\n\n\nOther parent categories from the same field:\n\nTypes of underground spaces and people, and related topics:\n"}
{"id": "2514694", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2514694", "title": "Universal Transverse Mercator coordinate system", "text": "Universal Transverse Mercator coordinate system\n\nThe Universal Transverse Mercator (UTM) conformal projection uses a 2-dimensional Cartesian coordinate system to give locations on the surface of the Earth. Like the traditional method of latitude and longitude, it is a horizontal position representation, i.e. it is used to identify locations on the Earth independently of vertical position. However, it differs from that method in several respects.\n\nThe UTM system is not a single map projection. The system instead divides the Earth into sixty zones, each being a six-degree band of longitude, and uses a secant transverse Mercator projection in each zone.\nMost American published sources do not indicate an origin for the UTM system. The NOAA website states the system to have been developed by the United States Army Corps of Engineers, starting in the early 1940s, and published material that does state an origin apparently based on that account. However, a series of aerial photos found in the Bundesarchiv-Militärarchiv (the military section of the German Federal Archives) apparently dating from 1943–1944 bear the inscription UTMREF followed by grid letters and digits, and projected according to the transverse Mercator, a finding that would indicate that something called the UTM Reference system was developed in the 1942–43 time frame by the Wehrmacht. It was probably carried out by the Abteilung für Luftbildwesen (Department for Aerial Photography). From 1947 onward the US Army employed a very similar system, but with the now-standard 0.9996 scale factor at the central meridian as opposed to the German 1.0. For areas within the contiguous United States the Clarke Ellipsoid of 1866 was used. For the remaining areas of Earth, including Hawaii, the International Ellipsoid was used. The WGS84 ellipsoid is now generally used to model the Earth in the UTM coordinate system, which means current UTM northing at a given point can differ up to 200 meters from the old. For different geographic regions, other datum systems (e.g.: ED50, NAD83) can be used.\n\nPrior to the development of the Universal Transverse Mercator coordinate system, several European nations demonstrated the utility of grid-based conformal maps by mapping their territory during the interwar period. Calculating the distance between two points on these maps could be performed more easily in the field (using the Pythagorean theorem) than was possible using the trigonometric formulas required under the graticule-based system of latitude and longitude. In the post-war years, these concepts were extended into the Universal Transverse Mercator/Universal Polar Stereographic (UTM/UPS) coordinate system, which is a global (or universal) system of grid-based maps.\n\nThe transverse Mercator projection is a variant of the Mercator projection, which was originally developed by the Flemish geographer and cartographer Gerardus Mercator, in 1570. This projection is conformal, which means it preserves angles and therefore shapes across small regions. However, it distorts distance and area.\n\nThe UTM system divides the Earth into 60 zones, each 6° of longitude in width. Zone 1 covers longitude 180° to 174° W; zone numbering increases eastward to zone 60, which covers longitude 174°E to 180°. The polar regions south of 80°S and north of 84°N are excluded.\n\nEach of the 60 zones uses a transverse Mercator projection that can map a region of large north-south extent with low distortion. By using narrow zones of 6° of longitude (up to 668 km) in width, and reducing the scale factor along the central meridian to 0.9996 (a reduction of 1:2500), the amount of distortion is held below 1 part in 1,000 inside each zone. Distortion of scale increases to 1.0010 at the zone boundaries along the equator.\n\nIn each zone the scale factor of the central meridian reduces the diameter of the transverse cylinder to produce a secant projection with two standard lines, or lines of true scale, about 180 km on each side of, and about parallel to, the central meridian (Arc cos 0.9996 = 1.62° at the Equator). The scale is less than 1 inside the standard lines and greater than 1 outside them, but the overall distortion is minimized.\n\nDistortion of scale increases in each UTM zone as the boundaries between the UTM zones are approached. However, it is often convenient or necessary to measure a series of locations on a single grid when some are located in two adjacent zones. Around the boundaries of large scale maps (1:100,000 or larger) coordinates for both adjoining UTM zones are usually printed within a minimum distance of 40 km on either side of a zone boundary. Ideally, the coordinates of each position should be measured on the grid for the zone in which they are located, but because the scale factor is still relatively small near zone boundaries, it is possible to overlap measurements into an adjoining zone for some distance when necessary.\n\nLatitude bands are not a part of UTM, but rather a part of the military grid reference system (MGRS). They are however sometimes used.\n\nEach zone is segmented into 20 latitude bands. Each latitude band is 8 degrees high, and is lettered starting from \"C\" at 80°S, increasing up the English alphabet until \"X\", omitting the letters \"I\" and \"O\" (because of their similarity to the numerals one and zero). The last latitude band, \"X\", is extended an extra 4 degrees, so it ends at 84°N latitude, thus covering the northernmost land on Earth.\n\nLatitude bands \"A\" and \"B\" do exist, as do bands \"Y\" and \"Z\". They cover the western and eastern sides of the Antarctic and Arctic regions respectively. A convenient mnemonic to remember is that the letter \"N\" is the first letter in \"northern hemisphere\", so any letter coming before \"N\" in the alphabet is in the southern hemisphere, and any letter \"N\" or after is in the northern hemisphere.\n\nThe combination of a zone and a latitude band defines a grid zone. The zone is always written first, followed by the latitude band. For example, (see image, top right), a position in Toronto, Ontario, Canada, would find itself in zone 17 and latitude band \"T\", thus the full grid zone reference is \"17T\". The grid zones serve to delineate irregular UTM zone boundaries. They also are an integral part of the military grid reference system.\n\nA note of caution: A method also is used that simply adds N or S following the zone number to indicate North or South hemisphere (the easting and northing coordinates along with the zone number supplying everything necessary to geolocate a position except which hemisphere). However, this method has caused some confusion since, for instance, \"50S\" can mean southern hemisphere but also \"grid zone\" \"50S\" in the northern hemisphere. There are many possible ways to disambiguate between the two methods, two of which are demonstrated later in this article.\n\nThese grid zones are uniform over the globe, except in two areas. On the southwest coast of Norway, grid zone 32V (9° of longitude in width) is extended further west, and grid zone 31V (3° of longitude in width) is correspondingly shrunk to cover only open water. Also, in the region around Svalbard, the four grid zones 31X (9° of longitude in width), 33X (12° of longitude in width), 35X (12° of longitude in width), and 37X (9° of longitude in width) are extended to cover what would otherwise have been covered by the seven grid zones 31X to 37X. The three grid zones 32X, 34X and 36X are not used.\n\nPicture gallery: Grid zones in various parts of the world\n\nA position on the Earth is given by the UTM zone number and the easting and northing planar coordinate pair in that zone. The point of origin of each UTM zone is the intersection of the equator and the zone's central meridian. To avoid dealing with negative numbers, the central meridian of each zone is defined to coincide with meters East. In any zone a point that has an easting of meters is about 100 km west of the central meridian. For most such points, the true distance would be slightly more than 100 km as measured on the surface of the Earth due to the distortion of the projection. UTM eastings range from about meters to meters at the equator.\n\nIn the northern hemisphere positions are measured northward from zero at the equator. The maximum \"northing\" value is about meters at latitude 84 degrees North, the north end of the UTM zones. In the southern hemisphere northings decrease southward from the equator to about meters at 80 degrees South, the south end of the UTM zones. The northing at the equator is set at meters so no point has a negative northing value.\n\nThe CN Tower is at , which is in UTM zone 17, and the grid position is  m east,  m north. Two points in Zone 17 have these coordinates, one in the northern hemisphere and one in the south; one of two conventions is used to say which:\nBecause latitude band \"S\" is in the northern hemisphere, a designation such as \"38S\" is unclear. The \"S\" might refer to the latitude band (32°N–40°N) or it might mean \"South\". It is therefore important to specify which convention is being used, e.g., by spelling out the hemisphere, \"North\" or \"South\", or using different symbols, such as − for south and + for north.\n\nThese formulae are truncated version of , which were originally derived by Johann Heinrich Louis Krüger in 1912. They are accurate to around a millimeter within 3,000 km of the central meridian. Concise commentaries for their derivation have also been given.\n\nThe WGS 84 spatial reference system describes Earth as an oblate spheroid along north-south axis with an equatorial radius of formula_1 km and an inverse flattening of formula_2. Let's take a point of latitude formula_3 and of longitude formula_4 and compute its UTM coordinates as well as point scale factor formula_5 and meridian convergence formula_6 using a reference meridian of longitude formula_7. By convention, in the northern hemisphere formula_8 km and in the southern hemisphere formula_9 km. By convention also formula_10 and formula_11 km.\n\nIn the following formulas, the distances are in kilometers. In advance let's compute some preliminary values:\n\nFirst let's compute some intermediate values:\n\nThe final formulae are:\n\nNote: Hemi=+1 for Northern, Hemi=-1 for Southern\n\nFirst let's compute some intermediate values:\n\nThe final formulae are:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2832671", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2832671", "title": "Vladimir Obruchev", "text": "Vladimir Obruchev\n\nVladimir Afanasyevich Obruchev (; , Klepenino near Rzhev, Tver Oblast, Russian Empire – June 19, 1956, Moscow, USSR) was a Russian and Soviet geologist who specialized in the study of Siberia and Central Asia. He was also one of the first Russian science fiction authors.\n\nVladimir Obruchev graduated from the Petersburg Mining Institute in 1886. His early work involved the study of gold-mining, which led him to come up with a theory explaining the origin of gold deposits in Siberia. He also gave advice on construction of the Central Asian and Trans-Siberian Railways and consulted Sven Hedin on his projected journey to Siberia. While working for the railway, Obruchev explored the Karakum Desert, the shores of the Amu Darya River, and the old riverbeds of the Uzbois. He also worked as a geologist on Lake Baikal, on the Lena River, and in gold fields near the Vitim.\n\nBetween 1892 and 1894, Obruchev \"was a member of the Grigory Potanin's expedition into ... Mongolia, [and] to the mountains of Nan Shan and Northern China.\" He also explored the Transbaikal area, Dzhungaria, and Altai. Largely as a result of his participation in this expedition he became interested in loess and made considerable contributions to the study of loess deposits.\n\nIn 1929, Obruchev was elected to the Academy of Sciences of the USSR.\n\nHaving spent half a century in exploring Siberia and Inner Asia, Obruchev summarized his findings with a three-volume monograph, \"The Geology of Siberia\" (1935–1938), followed by \"The History of Geological Exploration of Siberia\". Many of his works deal with the origins of loess in Central Asia and Siberia, ice formation and permafrost in Siberia, problems of Siberian tectonics, and Siberian goldfields. He also authored many popular scientific works, such as \"Formation of Mountains and Ore Deposits\" (1932), \"Fundamentals of Geology\" (1944), \"Field Geology\" (1927), \"Ore Deposits\" (1928–1929), and others. All together, Obruchev authored\n\nover a thousand scientific works, among which are a most extensive geological study of Siberia and a five-volume history of the geological exploration of Siberia, which have been awarded the Lenin Prize as well as the prizes and medals of several scientific societies.\nDuring 1954, he completed an extensive geographical study of Nan Shan Mountains in China based on his own and previous expeditions to the region and spent his last years working up a geological study of the mountains.\n\nIn his native country Obruchev is best known as the author of two perennially popular science fiction novels, \"Plutonia\" (\"Плутония\", 1915) and \"Sannikov Land\" (\"Земля Санникова\", 1924). Both of these stories, imitating the pattern of Arthur Conan Doyle's \"The Lost World\", depict in vivid detail the discovery of an isolated world of prehistoric animals in hitherto unexplored large islands north of Alaska or Siberia. In \"Plutonia\", dinosaurs and other Jurassic species are found in a fictional underground area north of Alaska. The descriptive passages are made more credible by Obruchev's extensive knowledge of paleontology. \"Sannikov Land\" is named for a phantom island of the Arctic Ocean, reported historically by Yakov Sannikov in 1811. Paul J. McAuley praised the novel in a 1999 column, saying \"It's true that the characters are indistinguishably wooden mouthpieces for the author's opinions, and the plot is pure pulp, but all this is redeemed by the novel's rigorous scientific sensibility.\"\n\nDuring the Soviet period, Obruchev attempted to emulate Edwardian models of boys' adventure stories in his novels \"Golddiggers in the Desert\" (1928) and \"In the Wilds of Central Asia\" (1951).\n\n\n\n\nTwo of his sons also became notable scientists:\n\n"}
{"id": "35990879", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35990879", "title": "Water supply in Miyakojima", "text": "Water supply in Miyakojima\n\nThe water supply in Miyakojima involves the history and development of the current water supply on Miyakojima, a small coral island with only one river, which is administered by Okinawa Prefecture of southwestern Japan.\n\nThe water supply in Miyakojima depends mainly on spring water or ground water, since there are almost no rivers. Although the yearly rainfall amounts to , 40% of it evaporates, 10% flows into the ground and 50% penetrates deep into the ground. Thus, there is almost no source of surface water.\n\nBeneath the soil of Miyakojima is a Ryukyu limestone layer which is porous, highly permeable, and does not preserve rainwater. Under the limestone layer is a Shimajiri mudstone layer of bedrock, which is an impermeable rock. In the local dialect, it is called \"kucha\". Tectonic movements accompanied by several faults have formed underground valleys, and groundwater flows along these valleys. The underground basins are divided into 22 valleys. Thus, 40 per cent of the abundant rainfall on Miyakojima penetrates the surface and quickly flows underground out into the ocean, unused. In addition, the strong subtropical sunshine evaporates as much as 50 per cent of the rainfall. The result is that only 10 per cent of the precipitation flows along the surface. Using natural water resources on Miyakojima has been quite difficult, owing to these natural conditions.\n\nIn the past, water in deep caves was used, as suggested by their language. Namely, the spring is called \"urigā\", which means \"going down into the cave and drawing water from the spring\".\n\nIt was usually several meters deep into the ground, in some cases, 20 meters by stepping down the stone steps. In the 13th century, excavation of wells started and in an early 18th-century document, 59 wells were recorded. Among them, Yamatsugā which was developed in 1720, was designated as an important site by the Hirara City (now Miyakojima City) education committee. It was a rich spring, and was used only by the government officials at the time. There was a guard posted at the spring. It was the duty of women to go down to the caves and draw water, and since the Meiji era, girls went down to the caves and draw water, as adult women had other duties. Due to the increase in population, it became a business to sell water from neighboring places.\n\nCollecting rainwater in large vases and tanks started in the Taishō era (1912–1925). The first water supply by manpower was made in 1924; men walked inside a tredmill 5 meters in diameter, which drew up a chain of water vases continuously from a well, 23 meters deep. The inventor was Chōgi Itosu, who sold the obtained water. A modern water supply plan was proposed in 1934 in Hirara, but in vain. In 1943, the Japanese Navy completed the first water supply from the Susakadā Well, and after 1945, US forces improved and used it.\n\nIn March 1951, a formal construction plan for a water supply from Susakadā to Sodeyama was made and the construction started on March 27, 1952. Many citizens participated in the construction with pleasure. Service started on May 4, 1953. In 1954, the construction of water supply started in Gusukube town and by 1977, water supply service covered the entire Miyakojima.\n\nIn May 1964, the US government established the Miyakojima water supply agency, but it was abolished by the inhabitants. On July 1, 1965, a Miyakojima water supply and sewage organization was established Due to the increase in the demand of water, investigations on the situation of ground water were started in 1962. On July 15, 1965, Miyakojima ground water control regulations were determined; which were renewed on May 23, 1987. In 1973, there was a considerable drought in Miyakojima; leading to the investigation for new water sources. Projects for an underground dam and the conversion of Yonaha Bay into a fresh water lake were considered. The Yonaha Bay project met an opposition campaign in 1981 and was cancelled in 1983. The underground dam project continued and the Fukuzato underground dam and Sunakawa underground dam were completed in 1998. In 1993, rainfall dropped to two-thirds of the annual mean. Water restrictions continued from January 21 to April 1.\n\nThere are springs in the caves such as Yamatu-gā, Susakadā, Bisa-gā, Bora-gā and Kubaka-gā. There is only one river flowing on the surface, Sakida-gā, only long. The largest spring, called Susakadā, covered all areas of Miyakojima; but after the drought of 1971, the water source of Sodeyama was developed. After the drought of 1993, water sources of Ōno, Nyātsu, Sokohara were developed. There are \"Sodeyama Purification Plant\" and \"Kajidō Purification Plant\", and service reservoirs are at Hisamatsu, Shijō, Karimata and Bora. Two underground reservoirs were completed in 1989 in Susakadā, both 40,000 cubic meters. The water in Miyakojima is hard water, which is unsatisfactory both in taste and in the handling of metallic tableware. In 1999, adjustments to the pH were started at Sodeyama with water softening using lime softening in a pellet-reactor. Strict surveillance of the quality of the water supply is being done to prevent contamination through infiltration by fertilizers and other sources of local drainage.\n\n"}
{"id": "43030120", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43030120", "title": "Weddell Polynya", "text": "Weddell Polynya\n\nThe Weddell Polynya, or Weddell Sea Polynya, is a polynya or irregular area of open water surrounded by sea ice in the Weddell Sea of the Southern Ocean off Antarctica and near the Maud Rise. \n\nThe size of New Zealand, it re-occurred each winter between 1974 and 1976. These were the first three austral winters observed by the Nimbus-5 Electrically Scanning Microwave Radiometer (ESMR).. From 1976 to 2015 this polynya was rarely observed. The polynya reoccurred in 2016, and has since appeared in 2017. The 2010s occurrence has been smaller than the 1970s occurrence, being about the size of Maine in 2017, or roughly .\n\nSince the 1970s, the polar Southern Ocean south of the Antarctic Circumpolar Current has freshened and stratified, likely a result of anthropogenic climate change. Such stratification may be responsible for suppressing the return of the Weddell Sea polynya.\n\nThe presence of polynyas in McMurdo Sound provides an ice-free area where penguins can feed, so is important for the survival of the Cape Royds penguin colony.\n\n"}
{"id": "52924170", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52924170", "title": "What Remains of Edith Finch", "text": "What Remains of Edith Finch\n\nWhat Remains of Edith Finch is a adventure game developed by Giant Sparrow and published by Annapurna Interactive for Microsoft Windows, PlayStation 4 and Xbox One in 2017. \n\nThe game is centered around the character of Edith Finch, the last in the Finch family line which have a perceived curse that causes all but one member of each generation to die in unusual ways. Edith has returned to her family's home off the coast of Washington state following her mother's death to explore the house they had hastily abandoned years before. She learns about her relatives and their own deaths by visiting their bedrooms, sealed off and treated as shrines to them, with each death played out in a short gameplay sequence to the player. The game is presented as an anthology of these mini-experiences, wrapped in the dramatic retelling of the family's history and fate through Edith's narration.\n\n\"What Remains of Edith Finch\" was met with very positive reception from critics, who praised its story and presentation, and is considered an example of video games as an art form. It won British Academy Games Award for Best Game 2017, and won the Best Narrative category at both the 2018 Game Developers Choice Awards and The Game Awards 2017, among other awards and nominations.\n\nThe game is a first-person exploration game, as the player explores the Finch house and surrounding wilderness through a linear series of rooms, footpaths and secret crawlspaces. Players are guided through the house by expository voice narration from Edith Finch herself, her words visually displayed to the player as part of the scene in a manner to direct the player's attention. Through the house they encounter a series of memorials and shrines dedicated to deceased relatives. Players make progress by interacting with these shrines and experiencing the death of these family members (or embellished or fictionalized accounts thereof) in various forms, including flip books, cutscenes, and first-person minigames.\n\nIn the present, the player-character takes a ferry to Orcas Island off the coast of Washington state with the journal of Edith Finch in their hands. As they wait, they read through the journal that describes Edith Finch Jr.'s last visit to her family's home on the island in 2016. \n\nEdith's writings explain that she is from the latest generation of the Finch family which has a perceived family curse going back at least five generations, in that all but one of the children of that generation die from unusual causes, leaving a sole child to continue the family. Her great-great-grandfather Odin, after losing his wife and their newborn child, tried to escape the curse by moving from Norway to the United States with his remaining daughter Edith \"Edie\" and her family, husband Sven and daughter Molly, in 1937. Odin insisted on bringing their home with them, tethered to their ship, but just off the shore of Orcas, high tidal waves capsized the house, and Odin drowned. The remaining family was safe, and they built a new home on Orcas, overlooking the ocean and within sight of the original house wreckage, while continuing to grow their family, giving birth to Barbara, twin brothers Calvin and Sam, and Walter. Edie also insisted they build a graveyard for their family nearby.\n\nWhile the family enjoyed some normalcy for a while, with Edie believing they have avoided the curse, calamity soon hit. Molly died as a ten-year-old after ingesting toxic holly berries. Barbara was killed during an unsolved home invasion, and Walter became traumatized by her death, moving into a secret bunker below the house. Calvin died after falling off a rope swing into the ocean. Sven was killed while trying to construct a dragon-themed slide onto the house. Edie decided that to memorialize each death, they would make each of their bedrooms a shrine to them, and she would leave writings about their death, typically exaggerating the details to make the death seem more fantastical than it really was. For example, Edie described Sven's death as having died while fighting a dragon.\n\nSam eventually married Kay Carlisle, and they had their set of children, Dawn, Gus, and Gregory. Edie refused to repurpose the bedrooms in the Finch home, and instead they constructed additional stories atop the home for Sam and his family to move into. Gregory, as an infant, drowned in a bathtub when Kay became distracted from a call from Sam. Sam and Kay ended up divorcing. Sam married another woman but during the ceremony, Gus was killed by a fallen totem statue knocked over by a storm. Sam later was killed while on a hunting trip with Dawn, knocked off a cliff by a deer.\n\nOnce old enough, Dawn traveled to do humanitarian work in India where she met Sanjay Kumar, and the two married and had three children, Lewis, Milton, and Edith Jr. Following Sanjay's death, Dawn brought her family back to the Finch home. Milton, an aspiring artist, went missing, and caused Dawn to become paranoid. Dawn sealed off each of the memorial bedrooms from the outside, not wanting the other children learning of their past, though Edie insisted they leave a peephole in each door so that her great-grandchildren can know the family's history. Walter, who had been forgotten by all but Edie, decided to come out from the bunker via a new tunnel, but ended up being run over by a train, killing him. \n\nLewis committed suicide in 2010, following an episode of derealization caused by drug withdrawal. On the night following his funeral, Dawn decided that the remaining Finches, herself, Edie, and Edith, must leave the home, but Edie refused. As Dawn and Edie argued, Edith went to the home's library to find Edie's own journal of their family history. Before she could read it, Dawn tore the journal from her hands against Edie's wishes. Dawn and Edith left immediately that night, leaving all their belongings behind and having made arrangements for a nursing home to pick up Edie the next day. However, by the time the nursing home's van arrived, Edie had gone missing.\n\nRoughly six years later, Dawn eventually succumbed to an illness. In her will, she left Edith a key to the Finch home, leading Edith to travel back there, and explore the house while writing her journal. Edith discovered the key helped to unlock several secret passages between each of the sealed-off bedrooms, which she believes were constructed by Edie in the house's original design, and discovered by Milton which led to him to find a way to escape the family curse. Edith wrote her own thoughts and eulogies to the departed family in her journal. She eventually reached her own old bedroom, and wrote to her yet-born child that she carried, hoping her journal will help them understand their family's lineage.\n\nIn the present, the player-character is revealed to be Edith's son Christopher and the sole-surviving Finch, Edith having died from complications at childbirth. Debarking the ferry, he travels to the Finch home and places flowers at the newly-constructed gravestone for Edith.\n\n\"What Remains of Edith Finch\" is the second game developed by the team at Giant Sparrow, led by creative director Ian Dallas, with their debut effort being the BAFTA-award-winning \"The Unfinished Swan\". The concept of the game grew out from trying to create something sublime, as described by Dallas, \"an interactive experience that evokes what it feels like to have a moment of finding something beautiful, yet overwhelming\". Dallas embodied this concept by using his own experience as a scuba diver while he had lived in Washington State, and seeing the ocean fall off into darkness into the distance. The game initially was based on this scuba diving approach, but this created a number of problems with conveying narrative. While the game was in this state, they came up with the idea of using floating text captions of the narrative to be seen by the player, which remained as a key gameplay element through the game's ongoing changes. The team struggled on the diver idea until Dallas came up with the idea of a shark falling into a forest with a child uttering the line \"and suddenly I was a shark\", which sparked the idea of moving into more strange and unnatural scenarios; this specific one would eventually become the mini-experience for Molly, the first bedroom the player explores in the game. While the Molly scenario was fleshed out further, the team broke out to develop other scenarios that captured the same sense, giving the player something interesting to watch or do but knowing that their characters were about to die, creating the type of experience they wanted to evoke.\nTo link these mini-experiences, they had to come up with a framing device. Initially, they considered a scenario similar to \"The Canterbury Tales\" but set in a modern-day high school, but soon recognized that placing these deaths in context of a cursed family would work better, forming an anthology work like \"The Twilight Zone\", while borrowing concepts from the novel \"One Hundred Years of Solitude\" which similarly involved the overlapping stories of various family members. With this approach set, the team then only had to determine the genealogical nature of this family and how the house should be styled. For the house itself, Dallas stated they had three words they worked from, sublime, intimate and murky. Their goal was to make the house itself feel like \"a natural force. It begins to look almost like the bark of a tree; something that has an order to it, but it’s too chaotic for us to be able to follow.\" While they had designed all the bedrooms in roughly the same order the player experienced them in the game, it was not until the second-to-last bedroom, that of Lewis who had been into marijuana use, that they realized that these bedrooms can be used to say much more about each family member by how they were decorated. Lewis' had been heavily decorated with posted and other items that indicated his drug addiction, and the team realized this shared a lot about his character they did not have to communicate via narration or the death sequence. Major changes were made to all the previous bedrooms to provide similar expository elements for each character over the last few months of release.\nThe team also recognized that from some of these mini-experiences they created, they wanted to leave them open-ended as to exactly what happened, following the convention of weird fiction to leave the player questioned if the mini-experiences they had played through were grounded in reality or not. They did not want to make a horror game, where their purpose would be to intentionally scare the player, but wanted to borrow concepts common in the horror genre, such as Lovecraftian elements. The game had started out titled \"The Nightmares of Edith Finch\", and its greenlight trailer has a spookier nature to it, such as the protagonist exploring the house mostly in the dark with a flashlight, but the team eventually backed off on these elements to leave the more eerie elements, remaining the game to its final title. The game's ending was considered the most difficult part for the team, according to Dallas, as they did not know if they should end the game on a mini-experience that elevated the sense of unease from previous ones. Eventually, they opted to go with something completely different, a closure on the story that was intended to give time for the player to reflect on what they had just played through. Dallas credits suggestions made by Dino Patti of Playdead and Jenova Chen of thatgamecompany, following a playtest of the game, of inspiring the pregnancy and childbirth facets to close out the story after all the death that they had experienced. In an unusual move, the player is able to look down at Edith's body and see her belly, hinting about her pregnancy. Though Dallas had not wanted to have the player see parts of the character's body, their tech artist Chelsea Hash insisted on keeping this in, which Dallas found later to be a pleasant surprise for players that discovered this on their own.\n\nThe game had been in development since at least 2013, when Giant Sparrow partner with Sony Computer Entertainment, and was first announced with an on-stage trailer at the 2014 PlayStation Experience event as a title to be published by SCE Santa Monica Studio, with a subsequent trailer released prior to E3 2015. In the interim, Sony started to wane on its support for independently-developed video games, and Santa Monica Studios dropped the title from its lineup. However, several of those that had been at Santa Monica Studios and working with Giant Sparrow on a daily basis for \"What Remains of Edith Finch\" left the studio to form Annapurna Interactive, which then became the game's new publisher. Annapurna relaxed some of the deadlines that Sony had originally had for the title, allowing Giant Sparrow to keep and refine some of the more significant mini-experiences they created that they would have otherwise had to cut under a tighter schedule. These included Gregory's, his drowning sequence set to \"The Waltz of the Flowers\" from \"The Nutcracker\" by Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky, and Lewis', a mini-adventure game taking place in Lewis' mind while at the same time decapitating fish at a cannery that was inspired by \"The Coronation of Mr. Thomas Shap\" from \"The Book of Wonder\". Gregory's story was particularly one of concern since it involved the death of an infant, which raised concerns with their publisher. To help alleviate these, Giant Sparrow specifically brought in parents to help playtest as to make sure the story handled the topic in a sensitive manner.\n\nOne of the most-changed stories was Walter's. Originally, once in the bunker, Walter would have experienced still people that moved when he looked away, similar to \"Doctor Who\"s Weeping Angels or \"The Prisoner\", and then would imaging himself living on a model trainset where an invisible hand would move pieces around on the set. Both aspects were to represent the passage of time for the decades Walter lived there, and out of paranoia, Walter would then escape through the tunnel and to his demise. This was ultimately trimmed down to showing Walter going through the same routine each day, eating peaches from a can, until one day he decides to escape. Another scrapped idea for the game was to bring in \"Weird Al\" Yankovic to compose a song about Edie. Inspired by the story of Harry R. Truman, a man that had stubbornly refused to leave his home prior to the eruption of Mount St. Helens, the team had envisioned a scenario that Edie would have also refused to leave her family home despite the threat of a nearby forest fire sometime in the 1980s. With this concept, her story made national news and made her a national icon which, in the timeline, Yankovic would have made a song about her that would have been included as part of Edie's story. However, this idea came too late in the development without enough time to follow up on it.\n\nComposer Jeff Russo, whose previous works include the soundtracks to the \"Fargo\" TV series, \"The Night Of\", and \"Power\", composed the soundtrack for \"What Remains of Edith Finch\". For Barbara's sequence, which is played out in the pages of a comic book styled after \"Tales from the Crypt\", Dallas had Rosso to try to create a soundtrack similar to the theme from John Carpenter's \"Halloween\". Dallas had considered asking Carpenter to narrate this section, but at the time, the video game voice actor strike was ongoing, making this impossible, but Carpenter did agree to license the use of the \"Halloween\" theme for this sequence.\n\n\"What Remains of Edith Finch\" received \"generally positive\" reviews, according to video game review aggregator Metacritic.\n\n\"Destructoid\"s Brett Makedonski scored the game a 9/10 with the consensus \"A hallmark of excellence. There may be flaws, but they are negligible and won't cause massive damage.\"\n\nMarty Sliva's 8.8/10 score on IGN stated that \"\"What Remains of Edith Finch\" is a gorgeous experience and one of the finest magical-realism stories in all of games.\"\nAndy Chalk's gave a score of 91 out of 100 on \"PC Gamer\" and said it was \"Touching, sad, and brilliant; a story worth forgiving the limited interactivity to experience.\"\n\nJosh Harmon of EGMNow awarded it 7/10, stating that \"\"Edith Finch\" is \"a brilliant accomplishment. It's also a game that repeatedly fails to live up to its potential in serious, heartbreaking ways. Until now, I'd never realized it was possible to be both at the same time.\"\n\nGriffin Vacheron from Game Revolution gave the game a score of 3.5 stars out of 5, saying that \"If you're more like me, though, and deviate from the assessment of tragic events as an inherently higher form, then you may find the Finch's tale doesn't activate your almonds as much as it probably should. Still, as a spooky, logical evolution of the Gone Homes and Firewatches of the world, with an impressive short-story style to boot, \"What Remains of Edith Finch\" is ultimately worth your time if its premise grabs you.\"\n\n\"In \"What Remains of Edith Finch\", death is a certainty and life is the surprise. Its stories are enchanting, despite their unhappy ends. I was sad I never had the chance to know the Finches while they were alive, but thankful for the opportunity, however brief, to learn a bit about them. The final farewell left me crying, but \"What Remains of Edith Finch\" is, without doubt, love,\" was Susan Arendt's conclusion on \"Polygon\" with a score of 9/10.\n\nColm Ahern's score of 9/10 on VideoGamer.com said that \"First-person, narrative-driven games generally follow a pattern. What Remains of Edith Finch plays with those established conventions to create a beautiful story that breaks your heart, while making you smile just as much. A triumph in the genre.\"\n\n\"Eurogamer\" ranked the game second on their list of the \"Top 50 Games of 2017\", while \"GamesRadar+\" ranked it fifth on their list of the 25 Best Games of 2017. In \"Game Informer\"s Reader's Choice Best of 2017 Awards, the game came at fourth place for \"Best Adventure Game\" with just 10% of the votes, about 4% behind \"\". The same website also gave it the award of \"Best Adventure Game\" in their Best of 2017 Awards, and of \"Best Narrative\" and \"Adventure Game of the Year\" in their 2017 Adventure Game of the Year Awards. EGMNow ranked the game at #25 in their list of the 25 Best Games of 2017, while \"Polygon\" ranked it 13th on their list of the 50 best games of 2017.\n\nThe game won the award for \"Best Story\" in \"PC Gamer\"s 2017 Game of the Year Awards, and was nominated for \"Game of the Year\". It was also nominated for \"Best Xbox One Game\" in \"Destructoid\"s Game of the Year Awards 2017; for \"Best Adventure Game\" and \"Best Story\" in IGN's Best of 2017 Awards; and for \"Best Moment or Sequence\" (Cannery Sequence) in Giant Bomb's 2017 Game of the Year Awards.\n\n"}
{"id": "6747010", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6747010", "title": "Women's Environment &amp; Development Organization", "text": "Women's Environment &amp; Development Organization\n\nThe Women's Environment & Development Organization (WEDO) is an international non-governmental organization based in New York City, U.S. that advocates women's equality in global policy. It was founded in 1990 by Bella Abzug and Mim Kelber to take action in the United Nations and other international policymaking forums. Its early successes included achieving gender equality in the final documents of Agenda 21 and the Rio Declaration. In 2006, the organization was named as an international Champion of the Earth by the United Nations Environment Programme. The mission of WEDO is to ensure that women's rights, the social, economic and environmental justice, and sustainable development principles (and the links between them) are invested at the heart of global/national policies, the programs initiated and practices established. The way that WEDO is approaching these issues of environmental change is by addressing those complex environmental problems by incorporating women's humans rights to secure sustainable development for future generations. There are two main goals of the Women's Environment and Development Organization: to make sure women feel empowered enough to claim their rights as advocates and leaders (especially on certain problems related to the environment) and to develop sustainable development policies and plans that are gender-responsive and socially just and are implemented in a way that is effective.\n\nWEDO and the Center for Women's Global Leadership launched the Gender Equality Architecture Reform (GEAR) Campaign in February 2008 to mobilize women's groups and allies to push for the adoption of the new UN entity for gender equality and women's empowerment. The Center for Women's Global Leadership is a non-governmental organization that works on policy and advocacy and to facilitate women's leadership worldwide. To be able to advocate for women in the UN, together WEDO and the Center for Women's Global Leadership brought 50 activists together from all around the world to develop comprehensive strategies to gain the UN's approval of a fully resourced women's entity in the UN.\n\nWEDO focuses its work in three programmatic areas: Gender & Governance, Sustainable Development, and Economic & Social Justice. Priority projects include MisFortune500.org, climate change advocacy, and UN Reform.\n\nThere is agreement that climate change does threaten to set back the efforts that have taken decades to put in place, placing least developed countries and vulnerable populations in an even more precarious position. The IPCC AR5 concluded with more than 95% certainty, that humans have caused most of the climate change since the 1950s. Climate change erodes human freedom and limits choice. Although the impact of climate change affects everyone, only certain area will feel the most impact from this occurring. Those with the fewest resources, be it countries or individuals, will feel the impact of the changes the most and those that are wealthy will reap the benefits of a low-carbon society as the economy shifts towards that route. There is a lot of intersectionality when thinking of climate policy and climate changes. Climate change impacts solutions and encompasses a large diversity of experiences due to age, ethnicity, class, and especially, gender. Women, in comparison to men, have limited voices, more restricted rights, and limited access to resources.\n\nWEDO is calling for a global pathway to save the planet, a commitment to stay away from a fossil fuel based economy, have adequate climate finance for developing countries, have gender quality respected in all climate action, phase-out harmful technologies, and have women's leadership in all aspects of the decision-making.\n\nSustainable cities are safe, ensure access to resources, and provide economic opportunities for all. Inclusive actions at a local level that promotes gender equality and women's rights in a sustainable development frame for all. WEDO also wants to ensure a capacity building of city officials on women's humans rights and policy design at a local level, want a rights-based framework, and macroeconomic policies to increase equity through progressive tax reforms.\n\nWEDO believes that sustainable development and gender equality should be pursued to address gender-differentiated needs- to make sure transportation, infrastructure, policy development, and environmental sustainability respond to everyone at every stage in their lives.\n\nDisaster risk reduction (DRR) is to reduce disasters and their risks. It wants to build resilient people, men and women alike, and reduce vulnerability and build on the strengths and knowledge of people. Gender roles limit women and girls with resilience for themselves and their families, while the protection mechanisms and law can affect them the most. WEDO wants gender analysis (use of gender-specific data to understand disaster risk), allocation of resources (gender-responsive research and training), understanding and action (protecting women's rights throughout the entire process), accountability (private sector investments and funding), and funding to go directly to women's organizations.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27958897", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27958897", "title": "Women-only bank", "text": "Women-only bank\n\nA women-only bank is a financial institution catering exclusively to women.\n\nIn 2001, Dubai Islamic Bank opened a women-only bank branch.\n\nIran opened such a bank in Mashhad on June 7, 2010. The bank's director stated, \"the aim is not sex segregation but respect for women.\" The government-owned bank is Bank Melli.\n\nIn Saudi Arabia, most banks have some sort of women-only branch within the main branch. Not necessarily all branches and banks have this. Albeit the main branch can usually be accessed by both men and women.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24894563", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24894563", "title": "World Wide Fund for Nature", "text": "World Wide Fund for Nature\n\nThe World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF) is an international non-governmental organization founded in 1961, working in the field of the wilderness preservation, and the reduction of human impact on the environment. It was formerly named the World Wildlife Fund, which remains its official name in Canada and the United States. The Living Planet Report is published every two years by WWF since 1998; it is based on a Living Planet Index and ecological footprint calculation. \n\nIt is the world's largest conservation organization with over five million supporters worldwide, working in more than 100 countries, supporting around 1,300 conservation and environmental projects. They have invested over $1 billion in more than 12,000 conservation initiatives since 1995. WWF is a foundation, with 55% of funding from individuals and bequests, 19% from government sources (such as the World Bank, DFID, USAID) and 8% from corporations in 2014.\n\nThe group aims to \"stop the degradation of the planet’s natural environment and to build a future in which humans live in harmony with nature.\" Currently, their work is organized around these six areas: food, climate, freshwater, wildlife, forests, and oceans.\n\nThe Conservation Foundation, a precursor to WWF, was founded in 1948 by Fairfield Osborn as an affiliate of the New York Zoological Society (today known as the Wildlife Conservation Society) with an aim of protecting the world's natural resources. The advisory council included leading scientists such as Charles Sutherland Elton, G. Evelyn Hutchinson, Aldo Leopold, Carl Sauer, and Paul Sears. It supported much of the scientific work cited by Rachel Carson's \"Silent Spring\", including that of John L. George, Roger Hale, Robert Rudd, and George Woodwell. \n\nDutch Prince Bernhard of Lippe-Biesterfeld helped found the World Wildlife Fund, becoming its first President in 1961, and in 1970 established the WWF's financial endowment \"\". He resigned his post after being involved in the Lockheed Bribery Scandal.\n\nIn 1963, the Foundation held a conference and published a major report warning of anthropogenic global warming, written by Noel Eichhorn based on the work of Frank Fraser Darling (then foundation vice president), Edward Deevey, Erik Eriksson, Charles Keeling, Gilbert Plass, Lionel Walford, and William Garnett.\n\nIn 1990, the Conservation Foundation was merged into WWF, after becoming an affiliate of WWF in 1985, when it became a distinct legal entity but with the same staff and board. The organization now known as the Conservation Foundation in the United States is the former Forest Foundation of DuPage County.\n\nThe idea for a fund on behalf of endangered animals was officially proposed by Victor Stolan to Sir Julian Huxley in response to articles he published in the British newspaper \"The Observer\". This proposal led Huxley to put Stolan in contact with Max Nicholson, a person who had had thirty years experience of linking progressive intellectuals with big business interests through the Political and Economic Planning think tank. Nicholson thought up the name of the organization. WWF was conceived on 29 April 1961, under the name of \"World Wildlife Fund\", and its first office was opened on 11 September that same year in Morges, Switzerland. WWF was conceived to act as a funding institution for existing conservation groups such as the International Union for the Conservation of Nature and Natural Resources and The Conservation Foundation. Godfrey A. Rockefeller also played an important role in its creation, assembling the first staff. Its establishment was marked with the signing of the \"Morges Manifesto\", the founding document that sets out the fund's commitment to assisting worthy organizations struggling to save the world's wildlife:\n\nWWF has set up offices and operations around the world. It originally worked by fundraising and providing grants to existing non-governmental organizations, based on the best-available scientific knowledge and with an initial focus on the protection of endangered species. As more resources became available, its operations expanded into other areas such as the preservation of biological diversity, sustainable use of natural resources, the reduction of pollution, and climate change. The organization also began to run its own conservation projects and campaigns, and by the 1980s started to take a more strategic approach to its conservation activities.\n\nIn 1986, the organization changed its name to \"World Wide Fund for Nature\", while retaining the WWF initials. However, it continued at that time to operate under the original name in the United States and Canada.\n\nThat year was the 25th anniversary of WWF's foundation, an event marked by a gathering in Assisi, Italy to which the organization's International President HRH Prince Philip, the Duke of Edinburgh, invited religious authorities representing Buddhism, Christianity, Hinduism, Islam and Judaism. These leaders produced The Assisi Declarations, theological statements showing the spiritual relationship between their followers and nature that triggered a growth in the engagement of those religions with conservation around the world.\n\nIn the 1990s, WWF revised its mission statement to:\nWWF scientists and many others identified 238 ecoregions that represent the world's most biologically outstanding terrestrial, freshwater and marine habitats, based on a worldwide biodiversity analysis which the organization says was the first of its kind. In the early 2000s (decade), its work was focused on a subset of these ecoregions, in the areas of forest, freshwater and marine habitat conservation, endangered species conservation, climate change, and the elimination of the most toxic chemicals.\nIn 1996, the organization obtained general consultative status from UNESCO.\n\nWWF's giant panda logo originated from a panda named Chi Chi that had been transferred from Beijing Zoo to London Zoo in 1958, three years before WWF became established. Being famous as the only panda residing in the Western world at that time, its uniquely recognisable physical features and status as an endangered species were seen as ideal to serve the organization's need for a strong recognisable symbol that would overcome all language barriers. The organization also needed an animal that would have an impact in black and white printing. The logo was then designed by Sir Peter Scott from preliminary sketches by Gerald Watterson, a Scottish naturalist. The logo was slightly simplified and made more geometric in 1978, and was revised significantly again in 1986, at the time that the organization changed its name, with the new version featuring solid black shapes for eyes. In 2000 a change was made to the font used for the initials \"WWF\" in the logo.\n\nWWF's strategy for achieving its mission specifically concentrates on restoring populations of 36 species (species or species groups that are important for their ecosystem or to people, including elephants, tunas, whales, dolphins and porpoises), and ecological footprint in 6 areas (carbon emissions, cropland, grazing land, fishing, forestry and water).\n\nThe organization also works on a number of global issues driving biodiversity loss and unsustainable use of natural resources, including finance, business practices, laws, and consumption choices. Local offices also work on national or regional issues.\n\nWWF works with a large number of different groups to achieve its goals, including other NGOs, governments, business, investment banks, scientists, fishermen, farmers and local communities. It also undertakes public campaigns to influence decision makers, and seeks to educate people on how to live in a more environmentally friendly manner.It urges people to donate funds to protect the environment. The donors can also choose to receive gifts in return.\n\nWWF publishes the \"Living Planet Index\" in collaboration with the Zoological Society of London. Along with ecological footprint calculations, the \"Index\" is used to produce a bi-yearly \"Living Planet Report\" giving an overview of the impact of human activity on the world.\n\nThe organization also regularly publishes reports, fact sheets and other documents on issues related to its work, to raise awareness and provide information to policy and decision makers.\n\nPolicies of the WWF are made by board members elected for three-year terms. An Executive Team guides and develops WWF's strategy. There is also a National Council which stands as an advisory group to the board and a team of scientists and experts in conservation who research for WWF.\n\nNational and international law plays an important role in determining how habitats and resources are managed and used. Laws and regulations become one of the organization’s global priorities.\n\nThe WWF has been opposed to the extraction of oil from the Canadian tar sands and has campaigned on this matter. Between 2008 and 2010 the WWF worked with The Co-operative Group, the UK's largest consumer co-operative to publish reports which concluded that: (1) exploiting the Canadian tar sands to their full potential would be sufficient to bring about what they described as 'runaway climate change; (2) carbon capture and storage (CCS) technology cannot be used to reduce the release of carbon dioxide into the atmosphere to a level comparable to that of other methods of oil extraction; (3) the $379 billion which is expected to be spent extracting oil from tar sands could be better spent on research and development in renewable energy technology; and (4) the expansion of tar sands extraction poses a serious threat to the caribou in Alberta .\n\nThe organization convinces and helps governments and other political bodies to adopt, enforce, strengthen and/or change policies, guidelines and laws that affect biodiversity and natural resource use. It also ensures government consent and/or keeps their commitment to international instruments relating to the protection of biodiversity and natural resources.\n\nIn 2012, David Nussbaum, Chief Executive of WWF-UK, spoke out against the way shale gas is used in the UK, saying: \"...the Government must reaffirm its commitment to tackling climate change and prioritise renewables and energy efficiency.\"\n\nWWF has been accused by the campaigner Corporate Watch of being too close to business to campaign objectively. WWF claims partnering with corporations such as Coca-Cola, Lafarge, Carlos Slim's and IKEA will reduce their effect on the environment. WWF received €56 million (US$80 million) from corporations in 2010 (an 8% increase in support from corporations compared to 2009), accounting for 11% of total revenue for the year.\n\nIn 1988, Prince Bernhard, previously WWF's first President, sold paintings for GBP 700,000 to raise money for the World Wildlife Fund. The money was deposited in a Swiss WWF bank account. In 1989, Charles de Haes, then WWF Director-General, transferred GBP 500,000 back to Bernhard for what he (de Haes) called a \"private project\". It was then revealed, in 1991, that Prince Bernhard had used the money to hire KAS International, owned by SAS founder David Stirling, for an operation called Project \"Lock\" during which mercenaries (mostly British) fought poachers in nature reserves.\n\nIn June 2009, Touch Seang Tana, chairman of Cambodia's Commission for Conservation and Development of the Mekong River Dolphins Eco-tourism Zone, argued that the WWF had misrepresented the danger of extinction of the Mekong dolphin to boost fundraising. The report stated that the deaths were caused by a bacterial disease that became fatal due to environmental contaminants suppressing the dolphins' immune systems. He called the report unscientific and harmful to the Cambodian government and threatened the WWF's Cambodian branch with suspension unless they met with him to discuss his claims. Touch Seang Tana later said he would not press charges of supplying false information and would not make any attempt to prevent WWF from continuing its work in Cambodia, but advised WWF to adequately explain its findings and check with the commission before publishing another report. After this, in January 2012, Touch Seang Tana signed the \"Kratie Declaration on the Conservation of the Mekong River Irrawaddy Dolphin\" along with WWF and the Cambodian Fisheries Administration, an agreement binding the parties to work together on a \"roadmap\" addressing dolphin conservation in the Mekong River.\n\nIn 2012, German investigative journalist Wilfried Huissmann published a book called \"The Silence of the Pandas\". It became a bestseller in Germany, but was banned from Britain until 2014, when it was released under the title of \"Pandaleaks\", after a series of injunctions and court orders. The book criticizes WWF for its supposed involvement with corporations that are responsible for large-scale destruction of the environment, such as Coca-Cola, and gives details into the existence of the secret 1001 Club, whose members, Huismann claims, continue to have an unhealthy influence on WWF's policy making. However, WWF has sought to deny the allegations made against it.\n\nThe German public television ARD aired a documentary on 22 June 2011 that claimed to show how the WWF cooperates with corporations such as Monsanto, providing sustainability certification in exchange for donations– essentially greenwashing. WWF has denied the allegations. By encouraging high-impact eco-tourism, the program alleges that WWF contributes to the destruction of habitat and species it claims to protect. WWF-India is not active at the tiger reserve given as the example, but it is active elsewhere seeking to limit adverse tourism effects and better sharing of tourism benefits to local communities. The program also alleges WWF certified a palm oil plantation operated by Wilmar International, a Singaporean company, on the Indonesian island of Borneo, even though the establishment of the plantation led to the destruction of over 14,000 hectares of rainforest. Only 80 hectares were ultimately conserved, the ARD documentary claims. According to the programme, two orangutans live on the conserved land, but have very slim chances of survival because no fruit trees remain and the habitat is too small to sustain them. To survive, they steal palm nuts from the neighbouring plantation, thereby risking being shot by plantation workers. WWF notes that the plantation filmed is PT Rimba Harapan Sakti, which has not been certified as a sustainable producer by the Round Table on Sustainable Palm Oil.\n\nThe President of Honor of WWF in Spain used to be King Juan Carlos I, who has been a known hunting enthusiast. In 1962, when he was 24, he was invited by the German Baron Werner von Alvensleben to a hunt in Mozambique. Since then, the king has taken part in hunting forays in Africa and Eastern Europe. In October 2004, he was a member of a hunt in Romania that killed a wolf and nine brown bears, including one that was pregnant, according to the Romanian newspaper Romania Libera. He was also accused by a Russian official of killing a bear called Mitrofan, supposedly after giving vodka to the animal, in an episode that sparked controversy in Spain, although the claim was never proven. In the same year, according to \"The Guardian\", the Polish government allowed him to kill a European bison in Białowieża Forest, even though it is an endangered species. Further controversy arose in April 2012 when the king's participation in an elephant hunt in Botswana was discovered only after he returned to Spain on an emergency flight after tripping over a step and fracturing his hip. Many Spanish environmental groups and leftist parties criticized the monarch's hobby, and the WWF stripped him of the honorary position in July 2012, in an extraordinary assembly by 94% of the votes of the members.\n\nPrince Charles, the UK head of the WWF, has stated that he enjoys hunting. He is believed, however, to adhere to legal British traditional hunting and speaks out against hunting endangered species.\n\nIn the early 1970s, Prince Bernhard, Prince Philip, Duke of Edinburgh and a few associates set up to handle the WWF's administration and fund-raising. 1001 members each contributed $10,000 to the trust. \n\nIn 2000, the World Wide Fund for Nature sued the World Wrestling Federation (now named WWE) for unfair trade practices. Both parties had shared the initials \"WWF\" since 1979. The conservation organization claimed that the professional wrestling company had violated a 1994 agreement regarding international use of the WWF initials.\n\nOn 10 August 2001, a UK court ruled in favour of the World Wide Fund for Nature. The World Wrestling Federation filed an appeal in October 2001. However, on May 10, 2002, the World Wrestling Federation changed its Web address from \"WWF.com\" to \"WWE.com\", and replaced every \"WWF\" reference on the existing site with \"WWE\", as a prelude to changing the company's name to \"World Wrestling Entertainment.\" Its stock ticker also switched from WWF to WWE.\n\nThe wrestling organization's abandonment of the \"WWF\" initialism did not end the two organizations' legal conflict. Later in 2002, the World Wide Fund for Nature petitioned the court for $360 million in damages, but was not successful. A subsequent request to overturn by the World Wide Fund for Nature was dismissed by the British Court of Appeal on June 28, 2007. In 2003, World Wrestling Entertainment won a limited decision which permitted them to continue marketing certain pre-existing products with the abandoned WWF logo. However, WWE was mandated to issue newly branded merchandise such as apparel, action figures, video games, and DVDs with the \"WWE\" initials. Additionally, the court order required the company to remove both auditory and visual references to \"WWF\" in its library of video footage outside the United Kingdom.\n\nStarting with the 1,000th episode of \"Raw\" in July 2012, the WWF \"scratch\" logo is no longer censored in archival footage. In addition, the WWF initials are no longer censored when spoken or when written in plain text in archival footage. In exchange, WWE is no longer permitted to use the WWF initials or logo in any new, original footage, packaging, or advertising, with any old-school logos for retro-themed programming now using a modification of the original WWF logo without the F.\n\n\"No One's Gonna Change Our World\" was a charity album released in 1969, for the benefit of the WWF.\n\nPeter Rose and Anne Conlon are music theatre writers, well known for their environmental musicals for children, who were commissioned by WWF-UK to write several environmental musicals as part of an education plan. Some were narrated by David Attenborough, and broadcast on television in numerous countries.\n\nThe British pop group S Club 7 were ambassadors for WWF-UK during their time together as a band (1999-2003). Each of the members sponsored an endangered animal, and in 2000, traveled to the various locations around the world of their chosen animals for a seven-part BBC documentary series entitled \"S Club 7 Go Wild\".\n\n\"Environmentally Sound: A Select Anthology of Songs Inspired by the Earth\" is a benefit album released in 2006, for WWF-Philippines, featuring artists that included Up Dharma Down, Radioactive Sago Project, Kala, Cynthia Alexander, and Joey Ayala.\n\nIn June 2012, WWF launched an online music download store with fairsharemusic from which 50% of the profit goes to the charity.\n\nIn April 2015, Hailey Gardiner released her solo EP, titled The Woods. In honor of Earth Day, 15% of the proceeds made towards the purchase of the EP would be donated to the WWF.\n\n\nSince 2008, through its Global Programme Framework (GPF), WWF has said it is concentrating its efforts on 13 global initiatives:\n\n\n"}
