{"id": "5996211", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5996211", "title": "American Immigration Control Foundation", "text": "American Immigration Control Foundation\n\nAmerican Immigration Control Foundation (AIC Foundation) is an American political group devoted to reducing \"uncontrolled immigration.\" It is a large publisher and distributor of publications dealing with immigration into the United States. AIC Foundation also conducts multi-media campaigns around the country to raise public awareness of immigration problems. It is listed as a hate group by the Southern Poverty Law Center.\n\nFounded in 1983 and based in Monterey, Virginia, AIC Foundation received more than $190,000 through 1998 from the controversial Pioneer Fund. AICF has been headed by John Vinson since 1960. Columnist Samuel T. Francis was AICF chairman in the mid-1990s.\n\n"}
{"id": "42120155", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42120155", "title": "Anti-Maidan", "text": "Anti-Maidan\n\nThe anti-Maidan () refers to a number of demonstrations in Ukraine first directed against the Euromaidan and later the new Ukrainian government. The initial participants were in favor of supporting the cabinet of the second Azarov government, President Viktor Yanukovych, and closer ties with Russia. After the overthrow of Yanukovych, anti-Maidan became divided into various other groups, which partially overlapped. These ranged from people protesting against social ills, to supporters of a federalization of Ukraine, to pro-Russian separatists and nationalists.\n\nA pro-government counter protest reportedly gathered 10,000 people on 25 November (the reference does not contain any information about the pro-government protests). The Party of Regions allegedly paid UAH₴100 to its supporters to participate in a three-hour rally, with supporters calling for \"building Europe in Ukraine [...] but on terms and conditions favourable for Ukraine\". According to the \"Kyiv Post\", demonstrators held anti-EU and homophobic banners (wrong reference). On 29 November a 2-hour 3,000 people strong pro-government rally took place on European Square. Party of Regions member of parliament Vladyslav Lukianov told the crowd: \"I'm sure that our movement to Europe will never change. We support this choice. Let the land shatter from our steps. Together we will win\". The \"Kyiv Post\" again reported incentives were given to attend and described attendants in appearance \"to be homeless; still more look drunk. The crowd consists mostly of men\". Euronews spoke of many being \"bused in from the east of the country where pro-Russian sentiment is strong. They, too, carried national flags as well as those of the ruling Party of Regions\". Many in the crowd refused to talk to Euronews.\n\nOn 30 November, several thousand protesters had been brought into Kharkiv on buses to stage a rally to support the government on Freedom Square. Some 170 buses were reported on the scene, and the number of attendees was according to organisers allegedly over 70,000; news agencies reported the size of the crowd to be 40,000. The event lasted only 1 hour. Reports indicated attendees were paid UAH₴50 to attend, and reports indicated that many were public sector workers who did not attend on their own accord. The rally was both pro-administration and pro-European Integration.\n\nA rally in support of President Yanukovych held by the Donetsk Regional State Administration and the Party of Regions was to be held in Donetsk on 2 December, but was cancelled due to failure to organise enough people.\n\nOn 3 December, 1,000 attended a rally in Kiev put on by the Party of Regions to support the president. The same day, it was reported by journalists of Espreso.tv that a Party of Regions organised rally in Kiev was paying UAH₴200 to participants via online job postings.\n\nOn 4 December, 15,000 rallied in Donetsk in support of the president, many of whom were bussed in. The Party of Regions denied any allegations of forcing anyone to attend.\n\nA rally and tent camp action in support of President Viktor Yanukovych and at initiative of the Party of Regions began on 3 December in Mariinsky park located close by the Verkhovna Rada building (the parliament). The Party of Regions's press service reported on Sunday 6 December that over 15,000 people were taking part in a pro-government rally there. According to city police, there were some 3,000 people in the park the day before., and the press estimated them at 2,000. Police heavily guarded this event from not only anti-government protesters, but also from any journalists and on-lookers.\n\nAccording to Segodnya, people attending the pro-government Marinsky Park event were hired or obliged to attend, and forced to stay for a pre-determined time. In one incident on 8 December, protesters were held at the rally against their will by armed security.\n\nSpeaking on condition of anonymity to the \"Kyiv Post\", one demonstrator said that participants of the rally are paid UAH₴300 or more in order to earn money without going to work. She also recalled cases when they were not let outside the rally for the whole day, while inside the camp there was a build up of garbage and dirty toilets on the grounds. Mark MacKinnon, senior international correspondent for \"The Globe and Mail\", attempted to interview a demonstrator at the ongoing Anti-Maidan, but although was refused the demonstrator indicated to him that she actually supported the Euromaidan protests.\n\nIn parliament on 13 December Svoboda leader Oleh Tyahnybok said people on the government payroll in medical, education and other sectors (the so-called \"byudzhetnye\" sectors) were being bullied into coming to a planned pro-government rally that weekend; Speaker of parliament and Party of Regions member Volodymyr Rybak responded, saying that it is wrong to pressure people and it has to stop.\n\nOn 23 December, the pro-government rally ended.\n\nOn 14 December the Party of Regions announced that they intended to hold a rally on European Square under the banner \"Let's Save Ukraine\". The move to create a second rally in the city by officials was condemned by former president Leonid Kravchuk. According to party officials, 20,000 were expected to come from Donetsk and 10,000 from Dnipropetrovsk Oblast. Many others were expected to arrive from the Crimea, Odessa Oblast, and a number of other regions. In the lead up to the rally, it was reported on 12 December that \"thousands\" of residents from Dnipropetrovsk (mostly government employees, students of technical schools, and athletes) were traveling to Kiev to join in the pro-government rallies. Those interviewed said they were doing so reluctantly, and only for two days, at a rate of UAH₴400–500 a day. It was also reported that state employees were coerced to join the group under threat of dismissal. On the day of the rally, UDAR MP Roman Chereha accused officials of bringing in children from shelters, promising them food and shelter. On 13 December, the Donetsk regional organisation of The Party of Regions said that people wishing to go to Kiev would be provided food rations and would be transported on a specially commissioned train, paid for by the party. In Odessa, several trains carrying roughly 3,000 departed the city carrying students and teachers to participate in the pro-government rally; students, some from the Odessa Law Academy, admitted they would receive school credit for attending; others would receive financial compensation. It was similarly reported in Luhansk that over 1,000 had departed via rail, and those attending were largely coal miners from the region. Luhansk mayor Sergei Kravchenko in an address stated that over 1,500 residents would support the government at the rally. Meanwhile, in Zaporizhia, it was reported that a train packed with 1,600 \"athletic men and workers of state enterprises and companies\" was departing to Kiev. Conductors said it was a private, rented train with tickets not available to the public. In a list released by journalist Tatiana Honchenko, a total of 27 trains, each with on average 20 cars had been rented by the Party of Regions for the weekend event to transport supporters from across Ukraine to Kiev.\n\nOpposition leaders Arseniy Yatseniuk and Ihor Miroshnychenko issued a warning, citing inside information, that authorities were planning to use the large pro-government rally in order to start a civil conflict and justify issuing a state of emergency, which would require the use of Berkut riot police and military to clear European Square and Maidan. Yatsenyuk specifically warned against the use of hired thugs (titushky) who will infiltrate and start to wreak havoc in the pro-European encampment cloaked in either European Union or national colours. Opposition leader Yuriy Lutsenko, however, called for calm and assured that the pro-government rally will be attended by peaceful, state-paid employees and students. Oleksandr Yefremov, head of the Party of Regions parliamentary faction reiterated: \"This will be an exclusively peaceful demonstration, our people are always easy to get along with ... we will also rely on the police to create a safe buffer between the two rallies\". However, a statement by Party of Regions MP Vadym Kolesnichenko acknowledged the creation of vigilante groups being formed in the south-east of Ukraine and across Crimea to \"protect public order and the Constitution\", and that one such group in Sevastopol already had already amassed 800 recruits; adding that they would be involved in the events of the weekend. In an interview by Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty with an attendee on the day of the event, the subject (who taught boxing) revealed that he and a group of others were offered UAH₴1,000 by organisers to instigate a fight with protesters on Maidan.\n\nThe Interior Ministry's press service told the \"Kyiv Post\" on 13 December that the pro-government rally received permission to have up to 200,000 in attendance. According to Zerkalo Nedeli, one of the nation's most influential newspapers, the National Security and Defense Council of Ukraine and government ordered the Ministry of Defense to aid in the provision of security, logistics, deployment of field kitchens, and transportation of 200,000 civilians to hold a pro-government rally in Kiev on the weekend of 14–15 December. The Ministry of Internal Affairs is said to have been requested to aid in the security for those coming to Kiev from other regions of the country. The report was covered in the media by The Insider, UNIAN, and Ukrayinska Pravda. The Minister of Defense later denied these rumors, citing Article 17 and Article 37 of the Ukrainian Constitution, which prohibits the participation of the Ukrainian Armed Forces in domestic political fights. Despite this, on 13 December tents were seen being set up on property owned by the Ministry of Defense, and in a separate report by Zerkalo Nedeli it was revealed that the Ministry of Defense had been conducting training exercises over the previous two days, including taking inventory of equipment (ex. field kitchens, vehicles) for support of the pro-governmental protests. Resources were also transferred to \"Ukpromakord\", the food supplier of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. Further, on the day of the event witnesses reported and photographed 40 military field kitchens serving pro-government supporters in Mariinsky Park.\n\nPrime Minister Mykola Azarov spoke at the rally and told attendants that Ukraine did not decline its goal of integrating to the EU: \"We're allegedly betray Ukraine and sign [the agreement on joining] the Customs Union of Belarus, Kazakhstan, and Russia. I strongly deny these speculations\". He referred to statements that Ukrainian authorities where planning to join this Customs Union as \"profiteering\". Azarov also urged, \"Don't divide Ukraine, don't build barricades\". Azarov also said the EU had insisted on 'unacceptable conditions' sign the AA, including the introduction of gay marriage and laws protecting sexual minorities. \"The opposition leaders are telling fables when they say that we only have to sign the [association] agreement [with the EU] to start traveling to Europe visa-free the next day. Nothing of the sort. We have yet to comply with a whole set of preconditions: we have to legalise same-sex marriages, we have to adopt legislation on equality of sexual minorities, and so on. Is our society ready for this?\" Azarov said. Azarov has subsequently decamped to Vienna, where he maintains a palatial home.\n\nAt the event, Party of Regions MP Hryhoriy Smitiukh called attendees to appeal to Russian president Vladimir Putin to lower the price of gas in Ukraine, and engaged the crowd in a chant of \"Putin! Putin!\"\n\nOrganisers claimed over 100,000 attended; police estimated 60,000 attended, which was also estimated to be the maximum capacity of the square; eyewitnesses placed the attendance as low as 20,000. At 6:00 p.m. Party of Regions head Oleksandr Efremov announced the end of the meeting, a day earlier than planned. By the end of the rally, only 3,000 remained, and by the evening European Square was deserted.\n\nThe rally on 15 December ran from 10:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m., and there were various reports that attendees were not paid in full for their time. \"People came to express their will. We paid them Hr 300 per day. I did not promise any money to them, I am here with my voters,\" said Artur Martovytskiy, a lawmaker from the Party of Regions.\n\nAnother rally by supporters of the Party of Regions began on 13 January 2014 and continued until the adoption of the state budget for 2014 on 17 January. According to the organisers people are attending the rally because they want \"stability in the country\" and believe that it is unacceptable to hinder the adoption of the state budget. Protesters are planning to spend the night in the tent city in Mariinsky park. According to the organisers participants in the rally were collecting signatures that will be sent to the Kiev city council with the request to free the center of Kiev of demonstrators, including Khreshchatyk and Maidan Nezalezhnosti. The organisers stated that the protesters were in favour of a peaceful solution to this issue and were against the violent dispersal of the pro-European rally. Interfax-Ukraine reported on 13 January that about ten tents had been set up in the park and metal shields had been installed perpendicular to Hrushevskoho Street, with law enforcement officers standing behind them.\n\nPrime Minister Azarov criticised Euromaidan coverage in western media, and lack of attention to the 'anti-Maidan', \"The Western media are paying attention to one square and do not pay for another,\" and said that the \"anti-maidan\" represents all of Ukraine, whereas Euromaidan as a whole only represents Lviv, Ternopil, and Ivano-Frankivsk. He then stated that the majority of Ukraine supports the president, the government, and no longer has interest in European integration.\n\nAnother rally by supporters of the Party of Regions (planned to bring up to 10,000 attendees) in Mariinsky park began on 21 January 2014 against an alleged attempted \"coup\" by the Euromaidan protesters. It is planned to continue until the end of the 2014 Hrushevskoho Street riots.\n\nThe Communist Party of Ukraine planned to gather 2,000 supporters to a 24 November 2013 rally against signing agreements with the European Union. Communists who attended set up tents near the statue of Lenin in Kyiv, intending to protect it from vandalism.\n\nOn 25 November in Sevastopol the Russian Bloc and the Communist Party of Ukraine organised an \"antimaidan\". The meeting was conducted in support of joining the Customs Union of Belarus, Kazakhstan, and Russia. Previous rallies by the Russian Bloc in the weeks prior included EU flag burning and anti-government, and anti-Ukrainian rhetoric, On 26 November, another antimaidan protest was organised in Donetsk, attracting only 30 student protesters. Organisers stated that the European Union had ruined the economies of new members, and that joining would bring corruption and gay marriage. The protest was counter to the pro-EU EuroMaidan protest 200 meters away, which attracted no more than 50 protesters. The next day, a small antimaidan rally was held by the Russian Bloc and Communists in Mykolaiv. At a 25 November rally in Luhansk, protesters were met with resistance from a group of Don Cossacks, who were against EU membership and referred to pro-EU protesters as fascists.\n\nA 1 December Communist rally in Donetsk gathered about 200 mostly elderly supporters who chanted: \"The union of Ukraine, Russia and Belarus is inevitable\". The following day, Communist Party of Ukraine MP Antonina Khromova made statements at the Donetsk regional council, approving the use of force to remove protesters in Kiev, which was met with applause. She continued by saying that Ukraine does not need \"European values\", namely, \"same-sex marriage\" and \"African panhandlers\".\n\nThe Sevastopol city council, on the initiative of the Russian Bloc, opted to appeal to the President and the Government of Ukraine to reorient foreign policy towards Russia and its Customs Union. The Russian Bloc has also demanded the resignation of Minister of Education Dmytro Tabachnyk, for not preventing students from taking part in the Euromaidan protests. On 8 December, the \"Russian Community of Sevastopol\" organisation held a rally in support of Berkut anti-riot troops who made headlines for assaulting students and journalists in Kiev the week prior. Leader of the group, Tatiana Ermakova, expressed outrage at the fact that, according to her, protesters provoked and attacked Berkut troops. \"No country in the world would allow such lawlessness which, for the 17th day occurs on the Maidan,\" she said. The official statement from Russian Community specifically thanked the anti-riot troops for 'protecting us from the fascists', and called the Euromaidan demonstrators \"Nazis\" and \"Banderites\".\n\nOn 14 December the leaders of the Russian Bloc and Russian Unity met with the Consul General of Russia in Crimea, Vyacheslav Svitlychny, and declared the preparation of an \"antimaidan\" to demand the secession of Crimea from Ukraine.\n\nOn 25 January, a pro-government antimaidan was held in Mykolayiv, with attendees largely described as mostly young men, athletic, and appearing to be \"titushky\". The crowd of 400 spoke out against fascism and held signs promoting the unity of Ukraine, Belarus, and Russia.\n\nOn 26 January, a rally took place against the Maidan movement in Simferopol, with 200 attending. Protesters accused journalists of killing people in Kiev. 1,000 gathered in Donetsk, supported by local Regions supporters, communists, and neo-cossacks; clashes caused some injuries.\n\nOn 1 February in Dnipropetrovsk, Communists held a rally in support of merging Ukraine with Russia and Belarus, and called for the imposition of curfews, the closing of banks, and the expulsion of foreigners. In January 2015, an Anti-Maidan movement in Russia said it was ready to use violence to stop anti-government and pro-democracy protesters.\n\nSeveral news outlets have investigated the claims to confirm that by and large, attendees at pro-government rallies did so for financial compensation and not for political reasons, and were not an organic response to the Euromaidan. \"People stand at Euromaidan protesting against the violation of human rights in the state, and they are ready to make sacrifices,\" said Oleksiy Haran, a political scientist at Kyiv Mohyla Academy in Kiev. \"People at Antimaidan stand for money only. The government uses these hirelings to provoke resistance. They won't be sacrificing anything.\" However, 42 Antimaidan activists lost their lives in the 2014 Odessa fire.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1888826", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1888826", "title": "Argentine Anticommunist Alliance", "text": "Argentine Anticommunist Alliance\n\nThe Argentine Anticommunist Alliance (, usually known as Triple A or AAA) was a far-right death squad founded in Argentina in 1973 and particularly active under Isabel Perón's rule (1974–1976). Initially associated with the Peronist right, the organisation opposed the Peronist left and other leftist organizations. The AAA acted against a wide range of government opponents, not just communists.\n\nThe Triple A allegedly was secretly led by José López Rega, Minister of Social Welfare and personal secretary of Juan Perón. Rodolfo Almirón, arrested in Spain in 2006, was alleged to be his chief operating officer of the group, and was officially head of López Rega's and Isabel Perón's personal security. He was extradited from Spain in 2006 and prosecuted; he died in jail in June 2009. SIDE agent Anibal Gordon was another important member of the Triple A, although he always denied it. He was tried in Argentina in 1985 after the restoration of democracy and convicted in October 1986. Gordon died in prison of lung cancer the next year.\n\nIn 2006, Argentine Judge Norberto Oyarbide ruled the Triple A had committed \"crimes against humanity,\" which meant their crimes were exempt from statutes of limitations. Suspects can be prosecuted for actions committed in the 1970s and early 1980s.\n\nThe \"Triple A\" was believed to have been organized in 1973 by José López Rega and Alberto Villar, deputy chief of the Argentine federal police, during the brief interim presidency of Raúl Lastiri in 1973. Reportedly, the movement was conceived at a high-level Peronist meeting on October 1, 1973, attended by President Raúl Lastiri, Interior Minister Benito Llambí, Social Welfare Minister José López Rega, general secretary of the Presidency José Humberto Martiarena and various provincial governors. The group has been defined by legal rulings as part of state terrorism, operating under the governments of Lastiri, Perón and Isabel Perón through López Rega resignation and exile in July 1975. Villar and his wife were assassinated in 1974 with a bomb that was planted on his cabin cruiser in Tigre by members of the \"Montoneros\", a militant, leftist group.\n\nLópez Rega, a devotee of occultism and self-styled divinator, became a powerful force in the Peronist movement. He exerted great influence over Perón, who was elected to the presidency and took office in 1973, and his wife Isabel Martínez de Perón, elected as vice-president, who succeeded to the presidency upon Perón's sudden death on 1 July 1974. To support the paramilitary group, López Rega drew on funds from the Ministry of Social Welfare, which he controlled. Some of the members of the Triple A had earlier taken part in the Peronist 1973 Ezeiza massacre. On the day Perón returned from exile, snipers shot and killed numerous (13 at least killed) left-wing Peronists at the mass gathering to welcome his return, leading to the definitive separation between left and right-wing Peronists.\n\nThe Spanish Judge Baltazar Garzón's investigations, directed at human rights abuses internationally, revealed that Italian neofascist Stefano Delle Chiaie had also worked with the Triple A, and was present at Ezeiza. Delle Chiaie also worked with the Chilean DINA in Chile, and for Hugo Banzer, a Bolivian dictator.\n\nAccording to a 1983 \"New York Times\" article, the group was founded when there were an increasing number of guerrilla attacks by left-wing militant groups, which were met by harsh repression of political dissidents on the part of the military, paramilitary and police forces. This environment of social unrest was the justification used by the subsequent military junta for its Dirty War against political opponents. But testimony at the 1985 Juicio a las Juntas trial established that by 1976, both the ERP and the Montoneros had been dismantled, and the political dissidents had never posed a real threat to the government.\n\nThe group first came to national attention on 21 November 1973 in its attempt to murder Argentine Senator Hipólito Solari Yrigoyen by a car bomb. The AAA went on to kill 1,122 people, according to an appendix to the 1983 CONADEP report, including suspected Montoneros and ERP leftist guerrillas and their sympathizers, but the group expanded its targets to other political opponents, including judges, police chiefs, and social activists. In total, it is suspected of having killed more than 1500 people.\n\nThe group is strongly suspected in the 1974 assassination of Jesuit priest Carlos Mugica, a friend of Mario Firmenich, the founder of Montoneros. Other people murdered by the organisation include Silvio Frondizi, brother of former president Arturo Frondizi; Julio Troxler, former-vice director of the police; Alfredo Curutchet, a defense attorney for political prisoners; and Hipólito Atilio López, a key union leader of Córdoba. The CONADEP commission on human rights violations documented the Triple A's execution of 19 homicides in 1973, 50 in 1974 and 359 in 1975, while its involvement in several hundred others is also suspected.\n\nThe 1986 study by Ignacio Jansen González is often cited; he estimates the group committed 220 terrorist attacks from July to September 1974, which killed 60 and severely wounded 44; as well as 20 kidnappings. Federal judge Norberto Oyarbide, who signed the extradition order against former leader of the AAA Rodolfo Almirón, ruled in December 2006 that Triple A's crimes qualified as human rights violations and the \"beginning of the systematic process directed by the state apparatus\" during the dictatorship.\n\nDeath threats caused many of the opposition to leave Argentina. Amongst many well-known and respected people who left are mathematician Manuel Sadosky, artists Héctor Alterio, Luis Brandoni and Nacha Guevara, politician and entrepreneur José Ber Gelbard, lawyer and politician Héctor Sandler, and actor Norman Briski.\n\nMain assassinations claimed by the AAA:\n\n\nAfter the fall of López Rega in 1975 and Jorge Rafael Videla's coup in March 1976, many Triple A members fled to Spain, where they became involved in murders of Spanish leftists. Fifteen former AAA members (including Rodolfo Almirón) were involved in the Montejurra 1976 shooting of two left-wing Carlist members at a large annual gathering in Spain. Others implicated in the event were Italian neofascist Stefano Delle Chiaie and Jean Pierre Cherid, former member of the French OAS and at the time part of the GAL death squad in Spain.\n\nFormer Triple A member José María Boccardo took part with Cherid and others in the 1978 assassination of Argala, the \"ETA\" terrorist who, in 1973, was involved in the assassination of Franco's Prime minister Luis Carrero Blanco.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33740512", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33740512", "title": "Australian Motorist Party", "text": "Australian Motorist Party\n\nThe Australian Motorist Party (A.M.P.) is an Australian political party dedicated to representing motorist and road users, as well pedestrians, throughout Australia. It was founded by groups of concerned motorists.\n\n\nThe \"A.M.P.\" was formed in May 2007 and became an official registered party in 2008. They ran in each of the three electorate at the 2008 ACT elections and used a bus equipped with a public address system to promote their new political party. None of the candidates won the seats they were running for on election night, but Walford made a speech to A.M.P. president, Geoff Develin, to stay positive. In the 2012 ACT Elections the party ran candidates in each of the three electorates, most notably in Ginninderra, where Summernauts organiser Chic Henry contested the seat and secured 6.6% of the vote. The party once again, however failed to have any candidates elected.\n"}
{"id": "7967932", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7967932", "title": "Britons Publishing Society", "text": "Britons Publishing Society\n\nBritons Publishing Society, founded in 1923, was an offshoot of The Britons. According to scholar Gisela C. Lebzelter, The Britons split because:\n... internal disagreements proved paralysing. Seven members were excluded in November 1923, and three executives members, J. H. Clarke, the famous British homeopath, R. T. Cooper and W. A. Peters, seceded to establish 'The Britons Publishing Society'.\nOn December 15, 1923 the three executed a memorandum in which they expressed their organizational purpose as follows:\n\n\"propagating views in regard to the Jews, the Christian Religion, the Government of the British Isles and the British Empire,\nand other matters which, in our opinion from time to time,\nit is in the interests of the British Public should be expressed and distributed and to do anything at all which, in our opinion, equips us for this purpose.\n\nThe Society to be conducted not for the purpose of making profit\"\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2851495", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2851495", "title": "Can Dialectics Break Bricks?", "text": "Can Dialectics Break Bricks?\n\nLa dialectique peut-elle casser des briques ?, in English, \"Can Dialectics Break Bricks?\", is a 1973 Situationist film produced by the French director René Viénet which explores the development of class conflict through revolutionary agitation against a backdrop of graphic kung-fu fighting.\n\nThe film uses 1972 martial arts film \"Crush\" by Tu Guangqi, which tells the story of anti-colonialist revolt in Korea during the period of Japanese occupation, for its visuals which has been dubbed over by the filmmakers in an attempt at détournement. The concept and motivation of this film was to adapt a \"spectacular\" film into a radical critique of cultural hegemony and thus into tools of subversive revolutionary ideals.\n\nThe Narrative is based upon a conflict between the proletarian and bureaucrats within state capitalism. The proletarians enlist their dialectics and radical subjectivity to fight their oppressors whilst the bureaucrats defend themselves using a combination of co-optation and violence. The film is noted for its humorous approach to this serious subject matter.\n\nThe film also contains many praising references to revolutionaries who thought and fought for the realisation of a post-capitalist world, including Marx, Bakunin, and Wilhelm Reich, as well as scathing criticism towards the French Communist Party, trade unionism and Maoism. Also Subplots dealing with issues of gender equality, alienation, Paris Commune, May 1968, and the Situationist themselves are riddled throughout the film.\n\n"}
{"id": "19228812", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19228812", "title": "Cash-for-votes scandal", "text": "Cash-for-votes scandal\n\nThe cash-for-votes scandal was an Indian political scandal allegedly masterminded by then Opposition Party Bharatiya Janata Party politician Sudheendra Kulkarni in which the United Progressive Alliance, the majority-holding parliamentary-party alliance of India led by Sonia Gandhi, allegedly bribed Bhartiya Janta Party MPs in order to survive a confidence vote on 22 July 2008. The vote in the Lok Sabha arose after the Communist Party of India (Marxist)-led Left Front withdrew support from the government, who wanted to pursue an Indo-US nuclear deal.\n\nIn 2008, the 123 Agreement signed between the United States of America and the Republic of India is known as the U.S.–India Civil Nuclear Agreement or Indo-US nuclear deal. The framework for this agreement was a 18 July 2005, joint statement by then Indian Prime Minister Dr. Manmohan Singh and then U.S. President George W. Bush, under which India agreed to separate its civil and military nuclear facilities and to place all its civil nuclear facilities under International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) safeguards and, in exchange, the United States agreed to work toward \"full\" civil nuclear cooperation with India.\n\nThe Communist Party of India (Marxist) that was supporting the Dr Manmohan Singh government, objected to the agreement citing reasons that proposal would see the United States supply nuclear technology to India in return for India agreeing to United Nations inspections of its nuclear programs and the splitting of the civil and military aspects of those programs. CPI(M) believed that this would cause India to be effectively subservient to the US. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) also objected, on the grounds that the inspections could impede development of the country's nuclear arms program.\n\nIt had been argued by Dr. Manmohan Singh and his party that the nuclear infrastructure needed to be developed more rapidly because the existing electric generation facilities were incapable of meeting growing demand.\n\nThe United Progressive Alliance (UPA), the governing alliance in India elected in 2004, faced its first confidence vote in the Lok Sabha (the lower house of Parliament) on 22 July 2008 after the Communist Party of India (Marxist)-led Left Front withdrew support over India approaching the IAEA for the Indo-US nuclear deal. The vote was so crucial that the UPA and the opposition parties summoned MPs from their sick beds and even from prison cells to take part in the vote, which was eventually won by the Government.\n\nThe government's success in the 2008 confidence vote was marred when three BJP MPs, including Ashok Argal, waved bundles of cash which they produced from bags in parliament during the debate, accusing the government of giving it to them in order to buy their support or abstention in the vote. The BJP demanded the resignation of Prime Minister Manmohan Singh over the allegations and claimed that they had video evidence of the deals being made, while the CPI(M) leader said that \"Practically every member of parliament has been approached with offers of money and inducements.\" The government denied the allegations, pointing out that Argal would have self-incriminated himself by admitting to receiving a bribe. The Speaker, Somnath Chatterjee, asked New Delhi's police chief to investigate.\n\nA fortnight later, on 2 August, the BJP offered \"documentary evidence\" to support its allegation that Argal, Faggan Singh Kulaste and Mahaveer Bhagora had been bribed. The evidence included transcripts of video recordings and explanatory letters from two of the MPs, all of which was passed to the investigatory committee that had been set up by parliament. The BJP also criticised CNN-IBN, who had recorded the BJP MP's attempt to sting the government but had not broadcast it.\n\nThe tapes were broadcast on 12 August 2008 after CNN-IBN had made its appearance before the investigating committee. The company had resisted the calls for an earlier broadcast on the grounds of legal opinion that it had not yet attended the committee and that the broadcast might prejudice the investigatory process.\n\nThe parliamentary investigation began on 30 July 2008 and has frequently been referred to as the Kishore Chandra Deo committee. The committee reported in December 2008 that it had found no evidence of bribery in the case of Rajya Sabha members Amar Singh and Ahmad Patel. They had been accused of offering the bribes, and Singh was a prominent member of the Samajwadi Party (SP) which had begun to support the government at the time when the Left Front moved to oppose it. The committee also recommended further investigation into the activities of Sanjeev Saxena, Sohail Hindustani and Sudheendra Kulkarni. Saxena was an aide to Amar Singh, Kulkarni had a similar role for the BJP leader, L. K. Advani and Hindustani was a Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha activist (although some early reports say that he was a driver). Some committee members distanced themselves from the report's full conclusions but agreed that the additional investigation was needed. The report concluded that the video evidence relating to a car at Singh's house was insufficient proof: it was not possible to determine who was in the car and \"It does not prove what transpired inside the house. There is nothing to show that money was offered for voting in favour of the motion of confidence or for abstaining from voting.\"\n\nA police investigation was instigated in January 2009 to look into the issues relating to Saxena, Hindustani and Kulkarni which had been recommended in the report of the parliamentary committee.\n\nIn his autobiography \"Drohkaal ka Pathik\", released in November 2013, former MP Pappu Yadav alleged that during the July 2008 trust vote, both the Congress and BJP had offered \"Rs 40 crore each\" to MPs of his Indian Federal Democratic Party, for their support.\n\nThe Congress Party had worked to support the government in the vote and on 17 March 2011 WikiLeaks claimed that Nachiketa Kapur, a Congress Party political aide, had boasted to US Embassy officials in July 2008 that his party had funds to bribe MPs in order to obtain a favourable outcome. Kapur claimed that four MPs who were members of Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) had already been paid off. \"The Hindu\" reported that \n\nFormer United States Ambassador to India David Campbell Mulford commented that US diplomatic cables were \"generally accurate\" but that all he could recall of the incident was that someone \"turned out with a suitcase of money and dumped it on the table ... That was clear theatrics.\" In denying any wrongdoing, the RLD pointed out that they only had three MPs at the time, not four as stated in the leaked cable. Satish Sharma, who was the person for whom Kapur acted as an aide according to the cable, said that he had no aide at all.\n\nThe revelations led immediately to further calls for the resignation of Manmohan Singh and also for an investigation of the activities of Kapur and Sharma. There were also calls for the issue of a First Information Report (FIR), which is the formal means by which the police record their notification of an offence.\n\nIt was announced on the following day, 18 March, that the police investigation into the original allegations was near to completion.\n\n\"Tehelka\", a sometimes controversial publication that specialises in exposés, reported that the entire affair was a BJP set-up designed to entrap members of the government. The report was based on an account given by Siddharth Gautam, a CNN-IBN reporter who had been involved, and on some recordings of telephone conversations that had not previously been made available.\n\nAn application was made to the Supreme Court on 2 April requesting that it ordered a Special Investigation Team to probe the affair. The applicants were a group calling themselves the India Rejuvenation Initiative and they argued that the investigatory process had stalled since the report of the parliamentary committee. The hearing was adjourned to due a procedural irregularity in the application, and when this was resolved on 2 May the Court issued notices to the Delhi police and government that required them to provide information regarding the current status of the investigation. The petitioners said that \n\nOn 7 July the Court voiced its frustration with the continued absence of the requested status reports and set a filing deadline of 15 July. The police had requested a further two months to fulfil the request. Upon being presented with the status report, the Court criticised the lethargy of the police investigation, complaining that little had been done and that which had been done was poorly documented, inconsistent and in places factually incorrect.\n\nThe court was similarly disparaging of a second report which followed on from a burst of activity by the police. On 5 August 2011, Justice Loda said \n\nSudheendra Kulkarni<br>\nIn September 2011, a former aide of India's top opposition leader LK Advani, Sudheendra Kulkarni, has been arrested in connection with an alleged cash-for-votes scandal. Kulkarni is alleged to have \"master-minded\" the operation. He says it was to expose corruption in the government. Kulkarni was an aide to senior Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader LK Advani at the time of the vote. He told the court that he was \"a whistleblower\" who intended to expose corruption. Police allege that Kulkarni approached Amar Singh's Samajwadi Party - an ally of the Congress-led government at the time of the vote - to offer bribe to BJP MPs. He then got a television channel to secretly film the alleged bribe giving in order to nail the government, police allege.\n\nSanjeev Saxena<br>\nSanjeev Saxena, alleged to be an aide of the then Samajwadi Party general secretary Amar Singh was arrested on 17 July, two days after the police had been criticised by the Court. The police claimed to have sufficient evidence to prove that he had delivered money to the three BJP MPs and alleged that he had misled both their inquiry and that of parliament. They also announced that they had interviewed Bhahora and Kulaste, who were no longer MPs, but that their ability to interview Argal was hampered because he was still in office. They had applied to the Home Ministry for permission to interview him and Amar Singh, still a member of the Rajya Sabha, and further announced that they intended to re-interview Hindustani. The developments caused Deo to clarify that his committee had not absolved Singh of any involvement but rather that it had found no evidence to confirm involvement. He also had to explain that the decision not to interview Singh had been because the committee had no \"prima facie\" evidence of Singh's involvement, the summonsing process for a Rajya Sabha member would have been complex, and the outcome may have still been a failure to attend as Singh was not obliged to do so. Furthermore, he stated, the dissenting members of the committee had agreed with its conclusions but had disagreed with his chairmanship. Deo had become a cabinet minister on 12 July.\n\nSohail Hindustani<br>\nDelhi Police arrested Sohail Hindustani, a Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha activist was arrested on 20 July and announced that he would be repeating his previous statements that he had been approached by Singh and some members of the Congress Party who had wanted him to \"arrange\" BJP votes. The police described him as the \"orchestrator\" and explained that he was working for the BJP in an attempt to entrap the government, but his defence counsel has claimed that he was just a \"whistleblower\" and that as such he should not have been the primary focus of police attention. The BJP took a similar line to defence counsel, claiming that the investigation was an \"eyewash\", querying how police lethargy had turned so quickly and suggesting that they were being put under pressure by the government.\n\nAmar Singh<br>\nAmar Singh was interviewed on 22 July and on the same day the police announced that they wished to speak with SP MP Rewati Raman Singh, whom the BJP MPs alleged had approached them on behalf of Amar Singh. On the same day, the Court ordered that Hindustani and Saxena should be detained in custody for 14 days, despite defence arguments of police misconduct. The defence claimed that the police had not interviewed Hindustani and therefore had no new evidence upon which to base their recent claims of orchestration. When the police stated that interviews had taken place the defence counsel responded by noting that they had not been present for any such interviews and that their presence was a legal requirement. The detentions were subsequently extended to 18 August.\n<br>\nDespite Amar Singh having previously fallen out with his party's leadership and being expelled from the party, Mulayam Singh, the leader of the SP, voiced his support for the ex-member on 24 July and claimed that Amar Singh had been framed. Rewati Raman Singh and Argal were interviewed by police on the following day, with Singh claiming that he gave them the same details as he had previously given to the investigatory committee, and Argal claiming that in fact Singh had approached him in relation to facilitating the alleged bribe. Kulkarni was interviewed on 14 July.\n<br>\nAmar Singh was arrested on 6 September for his alleged involvement in the scam and was ordered to be remanded in custody until 19 September. He had appealed to the court to exempt him from appearing personally, stating that he was ill with an infection; however, his request was rejected.\n\nOn 22 November 2013, a Delhi court accepted the statements of Amar Singh and three BJP men - Faggan Singh Kulaste, Ashok Argal and Mahabir Singh Bhagora - that their actions had been as whistleblowers. Saxena still stands trial under the Prevention of Corruption Act.\n\n"}
{"id": "1572064", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1572064", "title": "Chiam See Tong", "text": "Chiam See Tong\n\nChiam See Tong (; born 12 March 1935) is a Singaporean politician and lawyer. He is Singapore's longest-serving Opposition Member of Parliament (MP) in a Single Member Constituency (SMC), having represented the constituency of Potong Pasir in Parliament from 1984 to 2011. Chiam will however lose his mantle to Low Thia Kiang by the end of 2017. He was also Singapore's longeat serving Opposition Leader from 1984 to 2001.\n\nChiam was founding leader of the Singapore Democratic Party (SDP) up to December 1996, when he left the party to join the Singapore People's Party (SPP) prior to the 1997 general election. He subsequently spearheaded the formation of the Singapore Democratic Alliance (SDA), and was its chairman and \"de facto\" opposition leader from 2001 to 2011. However, in March 2011 he announced that he was withdrawing the SPP from the SDA grouping, and would contest the next general election under the SPP banner. At the 2011 general election, Chiam decided not to seek re-election in his Potong Pasir constituency and instead stood as a member of the SPP's team in the Bishan-Toa Payoh Group Representation Constituency. However the SPP was defeated by the PAP's team in Bishan-Toa Payoh. His wife Lina Chiam narrowly lost the election in Potong Pasir and accepted a seat as a Non Constituency Member of Parliament.\n\nChiam first entered politics in 1976 when he contested as an independent candidate in Cairnhill constituency, where he lost to Minister for Communications and National Development Lim Kim San. In the 1979 by-election, Chiam contested the Potong Pasir seat for the first time, again as an independent, and got 33% of the votes against the People Action Party (PAP)'s candidate Howe Yoon Chong.\n\nChiam founded the Singapore Democratic Party (SDP) on 6 August 1980, and was the party's Secretary-General (leader) until 1993. He contested the Potong Pasir seat again in 1980 and lost to Howe again, but his vote share increased to 41%. In 1984, Chiam contested the seat against Mah Bow Tan, and won with 60.3% of the votes, on a swing of 19 percent against the PAP.\n\nIn his subsequent five elections, Chiam continued to fend off challengers from the PAP. His winning margin reached a peak of 69.6% in the 1991 polls.\n\nWhen Chiam was first elected to Parliament in 1984, he was only the second opposition politician ever to be elected to Singapore's Parliament after J. B. Jeyaretnam of the Workers' Party (WP), in 1981. After Jeyaretnam was expelled from Parliament in 1986, Chiam was Singapore's sole elected opposition MP until 1991.\n\nAt the 1991 general elections, two other SDP members, Ling How Doong and Cheo Chai Chen, were also elected to Parliament. Low Thia Khiang of the WP was also elected, making a total of four opposition MPs, with Chiam effectively the leader of the opposition.\n\nIn 1992, Chiam recruited Chee Soon Juan, a psychology lecturer at the National University of Singapore, to be an SDP candidate for a by-election in the Marine Parade Group Representation Constituency. Although the SDP was unsuccessful in the by-election, the recruitment of Chee as a candidate generated considerable public interest. However differences between Chiam and Chee soon emerged. Chee was sacked from his job as a university lecturer in 1993, and publicly claimed that he had been the victim of a political vendetta by the governing People's Action Party (PAP). Chiam wanted to censure Chee for these comments, but the party's Central Executive Committee (CEC) backed Chee. Chiam then resigned as Secretary-General of the party, and was replaced by Chee. The CEC, after convening a disciplinary hearing, voted to expel Chiam from the party after he publicly criticised them. However, Chiam won a court case to prevent them from doing so on procedural grounds. The CEC then appointed Ling How Doong to replace Chiam as the party's parliamentary leader.\n\nChiam left the SDP in December 1996 and accepted an invitation to join the Singapore People's Party (which was formed by a breakaway faction of the SDP in 1994) and became its leader. Standing for his new party, he was re-elected as MP for Potong Pasir at the 1997 general election. The negative publicity generated by the disputes with Chiam affected the SDP's electoral prospects, and both Ling and Cheo lost their seats, leaving Chiam and Low Thia Khiang as the only two elected opposition MPs. Chiam and Low remained the only two opposition MPs elected at all the subsequent general elections until 2011. At the 2001 general election, Chiam won Potong Pasir for the fifth time. At the 2006 general election, he won 55.82% of the votes to claim his sixth term, defeating the PAP's Sitoh Yih Pin. He had secured 8,245 votes against 6,527 for Sitoh. For many, this was a surprise victory for Chiam, as the PAP had offered an S$80 million upgrading package for the residents of Potong Pasir and had brought in then-Senior Minister Goh Chok Tong to help the PAP's campaign in the constituency.\n\nIn early 2008, Chiam suffered a mild stroke which led to the suspension of his 'Meet-the-People' sessions. In 2011, Chiam said \"there's still remnants of the stroke which I suffered\".\n\nIn 2009, Chiam celebrated his 25th year as MP for Potong Pasir. That year, he also announced that he did not plan to stand as a candidate for Potong Pasir at the next general election (due to be held on May 2011), and would instead be a candidate in a Group Representation Constituency (GRC).\n\nIn 2010, Chiam tried to bring the Reform Party into the SDA. He reportedly accepted the conditions the Reform Party set out for joining the alliance, however the terms of entry were opposed by other members of the SDA's Council who blocked the move. In 2010 and early-2011, it was also reported that some members of the SDA's Council felt that Chiam was unable to properly fulfil his role of Chairman of the alliance, after he had cut back his political activities following his stroke in 2008. On 28 February 2011, the SDA's Council voted to relieve Chiam of his role as chairman, however the Council stressed that they still hoped to field Chiam as a candidate at the next general election. But two days later, on 2 March 2011, Chiam announced that the Singapore People's Party was withdrawing from the SDA, and that he would stand under the banner of the SPP instead of the SDA at the next general election.\n\nFor the 2011 general election, Chiam's wife, Lina Loh Woon Lee (sometimes referred to as Lina Chiam), the SPP candidate in Potong Pasir. Chiam himself became a candidate in the Bishan-Toa Payoh Group Representation Constituency. Chiam's team in Bishan-Toa Payoh GRC finished with 43% of the votes, and was defeated by the PAP team led by then-Deputy Prime Minister Wong Kan Seng. His wife Lina Chiam (Lina Loh) failed to retain his old Potong Pasir seat and was defeated by his opponent in the last two elections, the PAP's Sitoh Yih Pin, by a margin of 114 votes (0.72%). A week later, the Singapore People's Party (SPP) announced that Lina Chiam would accept an offer to become a Non-Constituency Member of Parliament as one of the best-performing losing opposition candidates.\n\nIn October 2014, 29-year-old Loke Hoe Yeong, the assistant secretary-general of SPP, released the first instalment of a two-part biography of Chiam, \"Let the People Have Him\". Published by Epigram Books, the 232-page book traced Chiam's road to Parliament, and revealed that Chiam's grandfather, Chiam Seng Poh, was a revolutionary who helped Sun Yat-sen overthrow the Qing dynasty. In addition, \"Let the People Have Him\" revealed that one of Chiam's maternal aunts, Mabel, married Kwa Soon Siew – a brother of Kwa Geok Choo, the wife of Singapore's first prime minister, Lee Kuan Yew. The second part of Chiam's biography is expected to be released in 2017.\n\nChiam qualified as a barrister at the Inner Temple in London in 1974. He then joined Philip Wong and Company as a lawyer, before starting his own law firm, Chiam and Company, in 1976.\n\nChiam retired from his law practice in 2002 to become a full-time politician.\n\nChiam has been a member of Parliament since 22 December 1984 to May 2011.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "66192", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=66192", "title": "Copyhold", "text": "Copyhold\n\nCopyhold tenure was a form of customary tenure of land common in England from the Middle Ages. The land was held according to the custom of the manor, and the mode of landholding took its name from the fact that the \"title deed\" received by the tenant was a copy of the relevant entry in the manorial court roll. A tenant who held land in this way was known as a \"copyholder\".\n\nThe privileges granted to each tenant, and the exact services he was to render to the lord of the manor in return for them, were described in the roll or book kept by the steward, who gave a copy of the relevant entry to the tenant. Consequently, these tenants were afterwards called copyholders, in contrast to freeholders. The actual term \"copyhold\" is first recorded in 1483, and \"copyholder\" in 1511-12. The specific rights and duties of copyholders varied greatly from one manor to another and many were established by custom. Initially, some works and services to the Lord were required of copyholders (4 days' work per year for example), but these were commuted later to a rent equivalent. Each manor custom laid out rights to use various resources of the land such as wood and pasture, and numbers of animals allowed on the common. Copyholds very commonly required the payment of a type of death duty called an heriot upon the decease of the copyholder; to the Lord of the manor.\n\nTwo main kinds of copyhold tenure developed:\n\nCopyhold land often did not appear in a will. This is because its inheritance was already pre-determined by custom, as just described. It could not therefore be given or devised in a will to any other person. In some instances, the executor of the estate held the copyhold for the term of one year after the decease of the testator, which was called the \"executor's year\", in parallel with the same concept in common law. Language regarding the disposal of the profits of the executor's year or of a heriot often indicates a copyhold.\n\nCopyholds were gradually enfranchised (turned into ordinary holdings of land – either freehold or 999-year leasehold) as a result of the Copyhold Acts during the 19th century. By this time, servitude to the lord of the manor was merely token, discharged on purchasing the copyhold by payment of a \"fine in respite of fealty\". The Copyhold Acts of 1841, 1843, 1844, 1852, 1858 and 1887 were consolidated in the Copyhold Act of 1894.\n\nPart V of the Law of Property Act 1925 finally extinguished the last of them.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1135075", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1135075", "title": "Creation and evolution in public education", "text": "Creation and evolution in public education\n\nThe status of creation and evolution in public education has been the subject of substantial debate and conflict in legal, political, and religious circles. Globally, there is a wide variety of views on the topic. Most western countries have legislation that mandates only evolutionary biology is to be taught in the appropriate scientific syllabuses.\n\nWhile many doctrines do not raise theological objections to the modern evolutionary synthesis as an explanation for the present form of life on Earth, various fundamentalist sects, including many churches within Christianity, have objected vehemently. Some adherents are passionately opposed to the consensus view of the scientific community. Literal interpretations of religious texts are the greatest cause of conflict with evolutionary and cosmological investigations and conclusions.\n\nInternationally, evolution is taught in science courses with limited controversy, with the exception of a few areas of the United States and several Islamic fundamentalist countries. In the United States, the Supreme Court has ruled the teaching of creationism as science in public schools to be unconstitutional, irrespective of how it may be purveyed in theological or religious instruction. In the United States, intelligent design (ID) has been represented as an alternative explanation to evolution in recent decades, but its \"demonstrably religious, cultural, and legal missions\" have been ruled unconstitutional by a lower court.\n\nAlthough creationist views are popular among religious education teachers and creationist teaching materials have been distributed by volunteers in some schools, many Australian scientists take an aggressive stance supporting the right of teachers to teach the theory of evolution, unhindered by religious restrictions.\n\nIn Brazil, teaching of creationism in scientific education classes is forbidden by the Ministry of Education (MEC). Religious education is not forbidden as such, but the federal constitution states that the union can neither impose, nor promote, nor finance any religion, because by law Brazil is a secular state. In 2004 however, teachers of religious education classes in schools of the education department of Rio de Janeiro began to present creationism in their classes as scientific fact. The practice was directly initiated by politicians in power who were promoting their personal religious views, and their action moved Brazilian scientists to protest the abuse. Subsequently, in congress a \"religious bench,\" or faction, has become increasingly influential. For example, a Brazilian senator, Marcelo Crivella, the former , publicly declared his religiously founded antagonism to evolution. Such prominent influences have drawn the attention of the defenders of the secular state.\n\n\nOn October 4, 2007, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe (PACE) adopted its Resolution 1580 titled \"The dangers of creationism in education\". The resolution observed that \"The war on the theory of evolution and on its proponents most often originates in forms of religious extremism closely linked to extreme right-wing political movements,\" and urged member states \"firmly oppose the teaching of creationism as a scientific discipline on an equal footing with the theory of evolution and in general the presentation of creationist ideas in any discipline other than religion.\"\nhttp://assembly.coe.int/nw/xml/XRef/X2H-Xref-ViewHTML.asp?FileID=11751&lang=en\n\nThe Assembly's work leading to adopting the resolution began in 2006, when several delegates of the assembly, led by British Labour Party politician Andrew McIntosh, suggested to adopt a recommendation on this theme. During drafting, the report and draft resolution were prepared by the delegate from the French Socialist Party, .\n\nThe report was returned by PACE to its Committee on Culture, Science and Education for revision in June 2007 with 63 votes against 46, at the request by the leader of the Christian Democratic group in the Assembly Luc Van den Brande. Reuters noted that calling off the debate and vote \"also won support from east European deputies, who recalled that Darwinian evolution was a favorite theory of their former communist rulers.\" The procedure used for the referral was criticized by the Assembly's Committee on Culture, Science and Education. After the revision by a new rapporteur, Anne Brasseur, a delegate from Luxembourg representing the Liberal group in the Assembly and several amendments made by the Assembly, the resolution was adopted, by 48 votes against 25.\n\nThe resolution's aim is \"to warn against certain tendencies to pass off a belief as science … the Parliamentary Assembly is worried about the possible ill-effect of the spread of creationist ideas within our education systems and about the consequences for our democracies. If we are not careful, creationism could become a threat to human rights.\" It rejects that creationism in any form, including \"intelligent design,\" can be considered scientific (Para. 4), but considers possible its inclusion in religion and cultural classes (Para. 16). The resolution concludes that teaching creationism in school as a scientific theory may threaten civil rights (Paras. 13 and 18). The resolution summarizes itself in Para. 19:\n\nAfter the rejection of Lengagne's report, the former rapporteur was interviewed on the subject by the French newspaper \"20 Minutes\", where he evaluated the events as follows: \"We are witnessing a return to the Middle Ages.\"\n\nThe resolution was criticised by deputy head of the Department for External Church Relations of the Russian Orthodox Church, Archpriest , stating that \"those few fossils presented by the anthropologists as examples of ape-human transitional forms could be explained by random mutations. We don't claim to found a new species upon finding a fish with two heads.\" and by the president of Southern Baptist Theological Seminary Albert Mohler considering that \"this can only mean that Europe (at least as represented by the Council of Europe) has forgotten even its Christian memory.\"\n\nIn February 2009, the resolution was a starting point of a conference held in Dortmund, Germany, and led by Dittmar Graf from the Dortmund University of Technology. The conference, including participation of Anne Brasseur, among others, was held in cooperation with the Max Planck Institute for Molecular Physiology, University of Vienna and Hacettepe University and with support from German Ministry of Education and Research.\n\nMichael Poole, a King's College London Visiting Research Fellow in Science and Religion and a founding member of the International Society for Science and Religion, criticised the resolution for being too restrictive while disapproving of young Earth creationism and the intelligent design movement.\n\nDeutsche Welle, covering the disagreement among members of the Assembly on whether the resolution constituted an attack on religious beliefs, and \"Die Welt\", pointing to journalists-expressed suspicions of wishing to limit freedom of conscience and Brasseur's response that the aim was to draw a line between the spheres of faith and science.\n\nOn April 25, 2007, Member of Parliament (Danish People's Party) asked Education Minister Bertel Haarder (Liberal Party of Denmark) for information about how many educational institutions had received \"The Atlas of Creation\" (2006) by Harun Yahya. The minister responded that the Ministry of Education was not in possession of information about the number of educational institutions that had received the book. Further, he stated that the choice of educational materials is decided by local school boards. Moreover, it is his view that the end goal of primary school biology instruction is to enable students to acquire the knowledge and skills needed to explain the basic elements of heredity and evolution and to address the issues related to the biological coursework.\n\nIn interview sessions during 2002, less than 10% of the interviewed Danes declared the theory of evolution as being definitely false.\n\nIranian scientific development, especially the health-related aspects of biology, has been a goal of the Islamic government since the Iranian Revolution of 1979. Since Iranian traditional practice of Shi'a religion isn't preoccupied with Qur'anic literalism as in case of fundamentalist Wahhabism but ijtihad, many influential Iranian Shi'ite scholars, including several who were closely involved in the Iranian Revolution, are not opposed to evolutionary ideas in general, disagreeing that evolution necessarily conflicts with the Muslim mainstream. Evolution is incorporated in the science curriculum starting from the 5th grade. An emphasis is placed on empirical evidence, such as the study of fossils, rather than Islamic scripture, thus portraying geologists and other types of scientists as the authoritative voices of scientific knowledge.\n\nIn the Netherlands some factions teach creationism in their own schools, besides evolution. In May 2005, a discussion on intelligent design erupted when Minister of Education Maria van der Hoeven suggested that debate about intelligent design might encourage discourse between the country's various religious groups. She sought to \"stimulate an academic debate\" on the subject. Following strong objection from some scientists, she dropped plans of holding a conference on the matter.\nAfter the 2007 elections, she was succeeded by Ronald Plasterk, described as a \"molecular geneticist, staunch atheist and opponent of intelligent design.\"\n\nIn 1986, Norway's then-Minister of Church and Education Affairs Kjell Magne Bondevik proposed new education plans for the elementary and middle school levels which included skepticism to the theory of evolution and would hold that a final answer to the origin of mankind was unknown. The proposal was withdrawn after it had generated controversy.\n\nAlthough it has been claimed that evolution is not taught in Pakistani universities; the Higher Education Commission of Pakistan, which is the federal body which sets standards of course content, has knowledge and understanding of evolution as being compulsory for several courses such as microbiology, bioinformatics, zoology, botany as well as others. In 2006, the Pakistan Academy of Sciences became a signatory of the InterAcademy Panel Statement on \"The teaching of evolution.\" Many of the contemporary titles on the creation-evolution controversy, such as those by biologist Richard Dawkins, are available for general sale.\n\nPoland saw a controversy over creationism in 2006 when Deputy Education Minister Mirosław Orzechowski denounced evolution as a lie taught in Polish schools. His superior, Minister of National Education Roman Giertych, has stated that the theory of evolution would continue to be taught in Polish schools, \"as long as most scientists in our country say that it is the right theory.\" Giertych's father, Member of the European Parliament Maciej Giertych, has however opposed the teaching of evolution and has claimed that \"in every culture there are indications that we remember dinosaurs. The Scots have Nessie; we Poles have the Wawel dragon.\"\n\nIn 1998, Ioan Moisin, a Christian Democratic senator and a Greek Catholic priest, called upon Romania's Ministry of Education to establish a commission of Catholics who would revise biology textbooks and philosophical textbooks to not contradict Biblical creationism. Moisin disapproved of students learning from their religious teachers that God created human beings and then learning to the contrary from biology and philosophy teachers that humans descend from apes as a product of evolution by Darwinian natural selection. Moisin's proposal to establish the commission also sought to form a Council of Public Morality that would feature representatives composed of teachers and clergy, to oversee public education, and to be subordinated only to the direct authority of the President of Romania. Romania's Parliament and Ministry of Education never seriously considered the latter proposals. However, starting the year 2006 and ongoing Darwinian evolution was discontinued from newly printed school books throughout the country without being reintroduced.\n\nIn December 2006, a schoolgirl in Saint Petersburg, Russia, and her father took the issue of the teaching of evolution in Russian schools to court. The Russian Ministry of Education supports the theory of evolution. Representatives of the Russian Orthodox Church backed the suit. In February 2007, the first instance court, and in July, the second instance court, ruled in favour of the Ministry.\n\nIn August 2014 the Mayor of Kazan, Il'sur Metshin, expressed surprise at schools teaching the \"theory of Darwin\".\nHe added that he intended to raise the question of the school curriculum at the federal level.\n\nA Saudi 12th-grade textbook mentions evolution by name only where it claims that Charles Darwin has \"denied Allah's creation of humanity\". The rest of the textbook focuses on descriptions of the taxonomic ranks: it makes no further mention of evolution, only quoting Qur'an verses as relevant to certain groups of animals.\n\nIn Serbia the teaching of evolution was suspended for one week in 2004, under Minister of Education and Sport Ljiljana Čolić, only allowing schools to reintroduce evolution into the curriculum if they also taught creationism. \"After a deluge of protest from scientists, teachers and opposition parties\" says the BBC report, Čolić's deputy, Milan Brdar, made the statement, \"I have come here to confirm Charles Darwin is still alive\" and announced that the decision was reversed. Čolić resigned after the government said that she had caused \"problems that had started to reflect on the work of the entire government.\"\n\nIn Turkey, a country where the majority of population is Muslim, evolution is often a controversial subject. Evolution was added to the school curriculum shortly after the Turkish Revolution of the 1920s and 30s. There was some resistance to this, such as that of Said Nursî and his followers, but opposition was not particularly powerful. In fact, some prominent Turkish scholars during the first decades of the new-born Turkish republic, such as (d. 1951), who once served as the President of Religious Affairs of Turkey, and İzmirli İsmail Hakkı (d. 1946) thought that the theory of evolution cannot be seen as contrary to Islam because it was already to be found in the classical works of Muslim theology. In the 1980s, conservatives came into power, and used the ideas of scientific creationists in the US as a method of discrediting evolution (notwithstanding material on the age of the Earth, which Islamic creationism is less specific about).\n\nOne anti-evolutionist group in Turkey is the Istanbul based \"\" (BAV), or \"Science Research Foundation,\" which was founded by Adnan Oktar in 1990. Its activities include campaigns against the teaching of evolution. It has been described as one of the strongest anti-evolution organizations outside of North America. US based creationist organizations such as the Institute for Creation Research (ICR) have worked alongside them. Some scientists have protested that anti-evolution books published by this group (such as \"The Evolution Deceit\" (1999) by Harun Yahya) have become more influential than real biology textbooks. The teaching of evolution in high schools has been fought by Ali Gören, a member of parliament and professor of medicine, who believes such education has negative effects.\n\nThe situation is very fragile, and the status of evolution in education varies from one government to the next. For example, in 1985 the Minister of National Education, Youth and Sports had scientific creationism added to high school texts, and also had the discredited Lamarckism presented alongside Darwinism. Only in 1998 was this changed somewhat, with texts presenting a more balanced view, though still mentioning creationism and Lamarckism. At present the moderate Islamist Justice and Development Party, which is sympathetic to creationist views, holds power. It was elected in 2002 and again with a greater majority in 2007.\n\nIn general, material that conflicts with religious beliefs is highly controversial in Turkey. For example, in November 2007 a prosecutor launched a probe into whether Richard Dawkins' book \"The God Delusion\" (2006) is \"an attack on religious values.\" Its publisher could face trial and up to one year in prison if the prosecutor concludes that the book \"incites religious hatred\" and insults religious values.\n\nTurkish academics who have defended evolutionary theory have received death threats, for instance Turkish biologist Aykut Kence received an email telling him to enjoy his \"final days.\" Kence helped establish the Evolution Group, whose aim is to improve public understanding of evolution. However, opposition to creationism is not very powerful; Umit Sayin, a neurologist, describes academics and universities as \"slow and sluggish\" in their response. Kence maintains that \"if knowledgeable people keep quiet, it only helps those who spread nonsense.\"\n\nIn June 2017, the education ministry announced the removal of evolution from the secondary school curriculum, scheduled to take effect in 2019; as of the date of the announcement the only other Muslim majority country where evolution is challenged in the education system was Saudi Arabia, where the concept is briefly named and heavily criticized in the curricula.\n\nIn each of the countries of the United Kingdom, there is an agreed syllabus for religious education with the right of parents to withdraw their children from these lessons. The religious education syllabus does not involve teaching creationism, but rather teaching the central tenets of major world faiths. At the same time, the teaching of evolution is compulsory in publicly funded schools. For instance, the National Curriculum for England requires that students at Key Stage 4 (14–16) be taught:\n\nSimilar requirements exist in Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland.\n\nIn 2003, the Emmanuel Schools Foundation (previously the Vardy Foundation after its founder, Sir Peter Vardy) sponsored a number of \"faith-based\" academies where evolution and creationist ideas would be taught side-by-side in science classes. This caused a considerable amount of controversy.\n\nThe former Archbishop of Canterbury, Rowan Williams, has expressed his view that creationism should not be taught in schools.\n\nAn organisation called Truth in Science has distributed teaching packs of creationist information to schools, and claims that fifty-nine schools are using the packs as \"a useful classroom resource.\" The government has stated that \"Neither intelligent design nor creationism are recognised scientific theories and they are not included in the science curriculum. The Truth in Science information pack is therefore not an appropriate resource to support the science curriculum.\" It is arranging to communicate this message directly to schools.\n\nThe teaching of creationism and intelligent design in schools in the UK is being opposed by the British Centre for Science Education (BCSE).\n\nIn the United States, creationists and proponents of evolution are engaged in a long-standing battle over the legal status of creation and evolution in the public school science classroom.\n\n"}
{"id": "55914584", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55914584", "title": "Dynamique des femmes jurists", "text": "Dynamique des femmes jurists\n\nDynamique des femmes jurists is a women's organisation in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. It was co-founded in 2006 by Nelly Mbangu, director of the Democracy Research Center, who went on to become the first president of the organisation.\n\nAt the start of the 21st century the Democratic Republic of the Congo was suffering civil war with rebels fighting against government troops. In 2003 a peace accord was negotiated and in 2006 elections were held. However years of instability had resulted in much violence in the eastern part of the country which was described as the \"rape capital of the world\".\n\nDynamique des femmes jurists was set up to provide gender equality for women. The organisation aims to empower women so that they know what their rights are and are confident in obtaining them. These rights include the right to live unmolested, to have security of land tenure, to have access to basic social services, and to have access to the courts and tribunals. The organisation aims to encourage women to take up the law as a profession and then to represent other women who need their services, also to join trade unions, to participate in politics and to join in decision-making bodies in both the public and private sectors. The organisation also offers psychological help to survivors of rape and female genital mutilation. \n"}
{"id": "25992370", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25992370", "title": "Embassy of Montenegro in Tirana", "text": "Embassy of Montenegro in Tirana\n\nThe Montenegrin Embassy inTirana (Montenegrin: Ambasada Crne Gore u Tirani) is Montenegro's diplomatic mission to the Albania. It is located at Rr. Jul Varibova 11.\n\nThe current Ambassador of Montenegro to the Albania is Željko Perović.\n\n"}
{"id": "37706046", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37706046", "title": "Escape Fire: The Fight to Rescue American Healthcare", "text": "Escape Fire: The Fight to Rescue American Healthcare\n\nEscape Fire: The Fight to Rescue American Healthcare is a 2012 feature-length documentary directed by Matthew Heineman and Susan Froemke and released by Roadside Attractions. \"Escape Fire\" premiered at the Sundance Film Festival, opened in select theaters on October 5, 2012, and was simultaneously released on iTunes and Video-on-Demand. The film was released on DVD in February 2013 and premiered on CNN on March 10, 2013.\n\nSince \"Escape Fire\" premiered at Sundance, the film has been mentioned or reviewed in the \"Wall Street Journal\", \"Forbes\", \"New York\" magazine, \"Los Angeles Times\", \"Variety\", \"The Hollywood Reporter\" and other media outlets. The film received generally positive reviews, with an aggregate score of 67 on Metacritic and 81% on Rotten Tomatoes. It was a \"New York Times\", \"New York\" magazine, and \"Washington Post\" Critics’ Pick.\n\n\nIn the research phase of \"Escape Fire\", the filmmakers came across an influential speech delivered by Dr. Donald Berwick years before he took office as the head of Medicare and Medicaid. The speech was published as a healthcare manifesto called “Escape Fire: Lessons for the Future of Healthcare.”\n\nDr. Berwick draws a parallel between American healthcare and a 1949 Mann Gulch fire in Montana. Just as the healthcare system lies perilously on the brink of combustion, the forest fire that seemed harmless at first was waiting to explode. A team of fifteen smoke-jumpers parachuted in to contain the fire, but soon they were running for their lives, racing to the top of a steep ridge. Their foreman, Wag Dodge, recognized that they would not make it.\n\nWith the fire barely two hundred yards behind him, he invented an on-the-spot solution. He took some matches out of his pocket, bent down and set fire to the grass directly in front of him. The fire spread quickly uphill, and he stepped into the middle of the newly burnt area, calling for his crew to join him.\n\nThe crew did not, and the fire raged past Wag Dodge and overtook the crew, killing thirteen men and burning 3,200 acres. Dodge survived, nearly unharmed.\n\nDodge had invented what is now called an “escape fire,” and soon after it became standard practice. As Berwick says in the film, “We’re in Mann Gulch. Healthcare, it’s in really bad trouble. The answer is among us. Can we please stop and think and make sense of the situation and get our way out of it?”\n\nSince the film’s Sundance premiere in January 2012, \"Escape Fire\" has been at the center of an outreach campaign to engage general, educational, professional and institutional audiences interested in changing health and healthcare at the individual, community and national level. The \"Escape Fire\" website, provides consumer and educational tools for the outreach and engagement campaign. It includes a virtual First Aid Kit, with innovative tools for individuals to change themselves and their communities. A 28-page discussion guide is provided on the site for screening organizers, facilitators and educators. Background information is available on the key healthcare issues addressed in the film, including problems of over-medication; paying more and getting less; reimbursement for services not quality of care, and the need for more systemic support of disease prevention.\n\nAfter viewing a military screening of the film, Senator Richard Blumenthal (D-CT) was inspired to address the issue, and successfully ushered through a bi-partisan amendment to the National Defense Authorization Act, which passed the Senate in late 2012. This amendment would allow the VA to take back controlled substances - such as pharmaceutical drugs - from soldiers to prevent overmedication and suicide. The amendment did not win final passage in the 112th Congress, which ended on January 3, 2013, but is expected to be re-introduced in the Spring of 2013.\n\n"}
{"id": "18753871", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18753871", "title": "Flemish-Socialist Movement", "text": "Flemish-Socialist Movement\n\nThe (Flemish-Socialist Movement) is a left-wing nationalist political group that advocates Flemish independence. Founded in 2007, the organization traces its roots to a party with the same name that existed in the 1970s and 1980s. The organization \"aims towards the creation of a socialist society with equal opportunities, rights and duties for all of its inhabitants in an independent Flanders, away from any antidemocratic and capitalist supranational structures, but in cooperation and solidarity with other freedom loving nations and states.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "28107201", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28107201", "title": "Government Documents Department (University of Florida)", "text": "Government Documents Department (University of Florida)\n\nThe Government Documents Department is a part of the George A. Smathers Libraries at the University of Florida. The Government Documents Department is located at the off-campus Auxiliary Library Facility (ALF). The Government Documents Department receives government publications from all levels of government (local, county, state, and national), and from many areas around the world. The Government Documents staff performs both technical and public service functions in an effort to make this resource of government information available to both the University of Florida community and the public at large; Government Documents Department staff also have prepared LibGuides (research and information guides) on various topics to assist patrons. \n\nThe Government Documents department is a Regional Federal Depository for Florida, Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands. The Government Documents Department also serves as a regional depository for U.S. Federal documents. As such, the Department receives and permanently retains one depository copy of every publication the U.S. Government Printing Office distributes through the Federal Depository Library Program The Government Documents Department is also a depository for the Government of Florida and European Union documents. The Government Documents Library also houses publications from the University of Florida,international governmental organizations (such as the United Nations, the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development and UNESCO.\n\nThe Government Documents Library was declared a Federal Depository Library in 1907, and became a Regional Depository Library in 1964. Until 2004, the collection was housed in Library West at the University of Florida; before moving to the first floor of the University of Florida Marston Science Library for several years. The collection is now located at the Auxiliary Library Facility.\n\nAs a member of the Association of South East Research Libraries (ASERL), the University of Florida George A. Smathers Libraries are participating in the Collaborative Federal Depository Program which encourages member Regional Depository Libraries to become Centers of Excellence for specific government agencies. The Centers of Excellence accept a role as stewards of these collections, agreeing to collect, catalog, and preserve publications produced by a given agency or published by the government around a certain them. The UF Libraries have committed to becoming a Center of Excellence for the Panama Canal Commission (PCC) and its preceding institutions as well as on the topic of the Panama Canal. As an additional step in this project, the UF Libraries have decided to digitize the material in this collection. As they are scanned, titles become available at Internet Archive and are then also made available the UF libraries catalog. [Note: The phrase center of excellence is used here as it is used within the U.S. Federal Depository Library Program to identify a library establishing a collection and related services focused on a specific Federal agency or subject area represented by Federal documents. This is distinct from, and unrelated to, the Florida program of the same name that is intended to bridge the gap between academia and industry.]\n\n"}
{"id": "24803285", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24803285", "title": "Gyorin", "text": "Gyorin\n\nGyorin (lit. \"neighborly relations\") was a neo-Confucian term developed in Joseon Korea. The term was intended to identify and characterize a diplomatic policy which establishes and maintains amicable relations with neighboring states. It was construed and understood in tandem with a corollary term, which was the \"sadae\" or \"serving the great\" policy towards Imperial China.\n\nConfucian learning contributed in the formation of \"gyorin\" and \"sadae\" as ritual, conceptual and normative frameworks for construing interactions and political decision-making.\n\nThe rationale expressed by \"gyorin\" was applied to a multi-national foreign policy. Scholarly writing about the Joseon dynasty has tended to focus on diplomatic relations with China and Japan, but the intermediary nature of \"gyorin\" contacts—for example, Joseon-Ryukyuan diplomatic and trading contacts—were important as well. Envoys from the Ryūkyū Kingdom were received by Taejo of Joseon in 1392, 1394 and 1397. Siam sent an envoy to Taejo's court in 1393.\n\nThe long-term, strategic \"gyorin\" policy played out in bilateral diplomacy and trade dealings with Jurchen, Japan, Ryūkyū Kingdom, Siam and others. Over time, diplomatic and trade policies were perceived by Joseon's partners as the traditional door through which trends in neo-Confucian philosophical principles were recognized.\n\nThe Joseon kingdom made every effort to maintain a friendly bilateral relationship with China for reasons having to do with both \"realpolitik\" and a more idealist Confucian worldview wherein China was seen as the center of a Confucian moral universe. Joseon diplomacy was no less aware and sensitive to \"realpolitik\" in the implementation of \"gyorin\" policy.\n\nThe unique nature of \"gyorin\" bilateral diplomatic exchanges evolved from a conceptual framework developed by the Chinese. Gradually, the theoretical models would be modified, mirroring the evolution of a unique relationship.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1438445", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1438445", "title": "Henry M. Morris", "text": "Henry M. Morris\n\nHenry Madison Morris (October 6, 1918 – February 25, 2006) was an American young Earth creationist, Christian apologist, and engineer. He was one of the founders of the Creation Research Society and the Institute for Creation Research. He is considered by many to be \"the father of modern creation science.\" He is widely known for coauthoring \"The Genesis Flood\" with John C. Whitcomb in 1961.\n\nAs Morris believed in the biblical literalism and inerrancy, he opposed the billions-of-years time scales of evolution, the age of the Earth, and the age of the Universe that he saw as being contrary to it. Morris' influential approach, while adopted widely by the modern creationist movement, continues to be rejected by the mainstream scientific community, as well as by old Earth creationists and theistic evolutionists.\n\nMorris was born in Dallas on October 6, 1918, grew up in Texas in the 1920s and 1930s, and graduated from Rice University with a bachelor's degree in civil engineering in 1939. He married Mary Louise on January 24, 1940, and they later had six children. They were married until Morris's death in 2006.\n\nWhile Morris was religiously indifferent during his youth, shortly after his graduation from Rice in 1939, Morris became a Christian and accepted the Bible, from Genesis through Revelation, as the infallible and literal word of God.\n\nAfter graduating in 1939, Morris served as an hydraulic engineer working with the International Boundary and Water Commission (1939-1942). He returned to Rice, teaching civil engineering from 1942 until 1946, where he also wrote a short book, \"That You Might Believe\" (1946). Attempting to answer the claims of evolution, he found the works of Harry Rimmer in his book, Theory of Evolution and the Facts of Science, \"which more than any other work convinced him 'once and for all that evolution was false.'\" From 1946-1951, he studied at the University of Minnesota, where he earned a master's degree in hydraulics (1948) and a Ph.D. in hydraulic engineering (1950). In 1949, he joined the American Scientific Association as a correspondent in an attempt to change the views of the association. In 1951, he became a professor and chair of civil engineering at the University of Louisiana at Lafayette and served as the Acting Dean of Engineering in the fall of 1956. Morris then served as a professor of applied science at Southern Illinois University in 1957.\n\nIn 1959, Morris moved to the Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University (Virginia Tech) to serve as Professor of Civil Engineering in the area of hydraulics, and to serve as department chair for civil engineering. There, Morris co-authored an advanced text on engineering hydraulics with J.M. Wiggert that was used in many universities, and under a decade of leadership the department became one of the country's largest civil engineering departments. While Morris' religious views and writings were controversial among university biology and geology faculty, and in the broader debate, it has been reported that Morris \"kept his own counsel on [them], unless... pressed\", such that his university engineering colleagues respected Morris as \"a good administrator\" and his religious views \"because they never influenced his [administration]\".\n\nIn 1961, Morris coauthored \"The Genesis Flood\" with John C. Whitcomb, which some regard as the first significant attempt in the 20th century to offer a systematic scientific explanation for creationism. The book was very influential on modern creationist thought, and Stephen Jay Gould, a critic of Morris, called it \"the founding document of the creationist movement.\"\n\nIn 1963, while yet at Virginia Tech, Morris and nine others founded the Creation Research Society, and Morris continued his creationist writing and speaking. Morris eventually left his faculty position at Virginia Tech in 1970 to focus on his work in creationism, after university interactions with a new engineering dean who directed Morris not to list creationist works alongside his engineering publications, viewing his non-engineering writings and increasing persona to be \"too controversial.\" Morris is quoted as having said that these directions \"seemed like... the handwriting on the wall that they didn't want me to stay...\" and that \"[Dean Willis] Worchester was happy... when I submitted my resignation\".\n\nIn 1970, Morris co-founded the Christian Heritage College in Santee, California which led to formation of the Institute for Creation Research (ICR) in 1972. He served as President of Christian Heritage College from 1978 to 1980. Additionally, Morris served as President, and as President Emeritus of ICR from 1970-1995 and 1996-2006, respectively. His son, John D. Morris, took over the presidency of ICR when his father retired.\n\nOn February 1, 2006, Morris suffered a minor stroke and was hospitalized. Morris was moved from the hospital to a rehabilitation facility near his son's home (and ICR) in Santee, California where he died.\n\nMorris has been considered by many to be \"the father of modern creation science\", and was \"arguably the most influential creationist of the 20th century.\" Morris helped create the modern school of thought based on a belief in biblical inerrancy and a literal interpretation of Genesis. It is a system Morris called \"Scientific Creationism\" that opposes the mainstream scientific community regarding the history of the earth and the universe. Morris found an audience among preachers and home school teachers all over America, where 46% of the public holds some form of creationist belief.\n\nMorris was the primary source for much of the argumentation used by young Earth creationists when rejecting primary ideas in mainstream science, from the expanding universe to plate tectonics to biological evolution to genetics.\n\nMorris's book, \"The Genesis Flood\", coauthored by John C. Whitcomb, was very influential on modern creationist belief, and by the time of Morris's death, it was in its 44th printing and sold 250,000 English copies. While the greater bulk of his published writings address creation science and evolution themes, he had also written \"Many Infallible Proofs\", and \"The Bible Has The Answer\", which are both works of general Christian apologetics.\n\nIn 1995, Morris completed \"The Defenders Study Bible\" which includes his scientific & theological notes accompanying the King James Version. Just prior to his death in 2006 he completed a significant expansion of that work titled \"The New Defender's Study Bible\". In May 2012 \"The New Defenders Study Bible\" was updated and released as \"The Henry Morris Study Bible\".\n\nIn addition, during his lifetime, Morris published eleven articles on hydraulics in technical journals as well as hundreds of other articles and booklets on Biblical or creationist topics. From 1985 to 2002, he published \"Days of Praise\", a monthly devotional booklet that contained a devotional Bible commentary for each day, which illustrated his spiritual focus.\n\nMany in the scientific community have said that Morris' representation of evolution as a complete religious system is a straw man. In particular, Massimo Pigliucci criticized Morris' omission of material that interfered with his \"mission\" and \"beliefs\". Pigliucci also criticized Morris' interpretation of thermodynamics. Morris' position had also been the subject of debate among Evangelical scholars of the Old Testament and among Evangelicals working in various fields of science.\n\nIn \"Evolution & the Modern Christian\" (1967), Morris hoped to \"open the minds and hearts of young people to the true Biblical cosmology.\" T.E. Fenton, Professor of Agronomy at Iowa State University, wrote \"scientific value of the book is nil; the author selectively chooses the areas of science that he accepts and rejects other areas of accepted science\". David Vogel, Professor of Biology at Creighton University, reviewed the book explaining \"his theology is shallow; his exegesis is maddening; his science is wrong; and he tops it off by offending millions of Bible-believing Christians who also accept evolution\".\n\nMorris' book \"Scientific Creationism\" (1974 and 1984), according to Herman Kirkpatrick, \"is not very convincing evidence to support the recent creation of the earth\". Thomas Wheeler, Professor of biochemistry at University of Louisville, reviewed the second edition and concluded, \"\"Scientific Creationism\" cannot be recommended for use in public school classes, or indeed anyone interested in learning science\". Wheeler cited what he claimed was Morris' misunderstanding of science, appeals to religious prejudice, misrepresentation of scientific knowledge, omission of opposing science, double standards in evidence, \"absurd conclusions,\" inappropriate and misidentified sources, attacks on scientists, using discredited arguments, and \"silly calculations\".\n\nMorris' work with John C. Whitcomb, \"The Genesis Flood\", has been criticized for taking quotes out of context and misquoting sources. For example, in one instance, a source which read \"the sea which vanished so many million years ago\" was quoted as \"the sea which vanished so many years ago.\" Geologist John G. Solum has criticized the work for being inaccurate. Solum said \"Whitcomb and Morris are mistaken about the nature of the rocks associated with thrust faults. Their claim about fossils is based on a Young Earth creationist misunderstanding of how rocks are dated relative to each other, and how the geologic column was constructed.\" Additionally, Solum said \"Morris' explanation of relative dating is not merely 'somewhat oversimplified' - it is entirely incorrect.\"\n\nIn \"The Long War Against God: The History and Impact of the Creation/Evolution Conflict\" (1989) Morris wrote that \"the denial of God – rejecting the reality of supernatural creation and the creator's sovereign rule of the world – has always been the root cause of every human problem.\" Morris was criticized by Randy Moore, of University of Minnesota, for writing in the book that \"evolutionism\" is satanic and responsible for racism, abortion, and a decline in morality.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1651943", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1651943", "title": "Herritarren Zerrenda", "text": "Herritarren Zerrenda\n\nThe Herritarren Zerrenda (HZ, ; ) is a Basque nationalist political party in Spain and France, created in 2004 to run in the European Parliament election. Since these elections were simultaneous throughout the European Union, and states were represented as single constituencies, Herritarren Zerrenda aspired for results at the national level in both countries.\n\nHZ aspired to group and represent the Abertzale Left, including the outlawed Batasuna (as Autodeterminaziorako Bilgunea had done a year before). In France they ran on a single list with Batasuna (as the party is not illegal north of the border) - a fact which did not constitute a violation of the Spanish laws. \n\nIn Spain, HZ counted on obtaining seats in Strasbourg (as Batasuna and its coalition \"Euskal Herritarrok\" had previously done). The possibility was slimmer in France, due to the small percentage of Basques of Iparralde in the country as a whole, as well as to the reduced support for Batasuna.\n\nIn the end, HZ called for a blank vote, and its voters cast ballots valid only in the French constituency. The group dissolved after the elections.\n"}
{"id": "4999816", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4999816", "title": "History of military technology", "text": "History of military technology\n\nThe military funding of science has had a powerful transformative effect on the practice and products of scientific research since the early 20th century. Particularly since World War I, advanced science-based technologies have been viewed as essential elements of a successful military.\n\nWorld War I is often called \"the chemists’ war\", both for the extensive use of poison gas and the importance of nitrates and advanced high explosives. Poison gas, beginning in 1915 with chlorine from the powerful German dye industry, was used extensively by the Germans and the British ; over the course of the war, scientists on both sides raced to develop more and more potent chemicals and devise countermeasures against the newest enemy gases. Physicists also contributed to the war effort, developing wireless communication technologies and sound-based methods of detecting U-boats, resulting in the first tenuous long-term connections between academic science and the military.\n\nWorld War II marked a massive increase in the military funding of science, particularly physics. In addition to the Manhattan Project and the resulting atomic bomb, British and American work on radar was widespread and ultimately highly influential in the course of the war; radar enabled detection of enemy ships and aircraft, as well as the radar-based proximity fuze. Mathematical cryptography, meteorology, and rocket science were also central to the war effort, with military-funded wartime advances having a significant long-term effect on each discipline. The technologies employed at the end—jet aircraft, radar and proximity fuzes, and the atomic bomb—were radically different from pre-war technology; military leaders came to view continued advances in technology as the critical element for success in future wars. The advent of the Cold War solidified the links between military institutions and academic science, particularly in the United States and the Soviet Union, so that even during a period of nominal peace military funding continued to expand. Funding spread to the social sciences as well as the natural sciences, and whole new fields, such as digital computing, were born of military patronage. Following the end of the Cold War and the dissolution of the Soviet Union, military funding of science has decreased substantially, but much of the American military-scientific complex remains in place.\n\nThe sheer scale of military funding for science since World War II has instigated a large body of historical literature analyzing the effects of that funding, especially for American science. Since Paul Forman’s 1987 article “Behind quantum electronics: National security as a basis for physical research in the United State, 1940-1960,” there has been an ongoing historical debate over precisely how and to what extent military funding affected the course of scientific research and discovery. Forman and others have argued that military funding fundamentally redirected science—particularly physics—toward applied research, and that military technologies predominantly formed the basis for subsequent research even in areas of basic science; ultimately the very culture and ideals of science were colored by extensive collaboration between scientists and military planners. An alternate view has been presented by Daniel Kevles, that while military funding provided many new opportunities for scientists and dramatically expanded the scope of physical research, scientists by-and-large retained their intellectual autonomy.\n\nWhile there were numerous instances of military support for scientific work before the 20th century, these were typically isolated instances; knowledge gained from technology was generally far more important for the development of science than scientific knowledge was to technological innovation. Thermodynamics, for example, is a science partly born from military technology: one of the many sources of the first law of thermodynamics was Count Rumford’s observation of the heat produced by boring cannon barrels. Mathematics was important in the development of the Greek catapult and other weapons, but analysis of ballistics was also important for the development of mathematics, while Galileo tried to promote the telescope as a military instrument to the military-minded Republic of Venice before turning it to the skies while seeking the patronage of the Medici court in Florence. In general, craft-based innovation, disconnected from the formal systems of science, was the key to military technology well into the 19th century.\nEven craft-based military technologies were not generally produced by military funding. Instead, craftsmen and inventors developed weapons and military tools independently and actively sought the interest of military patrons afterward. Following the rise of engineering as a profession in the 18th century, governments and military leaders did try to harness the methods of both science and engineering for more specific ends, but frequently without success. In the decades leading up to the French Revolution, French artillery officers were often trained as engineers, and military leaders from this mathematical tradition attempted to transform the process of weapons manufacture from a craft-based enterprise to an organized and standardized system based on engineering principles and interchangeable parts (pre-dating the work of Eli Whitney in the U.S.). During the Revolution, even natural scientists participated directly, attempting to create “weapons more powerful than any we possess” to aid the cause of the new French Republic, though there were no means for the revolutionary army to fund such work. Each of these efforts, however, was ultimately unsuccessful in producing militarily useful results. A slightly different outcome came from the longitude prize of the 18th century, offered by the British government for an accurate method of determining a ship’s longitude at sea (essential for the safe navigation of the powerful British navy): intended to promote—and financially reward—a scientific solution, it was instead won by a scientific outsider, the clockmaker John Harrison. However, the naval utility of astronomy did help increase the number of capable astronomers and focus research on developing more powerful and versatile instruments.\n\nThrough the 19th century, science and technology grew closer together, particularly through electrical and acoustic inventions and the corresponding mathematical theories. The late 19th and early 20th centuries witnessed a trend toward military mechanization, with the advent of repeating rifles with smokeless powder, long-range artillery, high explosives, machine guns, and mechanized transport along with telegraphic and later wireless battlefield communication. Still, independent inventors, scientists and engineers were largely responsible for these drastic changes in military technology (with the exception of the development of battleships, which could only have been created through organized large-scale effort).\n\nWorld War I marked the first large-scale mobilization of science for military purposes. Prior to the war, the American military ran a few small laboratories as well as the Bureau of Standards, but independent inventors and industrial firms predominated. Similarly in Europe, military-directed scientific research and development was minimal. The powerful new technologies that led to trench warfare, however, reversed the traditional advantage of fast-moving offensive tactics; fortified positions supported by machine guns and artillery resulted in high attrition but strategic stalemate. Militaries turned to scientists and engineers for even newer technologies, but the introduction of tanks and aircraft had only a marginal impact; the use of poison gas made a tremendous psychological impact, but decisively favored neither side. The war ultimately turned on maintaining adequate supplies of materials, a problem also addressed by military-funded science—and, through the international chemical industry, closely related to the advent of chemical warfare.\n\nThe Germans introduced gas as a weapon in part because naval blockades limited their supply of nitrate for explosives, while the massive German dye industry could easily produce chlorine and organic chemicals in large amounts. Industrial capacity was completely mobilized for war, and Fritz Haber and other industrial scientists were eager to contribute to the German cause; soon they were closely integrated into the military hierarchy as they tested the most effective ways of producing and delivering weaponized chemicals. Though the initial impetus for gas warfare came from outside the military, further developments in chemical weapon technology might be considered military-funded, considering the blurring of lines between industry and nation in Germany.\nFollowing the first chlorine attack by the Germans in May 1915, the British quickly moved to recruit scientists for developing their own gas weapons. Gas research escalated on both sides, with chlorine followed by phosgene, a variety of tear gases, and mustard gas. A wide array of research was conducted on the physiological effects of other gases, such and hydrogen cyanide, arsenic compounds, and a host of complex organic chemicals. The British built from scratch what became an expansive research facility at Porton Down, which remains a significant military research institution into the 21st century. Unlike many earlier military-funded scientific ventures, the research at Porton Down did not stop when the war ended or an immediate goal was achieved. In fact, every effort was made to create an attractive research environment for top scientists, and chemical weapons development continued apace—though in secret—through the interwar years and into World War II. German military-backed gas warfare research did not resume until the Nazi era, following the 1936 discovery of tabun, the first nerve agent, through industrial insecticide research.\n\nIn the United States, the established tradition of engineering was explicitly competing with the rising discipline of physics for World War I military largess. A host of inventors, led by Thomas Edison and his newly created Naval Consulting Board, cranked out thousands of inventions to solve military problems and aid the war effort, while academic scientists worked through the National Research Council (NRC) led by Robert Millikan. Submarine detection was the most important problem that both the physicists and inventors hoped to solve, as German U-boats were decimating the crucial naval supply lines from the U.S. to England. Edison’s Board produced very few useful innovations, but NRC research resulted in a moderately successful sound-based methods for locating submarines and hidden ground-based artillery, as well as useful navigational and photographic equipment for aircraft. Because of the success of academic science in solving specific military problems, the NRC was retained after the war’s end, though it gradually decoupled from the military.\n\nMany industrial and academic chemists and physicists came under military control during the Great War, but post-war research by the Royal Engineers Experimental Station at Porton Down and the continued operation of the National Research Council were exceptions to the overall pattern; wartime chemistry funding was a temporary redirection of a field largely driven by industry and later medicine, while physics grew closer to industry than to the military. The discipline of modern meteorology, however, was largely built from military funding. During World War I, the French civilian meteorological infrastructure was largely absorbed into the military. The introduction of military aircraft during the war as well as the role of wind and weather in the success or failure of gas attacks meant meteorological advice was in high demand. The French army (among others) created its own supplementary meteorological service as well, retraining scientists from other fields to staff it. At war's end, the military continued to control French meteorology, sending weathermen to French colonial interests and integrating weather service with the growing air corps; most of the early-twentieth century growth in European meteorology was the direct result of military funding. World War II would result in a similar transformation of American meteorology, initiating a transition from an apprenticeship system for training weathermen (based on intimate knowledge of local trends and geography) to the university-based, science-intensive system that has predominated since.\n\nIf World War I was the chemists’ war, World War II was the physicists’ war. As with other total wars, it is difficult to draw a line between military funding and more spontaneous military-scientific collaboration during World War II. Well before the Invasion of Poland, nationalism was a powerful force in the German physics community (see Deutsche Physik); the military mobilization of physicists was all but irresistible after the rise of National Socialism. German and Allied investigations of the possibility of a nuclear bomb began in 1939 at the initiative of civilian scientists, but by 1942 the respective militaries were heavily involved. The German nuclear energy project had two independent teams, a civilian-controlled team under Werner Heisenberg and a military-controlled led by Kurt Diebner; the latter was more explicitly aimed at producing a bomb (as opposed to a power reactor) and received much more funding from the Nazis, though neither was ultimately successful.\n\nIn the U.S., the Manhattan Project and other projects of the Office of Scientific Research and Development resulted in a much more extensive military-scientific venture, the scale of which dwarfed previous military-funded research projects. Theoretical work by a number of British and American scientists resulted in significant optimism about the possibility of a nuclear chain reaction. As the physicists convinced military leaders of the potential of nuclear weapons, funding for actual development was ratcheted up rapidly. A number of large laboratories were created across the United States for work on different aspects of the bomb, while many existing facilities were reoriented to bomb-related work; some were university-managed while others were government-run, but all were ultimately funded and directed by the military. The May 1945 surrender of Germany, the original intended target for the bomb, did virtually nothing to slow the project’s momentum. After Japan’s surrender immediately following the atomic bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki, many scientists returned to academia or industry, but the Manhattan Project infrastructure was too large—and too effective—to be dismantled wholesale; it became the model for future military-scientific work, in the U.S. and elsewhere.\n\nOther wartime physics research, particularly in rocketry and radar technology, was less significant in popular culture but much more significant for the outcome of the war. German rocketry was driven by the pursuit of \"Wunderwaffen\", resulting in the V-2 ballistic missile; the technology as well as the personal expertise of the German rocketry community was absorbed by the U.S. and the U.S.S.R. rocket programs after the war, forming the basis of long-term military funded rocketry, ballistic missile, and later space research. Rocket science was only beginning to make impact by the final years of the war. German rockets created fear and destruction in London, but had only modest military significance, while air-to-ground rockets enhanced the power of American air strikes; jet aircraft also went into service by the end of the war. Radar work before and during the war provided even more of an advantage for the Allies. British physicists pioneered long-wave radar, developing an effective system for detecting incoming German air forces. Work on potentially more precise short-wave radar was turned over to the U.S.; several thousand academic physicists and engineers not participating the Manhattan Project did radar work, particularly at MIT and Stanford, resulting in microwave radar systems that could resolve more detail in incoming flight formations. Further refinement of microwave technology led to proximity fuzes, which greatly enhanced the ability of the U.S. Navy to defend against Japanese bombers. Microwave production, detection and manipulation also formed the technical foundation to complement the institutional foundation of the Manhattan Project in much post-war defense research.\n\nIn the years immediately following World War II, the military was by far the most significant patron of university science research in the U.S., and the national labs also continued to flourish. After two years in political limbo (but with work on nuclear power and bomb manufacture continuing apace) the Manhattan Project became a permanent arm of the government as the Atomic Energy Commission. The Navy—inspired by the success of military-directed wartime research—created its own R&D organization, the Office of Naval Research, which would preside over an expanded long-term research program at Naval Research Laboratory as well as fund a variety of university-based research. Military money following up the wartime radar research led to explosive growth in both electronics research and electronics manufacturing. The Air Force became an independent service branch from the Army and established its own research and development system, and the Army followed suit (though it was less invested in academic science than the Navy or Air Force). Meanwhile, the perceived communist menace of the Soviet Union caused tensions—and military budgets—to escalate rapidly.\n\nThe Department of Defense primarily funded what has been broadly described as “physical research,” but to reduce this to merely chemistry and physics is misleading. Military patronage benefited a large number of fields, and in fact helped create a number of the modern scientific disciplines. At Stanford and MIT, for example, electronics, aerospace engineering, nuclear physics, and materials science—all physics, broadly speaking—each developed in different directions, becoming increasingly independent of parent disciplines as they grew and pursued defense-related research agendas. What began as interdepartmental laboratories became the centers for graduate teaching and research innovation thanks to the broad scope of defense funding. The need to keep up with corporate technology research (which was receiving the lion’s share of defense contracts) also prompted many science labs to establish close relationships with industry.\n\nThe complex histories of computer science and computer engineering were shaped, in the first decades of digital computing, almost entirely by military funding. Most of the basic component technologies for digital computing were developed through the course of the long-running Whirlwind-SAGE program to develop an automated radar shield. Virtually unlimited funds enabled two decades of research that only began producing useful technologies by the end of the 50s; even the final version of the SAGE command and control system had only marginal military utility. More so than with previously-established disciplines receiving military funding, the culture of computer science was permeated with a Cold War military perspective. Indirectly, the ideas of computer science also had a profound effect on psychology, cognitive science and neuroscience through the mind-computer analogy.\n\nThe history of earth science and the history of astrophysics were also closely tied to military purposes and funding throughout the Cold War. American geodesy, oceanography, and seismology grew from small sub-disciplines in into full-fledged independent disciplines as for several decades, virtually all funding in these fields came from the Department of Defense. A central goal that tied these disciplines together (even while providing the means for intellectual independence) was the figure of the Earth, the model of the earth’s geography and gravitation that was essential for accurate ballistic missiles. In the 1960s, geodesy was the superficial goal of the satellite program CORONA, while military reconnaissance was in fact a driving force. Even for geodetic data, new secrecy guidelines worked to restrict collaboration in a field that had formerly been fundamentally international; the Figure of the Earth had geopolitical significance beyond questions of pure geoscience. Still, geodesists were able to retain enough autonomy and subvert secrecy limitations enough to make use of the findings of their military research to overturn some of the fundamental theories of geodesy. Like geodesy and satellite photography research, the advent of radio astronomy had a military purpose hidden beneath official astrophysical research agenda. Quantum electronics permitted both revolutionary new methods of analyzing the universe and—using the same equipment and technology—the monitoring of Soviet electronic signals.\n\nMilitary interest in (and funding of) seismology, meteorology and oceanography was in some ways a result of the defense-related payoffs of physics and geodesy. The immediate goal of funding in these fields was to detect clandestine nuclear testing and track fallout radiation, a necessary precondition for treaties to limit the nuclear weapon technology earlier military research had created. In particular, the feasibility of monitoring underground nuclear explosions was crucial to the possibility of a comprehensive rather than Partial Nuclear Test Ban Treaty. But the military-funded growth of these disciplines continued even when no pressing military goals were driving them; as with other natural sciences, the military also found value in having ‘scientists on tap’ for unforeseen future R&D needs.\n\nThe biological sciences were also affected by military funding, but, with the exception of nuclear physics-related medical and genetic research, largely indirectly. The most significant funding sources for basic research before the rise of the military-industrial-academic complex were philanthropic organizations such as the Rockefeller Foundation. After World War II (and to some extent before), the influx of new industrial and military funding opportunities for the physical sciences prompted philanthropies to divest from physics research—most early work in high-energy physics and biophysics had been the product of foundation grants—and refocus on biological and medical research.\n\nThe social sciences also found limited military support from the 1940s to the 1960s, but much defense-minded social science research could be—and was—pursued without extensive military funding. In the 1950s, social scientists tried to emulate the interdisciplinary organizational success of the physical sciences’ Manhattan Project with the synthetic behavioral science movement. Social scientists actively sought to promote their usefulness to the military, researching topics related to propaganda (put to use in Korea), decision making, the psychological and sociological causes and effects of communism, and a broad constellation of other topics of Cold War significance. By the 1960s, economists and political scientists offered up modernization theory for the cause of Cold War nation-building; modernization theory found a home in the military in the form of Project Camelot, a study of the process of revolution, as well as in the Kennedy administration’s approach to the Vietnam War. Project Camelot was ultimately canceled because of the concerns it raised about scientific objectivity in the context of such a politicized research agenda; though natural sciences were not yet susceptible to implications of the corrupting influence of military and political factors, the social sciences were.\n\nHistorian Paul Forman, in his seminal 1987 article, proposed that not only had military funding of science greatly expanded the scope and significance of American physics, it also initiated \"a qualitative change in its purposes and character.\" Historians of science were beginning to turn to the Cold War relationship between science and the military for detailed study, and Forman’s “distortionist critique” (as Roger Geiger has described it) served to focus the ensuing debates. Forman and others (e.g., Robert Seidel, Stuart Leslie, and for the history of the social sciences, Ron Robin) view the influx of military money and the focus on applied rather than basic research as having had, at least partially, a negative impact on the course of subsequent research. In turn, critics of the distortionist thesis, beginning with Daniel Kevles, deny that the military \"seduced American physicists from, so to speak, a 'true basic physics'.\" Kevles, as well as Geiger, instead view the effects of military funding relative to such funding simply being absent—rather than put to alternate scientific use. Most recent scholarship has moved toward a tempered version of Forman's thesis, in which scientists retained significant autonomy despite the radical changes brought about by military funding.\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "4157940", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4157940", "title": "History of the United States Republican Party", "text": "History of the United States Republican Party\n\nThe Republican Party, also referred to as the GOP (abbreviation for Grand Old Party), is one of the world's oldest extant political parties. The party values reflect economic conservatism, classical conservatism (modern day American conservatism) and corporate liberty rights. It is the second oldest existing political party in the United States after its primary rival, the Democratic Party. The party emerged in 1854 to combat the Kansas–Nebraska Act, an act that dissolved the terms of the Missouri Compromise and allowed slave or free status to be decided in the territories by popular sovereignty. The early Republican Party had almost no presence in the Southern United States, but by 1858 it had enlisted former Whigs and former Free Soil Democrats to form majorities in nearly every Northern state.\n\nWith its election of Abraham Lincoln in 1860 and its success in guiding the Union to victory in the American Civil War and abolishing slavery, the party came to dominate the national political scene until 1932. The Republican Party at its beginning consisted of African-American and White Northern Protestants, businessmen, small business owners, professionals, factory workers, and farmers. It was pro-business, supporting banks, the gold standard, railroads and high tariffs to protect factory workers and grow industry faster. Under William McKinley and Theodore Roosevelt, it emphasized an expansive foreign policy.\n\nThe GOP lost its majorities during the Great Depression (1929–1940). Instead, the Democrats under Franklin D. Roosevelt formed a winning New Deal coalition, which was dominant from 1932 through 1964. That coalition collapsed in the mid-1960s, partly because of white Southern Democrats' disaffection with the passage of the Civil Rights Act of 1964. Republicans won five of the six presidential elections from 1968 to 1988, with Ronald Reagan as the party's iconic conservative hero. From 1992 to 2016, the Republican candidate has been elected to the White House in three of the seven presidential elections. Two of these (the 2000 and 2016 elections) saw George W. Bush and Donald Trump losing the popular vote, but winning the Electoral College. A similar situation in which Republicans won the Electoral College, but lost the popular vote were the 1876 and 1888 elections.\n\nThe Republican Party expanded its base throughout the South after 1968 (excepting 1976), largely due to its strength among socially conservative white evangelical Protestants and traditionalist Roman Catholics. As white Democrats in the South lost dominance of the Democratic Party once American courts declared the Democratic white primary elections unconstitutional, the region began taking on the two-party apparatus which characterized most of the nation. The Republican Party's transforming leader by 1980 was Reagan, whose conservative policies called for reduced government spending and regulation, lower taxes and a strong anti-Soviet Union foreign policy.\n\nReagan's influence upon the party persists as nearly every Republican Party speaker still reveres him. As such, social scientists Theodore Caplow et al. argue: \"The Republican party, nationally, moved from right-center toward the center in the 1940s and 1950s, then moved right again in the 1970s and 1980s\".\n\nThe Republican Party began as a coalition of anti-slavery Conscience Whigs such as Zachariah Chandler and Free Soil Democrats such as Salmon P. Chase, who were opposed to the Kansas–Nebraska Act, submitted to Congress by Stephen Douglas in January 1854. The Act opened Kansas Territory and Nebraska Territory to slavery and future admission as slave states, thus implicitly repealing the prohibition on slavery in territory north of 36° 30′ latitude, which had been part of the Missouri Compromise. This change was viewed by Free Soil and abolitionist Northerners as an aggressive, expansionist maneuver by the slave-owning South.\n\nThe Act was supported by all Southerners, by Northern \"doughface\" (pro-Southern) Democrats and by other Northern Democrats persuaded by Douglas' doctrine of \"popular sovereignty\". In the North, the old Whig Party was almost defunct. The opponents were intensely motivated and began forming a new party.\n\nThe new party went well beyond the issue of slavery in the territories. It envisioned modernizing the United States—emphasizing giving free western land to farmers (\"free soil\") as opposed to letting slave owners buy up the best lands, expanded banking, more railroads and factories. They vigorously argued that free market labor was superior to slavery and the very foundation of civic virtue and true republicanism—this was the \"Free Soil, Free Labor, Free Men\" ideology.\n\nThe Republicans absorbed the previous traditions of its members, most of whom had been Whigs, while others had been Democrats or members of third parties (especially the Free Soil Party and the American Party, also known as the Know Nothings). Many Democrats who joined were rewarded with governorships, or seats in the U.S. Senate, or House of Representatives. Since its inception, its chief opposition has been the Democratic Party, but the amount of flow back and forth of prominent politicians between the two parties was quite high from 1854 to 1896.\n\nHistorians have explored the ethnocultural foundations of the party, along the line that ethnic and religious groups set the moral standards for their members, who then carried those standards into politics. The churches also provided social networks that politicians used to sign up voters. The pietistic churches emphasized the duty of the Christian to purge sin from society. Sin took many forms—alcoholism, polygamy and slavery became special targets for the Republicans.\n\nNew England Yankees, who dominated that region and much of upstate New York and the upper Midwest, were the strongest supporters of the new party. This was especially true for the pietistic Congregationalists and Presbyterians among them and, during the war, many Methodists and Scandinavian Lutherans. The Quakers were a small, tight-knit group that was heavily Republican. By contrast, the liturgical churches (Roman Catholic, Episcopal and German Lutheran) largely rejected the moralism of the Republican Party; most of their adherents voted Democratic.\n\nThe early standard bearers of the party expressed views of government that marked the first years of its existence. For instance, William H. Seward, New York governor who vied with Lincoln for the nomination in 1860, had called for welcoming immigrants with \"all the sympathy that their misfortunes at home, their condition as strangers here, and their devotion to liberty, ought to excite\". In his 1861 message to Congress, Lincoln argued that the essential reason for preserving the central government was to maintain \"in the world, that form, and substance of government, whose leading object is to elevate the condition of men — to lift artificial weights from all shoulders — to clear the paths of laudable pursuit for all — to afford all, an unfettered start, and a fair chance, in the race of life\".\n\nThe first anti-Nebraska local meeting where Republican was suggested as a name for a new anti-slavery party was held in a Ripon, Wisconsin schoolhouse on March 20, 1854. The first statewide convention that formed a platform and nominated candidates under the name Republican was held near Jackson, Michigan on July 6, 1854. It declared their new party opposed to the expansion of slavery into new territories and selected a statewide slate of candidates. The Midwest took the lead in forming state party tickets while the eastern states lagged a year or so. There were no efforts to organize the party in the South, apart from St. Louis and a few areas adjacent to free states. The party initially had its base in the Northeast and Midwest.\n\nThe party launched its first national convention in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania on February 22, 1856, with its first national nominating convention held in the summer in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, presided by Francis Preston Blair.\n\nJohn C. Frémont ran as the first Republican nominee for President in 1856 behind the slogan: \"Free soil, free silver, free men, Frémont and victory!\" and although Frémont's bid was unsuccessful, the party showed a strong base. It dominated in New England, New York and the northern Midwest and had a strong presence in the rest of the North.It had almost no support in the South, where it was roundly denounced in 1856–1860 as a divisive force that threatened civil war.\n\nWithout using the term \"containment\", the new party in the mid-1850s proposed a system of containing slavery, once it gained control of the national government. Historian James Oakes explains the strategy: The federal government would surround the south with free states, free territories, and free waters, building what they called a 'cordon of freedom' around slavery, hemming it in until the system's own internal weaknesses forced the slave states one by one to abandon slavery.\n\nLeading up to the second presidential election after the party's establishment, disdain for it grew considerably among Democrats, particularly those from the South. In reference to the Republicans' anti-slavery position, prominent Democrats applied the slur \"Black Republican\" against them, as seen repeatedly in the speeches of Senator Stephen Douglas during the Lincoln–Douglas debates of 1858 in Illinois. During the presidential campaign in 1860, at a time of escalating tension between the North and South, Abraham Lincoln addressed the harsh treatment of Republicans in the South in his famous Cooper Union speech: [W]hen you speak of us Republicans, you do so only to denounce us as reptiles, or, at the best, as no better than outlaws. You will grant a hearing to pirates or murderers, but nothing like it to \"Black Republicans.\" [...] But you will not abide the election of a Republican president! In that supposed event, you say, you will destroy the Union; and then, you say, the great crime of having destroyed it will be upon us! That is cool. A highwayman holds a pistol to my ear, and mutters through his teeth, \"Stand and deliver, or I shall kill you, and then you will be a murderer!\"\n\nThe election of Lincoln in 1860 opened a new era of Republican dominance based in the industrial North and agricultural Midwest.\n\nThe Third Party System was dominated by the Republican Party (it lost the presidency only in 1884 and 1892). Lincoln proved brilliantly successful in uniting the factions of his party to fight for the Union. However, he usually fought the Radical Republicans who demanded harsher measures. Most Democrats at first were War Democrats and supportive until the fall of 1862. When Lincoln added the abolition of slavery as a war goal, many War Democrats became Peace Democrats.\n\nMost of the state Republican parties accepted the antislavery goal except Kentucky. During the American Civil War, the party passed major legislation in Congress to promote rapid modernization, including a national banking system, high tariffs, the first temporary income tax (subsequently ruled unconstitutional in \"Springer v. United States\"), many excise taxes, paper money issued without backing (\"greenbacks\"), a huge national debt, homestead laws, railroads and aid to education and agriculture.\n\nThe Republicans denounced the peace-oriented Democrats as disloyal Copperheads and won enough War Democrats to maintain their majority in 1862. In 1864, they formed a coalition with many War Democrats as the National Union Party which reelected Lincoln easily. During the war, upper middle-class men in major cities formed Union Leagues to promote and help finance the war effort.\n\nIn Reconstruction, how to deal with the ex Confederates and the former slaves, or freedmen, were the major issues. By 1864, Radical Republicans controlled Congress and demanded more aggressive action against slavery and more vengeance toward the Confederates. Lincoln held them off, but just barely as Republicans at first welcomed President Andrew Johnson—the Radicals thought Johnson would be harsher in punishing the South.\n\nHowever, Johnson broke with the Radical Republicans and formed a loose alliance with moderate Republicans and Democrats. The showdown came in the Congressional elections of 1866, in which the Radicals won a sweeping victory and took full control of Reconstruction, passing key laws over the veto. Johnson was impeached by the House, but acquitted by the Senate.\nWith the election of Ulysses S. Grant in 1868, the Radicals had control of Congress, the party and the army and attempted to build a solid Republican base in the South using the votes of Freedmen, Scalawags and Carpetbaggers, supported directly by U.S. Army detachments. Republicans all across the South formed local clubs called Union Leagues that effectively mobilized the voters, discussed issues and when necessary fought off Ku Klux Klan (KKK) attacks. Thousands died on both sides.\n\nGrant supported radical reconstruction programs in the South, the Fourteenth Amendment and equal civil and voting rights for the freedmen. Most of all he was the hero of the war veterans, who marched to his tune. The party had become so large that factionalism was inevitable; it was hastened by Grant's tolerance of high levels of corruption typified by the Whiskey Ring.\n\nMany of the founders of the GOP joined the liberal movement, as did many powerful newspaper editors. They nominated Horace Greeley for President, who also gained the Democratic nomination, but the ticket was defeated in a landslide. The depression of 1873 energized the Democrats. They won control of the House and formed \"Redeemer\" coalitions which recaptured control of each southern state, in some cases using threats and violence.\n\nReconstruction came to an end when the contested election of 1876 was awarded by a special electoral commission to Republican Rutherford B. Hayes, who promised through the unofficial Compromise of 1877 to withdraw federal troops from control of the last three southern states. The region then became the Solid South, giving overwhelming majorities of its electoral votes and Congressional seats to the Democrats through 1964.\n\nIn terms of racial issues, Sarah Woolfolk Wiggins argues that in Alabama: White Republicans as well as Democrats solicited black votes but reluctantly rewarded blacks with nominations for office only when necessary, even then reserving the more choice positions for whites. The results were predictable: these half-a-loaf gestures satisfied neither black nor white Republicans. The fatal weakness of the Republican Party in Alabama, as elsewhere in the South, was its inability to create a biracial political party. And while in power even briefly, they failed to protect their members from Democratic terror. Alabama Republicans were forever on the defensive, verbally and physically.\n\nSocial pressure eventually forced most Scalawags to join the conservative/Democratic Redeemer coalition. A minority persisted and formed the \"tan\" half of the \"Black and Tan\" Republican Party, a minority in every Southern state after 1877.\n\nIn several Southern states, the \"Lily Whites\", who sought to recruit white Democrats to the Republican Party, attempted to purge the Black and Tan faction or at least to reduce its influence. Among such \"Lily White\" leaders in the early 20th century, Arkansas' Wallace Townsend was the party's gubernatorial nominee in 1916 and 1920 and its veteran national GOP committeeman.\n\nStarting in the 1870s, Southern Republicans were divided into two factions: the lily-white faction, which was practically all-white; and the biracial black-and-tan faction. The factionalism flared up in 1928 and 1952. The final victory of its opponent the lily-white faction came in 1964.\n\nThe party split into factions in the late 1870s. The Stalwarts, followers of Senator Roscoe Conkling, defended the spoils system. The Half-Breeds, who followed Senator James G. Blaine of Maine, pushed for reform of the Civil service. Independents who opposed the spoils system altogether were called \"Mugwumps\". In 1884, Mugwumps rejected James G. Blaine as corrupt and helped elect Democrat Grover Cleveland, though most returned to the party by 1888.\n\nAs the Northern post-war economy boomed with industry, railroads, mines and fast-growing cities as well as prosperous agriculture, the Republicans took credit and promoted policies to keep the fast growth going. The Democratic Party was largely controlled by pro-business Bourbon Democrats until 1896. The GOP supported big business generally, the gold standard, high tariffs and generous pensions for Union veterans. However, by 1890 the Republicans had agreed to the Sherman Anti-Trust Act and the Interstate Commerce Commission in response to complaints from owners of small businesses and farmers. The high McKinley Tariff of 1890 hurt the party and the Democrats swept to a landslide in the off-year elections, even defeating McKinley himself.\n\nForeign affairs seldom became partisan issues (except for the annexation of Hawaii, which Republicans favored and Democrats opposed). Much more salient were cultural issues. The GOP supported the pietistic Protestants (especially the Methodists, Congregationalists, Presbyterians and Scandinavian Lutherans) who demanded prohibition. That angered wet Republicans, especially German Americans, who broke ranks in 1890–1892, handing power to the Democrats.\n\nDemographic trends aided the Democrats, as the German and Irish Catholic immigrants were mostly Democrats and outnumbered the British and Scandinavian Republicans. During the 1880s, elections were remarkably close. The Democrats usually lost, but won in 1884 and 1892. In the 1894 Congressional elections, the GOP scored the biggest landslide in its history as Democrats were blamed for the severe economic depression 1893–1897 and the violent coal and railroad strikes of 1894.\n\nFrom 1860 to 1912, the Republicans took advantage of the association of the Democrats with \"Rum, Romanism, and Rebellion\". Rum stood for the liquor interests and the tavernkeepers, in contrast to the GOP, which had a strong dry element. \"Romanism\" meant Roman Catholics, especially Irish Americans, who ran the Democratic Party in every big city and whom the Republicans denounced for political corruption. \"Rebellion\" stood for the Democrats of the Confederacy, who tried to break the Union in 1861; and the Democrats in the North, called \"Copperheads\", who sympathized with them.\n\nDemographic trends aided the Democrats, as the German and Irish Catholic immigrants were Democrats and outnumbered the English and Scandinavian Republicans. During the 1880s and 1890s, the Republicans struggled against the Democrats' efforts, winning several close elections and losing two to Grover Cleveland (in 1884 and 1892).\n\nReligious lines were sharply drawn. Methodists, Congregationalists, Presbyterians, Scandinavian Lutherans and other pietists in the North were tightly linked to the GOP. In sharp contrast, liturgical groups, especially the Catholics, Episcopalians and German Lutherans, looked to the Democratic Party for protection from pietistic moralism, especially prohibition. Both parties cut across the class structure, with the Democrats more bottom-heavy.\n\nCultural issues, especially prohibition and foreign language schools became important because of the sharp religious divisions in the electorate. In the North, about 50% of the voters were pietistic Protestants (Methodists, Scandinavian Lutherans, Presbyterians, Congregationalists and Disciples of Christ) who believed the government should be used to reduce social sins, such as drinking.\n\nLiturgical churches (Roman Catholics, German Lutherans and Episcopalians) comprised over a quarter of the vote and wanted the government to stay out of the morality business. Prohibition debates and referendums heated up politics in most states over a period of decade as national prohibition was finally passed in 1919 (repealed in 1933), serving as a major issue between the wet Democrats and the dry GOP.\n\nThe election of William McKinley in 1896 is widely seen as a resurgence of Republican dominance and is cited as a realigning election.\nThe Progressive Era (or \"Fourth Party System\") was dominated by Republican Presidents, with the sole exception of Democrat Woodrow Wilson (1913–1921). McKinley promised that high tariffs would end the severe hardship caused by the Panic of 1893 and that the GOP would guarantee a sort of pluralism in which all groups would benefit. He denounced William Jennings Bryan, the Democratic nominee, as a dangerous radical whose plans for \"Free Silver\" at 16–1 (or Bimetallism) would bankrupt the economy.\n\nMcKinley relied heavily on finance, railroads, industry and the middle classes for his support and cemented the Republicans as the party of business. His campaign manager, Ohio's Mark Hanna, developed a detailed plan for getting contributions from the business world and McKinley outspent his rival William Jennings Bryan by a large margin. This emphasis on business was in part mitigated by Theodore Roosevelt, the presidential successor after McKinley's assassination in 1901, who engaged in trust-busting. McKinley was the first President to promote pluralism, arguing that prosperity would be shared by all ethnic and religious groups.\n\nTheodore Roosevelt, who became President in 1901, had the most dynamic personality of the era. Roosevelt had to contend with men like Senator Mark Hanna, whom he outmaneuvered to gain control of the convention in 1904 that renominated him and he won after promising to continue McKinley's policies. More difficult to handle was conservative House Speaker Joseph Gurney Cannon.\nRoosevelt achieved modest legislative gains in terms of railroad legislation and pure food laws. He was more successful in Court, bringing antitrust suits that broke up the Northern Securities Company trust and Standard Oil. Roosevelt moved to the left in his last two years in office, but was unable to pass major Square Deal proposals. He did succeed in naming his successor Secretary of War William Howard Taft who easily defeated Bryan again in the 1908 presidential election.\nThe tariff issue was pulling the GOP apart. Roosevelt tried to postpone the issue, but Taft had to meet it head on in 1909 with the Payne–Aldrich Tariff Act. Eastern conservatives led by Nelson W. Aldrich wanted high tariffs on manufactured goods (especially woolens), while Midwesterners called for low tariffs. Aldrich tricked them by lowering the tariff on farm products, which outraged the farmers. Insurgent Midwesterners led by George Norris revolted against the conservatives led by Speaker Cannon. The Democrats won control of the House in 1910 as the rift between insurgents and conservatives widened.\n\nIn 1912, Roosevelt broke with Taft and tried for a third term, but he was outmaneuvered by Taft and lost the nomination. Roosevelt led his delegates out of the convention and created a new party (the Progressive, or \"Bull Moose\" ticket), in the election of 1912. Few party leaders followed him except Hiram Johnson of California. Roosevelt had the support of many notable women reformers, including Jane Addams. The Roosevelt-caused split in the Republican vote resulted in a decisive victory for Democrat Woodrow Wilson, temporarily interrupting the Republican era.\n\nThe Republicans welcomed the Progressive Era at the state and local level. The first important reform mayor was Hazen S. Pingree of Detroit (1890–1897), who was elected governor of Michigan in 1896. In New York City, the Republicans joined nonpartisan reformers to battle Tammany Hall and elected Seth Low (1902–1903). Golden Rule Jones was first elected mayor of Toledo as a Republican in 1897, but was reelected as an independent when his party refused to renominate him. Many Republican civic leaders, following the example of Mark Hanna, were active in the National Civic Federation, which promoted urban reforms and sought to avoid wasteful strikes.\nThe party controlled the presidency throughout the 1920s, running on a platform of opposition to the League of Nations, high tariffs, and promotion of business interests. Warren G. Harding, Calvin Coolidge and Herbert Hoover were resoundingly elected in 1920, 1924 and 1928, respectively. The breakaway efforts of Senator Robert La Follette in 1924 failed to stop a landslide for Coolidge and his movement fell apart. The Teapot Dome Scandal threatened to hurt the party, but Harding died and Coolidge blamed everything on him as the opposition splintered in 1924.\n\nThe pro-business policies of the decade seemed to produce an unprecedented prosperity—until the Wall Street Crash of 1929 heralded the Great Depression. Although the party did very well in large cities and among ethnic Catholics in presidential elections of 1920–1924, it was unable to hold those gains in 1928. By 1932, the cities—for the first time ever—had become Democratic strongholds.\n\nHoover was by nature an activist and attempted to do what he could to alleviate the widespread suffering caused by the Depression, but his strict adherence to what he believed were Republican principles precluded him from establishing relief directly from the federal government. The Depression cost Hoover the presidency with the 1932 landslide election of Franklin D. Roosevelt. Roosevelt's New Deal coalition controlled American politics for most of the next three decades, excepting the two-term presidency of Republican Dwight Eisenhower. The Democrats made major gains in the 1930 midterm elections, giving them congressional parity (though not control) for the first time since Woodrow Wilson's presidency.\n\nThe Republican Party had a progressive element, typified in the early 20th century by Theodore Roosevelt in the 1907–1912 period (Roosevelt was more conservative at other points), Senator Robert M. La Follette, Sr. and his sons in Wisconsin (from about 1900 to 1946) and western leaders such as Senator Hiram Johnson in California, Senator George W. Norris in Nebraska, Senator Bronson M. Cutting in New Mexico, Congresswoman Jeannette Rankin in Montana and Senator William Borah in Idaho. They were generally progressive in domestic policy, supported unions and supported much of the New Deal, but were isolationist in foreign policy. This element died out by the 1940s. Outside Congress, of the leaders who supported Theodore Roosevelt in 1912, most opposed the New Deal.\n\nStarting in the 1930s, a number of Northeastern Republicans took liberal positions regarding labor unions, spending and New Deal policies. They included Mayor Fiorello La Guardia in New York City, Governor Thomas E. Dewey of New York, Governor Earl Warren of California, Governor Harold Stassen of Minnesota, Senator Clifford P. Case of New Jersey, Henry Cabot Lodge, Jr. of Massachusetts, Senator Prescott Bush of Connecticut (father and grandfather of the two Bush Presidents), Senator Jacob K. Javits of New York, Senator John Sherman Cooper of Kentucky, Senator George Aiken of Vermont, Governor and later Senator Mark Hatfield of Oregon, Governor William Scranton of Pennsylvania and Governor George W. Romney of Michigan. The most notable of them all was Governor Nelson A. Rockefeller of New York. They generally advocated a free-market, but with some level of regulation. Rockefeller required employable welfare recipients to take available jobs or job training.\n\nWhile the media sometimes called them \"Rockefeller Republicans\", the liberal Republicans never formed an organized movement or caucus and lacked a recognized leader. They promoted economic growth and high state and federal spending while accepting high taxes and much liberal legislation, with the provision they could administer it more efficiently. They opposed the Democratic big city machines while welcoming support from labor unions and big business alike. Religion was not high on their agenda, but they were strong believers in civil rights for African Americans and women's rights and most liberals were pro-choice. They were also strong environmentalists and supporters of higher education. In foreign policy they were internationalists, throwing their support to Dwight D. Eisenhower over the conservative leader Robert A. Taft in 1952. They were often called the \"Eastern Establishment\" by conservatives such as Barry Goldwater.\n\nThe Goldwater conservatives fought this establishment from 1960, defeated it in 1964 and eventually retired most of its members, although some became Democrats like Senator Charles Goodell and Mayor John Lindsay in New York. President Richard Nixon adopted many of their positions, especially regarding health care, welfare spending, environmentalism and support for the arts and humanities. After Congressman John B. Anderson of Illinois bolted the party in 1980 and ran as an independent against Reagan, the liberal GOP element faded away. Their old strongholds in the Northeast are now mostly held by Democrats.\n\nFrom its inception in 1854 to 1964, when Senate Republicans pushed hard for passage of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 against a filibuster by Senate Democrats, the GOP had a reputation for supporting blacks and minorities. In 1869, the Republican-controlled legislature in Wyoming Territory and its Republican governor John Allen Campbell made it the first jurisdiction to grant voting rights to women. In 1875, California swore in the first Hispanic governor, Republican Romualdo Pacheco. In 1916, Jeannette Rankin of Montana became the first woman in Congress—and indeed the first woman in any high level government position. In 1928, New Mexico elected the first Hispanic U.S. Senator, Republican Octaviano Larrazolo. In 1898, the first Jewish U.S. Senator elected from outside of the former Confederacy was Republican Joseph Simon of Oregon. In 1924, the first Jewish woman elected to the U.S. House of Representatives was Republican Florence Kahn of California. In 1928, the Republican U.S. Senate Majority Leader, Charles Curtis of Kansas, who grew up on the Kaw Indian reservation, became the first person of significant non-European ancestry to be elected to national office, as Vice President of the United States for Herbert Hoover.\n\nBlacks generally identified with the GOP until the 1930s. Every African American who served in the U.S. House of Representatives before 1935 and all of the African Americans who served in the Senate before 1979, were Republicans. Frederick Douglass after the Civil War and Booker T. Washington in the early 20th century were prominent Republican spokesmen. In 1966, Edward Brooke of Massachusetts became the first African American popularly elected to the United States Senate.\n\nHistorian George H. Nash argues: Unlike the \"moderate,\" internationalist, largely eastern bloc of Republicans who accepted (or at least acquiesced in) some of the \"Roosevelt Revolution\" and the essential premises of President Truman's foreign policy, the Republican Right at heart was counterrevolutionary. Anticollectivist, anti-Communist, anti-New Deal, passionately committed to limited government, free market economics, and congressional (as opposed to executive) prerogatives, the G.O.P. conservatives were obliged from the start to wage a constant two-front war: against liberal Democrats from without and \"me-too\" Republicans from within.\n\nThe Old Right emerged in opposition to the New Deal of Franklin D. Roosevelt. Hoff says that \"moderate Republicans and leftover Republican Progressives like Hoover composed the bulk of the Old Right by 1940, with a sprinkling of former members of the Farmer-Labor party, Non-Partisan League, and even a few midwestern prairie Socialists\".\n\nAfter Roosevelt took office in 1933, New Deal legislation sailed through Congress at lightning speed. In the 1934 midterm elections, ten Republican senators went down to defeat, leaving them with only 25 against 71 Democrats. The House of Representatives was also split in a similar ratio. The \"Second New Deal\" was heavily criticized by the Republicans in Congress, who likened it to class warfare and socialism. The volume of legislation, as well as the inability of the Republicans to block it, soon made the opposition to Roosevelt develop into bitterness and sometimes hatred for \"that man in the White House\". Former President Hoover became a leading orator crusading against the New Deal, hoping unrealistically to be nominated again for President.\n\nMost major newspaper publishers favored Republican moderate Alf Landon for President. In the nation's 15 largest cities the newspapers that editorially endorsed Landon represented 70% of the circulation, while Roosevelt won 69% of the actual voters in those cities, ignoring the press and using the radio to reach voters directly.\n\nRoosevelt carried 46 of the 48 states thanks to traditional Democrats along with newly energized labor unions, city machines and the WPA. The realignment creating the Fifth Party System was firmly in place. Since 1928, the GOP had lost 178 House seats, 40 Senate seats and 19 governorships, though it retained a mere 89 seats in the House and 16 in the Senate.\n\nThe black vote held for Hoover in 1932, but started moving toward Roosevelt. By 1940, the majority of northern blacks were voting Democratic. Roosevelt made sure blacks had a share in relief programs, the wartime Army and wartime defense industry, but did not challenge segregation or the denial of voting rights in the South.\n\nMinority parties tend to factionalize and after 1936 the GOP split into a conservative faction (dominant in the West and Midwest) and a liberal faction (dominant in the Northeast)—combined with a residual base of inherited progressive Republicanism active throughout the century. In 1936, Kansas governor Alf Landon and his young followers defeated the Herbert Hoover faction. Landon generally supported most New Deal programs, but carried only two states in the Roosevelt landslide with his moderate campaign. The GOP was left with only 16 senators and 88 representatives to oppose the New Deal, with Massachusetts Senator Henry Cabot Lodge Jr. as the sole victor over a Democratic incumbent.\n\nRoosevelt alienated many conservative Democrats in 1937 by his unexpected plan to \"pack\" the Supreme Court via the Judiciary Reorganization Bill of 1937. Following a sharp recession that hit early in 1938, major strikes all over the country, the CIO and AFL competing with each other for membership and Roosevelt's failed efforts to radically reorganize the Supreme Court, the Democrats were in disarray. Meanwhile, the GOP was united as they had shed their weakest members in a series of defeats since 1930. Re-energized Republicans focused attention on strong fresh candidates in major states, especially Robert A. Taft the conservative from Ohio, Earl Warren the moderate who won both the Republicans and the Democratic primaries in California and Thomas E. Dewey the crusading prosecutor from New York. The GOP comeback in 1938 was made possible by carrying 50% of the vote outside the South, giving GOP leaders confidence it had a strong base for the 1940 presidential election.\n\nThe GOP gained 75 House seats in 1938, but were still a minority. Conservative Democrats, mostly from the South, joined with Republicans led by Senator Robert A. Taft to create the conservative coalition, which dominated domestic issues in Congress until 1964.\n\nFrom 1939 through 1941, there was a sharp debate within the GOP about support for Britain in World War II. Internationalists, such as Henry Stimson and Frank Knox, wanted to support Britain and isolationists, such as Robert A. Taft and Arthur Vandenberg, strongly opposed these moves as unwise, if not unconstitutional. The America First movement was a bipartisan coalition of isolationists. In 1940, a total unknown Wendell Willkie at the last minute won over the party, the delegates and was nominated. He crusaded against the inefficiencies of the New Deal and Roosevelt's break with the strong tradition against a third term.\n\nThe Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor in 1941 ended the isolationist-internationalist debate. The Republicans further cut the Democratic majority in the 1942 midterm elections. With wartime production creating prosperity, the conservative coalition terminated most New Deal relief programs.\n\nSenator Robert A. Taft of Ohio represented the wing of the party that continued to oppose New Deal reforms and continued to champion non-interventionism. Governor Thomas E. Dewey of New York, represented the Northeastern wing of the party. Dewey did not reject the New Deal programs, but demanded more efficiency, more support for economic growth and less corruption. He was more willing than Taft to support Britain in 1939–1940. After the war the isolationists wing strenuously opposed the United Nations and was half-hearted in opposition to world communism.\n\nAs a minority party, the GOP had two wings: The left-wing supported most of the New Deal while promising to run it more efficiently and the right-wing opposed the New Deal from the beginning and managed to repeal large parts during the 1940s in cooperation with conservative Southern Democrats in the conservative coalition. Liberals, led by Dewey, dominated the Northeast while conservatives, led by Taft, dominated the Midwest. The West was split and the South was still solidly Democratic.\n\nIn 1944, a clearly frail Roosevelt defeated Dewey for his fourth consecutive term, but Dewey made a good showing that would lead to his selection as the candidate in 1948.\n\nRoosevelt died in April 1945 and Harry S. Truman, a less liberal Democrat became President and replaced most of Roosevelt's top appointees. With the end of the war, unrest among organized labor led to many strikes in 1946 and the resulting disruptions helped the GOP. With the blunders of the Truman administration in 1945 and 1946, the slogans \"Had Enough?\" and \"To Err is Truman\" became Republican rallying cries and the GOP won control of Congress for the first time since 1928, with Joseph William Martin, Jr. as Speaker of the House. The Taft-Hartley Act of 1947 was designed to balance the rights of management and labor. It was the central issue of many elections in industrial states in the 1940s to 1950s, but the unions were never able to repeal it.\n\nIn 1948, with Republicans split left and right, Truman boldly called Congress into a special session and sent it a load of liberal legislation consistent with the Dewey platform and dared them to act on it, knowing that the conservative Republicans would block action. Truman then attacked the Republican \"Do-Nothing Congress\" as a whipping boy for all of the nation's problems. Truman stunned Dewey and the Republicans in the election with a plurality of just over two million popular votes (out of nearly 49 million cast), but a decisive 303–189 victory in the Electoral College.\n\nIn 1952, Dwight D. Eisenhower, an internationalist allied with the Dewey wing, was drafted as a GOP candidate by a small group of Republicans led by Henry Cabot Lodge, Jr. in order that he challenge Taft on foreign policy issues. The two men were not far apart on domestic issues. Eisenhower's victory broke a twenty-year Democratic lock on the White House. Eisenhower did not try to roll back the New Deal, but he did expand the Social Security system and built the Interstate Highway System.\n\nAfter 1945, the isolationists in the conservative wing opposed the United Nations and were half-hearted in opposition to the expansion of communism around the world. A garrison state to fight communism, they believed, would mean regimentation and government controls at home. Eisenhower, the Supreme Headquarters Allied Expeditionary Force Commander, defeated Taft in 1952 on foreign policy issues.\n\nTo circumvent the local Republican Party apparatus mostly controlled by Taft supporters, the Eisenhower forces created a nationwide network of grass-roots clubs, \"Citizens for Eisenhower\". Independents and Democrats were welcome, as the group specialized in canvassing neighborhoods and holding small group meetings. Citizens for Eisenhower hoped to revitalize the GOP by expanding its activist ranks and by supporting moderate and internationalist policies. It did not endorse candidates other than Eisenhower, but he paid it little attention after he won and it failed to maintain its impressive starting momentum. Instead the conservative Republicans became energized, leading to the Barry Goldwater nomination of 1964. Long-time Republican activists viewed the newcomers with suspicion and hostility. More significantly, activism in support of Eisenhower did not translate into enthusiasm for the party cause.\n\nOnce in office, Eisenhower was not an effective party leader and Nixon increasingly took that role. Historian David Reinhard concludes that Eisenhower lacked sustained political commitment, refused to intervene in state politics, failed to understand the political uses of presidential patronage and overestimated his personal powers of persuasion and conciliation. Eisenhower's attempt in 1956 to convert the GOP to \"Modern Republicanism\" was his \"grandest flop\". It was a vague proposal with weak staffing and little financing or publicity that caused turmoil inside the local parties across the country. The GOP carried both houses of Congress in 1952 on Eisenhower's coattails, but in 1954 lost both and would not regain the Senate until 1980 nor the House until 1994. The problem, says Reinhard, was the \"voters liked Ike—but not the GOP\".\n\nEisenhower was an exception to most Presidents in that he usually let Vice President Richard Nixon handle party affairs (controlling the national committee and taking the roles of chief spokesman and chief fundraiser). Nixon was defeated in 1960 in a close election, weakening his moderate wing of the party.\n\nThe conservatives in 1964 made a comeback under the leadership of Barry Goldwater who defeated moderates and liberals such as Nelson Rockefeller and Henry Cabot Lodge, Jr., as the Republican candidate for the 1964 election. Goldwater was strongly opposed to the New Deal and the United Nations, but he rejected isolationism and containment, calling for an aggressive anti-communist foreign policy.\n\nIn the presidential election of 1964, he was defeated by Lyndon Johnson in a landslide that brought down many senior Republican Congressmen across the country. Goldwater won five states in the deep South, the strongest showing by a Republican presidential candidate in the South since 1872. Goldwater blamed the magnitude of his defeat on the assassination of John F. Kennedy a year before the election and on Johnson running a successful campaign.\n\nThe New Deal Coalition collapsed in the mid-1960s in the face of urban riots, the Vietnam War, the opposition of many Southern Democrats to desegregation and the Civil Rights Movement and disillusionment that the New Deal could be revived by Lyndon Johnson's Great Society. Nixon defeated both Hubert Humphrey and George C. Wallace in 1968. When the Democratic left took over their party in 1972, Nixon won reelection by carrying 49 states.\n\nNixon's involvement in Watergate brought disgrace and a forced resignation in 1974 and any long-term movement toward the GOP was interrupted by the scandal. Gerald Ford succeeded Nixon and gave him a full pardon—thereby giving the Democrats a powerful issue they used to sweep the 1974 off-year elections. Ford never fully recovered and in 1976 he barely defeated Ronald Reagan for the nomination. The one positive to come from Ford's brief presidency was the outspoken personality of First Lady Betty Ford. Ford took several liberal positions on social issues regarding breast cancer awareness following her Mastectomy in 1974. To add to her outspoken persona, she was a staunch supporter of and activist for the Equal Rights Amendment, (ERA). Pro-choice on abortion and a leader in the women's movement, she gained fame as one of the most candid first ladies in history, commenting on every hot button issue of the time, including feminism, equal pay, the ERA, sex, drugs, abortion, civil rights, and gun control. Her liberal positions and her outspoken personality garnered her high approval ratings throughout her husband's term in office despite opposition from the conservative wing of the GOP who objected to her liberal stances and even a few members of Ford's cabinet like Dick Cheney and Donald Rumsfeld advised Ford to ask her to tone down her outspoken views to avoid losing voters, but Ford declined to do so. Despite the candid nature of the First Lady and the end of the Vietnam War, Democrats ended up with major gains in Congress and the taint of Watergate and the nation's economic difficulties contributed to the election of Democrat Jimmy Carter in 1976, running as a Washington outsider.\n\nRonald Reagan was elected President in the 1980 election by a landslide vote, not predicted by most voter polling. Running on a \"Peace Through Strength\" platform to combat the communist threat and massive tax cuts to revitalize the economy, Reagan's strong persona proved too much for Carter. Reagan's election also gave Republicans control of the Senate for the first time in decades.\n\nDubbed the \"Reagan Revolution\", he fundamentally altered several long standing debates in Washington, namely dealing with the Soviet threat and reviving the economy. His election saw the conservative wing of the party gain control. While reviled by liberal opponents in his day, his proponents contend his programs provided unprecedented economic growth and spurred the collapse of the Soviet Union.\n\nDetractors of Reagan's policies note that although Reagan promised to simultaneously slash taxes, massively increase defense spending and balance the budget, by the time he left office the nation's budget deficit had tripled in his eight years in office. In 2009, Reagan's budget director noted that the \"debt explosion has resulted not from big spending by the Democrats, but instead the Republican Party's embrace, about three decades ago, of the insidious doctrine that deficits don't matter if they result from tax cuts\". He inspired conservatives to greater electoral victories by being reelected in a landslide against Walter Mondale in 1984, but oversaw the loss of the Senate in 1986.\n\nThe term \"Rockefeller Republican\" was used 1960–1980 to designate a faction of the party holding \"moderate\" views similar to those of Nelson Rockefeller, governor of New York from 1959 to 1974 and Vice President under President Gerald Ford in 1974–1977. Before Rockefeller, Thomas E. Dewey, governor of New York (1942–1954) and GOP presidential nominee in 1944 and 1948 was the leader. Dwight Eisenhower and his aide Henry Cabot Lodge, Jr. reflected many of their views.\n\nAn important moderate leader in the 1950s was Connecticut Republican Senator Prescott Bush, father and grandfather of Presidents George H. W. Bush and George W. Bush, respectively. After Rockefeller left the national stage in 1976, this faction of the party was more often called \"moderate Republicans\", in contrast to the conservatives who rallied to Ronald Reagan.\n\nHistorically, Rockefeller Republicans were moderate or liberal on domestic and social policies. They favored New Deal programs, including regulation and welfare. They were very strong supporters of civil rights. They were strongly supported by big business on Wall Street (New York City). In fiscal policy they favored balanced budgets and relatively high tax levels to keep the budget balanced. They sought long-term economic growth through entrepreneurship, not tax cuts.\n\nIn state politics, they were strong supporters of state colleges and universities, low tuition and large research budgets. They favored infrastructure improvements, such as highway projects. In foreign policy they were internationalists and anti-communists. They felt the best way to counter communism was sponsoring economic growth (through foreign aid), maintaining a strong military and keeping close ties to NATO. Geographically their base was the Northeast, from Maine to Pennsylvania, where they had the support of major corporations and banks and worked well with labor unions.\n\nThe moderate Republicans were top-heavy, with a surplus of high visibility national leaders and a shortage of grass roots workers. Most of all they lack the numbers, the enthusiasm and excitement the conservatives could mobilize—the moderates decided it must be an un-American level of fanaticism that drove their opponents. Doug Bailey, a senior Rockefeller aide recalled, \"there was a mentality in [Rockefeller's] campaign staff that, 'Look, we have got all this money. We should be able to buy the people necessary to get this done. And you buy from the top down'\". Bailey discovered that the Rockefeller team never understood that effective political organizations are empowered from the bottom up, not the top down.\n\nBarry Goldwater crusaded against the Rockefeller Republicans, beating Rockefeller narrowly in the California primary of 1964 giving the Arizona senator, all of the California delegates and a majority at the presidential nominating convention. The election was a disaster for the conservatives, but the Goldwater activists now controlled large swaths of the GOP and they had no intention of retreating. The stage was set for a conservative takeover, based in the South and West, in opposition to the Northeast. Ronald Reagan continued in the same theme. George H. W. Bush was more closely associated with the moderates, but his son George W. Bush was firmly allied with the conservatives.\n\nBefore Reconstruction and for a century thereafter, the white South identified with the Democratic Party. The Democratic Party's dominance in the Southern states was so strong that the region was called the Solid South. The Republicans controlled certain parts of the Appalachian Mountains and they sometimes did compete for statewide office in the border states.\n\nBefore 1948, the Southern Democrats saw their party as the defender of the Southern way of life, which included a respect for states' rights and an appreciation for traditional southern values. They repeatedly warned against the aggressive designs of Northern liberals and Republicans as well as the civil rights activists they denounced as \"outside agitators\", thus there was a serious barrier to becoming a Republican.\n\nIn 1948, Democrats alienated white Southerners in two ways. The Democratic National Convention adopted a strong civil rights plank, leading to a walkout by Southerners. Two weeks later, President Harry Truman signed Executive Order 9981 integrating the armed forces. In 1948, the Deep South walked out, formed a new regional party and nominated J. Strom Thurmond who carried the Deep South, but the outer South stayed with Truman and the \"Dixiecrats\" returned to the party.\n\nBy 1964, the Democratic lock on the South remained strong, but cracks began to appear. One long-term cause was that the region was becoming more like the rest of the nation and could not long stand apart in terms of racial segregation. Modernization brought factories, businesses and larger cities as well as millions of migrants from the North, as far more people graduated from high school and college. Meanwhile, the cotton and tobacco basis of the traditional South faded away as former farmers moved to town or commuted to factory jobs. Segregation, requiring separate dining and lodging arrangements for employees, was a serious obstacle to business development.\n\nThe highly visible immediate cause of the political transition involved civil rights. The civil rights movement caused enormous controversy in the white South with many attacking it as a violation of states' rights. When segregation was outlawed by court order and by the Civil Rights acts of 1964 and 1965, a die-hard element resisted integration, led by Democratic governors Orval Faubus of Arkansas, Lester Maddox of Georgia, Ross Barnett of Mississippi and, especially George Wallace of Alabama. These populist governors appealed to a less-educated, blue-collar electorate that on economic grounds favored the Democratic Party and supported segregation.\n\nAfter passage of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, most Southerners accepted the integration of most institutions (except public schools). With the old barrier to becoming a Republican removed, Southerners joined the new middle class and the Northern transplants in moving toward the Republican Party. Integration thus liberated Southern politics from the old racial issues. In 1963, the federal courts declared unconstitutional the practice of excluding African-American voters from the Democratic primaries, which had been the only elections that mattered in most of the South. Meanwhile, the newly enfranchised black voters supported Democratic candidates at the 85–90% level, a shift which further convinced many white segregationists that the Republicans were no longer the black party.\n\nSome critics, most notably Dan Carter, have alleged that the rapid growth in Republican strength in the South came from a secretly coded message to Wallacites and segregationists that the GOP was a racist anti-black party seeking their votes. Political scientists and historians point out that the timing does not fit the Southern strategy model. Nixon carried 49 states in 1972, so he operated a successful national rather than regional strategy, but the Republican Party remained quite weak at the local and state level across the entire South for decades. Matthew Lassiter argues that Nixon's appeal was not to the Wallacites or segregationists, but rather to the rapidly emerging suburban middle-class. Many had Northern antecedents and they wanted rapid economic growth and saw the need to put backlash politics to rest. Lassiter says the Southern strategy was a \"failure\" for the GOP and that the Southern base of the Republican Party \"always depended more on the middle-class corporate economy and on the top-down politics of racial backlash\". Furthermore, \"realignment in the South quote came primarily from the suburban ethos of New South metropolises such as Atlanta and Charlotte, North Carolina, not to the exportation of the working-class racial politics of the Black Belt\".\n\nThe South's transition to a Republican stronghold took decades and manifested an incremental seepage downward from national to state to local levels. First the states started voting Republican in presidential elections—the Democrats countered that by nominating Southerners who could carry some states in the region, such as Jimmy Carter in 1976 and Bill Clinton in 1992 and 1996. However, the strategy narrowly failed with Al Gore in 2000. The states began electing Republican senators to fill open seats caused by retirements and finally governors and state legislatures changed sides.\n\nGeorgia was the last state to fall, with Sonny Perdue taking the governorship in 2002. Republicans aided the process with redistricting that protected the African-American and Hispanic vote (as required by the Civil Rights laws), but split up the remaining white Democrats so that Republicans mostly would win. In 2006, the Supreme Court endorsed nearly all of the gerrymandering engineered by Tom DeLay that swung the Texas Congressional delegation to the GOP in 2004. DeLay himself was acquitted on appeal in 2013 of illegally funding the state GOP.\n\nIn addition to its white middle class base, Republicans attracted strong majorities from the evangelical Christian vote (including Southern pockets of traditionalist Roman Catholics as in South Louisiana), which had been nonpolitical before 1980. The national Democratic Party's support for liberal social stances such as abortion drove many white Southerners into a Republican Party that was embracing the conservative views on these issues. Conversely, liberal voters in the northeast began to join the Democratic Party.\n\nIn 1969, Kevin Phillips argued in \"The Emerging Republican Majority\" that support from Southern whites and growth in the South, among other factors, were driving an enduring Republican electoral realignment. Today, the South is again generally solid in state elections, and mostly solid in presidential contests, but now for the Republicans. Exit polls in 2004 showed that George W. Bush led John Kerry 70% to 30% among whites, who constituted 71% of Southern voters.\n\nKerry had a 90% to 9% lead among the 18% of black voters. One-third of the Southerners said they were white evangelicals and they voted for Bush, 80% to 20%. In 2008. Barack Obama carried Florida, North Carolina and Virginia, but in 2010 the GOP regained their losses. Since the Reagan administration, U.S. presidential elections have been close. However, the Republican presidential candidate won a majority of the popular vote only in 2004, while coming in second in 1992, 1996, 2000, 2008, 2012 and 2016.\n\nPolitical scientists Nicholas A. Valentino and David O. Sears argue that conventional wisdom concerning partisanship today focuses more on the size of government, national security and moral issues, while disagreements on racial issues plays a smaller role.\n\nRonald Reagan produced a major realignment with his 1980 and 1984 landslides. In 1980, the Reagan coalition was possible because of Democratic losses in most social-economic groups. In 1984, Reagan won nearly 60% of the popular vote and carried every state except his Democratic opponent Walter Mondale's home state of Minnesota and the District of Columbia, creating a record 525 electoral vote total (out of 538 possible votes). Even in Minnesota, Mondale won by a mere 3,761 votes, meaning Reagan came within less than 3,800 votes of winning in all fifty states.\n\nPolitical commentators, trying to explain how Reagan had won by such a large margin, coined the term \"Reagan Democrat\" to describe a Democratic voter who had voted for Reagan in 1980 and 1984 (as well as for George H. W. Bush in 1988), producing their landslide victories. They were mostly white, blue-collar and were attracted to Reagan's social conservatism on issues such as abortion and to his hawkish foreign policy. Stan Greenberg, a Democratic pollster, concluded that Reagan Democrats no longer saw Democrats as champions of their middle class aspirations, but instead saw it as being a party working primarily for the benefit of others, especially African Americans and social liberals.\n\nReagan reoriented American politics ad claimed credit in 1984 for an economic renewal—\"It's morning in America again!\" was the successful campaign slogan. Income taxes were slashed 25% and the upper tax rates abolished. The frustrations of stagflation were resolved under the new monetary policies of Federal Reserve Chairman Paul Volcker, as no longer did soaring inflation and recession pull the country down. Working again in bipartisan fashion, the Social Security financial crises were resolved for the next 25 years.\n\nIn foreign affairs, bipartisanship was not in evidence. Most Democrats doggedly opposed Reagan's efforts to support the contra guerrillas against the Sandinista government of Nicaragua and to support the dictatorial governments of Guatemala, Honduras and El Salvador against communist guerrilla movements. He took a hard line against the Soviet Union, alarming Democrats who wanted a nuclear freeze, but he succeeded in increasing the military budget and launching the Strategic Defense Initiative (SDI)—labeled \"Star Wars\" by its opponents—that the Soviets could not match.\n\nWhen Mikhail Gorbachev came to power in Moscow, many conservative Republicans were dubious of the growing friendship between him and Reagan. Gorbachev tried to save communism in the Soviet Union first by ending the expensive arms race with America, then in 1989 by shedding the East European empire. Communism finally collapsed in the Soviet Union in 1991.\n\nPresident George H. W. Bush, Reagan's successor, tried to temper feelings of triumphalism lest there be a backlash in the Soviet Union, but the palpable sense of victory in the Cold War was a success that Republicans felt validated the aggressive foreign policies Reagan had espoused. As Haynes Johnson, one of his harshest critics admitted, \"his greatest service was in restoring the respect of Americans for themselves and their own government after the traumas of Vietnam and Watergate, the frustration of the Iran hostage crisis and a succession of seemingly failed presidencies\".\n\nAfter the election of Democratic President Bill Clinton in 1992, the Republican Party, led by House Republican Minority Whip Newt Gingrich campaigning on a \"Contract with America\", were elected to majorities to both Houses of Congress in the Republican Revolution of 1994. It was the first time since 1952 that the Republicans secured control of both houses of U.S. Congress, which with the exception of the Senate during 2001–2002 was retained through 2006. This capture and subsequent holding of Congress represented a major legislative turnaround, as Democrats controlled both houses of Congress for the forty years preceding 1995, with the exception of the 1981–1987 Congress in which Republicans controlled the Senate.\n\nIn 1994, Republican Congressional candidates ran on a platform of major reforms of government with measures such as a balanced budget amendment and welfare reform. These measures and others formed the famous Contract with America, which represented the first effort to have a party platform in an off-year election. The Contract promised to bring all points up for a vote for the first time in history. The Republicans passed some of their proposals, but failed on others such as term limits.\n\nDemocratic President Bill Clinton opposed some of the social agenda initiatives, but he co-opted the proposals for welfare reform and a balanced federal budget. The result was a major change in the welfare system, which conservatives hailed and liberals bemoaned. The Republican-controlled House of Representatives failed to muster the two-thirds majority required to pass a Constitutional amendment to impose term limits on members of Congress.\n\nIn 1995, a budget battle with Clinton led to the brief shutdown of the federal government, an event which contributed to Clinton's victory in the 1996 election. That year, the Republicans nominated Bob Dole, who was unable to transfer his success in Senate leadership to a viable presidential campaign.\n\nThe incoming Republican majority's promise to slow the rate of government spending conflicted with the president's agenda for Medicare, education, the environment and public health, eventually leading to a temporary shutdown of the U.S. federal government. The shutdown became the longest-ever in U.S. history, ending when Clinton agreed to submit a CBO-approved balanced budget plan. Democratic leaders vigorously attacked Gingrich for the budget standoff and his public image suffered heavily.\n\nDuring the 1998 midterm elections, Republicans lost five seats in the House of Representatives—the worst performance in 64 years for a party that did not hold the presidency. Polls showed that Gingrich's attempt to remove President Clinton from the office was widely unpopular among Americans and Gingrich suffered much of the blame for the election loss. Facing another rebellion in the Republican caucus, he announced on November 6, 1998 that he would not only stand down as Speaker, but would leave the House as well, even declining to take his seat for an 11th term once he was handily re-elected in his home district.\n\nSome liberal Democratic intellectuals in the 1960s and 1970s who became disenchanted with the leftward movement of their party in domestic and foreign policy became \"neoconservatives\" (\"neocons\"). A number held major appointments during the five presidential terms under Reagan and the Bushes. They played a central role in promoting and planning the 2003 invasion of Iraq. Vice President Dick Cheney and Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld, while not identifying themselves as neoconservatives, listened closely to neoconservative advisers regarding foreign policy, especially the defense of Israel, the promotion of democracy in the Middle East and the buildup of American military forces to achieve these goals. Many early neoconservative thinkers were Zionists and wrote often for \"Commentary\", published by the American Jewish Committee. The influence of the neocons on the White House faded during the Obama years, but it remains a staple in Republican Party arsenal.\n\nGeorge W. Bush, son of George H. W. Bush, won the 2000 Republican presidential nomination over Arizona Senator John McCain, former Senator Elizabeth Dole and others. With his highly controversial and exceedingly narrow victory in the 2000 election against the Vice President Al Gore, the Republican Party gained control of the Presidency and both houses of Congress for the first time since 1952. However, it lost control of the Senate when Vermont Senator James Jeffords left the Republican Party to become an independent in 2001 and caucused with the Democrats.\n\nIn the wake of the September 11 attacks on the United States in 2001, Bush gained widespread political support as he pursued the War on Terrorism that included the invasion of Afghanistan and the invasion of Iraq. In March 2003, Bush ordered for an invasion of Iraq because of breakdown of United Nations sanctions and intelligence indicating programs to rebuild or develop new weapons of mass destruction. Bush had near-unanimous Republican support in Congress plus support from many Democratic leaders.\n\nThe Republican Party fared well in the 2002 midterm elections, solidifying its hold on the House and regaining control of the Senate in the run-up to the war in Iraq. This marked the first time since 1934 that the party in control of the White House gained seats in a midterm election in both houses of Congress (previous occasions were in 1902 and following the Civil War). Bush was renominated without opposition as the Republican candidate in the 2004 election and titled his political platform \"A Safer World and a More Hopeful America\".\n\nIt expressed Bush's optimism towards winning the War on Terrorism, ushering in an ownership society and building an innovative economy to compete in the world. Bush was re-elected by a larger margin than in 2000, but won the smallest share ever of the popular vote for a reelected incumbent president. However, he was the first Republican candidate since 1988 to win an outright majority. In the same election that year, the Republicans gained seats in both houses of Congress and Bush told reporters: \"I earned capital in the campaign, political capital, and now I intend to spend it. It is my style\".\n\nBush announced his agenda in January 2005, but his popularity in the polls waned and his troubles mounted. Continuing troubles in Iraq as well as the disastrous government response to Hurricane Katrina led to declining popular support for Bush's policies. His campaign to add personal savings accounts to the Social Security system and make major revisions in the tax code were postponed. He succeeded in selecting conservatives to head four of the most important agencies, Condoleezza Rice as Secretary of State, Alberto Gonzales as Attorney General, John Roberts as Chief Justice of the United States and Ben Bernanke as Chairman of the Federal Reserve.\n\nBush failed to win conservative approval for Harriet Miers to the Supreme Court, replacing her with Samuel Alito, whom the Senate confirmed in January 2006. Bush and McCain secured additional tax cuts and blocked moves to raise taxes. Through 2006, they strongly defended his policy in Iraq, saying the Coalition was winning. They secured the renewal of the USA PATRIOT Act.\nIn the November 2005 off-year elections, New York City, Republican mayoral candidate Michael Bloomberg won a landslide re-election, the fourth straight Republican victory in what is otherwise a Democratic stronghold. In California, Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger failed in his effort to use the ballot initiative to enact laws the Democrats blocked in the state legislature. Scandals prompted the resignations of Congressional Republicans House Majority Leader Tom DeLay, Duke Cunningham, Mark Foley and Bob Ney. In the 2006 midterm elections, the Republicans lost control of both the House of Representatives and Senate to the Democrats in what was widely interpreted as a repudiation of the administration's war policies. Exit polling suggested that corruption was a key issue for many voters. Soon after the elections, Donald Rumsfeld resigned as secretary of defense to be replaced by Bob Gates.\n\nIn the Republican leadership elections that followed the general election, Speaker Hastert did not run and Republicans chose John Boehner of Ohio for House Minority Leader. Senators chose whip Mitch McConnell of Kentucky for Senate Minority Leader and chose their former leader Trent Lott as Senate Minority Whip by one vote over Lamar Alexander, who assumed their roles in January 2007. In the October and November gubernatorial elections of 2007, Republican Bobby Jindal won election for governor of Louisiana, Republican incumbent Governor Ernie Fletcher of Kentucky lost and Republican incumbent Governor Haley Barbour of Mississippi won re-election.\n\nWith President Bush ineligible for a third term and Vice President Dick Cheney not pursuing the party's nomination, Arizona Senator John McCain quickly emerged as the Republican Party's presidential nominee, receiving President Bush's endorsement on March 6, six months before official ratification at the 2008 Republican National Convention. On August 29, Senator McCain announced Governor Sarah Palin of Alaska as his running-mate, making her the first woman on a Republican Presidential ticket. McCain surged ahead of Obama in the national polls following the nomination but amid a financial crisis and a serious economic downturn, McCain and Palin went on to lose the election to Democrats Barack Obama and running mate Joe Biden.\n\nFollowing the 2008 elections, the Republican Party, reeling from the loss of the presidency, Congress and key state governorships, was fractured and leaderless. Michael Steele became the first black chairman of the Republican National Committee, but was a poor fundraiser and was replaced after numerous gaffes and missteps. Republicans suffered an additional loss in the Senate in April 2009, when Arlen Specter switched to the Democratic Party, depriving the GOP of a critical 41st vote to block legislation in the Senate. The seating of Al Franken several months later effectively handed the Democrats a filibuster-proof majority, but it was short-lived as the GOP took back its 41st vote when Scott Brown won a special election in Massachusetts in early 2010.\n\nRepublicans strongly opposed Obama's 2009 economic stimulus package and 2010 health care reform bill. The Tea Party movement, formed in early 2009, provided a groundswell of conservative grassroots activism to oppose policies of the Obama administration. With an expected economic recovery being criticized as sluggish, the GOP was expected to make big gains in the 2010 midterm elections. However, establishment Republicans began to see themselves at odds with Tea Party activists, who sought to run conservative candidates in primary elections to defeat the more moderate establishment-based candidates. Incumbent senators such as Bob Bennett in Utah and Lisa Murkowski in Alaska lost primary contests in their respective states.\n\nRepublicans won back control of the House of Representatives in the November general election, with a net gain of 63 seats, the largest gain for either party since 1948. The GOP also picked up six seats in the Senate, falling short of retaking control in that chamber, and posted additional gains in state governor and legislative races. Boehner became Speaker of the House while McConnell remained as the Senate Minority Leader. In an interview with \"National Journal\" magazine about congressional Republican priorities, McConnell explained that \"the single most important thing we want to achieve is for (Barack) Obama to be a one-term president\".\n\nIn February 2011, several freshmen Republican governors began proposing legislation that would diminish the power of public employee labor unions by removing or negatively affecting their right to collective bargaining, claiming that these changes were needed to cut state spending and balance the states' budgets. These actions sparked public-employee protests across the country. In Wisconsin, the veritable epicenter of the controversy, Governor Scott Walker fought off a labor-fueled recall election, becoming the first state governor in U.S. history to defeat a recall against him.\n\nAfter leading a pack of minor candidates for much of 2010 and 2011, former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney, despite outmatching his opponents in both money and organization, struggled to hold on to his lead for the 2012 GOP nomination. As the presidential campaign season headed toward the voting stage in January 2012, one candidate after another surged past Romney, held the lead for a few weeks, then fell back. According to the RealClearPolitics 2012 polling index, five candidates at one time or another were the top choice of GOP voters: Texas Governor Rick Perry, motivational speaker Herman Cain, former Speaker Newt Gingrich, former Senator Rick Santorum and Romney himself.\n\nAfter losing to Santorum in Iowa and Gingrich in South Carolina, Romney racked up a number of wins in later contests, emerging as the eventual frontrunner after taking the lion's share of states and delegates in the crucial Super Tuesday contests, despite an embarrassing loss in the Colorado caucuses and near-upsets in the Michigan and Ohio primaries. Romney was nominated in August and chose Congressman Paul Ryan, a young advocate of drastic budget cuts, as his running mate. Throughout the summer polls showed a close race and Romney had a good first debate, but otherwise had trouble reaching out to ordinary voters. He lost to Obama 51% to 47% and instead of gaining in the Senate as expected, Republicans lost seats.\n\nThe party mood was glum in 2013 and one conservative analyst concluded: It would be no exaggeration to say that the Republican Party has been in a state of panic since the defeat of Mitt Romney, not least because the election highlighted American demographic shifts and, relatedly, the party's failure to appeal to Hispanics, Asians, single women and young voters. Hence the Republican leadership's new willingness to pursue immigration reform, even if it angers the conservative base.\n\nIn March 2013, National Committee Chairman Reince Priebus gave a stinging postmortem on the GOP's failures in 2012, calling on the party to reinvent itself and to endorse immigration reform and said: \"There's no one reason we lost. Our message was weak; our ground game was insufficient; we weren't inclusive; we were behind in both data and digital; and our primary and debate process needed improvement\". Priebus proposed 219 reforms, including a $10 million marketing campaign to reach women, minorities and gays; a shorter, more controlled primary season; and better data collection and research facilities.\n\nThe party's official opposition to same-sex marriage came under attack. Meanwhile, social conservatives such as Rick Santorum and Mike Huckabee remained opposed to same-sex marriage and warned that evangelicals would desert if the GOP dropped the issue. Many leaders from different factions spoke out in 2013 on the need for a new immigration policy in the wake of election results showing a sharp move away from the GOP among Hispanics and Asians, but the Republicans in Congress could not agree on a program and nothing was done. Republicans in Congress forced a government shutdown in late 2013 after narrowly averting similar fiscal crises in 2011 and 2012.\n\nThe Tea Party fielded a number of anti-establishment candidates in the 2014 Republican primaries, but scored very few notable wins. However, they managed to unseat House Majority Leader Eric Cantor in his Virginia primary race. GOP attacks on Obama's unpopular administration resonated with voters and the party posted major gains around the country. They regained control of the Senate and increased their majorities in the House to the highest total since 1929. They took control of governorships, state legislatures and Senate seats in nearly all Southern states, except Florida and Virginia.\n\nGreat divisions in the House GOP conference were apparent after the 2014 midterm elections, with conservative members, many of them from the right-leaning Freedom Caucus, expressing dissatisfaction with congressional leadership. John Boehner's surprise announcement in September 2015 that he would step down as Speaker sent shockwaves through the House. After Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy bowed out of the race to replace Boehner due to a lack of support, House Ways and Means Chair Paul Ryan announced he would run, with the Freedom Caucus' support. Ryan was elected Speaker on October 29.\n\nBusinessman Donald Trump won the 2016 Republican primaries, representing a dramatic policy shift from traditional conservatism to a more aggressive populist theme with overtones of cultural identity politics. Numerous high-profile Republicans, including past nominees like Mitt Romney, announced their opposition to Trump, even after he was formally nominated as the GOP candidate for President. Much of this opposition to Trump within the party stemmed from concerns that his disdain for political correctness (for which he was criticized for his remarks and policy proposals concerning ethnic and religious minorities and immigrants) and related support by the ethno-nationalist alt-right, his virulent criticism of the mainstream news media and accusations of him inciting violence at his campaign rallies, among other issues dealing with the tone and tenor of his campaign, would result in the GOP losing the presidential election and lead to significant losses for the party in that year's Congressional elections. Trump went on to defeat Hillary Clinton in the 2016 presidential election, which is arguably the biggest upset in political history.\n\nAfter the 2016 elections, Republicans maintained a majority in the Senate, House, Governorships and elected Trump as President. The Republican Party is set to control 69 of 99 state legislative chambers in 2017, the most it has held in history; and at least 33 governorships, the most it has held since 1922. The party currently has total control of government (legislative chambers and governorship) in 25 states, the most since 1952, while the opposing Democratic Party has full control in five states.\n\nTrump's win resulted in criticism and analysis about the Republican Party's rightward shift in recent years, precipitated by the Tea Party's rise during the Obama presidency. Scholars and commentators on the left and right have suggested that the shift was the \"natural evolutionary product of Republican platforms and strategies that stretch back to the very origins of modern conservatism\", particularly the party's use of the Southern strategy to increase support among Southern whites by appealing to racism, along with using other methods of identity politics to attract whites and the religious right opposed to the LGBT community and to Muslims in recent years that led to the ethno-nationalist politics used by Trump and Republican candidates who have run in state and federal elections beginning with the 2017 off-year races who were motivated by his 2016 presidential win.\n\nMany critics and political scholars also suggest that the hyper-partisanship of the American political systems has resulted in Republican support for authoritarianism leadership increasing prior to as well as since Trump's ascension to the presidency, with some commentators tracing this back to Newt Gingrich's \"Republican Revolution\" in the 1990s. Establishment politicians in the GOP—with few exceptions, such as Jeff Flake and Bob Corker—have faced criticism since Trump took office for making little effort in the party being made to push back against the authoritarianism many of his critics across the political spectrum suggest he exhibits. Several candidates in the 2017 and 2018 midterm elections have run on a platform that primarily exhalts their support of Trump and have emulated his playbook by echoing similar ethno-nationalistic appeals, verbal attacks on mainstream news media and calls to imprison Trump's political opponents. Political scientists Christopher Federico, Stanley Feldman and Christopher Weber explained in their 2018 book \"Remaking Partisan Politics through Authoritarian Sorting\" that the divide in American politics that precipitated this trend is driven by political polarization, evolution of media consumption and the rise of perceived \"threats to the traditional social order\", making authoritarianism \"part and parcel of Republican identity among non-Hispanic white Americans\". A March 2018 report from the Democracy Fund Voter Study Group revealed that 32% of Republican primary voters who supported Trump preferred a \"strong leader who doesn’t have to bother with Congress or elections\", a much higher percentage than among voters for any other primary candidate of either political party. Such preferences were strong among voters who switched from voting for Obama in 2012 to Trump in 2016, with 45% of them supporting a \"strong leader\" and disagreeing that \"democracy is preferable to any other kind of government\".\n\nThe voter base of the GOP has been changing in directions opposite from national trends. It has become older and less Hispanic or Asian than the general population. Jackie Calmes has reported a dramatic shift in the power base of the party, as it moves away from the Northeast and Pacific States and toward small-town America in the South and West. During the 2016 presidential election, the Republicans also gained significant support in the Midwest. It has become more populist in its distrust of large corporations and of state and federal governments.\n\nIn a shift over a half-century, the party base has been transplanted from the industrial Northeast and urban centers to become rooted in the South and West, in towns and rural areas. In turn, Republicans are electing more populist, antitax and antigovernment conservatives who are less supportive — and even suspicious — of appeals from big business.<br><br>Big business, many Republicans believe, is often complicit with big government on taxes, spending and even regulations, to protect industry tax breaks and subsidies — \"corporate welfare,\" in their view.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5868223", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5868223", "title": "Indigenismo", "text": "Indigenismo\n\nIndigenismo () is a political ideology in several Latin American countries emphasizing the relation between the nation state and indigenous nations and indigenous minorities. In some contemporary uses, it refers to the pursuit of greater social and political inclusion for indigenous peoples of the Americas, whether through national-level reforms or region-wide alliances. In either case, this type of indigenismo seeks to vindicate indigenous cultural and linguistic difference, assert indigenous rights, and seek recognition and in some cases compensation for past wrongdoings of the colonial and republican states. Hispanismo is a similar but opposite ideology. Nevertheless some historical figures like José Martí are classified as having been both indigenistas and hispanistas.\n\nA second use of the term, however, is more common and has more historical depth. Originally, indigenismo was a component of nationalist ideology that became influential in Mexico after the consolidation of the revolution of 1910–20. This \"indigenismo\" also lauded some aspects of indigenous cultural heritage, but primarily as a relic of the past. Within the larger national narrative of the Mexican nation as the product of European and Amerindian \"race mixture,\" indigenismo was the expression of nostalgia for an imagined, folklorized figure of indigeneity.\n\nDuring the administration of Plutarco Elías Calles (1924–28), Moisés Sáenz, who held a doctorate from Columbia University and was a follower of John Dewey's educational methods, implemented aspects of indigenismo in the Department of Public Education. Sáenz had initially taken an assimilationist position on the \"Indian problem,\" but after a period of residence in the Purépecha community of Carapan, he shifted his stance to one focusing on the material conditions affecting the indigenous. He influenced the administration of Lázaro Cárdenas (1934–40), which established the cabinet-level position of the Department of Indigenous Affairs in 1936. The department's main efforts were in the economic and educational spheres. Cárdenas valorized indigeneity, as indicated by the creation of the cabinet-level position and resources put into indigenous communities. In 1940, Mexico hosted a multinational meeting on indigenism, The Congress of Inter-American Indigenismo, held in Pátzcuaro, where Cárdenas himself addressed the gathering. President Miguel Alemán reorganized the Mexican government's policies directed at the indigenous by creating the National Indigenista Institute (\"Instituto Nacional Indigenista\" or INI). In the Vicente Fox administration, the unit was reorganized and renamed. \n\nThe valorization of indigeneity was rarely carried over to contemporary indigenous people, who were targeted for assimilation into modern Mexican society. Though the authors of indigenista policies saw themselves as seeking to protect and relieve indigenous people, their efforts did not make a clean break with the overtly racist forced assimilation of the pre-revolutionary past.\n\nIn Peru it is associated with the APRA movement founded by Víctor Raúl Haya de la Torre (1924). APRA dominated Peruvian politics for decades as the singular well organized political party in Peru which was not centered on one person. To some APRA or \"Aprismo\" in its pure form stood for the nationalization of foreign-owned enterprises and an end to the exploitation of Indians. To others it was about the combining of modern economics and technology with the historical traditions of the countryside and Indian populations to create a new and unique model for social and economic development.\n"}
{"id": "1560024", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1560024", "title": "Israel Jacobson", "text": "Israel Jacobson\n\nIsrael Jacobson (17 October 1768, Halberstadt – 14 September 1828, Berlin) was a German-Jewish philanthropist and communal organiser. While he lacked a systematic religious approach, he is considered one of the heralds of Reform Judaism.\n\nThe only son of wealthy businessman and philanthropist Israel Jacob, Jacobson's parents lived modestly yet contributed considerably to reducing the community debt. Owing to the very low level of efficiency of the Halberstadt public schools, Israel attended mainly the Jewish religious school, in his leisure hours studying German literature and the works of Gotthold Ephraim Lessing and Moses Mendelssohn on his own account. His level of understanding of rabbinic literature and Hebrew led professors at the University of Helmstedt, where he was eventually granted a degree, to declare that Jacobson was a Hebrew scholar.\n\nAt the age of eighteen, after having accumulated a small fortune, he married Mink Samson, the daughter of respected financier Herz Samson and granddaughter of Philip Samson, founder of the Samson-Schule at Wolfenbüttel, at which Leopold Zunz and Isaak Markus Jost were educated. Through the Samson family, Jacobson became friends with Charles William Ferdinand, Duke of Brunswick and Lunenburg, Prince of Wolfenbüttel, favorite nephew of Frederick II of Prussia. Jacobson took up his residence in Brunswick and, possessing great financial ability, rapidly increased his fortune. It was through Jacobson's influence and persuasion that in 1803 the so-called \"Leibzoll\" (poll-tax), then levied from Jews in many German states, was abolished in the ducal Brunswick-Lunenburgian Principality of Wolfenbüttel.\n\nDeveloping a belief in egalitarian and religious pluralism in education, he established (1801) in Seesen, near the Harz Mountains, a school in which forty children of Jewish parents and twenty children of Christian parents were to be educated together, receiving free board and lodging. This close association of children of different creeds was a favorite idea of his. The Jacobson school soon obtained a wide reputation, and hundreds of pupils from neighboring places were educated there. During the hundred years of its existence, it has stood foremost in every line of educational work.\n\nJacobson very soon perceived the necessity of imbuing the young as early as possible with proper religious impressions. In 1810 he built a beautiful temple within the school grounds and showed his sympathies for reforming ritual by adding Hymns in German that were sung by a choir of boys, and prayers in German were added to those in Hebrew and Aramaic. He also had a pipe organ installed. Though not unheard of in synagogues before, its subsequent association with the new movement would later anathemize the organ in the eyes of the Orthodox in Central Europe (albeit it was introduced, without controversy, in France and Italy). The progressive nature of his views was further shown by his strong advocacy of the introduction of confirmation. In the Seesen temple it was Jacobson himself who confirmed the first five Jewish boys. When, under Napoleon's rule, the Kingdom of Westphalia was created, and the emperor's brother Jérôme Bonaparte was placed at its head, Jacobson, who had removed to the residence of the king at Cassel, was appointed president of the Jewish consistory (), established on 3 March 1808. In his capacity as consistorial president, assisted by a board of officers, he did his best to exercise a reforming influence upon the various congregations of the country. He also advocated a seminary for the training of Jewish teachers. A double portrait of him and his first wife Mink Samson, painted by the Jewish court-painter Salomon Pinhas (ca. 1808) is at the European Art collection of the Israel Museum, Jerusalem.\n\nJacobson's innovations were quite restrained, and more importantly his mode of thought was still within a traditional framework. He justified himself on conventional halachic grounds, later enlisting scholars to write responsa in favour of his worship style. His role in the introduction of these early reforms made him a founding figure in the eyes of some partisans of Reform Judaism, but Michael A. Meyer noted that he lacked either a comprehensive approach or a sense of principled critique. His religious worldview, according to Meyer, did not stray beyond that of late \"maskilim\"; he \"was not a conscious Reformer\", interested in modifying religious mechanisms themselves, only exteriors. While his associates, mainly Eduard Kley, would later publish the first unequivocal Reform liturgy in 1818, effecting a concerted Orthodox backlash, the Westphalian Consistory's aroused little ire at their time. Its reforms were adopted by German neo-Orthodoxy, and Rabbi Samson Raphael Hirsch \"integrated fully into his worldview the program of the moderate Haskalah and even the aesthetic reforms of the Westphalian consistory.\"\n\nAfter the Duchy of Mecklenburg-Schwerin emancipated its Jewish subjects in 1813, Jacobson bought in that duchy two feudal manor estates, Klenz and Gehmkendorf and the peasant village Klein Markow (all three are components of today's Jördenstorf). In 1816 he swore his oath of fealty to Frederick Francis I, Grand Duke of Mecklenburg-Schwerin, thus becoming the first Jew with a permanent seat and vote in the Estates of the Realm of a German state. As feudal lord he also held the patrimonial jurisdiction over his vassal peasants and the patronage of the pertaining Lutheran churches, which he conveyed to a Lutheran confidant. In 1817 he further acquired the neighbouring estates of Grambow and Tressow. His life and work, especially this part, is commemorated—among other things—in the permanent exhibition on Mecklenburg's Jewish history in the museum \"Engelscher Hof\" and the half-timbered former synagogue in Röbel, 66 km south of Jördenstorf.\n\nAfter Napoleon's fall (1815) Jacobson moved to Berlin, where he continued to introduce reforms in beliefs and divine service. For this purpose he opened in his own house a hall for worship in which eloquent sermons were delivered by Zunz, Eduard Kley (1789–1867), and Isaak Lewin Auerbach. Eduard Kley founded in 1817 the Hamburg Temple in this spirit. - However, the Prussian government, remembering the French sympathies of Jacobson, and receiving continued complaints from the Orthodox rabbis, ordered the services at Jacobson's house discontinued. Jacobson, using the title Consistorial President rtrd. (), aroused some unrest among Protestant clergy in Berlin, who considered that title to be exclusive for the retired consistorial presidents of the Evangelical Church in Prussia.\n\nThroughout his life Jacobson seized every opportunity to promote a cordial understanding between Jews and Christians, and his great wealth enabled him to support many poor of both faiths. His grave is preserved in the Jewish cemetery on Schönhauser Allee in Berlin.\n\n"}
{"id": "32762681", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32762681", "title": "James Charteris, 13th Earl of Wemyss", "text": "James Charteris, 13th Earl of Wemyss\n\nJames Donald Charteris , 13th Earl of Wemyss and 9th Earl of March, (also known as Jamie Neidpath; born 22 June 1948) is a Scottish nobleman.\n\nWemyss is the second son of Francis David Charteris, 12th Earl of Wemyss, and his first wife, Mavis Murray. He was educated at Eton College. While a teenager he was Page of Honour to the Queen Mother. He went to Oxford (BA 1969, MA 1974), obtaining a DPhil from St Antony's College in 1975. He obtained a diploma from the Royal Agricultural College in 1978. He is known to have undergone an operation of trepanation, the practice of drilling holes in the head, in 1996 in Cairo. He said, \"It seemed to be very beneficial.\"\n\nHe runs Alro Group, a real estate fund management group.\n\nHe became heir apparent to the Earldoms of Wemyss and March on the death of his elder brother, Iain David Charteris, Lord Elcho, in 1954. He was subsequently known as Lord Neidpath as opposed to the usual courtesy title of Lord Elcho. He was appointed a Deputy Lieutenant of Gloucestershire in 2005, and is a supporter of UKIP, to whom he has made at least £54,000 in donations.\n\nHe married the Hon. Catherine Ingrid Guinness (born 1952), daughter of Jonathan, 3rd Baron Moyne (and granddaughter of Diana Mitford and Bryan Guinness), in July 1983. They had a son, Francis Richard, who is the heir to the earldoms, and a daughter, Lady Mary Olivia, a model and singer. James and Catherine were divorced in 1988, and she married Robert Hesketh in 1990.\n\nHe later married Amanda Claire Marian Feilding in January 1995. She founded and directs the Beckley Foundation, a charitable trust which carries out pioneering scientific research into psychoactive drugs and consciousness, and promotes evidence-based, health-oriented drug policy reform. They live at Stanway House in Gloucestershire and at Gosford House in East Lothian.\n"}
{"id": "23812483", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23812483", "title": "Land&amp;Liberty", "text": "Land&amp;Liberty\n\nLand&Liberty is a quarterly magazine of popular political economics: its focus is the relationship between land and natural resource rights and 21st century economic policy. Published in the UK it covers international affairs and events from a global perspective.\n\nThe magazine contains major features, editorial and comment, news and reports, reviews, interviews and readers' letters.\n\n\"Land&Liberty\" has no political alignment in the conventional sense. However the magazine is not editorially neutral on issues. \"Land&Liberty's\" key concern is how the global common wealth should be used, and it aims to demonstrate that this question is key to effective and just public policy—to the sustainable bridging of private life, the public sector and common resources. \"Land&Liberty's\" focus therefore is radical justice in property rights and taxation.\n\n\"Land&Liberty\" forecast the 2008 global crisis and housing crash. In the middle of the economic optimism of 2004, it wrote: \"There’s trouble ahead. A housing crash is coming.\" Its 'Crash' cover story issue was published in the first week of September 2007, just days before the events at Northern Rock that caught the economic establishment unawares.\n\nSince the 1980s \"Land&Liberty\" has been an influence on the political opposition within Zimbabwe. In August 2008, the Movement for Democratic Change presented their political programme for the coalition government that they had entered into with the Zimbabwe African National Union - Patriotic Front (ZANU-PF) party. It included a policy for raising public revenue from a tax on land values, as advocated by \"Land&Liberty\": \"the MDC will through an Act of Parliament establish a Land Commission whose mandate is to…[i]ntroduce an equitable Land Tax\". The party’s Policy Coordinator General, Eddie Cross, wrote in a 2009 article in \"Land&Liberty\" that his party’s new policies would help ensure that \"secure communities will become free communities with the capacity to confront and control those in charge of the state\".\n\nLand&Liberty is the world's longest-running periodical advocating the social reform advanced by Henry George—of whom Albert Einstein once said: \"one cannot imagine a more beautiful combination of intellectual keenness, artistic form and fervent love of justice\".\n\n\"Land&Liberty\" was launched in June 1894 under the title \"The Single Tax\", published as \"The Organ of the Scottish Land Restoration Union\". Perhaps foreseeing George Bernard Shaw’s later remark, in 1928, that \"the Single Taxers are not wrong in principle; but they are behind the times\", the periodical changed its title in 1902 to \"Land Values\" and subsequently in 1919 to \"Land&Liberty\".\n\nThe periodical was initially the campaigning voice of the Scottish Land Restoration Union. The Union and its antecedents were a contemporary political force in Scotland, launching the career of Keir Hardie, the first socialist elected to the UK Parliament, who went on to become the Labour Party's first leader. Inspired by Henry George, the Union's activism helped deliver—through its publication \"The Single Tax\": \"an American impulse behind the Scottish labor movement, which became historic in making the modern Labour party, and in forging the character of twentieth-century Britain.\" Yet within its first year—recording historic shudders in the evolution of British socialism and the birth of the Labour party—the magazine was writing: \"what have the Labour Party to offer us? Anything or everything but the single tax.\".\n\nEarly contributions to the magazine included original writing by Henry George (including first publishings of private material), Arthur Withy, Louis F Post and Leo Tolstoy (again including first publishings of private material).\n\nThe magazine published its correspondence from around the world, such as from New Zealand's Patrick O'Regan, and enjoyed secondary publishing rights from writers and thinkers such as Mark Twain and Herbert Spencer.\n\nThrough the years \"Land&Liberty\" has reported on and contributed to the debate on major world events. It has provided analyses of, among other things, the 'Irish Problem', the Scottish crofting movement and the Highland Clearances, the genesis of two World Wars, the creation of the United Nations and the other global institutions, the formulation of the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights, Europe's withdrawal from empire’s colonial project, and the middle east conflict.\n\nThe paper reported extensively the events surrounding the 1909 UK People’s Budget, and the resultant House of Lords reform—contributing a major voice in the contemporary public debate. The paper's reporters recorded a unique archive of speeches by Lloyd George, Churchill, Asquith and Campbell-Bannerman among others, as they toured the country in support of their cause.\n\nRecent contributors to \"Land&Liberty\" include former Danish MP and MEP Ib Christensen, Fred Harrison, Mason Gaffney, Michael Hudson, the English High Court Judge Sir Kenneth Jupp, James Robertson and (now former) Friends of the Earth director Charles Secrett. Public figures interviewed in \"Land&Liberty\" in recent years include John Bird, Bob Kiley, Alastair McIntosh, George Monbiot and Steve Norris. \"Land&Liberty's\" original output is periodically taken up by the publishing mainstream.\n\n\n\"Land&Liberty\" is published by the Henry George Foundation of Great Britain, an independent economic and social justice think tank and public education group. The Foundation and its immediate organisational predecessors have been proprietors since 1907, before which the magazine was owned by Scottish land reform groups.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51955491", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51955491", "title": "Legislative Council of Sierra Leone", "text": "Legislative Council of Sierra Leone\n\nThe Legislative Council of Sierra Leone was the official executive body that governed the Crown Colony of Sierra Leone. The Members of the Colonial Council were accorded the title of 'Honorable' and were responsible for decision-making in the Colony of Sierra Leone.\n\nThe Sierra Leone Company was the official company that founded the Colony of Sierra Leone and established the governing council body that governed the private colony of Sierra Leone.\n\nThe Colonial Council or Governor's Council of Sierra Leone was organised in a similar structure to colonial councils in India and elsewhere. \n\nThe Council was headed by the Governor of Sierra Leone and the senior colonial council was composed of the Chief Justice and Colonial Secretary of Sierra Leone.\n\nIn 1863, the Colonial Council of Sierra Leone was reorganised as the Legislative Council in accordance with other British Crown Colonies in the Empire. Sierra Leonean merchants and professionals were appointed as 'Unofficial Members' of the Legislative Council and could advise, but not veto, the bills of law that were passed by the Executive Council.\n\n"}
{"id": "31959638", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31959638", "title": "Milk quota", "text": "Milk quota\n\nA milk quota (or more accurately dairy produce quota) was one of the measures used by governments in the European Union to intervene in agriculture. Their purpose was to bring rising milk production under control. Milk quotas were attached to land holdings, and they represented a cap on the amount of milk that a farmer could sell every year without paying a levy. Milk quotas were assets; they could be bought and sold, or acquired or lost by other means, and there was a market for them.\n\nMilk quotas were withdrawn on 31 March 2015.\n\nMilk quotas were first introduced in the United Kingdom on 2 April 1984 under the Dairy Produce Quotas Regulations 1984, which reflected the then European Economic Community (now the European Union's) Common Agricultural Policy. Originally they were to run until 1989, but they were extended several times, and were not renewed for the period following 31 March 2015.\n\nEach member of the European Economic Community was allowed to produce dairy products up to a cap, which was based on each state's 1981 production, plus 1%. The cap was designated the \"reference quantity\". A levy to the EEC was due on production in excess of the reference quantity. This levy was then to be recovered from the farmers or dairies involved. Until 2002, recovery of the levy was down to the Intervention Board for Agricultural Produce. It was then recovered by the Rural Payments Agency on behalf of DEFRA (the Department of Environment, Food and Rural Affairs).\n\nThe Dairy Produce Quotas Regulations 1994, which came into effect from 1 April 1994, substantially revised the old structure. Until 31 March 1994, the MAFF (\"Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food\", a British government department that has since been replaced by DEFRA) was responsible for milk quotas, together with the Secretaries of State for Scotland and Wales and the Department of Agriculture for Northern Ireland. On the MAFF's behalf, Milk Marketing Boards kept a register of quotas that detailed which farmers or dairies held what quotas. The Milk Marketing Boards were dissolved on 31 October 1994 (in England, Wales and Scotland) and 28 February 1995 (in Northern Ireland).\n\nThe final regulations governing milk quotas were the Dairy Produce Quotas Regulations 2005, the Dairy Produce Quotas (Scotland) Regulations 2005and the Dairy Produce (Quotas) (Wales) Regulations 2005, as amended.\n\nThere were five kinds of milk quota:\n\nThe EEC did not originally mean for milk quotas to attract a value. Contrary to their intent, milk quotas became a valuable asset, although prices fell towards the end of their life. Milk quotas could be purchased outright or leased.\n\nAlthough the quotas were normally attached to land, and transferred with it provided the transfer is not a tenancy of less than ten months, they could be traded separately. The legality of such a transfer was questioned by the Courts, particularly in \"Carson v Cornwall County Council\" [1993] 1 EGLR 21, [1993] 03 EG 119, but since 1994 was accepted, at least in a limited way, in for example \"Harris v Barclays Bank Plc [1997] 2 EGLR 15, [1997] 45 EG 145, CA.\n\nMilk quotas could also be transferred without payment, where the tenant of a holding under the Agricultural Holdings Act 1986 ceased to use that land for dairy farming purposes for five years and transferred that quota to other land that he held for dairy farming purposes, provided there was no quota protection clause in the tenancy. In the absence of such a clause, a tenant under either the Agricultural Holdings Act 1986 or the Agricultural Tenancies Act 1995 also seemed, in principle, to be free to sell the quota attaching to the land he rented on the open market. This has been called quota \"massage\" or even quota \"theft\", though Williams (2011) calls this last term \"inelegant and inappropriate\", such a transfer being apparently lawful.\n\nDisputes about milk quota were generally referred to arbitration.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39530602", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39530602", "title": "NGO Monitor", "text": "NGO Monitor\n\nNGO Monitor (Non-governmental Organization Monitor) is a non-governmental organization based in Jerusalem, which analyzes and reports on the output of the international NGO community from a pro-Israel perspective. It has been characterized as being pro-Israel and as right-wing. NGO Monitor says in its mission statement that it was founded \"to promote accountability, and advance a vigorous discussion on the reports and activities of humanitarian NGOs in the framework of the Arab–Israeli conflict.\" \n\nThe organization was founded in 2001 by Gerald M. Steinberg under the auspices of the Jerusalem Center for Public Affairs. NGO Monitor became a legally and financially independent organization in 2007. \n\nThe organization has been criticized by academic figures, diplomats, and journalists who have said that NGO Monitor's research is not objective, that it does not examine right-wing NGOs, and that it puts out information that it knows is wrong. Other journalists have praised the organization for investigating and exposing self-described human rights groups as being what they call anti-Israeli groups.\n\nNGO Monitor states that its mission is to \"end the practice used by certain self-declared 'humanitarian NGOs' of exploiting the label 'universal human rights values' to promote politically and ideologically motivated agendas\". A number of academics have written that NGO Monitor's aims and activities are political in nature.\n\nThe organization's leader Gerald M. Steinberg has reportedly worked for the Israeli Foreign Ministry and the Office of the Prime Minister while heading NGO Monitor.\n\nNGO Monitor is the central project of the Organization for NGO Responsibility, an independent non-profit organization registered in Israel. Its president is Gerald M. Steinberg, professor of Political Science at Bar-Ilan University.\n\nIts staff includes:\n\nIts critics state that NGO Monitor is not transparent about its own funding, a claim denied by NGO Monitor. The Wechsler Family Foundation is one of the founding donors of NGO Monitor. Other acknowledged supporters are Nina Rosenwald (New York) and Newt Becker (Los Angeles). Since its separation from the Jerusalem Center for Public Affairs (JCPA) and its formation as an independent organization in 2007, NGO Monitor has drawn on a wider range of funding sources. NGO Monitor has said it receives no governmental support and is currently funded by private donors and foundations, although it did receive some funds, in 2010 and 2011, via The Jewish Agency for Israel (JAFI), a quasi-governmental agency.\n\nIn 2010, the organization received a $500,000 grant from \"Research + Evaluation = Promoting Organizational Responsibility and Transparency\" (REPORT), formerly known as \"American Friends of NGO Monitor\" (AFNGOM). Private donors in the US were asked on the NGO Monitor's website to donate via REPORT. Other donors have been \"The Center for Jewish Community Studies\" (part of JCPA), \"American Friends of NGO Monitor\" (REPORT), Orion Foundation, Matan, Peter Simpson (Jerusalem), Nir Ben Josef, Real Property Investment, DR. Tuchmen, Jewish Federations of North America and the \"Wechsler Family Foundation\". NGO Monitor's financial reports for 2009 to 2012, which includes donations above NIS 20,000 (approximately $5,200.00 as of 2012), are available on its website.\n\nAccording to a February 2012 article written by Uri Blau in \"Haaretz\", his examination of NGO Monitor's finances revealed that \"the organization sought to block the publication of one contributor and to get hundreds of thousands of Shekels from anonymous sources\". The donations in question were channeled through the Jewish Agency for Israel and Matan, and originated with undisclosed donors from outside Israel. In the same article, Jason Edelstein, NGO Monitor's communications director, is quoted as saying \"all of our financial information is fully disclosed with the Registrar for Non-Profits as required by law\".\n\nA 2015 report published by the Peace Now movement discovered that NGO Monitor failed to file a legally-required disclosure regarding the source of its funding, and that much of the who funds the group is hidden from the public.\n\nNGO Monitor maintains an online directory of NGOs worldwide, which generally includes a description of each organization, a quote from the organization itself, its funding sources, and selected quotes about the organization from publications and officials. NGO Monitor also has considerable material related to the first Durban Conference and the Durban strategy\nof divestment and boycott, as well as considerable discussion regarding the 2009 Durban Review Conference.\n\nNGO Monitor staff have co-authored two books relating to NGOs: \"Best Practices for Human Rights and Humanitarian NGO Fact-Finding\" (with founder and president, Prof. Gerald Steinberg, NGO Monitor's Legal Advisor Anne Herzberg, and NGO Monitor's Best Practices Legal Fellow, Jordan Berman) and \"The Goldstone Report 'Reconsidered': A Critical Analysis\" (with Prof. Steinberg and Anne Herzberg).\n\nIn 2009, NGO Monitor published a monograph titled \"Experts or Ideologues: Systematic Analysis of Human Rights Watch\", which includes analysis of key HRW staff members, five case studies of HRW campaigns, and quantitative analysis comparing HRW publications in the Middle East, covering the period from 2002 to 2009.\n\nNGO Monitor released a document comparing Amnesty International's response to the twenty years of ethnic, religious and racial violence during the Second Sudanese Civil War to its treatment of Israel.\n\nRashid Khalidi describes NGO Monitor as an organisation that opposes legal means against Israel while at the same time being a proponent of the use of legal means against those who criticise Israel. Sabine Lang writes that NGO Monitor has focused on the use of legal means to limit funding to NGOs.\n\nIn January 2010, Gerald Steinberg brought a case before the European Court of Justice arguing that it was wrong of the European Commission to withhold some of the contents of over 200 financial documents that NGO Monitor had requested, regarding the funding of Israeli and Palestinian NGOs. In November 2012, the court said that NGO Monitor could not receive the financial documents regarding 16 projects of human rights organizations in Israel, calling it \"in part, manifestly inadmissible and, in part, manifestly lacking any foundation in law\". The EU commented \"that the Middle East is an unstable region, and therefore such information may pose a danger to human rights groups\". Steinberg said that \"for over 10 years the EU has been keeping the information regarding funding of NGOs in complete secrecy. My conclusion is that they have something to hide. In addition to a violation of basic principles of government transparency, the secret funding is trying to manipulate the democratic process in Israel.\" Michael Sfard, a lawyer specializing in international human rights law said Steinberg \"invents demons and then chases them... All the data about the donations of foreign countries to Israeli human rights organizations are published on the Web sites of the organizations, as required by law.\"\n\nIn 2013, NGO Monitor issued a report on the findings of the 2011 Israeli law requiring Israeli non-governmental organizations to disclose financial contributions from foreign donors and governments. The report assessed that foreign funding of Israeli NGOs totalled NIS 34,355,579 in 2012. Gerald Steinberg, president of NGO Monitor, called the new law an \"international model for transparency\". Steinberg also stated his opinion that \"the amount of foreign funding going to NGOs involved in polarizing activity in the context of the Arab–Israeli conflict as 'alarming'.\" The Association for Civil Rights in Israel (ACRI) spokesman Marc Grey stated that donors to ACRI were already listed on its website making the law \"redundant\", the donations allowed organizations to protect human rights and freedoms, adding that \"the basis for Israel's relations with democratic countries is shared values – democracy and human rights above all – the State of Israel itself is a recipient of funds from these very same countries, in the framework of trade agreements, investments, loans, and donations.\" A spokesman for B'Tselem said the information had been published on their website for years and said that NGO Monitor is a group of \"Israeli government apologists masquerading as an objective watchdog. They do not even practice what they preach in terms of their own transparency and their sloppy, third-rate research.\"\n\nThe organization formerly criticized the Ford Foundation for funding the 2001 World Conference against Racism, Racial Discrimination, Xenophobia and Related Intolerance, which took place in Durban, South Africa. The Ford Foundation has modified its policies regarding funding of NGOs. It also has taken exception to such accusations and says its involvement in the Palestinian territories reflects its belief that a just solution to the conflict is vitally important to the region and the peoples directly affected and that it also funds groups such as the New Israel Fund.\n\nNGO Monitor also criticized B'Tselem, \"The Israeli Information Center for Human Rights in the Occupied Territories\".\n\nNGO Monitor has criticized the New Israel Fund, which states that its primary objective is \"to strengthen Israel's democracy\". Larry Garber, then executive director of the New Israel Fund, and Eliezer Ya'ari, then NIF's Israel director and a retired Israeli air force major, wrote in an op-ed in \"The Jerusalem Post\" that if Israel were to accept the premises of Gerald Steinberg, the director of NGO Monitor, then \"Israel's credibility—and, more important, the nation's morality—will suffer.\"\n\nWith the stated aim of encouraging critical debate on the role of NGOs in the Middle East conflict, NGO Monitor held a 2006 conference in Jerusalem with 21 humanitarian aid groups in attendance. A panel discussed the pros and cons of NGOs dealing with Hamas. NGOs such as Amnesty International, B'Tselem and Physicians for Human Rights were invited to speak but declined. Amnesty International said the conference did \"not give a balanced ground for open and fair dialogue\" while another human rights group accused NGO Monitor of \"partiality\".\n\nThe on-line communications editor of NGO Monitor, Arnie Draiman, was indefinitely banned from editing articles about the Israeli-Arab conflict for biased editing, concealing his place of work and using a second account in a way that is forbidden by Wikipedia policy. Draiman was a major contributor to the articles of his employers NGO Monitor and Gerald Steinberg, and performed hundreds of edits of human rights organizations, such as B'Tselem, the New Israel Fund, Human Rights Watch and many others NGO Monitor's president, Professor Gerald Steinberg, opposes.\n\nDr. Yoaz Hendel, a former adviser to Likud leader Benjamin Netanyahu who is now a columnist at \"Yediot Aharonot\", said that NGO Monitor is a \"serious voice in the field\".\n\n\"The Forward\", in an article written by Nathan Jeffay in January 2011, said that NGO Monitor is \"Israel's most prominent watchdog of human rights groups\".\n\nJennifer Rubin, in an opinion piece on the website of \"The Washington Post\" in December 2010, said that NGO Monitor is \"an organization that investigates and sharply criticizes many self-described human rights groups as thinly disguised anti-Israel outfits\".\n\nYossi Alpher, writing in \"The Forward\", said that since its inception, NGO Monitor has \"exposed the manipulation of some human rights campaigns to malign Israel unjustly and even to undermine its viability as a Jewish state\". But Alpher also complains that NGO Monitor \"seems dead set on eliminating human rights monitoring of Israel entirely and smearing anyone who supports this vital activity\".\n\nThe 2013 Menachem Begin Prize was awarded to NGO Monitor, \"a leading organization defending the State of Israel and the Jewish people.\" The Begin Prize is awarded for “extraordinary act(s) for the benefit of the State of Israel and/or the Jewish People.” Natan Sharansky said, “NGO Monitor is the leading organization defending the State of Israel and the Jewish people.”\n\nLeonard Fein, writing for \"The Forward\" in 2005, said that NGO Monitor is \"an organization that believes that the best way to defend Israel is to condemn anyone who criticizes it.\"\n\nYehudit Karp, a member of the International Council of the New Israel Fund and a former deputy attorney general of Israel, said that NGO Monitor has released information \"it knew to be wrong, along with some manipulative interpretation\".\n\nThe New Israel Fund said in May 2011 that NGO Monitor \"knowingly published false information in its newsletter\", regarding the NIF funding of Coalition of Women for Peace (CWP). NIF stated that NGO Monitor's director was provided with the correct information verbally in advance. NGO Monitor responded by asserting that its report was based on NIF grant information. NIF's rejoinder stated that its public records lag the end of the reporting year by several months, but reiterated that updated information was provided to NGO Monitor verbally. NIF also stated that it asked CWP to remove mention of NIF's name from the CWP website.\n\nIn July 2009, HRW issued a statement saying, \"NGO Monitor ... conducts no field investigations and condemns anyone who criticizes Israel\".\n\nUriel Heilman, a managing editor for the Jewish Telegraphic Agency (JTA) and a senior reporter for \"The Jerusalem Post\", wrote in an online opinion column that there were a \"couple of disingenuous (read: inaccurate) elements\" in the May 2009 digest of NGO Monitor. Heilman rhetorically asked whether the situation itself was \"enough for Steinberg and NGO Monitor's followers without Steinberg having to stretch the truth?\" Gerald Steinberg, head of NGO Monitor, later conceded the phrasing was confusing and revised the statement.\n\nKathleen Peratis, a member of the board of Human Rights Watch, called into question the research methodology underlying an op-ed by NGO Monitor's Steinberg for not saying specifically where or when HRW statements have been unverifiable. In 2006, she criticized NGO Monitor for accusations against Human Right Watch and its \"executive director, whose father fled Nazi Germany\". Peratis took issue with an op-ed by NGO Monitor's Gerald Steinberg titled \"Ken Roth's Blood Libel\", and argues those like NGO Monitor \"who want selective exemption of Israel from the rules of war\" may not \"have faced the implications of getting what they wish for\".\n\nIn 2009, David Newman criticized NGO Monitor for concentrating \"almost entirely with a critique of peace-related NGOs and especially those which focus on human rights, as though there were no other NGOs to examine\". He said that NGO Monitor, which he describes as a right-wing organization, had consistently refused requests to investigate the activities and funding of right-wing NGOs, many of which, Newman said, were facilitating illegal activity in the West Bank. In response, NGO Monitor wrote that it is \"an independent research organization, providing detailed, systematic, and source-based analysis and publications regarding the activities of NGOs in the Arab-Israeli conflict. The ideological label employed by Newman, 'right wing', is neither accurate nor relevant\". Newman also criticized NGO Monitor again in 2009, as well as in 2010 and 2012.\n\nIn January 2010, thirteen Israeli human rights organizations released a common statement describing NGO Monitor and Im Tirtzu as \"extremist\", and criticised an \"unbridled and incendiary attack\" by them against human rights groups.\n\nAmbassador Andrew Stanley, the EU representative to Israel, took issue with NGO Monitor's description of EU policy as operating in secret, writing that \"as Prof. Steinberg is fully aware from the various conversations we have had with him, funding of projects by the European Union worldwide is carried out by open and public calls for proposals published on EU websites, including the website of the Delegation of the European Union to the State of Israel.\" \n\nIn November 2014, Israeli Canadian journalist and author Matti Friedman described NGO Monitor as \"a pro-Israel outfit and by no means an objective observer\" \n\nMichael Edwards lists NGO Monitor among a group of organisations who use deficiencies in NGO accountability as a pretext for politically motivated attacks to silence views with which they disagree. Edwards states that they \"single out liberal or progressive groups for criticism while ignoring the same problems, if that is what they are, among NGOs allied with conservative views\". According to Joel Peters, NGO Monitor's activities include \"high profile campaigns with the aim of delegitimizing the activities of Israeli civil society and human rights organisations, especially those advocating the rights of Arab citizens of Israel and/or address the question of violations of human rights in the Occupied Territories\", to which NGO Monitor responded by saying, \"Our aims and objectives (holding political advocacy NGOs accountable, providing checks and balances, researching and publishing on these issues) are clearly spelled out.\"\n\nAccording to Naomi Chazan, NGO Monitor is closely linked to a \"tightly knit, coordinated set of associations\" whose goal is to undermine liberal voices in Israel and entrench a negative image of them by means of having \"continuously hammered away at their key message—in this instance, the abject disloyalty of certain civil society organizations and their funders and their collusion with Israel's most nefarious external detractors\". Chazan states the aim is that \"by reinforcing this mantra by every available means, innuendo could be transformed into fact\".\n\nIn an editorial published by The Forward, J.J. Goldberg termed the organization \"one of the smoothest left-bashing operations.\"\n\nIlan Baruch, Israel's former ambassador to South Africa, said in a report by the Policy Working Group (PWG), published in September, 2018 that the organization \"disseminates misleading and tendentious information, which it presents as factual in-depth research\". NGO Monitor's efforts were designed to \"defend and sustain [Israeli] government policies that help uphold Israel's occupation of ...the Palestinian territories\".\n\nNGO Monitor attempted to get The Electronic Intifada's funding by the Dutch foundation Interchurch Organisation for Development Cooperation cut in 2010 by claiming that the medium was 'anti-Semitic and frequently compares Israeli policies with those of the Nazi regime.' It also claimed that EI's executive director campaigned to delegitimize and demonize Israel. The ICCO's website praised Electronic Intifada as \"an internationally recognized daily news source\", functioning as a counterweight to pro-Israeli reportage. The ICCO's chairman, Marinus Verweij, stated in reply:\n\n'Electronic Intifada ... has become an important source of information from the occupied Palestinian territories. Newspapers such as \"The Washington Post\" and the Financial Times have frequently used material from the Electronic Intifada,' and that '(t)he rights of Palestinian people to a decent way of living are central in the news brought by the EI. The EI reports frequently about the violations of human rights and international humanitarian law by the State of Israel. In no way is the EI anti-Israel or anti-Semitic.'\n\nEI's Ali Abunimah, answering the accusations, noted that in the 'scurrilous' claims, not one piece of evidence from the over 12,000 articles printed by EI since its inception in 2001 had been cited by the NGO.\n\nAccording to a United States diplomatic cable, uncovered in the WikiLeaks documents, Prof. Gerald Steinberg said that \"he did not want the NGO legislation to feed into the delegitimizing rhetoric, but that such an unintended consequence might be an acceptable cost to reduce the power of the NGOs' current monopolization of human rights rhetoric for politicized purposes.\"\n\nIn a 2009 opinion column he writes for \"The Jerusalem Post\", Larry Derfner asserted that \"NGO Monitor doesn't have a word of criticism for Israel, nor a word of acknowledgment, even grudging, for any detail in any human rights report that shows Israel to be less than utterly blameless. In fact, on the subject of Israel's human rights record, NGO Monitor doesn't have a word of disagreement with the Prime Minister's Office.\"\n\nJohn H. Richardson, writing in \"Esquire\" magazine's online magazine in 2009 described NGO Monitor as a \"rabidly partisan organization that attacks just about anyone who dares to criticize Israel on any grounds\". It notes that Steinberg is dedicated to fighting \"the narrative war\", and has made a \"special project\" of attacking Human Rights Watch.\n\nDidi Remez, a former spokesperson for the Peace Now group and former consultant to BenOr Consulting, which was co-founded by Jeremy Ben-Ami of J Street, said NGO Monitor \"is not an objective watchdog: It is a partisan operation that suppresses its perceived ideological adversaries through the sophisticated use of McCarthyite techniques – blacklisting, guilt by association and selective filtering of facts\".\n\nIn an op-ed published in 2005 by \"The Forward\", Leonard Fein, a former professor of politics and Klutznick Professor of Contemporary Jewish Studies at Brandeis University, takes issue with NGO Monitor's statement that Human Rights Watch (HRW) places \"extreme emphasis on critical assessments of Israel\" and has issued more reports about HRW than on any other of the 75 NGOs it concerns itself with. In his op-ed, Leonard Fein wrote that HRW has devoted more attention to five other nations in the region—Iraq, Sudan, Egypt, Turkey and Iran—than they have to Israel; but that, despite extensive correspondence, Mr Steinberg has failed to correct the \"misleading\" statement about HRW on the NGO Watch website. Fein argues that NGO Monitor may not be free of the \"narrow political and ideological preferences\" of which it accuses HRW. \"The Forward\" wrote that NGO Monitor says it has increased Human Right Watch's reporting on Hamas, Hezbollah and the Palestinian Authority while Human Rights Watch has rejected the statements and said it was dealing with counterterrorism in a post-9/11 world.\n\nIn a 2004 article for the Political Research Associates, Jean Hardisty and Elizabeth Furdon describe NGO Monitor as a \"conservative NGO watchdog group ... which focuses on perceived threats to Israeli interests\", adding that \"the ideological slant of NGO Monitor's work is unabashedly pro-Israeli. It does not claim to be a politically neutral examination of NGO activities and practices.\"\n\nIttijah, Union of Arab Community-Based Organisations in Israel, has said NGO Monitor represents the interests and the say of the Israeli state rather than civil society's voice based on human rights values. Ittijah further states that NGO Monitor is guided by the Israeli Ministry of Foreign Affairs.\n\nAccording to Naomi Chazan, former New Israel Fund president, NGO Monitor is \"tied to the national-religious right\".\n\nIn an op-ed published in the Jewish Journal in 2016, Noam Shelef wrote that NGO Monitor's leaders are affiliated with the current Israeli government, and that the organization only scrutinizes progressive critics of government policies.\n\nAccording to former Associated Press reporter Matti Friedman, the AP bureau in Jerusalem gave \"explicit orders to reporters...to never quote [NGO Monitor] or its director, an American-raised professor named Gerald Steinberg.\" Friedman continues, and says, \"In my time as an AP writer moving through the local conflict, with its myriad lunatics, bigots, and killers, the only person I ever saw subjected to an interview ban was this professor.\"\n\nThe AP responded by saying, \"There was no \"ban\" on using Prof. Gerald Steinberg. He and his NGO Monitor group are cited in at least a half-dozen stories since the 2009 Gaza war.\"\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "172554", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=172554", "title": "Nuremberg Rally", "text": "Nuremberg Rally\n\nThe Nuremberg Rally (officially \"\", meaning \"Realm Party Convention\") was the annual rally of the Nazi Party in Germany, held from 1923 to 1938. They were large Nazi propaganda events, especially after Adolf Hitler's rise to power in 1933. These events were held at the Nazi party rally grounds in Nuremberg from 1933 to 1938 and are usually referred to in English as the \"Nuremberg Rallies\". Many films were made to commemorate them, the most famous of which are Leni Riefenstahl's \"Triumph of the Will\" and \"The Victory of Faith\".\n\nThe first Nazi Party rallies took place in 1923 in Munich and in 1926 in Weimar. From 1927 on, they took place exclusively in Nuremberg. The Party selected Nuremberg for pragmatic reasons: it was in the center of the German Reich and the local \"Luitpoldhain\" (converted parkland) was well suited as a venue. In addition, the Nazis could rely on the well-organized local branch of the party in Franconia, then led by \"Gauleiter\" Julius Streicher. The Nuremberg police were sympathetic to the event.\n\nLater, the location was justified by the Nazi Party by putting it into the tradition of the Imperial Diet (German \"Reichstag\") of the Holy Roman Empire, considered the First \"Reich\". After 1933, the rallies took place near the time of the Autumnal equinox, under the title of \"The German people's National Party days\" (\"Reichsparteitage des deutschen Volkes\"), which was intended to symbolize the solidarity between the German people and the Nazi Party. This point was further emphasized by the yearly growing number of participants, which finally reached over half a million from all sections of the party, the army, and the state.\n\nEach rally was given a programmatic title, which related to recent national events:\n\nOfficial films for the rallies began in 1927, with the establishment of the NSDAP (Nazi Party) film office. The most famous films were made by Leni Riefenstahl for the rallies between 1933 and 1935. Relating to the theme of the rally, she called her first movie \"Victory of Faith\" (\"Der Sieg des Glaubens\"). This movie was taken out of circulation after the Night of the Long Knives, although a copy survived in Britain and has recently been made available on the Internet Archive for public viewing. The rally of 1934 became the setting for the award-winning \"Triumph of the Will\" (\"Triumph des Willens\"). Several generals in the \"Wehrmacht\" protested over the minimal army presence in the film: Hitler apparently proposed modifying the film to placate the generals, but Riefenstahl refused his suggestion. She did agree to return to the 1935 rally and make a film exclusively about the Wehrmacht, which became \"\".\n\nThe rallies for 1936 and 1937 were covered in \"Festliches Nürnberg\", which was shorter than the others, only 21 minutes.\n\nThere were two sets of official or semi-official books covering the rallies. The \"red books\" were officially published by the NSDAP and contained the proceedings of the \"congress\" as well as full texts of every speech given in chronological order.\n\nThe \"blue books\" were published initially by Julius Streicher, the \"Gauleiter\" of Nuremberg, later by Hanns Kerrl, not by the party press. These were larger scale books that included the text of speeches and proceedings, as well as larger photographs.\n\nIn addition to these, collections of Heinrich Hoffman's photographs were published to commemorate each Party congress, as well as pamphlets of Hitler's speeches. Both series of books are much sought after by collectors.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "580146", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=580146", "title": "Operation Valkyrie", "text": "Operation Valkyrie\n\nOperation Valkyrie () was a German World War II emergency continuity of government operations plan issued to the Territorial Reserve Army of Germany to execute and implement in case of a general breakdown in civil order of the nation. Failure of the government to maintain control of civil affairs might have been caused by the Allied bombing of German cities, or uprising of the millions of foreign forced laborers working in German factories.\n\nGerman Army (\"Heer\") officers General Friedrich Olbricht, Major General Henning von Tresckow, and Colonel Claus von Stauffenberg modified the plan with the intention of using it to take control of German cities, disarm the SS, and arrest the Nazi leadership once Hitler had been assassinated in the 20 July plot. Hitler's death (as opposed to his arrest) was required to free German soldiers from their oath of loyalty to him (\"Reichswehreid\"). After lengthy preparation, the plot was activated in 1944, but failed.\nThe original plan, designed to deal with internal disturbances in emergency situations, was designed by General Friedrich Olbricht's staff in his capacity as head of General Army Office and was approved by Hitler. \n\nThe idea of using the Reserve Army in the German homeland for a potential coup existed before, but apart from Hitler himself, only Colonel-General Friedrich Fromm, Chief of the Reserve Army since 1938, could initiate Operation Valkyrie. Fromm's refusal to cooperate in a prospective coup posed a serious obstacle to the conspirators. Nevertheless, after the lessons of a failed assassination attempt on 13 March 1943, Olbricht felt that the original coup plan was inadequate and that the Reserve Army should be used in the coup even without Fromm's cooperation.\nThe original Valkyrie order only dealt with strategy to ensure combat readiness of units among scattered elements of the Reserve Army. Olbricht added a second part, 'Valkyrie II', which provided for the swift mustering of units into battle groups ready for action.\nIn August and September 1943, General Henning von Tresckow found Olbricht's revision inadequate, and thus greatly expanded the Valkyrie plan and drafted new supplementary orders. A secret declaration began with the words: \"The Führer Adolf Hitler is dead! A treacherous group of party leaders has attempted to exploit the situation by attacking our embattled soldiers from the rear to seize power for themselves.\" Detailed instructions were written for occupation of government ministries in Berlin, of Himmler's headquarters in East Prussia, of radio stations, of telephone exchanges, of other Nazi infrastructure through military districts, and of concentration camps. (Previously, it was believed that Colonel Claus Schenk von Stauffenberg was mainly responsible for the Valkyrie plan, but documents recovered by the Soviet Union after the war and released in 2007 suggest that a detailed plan was developed by Tresckow in autumn 1943.) All documents were handled by Tresckow's wife, Erika, and by Margarete von Oven, his secretary. Both women wore gloves to leave no fingerprints.\n\nIn essence, the coup plan involved tricking the Reserve Army into the seizure and removal of the civilian government of wartime Germany under the false pretense that the SS had attempted a coup d'état and assassinated Hitler. The conspirators depended on the assumption that the rank-and-file soldiers and junior officers designated to execute Operation Valkyrie would be motivated to do so based upon their false belief that the Nazi civilian leadership had behaved with disloyalty and treason against the state, and were therefore required to be removed. The conspirators counted on the soldiers to obey their orders as long as they came from the legitimate channel — namely, the Reserve Army High Command - in the emergency situation following Hitler's putative death.\n\nApart from Hitler, only General Friedrich Fromm, as commander of the Reserve Army, could activate Operation Valkyrie. For the planned coup to succeed, therefore, the plotters had either to win Fromm over to the conspiracy, or to neutralize him in some way. Fromm, like many senior officers, largely knew about the military conspiracies against Hitler, but neither supported them nor reported them to the Gestapo.\n\nThe key role in its actual implementation was played by Colonel Claus Schenk Graf von Stauffenberg, after his assassination attempt on Hitler on 20 July 1944. Stauffenberg also further improved the Valkyrie plan and made changes to address changing situations.\nStauffenberg's position as Chief of Staff of the Reserve Army gave him access to Hitler for reports and at the same time required his presence at headquarters for implementation of Valkyrie. At first, Tresckow and Stauffenberg sought out other officers with access to Hitler who could carry out the assassination. General Helmuth Stieff, Chief of Organization in Army High Command, volunteered to be the assassin but later backed down. Tresckow attempted several times to be assigned to Hitler's headquarters without success. Finally, Stauffenberg decided to carry out both the assassination attempt and the Valkyrie operation, which greatly reduced the chance of success. After two abortive attempts, Stauffenberg placed the bomb on 20 July and hurried back to Berlin to assume his pivotal role.\n\nDiscovering that the bomb had not killed Hitler, Fromm ordered the executions of General Friedrich Olbricht, his chief of staff Colonel Albrecht Mertz von Quirnheim, Colonel Claus von Stauffenberg, and his adjutant Lieutenant Werner von Haeften. Shortly after midnight, the condemned men were led to a mound of earth back-lit by idling vehicles where each was executed by firing squad in the courtyard of Bendlerstrasse headquarters.\n\nThe failed plot has been represented in historical dramatic films. Georg Wilhelm Pabst's \"Jackboot Mutiny\" (Austria, 1955), Anatole Litvak's \"The Night of the Generals\" (Britain, 1967), Ian Sharp's \"Twist of Fate\" TV miniseries (1989), Lawrence Schiller's \"The Plot to Kill Hitler\" (U.S., 1990), the German television production \"Stauffenberg\" and Bryan Singer's full-length movie \"Valkyrie\" (U.S., 2008) have addressed the plot. In the Soviet Union, it was depicted in the third part of the film series \"Liberation\". It is also worth noting that the plot to assassinate Hitler along with Von Stauffenberg was also referenced in the Season 3 episode of the British Sitcom Red Dwarf \"Timeslides\", and the Hogan's Heroes episode \"Operation Briefcase\".\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "266293", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=266293", "title": "Petit jury", "text": "Petit jury\n\nIn common law, a petit jury (or trial jury) hears the evidence in a trial as presented by both the plaintiff (petitioner) and the defendant (respondent). After hearing the evidence and often jury instructions from the judge, the group retires for deliberation, to consider a verdict. The majority required for a verdict varies. In some cases it must be unanimous, while in other jurisdictions it may be a majority or supermajority. A jury that is unable to come to a verdict is referred to as a hung jury. The size of the jury varies; in criminal cases involving serious felonies there are usually 12 jurors, although Scotland uses 15. A number of countries that are not in the English common law tradition have quasi-juries on which lay judges or jurors and professional judges deliberate together regarding criminal cases. However, the common law trial jury is the most common type of jury system.\n\nIn civil cases many trials require fewer than twelve jurors. Juries are almost never used in civil cases outside the United States and Canada. Other states with a common law tradition sometimes use them in defamation cases, in cases involving a governmental eminent domain power, and in cases involving alleged wrongful conviction. Civil law countries generally do not use civil juries. Civil juries are available in the United States and Canada in almost all cases where the only remedy sought is money damages.\n\n"}
{"id": "20119228", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20119228", "title": "Politics of memory", "text": "Politics of memory\n\nPolitics of memory is the organisation of collective memory by political agents; the political means by which events are remembered and recorded, or discarded. Eventually, politics of memory may determine the way history is written and passed on. Memories are also influenced by cultural forces, e.g. popular culture, as well as social norms. It has also been connected with the construction of identity.\n\nThe two sides in the conflict in Cyprus maintain widely divergent and contrasting memories of the events that split the island. The term selective memory is applied by psychologists to people suffering from head injuries who retain some memories, but have amnesia about others. Societal trauma, such as war, seems to have a similar effect. Recollections that are shaped out of a phenomenon common to many countries traumatized by war and repression, may be remembered in radically different ways by people who experienced similar events.\n\nThe selectivity may also serve a political purpose, for example to justify the claims of one group over a competing group. Cyprus is a poignant case for this phenomenon. The longstanding conflict on the island reflects deep roots in the \"motherlands\" of the Greek Cypriot and Turkish Cypriot peoples.\n\nLauren A. Rivera (Harvard University) studies how states \"manage reputation-damaging\" events \"on a global stage\". Rivera decided to conduct a study on the state of Croatia in order to determine how the government represented its country to international audiences following the wars of Yugoslavian secession. She hypothesized that the main catalyst for this change in international opinion was due to cultural reframing. This empirical study included textual analyses of travel brochures printed by the Croatian government (study 1), interviews with 34 tourism professionals from the Croatian government (study 2), and observations of popular attractions during the peak of Croatia's tourism season (study 3). Study 1 and study 3 came to the conclusion that the nation's new cultural identity draws parallels with western societies while creating \"strong symbolic boundaries between Croatia and its Eastern neighbors\" (Rivera). Tourism professionals explain this shift in culture as an attempt to make the country of Croatia seem like a more stable place for Western investment and travel (study 2).\n\nIn Germany, Politics of memory (\"Geschichtspolitik\") is most often associated with how to memorise the national socialist era and World War II. Often different events of this era have been measured against one another and, in this way, evaluated, e.g. the Holocaust, the war against Eastern Europe with its ethnic cleansing programs, but also the bombings of city's by German and Allied forces alike or the expulsion of Germans from Eastern Europe. \n\nSpeeches by politicians often deal with issues of how to memorise the past. Richard von Weizsäcker as Bundespräsident identified two modes of memorising the unconditional surrender of Nazi Germany in 1945 in his famous 1985 speech: this date can be seen as defeat or liberation. Weizsäcker backed the latter Interpretation. In this regard, such moments as the first official \"Day of Commemoration for Victims of National Socialism\", on January 20, 1996, led to Bundespräsident Roman Herzog remarking in his address to the German Parliament that \"Remembrance gives us strength, since it helps to keep us from going astray.\" In similar, but somewhat opposing measure, Gerhard Schröder sought to move beyond this in saying the generation that committed such deeds has passed, and a new generation does not have the same fault because they simply weren't there to be responsible. \n\nGood examples for politics of memory could be seen in national monuments and the discourses surrounding their construction. The construction of a holocaust memorial in memory of the murdered Jews of Europe at a central location in Berlin was met with protests but also with strong support. Likewise the National Memorial to the Victims of War and Tyranny was deemed inappropriate by some onlookers and a discussion revolved around the question whether the lack of a differentiation between victims and perpetrators is adequate or not.\n\nThe question if and how to memorise Germans expelled from Poland in the aftermath of World War II has been constantly debated in both West Germany and Poland. Such questions are so difficult because it requires a moral judgement of these events. These judgements differ remarkably. For instance, the Federation of German Expellees called on Poland to pay compensation for lost property to Germans from what after 1945 became Polish territory, a claim that is consistently declined by Poland. \n\nSimilarly there have been debates in Germany whether the legacy of World War II implies that Germany's military should be confined to purely defensive measure like peacekeeping or, contrary to this, this legacy can be a justification of an active enforcement of human rights which also might involve preemptive strikes.\n\nAlthough this has not received considerably coverage, there have been studies to saying that the Soviet Bloc's repressions and the consequent \"traumatic repercussions\" deserve the same mention as that of post-World War II, which has been insititutionalized.\n\nMemorials keep alive the memories of conflict, as with the removals of memorials, often for political purposes, such as in Lithuania's removal of Soviet era statue from the city centre of the capital to a cemetery that evoked an adverse reaction from Russia.\n\nSimilarly, the commemorations of wars are held in places like Bosnia, which hosted a concert on the 20th anniversary of the Bosnian war.\n\nWhile the German example's moral relativism has led to a lesser political fascism, others have questioned whether politics of memory is a good thing. Is it that \"Those who cannot remember the past, are doomed to repeat it?\" A large body of Literature has been written with the view that it is so.\n\nLooking at truth commissions and at efforts by ravaged societies to \"come to terms\" with the past has caused various writers, human rights activists, lawyers, political theorists, psychoanalysts, journalists, historians, and philosophers to argue that \"forgetfulness equals impunity, [while] impunity is both morally outrageous and politically dangerous.\" It was also argued that forgetfulness is bad, however, it is still different from proving that memory is good. It was said that memory, like everything else, could be clumsily or unintelligently used, or even used for false purposes or in bad faith.\n\nW. G. Sebald sees the opposite end of the conventional determination in showing that German amnesia surrounding the Allied carpet bombings of 131 German cities and towns turned many German cities into vast necropolises, and resulted in an estimated 600,000 primarily civilian deaths, with millions of internal refugees. It was also said, however, that the politics of memory could contribute to the formation of strategies for achieving reconciliation in post-conflict situations. It can be used by activists, equity workers, policy analysts and academics to address existing paradigms in order to achieve some semblance of justice and reconciliation in the aftermath of deep internal conflict.\n\nMilan Kundera's opening story in the \"Book of Laughter and Forgetting\" is about a Czech official posing with other officials for a photograph in winter. The man gives his fur hat to cover his superior's bald head and the photo is taken. Later, when he falls out of favour and is denounced and removed from official records and documents, he is even air-brushed out of photographs; all that remains of him is his fur hat.\n\nWinston Churchill is purported to have said that \"history is written by the victors.\" The accuracy and significance of this statement is still debated.\n\nRaul Hilberg's autobiography is titled \"The politics of memory\".\n\n"}
{"id": "993543", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=993543", "title": "Popular Unity Party (Iraq)", "text": "Popular Unity Party (Iraq)\n\nThe Popular Unity Party is a political party in Iraq led by Youssif Hamdan. Initially set-up as Communist Party of Iraq (CPI) in 1995. The CPI split away from the Iraqi Communist Party during the latter period of Saddam Hussein's regime. Many saw the CPI as a puppet party of the regime, whose existence would give the outside world an impression that the country was a multi-party state. The party met with foreign delegations visiting Iraq. It seemed the intentions of the party would've been to join the government as a junior partner within the National Progressive Front, similar to the coalition of the same name set-up in neighbouring Syria, but the idea was later discarded. The CPI was never given possibility to register as a legal party, though its leader was in the Iraqi parliament as of 2001.\n\nFollowing the fall of the Saddam's regime in 2003, the party was reconstructed as the Popular Unity Party.\n"}
{"id": "3160311", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3160311", "title": "Por Macau", "text": "Por Macau\n\nPor Macau () is a political party in Macau, China. In the Legislative Council election in 2005, it had 892 votes (0.71% of popular vote) and no seats.\n\n"}
{"id": "7057945", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7057945", "title": "Positive deviance", "text": "Positive deviance\n\nPositive deviance (PD) is an approach to behavioral and social change based on the observation that in any community there are people whose uncommon but successful behaviors or strategies enable them to find better solutions to a problem than their peers, despite facing similar challenges and having no extra resources or knowledge than their peers. These individuals are referred to as positive deviants.\n\nThe concept first appeared in nutrition research in the 1970s. Researchers observed that despite the poverty in a community, some poor families had well nourished children. Some suggested using information gathered from these outliers to plan nutrition programs.\n\nPositive deviance is a strength-based approach which is applied to problems requiring behavior and social change. It is based on the following principles:\n\nThe PD approach was first operationalized and applied in programming in the field by Jerry and Monique Sternin through their work with Save the Children in Vietnam in the 1990s (Tuhus-Dubrow, Sternin, Sternin & Pascale).\n\nAt the start of the pilot 64% of children weighed in the pilot villages were malnourished. Through a PD inquiry, the villagers found poor peers in the community that through their uncommon but successful strategies, had well-nourished children. These families collected foods typically considered inappropriate for children (sweet potato greens, shrimp, and crabs), washed their children's hands before meals, and actively fed them three to four times a day instead of the typical two meals a day provided to children.\n\nWithout knowing it, PDs had incorporated foods already found in their community that provided important nutrients: protein, iron, and calcium. A nutrition program based on these insights was created. Instead of simply telling participants what to do differently, they designed the program to help them act their way into a new way of thinking. To attend a feeding session, parents were required to bring one of the newly identified foods. They brought their children and while sharing nutritious meals, learned to cook the new foods.\n\nAt the end of the two year pilot, malnutrition fell by 85%. Results were sustained, and transferred to the younger siblings of participants.\n\nThis approach to programming was different in important ways. Based on a community's own assets, the positive deviance approach operates within the specific cultural context of a given community (village, business, schools, ministry, department, hospital) and is therefore always appropriate. It provides to community members the \"social proof\" that an uncommon behavior can be adopted by all because it is already practiced by a few within the community. The solutions come from the community, therefore avoid the \"immune response\" that can occur when outside experts enter a community with best practices that are often unsuccessful in promoting sustained change. (Sternin)\n\nSince it was first applied in Vietnam, PD has been used to inform nutrition programs in over 40 countries by USAID, World Vision, Mercy Corps, Save the Children, CARE, Plan International, Indonesian Ministry of Health, Peace Corps, Food for the Hungry, among others.\n\nA positive deviance approach may follow a series of steps.\n\nA PD inquiry begins with an invitation from a community that wishes to address an important problem they face. This is an important first step of community ownership of a process that they will lead.\n\nThis process occurs with the community at the center of defining the problem for themselves. This will often lead to a problem definition that differs from the outside \"expert\" opinion of the situation. \nA quantitative baseline is established by the community. This baseline provides an opportunity for the community to reflect on the problem given the evidence at hand, and also measure the progress toward their goals.\nThis is also the beginning of the process to identify stakeholder and decision-makers regarding the issue at hand. Additional stakeholders and decision-makers will be pulled in throughout the process as they are identified.\n\nThrough the use of data and observation, the community establishes that there are Positive Deviants in their midst.\n\nThis is the Positive Deviance Inquiry. The community, having identified positive deviants, sets out to find the behaviors, attitudes, or beliefs that allow the PD to be successful. The focus is on the successful strategies of the PD, not on making a hero of the person using the strategy. This self-discovery of people/groups just like them who have found successful solutions provide \"social proof\" that this problem can be overcome now, without outside resources.\n\nNow that the community has identified successful strategies, they decide what strategies they would like to adopt, and design activities to help others access and practice these uncommon and other beneficial. Program design is not focused on spreading \"best practices\" but helping community members \"act their way into a new way of thinking\" through hands-on activities.\n\nPD-informed projects are monitored their programs and evaluated through a participatory process. As the monitoring will be decided on and performed by the community, the tools they create will be appropriate to the setting. This can allow even illiterate community members to participate through pictorial monitoring forms or other appropriate tools.\nEvaluation allows the community to see the progress they are making towards their goals and reinforces the changes they are making in behaviors, attitudes, and beliefs.\n\nThe scaling up of a PD project may happen through many mechanisms: the \"ripple effect\" of other communities observing the success and engaging in a PD project of their own, through the coordination of NGOs, or organizational development consultants. However the project is scaled up, the process of community discovery of PDs in their midst remains vital to the acceptance of new behaviors, attitudes, and knowledge.\n\nThe PD approach has been applied in hospitals in the United States, Brazil, Canada, Mexico, Colombia, and England to stop the spread of hospital acquired infections such as c-diff and Methicillin-resistant \"Staphylococcus aureus\" (MRSA). The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) evaluated pilot programs in the U.S. and found units using the approach decreased their infections by 30-73%.\n\nAdditionally, it has been used in health care setting increase the incidence of hand washing, and improving care for patients immediately after a heart attack.\n\nTermed \"Bright Spotting\", instead of positive deviance, the primary care pilot initiative first took place in rural New Hampshire and is still ongoing. The outpatient clinic identified a complex patient population, from the clinics perspective, studied the risk factors of that population, then identified measures that would signify that a patient has become healthy and sustained health. Once these measures were identified, using both data and the practices knowledge of patient's, \"Bright Spots\" were identified as those that meet both criteria of high risk and achieved health Finding positive deviant patients through predictive analytics has also be suggested as a possible tool in discovery. Once these patients were identified the care team performed qualitative research to discover their patterns of behavior. The results were then shown to the bright spots and their families who then designed a peer learning experience with the results in mind. The community meetings were then facilitated using both positive deviance facilitation techniques as well as applying the \"Citizen Health Care Model\" which is very similar to positive deviance approaches.\n\nA PD project helped prisoners in a New South Wales prison stop smoking. Projects in Burkino Faso, Guatemala, Ivory Coast, and Rwanda addressed reproductive health in adolescents. PD maternal and newborn health projects in Myanmar, Pakistan, Egypt, and India have improved women's access to prenatal care, delivery preparation, and antenatal care for mothers and babies.\n\nPD projects to prevent the spread of HIV/AIDS took place in 2002 with motorbike taxi drivers in Vietnam and in 2004 with sex workers in Indonesia. A PD project to enhance psychological resilience amongst adolescents vulnerable to depression and anxiety was implemented in the Netherlands.\n\nA five-year PD project starting in 2003 to prevent girl trafficking in Indonesia with Save the Children and a local Indonesian NGO, helped them find viable economic options to stay in their communities.\n\nA PD project to stop Female Genital Mutilation/Cutting in Egypt began in 1998 with CEDPA (Center for Development and Population Activities), COST (Coptic Organization for Services and Training), Caritas in Minya, Community Development Agency (CDA), Monshaat Nasser in Beni Suef governorate, and the Center for Women's Legal Assistance (CEWLA). Efforts have already shown a reduction in the practice.\n\nIn Uganda, a project with the Oak Foundation and Save the Children helped girls who were child soldiers with the Lords Resistance Army in Sudan reintegrate into their communities.\n\nPD projects in New Jersey, California, Argentina, Ethiopia, and Burkina Faso have addressed drop out rates and keeping girls in school.\n\nProponents of PD within management science argue that in any population, even in such seemingly mundane groups as service personnel in a fast food environment, the positive deviants have attitudes, cognitive processes and behavioral patterns that lead to significantly improved performance in key metrics such as speed-of-service and profitability. Studies claim that widespread adoption of the positive deviant approaches consistently leads to significant performance improvement.\n\nPD had been significantly extended to the private sector, by William Seidman and Michael McCauley. Their extensions include methodologies and technologies for:\n\nPositive deviance was further extended to groups or organizations by Gary Hamel. Hamel looks to Positive Deviant companies to set the example for \"management innovation.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37371670", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37371670", "title": "Premio Testimone di Pace", "text": "Premio Testimone di Pace\n\nThe Premio Testimone di Pace (Peace's Witness Award) is awarded every year in the Piedmont town of Ovada to a person, organization or association that is particularly distinguished for their commitment and action in the context of peace and nonviolence. The announcement of winners is on September 11 of each year and the awards ceremony is on October 4, the National Day of Peace.\n\nThe award has had the patronage of the president of the Italian Republic since its first edition, the Premio Testimone di Pace has been awarded the prestigious membership of the president of the Italian Republic accompanied by special presidential medal. It has also received the support of Genoa City of Rights.\n\nThe international scope of the award has grown from year to year, confirming in 2011 with the award of the prize to a Chechen exile, Shachman Akbulatov, who in 2008 was appointed director of the Memorial (association) of Grozny, and that hard work brought forth a complaint of abuse and oppression in Chechnya, where were killed in the same years, some journalists and human rights activists, including journalist Anna Politkovskaya and the freelance journalist Italian Antonio Russo (formerly Witness of Peace, 2006).\n\nThe award consists of a work of art and a sum of money and is attributed by a jury. The jury is composed of personalities with significant associations with peace, and the academic and communication fields.\n\nThe award also includes two special sections devoted to information and schools.\n\n\"Information\" section\nThe award will be conferred on an operator or body of information (journalist, photojournalist, periodic NetMagazine etc..) who creates a service on initiative or positive event in the context of peace and nonviolence. The award is a work of art.\n\n\"School\" section\nThe award is aimed at students of the Secondary School second grade. According to the Prize Regulations classes or groups of students entered the competition can choose between two types of work: \n\nThe jury of the dissecting school is composed of the organizers of the award and integrated components indicated from Fahrenheit Rai Radio 3, Article 21 and the University of Eastern Piedmont.\n\nMoreover, in four editions of the prize was awarded a special prize dedicated to Rachel Corrie U.S. activist killed in Gaza during the Intifada Al Aqsa March 16, 2003 and which is dedicated Center Peace Rachel Corrie Ovada\n\n\n\nShown below are the messages sent by the President of the Italian Republic Giorgio Napolitano on the occasion of the award \"Witness for Peace\"\n\n-The President of the Republic Giorgio Napolitano, on the occasion of today's event \"Witnesses of peace\", dedicated to the fallen Italian media workers fulfilling their work in war zones, promoted by the Municipality of Ovada, sent to Mayor Andrea Luigi Oddone a message in which it is stressed that the event is also \"an opportunity to remember the role played, with courage and determination, by journalists like Enzo Baldoni, Raffaele Ciriello, Maria Grazia Cutuli and Anthony Russo, who have staked their lives information for careful and aware, in the service of truth and justice. \"Rome, 11 September 2006\n\n-The President of the Republic Giorgio Napolitano, on the occasion of the award \"Witness for Peace\", sent to the Mayor of Ovada, Luigi Andrea Oddone, a message of appreciation for the initiative, which celebrates its second edition in one day by special significance: \"The anniversary of September 11 will remember that pain and suffering can lead to heinous acts of terrorism, hate and contempt for human life and honor those around the world who are opposed to the logic of war and destruction, indicating the way of peace, security and coexistence, especially the younger generations. \" Rome, 11 September 2007\n\nSource Edition 2011 \"Alexandria News\"]\n\n"}
{"id": "397917", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=397917", "title": "Propaganda model", "text": "Propaganda model\n\nThe propaganda model is a conceptual model in political economy advanced by Edward S. Herman and Noam Chomsky to explain how propaganda and systemic biases function in corporate mass media. The model seeks to explain how populations are manipulated and how consent for economic, social, and political policies is \"manufactured\" in the public mind due to this propaganda. The theory posits that the way in which corporate media is structured (e.g. through advertising, concentration of media ownership, government sourcing) creates an inherent conflict of interest that acts as propaganda for undemocratic forces.\n\nFirst presented in their 1988 book \"\", the propaganda model views private media as businesses interested in the sale of a product—readers and audiences—to other businesses (advertisers) rather than that of quality news to the public. Describing the media's \"societal purpose\", Chomsky writes, \"... the study of institutions and how they function must be scrupulously ignored, apart from fringe elements or a relatively obscure scholarly literature\". The theory postulates five general classes of \"filters\" that determine the type of news that is presented in news media. These five classes are: Ownership of the medium, Medium's funding sources, Sourcing, Flak, and Anti-communism or \"fear ideology\".\n\nThe first three are generally regarded by the authors as being the most important. In versions published after the 9/11 attacks on the United States in 2001, Chomsky and Herman updated the fifth prong to instead refer to the \"War on Terror\" and \"counter-terrorism\", although they state that it operates in much the same manner.\n\nAlthough the model was based mainly on the characterization of United States media, Chomsky and Herman believe the theory is equally applicable to any country that shares the basic economic structure and organizing principles that the model postulates as the cause of media biases.\n\nThe size and profit-seeking imperative of dominant media corporations create a bias. The authors point to how in the early nineteenth century, a radical British press had emerged that addressed the concerns of workers, but excessive stamp duties, designed to restrict newspaper ownership to the 'respectable' wealthy, began to change the face of the press. Nevertheless, there remained a degree of diversity. In post World War II Britain, radical or worker-friendly newspapers such as the \"Daily Herald\", \"News Chronicle\", \"Sunday Citizen\" (all since failed or absorbed into other publications), and the \"Daily Mirror\" (at least until the late 1970s) regularly published articles questioning the capitalist system. The authors posit that these earlier radical papers were not constrained by corporate ownership and therefore, were free to criticize the capitalist system.\n\nHerman and Chomsky argue that since mainstream media outlets are currently either large corporations or part of conglomerates (e.g. Westinghouse or General Electric), the information presented to the public will be biased with respect to these interests. Such conglomerates frequently extend beyond traditional media fields and thus have extensive financial interests that may be endangered when certain information is publicized. According to this reasoning, news items that most endanger the corporate financial interests of those who own the media will face the greatest bias and censorship.\n\nIt then follows that if to maximize profit means sacrificing news objectivity, then the news sources that ultimately survive must be fundamentally biased, with regard to news in which they have a conflict of interest.\n\nThe second filter of the propaganda model is funding generated through advertising. Most newspapers have to attract advertising in order to cover the costs of production; without it, they would have to increase the price of their newspaper. There is fierce competition throughout the media to attract advertisers; a newspaper which gets less advertising than its competitors is at a serious disadvantage. Lack of success in raising advertising revenue was another factor in the demise of the 'people's newspapers' of the nineteenth and twentieth centuries.\n\nThe product is composed of the affluent readers who buy the newspaper—who also comprise the educated decision-making sector of the population—while the actual clientele served by the newspaper includes the businesses that pay to advertise their goods. According to this filter, the news is \"filler\" to get privileged readers to see the advertisements which makes up the content and will thus take whatever form is most conducive to attracting educated decision-makers. Stories that conflict with their \"buying mood\", it is argued, will tend to be marginalized or excluded, along with information that presents a picture of the world that collides with advertisers' interests. The theory argues that the people buying the newspaper are the product which is sold to the businesses that buy advertising space; the news has only a marginal role as the product.\n\nThe third of Herman and Chomsky's five filters relates to the sourcing of mass media news: \"The mass media are drawn into a symbiotic relationship with powerful sources of information by economic necessity and reciprocity of interest.\" Even large media corporations such as the BBC cannot afford to place reporters everywhere. They concentrate their resources where news stories are likely to happen: the White House, the Pentagon, 10 Downing Street and other central news \"terminals\". Although British newspapers may occasionally complain about the \"spin-doctoring\" of New Labour, for example, they are dependent upon the pronouncements of \"the Prime Minister's personal spokesperson\" for government news. Business corporations and trade organizations are also trusted sources of stories considered newsworthy. Editors and journalists who offend these powerful news sources, perhaps by questioning the veracity or bias of the furnished material, can be threatened with the denial of access to their media life-blood - fresh news. Thus, the media has become reluctant to run articles that will harm corporate interests that provide them with the resources that they depend upon.\n\nThis relationship also gives rise to a \"moral division of labor\", in which \"officials have and give the facts\" and \"reporters merely get them\". Journalists are then supposed to adopt an uncritical attitude that makes it possible for them to accept corporate values without experiencing cognitive dissonance.\n\nThe fourth filter is 'flak' (not to be confused with flack which means promoters or publicity agents), described by Herman and Chomsky as 'negative responses to a media statement or [TV or radio] program. It may take the form of letters, telegrams, phone calls, petitions, lawsuits, speeches and Bills before Congress and other modes of complaint, threat and punitive action'. Business organizations regularly come together to form flak machines. An example is the US-based Global Climate Coalition (GCC), comprising fossil fuel and automobile companies such as Exxon, Texaco and Ford. The GCC was started up by Burson-Marsteller, one of the world's largest public relations companies, to attack the credibility of climate scientists and 'scare stories' about global warming.\n\nFor Chomsky and Herman \"flak\" refers to negative responses to a media statement or program. The term \"flak\" has been used to describe what Chomsky and Herman see as efforts to discredit organizations or individuals who disagree with or cast doubt on the prevailing assumptions which Chomsky and Herman view as favorable to established power (e.g., \"The Establishment\"). Unlike the first three \"filtering\" mechanisms—which are derived from analysis of market mechanisms—flak is characterized by concerted efforts to manage public information.\n\nThe fifth and final news filter that Herman and Chomsky identified was 'anti-communism'. \"Manufacturing Consent\" was written during the Cold War. Chomsky updated the model as \"fear\", often as 'the enemy' or an 'evil dictator' such as Colonel Gaddafi, Paul Biya, Saddam Hussein or Slobodan Milosevic. This is exemplified in British tabloid headlines of 'Smash Saddam!' and 'Clobba Slobba!'. The same is said to extend to mainstream reporting of environmentalists as 'eco-terrorists'. \"The Sunday Times\" ran a series of articles in 1999 accusing activists from the non-violent direct action group Reclaim The Streets of stocking up on CS gas and stun guns.\n\nAnti-ideologies exploit public fear and hatred of groups that pose a potential threat, either real, exaggerated or imagined. Communism once posed the primary threat according to the model. Communism and socialism were portrayed by their detractors as endangering freedoms of speech, movement, the press and so forth. They argue that such a portrayal was often used as a means to silence voices critical of elite interests. Chomsky argues that since the end of the Cold War (1991), anticommunism was replaced by the \"War on Terror\", as the major social control mechanism. Following the events of September 11, 2001, some scholars agree that Islamophobia is replacing anti-communism as a new source of public fear.\n\nFollowing the theoretical exposition of the propaganda model, \"Manufacturing Consent\" contains a large section where the authors seek to test their hypotheses. If the propaganda model is right and the filters do influence media content, a particular form of bias would be expected—one that systematically favors corporate interests.\n\nThey also looked at what they perceived as naturally occurring \"historical control groups\" where two events, similar in their properties but differing in the expected media attitude towards them, are contrasted using objective measures such as coverage of key events (measured in column inches) or editorials favoring a particular issue (measured in number).\n\nExamples of bias given by the authors include the failure of the media to question the legality of the Vietnam War while greatly emphasizing the Soviet–Afghan War as an act of aggression.\n\nOther biases include a propensity to emphasize violent acts such as genocide more in enemy or unfriendly countries such as Kosovo while ignoring greater genocide in allied countries such as the Indonesian occupation of East Timor. This bias is also said to exist in foreign elections, giving favorable media coverage to fraudulent elections in allied countries such as El Salvador and Guatemala, while unfavorable coverage is given to legitimate elections in enemy countries such as Nicaragua.\n\nChomsky also asserts that the media accurately covered events such as the Battle of Fallujah but because of an ideological bias, it acted as pro-government propaganda. In describing coverage of raid on Fallujah General Hospital he stated that \"The New York Times\", \"accurately recorded the battle of Fallujah but it was celebrated... it was a celebration of ongoing war crimes\". The article in question was \"Early Target of Offensive Is a Hospital\".\n\nThe authors point to biases that are based on only reporting scandals which benefit a section of power, while ignoring scandals that hurt the powerless. The biggest example of this was how the US media greatly covered the Watergate Scandal but ignored the COINTELPRO exposures. While the Watergate break-in was a political threat to powerful people (Democrats), COINTELPRO harmed average citizens and went as far as political assassination. Other examples include coverage of the Iran–Contra affair by only focusing on people in power such as Oliver North but omitting coverage of the civilians killed in Nicaragua as the result of aid to the contras.\n\nIn a 2010 interview, Chomsky compared media coverage of the Afghan War Diaries released by WikiLeaks and lack of media coverage to a study of severe health problems in Fallujah. While there was ample coverage of WikiLeaks there was no American coverage of the Fallujah study, in which the health situation in Fallujah was described by the British media as \"worse than Hiroshima\".\n\nSince the publication of \"Manufacturing Consent\", Herman and Chomsky have adopted the theory and have given it a prominent role in their writings, lectures and theoretical frameworks. Chomsky has made extensive use of its explanative power to lend support to his interpretations of mainstream media attitudes towards a wide array of events, including the following:\n\nOn the rare occasions the propaganda model is discussed in the mainstream media there is usually a large reaction. In 1988, when Chomsky was interviewed by Bill Moyers there were 1,000 letters in response, one of the biggest written reactions in the show's history. When he was interviewed by TV Ontario, the show generated 31,321 call-ins, which was a new record for the station.\nIn 1996, when Chomsky was interviewed by Andrew Marr the producer commented that the response was \"astonishing\". He commented that \"[t]he audience reaction was astonishing... I have never worked on a programme which elicited so many letters and calls\".\n\nIn May 2007, Chomsky and Herman spoke at the University of Windsor in Canada summarizing developments and responding to criticisms related to the model. Both authors stated they felt the propaganda model is still applicable (Herman said even more so than when it was introduced), although they did suggest a few areas where they believe it falls short and needs to be extended in light of recent developments.\n\nChomsky has insisted that while the propaganda role of the media \"is intensified by ownership and advertising\" the problem mostly lies with \"ideological-doctrinal commitments that are part of intellectual life\" or intellectual culture of the people in power. He compares the media to scholarly literature which he says has the same problems even without the constraints of the propaganda model.\n\nAt the Windsor talk, Chomsky pointed out that Edward S. Herman was primarily responsible for creating the theory although Chomsky supported it. According to Chomsky, he insisted Herman's name appear first on the cover of \"Manufacturing Consent\" because of his primary role researching and developing the theory.\n\nWith the emergence of the Internet as a cheap and potentially wide-ranging means of communication, a number of independent websites have surfaced which adopt the propaganda model to subject media to close scrutiny. Examples of these are, Free Press and FAIR.\n\nIn April 2010, a study conducted by the Harvard Kennedy School showed that media outlets such as \"The New York Times\" and \"Los Angeles Times\" stopped using the term \"torture\" for waterboarding when the US government committed it, from 2002 to 2008. It also noted that the press was \"much more likely to call waterboarding torture if a country other than the United States is the perpetrator.\"\nThe study was similar to media studies done in \"Manufacturing Consent\" for topics such as comparing how the term \"genocide\" is used in the media when referring to allied and enemy countries.\n\nGlenn Greenwald in response said that \"We don’t need a state-run media because our media outlets volunteer for the task...\" and commented that the media often act as propaganda for the government without coercion.\n\nChomsky has commented in the \"ChomskyChat Forum\" on the applicability of the Propaganda Model to the media environment of other countries: \nThat's only rarely been done in any systematic way. There is work on the British media, by a good U[niversity] of Glasgow media group. And interesting work on British Central America coverage by Mark Curtis in his book \"Ambiguities of Power\". There is work on France, done in Belgium mostly, also a recent book by Serge Halimi (editor of \"Le Monde diplomatique\"). There is one very careful study by a Dutch graduate student, applying the methods Ed Herman used in studying US media reaction to elections (El Salvador, Nicaragua) to 14 major European newspapers. ... Interesting results. Discussed a bit (along with some others) in a footnote in chapter 5 of my book \"Deterring Democracy,\" if you happen to have that around.\nFor more than a decade, a British-based website Media Lens has examined their domestic broadcasters and liberal press. Its criticisms are featured in the books \"Guardians of Power\" (2006) and \"Newspeak in the 21st Century\" (2009).\n\nStudies have also expanded the propaganda model to examine news media in the People's Republic of China and for film production in Hollywood.\n\nIn July 2011, the journalist Paul Mason, then working for the BBC, pointed out that the News International phone hacking scandal threw light on close links between the press and politicians. However, he argued that the closure of the mass-circulation newspaper \"News of the World\", which took place after the scandal broke, conformed only partly to the propaganda model. He drew attention to the role of social media, saying that \"large corporations pulled their advertising\" because of the \"scale of the social media response\" (a response which was mainly to do with the Milly Dowler revelations, although Mason does not go into this level of detail).\n\nMason praised \"The Guardian\" for having told the truth about the phone-hacking, but expressed doubt about the viability of the newspaper.\nOne part of the Chomsky doctrine has been proven by exception. He stated that newspapers that told the truth could not make money. \"The Guardian\"...is indeed burning money and may run out of it in three years' time.\n\nEli Lehrer of the American Enterprise Institute criticized the theory in \"The Anti-Chomsky Reader\". According to Lehrer, the fact that papers like \"The New York Times\" and \"The Wall Street Journal\" have disagreements is evidence that the media is not a monolithic entity. Lehrer also believes that the media cannot have a corporate bias because it reports on and exposes corporate corruption. Lehrer asserts that the model amounts to a Marxist conception of right-wing false consciousness.\n\nHerman and Chomsky have said that the media \"is not a solid monolith\" but that it represents a debate between powerful interests while ignoring perspectives that challenge the \"fundamental premises\" of all these interests. For instance, during the Vietnam War there was disagreement among the media over tactics, but the broader issue of the legality and legitimacy of the war was ignored (see Coverage of \"enemy\" countries). Additionally, Chomsky has said that while the media are against corruption, they are not against society legally empowering corporate interests which is a reflection of the powerful interests that the model would predict. The authors have also said that the model does not seek to address \"the effects of the media on the public\" which might be ineffective at shaping public opinion. Edward Herman has said \"critics failed to comprehend that the propaganda model is about how the media work, not how effective they are\".\n\nGareth Morley argues in an article in \"Inroads: A Journal of Opinion\" that widespread coverage of Israeli mistreatment of protesters as compared with little coverage of similar (or much worse) events in sub-Saharan Africa is poorly explained. Chomsky responded that when testing a model, examples should be carefully paired to control reasons for discrepancies not related to political bias. For instance, general coverage of the two areas compared should be similar. In this case, according to Chomsky, they are not: news from Israel (in any form) is far more common than news from sub-Saharan Africa.\n\nWriting for \"The New York Times\", the historian Walter LaFeber criticized the book \"Manufacturing Consent\" for overstating its case, in particular with regards to reporting on Nicaragua and not adequately explaining how a powerful propaganda system would let military aid to the Contra rebels be blocked. Herman responded in a letter by stating that the system was not \"all powerful\" and that LaFeber did not address their main point regarding Nicaragua. LaFeber replied that:\nMr. Herman wants to have it both ways: to claim that leading American journals \"mobilize bias\" but object when I cite crucial examples that weaken the book's thesis. If the news media are so unqualifiedly bad, the book should at least explain why so many publications (including my own) can cite their stories to attack President Reagan's Central American policy.\n\nChomsky responds to LaFeber's reply in \"Necessary Illusions\":\nWhat is more, a propaganda model is not weakened by the discovery that with careful and critical reading, material could be unearthed in the media that could be used by those that objected to \"President Reagan's Central American policy\" on grounds of principle, opposing not its failures but its successes: the near destruction of Nicaragua and the blunting of the popular forces that threatened to bring democracy and social reform to El Salvador, among other achievements.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28433569", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28433569", "title": "Reducing emissions from deforestation and forest degradation", "text": "Reducing emissions from deforestation and forest degradation\n\nReducing emissions from deforestation and forest degradation and the role of conservation, sustainable management of forests and enhancement of forest carbon stocks in developing countries (REDD+) was first negotiated under the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) in 2005, with the objective of mitigating climate change through reducing net emissions of greenhouse gases through enhanced forest management in developing countries. Most of the key REDD+ decisions were completed by 2013, with the final pieces of the rulebook finished in 2015.\n\nIn the last two decades, various studies estimate that land use change, including deforestation and forest degradation, accounts for 12-29% of global greenhouse gas emissions. For this reason the inclusion of reducing emissions from land use change is considered essential to achieve the objectives of the UNFCCC.\n\nDuring the negotiations for the Kyoto Protocol, and then in particular its Clean Development Mechanism (CDM), the inclusion of tropical forest management was debated but eventually dropped due to anticipated methodological difficulties in establishing – in particular – additionality and leakage (detrimental effects outside of the project area attributable to project activities). What remained on forestry was \"Afforestation and Reforestation\", sectoral scope 14 of the CDM. Under this sectoral scope areas of land that had no forest cover since 1990 could be replanted with commercial or indigenous tree species. In its first eight years of operation 52 projects had been registered under the \"Afforestation and Reforestation\" scope of the CDM. The cumbersome administrative procedures and corresponding high transaction costs are often blamed for this slow uptake. Beyond the CDM, all developed countries that were parties to the Kyoto Protocol also committed to measuring and reporting on efforts to reduce net greenhouse gas emissions from forests. The United States also measures and reports on the net greenhouse gas sequestration in its forests.\n\nIn response to what many perceived to be a failure to address a major source of global greenhouse gas emissions, the Coalition for Rainforest Nations (CfRN) was established and in 2005 they proposed to the Conference of the Parties to the UNFCCC policy approaches and positive incentives for the reduction of emissions of greenhouse gases stemming from tropical deforestation and forest degradation as a climate change mitigation measure.\n\nREDD was first discussed in 2005 by the UNFCCC at its 11th session of the Conference of the Parties to the Convention (COP) at the request of Costa Rica and Papua New Guinea, on behalf of the Coalition for Rainforest Nations, when they submitted the document \"Reducing Emissions from Deforestation in Developing Countries: Approaches to Stimulate Action\", with a request to create an agenda item to discuss consideration of reducing emissions from deforestation and forest degradation in natural forests as a mitigation measure. COP 11 entered the request to consider the document as agenda item 6: \"Reducing emissions from deforestation in developing countries: approaches to stimulate action\".\n\nREDD received substantial attention from the UNFCCC – and the attending community – at COP 13, December 2007, where the first substantial decision on REDD+ was adopted, Decision 2/CP.13: \"Reducing emissions from deforestation in developing countries: approaches to stimulate action\", calling for demonstration activities to be reported upon two years later and assessment of drivers of deforestation. REDD+ was also referenced in decision 1/CP.13, the \"Bali Action Plan\", with reference to all five eligible activities for REDD+ (with sustainable management of forests, conservation of forest carbon stocks and enhancement of forest carbon stocks constituting the \"+\" in REDD+).\n\nThe call for demonstration activities in decision 2/CP.13 led to a very large number of programmes and projects, including the Forest Carbon Partnership Facility (FCPF) of the World Bank, the UN-REDD Programme, and a flurry of smaller projects financed by the Norwegian International Climate and Forest Initiative (NICFI), the United States, the United Kingdom, and Germany, among many others. All of these were based on substantive guidance from the UNFCCC.\n\nIn 2009 at COP 15, decision 4/CP.15: \"Methodological guidance for activities relating to reducing emissions from deforestation and forest degradation and the role of conservation, sustainable management of forests and enhancement of forest carbon stocks in developing countries\" provided more substantive information on requirements for REDD+. Specifically, the national forest monitoring system was introduced, with elements of measurement, reporting and verification (MRV). Furthermore, countries were encouraged to develop national strategies, develop domestic capacity, establish reference levels, and establish a participatory approach with \"full and effective engagement of indigenous peoples and local communities in (…) monitoring and reporting\".\n\nA year later at COP 16 decision 1/CP.16 was adopted. In section C: \"Policy approaches and positive incentives on issues relating to reducing emissions from deforestation and forest degradation in developing countries; and the role of conservation, sustainable management of forests and enhancement of forest carbon stocks in developing countries\" environmental and social safeguards were introduced, with a reiteration of requirements for the national forest monitoring system. These safeguards were introduced to ensure that implementation of REDD+ at the national level would not lead to detrimental effects for the environment or the local population. Countries are required to provide summaries of information on how these safeguards are implemented throughout the three \"phases\" of REDD+.\n\nIn 2011 decision 12/CP.17 was adopted at COP 17: \"Guidance on systems for providing information on how safeguards are addressed and respected and modalities relating to forest reference emission levels and forest reference levels as referred to in decision 1/CP.16\". Details are provided on preparation and submission of reference levels and guidance on providing information on safeguards.\n\nIn December 2013, COP 19 produced no fewer than seven decisions on REDD+, which are jointly known as the \"Warsaw Framework on REDD-plus\". These decisions address a work programme on results-based finance; coordination of support for implementation; modalities for national forest monitoring systems; presenting information on safeguards; technical assessment of reference (emission) levels; modalities for measuring, reporting and verifying (MRV); and information on addressing the drivers of deforestation and forest degradation. Requirements to be eligible access to \"results-based finance\" have been specified: through submission of reports for which the contents have been specified; technical assessment through International Consultation and Analysis (ICA) for which procedures have been specified;. With these decisions the overall framework for REDD+ implementation appears to be complete, although many details still need to be provided.\n\nCOP 20 in December 2014 did not produce any new decisions on REDD+. A reference was made to REDD+ in decision 8/CP.20 \"Report of the Green Climate Fund to the Conference of the Parties and guidance to the Green Climate Fund\", where in paragraph 18 the COP \"\"requests\" the Board of the Green Climate Fund (...) (b) to consider decisions relevant to REDD-plus\", referring back to earlier COP decisions on REDD+.\n\nFinally, the remaining outstanding decisions on REDD+ were completed at COP21 in 2015. With the conclusion of decisions on reporting on the safeguards, non-market approaches, and non-carbon benefits, the UNFCCC rulebook on REDD+ was completed. All countries were also encouraged to implement and support REDD+in Article 5 of the Paris Agreement. This was part of a broader Article that specified that all countries should take action to protect and enhance their greenhouse gas sinks and reservoirs (stores of sequestered carbon).\n\nThe approach detailed under the UNFCCC is commonly referred to as \"reducing emissions from deforestation and forest degradation\", abbreviated as REDD+. This title and the acronyms, however, are not used by the COP itself.\n\nThe original submission by Papua New Guinea and Costa Rica, on behalf of the Coalition for Rainforest Nations, dated 28 July 2005, was entitled \"Reducing Emissions from Deforestation in Developing Countries: Approaches to Stimulate Action\", exactly as is written here. COP 11 entered the request to consider the document as agenda item 6: \"Reducing emissions from deforestation in developing countries: approaches to stimulate action\", again written here exactly as in the official text. The name for the agenda item was also used at COP 13 in Bali, December 2007. By COP 15 in Copenhagen, December 2009, the scope of the agenda item was broadened to \"Methodological guidance for activities relating to reducing emissions from deforestation and forest degradation and the role of conservation, sustainable management of forests and enhancement of forest carbon stocks in developing countries\", moving to \"Policy approaches and positive incentives on issues relating to reducing emissions from deforestation and forest degradation in developing countries; and the role of conservation, sustainable management of forests and enhancement of forest carbon stocks in developing countries\" by COP 16. At COP 17 the title of the decision simply referred back to an earlier decision: \"Guidance on systems for providing information on how safeguards are addressed and respected and modalities relating to forest reference emission levels and forest reference levels as referred to in decision 1/CP.16\". At COP 19 the titles of decisions 9 and 12 refer back to decision 1/CP.16, paragraph 70 and appendix I respectively, while the other decisions only mention the topic under consideration.\n\nNone of these decisions use an acronym for the title of the agenda item or otherwise; the ubiquitous acronym is thus not coined by the COP of the UNFCCC. Surprisingly therefore, the set of decisions on REDD+ that were adopted at COP 19 in Warsaw, December 2013, were jointly christened the Warsaw Framework on REDD-plus in a footnote to the title of each of the decisions.\n\nAll things considered, there should be no confusion on the formal name(s):\n\n\nHowever, the commonly used name outside of the UNFCCC seems to have stuck, perhaps not surprisingly seeing that the second title is quite unwieldy.\n\nAs an approach under the multi-lateral climate change agreement, REDD+ is essentially a vehicle to encourage developing countries to reduce emissions and enhance removals of greenhouse gases through a variety of forest management options, and to provide technical and financial support for these efforts. As with other approaches under the UNFCCC, there are few prescriptions that specifically mandate how to implement the mechanism at national level; the principles of national sovereignty and subsidiarity imply that the UNFCCC can only provide guidelines for implementation, and require that reports are submitted in a certain format and open for review by the Convention. There are certain aspects that go beyond this basic philosophy – such as the so-called safeguards, explained in more detail below – but in essence REDD+ is no more than a set of guidelines on how to report on forest resources and forest management strategies and their results in terms of reducing emissions and enhancing removals of greenhouse gases. However, a set of requirements has been elaborated to ensure that REDD+ programs contain key elements and that reports from Parties are consistent and comparable and that their content are open to review and in function of the objectives of the Convention.\n\nDecision 1/CP 16 requests all developing countries aiming to undertake REDD+ to develop the following elements:\n\n(a) A national strategy or action plan;\n\n(b) A national forest reference emission level and/or forest reference level or, if appropriate, as an interim measure, subnational forest reference emission levels and/or forest reference levels\n\n(c) A robust and transparent national forest monitoring system for the monitoring and reporting on REDD+ activities (see below), with, if appropriate, subnational monitoring and reporting as an interim measure\n\n(d) A system for providing information on how the social and environmental safeguards (included in an appendix to the decision) are being addressed and respected throughout the implementation of REDD+\n\nIt further requests developing countries, when developing and implementing their national REDD+ strategies or action plans, to address, among other issues, the drivers of deforestation and forest degradation, land tenure issues, forest governance issues, gender considerations and the social and environmental safeguards, ensuring the full and effective participation of relevant stakeholders, inter alia indigenous peoples and local communities;\n\nIn the text of the Convention repeated reference is made to national \"policies and measures\", the set of legal, regulatory and administrative instruments that Parties develop and implement to achieve the objective of the Convention. These policies can be specific to climate change mitigation or adaptation, or of a more generic nature but with an impact on greenhouse gas emissions. Many of the signatory parties to the UNFCCC have by now established climate change strategies and response measures.\n\nThe REDD+ approach has a similar, more focused set of policies and measures. Forest sector laws and procedures are typically in place in most countries. In addition, countries have to develop specific national strategies and/or action plans for REDD+.\n\nOf specific interest to REDD+ are the drivers of deforestation and forest degradation. The UNFCCC decisions call on countries to make an assessment of these drivers and to base the policies and measures on this assessment, such that the policies and measures can be directed to where the impact is greatest. Some of the drivers will be generic – in the sense that they are prevalent in many countries, such as increasing population pressure – while others will be very specific to countries or regions within countries.\n\nCountries are encouraged to identify \"national circumstances\" that impact the drivers: specific conditions within the country that impact the forest resources. Hints for typical national circumstances can be found in preambles to various COP decisions, such as \"\"Reaffirming\" that economic and social development and poverty eradication are global priorities\" in the Bali Action Plan, enabling developing countries to prioritize policies like poverty eradication through agricultural expansion or hydropower development over forest protection.\n\nThe decisions on REDD+ enumerate five \"eligible activities\" that developing countries may implement to reduce emissions and enhance removals of greenhouse gases:\n\nThe first two activities reduce emissions of greenhouse gases and they are the two activities listed in the original submission on REDD+ in 2005 by the Coalition for Rainforest Nations. The three remaining activities constitute the \"+\" in REDD+. The last one enhances removals of greenhouse gases, while the effect of the other two on emissions or removals is indeterminate but expected to be minimal.\n\nThe UNFCCC provides no guidance on what specific actions constitute the eligible activities. Possibly an approach will be adopted as under the CDM: project proponents – in this case Parties to the Convention – can submit documentation on an approach which will be reviewed by a technical committee of the UNFCCC. Upon approval this \"approved methodology\" will be publicly available to all for its application.\n\nReference levels are a key component for any national REDD+ program and critical in at least two aspects. Firstly, they serve as a baseline for measuring the success of REDD+ programs in reducing greenhouse gas emissions from forests. Second, they are available for examination by the international community to assess the reported emission reductions or enhanced removals. In that sense it establishes the confidence of the international community in the national REDD+ program. The results measured against these baselines may be eligible for results-based payments. Setting the reference levels too lax will erode the confidence in the national REDD+ program, while setting them too strict will erode the potential to earn the benefits with which to operate the national REDD+ program. Very careful consideration of all relevant information is therefore of crucial importance.\n\nThe requirements and characteristics of reference levels are under the purview of the UNFCCC. Given the wide variety in ecological conditions and country-specific circumstances, these requirements are rather global and every country will have a range of options in its definition of reference levels within its territory.\n\nA reference level (RL) is expressed as an amount, derived by differencing a sequence of amounts over a period of time. For REDD+ purposes the amount is expressed in CO-equivalents (COe) (see article on global warming potential) of emissions or removals per year. If the amounts are emissions, the reference level becomes a reference emission level (REL); however these RELs are seen by some as incomplete as they do not take into account removals. Reference levels are based on a scope ‒ what is included? ‒ a scale ‒ the geographical area from which it is derived or to which it is applied ‒ and a period over which the reference level is calculated. The scope, the scale and the period can be modified in reference to national circumstances: specific conditions in the country that would call for an adjustment of the basis from which the reference levels are constructed. A reference level can be based on observations or measurements of amounts in the past, in which case it is retrospective, or it can be an expectation or projection of amounts into the future, in which case it is prospective.\n\nReference levels have to eventually have national coverage, but they may be composed from a number of sub-national reference levels. As an example, forest degradation may have a reference emission level for commercial selective logging and one for extraction of minor timber and firewood for subsistence use by rural communities. Effectively, every identified driver of deforestation or forest degradation has to be represented in one or more reference emission level(s). Similarly for reference levels for enhancement of carbon stocks, there may be a reference level for plantation timber species and one for natural regeneration, possibly stratified by ecological region or forest type.\n\nDetails on the reporting and technical assessment of reference levels is given in Decision 13/CP.19.\n\nIn Decision 2/CP.15 of the UNFCCC countries are requested to develop national forest monitoring systems (NFMS) that support the functions of measurement, reporting and verification (MRV) of actions and achievements of the implementation of REDD+ activities. NFMS is the key component in the management of information for national REDD+ programs. A fully functional monitoring system can go beyond the requirements posted by the UNFCCC to include issues such as a registry of projects and participants, and evaluation of program achievements and policy effectiveness. It may be purpose-built, but it may also be integrated into existing forest monitoring tools.\n\nMeasurements are suggested to be made using a combination of remote sensing and ground-based observations. Remote sensing is particularly suited to the assessment of areas of forest and stratification of different forest types. Ground-based observations involve forest surveys to measure the carbon pools used by the IPCC, as well as other parameters of interest such as those related to safeguards and eligible activity implementation.\n\nThe reporting has to follow the guidance of the IPCC, in particular the \"Good Practice Guidance for Land use, land-use change, and forestry\", which includes reporting templates to be included in National Communications of Parties to the UNFCCC. Included in the guidance are standard measurements protocols and analysis procedures which greatly impact the measurement systems that countries need to establish. The actual reporting of REDD+ results is not going through the National Communications, however, but through the Biennial Update Reports (BURs).\n\nThe technical assessment of these results is an independent, external process that is managed by the Secretariat to the UNFCCC; countries need to facilitate the requirements of this assessment. The technical assessment is included within the broader process of International Consultation and Analysis (ICA), which is effectively a peer-review by a team composed of an expert from an Annex I Party and an expert from a non-Annex I Party which \"will be conducted in a manner that is nonintrusive, non-punitive and respectful of national sovereignty\". This \"technical team of experts shall analyse the extent to which:\n\nHowever, unlike a true verification the technical assessment cannot \"approve\" or \"reject\" the reference level, or the reported results measured against this reference level. It does provide clarity on potential areas for improvement.\n\nFinancing entities that seek to provide results-based payments (payments per tonne of mitigation achieved) typically seek a true verification of results by external experts, to provide assurance that the results for which they are paying are credible.\n\nIn response to concerns over the potential for negative consequences resulting from the implementation of REDD+ the UNFCCC established a list of safeguards that countries need to \"address and respect\" and \"promote and support\" in order to guarantee the correct and lasting generation of results from the REDD+ mechanism. These safeguards are:\n\nCountries have to regularly provide a summary of information on how these safeguards are addressed and respected. This could come in the form, for instance, of explaining the legal and regulatory environment with regards to the recognition, inclusion and engagement of Indigenous Peoples, and information on how these requirements have been implemented.\n\nDecision 12/CP.19 established that the \"summary of information\" on the safeguards will be provided in the National Communications to the UNFCCC, which for developing country Parties will be once every four years. Additionally, and on a voluntary basis, the summary of information may be posted on the UNFCCC REDD+ web platform.\n\nThe REDD+ mechanism is currently still under discussion by the UNFCCC. All pertinent issues that comprise REDD+ are exclusively those that are included in the decisions of the COP, as indicated in the above sections. There is, however, a large variety of concepts and approaches that are labelled (as being part of) REDD+ by their proponents, either being a substitute for UNFCCC decisions or complementary to those decisions. Below follows a – no doubt incomplete – list of such concepts and approaches.\n\n\nDeforestation and forest degradation account for 17-29% of global greenhouse gas emissions, the reduction of which is estimated to be one of the most cost-efficient climate change mitigation strategies. Regeneration of forest on degraded or deforested lands can remove CO₂ from the atmosphere through the build-up of biomass, making forest lands a sink of greenhouse gases. The REDD+ mechanism addresses both issues of emission reduction and enhanced removal of greenhouse gases.\n\nEmissions of greenhouse gases from forest land can be reduced by slowing down the rates of deforestation and forest degradation, obviously covered by the first two of the REDD+ \"eligible activities\". Another option would be some form of reduced impact logging in commercial logging, under the REDD+ \"eligible activity\" of sustainable management of forests.\n\nRemovals of greenhouse gases (specifically CO₂) from the atmosphere can be achieved through various forest management options, such as replanting degraded or deforested areas or enrichment planting, but also by letting forest land regenerate naturally. Care must be taken to differentiate between what is a purely ecological process of regrowth and what is induced or enhanced through some management intervention.\n\nIn 2009, at COP-15 in Copenhagen, the Copenhagen Accord was reached, noting in section 6 the recognition of the crucial role of REDD and REDD+ and the need to provide positive incentives for such actions by enabling the mobilization of financial resources from developed countries. The Accord goes on to note in section 8 that the collective commitment by developed countries for new and additional resources, including forestry and investments through international institutions, will approach USD 30 billion for the period 2010 - 2012.\n\nThe Green Climate Fund (GCF) was established at COP-17 to function as the financial mechanism for the UNFCCC, so including for REDD+ finance. The Warsaw Framework on REDD-plus makes various references to the GCF, instructing developing country Parties to apply to the GCF for \"result-based finance\". The GCF currently finances REDD+ programs in phase 1 (design of national strategies or action plans, capacity building) and phase 2 (implementation of national strategies or action plans, demonstration programs). It is currently finalizing an approach to REDD+ results-based payments.\n\nREDD+ is also eligible for inclusion under CORSIA, the International Civil Aviation Organization's market-based greenhouse gas offset mechanism <http://www.icao.int/environmental-protection/Pages/market-based-measures.aspx>.\n\nDecision 1/CP.16, paragraph 73, suggests that national capacity for implementing REDD+ is built up in phases, \"beginning with the development of national strategies or action plans, policies and measures, and capacity-building, followed by the implementation of national policies and measures and national strategies or action plans that could involve further capacity-building, technology development and transfer and results-based demonstration activities, and evolving into results-based actions that should be fully measured, reported and verified\". The initial phase of the development of national strategies and action plans and capacity building is typically referred to as the \"Readiness phase\" (a term like \"Reddiness\" is also encountered).\n\nThere is a very substantial number of REDD+ projects globally and this section lists only a selection. One of the more comprehensive online tools with up-to-date information on REDD+ projects is the Voluntary REDD+ Database.\n\nMost REDD+ activities or projects implemented since the call for demonstration activities in Decision 2/CP.13 December 2007 are focused on readiness, which is not surprising given that REDD+ and its requirements were completely new to all developing countries.\n\n\nSome countries are already implementing aspects of a national forest monitoring system and activities aimed at reducing emissions and enhancing removals that go beyond REDD+ readiness. For example, the Forest Carbon Partnership Facility has 19 countries in the pipeline of the Carbon Fund, which will provide payments to these countries based on verified REDD+ emissions reductions achieved under national or subnational programs. The first countries will begin to negotiate contracts for these payments, and begin implementation of their programs, in 2017.\n\nFollowing the Warsaw Framework on REDD-plus, the first country had submitted a Biennial Update Report with a Technical Annex containing the details on emission reductions from REDD+ eligible activities. Brazil submitted its first Biennial Update Report on 31 December 2014. The Technical Annex covers the Amazon biome within Brazil's territory, a little under half of the national territory, reporting emission reductions against Brazil's previously submitted reference emission level of 2,971.02 MtCOe from a reduction in deforestation. This Technical Annex was reviewed through the International Consultation and Analysis process and on 22 September 2015 a technical report was issued by the UNFCCC which states that \"the LULUCF experts consider that the data and information provided in the technical annex are transparent, consistent, complete and accurate\" (paragraph 38). Considering that Brazil is only reporting on emission reductions from deforestation in the Brazilian Amazon, the technical review identified several areas of improvement (paragraph 34):\n\n(a) Continuation in updating and improving the carbon density map, including through the use of improved ground data from Brazil’s first national forest inventory, possibly prioritizing geographic areas where deforestation is more likely to occur;\n\n(b) Expansion of the coverage of carbon pools, including improving the understanding of soil carbon dynamics after the conversion of forests to non-forests;\n\n(c) Consideration of the treatment of non-CO2 gases to maintain consistency with the GHG inventory;\n\n(d) Continuation of the improvements related to monitoring of forest degradation;\n\n(e) Expansion of the forest monitoring system to cover additional biomes.\n\nSeveral additional countries have followed closely behind Brazil.\n\nSince the first discussion on REDD+ in 2005 and particularly at COP-13 in 2007 and COP-15 in 2009, many concerns have been voiced on various aspects of REDD+. The COP has responded by establishing the safeguards for REDD+, although these are sometimes criticized for being too generic, non-enforceable and summary rather than a specific set of requirements for participation in the REDD+ mechanism.\n\nPrior to full-scale implementation many challenges are still to be solved. How will the REDD+ approach link to existing national development strategies? How will forest communities and indigenous peoples participate in the design, implementation, monitoring and evaluation of national REDD+ programmes? How will REDD+ be funded, and how will countries ensure that benefits are distributed equitably among all those who manage the forests? Finally, how will the amounts of reduced emissions and enhanced removals as a result of REDD+ activities be monitored?\n\n\"Safeguard (e): That actions are consistent with the conservation of natural forests and biological diversity, ensuring that the [REDD+] actions (...) are not used for the conversion of natural forests, but are instead used to incentivize the protection and conservation of natural forests and their ecosystem services, and to enhance other social and environmental benefits. Footnote to this safeguard: Taking into account the need for sustainable livelihoods of indigenous peoples and local communities and their interdependence on forests in most countries, reflected in the United Nations Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples, as well as the International Mother Earth Day.\"\n\nThe UNFCCC does not define what constitutes a forest; it only requires that Parties communicate to the UNFCCC on how they define a forest. The UNFCCC does suggest using a definition in terms of minimal area, minimal crown coverage and minimal height at maturity of perennial vegetation.\n\nWhile there is a safeguard against the conversion of natural forest, developing country Parties are free to include plantations of commercial tree species (including exotics like Eucalyptus spp., Pinus spp., Acacia spp.), agricultural tree crops (e.g. rubber, mango, cocoa, citrus), or even non-tree species such as palms (oil palm, coconut, dates) and bamboo (a grass). Some opponents of REDD+ argue that this lack of a clear distinction is no accident. Defining a forest simply in terms of tree cover - rather than complex ecosystems and the livelihoods of peoples interacting with them – has long been used as a cover for the expansion of industrial-scale plantations. The most plausible explanation, arguably, is that commercial interests take precedence over environmental and social objectives in the shaping of REDD+ policy.\n\nSimilarly, there is no consensus on a definition for forest degradation. The IPCC has come up with a number of suggestions, again leaving countries the option to select that definition which is most convenient.\n\nA national REDD+ strategy need not refer solely to the establishment of national parks or protected areas; by the careful design of rules and guidelines, REDD+ could include land use practices such as shifting cultivation by indigenous communities and reduced-impact-logging, provided sustainable rotation and harvesting cycles can be demonstrated. Some argue that this is opening the door to logging operations in primary forests, displacement of local populations for \"conservation\", increase of tree plantations.\n\nAchieving multiple benefits, for example the conservation of biodiversity and ecosystem services (such as drainage basins), and social benefits (for example income and improved forest governance) is currently not addressed, beyond the inclusion in the safeguard.\n\nAccording to some critics, REDD+ is another extension of green capitalism, subjecting the forests and its inhabitants to new ways of expropriation and enclosure at the hands of polluting companies and market speculators. So-called \"carbon cowboys\" - unscrupulous entrepreneurs who attempt to acquire rights to carbon in rainforest for small-scale projects- have signed on indigenous communities to unfair contracts, often with a view to on-selling the rights to investors for a quick profit. In 2012 an Australian businessman operating in Peru was revealed to have signed 200-year contracts with an Amazon tribe, the Yagua, many members of which are illiterate, giving him a 50 per cent share in their carbon resources. The contracts allow him to establish and control timber projects and palm oil plantations in Yagua rainforest. This risk is largely negated by the focus on national and subnational REDD+ programs, and by government ownership of these initiatives.\n\nThere are risks that the local inhabitants and the communities that live in the forests will be bypassed and that they won't be consulted and so they won't actually receive any revenues. Fair distribution of REDD+ benefits will not be achieved without a \"prior\" reform in forest governance and more secure tenure systems in many countries. So how can the benefits from REDD+ be distributed to forest communities in a just, equitable way that minimizes capture of the benefits by national governments or local elites?\n\nThe UNFCCC has repeatedly called for \"full and effective participation of Indigenous Peoples and local communities\" without becoming any more specific. The ability of local communities to effectively contribute to REDD+ field activities and the measurement of forest properties for estimating reduced emissions and enhanced emissions of greenhouse gases has been clearly demonstrated in various countries.\n\nIn project-based REDD+, some projects are unaccountable and dodgy companies have taken advantage of the low governance.\n\n\"Safeguard (c): Respect for the knowledge and rights of indigenous peoples and members of local communities, by taking into account relevant international obligations, national circumstances and laws, and noting that the United Nations General Assembly has adopted the United Nations Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples;\"\n\"Safeguard (d): The full and effective participation of relevant stakeholders, in particular indigenous peoples and local communities, in the [REDD+] actions (...) [and when developing and implementing national strategies or action plans];\"\n\nIndigenous peoples are important stakeholders in REDD+ as they typically live inside forest areas or have their livelihoods (partially) based on exploitation of forest resources. The International Indigenous Peoples Forum on Climate Change (IIPFCC) was explicit at the Bali climate negotiations in 2007:\n\n\"REDD/REDD+ will not benefit Indigenous Peoples, but in fact will result in more violations of Indigenous Peoples’ rights. It will increase the violation of our human rights, our rights to our lands, territories and resources, steal our land, cause forced evictions, prevent access and threaten indigenous agricultural practices, destroy biodiversity and cultural diversity and cause social conflicts. Under REDD/REDD+, states and carbon traders will take more control over our forests.\"\n\nSome claim putting a commercial value on forests neglects the spiritual value they hold for Indigenous Peoples and local communities.\n\nIndigenous Peoples protested in 2008 against the United Nations Permanent Forum on Indigenous Issues final report on climate change and a paragraph that endorsed REDD+; this was captured in a video entitled \"the 2nd May Revolt\". However, these protests have largely disappeared in recent years. Indigenous people sit as permanent representatives on many multinational and national REDD+ bodies, though there is always room for improvement.\n\nIndigenous Peoples' groups in Panama broke off their collaboration with the national UN-REDD Programme in 2012 over allegations of a failure of the government to properly respect the rights of the indigenous groups.\n\nSome grassroots organizations are working to develop REDD+ activities with communities and developing benefit-sharing mechanisms to ensure REDD+ funds reach rural communities as well as governments. Examples of these include Plan Vivo projects in Mexico, Mozambique and Cameroon; and Carbonfund.org Foundation's VCS and CCBS projects in the state of Acre, Brazil.\n\nWhen REDD+ was first discussed by the UNFCCC, no indication was given of the positive incentives that would support developing countries in their efforts to implement REDD+ to reduce emissions and enhance removals of greenhouse gases from forests. In the absence of guidance from the COP, two options were debated by the international community at large:\n\nUnder the market-based approach, REDD+ would act as an \"offset scheme\" in which verified results-based actions translate into some form of carbon credits, more-or-less analogous to the market for Certified Emission Reductions (CER) under the CDM of the Kyoto Protocol. Such carbon credits could then offset emissions in the country or company of the buyer of the carbon credits. This would require Annex I countries to agree to deeper cuts in emissions of greenhouse gases in order to create a market for the carbon credits from REDD+, which is unlikely to happen soon given the current state of negotiations in the COP, but even then there is the fear that the market will be flooded with carbon credits, depressing the price to levels where REDD+ is no longer an economically viable option. Some developing countries, such as Brazil and China, maintain that developed countries must commit to real emissions reductions, independent of any offset mechanism.\n\nSince COP-17, however, it has become clear that the REDD+ may be financed by a variety of sources, market and non-market. The newly established Green Climate Fund already is supporting phase 1 and 2 REDD+ programs, and is finalizing rules to allow disbursement of result-based finance to developing countries that submit verified reports of emission reductions and enhanced removals of greenhouse gases.\n\nWhile the COP decisions emphasize national ownership and stakeholder consultation, there are concerns that some of the larger institutional organizations are driving the process, in particular outside of the \"one Party, one vote\" realm of multi-lateral negotiations under the UNFCCC. For example, the World Bank and the UN-REDD Programme, the two largest sources of funding and technical assistance for readiness activities and therefore unavoidable for most developing countries, place requirements upon recipient countries that are arguably not mandated or required by the COP decisions. A body of research suggests that, at least as of 2016, REDD+ as a global architecture has only had a limited effect on local political realities, as pre-existing entrenched power dynamics and incentives that promote deforestation are not easily changed by the relatively small sums of money that REDD+ has delivered to date. In addition, issues like land tenure that fundamentally determine who makes decisions about land use and deforestation have not been adequately addressed by REDD+, and there is no clear consensus on how complex political issues like land tenure can be easily resolved to favor standing forests over cleared forests through a relatively top-down mechanism like REDD+.\n\nWhile a single, harmonized, global system that accounts for and rewards emissions reductions from forests and land use has been elusive, diverse context-specific projects have emerged that support a variety of activities including community-based forest management, enforcement of protected areas, sustainable charcoal production, and agroforestry. Although it is not clear whether these diverse projects are genuinely different from older integrated conservation and development initiatives that pre-date REDD+, there is evidence that REDD+ has altered global policy conversations, possibly elevating issues like indigenous peoples' land rights to higher levels, or conversely threatening to bypass safeguards for indigenous rights. Debate surrounding these issues is ongoing.\n\nAlthough the World Bank declares its commitment to fight against climate change, many civil society organisations and grassroots movements around the world view with scepticism the processes being developed under the various carbon funds. Among some of the most worrying reasons are the weak (or inexistent) consultation processes with local communities; the lack of criteria to determine when a country is ready to implement REDD+ projects (readiness); the negative impacts such as deforestation and loss of biodiversity (due to fast agreements and lack of planning); the lack of safeguards to protect Indigenous Peoples' rights; and the lack of regional policies to stop deforestation. A growing coalition of civil society organization, social movement, and other actors critical of REDD+ emerged between 2008 and 2011, criticizing the mechanism on climate justice grounds. During the UN climate negotiations in Copenhagen (2009) and Cancun (2010) strong civil society and social movements coalitions formed a strong front to fight the World Bank out of the climate. However, this concern has largely died down as the World Bank initiatives have been more full developed, and some of these same actors are now participating in implementation of REDD+.\n\nITTO has been criticized for appearing to support above all the inclusion of forest extraction inside REDD+ under the guise of \"sustainable management\" in order to benefit from carbon markets while maintaining business-as-usual.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3410660", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3410660", "title": "Reserve army of labour", "text": "Reserve army of labour\n\nReserve army of labour is a concept in Karl Marx's critique of political economy. It refers to the unemployed and underemployed in capitalist society. It is synonymous with \"industrial reserve army\" or \"relative surplus population\", except that the unemployed can be defined as those actually looking for work and that the relative surplus population also includes people unable to work. The use of the word \"army\" refers to the workers being conscripted and regimented in the workplace in a hierarchy under the command or authority of the owners of capital. \n\nMarx did not invent the term \"reserve army of labour\". It was already being used by Friedrich Engels in his 1845 book \"The Condition of the Working Class in England\". What Marx did was theorize the reserve army of labour as a necessary part of the capitalist organization of work.\n\nPrior to what Marx regarded as the start of the capitalist era in human history (i.e. before the 16th century), structural unemployment on a mass scale rarely existed, other than that caused by natural disasters and wars. In ancient societies, all people who could work necessarily had to work, otherwise they would starve; and a slave or a serf by definition could not become \"unemployed\". There was normally very little possibility of \"earning a crust\" without working at all, and the usual attitude toward beggars and idlers was harsh. Children began to work already at a very early age.\n\nAlthough the idea of the industrial reserve army of labour is closely associated with Marx, it was already in circulation in the British labour movement by the 1830s. Engels discussed the reserve army of labour before Marx did in Engels's famous book \"The Condition of the Working Class in England\" (1845). The first mention of the reserve army of labour in Marx's writing occurs in a manuscript he wrote in 1847, but did not publish: \n\nThe idea of the labour force as an \"army\" occurs also in Part 1 of \"The Communist Manifesto\", written by Marx and Engels in 1848: \n\nMarx introduces the concept of the reserve army of labour in chapter 25 of the first volume of \"\", twenty years later in 1867, stating the following: \n\nHis argument is that as capitalism develops, the organic composition of capital will increase, which means that the mass of constant capital grows faster than the mass of variable capital. Fewer workers can produce all that is necessary for society's requirements. In addition, capital will become more concentrated and centralized in fewer hands.\n\nThis being the absolute historical tendency, part of the working population will tend to become surplus to the requirements of capital accumulation over time. Paradoxically, the larger the wealth of society, the larger the industrial reserve army will become. One could add that the larger the wealth of society, the more people it can also support who do not work.\n\nHowever, as Marx develops the argument further it also becomes clear that depending on the state of the economy, the reserve army of labour will either expand or contract, alternately being absorbed or expelled from the employed workforce: \n\nMarx concludes as such: \"Relative surplus-population is therefore the pivot upon which the law of demand and supply of labour works\". The availability of labour influences wage rates and the larger the unemployed workforce grows, the more this forces down wage rates; conversely, if there are plenty jobs available and unemployment is low, this tends to raise the average level of wages—in that case workers are able to change jobs rapidly to get better pay.\n\nMarx discusses the army of labor and the reserve army in \"Capital\", Chapter 14, Counteracting Factors, Section IV. The army of labor consists in those working class people employed in average or better than average jobs. Not every one in the working class gets one of these jobs. There are then four other categories where members of the working class might find themselves: the stagnant pool, the floating reserves, the latent reserve and pauperdom. Finally, people may leave the army and the reserve army by turning to criminality, Marx refers to such people as lumpenproletariat.\n\nMarx then analyses the reserve army of labour in detail using data on Britain where he lived.\n\nSome economicists such as Paul Samuelson have taken issue with Marx's concept of the reserve army of labour. Samuelson argues that much Marxian literature assumes that the \"mere existence\" of the unemployed drives down wages, when in reality is dependent upon contingent factors (Are the unemployed easily available as replacements? Is the mere threat of replacement sufficient to get workers to accept a wage cut or does the employer have to demonstrate this is not an empty threat?). Samuelson argues that if prices also fall with money wage, then this does not mean real wages will fall. Samuelson also argues that wages will only fall until there are no more unemployed to bid it down - the reserve army can only reduce wages by decreasing its size. In Samuelson's conclusion, this means that while the unemployed can reduce wages, they are incapable of reducing them to anywhere near subsistence levels before the unemployed all become employed.\n\nA similar argument was made by Murray Rothbard, who argued that if the reserve army lower wages by being absorbed into the ranks of the employed, then eventually it will disappear and be incapable of being a threat (this also means that the risk of perpetual impoverishment is averted). Rothbard observes that this is supported by modern market economics, which holds that unemployment lowers wages and thus ultimately eliminates itself. Thus Rothbard concludes that the reserve army would ultimately cease to be a threat. Rothbard also argues that industries can experience an increase in demand for other works thanks to increasing productivity caused by technology, which will then decrease unemployment due to a greater demand for workers caused by expanding production capability.\n\nSome writers have interpreted Marx's argument to mean that an absolute immiseration of the working class would occur as the broad historical trend. Thus, the workers would become more and more impoverished and unemployment would constantly grow. This is no longer credible in the light of the facts because in various epochs and countries workers' living standards have indeed improved rather than declined. In some periods, unemployment had been reduced to a very small amount. In the Great Depression, about one in four workers became unemployed, but towards the end of the post-war boom unemployment in richer countries reduced to a very low level. However, economic historian Paul Bairoch estimated in the mid-1980s that in Latin America, Africa and Asia \"total inactivity\" among the population was \"on the order of 30-40% of potential working man-hours\"—a situation without historical precedent, \"except perhaps in the case of ancient Rome\".\n\nOther writers, such as Ernest Mandel and Roman Rozdolsky, argued that in truth Marx had no theory of an absolute immiseration of the working class; at most, one could say that the rich-poor gap continues to grow, i.e. the wealthy get wealthier much more than ordinary workers improve their living standards. In part, the level of unemployment also seems to be based on the balance of power between social classes and state policy. Governments can allow unemployment to rise, but also implement job-creating policies, which makes unemployment levels partly a political result.\n\nIf chapter 25 of Marx's \"Capital, Volume I\" is read carefully, it is plain that Marx does not actually say what many critics accuse him of. Marx himself says that the \"absolute general law of capitalist accumulation\" is that the more that capital grows in size and value, the bigger the working class becomes and the larger the pauperized sections of the working class and the industrial reserve army become. However, he does not say that the whole working class becomes pauperized, but rather that the part of it which is pauperized grows in size. He then carefully qualifies this argument by saying that the absolute general law is \"like all other laws [...] modified in its working by many circumstances\". Next, Marx says that in proportion as capital accumulates, the situation of the worker, be his payment high or low must \"grow worse\". It is quite clear from the context though that by \"worse\" Marx does not primarily mean poverty. He means instead, as he says himself explicitly, that \"all means of development of production undergo a dialectical inversion so that they become means of domination and exploitation of the producers\". He is talking about \"worse\" in the sense of \"inhuman\", \"more exploited\" or \"alienated\".\n\nAnother dispute concerns the notion of \"overpopulation\". In Marx's own time, Thomas Robert Malthus raised dire predictions that population growth enabled by capitalist wealth would exceed the food supply required to sustain that population. As noted, for Marx \"overpopulation\" was really more an ideologically loaded term or social construct and Marxists have argued there is no real problem here as enough food can be produced for all; if there is a problem, it lies in the way that food is produced and distributed.\n\nMarx argued that there are no substantive laws of population that hold good for all time; instead, each specific mode of production has its own specific demographic laws. If there was \"overpopulation\" in capitalist society, it was overpopulation relative to the requirements of capital accumulation. Consequently, demography could not simply just count people in various ways as it also had to study the social relations between them as well. If there are enough resources on the planet to provide all people with a decent life, the argument that there are \"too many people\" is rather dubious.\n\nPeople cannot help being born and being there, but the concept of overpopulation can easily suggest that part of the people do not really deserve to be there, or that they should not exist. From there, it is only another step to hating part of the human race and to feel justified in wiping that part out (or at least subject people to compulsory sterilization). If people believe that each human being has a right to be there and enjoy life, there cannot be \"overpopulation\". At most, one could say that there are too many people living in a particular area. Even so, people can get used to living with remarkably little personal space.\n\nThe counter-argument is that in many poor countries people get far more children than they can reasonably feed, support and provide with a decent life under the circumstances. If people had fewer children with the aid of contraception, then it would put much less pressure on already scarce resources and enable a better life for the living.\n\nIn the social welfare area, there are also perpetual disputes about the extent to which unemployment is voluntarily chosen by people, or involuntary, whether it is forced on people or whether it is their own choice. In the Great Depression of the 1930s, when unemployment rose to 20–30% of the working population in many countries, people generally believed it was involuntary, but if unemployment levels are relatively low, the argument that unemployment is a matter of choice is more often heard. It could be that there simply are no jobs for the unemployed, but it could also be that there is a mismatch between the skills that the unemployed have and the type of skilled labour for which there is a demand. If the latter is the case, then it could be argued that if the unemployed were willing to retrain or do a different kind of work, then they could get a job. In a sense, it is always possible to get a job if a person is prepared to accept a low salary, but people might not want to work below a certain minimum amount of salary. \n\nThere are endless debates about the best way to measure unemployment, its costs and its effects and to what extent a degree of unemployment is inevitable in any country with a developed labour market. According to the NAIRU concept, price stability in market-based societies necessarily requires a certain amount of unemployment. One reason a reserve army of the unemployed exists in market economies, it is argued, is that if the level of unemployment is too low, it will stimulate price inflation. However, the validity of this argument depends also on state economic policy and on the ability of workers to raise their wages. If for example trade unions are legally blocked from organizing workers, then even if unemployment is relatively low, average wages can be kept low; the only way that individual workers have in that case to raise their income is to work more hours or work themselves up to better-paying jobs.\n\nNormally, the government measure of unemployment defines \"unemployed\" as \"without any job, but actively looking for work\". There are also people defined as \"jobless\", who want work yet are not, or no longer, actively looking for work because they are discouraged and so on. This official view of the matter is closely linked to the administration of unemployment benefits. To be entitled for an unemployment benefit, it is a requirement that the beneficiary is actively looking for work.\n\nThere are also many controversies about hidden unemployment. Hidden unemployment means that people are not counted or considered as unemployed, although in reality they are unemployed. For example, young people will stay in the family home, in schooling, or in some make-work scheme because they can not find a paid job. People might also have a job, but they might be underemployed because they cannot get more working hours or they cannot get a job for which they are qualified. People might also drop out of the official labour force because they are discouraged and no longer actively looking for work; they are no longer counted as unemployed, although they are. Governments can also subsidize employment of people who would otherwise be unemployed, or put people on benefits even although they could be working. It may be that workers are hired, but that they do nothing while at work.\n\nOn the one side, governments often try to make unemployment seem as low as possible because that is politically desirable. On the other side, governments also often provide \"broader\" and \"narrower\" measures of unemployment. For example, the United States Bureau of Labor Statistics provides six measures of labor underutilization (U-1, U-2, U-3, U-4, U-5 and U-6). The U-3 rate is the \"official\" unemployment rate.\n\nMarx was writing in the mid-19th century and his discussion of unemployment may therefore be in part out of date, especially if one considers only particular developed countries. However, his analysis may continue to be quite valid if considered globally. The ILO reports that the proportion of jobless has been steadily increasing since the beginning of the financial crisis of 2007–2008.\n\nIn 2007, the ILO standard global unemployment measure stood at 169.7 million. In 2012, the ILO global unemployment rate reached 5.9% of the civilian labour force (195.4 million, or a net 25.7 million more), 0.5 percentage points higher than the 5.4% rate before the financial crisis. The official global unemployment rate was expected to have risen to 6% of the civilian labour force in 2013. Over 30 million jobs were still needed to return total employment to the level that prevailed before the financial crisis. It was expected in 2013 that globally about 205 million people would be unemployed in 2014 and 214 million in 2018. However, the official total of the unemployed was subsequently (in 2017) forecast to be just over 201 million persons in that year and with an additional rise of 2.7 million expected in 2018. The official world total of unemployed in the labour force is approximately equal to the total number of employed workers in the United States, Canada and Mexico put together.\n\nThe official unemployment figures do not include jobless people who have dropped out of the labour force altogether because they can not find work as they include only those actually looking for work. The global unemployment rate is strongly influenced by population growth; the more population, the more unemployed and employed in absolute numbers. However, the proportion of jobless people is now rising every year and is expected to continue rising for quite some time.\n\nAmong the world's unemployed, the ILO estimates that roughly half the global total are young people aged 15 to 24. In the rich countries, it often does not matter so much if young people are unemployed at that age, but in the Middle East, Asia, Africa and Latin America where most of the unemployed youths are it is often a much more serious problem.\n\nIn recent years, there has been a growing use in Marxist and anarchist theory of the concept of \"the precariat\" to describe a growing reliance on temporary, part-time workers with precarious status who share aspects of the proletariat and the reserve army of labor. Precarious workers do work part-time or full-time in temporary jobs, but they cannot really earn enough to live on and depend partly on friends or family, or on state benefits, to survive. Typically, they do not become truly \"unemployed\", but they do not have a decent job to go to either.\n\nAlthough non-employed people who are unable or uninterested in performing legal paid work are not considered among the \"unemployed\", the concept of \"conjunctural unemployment\" is used in economics nowadays. Economists often distinguish between short-term \"frictional\" or \"cyclical\" unemployment and longer-term \"structural unemployment\". Sometimes there is a shortterm mismatch between the demand and supply of labour, at other times there is much less total demand for labour than supply for a long time. If there is no possibility for getting a job at all in the foreseeable future, many younger people decide to migrate or emigrate to a place where they can find work.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "356531", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=356531", "title": "Secretary of State for Health and Social Care", "text": "Secretary of State for Health and Social Care\n\nHer Majesty's Principal Secretary of State for Health and Social Care (Health Secretary) is a British cabinet position serving as head of the Department of Health and Social Care and holds responsibility for the National Health Service (NHS). Since devolution in 1999, the position holder's responsibility for the NHS is mainly restricted to the health service in England, with the holder's counterparts in Scotland and Wales responsible for the NHS in Scotland and Wales. Prior to devolution, the Secretaries of State for Scotland and Wales had those respective responsibilities, but the Department of Health had a larger role than now in the co-ordination of health policy across Great Britain. Health services in Northern Ireland have always had separate arrangements from the rest of the UK, and are currently the responsibility of the Health Minister in the Northern Ireland Executive.\n\nThe first Boards of Health were created by Orders in Council dated 21 June, 14 November and 21 November 1831. In 1848, a General Board of Health was created with the First Commissioner of Woods and Forests as its president. In 1854, this Board was reconstituted and the President appointed separately. However, the Board was abolished in 1858 and its function of overseeing the local boards was transferred to a new Local Government Act Office within the Home Office. From 1871, that function was transferred to the new Local Government Board.\n\nThe Ministry of Health was created in 1919 as a reconstruction of the Local Government Board. Local government functions were eventually transferred to the Minister of Housing and Local Government, leaving the Health Ministry in charge of Health proper.\n\nFrom 1968, it was amalgamated with the Ministry of Social Security under the Secretary of State for Social Services, until a de-merger of the Department of Health and Social Security on 25 July 1988.\n\nColour key (for political parties):\n"}
{"id": "20546787", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20546787", "title": "Seventh Legislative Yuan", "text": "Seventh Legislative Yuan\n\nThis is a list of the Legislative Yuan members elected to constituency (district) seats in the legislative election held on 12 January 2008. The 7th Legislative Yuan met from 1 February 2008 to 31 January 2012. The next legislative election took place in January 2012.\n\nThe following is the list of constituencies that were in place at the time of the 2004 legislative election.\n"}
{"id": "53898652", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53898652", "title": "Shakkanakku", "text": "Shakkanakku\n\nIn the Akkadian, Shakkanakku, , was a title designating a military governor.\nMari was ruled by a dynasty of hereditary Shakkanakkus which was originally set by the Akkadian empire and gained independence following Akkad's collapse. The title also existed in Qatna in the 14th century BC, and Dilmun under the Kassites.\n"}
{"id": "567017", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=567017", "title": "Speak Good English Movement", "text": "Speak Good English Movement\n\nThe Speak Good English Movement (SGEM) is a Singapore Government campaign to \"encourage Singaporeans to speak grammatically correct English that is universally understood\".\nIt was launched by then-Prime Minister Goh Chok Tong on 29 April 2000. The purpose was to ensure that Singaporeans recognise the importance of speaking Standard English and to encourage its usage.\n\nEnglish was introduced in 1819 with the establishment of the modern port in Singapore. The port attracted migrants from neighbouring countries, such as China and India, resulting in a diverse linguistic landscape. Proximity to these languages has over generations influenced Singaporean English. Known colloquially as Singlish, it is characterised by the mixture of local expressions with Standard English (e.g. the use of discourse particles such as \"lah\"). Singlish is commonly used by Singaporeans in informal contexts and can be incomprehensible to non-Singaporeans.\n\nWhen the Speak Good English Movement was launched in 1999, then-Prime Minister Goh Chok Tong described Singlish as \"English corrupted by Singaporeans\", and \"broken, ungrammatical English\". According to the government, mastery of Standard English is imperative to raise living standards in Singapore, and Singlish causes problems when Singaporeans need to communicate in the \"global language of commerce, business and technology\". The movement thus campaigns for an improved standard of English used in Singapore. In hopes of extending its reach, the movement adopts a different theme and target group each year, and also collaborates with various partner organisations to provide programmes in line with the movement's goals.\n\nThe campaign aims to discourage the use of Singlish and encourage the use of a more standardised form of English, (i.e. generally modelled on the British standard). According to the movement's chairman, then Colonel(NS) David Wong, the Speak Good English Movement aims to build a sense of pride that Singaporeans can speak good English, as opposed to Singlish, as well as to check the trend where Singaporeans use Singlish as a way of identifying themselves. Instead, it envisions a brand of grammatically correct English, different from Singlish, to be linked with the unique Singaporean identity.\n\nSince 2003, the Speak Good English Movement has been launched annually with year-long programmes and activities held island-wide to increase the awareness among Singaporeans that speaking good English matters in their daily lives. Each year a different theme focusing on the target audience is created. The themes that were used in the campaign up until 2015 are:\n\n\nIn 1999, then Prime Minister Goh Chok Tong highlighted the problem of speaking Singlish in his National Day Rally. A year later in April 2000, he officially launched the Speak Good English Movement with the tagline 'Speak Well, Be Understood'. He stressed the importance of speaking standard English and reducing the use of Singlish, as Singapore is a hub city and an open economy with a need to interact with English-speaking foreigners. Singaporeans often use Chinese syntax and literal translations of Chinese phrases while speaking English, which make utterances seem truncated and incomprehensible to foreigners. In his rally, the prime minister stressed that \"if we speak a corrupted form of English that is not understood by others, we will lose a key competitive advantage.\" The movement was spearheaded by a committee of people in the private sector led by then Colonel (NS) David Wong, a senior adviser with the consulting company Ernst and Young. Its target audience was Singaporeans under 40, which included young working adults, parents and students in schools, tertiary institutes, polytechnics and technical institutes. The launch kick-started a week-long festival packed with events such as plays and a speech marathon.\n\nLater in the year, the public sector also organised year-long programmes as part of the movement. One such event was the seminar held by the Singapore Teachers' Union (STU) at the Shangri-La Hotel, attended by about 500 participants who were mostly teachers. The seminar emphasised the power of pronunciation and the teaching of grammar, and encouraged teachers to teach English in more creative ways in schools using dramas and role-playing. Other highlights in 2000 included the launch of Grammar Matters, a series of 5 books using comics to illustrate the correct use of grammar by the Regional English Language Centre in support of the movement.\n\nFrom 2001–2002, it was reported that increasingly, Singaporeans were becoming more aware and acknowledging the importance of speaking good English. The British Council continued to operate its toll-free line giving English lessons. Reportedly, year 2001 saw almost 250,000 callers while there were about 170,000 callers in 2002. Also, an inter-school Scrabble competition, in which 54 primary schools participated, was held to kick off the year's events in April 2002.\n\nAccording to the Government, more Singaporeans recognised the need to speak well, and took steps to improve their spoken English. Programmes organised by SGEM partners such as the People’s Association and the British Council were well received.\n\nIn 2003, the movement, already in its fourth year, aimed to not only encourage Singaporeans to speak well but also speak simple English. Chairman Wong said, \"They may be afraid to use English, it's not natural to them. This year what we would like to do is encourage people to try. Have a go even if they can't speak well, even if they cannot use long words, even if they can't use long sentences, it's not important. The idea is to use simple words, simple sentences and convey their message clearly.\" The movement continued throughout the year until March 2004 so as to create greater impact and awareness.\n\n\"Partner Programmes in 2003–04\"\n\n\nIn its fifth year, acting Manpower Minister Ng Eng Hen launched the campaign at The Arts House at Old Parliament in April 2004. The target of the campaign can be summed up as English@Work&Play. Its target audience was working adults in the service industry, including cabbies, shop assistants, waiters and others, which made up 70 percent of all workers in Singapore. People in positions of influence, parents and teachers were also encouraged to serve as positive role models in speaking good English to those around them. The movement also partnered organisations and key agencies in training workshop initiatives to improve the English language proficiency of all their teachers. A new programme called Functional Literacy For Our Workers (FLOW) was initiated by the Workforce Development Agency with the aim to equip workers who had little English literacy with some basic tools required for them to do their work. Other activities to promote good English were also held throughout the year, such as the WISH programme (as in the previous year), and talks at selected public libraries to educate the public on the importance of reading aloud and on using English to communicate with one's family.\n\n\"Partner Programmes in 2004–05\"\n\nPrime Minister Lee Hsien Loong launched that year's Speak Good English Movement on 13 May at the HDB Hub Auditorium at Toa Payoh. Chairing the movement was Professor Koh Tai Ann, professor of English Literature at the School of Humanities and Social Sciences at Nanyang Technological University. Professor Koh highlighted that speaking good English did not necessary mean that one should seek to eradicate or diminish the usage of Singlish or mother tongue. He recognised the importance of mother tongue and Singlish as a bonding element for Singaporeans, but emphasised that there was a right place and time for it and that Singaporeans must be able to converse in Standard English when the occasion called for it. The highlights of that year's movement included the appointment of 12 ambassadors for the SGEM 2005. They included taxi drivers, cyber gamers and media personalities.\n\n\"Partner Programmes in 2005–06\"\n\n\nThe 2006 movement was launched by Radm (NS) Lui Tuck Yew, Minister of State For Education on 25 July 2006 at The Plaza, National Library Building. The focus of the year was on creating a standard of English for Singaporeans to be understood anywhere in the world, not just locally but internationally. The highlights of the 2006 movement include starting of the 'English as it is Broken' column in the Generation Y page of The Sunday Times which addressed questions relating to English sent in by its readers. This column continued its run for 2 years in print and was later adapted to a regularly updated online column on STOMP which still runs today. There have also been daily enquiries regarding English language on STOMP. Its popularity led to the publication of 2 best-selling volumes of books of the same title- 'English As It is Broken', based on issues brought up from the site.\n\n\"Partner Programmes in 2006–07\"\n\n\nLaunched by Radm (NS) Lui Tuck Yew, Minister of State For Education on 31 July 2007 at Timbre Music Bistro, the 2007/08 Movement targeted 4 broad groups- youth, parents, teacher and frontline staff. The key focus was on the youth, while parents, teachers, and frontline staff were seen as the main people to have interactions with them, thus having a vital role in the language input that they receive. The organizers tried to encourage young Singaporeans to express themselves through the arts and music. This year also saw the appointment for the new chairman – Mr Goh Eck Kheng, publisher of Landmark Books for a two-year term from 1 March 2008 to 30 April 2010.\n\nFrom August 2007 to June 2008, the movement held weekly programmes and performances which aimed to allow youths to grow their confidence and fluency with the code. Programmes included music, oratorical performances, film, drama, stand-up comedy, and poetry. In providing a platform for local artists, it had hoped to use the power and reach of those artists to send its message to youths in Singapore. It also embraced new platforms, such as social networking media like the following:\n\n\"Partner Programmes in 2007–08\"\n\nLaunched by Minister Lim Boon Heng, Prime Minister’s Office, on 26 August 2008, the Speak Good English Movement 2008 targeted the workforce who were seen as the people both Singaporeans and international visitors would encounter most frequently. Frontline staff of the service and retail sectors were especially targeted.\nThe message of the tagline of 2008 – 'I Can' was that 'I can help others improve their English.', 'I can take action to improve my English.' and I can speak good English if I want to.' In order to encourage willingness to speak and improve their proficiency of Standard English, the movement of this year initiated the classification of Singaporeans into 3 categories. 1. Singaporeans who can speak Standard English. 2. Singaporeans who cannot yet speak Standard English and are open to improving themselves. 3. Singaporeans who are not able to speak Standard English and do not see the importance of doing so.\n\n\"Partner Programmes in 2008–09\"\n\n\nThe Speak Good English Movement 2009 was officially launched by Deputy Prime Minister Teo Chee Hean on 28 August with the tagline \"Impress. Inspire. Intoxicate.\" Impress those we communicate with, Inspire others as role models of good English and using words that Intoxicate to make everyday communication more engaging. The tagline also aimed to convey the message that communicating well goes beyond grammar and vocabulary and involves being able to express and be understood as well. The target of this year's movement is young people of the wired generation, aged 18 to 29.\n\nSix Lives\n\nThis year, the movement initiated an online drama titled Six Lives which followed the lives of six friends planning a wedding for their friends John and Huileng. Over a span of 12 episodes, Six Lives aimed to show the importance of communicating well and how 'Impress, Inspire and Intoxicate' can be incorporated into daily situations that friends get into, through the demonstration by the six characters who interacted through blog entries and comments at the Sixlives webpage.\n\n\"Partner Programmes in 2009–10\"\n\n\nIn its 11th year, the Speak Good English Movement 2010 which was launched on 7 September 2010 with the tagline 'Get It Right'. This year's focus is on those who are less proficient in Standard English. It aimed at broadening the environment in which Standard English is used, in order to create a conducive environment where those less proficient in the code can learn by example. Fluent speakers of Standard English are encouraged to use it more frequently in all conversation, regardless if it is with family members, colleagues, hawkers, or taxi drivers.\n\nActivist toolkit\n\nIn a bid for Singaporeans to 'Get It Right'-where those proficient in Standard English take note to use the language accurately and those who are less proficient at it try to use it correctly; the organisers introduced an Activist Toolkit. The Activist Toolkit includes sticky notes, stickers and notebooks. People are encouraged to use the sticky notes to correct English errors that they encounter anywhere. For example, correcting a wrongly expressed sign by pasting a sticky note over it. This tactic is called 'guerrilla-styled' from guerrilla marketing. The current Minister for Community Development, Youth and Sports Vivian Balakrishnan kicked off this year's campaign by being the first to correct a sign at the Xin Food Court at the HarbourFront Centre. He replaced an ungrammatical sign saying 'No outside food allowed' with a one which reads 'No food from elsewhere, please'.\n\n\"Partner Programmes in 2010–11\"\n\n\nThe SGEM has received mixed reactions from its beginning; its strongest opponents have included linguists and social commentators. In response, Liew Choon Boon, Director of the Arts & Heritage Development Division from the Ministry of Information, Communications and the Arts and Ho Peng, Director of Curriculum Planning and Development from the Ministry of Education, wrote in a letter published in \"The Straits Times\" on 12 December 2008:\nThe Speak Good English Movement is the government's effort to encourage Singaporeans to speak Standard English rather than the colloquial form, Singlish. Many Singaporeans have criticised this as trying to eradicate Singlish. Arguing that Singlish is a distinctive marker of Singaporean identity, supporters of Singlish criticise SGEM. Their support for Singlish stems from the belief that Singlish can forge social cohesion and according to some, \"It may be the only thing that makes us Singaporean.\" Likewise, celebrity STOMP blogger, Leow Ju Len says in this blog post: \n\nOn 27 April 2002, two years after the start of SGEM, TalkingCock launched the Save Our Singlish Campaign. They made it clear at the speech during the launch that they did not oppose the speaking of good English. Rather, they \"completely support the writing and speaking of good English\" and hoped that SGEM would see the Save Our Singlish Campaign \"as complementary, not adversarial\". TalkingCock found it important to save Singlish for it is a crucial part of the Singaporean culture and heritage:\n\nFurthermore, they reiterated that \"Singlish is not just broken English. It's a patois.\" They argued that speaking good English should not be promoted at the expense of Singlish. \"Singapore Watch\" summed it up with \"Speak Singlish proudly, speak English properly.\" Colin Goh, who started TalkingCock, pointed out that Singaporeans can tell the difference between English and Singlish:\n\nHe further acknowledged that there are times when improper English is spoken by Singaporeans but reiterated that the blame cannot be pushed onto Singlish:\nIn an event held on 24 August 2006, \"TalkingCock in Parliament: We, the Citizens\", Ruby Pan (a former Ministry of Education scholar and a graduate of Princeton University) displayed the ability to switch easily from Standard English to Singlish and to different English accents.\n\nThe Speak Good Singlish Movement gathers support through a Facebook page which had 252 members though as reported in a dead link, an identically named group had 3,140 members in December 2012. It began as a response to the launch of SGEM 2010, in particular, its notion of using post-its to correct public signs written in poor English. The page ran its own post-it campaign, called the \"Post-its Tak Bak Chew Campaign\", inviting supporters to send in snapshots of their own home-made signs with proper Singlish.\n\nThe original Facebook page was established on 11 September 2010 with the following statements:\n\nIn an exclusive interview with The Online Citizen, one of the Singapore's key social commentary websites, its unnamed founder directly called into question Dr Balakrishnan's appeal about the SGEM.\n\nSince Singapore gained independence in 1965, English is taught as a first language and is also the most dominant language in Singapore. All public schools use English as the medium of instruction. But one cannot classify all Singaporeans as native speakers of English because the main languages spoken at home are not necessarily English. In 2006, then Education Minister Tharman Shanmugaratnam mentioned during a dialogue session at a student education conference that his ministry was looking at hiring \"native speakers\" to teach English Language in schools in order to improve the standard of teaching the English language in school. Following this, many Singaporeans wrote in to newspapers forums with questions such as \"Why aren't our English teachers suitably qualified?\" and wondering if \"native English speakers\" meant foreign English-speakers hailing from the United States or from Britain.\n\nOn 14 June 2006, mrbrown reported in his blog that the Ministry of Education had already put up job advertisements in the British newspaper \"The Guardian\" for experienced, qualified native speakers of English to teach English as a first language, English Literature, Geography, History, Knowledge and Inquiry.\n\nSubsequently, mrbrown created two podcasts on the mrbrown show to express his views. The first gave insight to what will happen if the implementation of hiring foreign native English speakers to teach English became too successful. The second tells of how he imagines the interviews with the native speaker applicants for the teaching jobs.\n\nIn response, Jennifer Chan, Press Secretary to Minister for Education, wrote in a forum letter reply dated 22 June 2006 that:\n\nThe hiring of \"a small number\" of foreign teachers was to complement the local teachers in subjects like English, the Mother Tongue Languages and the Humanities. This formed part of the plan to bring the standard of English languages in schools to a higher level.\n\nDrawing from notions of linguistic interference, the \"interference\" argument justifies the need to eliminate Singlish by suggesting that it confuses and contaminates Standard English. It suggests that the inability to distinguish the grammars of the two varieties of English will cause learners to mix their features, thus contaminating the grammar of the standard version.\n\nHowever, many Singaporeans feel that Singlish is unlikely to negatively affect their proficiency in Standard English. In a 2008 study, about 41% of the Singaporean participants felt that they already have a good command of English. Another study by Wee (2005) has shown that in general, Singaporeans are confident in their code-switching abilities between Singlish and Standard English, which undermines the claims that using Singlish interferes with the learning of Standard English.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3445506", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3445506", "title": "Steamshovel Press", "text": "Steamshovel Press\n\nSteamshovel Press is a zine devoted to conspiracy theories and parapolitics. The magazine was started in 1992. It was founded and previously published by Kenn Thomas. The magazine was named after one of Bob Dylan's song, From A Buick Six from Highway 61 Revisited. The headquarters is in St. Louis.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48748636", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48748636", "title": "Susan Ariel Aaronson", "text": "Susan Ariel Aaronson\n\nSusan Ariel Aaronson is an American author, public speaker and an academic whose works are centred on the relationship between economic change and human rights. Aaronson currently works as a research professor at the Elliott School of International Affairs after serving as a fellow of the World Trade Institute from 2008–2012.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33243186", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33243186", "title": "Tetsunari Iida", "text": "Tetsunari Iida\n\nTetsunari Iida (, \"Iida Tetsunari\"; born 1959, Yamaguchi Prefecture, Japan) is director of the Institute for Sustainable Energy Policies in Japan. Following the Fukushima nuclear disaster, he is calling for a decrease in Japan's reliance on nuclear power and an increase in renewable energy use.\n\nIida started his career as a nuclear engineer, but he quit in 1992, and went to study renewable energy in Sweden. In September 2011, Iida launched the Japan Renewable Energy Foundation, which is backed by ¥1 billion (US$13 million) from Japan's richest man, Masayoshi Son. \nSolar power in Japan has been expanding since the late 1990s. The country is a leading manufacturer of photovoltaics (PV) and a large installer of domestic PV systems with most of them grid connected.\n\nIida started his career as a nuclear engineer, but he quit in 1992, and went to study renewable energy in Sweden. When he returned to Japan in 1998, he formed the Institute for Sustainable Energy Policies. Since then he has set up several green mutual funds.\n\nIn September 2011, Iida launched the Japan Renewable Energy Foundation, which is backed by ¥1 billion (US$13 million) from Japan's richest man, Masayoshi Son. The foundation will bring together some 100 experts from around the world to analyse obstacles to implementing renewable energy, and offer policy recommendations to the new Japanese government.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24481553", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24481553", "title": "The Other Economic Summit", "text": "The Other Economic Summit\n\nThe Other Economic Summit (TOES) was a counter-summit to the annual G7 summits, first held in 1984 in London. It included diverse groups of economists, greens and community activists. TOES eventually became an umbrella term and similar meetings were organised around the world for the next two decades.\n\nThe Other Economic Summit (TOES) was the idea of Sally Willington (1931-2008), founder of AIMS and founder member of the British Green Party. The First TOES in 1984 was organised by the New Economics Foundation and the Right Livelihood Awards, and was focused on alternative development and environmental issues.\n\nThe purpose of the summit was to highlight that the economy could be organised in other ways. TOES also challenged the right of the G7 leaders to speak for the world. TOES demanded that the system of global economic governance should be democratised. It was also suggested that the G7 Summits should be replaced by a representative World Economic Council within the United Nations system. \n\nFrom 1985 to 1987 TOES was held in the UK, sending a delegation to the G-7 summit city. From 1988 onward, TOES convened every year in the city of the G-7 Summit. In 1988 TOES North America sponsored the TOES in Toronto which was part of a Citizens Summit. In 1989 TOES France held an alternative summit in Paris entitled \"L'Autre Sommet Economique\". The 1990 TOES was held for three days in Houston, Texas \n\nPolitical scientist Andrew Vincent argues that an ecologically based theory of economics underpins TOES, part of an emerging political ideology referred to by Vincent as \"ecologism\".\n\nBritish environmentalist Jonathon Porritt, economists Paul Ekins (initial director of TOES), David Fleming and James Robertson, Alison Pritchard, a Schumacher Society Council member, Jakob von Uexkull, founder of the Right Livelihood Award, and others helped to set up TOES and the New Economics Foundation.\n"}
{"id": "30440076", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30440076", "title": "Volk ohne Raum", "text": "Volk ohne Raum\n\n\"Volk ohne Raum\" ( English: \"people without space\") was a political slogan used in the Weimar Republic and Nazi Germany. The term was coined by the nationalist writer Hans Grimm with his novel \"Volk ohne Raum\" (1926). The novel immediately attracted much attention and sold nearly 700,000 copies.\n\nThe slogan was used in a political context to suggest that due to the Treaty of Versailles depriving Germany of her colonial empire, the Germans had become a people without living space (\"Lebensraum\"), struggling with poverty, misery, hunger and overpopulation. Closely linked to this idea was the claim that the earth was divided unfairly among the Great Powers, leaving the Germans possessing little land compared to the less populous European nations.\n\nThe most known usage of the slogan is by the Nazis. In Nazi propaganda the slogan was repeatedly used to at least justify or legitimize the German conquest of Poland and the Soviet Union and for the massive territorial expansion into Eastern Europe to ensure Germanic Aryan \"Herrenvolk\" (\"Aryan master race\") rule over Poles and Russians who the Nazis considered \"non Aryan\" and subhuman. Slavs as non-Aryans were to be ethnically cleansed and exterminated, and their territories settled by Germans. From the very early days of the Nazi party, the notion that the Germans were people without living space and had a right to expand was widespread among German nationalists and right-wing organisations. On February 24, 1920, Hitler proclaimed the party program and one of the 25 points of the National Socialist Program stated: \"We demand land and territory (colonies) for the sustenance of our people, and colonization for our surplus population.\" In order to justify their \"Drang nach Osten\" (\"desire to push East\"), the Nazis amended the slogan of \"Volk ohne Raum\" by declaring the vast, sparsely populated lands of Russia a \"Raum ohne Volk\" (a \"space without people\") which had to be conquered by Germany, the \"nation without space\".\n\n"}
{"id": "56437935", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56437935", "title": "William H. J. Rangeley", "text": "William H. J. Rangeley\n\nWilliam H J Rangeley (1910-1958) was an officer in the colonial administration of Nyasaland and a scholar of the oral history and ethnography of the peoples of what is now Malawi.\n\nWilliam Rangeley, the son of two early Northern Rhodesia pioneers, Henry Rangeley and Florence (née van Breda) was born at Fort Jameson, (now Chipata, Zambia), in what was then Northern Rhodesia, on 2 July 1909. He attended a school in Plumtree in Southern Rhodesia. and then the Diocesan College at Rondebosch, a suburb of Cape Town, in South Africa. He attended Rhodes University in Grahamstown and, under a Rhodes Scholarship he studied at Brasenose College, Oxford, from which he subsequently received a diploma in Anthropology following study during an extended leave. \nAfter his scholarship at Oxford University ended, he was appointed to the colonial administration of Nyasaland in 1934. He served in many districts and became District Commissioner in Nkhotakota District in the Central Province and Mzimba District in the Northern Province, and was promoted to Provincial Commissioner for the Southern Province in 1952. He retained his post as Provincial Commissioner until his death in 1958.\n\nBetween 1892 and 1904, district officers with the official title of Collectors of Revenue, later that of Resident, were appointed by the Commissioner and Consul-General of the protectorate. From 1904, the Colonial Office assumed responsibility for appointments, but before the First World War they included ex-soldiers and ex-missionary employees whose African experience was their main qualification. After the First World War, the preferred candidates were from the British upper middle class, educated in British public schools and, if possible, universities. By the 1930s, most new district officers were graduates; the Colonial Office preferred those from Oxford or Cambridge but their graduates usually chose colonies such as Kenya or Southern Rhodesia. Rangeley was not from the usual background of district officers and was described as “rough-hewn”, but his Rhodes Scholarship made him a suitable candidate.\n\nIn 1933, Indirect rule was introduced into Nyasaland, and customary law needed to be understood by what were now District Commissioners, who had to ensure that local customary law was being correctly applied by each Native Authority in their districts. Up to this point, the customary law of African societies had been evolving in response to rapid changes in them, but the colonial administration wanted laws that were codified and consistent with English law, as by rejecting Trial by ordeal or the recognition of domestic slavery. Rangeley was particularly well equipped for this task through his anthropological training and meticulous recording of information, and also his childhood in an area where the Chewa language, also used in central Nyasaland, was spoken.\n\nThe first stadium built in Blantyre was named the Rangeley Stadium after him, but renamed the Kamuzu Stadium after the first president of the independent Malawi, Dr Hastings Kamuzu Banda.\n\nRangeley joined the Nyasaland Society, now the Society of Malawi, Historical and Scientific, in 1948 and produced a detailed anthropological study of the Chewa people in the first volume of The Nyasaland Journal. As a trained anthropologist, Rangeley was able to carry out original research into the history and culture of the indigenous peoples of Nyasaland living in the areas where his successive appointments took him and he produced around a dozen articles for the Nyasaland Journal before his death. Two articles published in 1959 and 1960 were completed before his death and six published between 1962 and 1964 were chapters of a proposed comprehensive history of Nyasaland. He also undertook investigation of early habitation sites and rock art\n\nRangeley died of drowning while on a fishing holiday at Cape Agulhas, South Africa on 20 March 1958. There is no record of him marrying or having children.\n\n"}
{"id": "18388061", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18388061", "title": "Xeer", "text": "Xeer\n\nXeer (pronounced /ħeːr/) is the traditional legal system of Somalia, and one of the three systems from which formal Somali law draws its inspiration, the others being civil law and Islamic law. It is believed to pre-date Islam, although it was influenced by Islam and retains many of the faith's conservative elements. Under this system, elders, known as the \"xeer begti\" serve as mediator judges and help settle court cases, taking precedent and custom into account. Xeer is polycentric in that different groups within Somali society have different interpretations of xeer.\n\nSomali society is traditionally structured around a clan based system, subdivided into sub-clans, then lineages, and finally diyya groupings. These groups are bound together either by family ties or contract. Xeer justice usually revolves around the latter groups, as these are the smallest. In these groups, each member is responsible for the crimes of another, and must accordingly bear some fraction of any decided punishment. Within this system, only the victim or immediate family of a victim can bring criminal proceedings to xeer mediation. If the victim is a man, his father, brothers, or uncles can bring complaints forward. If the victim is a woman, complaints can be brought forward by the men in her family or the men in her husband's family. \n\nIn xeer, crimes are defined in terms of being transgressions against property rights. Justice is directed in the form of material compensation to the victim. If the accused is found guilty, some form of material restitution must be paid. If restitution cannot be given, a diyya retribution is due, measured in terms of livestock (usually healthy female camels), to be paid to the victim or the victim's family. There is no concept of imprisonment under xeer. In some cases, elders may advise that neither side seeks restitution or retribution. The verdict is enforced by the victim's family or else by all able-bodied clansmen within the area wherein the verdict is to be executed.\n\nXeer judges are made up of the heads of extended families. These family heads are chosen for their knowledge of law and wisdom, but otherwise there is no formal training, and each judge is allowed to formulate their own doctrines and legal principles. Multiple judges are chosen to preside over each case by the involved parties, with this delegation being called an \"ergo\". The number of judges involved in a case is usually around ten, though it can be as few as two.\n\nIn each case, the goal is to reach consensus between the parties. Arbitration traditionally takes place under a large tree, and the mediators ask each of the parties to submit to the ruling of the judges. In modern times, meeting halls are often used as opposed to sitting under a tree. Each party has the right to appoint a representative to speak on its behalf, while a recorder loudly repeats any important points that are made. If a fact is disputed, its veracity must be obtained by the testimony of three witnesses. If this cannot be done, an oath must be sworn. Should proceedings become heated, the presiding judge may order a recess, wherein both parties discuss issues relating to the case in small informal groups. Once the mediation has been decided, an appeal may be requested, although this must be agreed to by all parties.\n\nDifferent groups within Somali society undertake oral agreements with each other to define xeer law. Despite this informal nature, there is a series of generally accepted principles, agreements, and ideas that constitute xeer, referred to collectively as \"xissi adkaaday\". These are: the payment of diyya by the collective group (clan, sub-clan, lineage, or diyya group) from which an offender originates as compensation for the crimes of murder, bodily assault, theft, rape, and defamation of character, given to the victim or victim's family; the protection of vulnerable or respected members of society such as the elderly, women, children, poets, guests and religious people; obligations to the family such as the payment of a dowry to a bride; the rights of a widower to marry the dead wife's sister and the inheritance of a widow by the dead man's brother; the punishments for elopement; and the division and use of natural resources like water and land.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18952530", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18952530", "title": "Xeriscaping", "text": "Xeriscaping\n\nXeriscaping is landscaping and gardening that reduces or eliminates the need for supplemental water from irrigation. It is promoted in regions that do not have easily accessible, plentiful, or reliable supplies of fresh water, and is gaining acceptance in other areas as access to water becomes more limited. Xeriscaping may be an alternative to various types of traditional gardening.\n\nIn some areas, terms as \"water-conserving landscapes\", \"drought-tolerant landscaping\", and \"smart scaping\" are used instead. Plants whose natural requirements are appropriate to the local climate are emphasized, and care is taken to avoid losing water to evaporation and run-off. The specific plants used in xeriscaping depend upon the climate. Xeriscaping is different from natural landscaping, because the emphasis in xeriscaping is on selection of plants for water conservation, not necessarily selecting native plants.\n\nPublic perception of xeriscaping has frequently been negative as many assume that these types of landscapes are ugly expanses of cactus and gravel. However, studies have shown that education in water conservation practices in the landscape can greatly improve the public's perception of xeriscaping.\n\nDenver Water coined the term xeriscape in 1981 by combining \"landscape\" with the Greek prefix \"xero-\", from \"xeros\", meaning dry. The term zero-scaping or zeroscaping is sometimes substituted for xeriscaping due to phonetic similarity. When used seriously, zero-scaping usually refers to a different type of low-water landscaping that is often devoid, or nearly devoid of plants. Because the term was derived from the Greek root \"xeros\", xeriscaping is sometimes misspelled xeroscaping.\n\n\nSome homeowners associations have strict rules requiring a certain percentage of land to be used as lawns but these rules either have been or are in the process of being overturned in many areas.\n\nOriginally conceived by Denver Water, the seven design principles of xeriscaping have since expanded into simple and applicable concepts to creating landscapes that use less water. The principles are appropriate for multiple regions and can serve as a guide to creating a water conserving landscape that is regionally appropriate and since they were conceived for homeowners they are easy to implement.\n\n1. Plan and design: Create a diagram, drawn to scale, that shows the major elements of the landscape, including house, driveway, sidewalk, deck or patio, existing trees and other elements.\n\nOnce a base plan of an existing site has been determined, the creation of a conceptual plan (bubble diagram) that shows the areas for turf, perennial beds, views, screens, slopes, etc. is undertaken. Once finished, the development of a planting plan that reinforces the areas in the appropriate scale is done.\n\n2. Soil amendment Most plants will benefit from the use of compost, which will help the soil retain water. Some desert plants prefer gravel soils instead of well-amended soils. Plants should either fit the soil or soil should be amended to fit the plants.\n\n3. Efficient irrigation: Xeriscape can be irrigated efficiently by hand or with an automatic sprinkler system. Zone turf areas separately from other plants and use the irrigation method that waters the plants in each area most efficiently. For grass, use gear-driven rotors or rotary spray nozzles that have larger droplets and low angles to avoid wind drift. Spray, drip line or bubbler emitters are most efficient for watering trees, shrubs, flowers and groundcovers.\n\nIf watering by hand, avoid oscillating sprinklers and other sprinklers that throw water high in the air or release a fine mist. The most efficient sprinklers release big drops close to the ground.\n\nWater deeply and infrequently to develop deep roots. Never water during the day to reduce water lost to evaporation. With the use of automatic sprinkling systems, adjust the controller monthly to accommodate weather conditions. Also, install a rain sensor to shut off the device when it rains.\n\n4. Appropriate plant and zone selection: Different areas in a yard receive different amounts of light, wind and moisture. To minimize water waste, group together plants with similar light and water requirements, and place them in an area that matches these requirements. Put moderate-water-use plants in low-lying drainage areas, near downspouts, or in the shade of other plants. Turf typically requires the most water and shrub/perennial beds will require approximately half the amount of water.\nDry, sunny areas support low-water-use plants that grow well in our climate. Planting a variety of plants with different heights, color and textures creates interest and beauty.\n\n5. Mulch: Mulch keeps plant roots cool, prevents soil from crusting, minimizes evaporation and reduces weed growth. Organic mulches, such as bark chips, pole peelings or wood grindings, should be applied 2 to 4 inches deep. Fiber mulches create a web that is more resistant to wind and rain washout. Inorganic mulches, such as rocks and gravel, should be applied 2 to 3 inches deep. Surrounding plants with rock makes the area hotter; limit this practice.\n\n6. Limited turf areas: Native grasses (warm-season) that have been cultivated for turf lawns, such as buffalo grass and blue grama, can survive with a quarter of the water that bluegrass varieties need. Warm-season grasses are greenest in June through September and straw brown the rest of the year.\n\nNative grasses (cool season) such as bluegrass and tall fescue, are greenest in the spring and fall and go dormant in the high heat of the summer. New cultivars of bluegrass, such as Reveille, and tall fescue, can reduce typical bluegrass water requirements by at least 30 percent. Fine fescues can provide substantial water savings and is best used in areas that receive low traffic or are in shady locations.\n\nUse the appropriate grass and limit the amount of grass to reduce the watering and maintenance requirements.\n\n7. Maintenance: All landscapes require some degree of care during the year. Turf requires spring and fall aeration along with regular fertilization every 6 to 8 weeks. Keep the grass height at 3 inches and allow the clippings to fall. Trees, shrubs and perennials will need occasional pruning to remove dead stems, promote blooming or control height and spread. Much of the removed plant material can be shredded and used in composting piles.\n\nOne of the major challenges to the public acceptance of xeriscaping is the cultural attachment to turf grass lawns. Originally implemented in England, lawns have become in some regions a symbol of prosperity, order and community. In the United States turf grasses are so common that it is the single most irrigated crop by surface area, covering nearly . Despite the high water, fertiliser and maintenance costs associated with lawns, they have become the social norm in most urban and suburban areas, even if they are rarely used for recreational purposes or otherwise. Xeriscaped landscapes offer an alternative to the over use of turf grass lawns but are not widely accepted because of preconceived notions of what it means to xeriscape. Xeriscaping can include lawn areas but seeks to reduce them to areas that will actually be used, rather than using them as a default landscaping plan.\n\n\n"}
