{"id": "993987", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=993987", "title": "Absent-minded professor", "text": "Absent-minded professor\n\nThe absent-minded professor is a stock character of popular fiction, usually portrayed as a talented academic whose academic brilliance is accompanied by below-par functioning in other areas, leading to forgetfulness and mistakes. One explanation of this is that highly talented individuals often have unevenly distributed capabilities, being brilliant in their field of choice but below average on other measures of ability. Alternatively, they are considered to be so engrossed in their field of study that they forget their surroundings. \n\nThe phrase \"absent-minded professor\" is also commonly used more generally in English to describe people who are so engrossed in their \"own world\" that they fail to keep track of their surroundings. It is a common stereotype that professors get so obsessed with their research that they pay little attention to anything else.\n\nThe stereotype is very old: the ancient Greek biographer Diogenes Laërtius wrote that the philosopher Thales walked at night with his eyes focused on the heavens and, as a result, fell down a well.\n\nIsaac Newton, Adam Smith, André-Marie Ampère, Jacques Hadamard, Sewall Wright, Nikola Tesla, Norbert Wiener, Archimedes, Pierre Curie and Albert Einstein were all scholars considered to be absent-minded – their attention absorbed by their academic studies. William Archibald Spooner, who gave his name to the spoonerism, was known for his absent-mindedness and eccentricity.\n\n\"Doc\" Emmett Brown from \"Back to the Future\" is an example of an absent-minded professor in film. Another example is the title character in the film \"The Absent-Minded Professor\" and its less successful film remakes, all based on the short story \"A Situation of Gravity\" by Samuel W. Taylor. \n\nExamples in television include Professor Farnsworth in \"Futurama\", Professor Frink in \"The Simpsons\", Walter Bishop in the Fox television series \"Fringe\", and Professor Von Schlemmer in \"Adventures of Sonic the Hedgehog\". Multo, one of the characters in the children's series \"The Zula Patrol\", is another example of an absent-minded professor. \n\nProfessor Kokintz in \"The Mouse That Roared\" by Leonard Wibberley is an example from literature. Professor Branestawm, created in the 1930s by Norman Hunter, is an earlier example of the archetype, and Jacques Paganel from the Jules Verne's 1867 novel \"In Search of the Castaways\" is probably the codifier of the archetype in the modern literature. Professor Caractacus Potts in the story of \"Chitty Chitty Bang Bang\" qualifies as an absent-minded inventor. \n\nComic strip examples include Professor Calculus in \"The Adventures of Tintin\"; Eli Eon in \"Little Orphan Annie\"; and Professor Edgewise, a minor recurring character in Marvel Family stories. \n\nIsaac Kleiner from the \"Half-Life\" saga and Professor Harold MacDougal from \"Red Dead Redemption\" are examples in videogames.\n\nThe archetype is sometimes mixed with that of the mad scientist, often for comic effect, as in the Jerry Lewis film \"The Nutty Professor\" or the Profesor Bacterio in the \"Mortadelo y Filemón\" comics and movies. However, the mad scientist archetype usually has malevolent connotations, while the absent-minded professor is typically characterized as benevolent. \n\nThe fictional absent-minded professor is often a college professor of science or engineering; in the fantasy genre, a similar character may appear as a wizard. Examples of this include the characterisation of Merlin in \"The Sword in the Stone\" (particularly in the Disney adaptation) and Albus Dumbledore in the \"Harry Potter\" series.\n"}
{"id": "3085737", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3085737", "title": "Actio", "text": "Actio\n\nActio is a term in rhetoric that means the delivery that is given to a speech. Hand gestures, voice variation, speaker to audience eye contact, and an engaging manner are all needed for an effective actio.\n\n"}
{"id": "6707395", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6707395", "title": "AquaNox", "text": "AquaNox\n\nAquaNox is a series of submarine-based first-person shooter/simulation video games set in the distant future. The collection includes \"AquaNox\", \"AquaNox 2: Revelation\" and \"AquaNox: The Angel's Tears\". The predecessor and the starter of the series is the MS-DOS title \"Archimedean Dynasty\".\n\nIn the middle of the 22nd century, raw materials on earth became increasingly scarce and as the end of the resources loomed, people began to prospect for resources on the ocean floor. This resulted in the construction of mining stations beneath the Pacific, Atlantic and Indian oceans. Many countries set up these deep-sea stations where workers and engineers extracted the oceans' treasures. Nevertheless, the output was far from enough to cover an ever-increasing demand. When the natural resources on Earth's surface were depleted, a time of destruction and wars began. In the fight over the planet's last remaining resources, alliances fell apart, countries became hostile and old conflicts flared up.\n\nWith increasing cruelty and senselessness, man destroyed the very basis of life on the surface of the earth. After a series of resource wars, nuclear weapons completed the destruction that man had not yet finished with his industrial pollution. When the last glimmer of hope for humanity's survival was extinguished, people fled into the depths of the oceans.\n\nThe former extraction stations became the last refuge of those fortunate enough to be able to pay the price of entry into the underwater world. The poorest of the poor were left behind, condemned to die in a desolate world polluted by radioactivity. Life outside the oceans became impossible as the continents were flooded by rising sea levels and a harsh nuclear winter covered most of the oceans and the shrinking surface landmass of the planet with a layer of radioactive dust, snow and ice many meters thick. A 40-meter thick layer of dead organic matter, the so-called POM layer, covered the oceans. Not a single ray of sunlight penetrated the dense particulate layer that plunged the world into a darkness like none other. Nevertheless, mankind rose one last time to a new life, the only life, in a dead new world. This world was humanity's creation, and was now called Aqua. The following events take place in the middle of the 27th century.\n\nToday, in the year 2661, mankind lives in gigantic cities underwater. Aqua is divided into political power blocs, such as the Aquatoria of the capitalistic, democratically governed Atlantic Federation, the oligarchy of the Arabic Clans Union and the monarchist Russo-Japanese Shogunate. In the South Pacific lies the Tornado Zone, stirred up by surface storms, where an anarchist pack of mercenaries, pirates, buccaneers and outlaws gathers, ever ready to sell their friends and their souls.\n\nA single company has long ago monopolized many industries necessary for human survival underwater—EnTrOx, which stands for \"Energy-Transportation-Oxygen\". New technologies allow extremely fast underwater travel. However, many old technologies are lost or have become useless. For example, due to the high amounts of fallout in the atmosphere, satellite communication and global positioning are impossible, although some organizations are looking for ways to restore these abilities.\n\nThe player's task is to complete a series of story-related combat missions. During the course of the missions additional support and story elements are revealed by the secondary characters. The enemies range from hostile vessels to alien or artificial life-forms such as bionts.\n\nThe Aquanox series include the following games, listed by the release in a chronological order:\n\nThe player once again jumps into the role of Emerald \"Deadeye\" Flint. After the Bionts are defeated, Flint goes back to being a mercenary as a leader of a Biont-hunting task-force. Things turn for the worse when his submarine, the \"Succubus\", is stolen on one of the stations. The game begins with one of Flint's dubious acquaintances giving him an old, barely working sub and several missions to get him started.\n\nThroughout the game, Flint earns money by completing missions, allowing him to purchase better subs, weapons and equipment. The new equipment appears throughout the game, available for purchase, as the player progress in the storyline. Generally speaking, the player is allowed to buy a new boat and a new set of weaponry per chapter. While on stations, Flint can speak with various characters in order to get new missions and deepen the atmosphere of the game.\n\nThe former system of upgrading the vessel with a variety of defensive turrets has been simplified by fixing the player's view to the cockpit as well as permitting the usage of only two on hull installed cannons. As the result of this change, the controls of the submarine have been adapted to the first-person shooter's mouse-based layout, removing the need for the joystick, thus the game has compromised its tactical depth in order to increase the intensity of combat. This change has raised critique among the reviewers, stating that the developers' focus fell inadequately on the visual performance rather than the actual gameplay of its predecessor. \n\nThe game was one of the first applications to fully use the T&L effects by supporting the \"NVIDIA Geforce 3 Ti\" graphics accelerator.\n\nThe game includes a vast amount of \"true\" information on oceans, such as origins of different species, their specifics and man's adaptation to submarine life. The game manual consists of two chapters explaining various terms and facts that have been mentioned throughout the course of the story.\n\nThe plot of the game is based around William Drake, the last remnant of the old aristocratic, industrialist family. After the bankrupt of the familial industry and the death of the protagonist's grandmother, young William Drake sets 'sail' for open seas on the last freighter of the \"Drake Enterprises\". The cargo ship soon gets taken over by a group of mercenaries, while Drake rushes out to answer a distress call. While sparing his life, the group of seven invaders seize control of the boat, thus binding Williams' fate to their own. The protagonist sees no other options than to unite himself with his new crew, hoping for the best.\n\nThe game features a total of four unique, playable and upgradeable gunships. For the completion of the game the player will most likely switch boats depending on the mission's content. While certain missions will require speed and stealth, others will virtually enforce the presence of a heavy arsenal and thick plating. The game features a large variety of projectile armament as well as a set of torpedoes and a collection of energy based weaponry, including lasers and EMP launchers. While most weapons aren't necessarily at odds with the game's underwater environments, the presence of laser-based arms decreases the plausibility of such fights. The torpedo combat is similar to the missile engagements of most flight simulators and space shooters, where the pilot is expected to release flares and perform classic evasion manoeuvres.\n\nThe transportation is generally a simple matter of following the navigation points spread out through the game. The ship's controls can be switched from the FPS mode to Simulation Mode via a predefined shortcut, where the latter steering scheme switches the horizontal scrolling of the mouse from turning the cockpit horizontally to rotating the hull around its axis. Reaching the surface is not possible due to the depth-range limitation, which binds the player to the underwater world yet gives certain disadvantages during the combat.\n\nIn response to criticisms of poor interaction with other characters in AquaNox, a new dialogue system was added in the sequel. Between missions the player is able to initiate conversations while on board of the freighter as well as in the oceanic cities. The initiation of the conversations is mandatory; however due to the absence of interaction during the dialogues, the outcome of the game is not open-ended. The actions and replies of the protagonist often appear irrational and unnatural. \n\nLike William, the other characters in the game do not tend to appear natural by neither showing conscious thought, neither having distinct goals nor developing at all over the period of the adventure. While perhaps being the intention of the playwright, the secondary personages do not show any depth or authenticity, resulting in a group of stereotypic knights, pirates, outcasts and nymphomaniacs. \n\n\"AquaNox: The Angel's Tears\" is the PlayStation 2 remake of \"AquaNox 2: Revelation\". The title did not pass Sony's software quality assurance test and as Massive Development had already been closed by JoWood Productions, the release was cancelled.\n\nAt Gamescom 2014, Nordic Games presented a tech demo of a new iteration from the Aquanox series. The Nordic Games officials confirmed they are working on a new iteration of the game. The demo was created using Unreal Engine 3 and showed a bit of the environment and one ship model prototype along with a hangar interface. The game was successfully crowdfunded through Kickstarter on the 11th of September 2015 by amassing USD 95,979, surpassing its USD 75,000 goal. It is expected to be released sometime in 2018.\n\n"}
{"id": "12388799", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12388799", "title": "Art crime", "text": "Art crime\n\nArt crime may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "30597710", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30597710", "title": "Birmingham Book Club", "text": "Birmingham Book Club\n\nThe Birmingham Book Club, known to its opponents during the 1790s as the Jacobin Club due to its political radicalism, and at times also as the Twelve Apostles, was a book club and debating society based in Birmingham, England from the 18th to the 20th century. During the 18th century Midlands Enlightenment, the Radical and Unitarian allegiance of its members give it a national significance.\n\nLittle is known of the club's origins, but surviving records suggest that it was in existence by 1745. The club met at Freeth's Coffee House at the Leicester Arms on the corner of Bell Street and Lease Lane in Birmingham from at least 1758. John Freeth announced club dinners to its members with rhyming invitations. 24 members were listed in 1775. Liberal and radical, as much concerned with politics as with books, the club formed a focus for local support for John Wilkes between 1768 and 1774, and for opposition to the Ministry of Lord North during the 1770s and 1780s.\n\nThe society held an annual sale of its books, and its members provided the nucleus of subscribers to the Birmingham Library which was founded in 1779.\n\nThe club was still in existence, with twelve members, in 1964.\n\n"}
{"id": "38695419", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38695419", "title": "Black Rock (2012 film)", "text": "Black Rock (2012 film)\n\nBlack Rock is a 2012 American horror-thriller film directed by Katie Aselton, based on a screenplay by her husband Mark Duplass. The film premiered on January 21, 2012, at the 2012 Sundance Film Festival and was released theatrically on May 17, 2013. \"Black Rock\" stars Katie Aselton, Lake Bell, and Kate Bosworth as three friends that reunite after years apart on a remote island, only for them to have to fight for their lives.\n\nSarah (Kate Bosworth) invites her childhood friends, Abby (Katie Aselton) and Lou (Lake Bell), to a remote island that they once spent time at in their youth, in hopes of bringing their distant group back together. Though Abby and Lou are reluctant, they go with Sarah to the island. While there, they use a hand drawn map to try to find a time capsule they had buried as kids. They give up after Abby picks a fight with Lou over Lou having slept with her boyfriend years ago, something Abby has never gotten over and which ruined their friendship.\n\nOn their first night while camping on the beach, they run into Henry (Will Bouvier), Derek (Jay Paulson) and Alex (Anslem Richardson), three veteran soldiers who are hunting on the island. Lou recognizes Henry as the younger brother of a former classmate and Abby invites the three to camp with them. While drunk, Abby flirts with Henry and eventually takes him into the woods to make out. When she tries to stop, Henry becomes aggressive and tries to rape her. Abby hits him in the head with a large rock.\n\nHearing Abby's screams, the rest of the group come running and find Henry dead. Abby tries to explain what happened but the men don't believe her and become enraged that she's murdered their best friend. Derek and Alex knock the three women unconscious. When they wake, they are tied together by the wrists on the beach. Derek, the more aggressive of the two men, is adamant about killing them, but Alex tries to stop him. Abby goads Derek into letting her go so they can fight hand-to-hand. When he does, Lou tackles him as Sarah throws sand at Alex's face to prevent him from attacking. The three women then separately escape and hide, and the two men vow to kill them.\n\nAfter hiding separately, they meet up at a childhood fort and decide to wait until nightfall before trying to reach their boat. Upon doing so, they discover the two men have cut the rope that tied the boat to the shore, sending it floating out to sea. Abby and Lou both believe they could swim it but Sarah believes it's too far and that they'd die from hypothermia before reaching it. As they crawl towards the shore, Sarah loudly protests the plan and runs back towards the tree line where she is shot in the head, by the men. Lou and Abby try to swim for the boat but cannot make it, instead heading back to another part of shore. Alex falls down a hill while chasing them and breaks his leg. Lou and Abby return to the fort and huddle together for warmth. They vow to \"stop being stalked and start stalking.\"\nIn the morning, they find the time capsule and retrieve a Swiss army knife from inside. They sharpen sticks into weapons. As they do, they talk about the past and reconcile. They search the island and find the hunters camping on the beach, with an injured Alex sleeping nearby. Abby crawls over to Alex, prepared to slit his throat. However, she accidentally wakes him and he cries out for Derek. Lou runs at Derek, distracting him and Abby wrestles with Alex, eventually shooting him with his own shotgun. Derek chases Lou and Abby finally cornering them in an open field. He fires his gun, but realizes he has run out of bullets. He draws his hunting knife and the two women attack him from opposite directions. They fight, with a wounded Lou eventually slitting Derek's throat with his knife. Lou and Abby take the men's boat and sail back to civilization.\n\n\nKatie Aselton began developing the film in 2011, expressing her interest in directing a thriller that audiences would see as realistic. Mark Duplass was confirmed as writing the screenplay and the couple sought to raise funds for the film through crowdsourcing on Kickstarter. Kate Bosworth and Lake Bell were signed to \"Black Rock\" to play Sarah and Lou, with Submarine Entertainment handling sales.\n\nCritical reception for the film has been mixed. On review aggregation website Rotten Tomatoes it has an approval rating of 48% based on reviews from 54 critics. On Metacritic it has a weighted average score of 46% based on reviews from 19 critics, indicating \"mixed or average reviews\".\n\nA reviewer for Bloody Disgusting gave the film three out of five stars, questioning the intelligence of the female characters over what he saw as \"stupid choices\" and \"lack of character logic\". Justin Lowe of The Hollywood Reporter gave a mixed review, commenting that although the film was \"satisfying\", the film's female characters \"hew perhaps too closely to genre stereotypes\".\n\nAlyssa Rosenberg of Think Progress praised the film, saying \"There’s something really powerful about the promise of a piece of popular culture that insists that a woman has the right to say no at any point in a sexual encounter, no matter how flirtatious she’s been or how willing she’s seemed up until that point, and that she has the right to say no without being judged or attacked.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "1182550", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1182550", "title": "Bottle opener", "text": "Bottle opener\n\nA bottle opener is a device that enables the removal of metal bottle caps from bottles. More generally, it might be thought to include corkscrews used to remove cork or plastic stoppers from wine bottles.\n\nA metal bottle cap is affixed to the rim of the neck of a bottle by being pleated or ruffled around the rim. A bottle opener is a specialized lever inserted beneath the pleated metalwork, which uses a point on the bottle cap as a fulcrum on which to pivot.\n\nThere are several distinct designs of such bottle openers. Wall mounted openers are typically found behind bars in pubs, whilst hand-tool bottle openers tend to be found and used in domestic environments. Whereas the functional elements of bottle openers (a tooth or lip to catch the underside of the cap, a fulcrum across which to exert the force that will remove the cap, and usually a lever for mechanical advantage) tend to be consistent (sometimes the lever is the bottle itself), their aesthetic design is subject to very great variety, and a great many decorative types are available.\n\nThe following varieties of bottle opener are used around the world used in a professional capacity.\n\nA specific style of bottle opener is known as a churchkey.\n\nInvented at the same time as the crown cork, it is the original bottle opener. But as well as being portable it also comes as a fixed device to be attached to vertical surfaces, often with a tray to catch the bottle tops. It does not open wine bottles. It is class 2 fulcrum type.\n\nA simple opener is a piece of metal with a rectangular or rounded opening in one end and a solid handle large enough to be gripped between the thumb and forefingers on the other. The opening contains a lip that is placed under the edge of the bottle top, pulling it off when upward force is applied to the handle end of the opener. This type of opener is small and durable, so it is frequently used as a key fob. \n\nThe speed opener is a flat blade of steel approximately 4 cm wide and 16 cm long with a thumb hole at one end and a letterbox cut at the other to remove the crown seals from a bottle. They go under the names 'speed opener', 'popper', 'mamba', ‘bar key’, and most popularly 'bar blade'. The thumb hole may be used to pull bottles out of ice, by placing the hole over the neck of the bottle, then lifting it. The speed opener is widely used by professional bartenders in Canada, the United States, and the UK. Carried in the pocket or against the body or on a zip string, it is both convenient and fast for the modern bartender. It is advantageous in that it is easy to open several bottles in rapid succession, and with more flair than other types of bottle opener. Consequently, 'bar blading' is often part of bar flair routines.\n\nWorks the same as the lever variation, except that it is attached to the wall, to allow for simpler bottle-opening, which can be done with one hand. The bottle cap can fall into a bottle cap catcher mounted below the opener, or you can retrieve it after removal from the bottle. \nA variant to this are similar types of openers mounted on older vending machines.\n\nThis is a bottle opener with a magnet to catch the lids. \n\nAlso known as a Beverage Opener, these usually includes a bottle opener of the simple bottle opener style but includes various other openers such as for plastic bottles or metal beverage cans.\n\nIn recent years the bottle opener has taken many forms to appeal to young professionals. A few examples of the designer bottle opener include a surfboard shaped bottle opener, baseball cap with bottle opener in the visor, the inclusion of a bottle opener in the sole of a flip flop, in the form of a ring that can be worn, as part of a belt buckle, or in the different shapes for sports, a guitar, cowboy boot or car key. Recent improvements come with the invent of High Definition graphics with epoxy dome on chrome plated versions of the bottle opener. Novelty bottle openers became a popular promotional product for many beer brands with the advent of the surfboard bottle opener by Jim Wysopal from Openers Plus in California 1990.\n\nUnder most use, a bottle opener functions as a second-class lever: the fulcrum is the far end of the bottle opener, placed on the top of the crown, with the output at the near end of the bottle opener, on the crown edge, \"between\" the fulcrum and the hand: in these cases, one pushes \"up\" on the lever.\n\nHowever, one may instead use it as a first-class lever, by placing the near end on the top of the crown, and the far end under the crown edge, then pushing \"down\" on the lever (thus the output is on the \"opposite side\" of the fulcrum from the hand). This is particularly used with bar blades, which form an obtuse angle. Mechanically, this is a marginally less effective lever, as the effort arm is shorter, but the action of pushing down is marginally anatomically easier.\n\nWhile most lever-type bottle openers can be used in either configuration, the designed use can be determined if one of the edges is curved, in which case this edge is designed to sit in the middle of the crown, as the curve concentrates pressure, deforming the crown, and a curved edge does not connect with as much of the crown edge, hence being suboptimal and slipping more frequently if used to connect with the crown edge. This difference can be seen in comparing the traditional opener and contemporary bar blade at right.\n\nThe 'waiter's friend or 'wine key' consists of a flat housing (often plastic covered) similar to a Swiss army knife with a corkscrew and lever (which doubles as crown cork opener) with either a knife or auto-foiler to remove the foil top of wine bottles and then the cork. Designed to be screwed in to within 1 full rotation before the end of the screw (more will pierce the bottom of the cork and result in extra flotsam on the surface of your wine) before levering out the cork.\n\nThis tool is used by businesses that need to open a large volume of wine efficiently and without waste or breakage. It is a large brass tubular device, fixed at a 45° angle to the bar, with a lever pivoted halfway and extending towards the user. The bottle's neck is inserted firmly in the lower aperture of the tube and the lever pulled down firmly and steadily to the bottom. This drives a corkscrew into the cork at a regular depth each time. When the lever is returned to its original position it extracts the cork. When the bottle is removed pull the lever to expose the cork at the bottom, it loosens the cork and returns the lever firmly to its starting position, whereupon the cork will then fall out.\n\nThe twin prong cork puller, also called the Butler's Friend, is shaped like a large key with a squared oval handle about 5 cm × 8 cm, and two thin metal strips, approximately 10 cm long, 5 mm wide, and 0.5 mm thick, descending in tandem from the center of the handle. The two strips are spread open and then wiggled into the space between the cork and the bottle on either side. Once fully in place, a turn and pull of the handle causes friction to turn the cork and pull it out of the bottle.\n\n"}
{"id": "1780511", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1780511", "title": "Capri pants", "text": "Capri pants\n\nCapri pants (also known as three quarter pants, capris, crop pants, clam-diggers, flood pants, jams, highwaters, or toreador pants) are pants that are longer than shorts but are not as long as trousers. They typically come down to between knee and calf or ankle length. Capris are popular with people in many countries; especially in the United States, Europe, Latin America, and Asia.\n\nCapri pants were introduced by fashion designer Sonja de Lennart in 1948, and were also popularised by English couturier Bunny Roger. The name of the pants is derived from the Italian isle of Capri, where they rose to popularity in the late 1950s and early '60s. The American actress Audrey Hepburn was among the first movie stars who wore capris, most notably in the film Roman Holiday, and the pants quickly became synonymous with her classic style.\n\nCapris' acceptance in the United States was influenced by the 1960s television series \"The Dick Van Dyke Show\". The character Laura Petrie, the young housewife played by Mary Tyler Moore, caused a fashion sensation – and some mild controversy – by wearing snug-fitting capri pants during the show's run. By the mid 1960s, capri-style tight-fitting cargo pants became popular among teenage boys; a good example was the superstar teen actor of that era, Luke Halpin, who wore them in some episodes of the popular \"Flipper\". After a drop in popularity during the 1970s through the 1990s, capris returned to favor in the mid 2000s. Spanish tennis player Rafael Nadal wore capri pants in the majority of his matches before 2009.\n\n\nNotes\n"}
{"id": "6668778", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6668778", "title": "Classical music", "text": "Classical music\n\nClassical music is art music produced or rooted in the traditions of Western culture, including both liturgical (religious) and secular music. While a more precise term is also used to refer to the period from 1750 to 1820 (the Classical period), this article is about the broad span of time from before the 6th century AD to the present day, which includes the Classical period and various other periods. The central norms of this tradition became codified between 1550 and 1900, which is known as the common-practice period. The major time divisions of Western art music are as follows:\n\nEuropean art music is largely distinguished from many other non-European classical and some popular musical forms by its system of staff notation, in use since about the 11th century. Catholic monks developed the first forms of modern European musical notation in order to standardize liturgy throughout the worldwide Church. Western staff notation is used by composers to indicate to the performer the pitches (which form the melodies, basslines and chords), tempo, metre and rhythms for a piece of music. This can leave less room for practices such as improvisation and \"ad libitum\" ornamentation, which are frequently heard in non-European art music and in popular-music styles such as jazz and blues. Another difference is that whereas most popular styles adopt the song (strophic) form or a derivation of this form, classical music has been noted for its development of highly sophisticated forms of instrumental music such as the symphony, concerto, fugue, sonata, and mixed vocal and instrumental styles such as opera, cantata, and mass.\n\nThe term \"classical music\" did not appear until the early 19th century, in an attempt to distinctly canonize the period from Johann Sebastian Bach to Ludwig van Beethoven as a golden age. The earliest reference to \"classical music\" recorded by the \"Oxford English Dictionary\" is from about 1829.\n\nGiven the wide range of styles in European classical music, from Medieval plainchant sung by monks to Classical and Romantic symphonies for orchestra from the 1700s and 1800s to avant-garde atonal compositions for solo piano from the 1900s, it is difficult to list characteristics that can be attributed to all works of that type. However, there are characteristics that classical music contains that few or no other genres of music contain, such as the use of music notation and the performance of complex forms of solo instrumental works (e.g., the fugue). Furthermore, while the symphony did not exist prior to the late 18th century, the symphony ensemble—and the works written for it—have become a defining feature of classical music.\n\nThe key characteristic of European classical music that distinguishes it from popular music and folk music is that the repertoire tends to be written down in musical notation, creating a musical part or score. This score typically determines details of rhythm, pitch, and, where two or more musicians (whether singers or instrumentalists) are involved, how the various parts are coordinated. The written quality of the music has enabled a high level of complexity within them: fugues, for instance, achieve a remarkable marriage of boldly distinctive melodic lines weaving in counterpoint yet creating a coherent harmonic logic that would be difficult to achieve in the heat of live improvisation. The use of written notation also preserves a record of the works and enables Classical musicians to perform music from many centuries ago. Musical notation enables 2000s-era performers to sing a choral work from the 1300s Renaissance era or a 1700s Baroque concerto with many of the features of the music (the melodies, lyrics, forms, and rhythms) being reproduced.\n\nThat said, the score does allow the interpreter to make choices on how to perform a historical work. For example, if the tempo is written with an Italian instruction (e.g., Allegro), it is not known exactly how fast the piece should be played. As well, in the Baroque era, many works that were designed for basso continuo accompaniment do not specify which instruments should play the accompaniment or exactly how the chordal instrument (harpsichord, lute, etc.) should play the chords, which are not notated in the part (only a figured bass symbol in the bass part is used to guide the chord-playing performer). The performer and the conductor have a range of options for musical expression and interpretation of a scored piece, including the phrasing of melodies, the time taken during fermatas (held notes) or pauses, and the use (or choice not to use) of effects such as vibrato or glissando (these effects are possible on various stringed, brass and woodwind instruments and with the human voice).\n\nAlthough Classical music in the 2000s has lost most of its tradition for musical improvisation, from the Baroque era to the Romantic era, there are examples of performers who could improvise in the style of their era. In the Baroque era, organ performers would improvise preludes, keyboard performers playing harpsichord would improvise chords from the figured bass symbols beneath the bass notes of the basso continuo part and both vocal and instrumental performers would improvise musical ornaments. Johann Sebastian Bach was particularly noted for his complex improvisations. During the Classical era, the composer-performer Mozart was noted for his ability to improvise melodies in different styles. During the Classical era, some virtuoso soloists would improvise the cadenza sections of a concerto. During the Romantic era, Beethoven would improvise at the piano. For more information, see Improvisation.\n\nThe instruments currently used in most classical music were largely invented before the mid-19th century (often much earlier) and systematised in the 18th and 19th centuries. They consist of the instruments found in an orchestra or in a concert band, together with several other solo instruments (such as the piano, harpsichord, and organ). The symphony orchestra is the most widely known medium for classical music and includes members of the string, woodwind, brass, and percussion families of instruments. The concert band consists of members of the woodwind, brass, and percussion families. It generally has a larger variety and number of woodwind and brass instruments than the orchestra but does not have a string section. However, many concert bands use a double bass. The vocal practices changed over the classical period, from the single line monophonic Gregorian chant done by monks in the Medieval period to the complex, polyphonic choral works of the Renaissance and subsequent periods, which used multiple independent vocal melodies at the same time.\n\nMany of the instruments used to perform medieval music still exist, but in different forms. Medieval instruments included the flute, the recorder and plucked string instruments like the lute. As well, early versions of the organ and fiddle (or vielle) existed. Medieval instruments in Europe had most commonly been used singly, often self accompanied with a drone note, or occasionally in parts. From at least as early as the 13th century through the 15th century there was a division of instruments into \"haut\" (loud, shrill, outdoor instruments) and \"bas\" (quieter, more intimate instruments). During the earlier medieval period, the vocal music from the liturgical genre, predominantly Gregorian chant, was monophonic, using a single, unaccompanied vocal melody line. Polyphonic vocal genres, which used multiple independent vocal melodies, began to develop during the high medieval era, becoming prevalent by the later 13th and early 14th century.\n\nMany instruments originated during the Renaissance; others were variations of, or improvements upon, instruments that had existed previously. Some have survived to the present day; others have disappeared, only to be re-created in order to perform music on period instruments. As in the modern day, instruments may be classified as brass, strings, percussion, and woodwind. Brass instruments in the Renaissance were traditionally played by professionals who were members of Guilds and they included the slide trumpet, the wooden cornet, the valveless trumpet and the sackbut. Stringed instruments included the viol, the rebec, the harp-like lyre, the hurdy-gurdy, the lute, the guitar, the cittern, the bandora, and the orpharion. Keyboard instruments with strings included the harpsichord and the virginals. Percussion instruments include the triangle, the Jew's harp, the tambourine, the bells, the rumble-pot, and various kinds of drums. Woodwind instruments included the double reed shawm, the reed pipe, the bagpipe, the transverse flute, the recorder, the dulcian, and the crumhorn. Vocal music in the Renaissance is noted for the flourishing of an increasingly elaborate polyphonic style. The principal liturgical forms which endured throughout the entire Renaissance period were masses and motets, with some other developments towards the end, especially as composers of sacred music began to adopt secular forms (such as the madrigal) for their own designs. Towards the end of the period, the early dramatic precursors of opera such as monody, the madrigal comedy, and the intermedio are seen. Around 1597, Italian composer Jacopo Peri wrote \"Dafne\", the first work to be called an opera today. He also composed Euridice, the first opera to have survived to the present day.\n\nBaroque instruments included some instruments from the earlier periods (e.g., the hurdy-gurdy and recorder) and a number of new instruments (e.g, the oboe, bassoon, cello, contrabass and fortepiano). Some instruments from previous eras fell into disuse, such as the shawm and the wooden cornet. The key Baroque instruments for strings included the violin, viol, viola, viola d'amore, cello, contrabass, lute, theorbo (which often played the basso continuo parts), mandolin, cittern, Baroque guitar, harp and hurdy-gurdy. Woodwinds included the Baroque flute, Baroque oboe, rackett, recorder and the bassoon. Brass instruments included the cornett, natural horn, Baroque trumpet, serpent and the trombone. Keyboard instruments included the clavichord, the harpsichord, the pipe organ, and, later in the period, the fortepiano (an early version of the piano). Percussion instruments included the timpani, snare drum, tambourine and the castanets.\n\nOne major difference between Baroque music and the classical era that followed it is that the types of instruments used in Baroque ensembles were much less standardized. Whereas a classical era string quartet consists almost exclusively of two violins, a viola and a cello, a Baroque or Classical-era group accompanying a soloist or opera could include one of several different types of keyboard instruments (e.g., pipe organ, harpsichord, or clavichord), additional stringed chordal instruments (e.g., a lute) and an unspecified number of bass instruments performing the basso continuo, including bowed strings, woodwinds and brass instruments (e.g., a cello, contrabass, viol, bassoon, serpent, etc.).\n\nVocal developments in the Baroque era included the development of opera types such as opera seria and opéra comique, and related forms such as oratorios and cantatas.\n\nThe term \"classical music\" has two meanings: the broader meaning includes all Western art music from the Medieval era to the 2000s, and the specific meaning refers to the art music from the 1750s to the early 1820s—the period of Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart, Joseph Haydn, and Ludwig van Beethoven. This section is about the more specific meaning. Classical era musicians continued to use many of instruments from the Baroque era, such as the cello, contrabass, recorder, trombone, timpani, fortepiano (the precursor to the modern piano) and organ. While some Baroque instruments fell into disuse (e.g., the theorbo and rackett), many Baroque instruments were changed into the versions that are still in use today, such as the Baroque violin (which became the violin), the Baroque oboe (which became the oboe) and the Baroque trumpet, which transitioned to the regular valved trumpet. During the Classical era, the stringed instruments used in orchestra and chamber music such as string quartets were standardized as the four instruments which form the string section of the orchestra: the violin, viola, cello and double bass. Baroque-era stringed instruments such as fretted, bowed viols were phased out. Woodwinds included the basset clarinet, basset horn, clarinette d'amour, the Classical clarinet, the chalumeau, the flute, oboe and bassoon. Keyboard instruments included the clavichord and the fortepiano. While the harpsichord was still used in basso continuo accompaniment in the 1750s and 1760s, it fell out of use in the end of the century. Brass instruments included the buccin, the ophicleide (a replacement for the bass serpent, which was the precursor of the tuba) and the natural horn.\n\nIn the Romantic era, the modern piano, with a more powerful, sustained tone and a wider range took over from the more delicate-sounding fortepiano. In the orchestra, the existing Classical instruments and sections were retained (string section, woodwinds, brass and percussion), but these sections were typically expanded to make a fuller, bigger sound. For example, while a Baroque orchestra may have had two double bass players, a Romantic orchestra could have as many as ten. \"As music grew more expressive, the standard orchestral palette just wasn't rich enough for many Romantic composers.\" New woodwind instruments were added, such as the contrabassoon, bass clarinet and piccolo and new percussion instruments were added, including xylophones, snare drums, celestas (a bell-like keyboard instrument), bells, and triangles, large orchestral harps, and even wind machines for sound effects. Saxophones appear in some scores from the late 19th century onwards. While appearing only as featured solo instruments in some works, for example Maurice Ravel's orchestration of Modest Mussorgsky's \"Pictures at an Exhibition\" and Sergei Rachmaninoff's \"Symphonic Dances\", the saxophone is included in other works, such as Ravel's \"Boléro\", Sergei Prokofiev's Romeo and Juliet Suites 1 and 2 and many other works as a member of the orchestral ensemble. The euphonium is featured in a few late Romantic and 20th-century works, usually playing parts marked \"tenor tuba\", including Gustav Holst's \"The Planets\", and Richard Strauss's \"Ein Heldenleben\".\n\nThe Wagner tuba, a modified member of the horn family, appears in Richard Wagner's cycle \"Der Ring des Nibelungen\" and several other works by Strauss, Béla Bartók, and others; it has a prominent role in Anton Bruckner's Symphony No. 7 in E Major. Cornets appear in Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky's ballet \"Swan Lake\", Claude Debussy's \"La mer\", and several orchestral works by Hector Berlioz. Unless these instruments are played by members doubling on another instrument (for example, a trombone player changing to euphonium for a certain passage), orchestras will use freelance musicians to augment their regular rosters.\n\nModernism in music is a philosophical and aesthetic stance underlying the period of change and development in musical language that occurred from 1890 to 1930, a period of diverse reactions in challenging and reinterpreting older categories of music, innovations that lead to new ways of organizing and approaching harmonic, melodic, sonic, and rhythmic aspects of music, and changes in aesthetic worldviews in close relation to the larger identifiable period of modernism in the arts of the time. The operative word most associated with it is \"innovation\". Its leading feature is a \"linguistic plurality\", which is to say that no single music genre ever assumed a dominant position.\n\nContemporary classical music is the period that came into prominence in the mid-1970s. It includes different variations of modernist, postmodern, neoromantic, and pluralist music. However, the term may also be employed in a broader sense to refer to all post-1945 musical forms.\n\nPostmodern music is a period of music that began around 1930. It shares characteristics with postmodernist art – that is, art that comes after and reacts against modernism.\n\nMany instruments that in the 2010s are associated with popular music filled important roles in early music, such as bagpipes, theorbos, vihuelas, hurdy-gurdies (hand-cranked string instruments), accordions, alphorns, hydraulises, calliopes, sistrums, and some woodwind instruments such as tin whistles, panpipes, shawms and crumhorns. On the other hand, instruments such as the acoustic guitar, once associated mainly with popular music, gained prominence in classical music in the 19th and 20th centuries in the form of the classical guitar and banjo. While equal temperament gradually became accepted as the dominant musical temperament during the 19th century, different historical temperaments are often used for music from earlier periods. For instance, music of the English Renaissance is often performed in meantone temperament. As well, while professional orchestras and pop bands all around the world have tuned to an A fixed at 440 Hz since the late 19th century, there was historically a great variety in the tuning pitch, as attested to in historical pipe organs that still exist.\n\nPerformers who have studied classical music extensively are said to be \"classically trained\". This training may come from private lessons from instrument or voice teachers or from completion of a formal program offered by a Conservatory, college or university, such as a Bachelor of Music or Master of Music degree (which includes individual lessons from professors). In classical music, \"...extensive formal music education and training, often to postgraduate [Master's degree] level\" is required.\n\nPerformance of classical music repertoire requires a proficiency in sight-reading and ensemble playing, harmonic principles, strong ear training (to correct and adjust pitches by ear), knowledge of performance practice (e.g., Baroque ornamentation), and a familiarity with the style/musical idiom expected for a given composer or musical work (e.g., a Brahms symphony or a Mozart concerto).\n\nSome \"popular\" genre musicians have had significant classical training, such as Billy Joel, Elton John, the Van Halen brothers, Randy Rhoads, Ritchie Blackmore, and Dream Theater members. Moreover, formal training is not unique to the classical genre. Many rock and pop musicians have completed degrees in commercial music programs such as those offered by the Berklee College of Music and many jazz musicians have completed degrees in music from universities with jazz programs, such as the Manhattan School of Music and McGill University.\n\nHistorically, major professional orchestras have been mostly or entirely composed of musicians who are men. Some of the earliest cases of women being hired in professional orchestras was in the position of harpist. The Vienna Philharmonic, for example, did not accept women to permanent membership until 1997, far later than the other orchestras ranked among the world's top five by \"Gramophone\" in 2008. The last major orchestra to appoint a woman to a permanent position was the Berlin Philharmonic. As late as February 1996, the Vienna Philharmonic's principal flute, Dieter Flury, told \"Westdeutscher Rundfunk\" that accepting women would be \"gambling with the emotional unity () that this organism currently has\". In April 1996, the orchestra's press secretary wrote that \"compensating for the expected leaves of absence\" of maternity leave would be a problem.\n\nIn 1997, the Vienna Philharmonic was \"facing protests during a [US] tour\" by the National Organization for Women and the International Alliance for Women in Music. Finally, \"after being held up to increasing ridicule even in socially conservative Austria, members of the orchestra gathered [on 28 February 1997] in an extraordinary meeting on the eve of their departure and agreed to admit a woman, Anna Lelkes, as harpist.\" As of 2013, the orchestra has six female members; one of them, violinist Albena Danailova became one of the orchestra's concertmasters in 2008, the first woman to hold that position. In 2012, women still made up just 6% of the orchestra's membership. VPO president Clemens Hellsberg said the VPO now uses completely screened blind auditions.\n\nIn 2013, an article in \"Mother Jones\" stated that while \"[m]any prestigious orchestras have significant female membership—women outnumber men in the New York Philharmonic's violin section—and several renowned ensembles, including the National Symphony Orchestra, the Detroit Symphony, and the Minnesota Symphony, are led by women violinists\", the double bass, brass, and percussion sections of major orchestras \"...are still predominantly male.\" A 2014 BBC article stated that the \"...introduction of 'blind' auditions, where a prospective instrumentalist performs behind a screen so that the judging panel can exercise no gender or racial prejudice, has seen the gender balance of traditionally male-dominated symphony orchestras gradually shift.\"\n\nWorks of classical repertoire often exhibit complexity in their use of orchestration, counterpoint, harmony, musical development, rhythm, phrasing, texture, and form. Whereas most popular styles are usually written in song form, classical music is noted for its development of highly sophisticated instrumental musical forms, like the concerto, symphony and sonata. Classical music is also noted for its use of sophisticated vocal/instrumental forms, such as opera. In opera, vocal soloists and choirs perform staged dramatic works with an orchestra providing accompaniment. Longer instrumental works are often divided into self-contained pieces, called movements, often with contrasting characters or moods. For instance, symphonies written during the Classical period are usually divided into four movements: (1) an opening Allegro in sonata form, (2) a slow movement, (3) a minuet or scherzo (in a triple metre, such as 3/4), and (4) a final Allegro. These movements can then be further broken down into a hierarchy of smaller units: first sections, then periods, and finally phrases.\n\nThe major time divisions of classical music up to 1900 are the Early music period, which includes Medieval (500–1400) and Renaissance (1400–1600) eras, and the Common practice period, which includes the Baroque (1600–1750), Classical (1750–1820) and Romantic (1810–1910) eras.} The current period encompasses the 20th century (1901–2000) and includes most of the Early modern musical era (1890–1930), the entire High modern (mid 20th-century), and the first part of the Contemporary (1945 or 1975–current) or Postmodern musical era (1930–current). The 21st century has so far been a continuation of the same period and the same Contemporary/Postmodern musical era which both began mostly in the 20th-century.\n\nThe dates are generalizations, since the periods and eras overlap and the categories are somewhat arbitrary, to the point that some authorities reverse terminologies and refer to a common practice \"era\" comprising baroque, classical, and romantic \"periods\". For example, the use of counterpoint and fugue, which is considered characteristic of the Baroque era (or period), was continued by Haydn, who is classified as typical of the Classical era. Beethoven, who is often described as a founder of the Romantic era, and Brahms, who is classified as Romantic, also used counterpoint and fugue, but the romantic and sometimes yearning qualities of their music define their era.\n\nThe prefix \"neo-\" is used to describe a 19th-, 20th-, or 21st-century composition written in the style of an earlier era, such as Classical or Romantic. Stravinsky's \"Pulcinella\", for example, is a neoclassical composition because it is stylistically similar to works of the Baroque era.\n\nBurgh (2006), suggests that the roots of Western classical music ultimately lie in ancient Egyptian art music via cheironomy and the ancient Egyptian orchestra, which dates to 2695 BC. The development of individual tones and scales was made by ancient Greeks such as Aristoxenus and Pythagoras. Pythagoras created a tuning system and helped to codify musical notation. Ancient Greek instruments such as the aulos (a reed instrument) and the lyre (a stringed instrument similar to a small harp) eventually led to the modern-day instruments of a classical orchestra. The antecedent to the early period was the era of ancient music before the fall of the Roman Empire (476 AD).\n\nThe Medieval period includes music from after the fall of Rome to about 1400. Monophonic chant, also called plainsong or Gregorian chant, was the dominant form until about 1100. Catholic monks developed the first forms of modern European musical notation in order to standardize liturgy throughout the worldwide Church. Polyphonic (multi-voiced) music developed from monophonic chant throughout the late Middle Ages and into the Renaissance, including the more complex voicings of motets. The Renaissance era was from 1400 to 1600. It was characterized by greater use of instrumentation, multiple interweaving melodic lines, and the use of the first bass instruments. Social dancing became more widespread, so musical forms appropriate to accompanying dance began to standardize. It is in this time that the notation of music on a staff and other elements of musical notation began to take shape. This invention made possible the separation of the composition of a piece of music from its \"transmission\"; without written music, transmission was oral, and subject to change every time it was transmitted. With a musical score, a work of music could be performed without the composer's presence. The invention of the movable-type printing press in the 15th century had far-reaching consequences on the preservation and transmission of music.\n\nTypical stringed instruments of the early period include the harp, lute, vielle, and psaltery, while wind instruments included the flute family (including recorder), shawm (an early member of the oboe family), trumpet, and the bagpipes. Simple pipe organs existed, but were largely confined to churches, although there were portable varieties. Later in the period, early versions of keyboard instruments like the clavichord and harpsichord began to appear. Stringed instruments such as the viol had emerged by the 16th century, as had a wider variety of brass and reed instruments. Printing enabled the standardization of descriptions and specifications of instruments, as well as instruction in their use.\n\nNotable Medieval composers include Hildegard of Bingen, Guillaume de Machaut, Léonin, Pérotin, Philippe de Vitry, Francesco Landini, and Johannes Ciconia.\n\nNotable Renaissance composers include Josquin des Prez, Giovanni Pierluigi da Palestrina, John Dunstaple, Johannes Ockeghem, Orlande de Lassus, Guillaume Du Fay, Gilles Binchois, Thomas Tallis, William Byrd, Giovanni Gabrieli, Carlo Gesualdo, John Dowland, Jacob Obrecht, Adrian Willaert, Jacques Arcadelt, and Cipriano de Rore.\n\nThe common practice period is usually defined as the era between the formation and the dissolution of the hegemony of common-practice tonality. The term usually spans roughly two-and-a-half centuries, encompassing the Baroque, Classical, and Romantic periods.\n\nBaroque music is characterized by the use of complex tonal counterpoint and the use of a basso continuo, a continuous bass line. Music became more complex in comparison with the simple songs of all previous periods. The beginnings of the sonata form took shape in the canzona, as did a more formalized notion of theme and variations. The tonalities of major and minor as means for managing dissonance and chromaticism in music took full shape.\n\nDuring the Baroque era, keyboard music played on the harpsichord and pipe organ became increasingly popular, and the violin family of stringed instruments took the form generally seen today. Opera as a staged musical drama began to differentiate itself from earlier musical and dramatic forms, and vocal forms like the cantata and oratorio became more common. Vocalists for the first time began adding extra notes to the music. Instrumental ensembles began to distinguish and standardize by size, giving rise to the early orchestra for larger ensembles, with chamber music being written for smaller groups of instruments where parts are played by individual (instead of massed) instruments. The concerto as a vehicle for solo performance accompanied by an orchestra became widespread.\n\nThe theories surrounding equal temperament began to be put in wider practice, especially as it enabled a wider range of chromatic possibilities in hard-to-tune keyboard instruments. Although Bach did not use equal temperament, as a modern piano is generally tuned, changes in the temperaments from the meantone system, common at the time, to various temperaments that made modulation between all keys musically acceptable, made possible Bach's \"Well-Tempered Clavier\".\n\nImportant composers of this era include Johann Sebastian Bach, Antonio Vivaldi, George Frideric Handel, Henry Purcell, Claudio Monteverdi, Domenico Scarlatti, Georg Philipp Telemann, Arcangelo Corelli, Alessandro Scarlatti, Jean-Philippe Rameau, Jean-Baptiste Lully, and Heinrich Schütz.\n\nThe Classical era, from about 1750 to 1820, established many of the norms of composition, presentation, and style, and was also when the piano became the predominant keyboard instrument. The \"basic\" forces required for an orchestra became somewhat standardized (although they would grow as the potential of a wider array of instruments was developed in the following centuries). Chamber music grew to include ensembles with as many as 8 to 10 performers for serenades. Opera continued to develop, with regional styles in Italy, France, and German-speaking lands. The \"opera buffa\", a form of comic opera, rose in popularity. The symphony came into its own as a musical form, and the concerto was developed as a vehicle for displays of virtuoso playing skill. Orchestras no longer required a harpsichord (which had been part of the traditional \"continuo\" in the Baroque style), and were often led by the lead violinist (now called the concertmaster).\n\nWind instruments became more refined in the Classical era. While double-reed instruments like the oboe and bassoon became somewhat standardized in the Baroque, the clarinet family of single reeds was not widely used until Mozart expanded its role in orchestral, chamber, and concerto settings.\n\nMajor composers of this period include Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart, Ludwig van Beethoven, Joseph Haydn, Christoph Willibald Gluck, Johann Christian Bach, Luigi Boccherini, Carl Philipp Emanuel Bach, Muzio Clementi, Antonio Salieri, and Johann Nepomuk Hummel.\n\nThe music of the Romantic era, from roughly the first decade of the 19th century to the early 20th century, was characterized by increased attention to an extended melodic line, as well as expressive and emotional elements, paralleling romanticism in other art forms. Musical forms began to break from the Classical era forms (even as those were being codified), with free-form pieces like nocturnes, fantasias, and preludes being written where accepted ideas about the exposition and development of themes were ignored or minimized. The music became more chromatic, dissonant, and tonally colorful, with tensions (with respect to accepted norms of the older forms) about key signatures increasing. The art song (or \"Lied\") came to maturity in this era, as did the epic scales of grand opera, ultimately transcended by Richard Wagner's Ring cycle.\n\nIn the 19th century, musical institutions emerged from the control of wealthy patrons, as composers and musicians could construct lives independent of the nobility. Increasing interest in music by the growing middle classes throughout western Europe spurred the creation of organizations for the teaching, performance, and preservation of music. The piano, which achieved its modern construction in this era (in part due to industrial advances in metallurgy) became widely popular with the middle class, whose demands for the instrument spurred a large number of piano builders. Many symphony orchestras date their founding to this era. Some musicians and composers were the stars of the day; some, like Franz Liszt and Niccolò Paganini, fulfilled both roles.\n\nThe family of instruments used, especially in orchestras, grew. A wider array of percussion instruments began to appear. Brass instruments took on larger roles, as the introduction of rotary valves made it possible for them to play a wider range of notes. The size of the orchestra (typically around 40 in the Classical era) grew to be over 100. Gustav Mahler's 1906 Symphony No. 8, for example, has been performed with over 150 instrumentalists and choirs of over 400.\n\nEuropean cultural ideas and institutions began to follow colonial expansion into other parts of the world. There was also a rise, especially toward the end of the era, of nationalism in music (echoing, in some cases, political sentiments of the time), as composers such as Edvard Grieg, Nikolai Rimsky-Korsakov, and Antonín Dvořák echoed traditional music of their homelands in their compositions.\n\nProminent composers of this era include Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky, Frédéric Chopin, Hector Berlioz, Franz Schubert, Robert Schumann, Felix Mendelssohn, Franz Liszt, Giuseppe Verdi, Richard Wagner, Johannes Brahms, and Johann Strauss II.\n\nProminent composers of the early 20th century include Igor Stravinsky, Claude Debussy, Dmitri Shostakovich, Sergei Rachmaninoff, Sergei Prokofiev, Arnold Schoenberg, Anton Webern, Alban Berg, Aram Khachaturian, George Gershwin, Edvard Grieg, and Béla Bartók. Although composers of this time can be considered Romantic, usually their works are not in the style of the period.\n\nEncompassing a wide variety of post-Romantic styles composed through the year 2000, 20th-century classical music includes late romantic, impressionist, neoclassical, neoromantic, neomedieval, and postmodern styles of composition. Modernism (1890–1930) marked an era when many composers rejected certain values of the common practice period, such as traditional tonality, melody, instrumentation, and structure. The high-modern era saw the emergence of neo-classical and serial music. A few authorities have claimed high-modernism as the beginning of postmodern music from about 1930. Others have more or less equated postmodern music with the \"contemporary music\" composed from the late 20th century through to the early 21st century.\n\nAlmost all of the composers who are described in music textbooks on classical music and whose works are widely performed as part of the standard concert repertoire are male composers, even though there has been a large number of women composers throughout the classical music period. Musicologist Marcia Citron has asked \"[w]hy is music composed by women so marginal to the standard 'classical' repertoire?\" Citron \"examines the practices and attitudes that have led to the exclusion of women composers from the received 'canon' of performed musical works.\" She argues that in the 1800s, women composers typically wrote art songs for performance in small recitals rather than symphonies intended for performance with an orchestra in a large hall, with the latter works being seen as the most important genre for composers; since women composers did not write many symphonies, they were deemed to be not notable as composers. In the \"...\"Concise Oxford History of Music\", Clara S[c]humann is one of the only female composers mentioned.\" Abbey Philips states that \"[d]uring the 20th century the women who were composing/playing gained far less attention than their male counterparts.\"\n\nWhile there are differences between particular performances of a classical work, a piece of classical music is generally held to transcend any interpretation of it. The use of musical notation is an effective method for transmitting classical music, since the written music contains the technical instructions for performing the work.\n\nThe written score, however, does not usually contain explicit instructions as to how to interpret the piece in terms of production or performance, apart from directions for dynamics, tempo and expression (to a certain extent). This is left to the discretion of the performers, who are guided by their personal experience and musical education, their knowledge of the work's idiom, their personal artistic tastes, and the accumulated body of historic performance practices.\n\nAll critics express the opinion that it is only from the mid-19th century, and especially in the 20th century, that the score began to hold such a high significance. Previously, improvisation (in preludes, cadenzas and ornaments), rhythmic flexibility (e.g., tempo rubato), improvisatory deviation from the score and oral tradition of playing was integral to the style. Classical musicians tend to use scores and the parts extracted from them to play music. Yet, even with notation providing the key elements of the music, there is considerable latitude in the performance of the works. Some of this latitude results from the inherent limitations of musical notation, though attempts to supplement traditional notation with signs and annotations indicating more subtle nuances tend to overwhelm and paralyse the performer.\n\nSome quotes that highlight a criticism of overvaluing of the score:\n\nImprovisation once played an important role in classical music. A remnant of this improvisatory tradition in classical music can be heard in the cadenza, a passage found mostly in concertos and solo works, designed to allow skilled performers to exhibit their virtuoso skills on the instrument. Traditionally this was improvised by the performer; however, it is often written for (or occasionally by) the performer beforehand. Improvisation is also an important aspect in authentic performances of operas of Baroque era and of bel canto (especially operas of Vincenzo Bellini), and is best exemplified by the \"da capo aria\", a form by which famous singers typically perform variations of the thematic matter of the aria in the recapitulation section ('B section' / the 'da capo' part). An example is Beverly Sills' complex, albeit pre-written, variation of \"Da tempeste il legno infranto\" from Händel's \"Giulio Cesare\".\n\nIts written transmission, along with the veneration bestowed on certain classical works, has led to the expectation that performers will play a work in a way that realizes in detail the original intentions of the composer. During the 19th century the details that composers put in their scores generally increased. Yet the opposite trend—admiration of performers for new \"interpretations\" of the composer's work—can be seen, and it is not unknown for a composer to praise a performer for achieving a better realization of the original intent than the composer was able to imagine. Thus, classical performers often achieve high reputations for their musicianship, even if they do not compose themselves. Generally however, it is the composers who are remembered more than the performers.\n\nThe primacy of the composer's written score has also led, today, to a relatively minor role played by improvisation in classical music, in sharp contrast to the practice of musicians who lived during the medieval, renaissance, baroque and early romantic eras. Improvisation in classical music performance was common during both the Baroque and early romantic eras, yet lessened strongly during the second half of the 20th century. During the classical era, Mozart and Beethoven often improvised the cadenzas to their piano concertos (and thereby encouraged others to do so), but for violin concertos they provided written cadenzas for use by other soloists. In opera, the practice of singing strictly by the score, i.e. \"come scritto\", was famously propagated by soprano Maria Callas, who called this practice 'straitjacketing' and implied that it allows the intention of the composer to be understood better, especially during studying the music for the first time.\n\nClassical music has often incorporated elements or material from popular music of the composer's time. Examples include occasional music such as Brahms' use of student drinking songs in his \"Academic Festival Overture\", genres exemplified by Kurt Weill's \"The Threepenny Opera\", and the influence of jazz on early and mid-20th-century composers including Maurice Ravel, exemplified by the movement entitled \"Blues\" in his sonata for violin and piano. Some postmodern, minimalist and postminimalist classical composers acknowledge a debt to popular music.\n\nNumerous examples show influence in the opposite direction, including popular songs based on classical music, the use to which \"Pachelbel's Canon\" has been put since the 1970s, and the musical crossover phenomenon, where classical musicians have achieved success in the popular music arena. In heavy metal, a number of lead guitarists (playing electric guitar), including Ritchie Blackmore and Randy Rhoads, modeled their playing styles on Baroque or Classical-era instrumental music.\n\nComposers of classical music have often made use of folk music (music created by musicians who are commonly not classically trained, often from a purely oral tradition). Some composers, like Dvořák and Smetana, have used folk themes to impart a nationalist flavor to their work, while others like Bartók have used specific themes lifted whole from their folk-music origins.\n\nCertain staples of classical music are often used commercially (either in advertising or in movie soundtracks). In television commercials, several passages have become clichéd, particularly the opening of Richard Strauss' \"Also sprach Zarathustra\" (made famous in the film \"\") and the opening section \"O Fortuna\" of Carl Orff's \"Carmina Burana\"; other examples include the \"Dies irae\" from the Verdi Requiem, Edvard Grieg's \"In the Hall of the Mountain King\" from \"Peer Gynt\", the opening bars of Beethoven's Symphony No. 5, Wagner's \"Ride of the Valkyries\" from \"Die Walküre\", Rimsky-Korsakov's \"Flight of the Bumblebee\", and excerpts of Aaron Copland's \"Rodeo\". Several works from the Golden Age of Animation matched the action to classical music. Notable examples are Walt Disney's \"Fantasia\", Tom and Jerry's \"Johann Mouse\", and Warner Bros.' \"Rabbit of Seville\" and \"What's Opera, Doc?\"\n\nSimilarly, movies and television often revert to standard, clichéd excerpts of classical music to convey refinement or opulence: some of the most-often heard pieces in this category include Bach´s Cello Suite No. 1, Mozart's \"Eine kleine Nachtmusik\", Vivaldi's \"Four Seasons\", Mussorgsky's \"Night on Bald Mountain\" (as orchestrated by Rimsky-Korsakov), and Rossini's \"\"William Tell\" Overture\". The same passages are often used by telephone call centres to induce a sense of calm in customers waiting in a queue. Shawn Vancour argues that the commercialization of classical music in the early 20th century may have harmed the music industry through inadequate representation.\n\nSince the range of production of classical music is from the 14th century to 21st century, most of this music (14th to early 20th century) belongs to the public domain, mainly sheet music and tablatures. Some projects like Musopen and Open Goldberg Variations were created to produce musical audio files of high quality and release them into the public domain, most of them are available at the Internet Archive website.\n\nThe Open Goldberg Variations project released a braille format into the public domain that can be used to produce paper or electronic scores, Braille e-books, for blind people.\n\nDuring the 1990s, several research papers and popular books wrote on what came to be called the \"Mozart effect\": an observed temporary, small elevation of scores on certain tests as a result of listening to Mozart's works. The approach has been popularized in a book by Don Campbell, and is based on an experiment published in \"Nature\" suggesting that listening to Mozart temporarily boosted students' IQ by 8 to 9 points. This popularized version of the theory was expressed succinctly by the \"New York Times\" music columnist Alex Ross: \"researchers... have determined that listening to Mozart actually makes you smarter.\" Promoters marketed CDs claimed to induce the effect. Florida passed a law requiring toddlers in state-run schools to listen to classical music every day, and in 1998 the governor of Georgia budgeted $105,000 per year to provide every child born in Georgia with a tape or CD of classical music. One of the co-authors of the original studies of the Mozart effect commented \"I don't think it can hurt. I'm all for exposing children to wonderful cultural experiences. But I do think the money could be better spent on music education programs.\"\n\nIn 1996/97, a research study was conducted on a population of preschool through college students in the Cherry Creek School District in Denver, Colorado, US. The study showed that students who actively listen to classical music before studying had higher academic scores. The research further indicated that students who listened to the music prior to an examination also had positively elevated achievement scores. Students who listened to rock-and-roll or Country music had moderately lower scores. The study further indicated that students who used classical music during the course of study had a significant leap in their academic performance; whereas, those who listened to other types of music had significantly lowered academic scores. The research was conducted over several schools within the Cherry Creek School District and was conducted through the University of Colorado. This study is reflective of several recent studies (i.e. Mike Manthei and Steve N. Kelly of the University of Nebraska at Omaha; Donald A. Hodges and Debra S. O'Connell of the University of North Carolina at Greensboro; etc.) and others who had significant results through the discourse of their work.\n\n\nNation-specific:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36546209", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36546209", "title": "Code Lyoko: Evolution", "text": "Code Lyoko: Evolution\n\nCode Lyoko: Evolution is the sequel to the French animated television series \"Code Lyoko\". It premiered on December 19, 2012, on France 4 and repeated October 9, 2016, on Boing. It blends live-action with CGI, picking up where the original series left off. In addition to improving upon the CGI in the original series, the soundtrack has been overhauled as well.\n\nSet one year after the events of the original series, Aelita Schaeffer, Jeremie Belpois, Odd Della Robbia, Ulrich Stern, Yumi Ishiyama, and William Dunbar return to their daily lives and routines at Kadic Academy. X.A.N.A., despite their success in defeating it previously, suddenly reappears, reborn with even more strength and power than ever before. The protagonists reactivate Franz Hopper's quantum supercomputer, which runs the virtual world Lyoko, and resume their former double lives in order to protect humanity from X.A.N.A.'s evil schemes once again. Joined by William Dunbar, who has finally been accepted as the sixth Lyoko Warrior, and an unreliable girl-genius named Laura Gauthier, the seven heroes are bent on unraveling the reasons for such a return and to exterminate X.A.N.A., the malevolently evil sentient, autonomous artificial intelligence/multi-agent system that is threatening the world once again.\n\nX.A.N.A. is currently unable to take over the network due to it missing some of its essential \"Codes,\" which it injected into the Lyoko Warriors, except for William, during their final virtualization in the original series, and is now trying to steal them back through its Spectres. Jeremie reasons that if X.A.N.A. regains all of its Codes, it will take over the internet and nothing will stop it. One benefit to having Codes, however, is that the carrier can deactivate towers on Lyoko under X.A.N.A.'s control, making all but William capable of doing so, as opposed to just Aelita alone. With the help of Laura, Jeremie works to write a virus program that will be capable of hopefully eradicating X.A.N.A. for good this time.\n\nIn addition to X.A.N.A., the gang eventually discover that they have another dangerous enemy, a mad scientist named Professor Lowell Tyron, who seems to be the one responsible for unintentionally returning X.A.N.A. to life, despite his claim that he has no knowledge of X.A.N.A., despite its high level of activity in the Cortex system, which is a Replika (Lyoko-like virtual world) that Tyron created, though the reason why is never specified. He commands a group of several virtual human avatars in green and black-striped ninja-like costumes to counter the Lyoko Warriors' efforts to hack into his system. In Tyron's lab, the group also discovers Aelita's long-lost mother, Anthea Hopper-Schaeffer. They seek to discover why she is with their new enemy and how to reunite Anthea and her daughter.\n\nIn the open-ended cliffhanger finale, \"Ultimate Mission\", it is revealed that Tyron had been married to Anthea Hopper for several years, and is now Aelita's stepfather. His ultimate intention, however, was to get his hands on her late husband's archives, so that he could effectively create the Cortex, which a gravely weakened X.A.N.A. then secretly inhabited as a temporary master location, to carry out its plans for world domination once again. Anthea herself only married Tyron to have a chance to see Aelita again. Tyron attempts to coerce Aelita into telling her friends to abort their plan to destroy the Cortex and coming with him, as he has legal custody of her, or risk never seeing her mother again. Aelita chooses to forsake her mother and go through with their original plan, and Tyron orders his subordinates to shut down his supercomputer while the Lyoko Warriors are still inside. They barely escape, having just injected Jeremie's virus program into the core of the Cortex, which means that X.A.N.A. would be destroyed upon rebooting of Tyron's computer, unless either X.A.N.A. was able to back itself up, or Tyron is able to repair his supercomputer, and by extension, X.A.N.A. along with it. \n\nThere are several characters that do not appear in the original show:\n\n\nThe budget for the series was expected to be €5,600,000.\n\nCode Lyoko Evolution received mixed-to-positive-to-negative reviews. While the improved CGI animation was viewed positively by fans (though the change from the unique art style put may fans off), reception to most of the other changes were either mixed or outright negative. Fans lambasted Laura Gauthier's character and had mixed views about the live-action shooting replacing 2-D animation in real life. Fans also criticized the casting choices and wooden acting of some of the performers. Aspects of the writing have also been criticized and it is generally seen as inferior to the original series. All of this lead to there only being one season with 26 episodes.\n\n"}
{"id": "48897671", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48897671", "title": "Cosmetic textile", "text": "Cosmetic textile\n\nCosmetic textiles are the functional textiles, including garments, underwear which come in direct contact with the skin through the process of microencapsulation. They concern the treatment of the skin for a cosmetic approach (for example, the orange peel effect), but can also be a vehicle for other active functions, such as slimming and body shaping. Cosmetic textiles currently offered on the market claim to be moisturizing, perfumed, cellulite reducing and body slimming.\n"}
{"id": "3736928", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3736928", "title": "Detective dénouement", "text": "Detective dénouement\n\nThe detective dénouement (, ; ) is a variant on the literary dénouement common to mystery stories.\n\nDetective dénouement was first popularised by the Sherlock Holmes novels, but is present in many stories, such as the works of Agatha Christie or in Ellen Raskin's young adult novel \"The Westing Game\".\n\nIn detective stories, the dénouement is the segment of a mystery novel in which the protagonist of the story, or a character serving in his or her stead, reveals all of the clues and lays out the conclusion for the other characters. This is usually in an attempt to show the readers how the character came to the conclusion and figured out the mystery. One famous example of the detective dénouement is the explanatory speech given by a forensic psychologist after the climax of the 1960 film \"Psycho\". In the U.S. television series \"Monk\", the title character (Adrian Monk) usually uses this method with the words \"here's what happened.\" A black-and-white montage of the events prior to the murder accompanies his narration.\n"}
{"id": "18117989", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18117989", "title": "East Kutubuan languages", "text": "East Kutubuan languages\n\nThe East Kutubuan languages are a small family of Trans–New Guinea languages (TNG) in the classification of Malcolm Ross. There are just two languages, \nwhich are not close to the West Kutubuan languages. These were linked in a \"Kutubuan\" family by Franklin and Voorhoeve in 1973, but that position has since been abandoned. Although East Kutubuan has proto-TNG vocabulary, Ross considers its inclusion in TNG to be somewhat questionable.\n"}
{"id": "347550", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=347550", "title": "Educational Testing Service", "text": "Educational Testing Service\n\nEducational Testing Service (ETS), founded in 1947, is the world's largest private nonprofit educational testing and assessment organization. It is headquartered in Lawrence Township, New Jersey, but has a Princeton address.\n\nETS develops various standardized tests primarily in the United States for K–12 and higher education, and it also administers international tests including the TOEFL (Test of English as a Foreign Language), TOEIC (Test of English for International Communication), Graduate Record Examination (GRE) General and Subject Tests, HiSET and The Praxis test Series — in more than 180 countries, and at over 9,000 locations worldwide. Many of the assessments it develops are associated with entry to US tertiary (undergraduate) and quaternary education (graduate) institutions, but it also develops K–12 statewide assessments used for accountability testing in many states, including California, Texas, Tennessee, and Virginia. In total, ETS annually administers 20 million exams in the U.S. and in 180 other countries.\n\nETS is a U.S.-registered 501(c)(3) non-profit organization created in 1947 by three other nonprofit educational institutions: the American Council on Education (ACE), The Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching, and The College Entrance Examination Board. ETS was formed in 1947 to take over the testing activities of its founders (whose organizations were not well suited to running operational assessment programs), and to pursue research intended to advance educational measurement and education. Among other things, ACE gave to the new organization the Cooperative Test Service and the National Teachers Examination; Carnegie gave the GRE; and the College Board turned over to ETS the operation (but not ownership) of the SAT for graduating high school students.\n\nIn keeping with the purposes for which it was established, ETS developed a program of research that covered not only measurement and education but also such related areas as statistics, educational evaluation, and psychology, particularly cognitive, developmental, personality, and social psychology. This broad-based research program attracted many individuals who distinguished themselves in their fields, often while at ETS but also in subsequent professorial positions. Among the more influential scientists have been Harold Gulliksen (whose book, \"Theory of Mental Tests,\" helped codify classical test theory); Frederic Lord (Item Response Theory); Samuel Messick, (modern validity theory); Robert Linn (known for testing and educational policy); Norman Frederiksen (performance assessment); Ledyard Tucker (test analysis, including inventing the \"Angoff Method\" of standard setting); Donald Rubin (missing data and causal modeling from observational data); Karl Jöreskog (structural equation modeling and confirmatory factor analysis); Paul Holland (differential item functioning, test equating, causal modeling); John Carroll (language testing and cognitive psychology); Michael Lewis (infant cognitive, social, and emotional development); Irving Sigel (children's cognitive development); Herman Witkin (cognitive and learning styles); K. Patricia Cross (adult education); Samuel Ball (an evaluation researcher who documented the positive educational effects of Sesame Street); and David Rosenhan (known for the Rosenhan experiment, which challenged the validity of psychiatric diagnosis).\n\nMembers of the ETS staff have been among the presidents of the National Council on Measurement in Education (NCME); the Psychometric Society; the Measurement and Evaluation Division of the American Educational Research Association (AERA); the Evaluation, Measurement and Statistics Division of the American Psychological Association (APA); the APA Developmental Psychology Division; and the Jean Piaget Society. They have been among the executive editors of the \"Journal of Educational Measurement\", Journal of Educational and Behavioral Statistics, Educational Evaluation and Policy Analysis, Journal of Educational Psychology, Journal of Applied Developmental Psychology, and Discourse Processes. Major citations have included the APA Distinguished Contributions to Knowledge Award (Norman Frederiksen, 1984), the APA Distinguished Scientific Contribution Award (Frederic Lord, 1988); the AERA E.F. Lindquist Award (William Turnbull, 1981; Frederic Lord, 1988; Samuel Messick, 1994; Paul Holland, 2000; Wendy Yen, 2008); the NCME Career Contributions to Educational Measurement Award (Frederic Lord, 1990; Paul Holland, 2004; Neil Dorans, 2010); and the Jean Piaget Society's Lifetime Achievement Award (Irving Sigel, 2002); among many other awards.\n\nThe high caliber of scientific staff allowed ETS to produce both new knowledge and methodology, especially in measurement and statistics, much of which has been taken up by assessment organizations around the world. Among the key scientific contributions were:\n\n\nETS' international headquarters is located on an campus outside of Princeton, New Jersey in Lawrence Township, Mercer County; processing, shipping, customer service and test security is in nearby Ewing. ETS also has a major office in San Antonio, Texas, which houses its K–12 Assessment Programs division, and smaller offices in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, Washington, DC, Hato Rey, Puerto Rico, and Concord, Sacramento, and Monterey, California. Overseas office locations, all of which are associated with for-profit subsidiaries that are wholly owned by ETS, include Amsterdam (ETS Global BV headquarters), London (ETS Global BV), Seoul (ETS Global BV), Paris (ETS Global BV), Amman (ETS Global BV), Warsaw (ETS Global BV), Beijing (ETS China), and Kingston, Ontario (ETS Canada). Not including its for-profit subsidiaries, ETS employs about 2,700 individuals, including 240 with doctorates and an additional 350 others with \"higher degrees.\"\n\nTo help support its nonprofit educational mission, ETS, like many other nonprofits, conducts business activities that are unrelated to that mission (e.g., employment testing). Under US tax law, these activities may be conducted (within limits) by the nonprofit itself, or by for-profit subsidiaries. Most of the \"off-mission\" work conducted by ETS is carried out by such wholly owned, for-profit subsidiaries as Prometric, which delivers tests for hundreds of third-party clients, ETS Global BV, which contains much of the international operations of the company, ETS China, and ETS Canada.\n\nAbout 25% of the work carried out by ETS is contracted by the College Board, a private, nonprofit membership association of universities, colleges, school districts, and secondary schools. The most popular and well-known of the College Board's tests is the SAT, taken by more than 3 million students annually. ETS also develops and administers The College Board's Preliminary SAT/National Merit Scholarship Qualifying Test (PSAT/NMSQT) and the Advanced Placement program, which is widely used in US high schools for advanced course credit.\n\nSince 1983, ETS has conducted the National Assessment of Educational Progress (NAEP), known as the \"Nation's Report Card,\" under contract to the US National Center for Education Statistics. NAEP is the only nationally representative and continuing assessment of what US students know and can do. ETS is responsible for coordination among the nine NAEP Alliance contractors, for item development, and for design, data analysis, and reporting.\n\nIn addition to the contract work that ETS undertakes for nonprofit and government entities like the College Board, the National Center for Education Statistics, and state education departments, the organization offers its own tests. These tests include the Graduate Record Examinations (GRE) (for graduate and professional school admissions), the Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL) (for post-secondary admissions), the Test of English for International Communication (TOEIC) (for use by business and industry), and the Praxis Series (for teacher licensure and certification).\n\nIn England and Wales, ETS Europe, a unit of the ETS Global for-profit subsidiary, was contracted to mark and process the National Curriculum assessments on behalf of the government. ETS Global took over this role in 2008 from Edexcel, a subsidiary of Pearson, which had encountered significant and repeated problems in carrying out the marking and processing contract. As was the case for Edexcel, The first year of ETS Global's operation was struck by a number of problems, including the late arrival of scripts to examiners, a database of student entries being unavailable, and countrywide reports of problems with the marking of the papers. The opposition Conservative Party (Tory) criticized the awarding of the contracts to ETS, and produced a dossier listing previous problems with ETS's service. The ETS contract with the QCA was terminated in August 2008, with an agreement to pay back £19.5m and cancel invoices worth £4.6m. Subsequently, the contract for National Curriculum assessment marking and processing was again awarded to Edexcel. Like the two prior contracts, the Edexcel contract has encountered significant quality problems and the tests themselves, the focus of longstanding controversy in the English education community and among the public, have been subjected to a massive boycott by schools.\n\nIn 2009, ETS released the My Credentials Vault Service with Interfolio, Inc to \"simplify the entire letter of recommendation process\".\n\nETS has been criticized for being a \"highly competitive business operation that is as much multinational monopoly as nonprofit institution\".\nDue to its legal status as a non-profit organization, ETS is exempt from paying federal corporate income tax on many, but not all, of its operations. Furthermore, it does not need to report financial information to the Securities and Exchange Commission, though it does annually report detailed financial information to the IRS on Form 990, which is publicly available.\n\nIn response to growing criticism of its monopolistic power, New York state passed the Educational Testing Act, a disclosure law which required ETS to make available certain test questions and graded answer sheets to students.\n\nProblems administering England's national tests in 2008 by ETS Europe were the subject of thousands of complaints recorded by the Times Educational Supplement. Their operations were also described as a \"shambles\" in the UK Parliament, where a financial penalty was called for. Complaints included papers not being marked properly, or not being marked at all and papers being sent to the wrong schools or lost completely. It has even been suggested that the quality of service is so poor that the Department for Children, Schools and Families (formerly the Department for Education and Skills) might not be able to publish the 2008 league tables of school performance. However, the contract was ended by \"mutual consent\". The UK government asked Lord Sutherland to conduct an inquiry into the failure of the 2008 tests. The report included in its main findings:\n\n\"• primary responsibility for this summer’s delivery failure rests with ETS Global BV, which won the public contract to deliver the tests;\"<br>\n\"• ETS’s capacity to deliver the contract proved to be insufficient. A lack of comprehensive planning and testing by ETS of its systems and processes was a key factor in the delivery failure;\"\n\nIn 1983, students of James A. Garfield High School in East Los Angeles, California, achieved unexpectedly high exam results on the ETS Advanced Placement Exam. ETS implied that the students may have cheated to obtain such results based on common mistakes across different exams. The students were required to prove their abilities and innocence by taking a second exam, which they did successfully.\n\nAmericans for Educational Testing Reform (AETR) claims that ETS is violating its non-profit status through excessive profits, executive compensation, and governing board member pay (which the IRS specifically advises against). AETR further claims that ETS is acting unethically by selling test preparation materials, directly lobbying legislators and government officials, and refusing to acknowledge test-taker rights. It also criticises ETS for forcing GRE test-takers to participate in research experiments during the actual exam. It has also come under criticism for paying its part-time employees, most of whom are drawn from the less than 10% of the U.S. population with graduate degrees, a modest $15 an hour (with no benefits), to grade the essay component of their standardized exams. A minimum of a bachelor's degree is required of first time raters, and they are paid only $13 hourly. In December 2017, ETS, who had hired an enormous amount of new raters for the SAT program and lost the contract after one year, infiltrated other programs with the new hires and punished long-standing raters by lowering their pay 3-5 dollars per hour after years of hard-earned service.\n\nIn 2014 the BBC reported that the Home Office has suspended English language tests run by ETS after a BBC investigation uncovered systematic fraud in the student visa system. Secret filming of government-approved English exams needed for a visa showed entire rooms of candidates having the tests faked for them \n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4525690", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4525690", "title": "Fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science", "text": "Fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science\n\nFellowship of the American Association for the Advancement of Science (FAAAS) is an honor accorded by the American Association for the Advancement of Science (AAAS) to distinguished persons who are members of the Association. Fellows are elected annually by the AAAS Council for \"efforts on behalf of the advancement of science or its applications [which] are scientifically or socially distinguished\". \n\nExamples of areas in which nominees may have made significant contributions are research; teaching; technology; services to \nprofessional societies; administration in academe, industry, and government; and communicating and interpreting science to the public. The association has awarded fellowships since 1874. AAAS publishes annual update of active Fellows list, which also provides email address to verify status of non-active Fellows. See also for more examples.\n\nAAAS Fellows include Nobel Prize winners \nMichael W. Young and Michael Rosbash, ACM Turing Award winner David Patterson and IEEE Medal of Honor winner Irwin M. Jacobs.\n"}
{"id": "707704", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=707704", "title": "Fondue", "text": "Fondue\n\nFondue (; ) is a Swiss and French Savoyard dish of melted cheese served in a communal pot (\"caquelon\" or fondue pot) over a portable stove (\"réchaud\") heated with a candle or spirit lamp, and eaten by dipping bread into the cheese using long-stemmed forks. It was promoted as a Swiss national dish by the Swiss Cheese Union (Schweizerische Käseunion) in the 1930s, and was popularized in North America in the 1960s.\n\nSince the 1950s, the term \"fondue\" has been generalized to other dishes in which a food is dipped into a communal pot of liquid kept hot in a fondue pot: chocolate fondue, in which pieces of fruit or pastry are dipped into a melted chocolate mixture, and \"fondue bourguignonne\", in which pieces of meat are cooked in hot oil or broth.\n\nThe word \"fondue\" is the feminine passive past participle of the French verb \"fondre\" (\"to melt\") used as a noun. It is first attested in French in 1735, in Vincent la Chapelle's \"Cuisinier moderne\", and in English in 1878.\n\nThe earliest known recipe for cheese fondue as we know it today comes from a 1699 book published in Zurich, under the name \"Käss mit Wein zu kochen\", \"to cook cheese with wine\". It calls for grated or cut-up cheese to be melted with wine, and for bread to be dipped in it.\n\nHowever, the \"name\" \"cheese fondue\", until the late nineteenth century, referred to a preparation including eggs and cheese, as in la Chapelle's 1735 \"Fonduë de Fromage, aux Truffes Fraiches\" it was something between scrambled eggs with cheese and a cheese soufflé. Brillat-Savarin wrote in 1834 that it is \"nothing other than scrambled eggs with cheese\". Variations included cream (\"à la genevoise\") and truffles (\"à la piémontaise\") in addition to eggs, as well as what is now called \"raclette\" (\"fondue valaisanne\").\n\nThe first known recipe for the modern cheese fondue under that name, with cheese and wine but no eggs, was published in 1875, and was already presented as a Swiss national dish. Despite its modern associations with rustic mountain life, it was a town-dweller's dish from the lowlands of western, French-speaking, Switzerland: rich cheese like Gruyère was a valuable export item which peasants could not afford to eat.\n\nThe introduction of cornstarch (\"Maïzena\") to Switzerland in 1905 made it easier to make a smooth and stable emulsion of the wine and cheese, and probably contributed to the success of fondue.\n\nFondue was popularized as a Swiss national dish by the Swiss Cheese Union (Schweizerische Käseunion) in the 1930s as a way of increasing cheese consumption. The Swiss Cheese Union also created pseudo-regional recipes as part of the \"spiritual defence of Switzerland\". After World War II rationing ended, the Swiss Cheese Union continued its marketing campaign, sending fondue sets to military regiments and event organizers across Switzerland. Fondue is now a symbol of Swiss unity.\n\nIn the meantime, fondue continued to be promoted aggressively in Switzerland, with slogans like \"La fondue crée la bonne humeur\" 'fondue creates a good mood' and (1981, in Swiss German) \"Fondue isch guet und git e gueti Luune\" 'fondue is good and creates a good mood' – abbreviated as \"figugegl\".\n\nFondue was promoted to Americans at the Swiss Pavilion's Alpine restaurant at the 1964 New York World's Fair.\n\nThe extension of the name \"fondue\" to other dishes served in a communal hot pot dates to 1950s New York. Konrad Egli, a Swiss restaurateur, introduced \"fondue bourguignonne\" at his Chalet Suisse restaurant in 1956. In the mid 1960s, he invented chocolate fondue as part of a promotion for Toblerone chocolate. A sort of chocolate mousse or chocolate cake had also sometimes been called \"chocolate fondue\" starting in the 1930s.\n\nCheese fondue consists of a blend of cheeses, wine and seasoning. To prepare the \"caquelon\" it is first rubbed with a cut garlic clove. White wine is slightly heated with cornstarch, and then grated cheese is added and stirred until melted. It is often topped off with a bit of kirsch. The cornstarch or other starch is added to prevent separation. The mixture is stirred continuously as it heats in the \"caquelon\".\n\nWhen it is ready, diners dip cubes of bread speared on a fondue fork into the mixture.\n\nA cheese fondue mixture should be kept warm enough to keep the fondue smooth and liquid but not so hot that it burns. If this temperature is held until the fondue is finished there will be a thin crust of toasted (not burnt) cheese at the bottom of the \"caquelon\". This is called \"la religieuse\" (French for \"the nun\"). It has the texture of a cracker and is almost always lifted out and eaten.\n\n\n\n\nRefrigerated fondue blends are sold in most Swiss supermarkets as convenience food and need little more than melting in the caquelon. Individual portions heatable in a microwave oven are also sold.\n\n\"Fondue chinoise\" (lit. \"Chinese fondue\") is a common name for hot pot, where meat and vegetables are cooked in a shared pot of broth, or just dip the sliced meat with fondue fork into boiling broth with salad as side dish. Various sauces are provided on the side. Uniquely the meal is finished off when all the diners have finished cooking their ingredients by sharing out the broth, which now contains an amalgam of all of the flavors from the earlier ingredients.\n\nSlices of fruit or pastry are dipped in a caquelon of melted chocolate, often flavored with rum or kirschwasser. Dessert fondues may also be made with coconut, honey, caramel, or marshmallow.\n\n\"Fondue bourguignonne\" consists of a fondue pot filled with hot oil into which diners dip pieces of meat to cook them. Various dipping sauces are provided on the side.\n\n\"Fondue vigneronne\" or \"Fondue Bacchus\" is like fondue bourguignonne, with wine rather than oil. Red wine fondue consists of red wine boiled, and seasoned with salt, pepper, garlic, onions and herbs; the white wine version is spiced with cinnamon, chilis, coriander, white pepper and enriched with chicken broth. The guests then dip meat, fish or vegetables in the caquelon and top them with bearnaise, tartare sauce or simply French mustard.\n\nConsists of a metallic or stone slab. Primarily for meat fondue, oil or olive oil is poured on the slab, and the meat is cooked over it like in a pan. It is a very common form of fondue in South America.\n\nA tradition says that if a man loses his bread in the pot, he buys drinks all around.\n\nFondue is eaten by spearing a piece of bread on a fork, swirling it in the pot, and putting it into the mouth. Some writers recommend that the dipping fork be used only to transport the food from the pot to one's plate, not to eat from.\n\nThe choice of beverage to drink with fondue is specified in several conflicting traditions; some demand that white wine should be drunk, while others specify black tea as the beverage of choice. Some people drink a shot of spirits during or after the meal. A study published in 2010 showed that none of these beverages caused indigestion after eating fondue.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1001255", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1001255", "title": "Hanamachi", "text": "Hanamachi\n\nHistorically, \"Hanamachi\" typically contained a number of \"okiya\" and \"ochaya\", along with a \"kaburenjō\" (歌舞練所).\nThe \"kaburenjō\" was a meeting place for geisha, usually with a theatre, rooms where geisha classes can be held, and the \"kenban\" offices, which dealt with geisha's pay, regulation and similar matters. Gion, a district in Kyoto, also has a vocational school, called \"Nyokoba\". Many of the teachers there are designated as Living National Treasures. The onsen geisha communities of onsen (hot spring resort) towns are not considered hanamachi, and not listed below.\n\n\"Hanamachi\" were preceded by and should not be confused with traditional courtesan/prostitution districts known as . These were three districts, established in the early 1600s in Kyoto, Osaka, and Edo (now Tokyo), respectively: Shimabara for Kyōto (1640), Shinmachi for Ōsaka (1624–1644) and Yoshiwara for Edo (1617). The workers in these districts were known as , of which the highest ranked were \"oiran,\" and rather than the \"ochaya\" and \"okiya\" of geisha, these featured ageya as entertainment venues. Geisha developed about a century later, in the mid-1700s, often in courtesan districts, and thus these districts developed into \"hanamachi.\" All three districts are now defunct, both as courtesan districts and geisha districts, though some tourist-oriented establishments are preserved in Shimabara, Kyoto, and some conventional sex work establishments continue to exist in Yoshiwara, Tokyo.\n\nThere are currently five active hanamachi in Kyoto (in Kyoto these are generally referred to as \"kagai\" instead of \"hanamachi\"), sometimes referred to as ; there were previously six, but Shimabara is now defunct, remaining as a tourist attraction.\nDefunct:\n\nThese are primarily clustered around the Kamo River, from Sanjō Street (3rd Street) to Gojō Street (5th Street), particularly around Shijō Street – four of the five districts are in this area. Kamishichiken is separated from the others, being far to the northwest, while the defunct district of Shimabara is also located to the west. Narrowly speaking, districts are centered around their respective .\n\nEach district has a distinctive crest (kamon), which appears on geisha's kimonos, as well as on lanterns (list of crests).\n\nA summer tradition, around the time of the Gion Festival among Kyoto hanamachis is to distribute personalized to favored patrons and stores the maiko and geiko (the dialectal word for geisha in Kyoto and Kanazawa; in general, refers to geisha from western Japan) frequent. These feature a crest of the geisha house on the front, and the geiko's name on the back (house name, then personal name). These are produced by , and the product name is . Establishments in hanamachis that have many geiko clients often accumulate many of these fans, and proudly display them as a sign of quality.\n\nAll the Kyoto hanamachi stage public dances annually, or \"odori\" (generally written in traditional kana spelling as をどり, rather than modern おどり), featuring both maiko and geiko. These also feature an optional tea ceremony (tea and wagashi served by maiko) before the performance. These are performed for several weeks, mostly in the spring – four hanamachi hold them in the spring, one (Gion Higashi) holds their show in the autumn. Different districts started public performances in different years; the oldest are Gion Kōbu and Pontocho, whose performances started at the Kyoto exhibition of 1872, while others (Kamishichiken, Miyagawachō) started performing in the 1950s. There are many performances, with tickets being inexpensive, ranging from around 1500 yen to 4500 yen. The best-known is \"Miyako odori,\" by Gion Kōbu, which is one of the two oldest and has the most performances.\n\nThe dances (name of performance and explanation) are as follows (listed in order of performance through the year):\nThere was also previously:\nThere is also a combined show of all five districts, which is called , or more formally . This takes place during the daytime on two days (Saturday and Sunday) on a weekend in late June (typically last or second-to-last weekend) at a large venue, and tickets are significantly more expensive than those for individual districts. Connected with this event, in the evening on these two days there are evening performances with kaiseki meals, either a combined event, or separate ones per district. This is known as the , and is quite expensive (as is usual for kaiseki), and very limited availability; this has been held since 1994.\n\n\n\n\nYoshiwara was the Tokyo courtesans' district and is sometimes referred to as a \"hanamachi\".\n\n\nKanazawa's geisha districts were most active during 1820–30 and c. 1867–1954 (just before Meiji revolution until prostitution was outlawed). Now called \"chayagai\", the three survive and often feature public performances during peak tourist seasons.\n"}
{"id": "43700284", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43700284", "title": "International Hemp Building Association", "text": "International Hemp Building Association\n\nThe International Hemp Building Association (IHBA) is the largest association internationally in this sector. Members and partners of the association include architects, builders, consultants, designers, the European Industrial Hemp Association (EIHA), the Hemp Industries Association and manufacturers. A non-profit association founded in 2009 by director Steve Allin author and hemp building consultant, the association globally promotes and supports the production and use of all hemp based construction materials and their by-products in a sustainable and bio-regional manner. \n\nIn April 2011 professionals in the hemp building industry from around the globe were interviewed for the documentary Bringing It Home at the association’s 2nd International Hemp Building Symposium, in Granada, Spain.\nThe IHBA cooperated with the technology department of engineering sciences of Uppsala University in Sweden in 2014 on research into a study on the potential of hemp buildings in different climates. \n\n"}
{"id": "11942272", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11942272", "title": "Israel Cultural Excellence Foundation", "text": "Israel Cultural Excellence Foundation\n\nThe Israel Cultural Excellence Foundation (IcExcellence) is a private cultural foundation which aims to identify, nurture, and support Israel's most outstanding artists. \n\nThe foundation locates Israeli artists with potential for excellence in a wide variety of artistic fields, including visual arts, music (classical, jazz, and Israeli), dance, theater, cinema, product design, visual communication, fashion design, and writing. The foundation supports its chosen artists for a period of up to five years.\n\nIcExcellence was founded by its managing director Rachel Marani, formerly Israel’s cultural attaché in Washington. It is financed by businesspeople, companies, and foundations from Israel and all over the world. \n\nThe artistic advisory committees consist of 35 artists and public opinion makers, including six Israel Prize laureates, all acting on a voluntary basis. Members include Dubi Lenz, Gal Uchovsky, David Tartakover, Michal Smoira-Cohn, Chaim Topol, Dani Caravan, Yossi Marhaim, Mendi Rodan, Ohad Naharin, Danny Gottfried, Ron Arad, Asher Fisch, Gershon Bram, Alex Padua, and Micha Lewensohn.\n\nThe work of the foundation focuses on two main areas. The first, \"Developing and advancing the artist’s knowledge and skills\", involves building a personal advancement program suited to the artist and their needs. The programs may include taking advanced courses in a foreign country, or learning a relevant professional software program. The second area, \"Developing and advancing the artist’s professional career, involves encouraging artists to assume a proactive approach to advancing their careers, based on the understanding that great artistic talent is a prerequisite but in itself does not suffice for developing a prominent local and/or international career. Seminars and annual meetings deal with “career skills”, exposing the artists to subjects such as strategic and business counseling, self-presentation, marketing, branding, and networking. Business coaching is also offered.\n\nDin Din Aviv, David D'Or, Lior Elmalich, Victoria Hanna, Rona Kenan, Ron Shem Tov (Izabo), Shlomi Shaban\n\nConductors Gil Shohat, Dan Ettinger, and Yaron Gottfried, Opera Singer Chen Reiss, Composer Avner Dorman, Keren Hadar\n\nAvishai Cohen, Eli Degibri\n\nActor Itay Tiran, Set & Lighting Designer Bambi Friedman, Mira Awad, Keren Zur\n\nAuthor Etgar Keret, Eshkol Nevo\n\nDirectors Nir Bergman, Tomer Heymann, David Ofek,\n\nYael Bartana, Zoya Cherkassky, Adi Nes, Talia Keinan, Yehudit Sasportas, Gal Weinstein\n\nGraphic Designer Adi Stern, Illustrator Rutu Modan\n\nAvshalom Gur, Yaniv Persy, Mirit Weinstock, Claudette Zorea,\n\nSharon Eyal, Emanuel Gat, Yasmeen Godder, Idit Herman (Clipa Theater),\n\nRon Gilad, Tal Gur\n\nOhad Fishof\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48834281", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48834281", "title": "Jugović brothers", "text": "Jugović brothers\n\nThe Jugović brothers (), or Nine Jugović (Девет Југовића), commonly known as the Jugovići, the nine sons of Jug Bogdan (Vratko Nemanjić), are popular mythological characters of Serbian epic poetry. In poems, the Jugović brothers and their blood brother Miloš Obilić fight to their death in the Battle of Kosovo (1389), dying as heroes. This is based on mythology, in which Miloš Obilić and other knights lost their life \"in glory as martyrs\". One of the earliest accounts of the battle was the Florentine chancellor Coluccio Salutati (died 1406) who described twelve Christian noblemen who broke through the Ottomans, one of whom killed the Sultan (in later accounts, that knight was named identified as Miloš Obilić).\n\nThe brothers have been depicted in the arts, such as by Croatian painter Mirko Rački, Serbian painter Adam Stefanović, and on a mosaic on the Tronoša Monastery, which is popularly associated with the Jugovići.\n\nThe Serbian Church awards an order to mothers of more than four children, named after the mother of the Jugović brothers.\n\n"}
{"id": "7266116", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7266116", "title": "Khinkali", "text": "Khinkali\n\nKhinkali ( ) is a Georgian dumpling, which originated in the Georgian mountain regions of Pshavi, Mtiuleti and Khevsureti. Varieties of khinkali spread from there across different parts of the Caucasus. The fillings of khinkali vary with the area. The original recipe, the so-called \"khevsuruli\", consisted of only minced meat (lamb or beef and pork mixed), onions, chili pepper, salt, and cumin. However, the modern recipe used mostly especially in Georgian urban areas, the so-called \"kalakuri\", uses herbs like parsley and cilantro (also called coriander). In Muslim-majority areas the use of beef and lamb is more prevalent. Mushrooms, potatoes, or cheese may be used in place of meat.\n\nKhinkali is eaten plain or with ground black pepper. The meat filling is uncooked when khinkali is assembled, so when it is cooked, the juices of the meat are trapped inside the dumpling. To make khinkali juicier usually warm water or broth is added to the minced meat. Khinkali is typically consumed first by sucking the juices while taking the first bite, in order to prevent the dumpling from bursting. The top, where the pleats meet, is tough, and is not supposed to be eaten, but discarded to the plate so that those eating can count how many they have consumed. In Georgia, this top is called the \"kudi\" (Georgian: ქუდი, \"hat\") or \"k'uch'i\" (Georgian: კუჭი, \"stomach\").\n\nThere is a widespread etiquette in Georgia to use only one's bare hands while consuming these dumplings; the using of utensils, like a fork, is considered impolite.\n\nThe towns of Dusheti, Pasanauri and Mtskheta are particularly famous for their khinkali.\n\n"}
{"id": "39733609", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39733609", "title": "Kiarina Kordela", "text": "Kiarina Kordela\n\nAglaia Kiarina Kordela (; ; born July 13, 1963) is a Greek-American philosopher and critical theorist. She is a professor of German Studies and founding director of the Critical Theory Program at Macalester College in Saint Paul, MN. She is also Honorary Adjunct Professor at the Writing and Society Research Center, University of Western Sydney, Australia. She writes and teaches on a wide range of topics, notably psychoanalysis, political, literary and film theory, and biopolitics.\n\nHer primary approach and focus is on the relation between economic structures and metaphysics in secular capitalist modernity. Kordela is known for her reinterpretation of Lacanian psychoanalysis and Foucauldian biopolitics using the work of Spinoza. Her philosophical inquiries have ramifications for a variety of contemporary social issues and academic fields of study, including Postcolonial Studies, Critical Race Theory, Critical Terrorism Studies, Comparative Literature, and Film Studies.\n\nKordela was born in Patras, Greece to a middle- to lower-class family of Greek and Italian descent. She moved out of her family's home at the age of 18 (far earlier than is traditional Greek custom), studied filmmaking and worked as a stewardess and bartender. At age 23, she began undergraduate studies in the Department of German Language and Literature at the Philosophy School of Athens at the University of Athens. Having fulfilled her degree requirements a year earlier than stipulated, she received a DAAD scholarship for a year of studies at Heidelberg University, Germany. A similar scenario occurred during her graduate studies: \"I eventually went to Cornell where I did my PhD. I had six years of financial support at Cornell, but I finished in four years.\"\n\nKordela received her B.A. from University of Athens, Greece and her M.A. from University of Pittsburgh. She received her Ph.D. from Cornell University in 1998. Kordela has been teaching at Macalester since 1998.\n\nProfessor Kordela teaches regularly courses in English toward both the German major/minor and the Critical Theory concentration, such as the core Critical Theory seminars \"Dead White Men,\" and a series of different topics seminars, such as \"Metaphysics in Secular Thought,\" \"German-French Dialogues in Critical Theory,\" Value\" (a course on aesthetic theory, in its relation to economic and ethical values), ” \"Modernity and the Unconscious,\" \"Modernism-Postmodernism,\" \"A Kafkaesque Century,\" “Philosophy, Literature, Film,” as well as courses on film theory.\n\nIn 2007, Kordela published \"$urplus: Spinoza, Lacan\", wherein she maintains that the work of Psychoanalyst Jacques Lacan is the correct continuation of thought that runs through Spinoza and Marx. She argues that this line of thought entails a radical reconceptualization of Being or appearance, and further, that this new ontology works \"not simply to overturn the Platonic hierarchy but collapses it as obsolete.\"\nKordela challenges certain interpretations of Spinoza (namely, those of Jonathan Israel, Gilles Deleuze, Félix Guattari, Antonio Negri, and Michael Hardt). Although Kordela criticizes these readings of Spinoza, she also argues that popular criticisms of neo-spinozism (e.g. those of Slavoj Žižek and Alain Badiou) make the same mistake as those they criticize — both sides ignore the inherent contradictions of Spinoza's work. One of those contradictions, which is central to Kordela analysis of Spinoza and her allegiance to his monism, is his statement that \"truth is the standard both of itself and the false.\" Kordela argues that this ternary concept of truth — truth, itself and the false — reveals Spinoza's break with the binaries of both Platonism and anti-Platonism. Kordela shows that this ternary structure corresponds to Lacan's argument that truth has the structure of a fiction.\nKordela traces the emergence of “enjoyment” and “the gaze” out of Spinoza’s theories of God, truth, and causality, Kant’s critique of pure reason, and, drawing on Kojin Karatani, Marx’s pathbreaking application of set theory to economy. The main achievement of \"$urplus\" is to move away from the logical impasse of Kant's critique of reason to Lacan's and Marx's theories of surplus by way of set theory.\n\nAlthough both share a focus on human life as it is inscribed by power, Foucauldian biopolitics and Lacanian psychoanalysis have remained isolated from and even opposed to one another. In \"Being, Time, Bios\", A. Kiarina Kordela aims to overcome this divide, formulating a historical ontology that draws from Spinoza, Marx, Heidegger, and Sartre to theorize the changed character of being and time under secular capitalism. With insights from film theory, postcolonial studies, and race theory, Kordela s wide-ranging analysis suggests a radically new understanding of contemporary capitalism one in which uncertainty, sacrifice, immortality, and the gaze are central.\n\nTo date, Kordela has authored two monographs, co-edited two others, and many articles in academic journals and anthological collections. She has also translated a number of academic texts into Modern Greek.\n\n\nThe following books have been announced, but not yet published.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40638889", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40638889", "title": "Koman culture", "text": "Koman culture\n\nThe Koman culture is a culture that originated in the 6th through the 8th century AD around the area of Koman, Albania, and is considered to explain the transitioning from the Illyrian population to the Albanian one.\n\nThe earliest discoveries around the Koman culture were made in 1898, around the graveyard of the Dalmaca castle, near Koman.\n"}
{"id": "31744050", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31744050", "title": "Kōrikoppu", "text": "Kōrikoppu\n\nEarly \"Kōrikoppu\" could be found by the end of the Meiji period (1868–1912), and individual texture patterns using a technique of aburidashi (a technique of glass-works that motifs come to the surface by difference in temperature) were developed until the beginning of the Shōwa period (1926–1989).\n\n"}
{"id": "29158034", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29158034", "title": "List of Latin Grammy Awards categories", "text": "List of Latin Grammy Awards categories\n\nThe Latin Grammy Awards are awarded in a series of categories, each of which isolate a specific contribution to Latin music. The standard awards list nominees in each category from which a winner is selected. These categories have been added and removed over time.\n\nThe General Field consists of four standard awards representing the best over-all achievements in performance, production, and songwriting in Spanish and Portuguese languages:\n\n\n\"Previously awarded:\"\n\n\n\n\"Previously awarded:\"\n\n\n\n\"Previously awarded:\"\n\n\n\n\"Previously awarded:\"\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\"Previously awarded:\"\n\nNote: The field was originally called \"Brazilian\" before it was changed to \"Portuguese Language\" in 2016.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThere are special awards which are awarded without nominations, typically for achievements of longer than the past year, which the standard awards apply to:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24544491", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24544491", "title": "List of ancient watermills", "text": "List of ancient watermills\n\nThis list of ancient watermills presents an overview of water-powered grain-mills and industrial mills in the classical antiquity from their Hellenistic beginnings through the Roman imperial period.\n\nThe watermill is the earliest instance of a machine harnessing natural forces to replace human muscular labour (apart from the sail). As such it holds a special place in the history of technology and also in economic studies where it is associated with growth.\n\nThe initial invention of the watermill appears to have occurred in the hellenized eastern Mediterranean in the wake of the conquests of Alexander the Great and the rise of Hellenistic science and technology. In the subsequent Roman era, the use of water-power was diversified and different types of watermills were introduced. These include all three variants of the vertical water wheel as well as the horizontal water wheel. Apart from its main use in grinding flour, water-power was also applied to pounding grain, crushing ore, sawing stones and possibly fulling and bellows for iron furnaces.\n\nAn increased research interest has greatly improved our knowledge of Roman watermill sites in recent years. Numerous archaeological finds in the western half of the empire now complement the surviving documentary material from the eastern provinces; they demonstrate that the breakthrough of watermill technology occurred as early as the 1st century AD and was not delayed until the onset of the Middle Ages as previously thought. The data shows a wide spread of grain-mills over most parts of the empire, with industrial mills also being in evidence in both halves. Although the prevalence of grain-mills naturally meant that watermilling remained a typically rural phenomenon, it also rose in importance in the urban environment.\n\nThe data below spans the period until ca. 500 AD. The vast majority dates to Roman times.\n\nBelow the earliest ancient evidence for different types of watermills and the use of water-power for various industrial processes. Note: The Perachora watermill, near Loutraki, in Greece, is not included; it is considered the earliest watermill with physical remains. This list is continued for the early Middle Ages here.\n\nIn the following, literary, epigraphical and documentary sources referring to watermills and other water-driven machines are listed.\n\nThis section deals with depictions of watermills which are preserved in ancient paintings, reliefs, mosaics, etc.\n\nBelow are listed excavated or surveyed watermill sites dated to the ancient period.\n\nThe following list comprises stray finds of ancient millstones. Note that there is no way to distinguish millstones driven by water-power from those powered by animals turning a capstan. Most, however, are assumed to derive from watermills.\n\nAlthough more rare than the massive millstones, finds of wooden and iron parts of the mill machinery can also point to the existence of ancient watermills. Large stone mortars have been found at many mines; their deformations suggest automated crushing mills worked by water wheels.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10762227", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10762227", "title": "List of museums with major collections in ethnography and anthropology", "text": "List of museums with major collections in ethnography and anthropology\n\nThis is a list of museums with major collections in ethnography and anthropology.\n\n"}
{"id": "6147581", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6147581", "title": "List of pre-college music schools", "text": "List of pre-college music schools\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51118685", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51118685", "title": "Meludia", "text": "Meludia\n\nMeludia is a French-based company that offers an online interactive education platform to master the fundamentals of music.\nThe Meludia Method is based upon progressive interactive listening exercises, using two main frameworks designed by Vincent Chaintrier.\n\n\nBastien Sannac and Vincent Chaintrier co-founded Meludia in June 2012. Meludia was further developed in the Cent Quatre, a public cultural incubator in Paris, before being commercially launched in 2014. Meludia is used at The Curtis Institute of Music in Philadelphia. Meludia has also been deployed to entire populations by several countries, like Estonia, Malta and Canada.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37192386", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37192386", "title": "Ministry of Education and Culture", "text": "Ministry of Education and Culture\n\nThe Ministry of Education and Culture is a Cabinet position in the governments of several nations. In some nations the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Culture are separate departments; in others, the Ministry of Education and Culture also includes Arts, Science, Sports, etc.\n\nThe Ministry is politically responsible for education and promoting and protecting cultural expression.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57590151", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57590151", "title": "Numismatic associations", "text": "Numismatic associations\n\nNumismatic associations bring together groups of numismatists. They may be commercial, hobby or professional. Membership is sometimes by election. \n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe British Association of Numismatic Societies (BANS) maintains a list of affiliated societies.\n\n"}
{"id": "5556670", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5556670", "title": "Ohm's acoustic law", "text": "Ohm's acoustic law\n\nOhm's acoustic law, sometimes called the acoustic phase law or simply Ohm's law, states that a musical sound is perceived by the ear as a set of a number of constituent pure harmonic tones.\n\nThe law was proposed by physicist Georg Ohm in 1843. Hermann von Helmholtz elaborated the law into what is often today known as Ohm's acoustic law, by adding that the quality of a tone depends solely on the number and relative strength of its partial simple tones, and not on their relative phases. Helmholtz championed the law in opposition to contrary evidence expounded by August Seebeck.\n\nThe law has also been interpreted as \"a pitch corresponding to a certain frequency can only be heard if the acoustical wave contains power at that frequency.\"\n\nThese laws are true to the extent that the ear is sensitive to the frequency and amplitude of the acoustic waves, and further, is able to resolve the differences in their frequency. In modern times, the sensitivity of human hearing to the phase of tone components has been extensively investigated. Controversy has led to this characterization:\n"}
{"id": "43455760", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43455760", "title": "Owle Schreame Awards", "text": "Owle Schreame Awards\n\nThe Owle Schreame Awards were 2014 theatrical awards honouring innovation in classical theatre. They were awarded by Brice Stratford and his Owle Schreame theatre company in 2014 to commemorate the 450th anniversary of Shakespeare's birth.\n\nThe award itself was an engraved glass skull, in reference to the famous graveyard scene in Shakespeare's \"Hamlet\". Thirteen were awarded, and the award speeches were published. The awards covered all forms of historical theatrical performance.\n\nThe winners were:\n\n"}
{"id": "31882194", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31882194", "title": "Proceedings of the Institution of Mechanical Engineers", "text": "Proceedings of the Institution of Mechanical Engineers\n\nThe Proceedings of the Institution of Mechanical Engineers were first published by the Institution of Mechanical Engineers (IMechE) in 1847. The \"Proceedings\" were published under this single title until 1963, when they began to be published in two parts. The \"Proceedings\" have since expanded further, in part by incorporating four journals previously published separately: the \"Proceedings of the Institution of Automobile Engineers\" (in 1971), the \"Journal of the Institution of Locomotive Engineers\" (in 1971), the \"Journal of Mechanical Engineering Science\" (in 1983) and \"Engineering in Medicine\" (in 1989). Sixteen individual parts now make up the \"Proceedings\", as follows:\n\nIn 2010, SAGE Publications began publishing the Institution's journals on behalf of the IMechE.\n\nAs of May 2011, 14 of the journals that make up the \"Proceedings\" were included in the \"Journal Citation Reports\".\n"}
{"id": "951649", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=951649", "title": "Scopitone", "text": "Scopitone\n\nScopitone is a type of jukebox featuring a 16 mm film component. Scopitone films were a forerunner of music videos. The Italian Cinebox/Colorama and Color-Sonics were competing, lesser-known technologies of the time.\n\nBased on Soundies technology developed during World War II, color 16 mm film clips with a magnetic soundtrack were designed to be shown in a specially designed jukebox. The main difference between these and the earlier Soundies and Telescriptions was the fact that like all modern music videos, all Scopitones featured lip-sync to a pre-recorded track.\n\nBetween 1940 and 1946, three-minute musical films called Soundies (produced in New York City, Chicago and Hollywood) were displayed on a Panoram, the first coin-operated film jukebox or \"machine music\". These were set up in nightclubs, bars, restaurants and amusement centers.\n\nThe first Scopitones were made in France, by a company called Cameca on Blvd Saint Denis in Courbevoie, among them Serge Gainsbourg's \"Le poinçonneur des Lilas\" (filmed in 1958 in the Porte des Lilas Métro station), Johnny Hallyday's \"Noir c'est noir\" (a cover of Los Bravos' \"Black Is Black\") and the \"Hully Gully\" showing a dance around a swimming pool.\n\nScopitones spread to West Germany, where the Kessler Sisters burst out of twin steamer trunks to sing \"Quando Quando\" on the dim screen that surmounted the jukebox. Scopitone went on to appear in bars in England, including a coffee bar in Swanage where \"Telstar\" was a favourite. By 1964, approximately 500 machines were installed in the United States. By 1966, reportedly 800 machines were installed in bars and nightclubs in the US, at a cost of $3500 apiece.\n\nSeveral well-known acts of the 1960s appear in Scopitone films, ranging from the earlier part of the decade The Exciters (\"Tell Him\") and Neil Sedaka (\"Calendar Girl\") to Bobby Vee (\"The Night Has a Thousand Eyes\" and \"Baby Face\") and Procol Harum (\"A Whiter Shade of Pale\") later on. In one Scopitone recording, Dionne Warwick lay on a white shag rug with an offstage fan urging her to sing \"Walk On By\". Another had Nancy Sinatra and a troupe of go-go girls shimmy to \"These Boots Are Made for Walkin'\". Inspired by burlesque, blonde bombshell Joi Lansing performed \"Web of Love\" and \"The Silencer\", and Julie London sang \"Daddy\" against a backdrop of strippers. The artifice of such scenes led Susan Sontag to identify Scopitone films as \"part of the canon of Camp\" in her 1964 essay \"Notes on 'Camp'\".\n\nThe medium's inability to lure the superstar British Invasion acts of the era was a factor in its demise, as well as the declining taste of the subject matter. Several sources claim that The Back Porch Majority film for \"Mighty Mississippi\" from their album \"Riverboat Days\" (1964) was equally instrumental in bringing down the format for its so-called indecency. Against the wishes of the group and its producer Randy Sparks scenes of girls in 19th century period dress hiking up their hoop skirts were inserted into the performance. By the time protests could be raised and the offending material excised, the film had already gone out.\n\nEven though the popularity of the Scopitone had faded away by the end of the 1960s,the same concept was still in limited use throughout the 1970s by acts such as the Carpenters and ABBA both of whose early productions were shot on 16mm film before transitioning to videotape. The last official film for a Scopitone was made at the end of 1978. \n\nIn 2006, French singer Mareva Galanter released several videos which mimic the Scopitone style. Galenta's album \"Ukuyéyé\" features several songs in the French Yé-yé style. She also recently hosted a weekly French television program called \"Do you do you Scopitone\" on the Paris Première channel.\n\nIn 1990, a selection of Scopitones was screened at the Jewel Box theater in Seattle by Dennis Nyback.\n\nAs of 2012, one of the few Scopitones not in a museum or private collection in the United States is at Third Man Records in Nashville, Tennessee. Many Scopitone films have been released on DVD or made available on the internet.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "162707", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=162707", "title": "Singing", "text": "Singing\n\nSinging is the act of producing musical sounds with the voice and augments regular speech by the use of sustained tonality, rhythm, and a variety of vocal techniques. A person who sings is called a singer or vocalist (in jazz and popular music). Singers perform music (arias, recitatives, songs, etc.) that can be sung with or without accompaniment by musical instruments. Singing is often done in an ensemble of musicians, such as a choir of singers or a band of instrumentalists. Singers may perform as soloists or accompanied by anything from a single instrument (as in art song or some jazz styles) up to a symphony orchestra or big band. Different singing styles include art music such as opera and Chinese opera, Indian music and religious music styles such as gospel, traditional music styles, world music, jazz, blues, gazal and popular music styles such as pop, rock, electronic dance music and filmi (film songs).\n\nSinging can be formal or informal, arranged or improvised. It may be done as a form of religious devotion, as a hobby, as a source of pleasure, comfort or ritual, as part of music education or as a profession. Excellence in singing requires time, dedication, instruction and regular practice. If practice is done on a regular basis then the sounds can become more clear and strong. Professional singers usually build their careers around one specific musical genre, such as classical or rock, although there are singers with crossover success (singing in more than one genre). They typically take voice training provided by voice teachers or vocal coaches throughout their careers.\n\nIn its physical aspect, singing has a well-defined technique that depends on the use of the lungs, which act as an air supply or bellows; on the larynx, which acts as a reed or vibrator; on the chest, head cavities and skeleton, which have the function of an amplifier, as the tube in a wind instrument; and on the tongue, which together with the palate, teeth, and lips articulate and impose consonants and vowels on the amplified sound. Though these four mechanisms function independently, they are nevertheless coordinated in the establishment of a vocal technique and are made to interact upon one another. During passive breathing, air is inhaled with the diaphragm while exhalation occurs without any effort. Exhalation may be aided by the abdominal, internal intercostal and lower pelvis/pelvic muscles. Inhalation is aided by use of external intercostals, scalenes, and sternocleidomastoid muscles. The pitch is altered with the vocal cords. With the lips closed, this is called humming.\n\nThe sound of each individual's singing voice is entirely unique not only because of the actual shape and size of an individual's vocal cords but also due to the size and shape of the rest of that person's body. Humans have vocal folds which can loosen, tighten, or change their thickness, and over which breath can be transferred at varying pressures. The shape of the chest and neck, the position of the tongue, and the tightness of otherwise unrelated muscles can be altered. Any one of these actions results in a change in pitch, volume (loudness), timbre, or tone of the sound produced. Sound also resonates within different parts of the body and an individual's size and bone structure can affect the sound produced by an individual.\n\nSingers can also learn to project sound in certain ways so that it resonates better within their vocal tract. This is known as vocal resonation. Another major influence on vocal sound and production is the function of the larynx which people can manipulate in different ways to produce different sounds. These different kinds of laryngeal function are described as different kinds of vocal registers. The primary method for singers to accomplish this is through the use of the Singer's Formant; which has been shown to match particularly well to the most sensitive part of the ear's frequency range.\n\nIt has also been shown that a more powerful voice may be achieved with a fatter and fluid-like vocal fold mucosa. The more pliable the mucosa, the more efficient the transfer of energy from the airflow to the vocal folds.\n\n\"Vocal registration\" refers to the system of vocal registers within the voice. A register in the voice is a particular series of tones, produced in the same vibratory pattern of the vocal folds, and possessing the same quality. Registers originate in laryngeal function. They occur because the vocal folds are capable of producing several different vibratory patterns. Each of these vibratory patterns appears within a particular range of pitches and produces certain characteristic sounds. The occurrence of registers has also been attributed to effects of the acoustic interaction between the vocal fold oscillation and the vocal tract. The term \"register\" can be somewhat confusing as it encompasses several aspects of the voice. The term register can be used to refer to any of the following:\n\nIn linguistics, a register language is a language which combines tone and vowel phonation into a single phonological system. Within speech pathology, the term vocal register has three constituent elements: a certain vibratory pattern of the vocal folds, a certain series of pitches, and a certain type of sound. Speech pathologists identify four vocal registers based on the physiology of laryngeal function: the vocal fry register, the modal register, the falsetto register, and the whistle register. This view is also adopted by many vocal pedagogues.\n\nVocal resonation is the process by which the basic product of phonation is enhanced in timbre and/or intensity by the air-filled cavities through which it passes on its way to the outside air. Various terms related to the resonation process include amplification, enrichment, enlargement, improvement, intensification, and prolongation, although in strictly scientific usage acoustic authorities would question most of them. The main point to be drawn from these terms by a singer or speaker is that the end result of resonation is, or should be, to make a better sound. There are seven areas that may be listed as possible vocal resonators. In sequence from the lowest within the body to the highest, these areas are the chest, the tracheal tree, the larynx itself, the pharynx, the oral cavity, the nasal cavity, and the sinuses.\n\n\"Chest voice\" and \"head voice\" are terms used within vocal music. The use of these terms varies widely within vocal pedagogical circles and there is currently no one consistent opinion among vocal music professionals in regards to these terms. Chest voice can be used in relation to a particular part of the vocal range or type of vocal register; a vocal resonance area; or a specific vocal timbre. Head voice can be used in relation to a particular part of the vocal range or type of vocal register or a vocal resonance area. In Men, the head voice is commonly referred to as the falsetto.\n\nThe first recorded mention of the terms chest voice and head voice was around the 13th century, when it was distinguished from the \"throat voice\" (pectoris, guttoris, capitis—at this time it is likely that head voice referred to the falsetto register) by the writers Johannes de Garlandia and Jerome of Moravia. The terms were later adopted within bel canto, the Italian opera singing method, where chest voice was identified as the lowest and head voice the highest of three vocal registers: the chest, passagio, and head registers. This approach is still taught by some vocal pedagogists today. Another current popular approach that is based on the bel canto model is to divide both men and women's voices into three registers. Men's voices are divided into \"chest register\", \"head register\", and \"falsetto register\" and woman's voices into \"chest register\", \"middle register\", and \"head register\". Such pedagogists teach that the head register is a vocal technique used in singing to describe the resonance felt in the singer's head.\n\nHowever, as knowledge of physiology has increased over the past two hundred years, so has the understanding of the physical process of singing and vocal production. As a result, many vocal pedagogists, such as Ralph Appelman at Indiana University and William Vennard at the University of Southern California, have redefined or even abandoned the use of the terms chest voice and head voice. In particular, the use of the terms \"chest register\" and \"head register\" have become controversial since vocal registration is more commonly seen today as a product of laryngeal function that is unrelated to the physiology of the chest, lungs, and head. For this reason, many vocal pedagogists argue that it is meaningless to speak of registers being produced in the chest or head. They argue that the vibratory sensations which are felt in these areas are resonance phenomena and should be described in terms related to vocal resonance, not to registers. These vocal pedagogists prefer the terms \"chest voice\" and \"head voice\" over the term register. This view believes that the problems which people identify as register problems are really problems of resonance adjustment. This view is also in alignment with the views of other academic fields that study vocal registration including speech pathology, phonetics, and linguistics. Although both methods are still in use, current vocal pedagogical practice tends to adopt the newer more scientific view. Also, some vocal pedagogists take ideas from both viewpoints.\n\nThe contemporary use of the term chest voice often refers to a specific kind of vocal coloration or vocal timbre. In classical singing, its use is limited entirely to the lower part of the modal register or normal voice. Within other forms of singing, chest voice is often applied throughout the modal register. Chest timbre can add a wonderful array of sounds to a singer's vocal interpretive palette.\nHowever, the use of overly strong chest voice in the higher registers in an attempt to hit higher notes in the chest can lead to forcing. Forcing can lead consequently to vocal deterioration.\n\nIn European classical music and opera, voices are treated like musical instruments. Composers who write vocal music must have an understanding of the skills, talents, and vocal properties of singers. Voice classification is the process by which human singing voices are evaluated and are thereby designated into voice types. These qualities include but are not limited to vocal range, vocal weight, vocal tessitura, vocal timbre, and vocal transition points such as breaks and lifts within the voice. Other considerations are physical characteristics, speech level, scientific testing, and vocal registration. The science behind voice classification developed within European classical music has been slow in adapting to more modern forms of singing. Voice classification is often used within opera to associate possible roles with potential voices. There are currently several different systems in use within classical music including the German \"Fach\" system and the choral music system among many others. No system is universally applied or accepted.\n\nHowever, most classical music systems acknowledge seven different major voice categories. Women are typically divided into three groups: soprano, mezzo-soprano, and contralto. Men are usually divided into four groups: countertenor, tenor, baritone, and bass. When considering voices of pre-pubescent children an eighth term, treble, can be applied. Within each of these major categories, there are several sub-categories that identify specific vocal qualities like coloratura facility and vocal weight to differentiate between voices.\n\nWithin choral music, singers' voices are divided solely on the basis of vocal range. Choral music most commonly divides vocal parts into high and low voices within each sex (SATB, or soprano, alto, tenor, and bass). As a result, the typical choral situation gives many opportunities for misclassification to occur. Since most people have medium voices, they must be assigned to a part that is either too high or too low for them; the mezzo-soprano must sing soprano or alto and the baritone must sing tenor or bass. Either option can present problems for the singer, but for most singers, there are fewer dangers in singing too low than in singing too high.\n\nWithin contemporary forms of music (sometimes referred to as contemporary commercial music), singers are classified by the style of music they sing, such as jazz, pop, blues, soul, country, folk, and rock styles. There is currently no authoritative voice classification system within non-classical music. Attempts have been made to adopt classical voice type terms to other forms of singing but such attempts have been met with controversy. The development of voice categorizations were made with the understanding that the singer would be using classical vocal technique within a specified range using unamplified (no microphones) vocal production. Since contemporary musicians use different vocal techniques, microphones, and are not forced to fit into a specific vocal role, applying such terms as soprano, tenor, baritone, etc. can be misleading or even inaccurate.\n\nVocal pedagogy is the study of the teaching of singing. The art and science of vocal pedagogy has a long history that began in Ancient Greece and continues to develop and change today. Professions that practice the art and science of vocal pedagogy include vocal coaches, choral directors, vocal music educators, opera directors, and other teachers of singing.\n\nVocal pedagogy concepts are a part of developing proper vocal technique. Typical areas of study include the following:\n\nSinging when done with proper vocal technique is an integrated and coordinated act that effectively coordinates the physical processes of singing. There are four physical processes involved in producing vocal sound: respiration, phonation, resonation, and articulation. These processes occur in the following sequence:\nAlthough these four processes are often considered separately when studied, in actual practice, they merge into one coordinated function. With an effective singer or speaker, one should rarely be reminded of the process involved as their mind and body are so coordinated that one only perceives the resulting unified function. Many vocal problems result from a lack of coordination within this process.\n\nSince singing is a coordinated act, it is difficult to discuss any of the individual technical areas and processes without relating them to the others. For example, phonation only comes into perspective when it is connected with respiration; the articulators affect resonance; the resonators affect the vocal folds; the vocal folds affect breath control; and so forth. Vocal problems are often a result of a breakdown in one part of this coordinated process which causes voice teachers to frequently focus in intensively on one area of the process with their student until that issue is resolved. However, some areas of the art of singing are so much the result of coordinated functions that it is hard to discuss them under a traditional heading like phonation, resonation, articulation, or respiration.\n\nOnce the voice student has become aware of the physical processes that make up the act of singing and of how those processes function, the student begins the task of trying to coordinate them. Inevitably, students and teachers will become more concerned with one area of the technique than another. The various processes may progress at different rates, with a resulting imbalance or lack of coordination. The areas of vocal technique which seem to depend most strongly on the student's ability to coordinate various functions are:\n\nSinging is a skill that requires highly developed muscle reflexes. Singing does not require much muscle strength but it does require a high degree of muscle coordination. Individuals can develop their voices further through the careful and systematic practice of both songs and vocal exercises. Vocal exercises have several purposes, including warming up the voice; extending the vocal range; \"lining up\" the voice horizontally and vertically; and acquiring vocal techniques such as legato, staccato, control of dynamics, rapid figurations, learning to sing wide intervals comfortably, singing trills, singing melismas and correcting vocal faults.\n\nVocal pedagogists instruct their students to exercise their voices in an intelligent manner. Singers should be thinking constantly about the kind of sound they are making and the kind of sensations they are feeling while they are singing.\n\nLearning to sing is an activity that benefits from the involvement of an instructor. A singer does not hear the same sounds inside his head that others hear outside. Therefore, having a wise guide who can tell a student what kinds of sounds he or she is producing guides a singer to understand which of the internal sounds correspond to the desired sounds required by the style of singing the student aims to re-create.\n\nAn important goal of vocal development is to learn to sing to the natural limits of one's vocal range without any obvious or distracting changes of quality or technique. Vocal pedagogists teach that a singer can only achieve this goal when all of the physical processes involved in singing (such as laryngeal action, breath support, resonance adjustment, and articulatory movement) are effectively working together. Most vocal pedagogists believe in coordinating these processes by (1) establishing good vocal habits in the most comfortable tessitura of the voice, and then (2) slowly expanding the range.\n\nThere are three factors that significantly affect the ability to sing higher or lower:\n\n\nMcKinney says, \"These three factors can be expressed in three basic rules: (1) As you sing higher, you must use more energy; as you sing lower, you must use less. (2) As you sing higher, you must use more space; as you sing lower, you must use less. (3) As you sing higher, you must use more depth; as you sing lower, you must use less.\"\n\nThe singing process functions best when certain physical conditions of the body are put in place. The ability to move air in and out of the body freely and to obtain the needed quantity of air can be seriously affected by the posture of the various parts of the breathing mechanism. A sunken chest position will limit the capacity of the lungs, and a tense abdominal wall will inhibit the downward travel of the diaphragm. Good posture allows the breathing mechanism to fulfill its basic function efficiently without any undue expenditure of energy. Good posture also makes it easier to initiate phonation and to tune the resonators as proper alignment prevents unnecessary tension in the body. Vocal pedagogists have also noted that when singers assume good posture it often provides them with a greater sense of self-assurance and poise while performing. Audiences also tend to respond better to singers with good posture. Habitual good posture also ultimately improves the overall health of the body by enabling better blood circulation and preventing fatigue and stress on the body.\n\nThere are eight components of the ideal singing posture:\n\n\nNatural breathing has three stages: a breathing-in period, a breathing out period, and a resting or recovery period; these stages are not usually consciously controlled. Within singing, there are four stages of breathing: a breathing-in period (inhalation); a setting up controls period (suspension); a controlled exhalation period (phonation); and a recovery period.\n\nThese stages must be under conscious control by the singer until they become conditioned reflexes. Many singers abandon conscious controls before their reflexes are fully conditioned which ultimately leads to chronic vocal problems.\n\nVibrato is a technique in which a sustained note wavers very quickly and consistently between a higher and a lower pitch, giving the note a slight quaver. Vibrato is the pulse or wave in a sustained tone. Vibrato occurs naturally and is the result of proper breath support and a relaxed vocal apparatus. Some studies have shown that vibrato is the result of a neuromuscular tremor in the vocal folds. In 1922 Max Schoen was the first to make the comparison of vibrato to a tremor due to change in amplitude, lack of automatic control and it being half the rate of normal muscular discharge. Some singers use vibrato as a means of expression. Many successful artists can sing a deep, rich vibrato.\n\nVocal music is music performed by one or more singers, which are typically called songs, and which may be performed with or without instrumental accompaniment, in which singing provides the main focus of the piece. Vocal music is probably the oldest form of music since it does not require any instrument or equipment besides the voice. All musical cultures have some form of vocal music and there are many long-standing singing traditions throughout the world's cultures.Music which employs singing but does not feature it prominently is generally considered as instrumental music. For example, some blues rock songs may have a short, simple call-and-response chorus, but the emphasis in the song is on the instrumental melodies and improvisation. Vocal music typically features sung words called lyrics, although there are notable examples of vocal music that are performed using non-linguistic syllables or noises, sometimes as musical onomatopoeia. A short piece of vocal music with lyrics is broadly termed a song, although, in classical music, terms such as aria are typically used.\n\nVocal music is written in many different forms and styles which are often labeled within a particular genre of music. These genres include Indian classical music, Art music, popular music, traditional music, regional and national music, and fusions of those genres. Within these larger genres are many subgenres. For example, popular music would encompass blues, jazz, country music, easy listening, hip hop, rock music, and several other genres. There may also be a subgenre within a subgenre such as vocalese and scat singing in jazz.\n\nIn many modern pop musical groups, a lead singer performs the primary vocals or melody of a song, as opposed to a backing singer who sings backup vocals or the harmony of a song. Backing vocalists sing some, but usually not all, parts of the song often singing only in a song's refrain or humming in the background. An exception is five-part gospel a cappella music, where the lead is the highest of the five voices and sings a descant and not the melody. Some artists may sing both the lead and backing vocals on audio recordings by overlapping recorded vocal tracks.\n\nPopular music includes a range of vocal styles. Hip-hop uses rapping, the rhythmic delivery of rhymes in a rhythmic speech over a beat or without accompaniment. Some types of rapping consist mostly or entirely of speech and chanting, like the Jamaican \"toasting\". In some types of rapping, the performers may interpolate short sung or half-sung passages. Blues singing is based on the use of the blue notes–notes sung at a slightly lower pitch than that of the major scale for expressive purposes. In heavy metal and hardcore punk subgenres, vocal styles can include techniques such as screams, shouts, and unusual sounds such as the \"death growl\".\n\nOne difference between live performances in the popular and Classical genres is that whereas Classical performers often sing without amplification in small- to mid-size halls, in popular music, a microphone and PA system (amplifier and speakers) are used in almost all performance venues, even a small coffee house. The use of the microphone has had several impacts on popular music. For one, it facilitated the development of intimate, expressive singing styles such as \"crooning\" which would not have enough projection and volume if done without a microphone. As well, pop singers who use microphones can do a range of other vocal styles that would not project without amplification, such as making whispering sounds, humming, and mixing half-sung and sung tones. As well, some performers use the microphone's response patterns to create effects, such as bringing the mic very close to the mouth to get an enhanced bass response, or, in the case of hip-hop beatboxers, doing plosive \"p\" and \"b\" sounds into the mic to create percussive effects. It n the 2000s, controversy arose over the widespread use of electronic Auto-Tune pitch correction devices with recorded and live popular music vocals. Controversy has also arisen due to cases where pop singers have been found to be lip-syncing to a pre-recorded recording of their vocal performance or, in the case of the controversial act Milli Vanilli, lip-syncing to tracks recorded by other uncredited singers.\n\nWhile some bands use backup singers who only sing when they are onstage, it is common for backup singers in popular music to have other roles. In many rock and metal bands, the musicians doing backup vocals also play instruments, such as rhythm guitar, electric bass, or drums. In Latin or Afro-Cuban groups, backup singers may play percussion instruments or shakers while singing. In some pop and hip-hop groups and in musical theater, the backup singers may be required to perform elaborately choreographed dance routines while they sing through headset microphones.\n\nThe salaries and working conditions for vocalists vary a great deal. While jobs in other music fields such as music education tend to be based on full-time, salaried positions, singing jobs tend to be based on contracts for individual shows or performances, or for a sequence of shows\n\nAspiring singers and vocalists must have musical skill, an excellent voice, the ability to work with people, and a sense of showmanship and drama. Additionally, singers need to have the ambition and drive to continually study and improve,\nProfessional singers continue to seek out vocal coaching to hone their skills, extend their range, and learn new styles. As well, aspiring singers need to gain specialized skills in the vocal techniques used to interpret songs, learn about the vocal literature from their chosen style of music, and gain skills in choral music techniques, sight singing and memorizing songs, and vocal exercises.\n\nIn order to become independent and survive the competitive atmosphere and stay for a longer time and have a long career, singers must learn the skill of Music composing, Music producing and Lyrics writing, they should take advantage of social media platforms like YouTube and upload their musical contents. Many musicians gained popularity because of social media and got recognition, example Justin Bieber. After getting recognition and popularity for their \"original\" or \"cover\" songs, they can get offers for doing Live shows from the event organisers, which is a large source of income for musicians across the world, YouTube also pays if the channel of the singer in YouTube is popular and have significant amount of subscribers and viewership. This they can also monetise (earn revenues) from Streaming apps.\nThey must also take steps to market themselves to buyers of vocal talent, by doing auditions in front of an Music Director. Depending on the style of vocal music that a person has trained in, the \"talent buyers\" that they seek out may be Record company, A&R representatives, Music Director, choir directors, nightclub managers, or concert promoters. A CD or DVD with excerpts of vocal performances. Some singers hire an agent or manager to help them to seek out engagements and other performance opportunities; the agent or manager is often paid by receiving a percentage of the fees that the singer gets from performing onstage.\n\nIn recent years, the talent of singing has become competitive. Currently, there are several television shows that showcase these talents. \"American Idol\" was one of the prominent of these shows. Debuted in 2002, it was one of the first singing competition shows.The first singing reality show was Sa Re Ga Ma Pa launched by Zee TV in the 1995. At the American Idol Contestants audition in front of a panel of judges to see if they can move on to the next round in Hollywood, from then, the competition begins. The field of contestants is narrowed down week by week until a winner is chosen. In order to move on to the next round, the contestants fate is determined by public vote. \"The Voice\" is another well-known singing competition program. Similar to \"American Idol\", the contestants audition in front of a panel of judges, however, the judges chairs are faced towards the audience during the performance. If the coaches are interested in the artist, they will press their button signifying they want to coach them. Once the auditions conclude, coaches have their team of artists and the competition begins. Coaches then mentor their artists and they compete to find the best singer. Other well-known singing competitions include \"The X Factor\", \"America's Got Talent\", \"Rising Star\" and \"The Sing-Off\".\n\nScientific studies suggest that singing can have positive effects on people's health. A preliminary study based on self-reported data from a survey of students participating in choral singing found perceived benefits including increased lung capacity, improved mood, stress reduction, as well as perceived social and spiritual benefits. However, one much older study of lung capacity compared those with professional vocal training to those without, and failed to back up the claims of increased lung capacity. Singing may positively influence the immune system through the reduction of stress. One study found that both singing and listening to choral music reduces the level of stress hormones and increases immune function.\n\nA multinational collaboration to study the connection between singing and health was established in 2009, called \"Advancing Interdisciplinary Research in Singing\" (AIRS). Singing provides physical, cognitive, and emotional benefits to participants. When they step on stage, many singers forget their worries and focus solely on the song. Singing is becoming a more widely known method of increasing an individual's overall health and wellness, in turn helping them to battle diseases such as cancer more effectively due to decreased stress, releasing of endorphin's, and increased lung capacity.\n\nJohn Daniel Scott, among others, have cited that \"people who sing are more likely to be happy.\" This is because \"singing elevates the levels of neurotransmitters which are associated with pleasure and well being.\" Humans have a long prehistory of music, especially singing; before written language, stories were passed down through song, because song is often more memorable. There is also evidence that music or singing may have evolved in humans before language. Levitin, in his \"This is Your Brain on Music\", argues that \"music may be the activity that prepared our pre-human ancestors for speech communication\" and that \"singing ... might have helped our species to refine motor skills, paving the way for the development of the exquisitely fine muscle control required for vocal ... speech\" (260). On the other hand, he cites Pinker, who \"argued that language is an adaptation and music is its Spandrel ... an evolutionary accident piggybacking on language\" (248).\n\nStudies have found evidence suggesting the mental, as well as physical, benefits of singing. When conducting a study with 21 members of a choir at three different points over one year, three themes suggested three areas of benefits; the social impact (connectedness with others), personal impact (positive emotions, self-perception, etc.), and functional outcomes (health benefits of being in the choir). Findings showed that a sense of wellbeing is associated with singing, by uplifting the mood of the participants and releasing endorphins in the brain. Many singers also reported that the singing helped then regulate stress and relax, allowing them to deal better with their daily lives. From a social perspective, approval from the audience, and interaction with other choir members in a positive manner is also beneficial.\n\nSinging is beneficial for pregnant mothers. By giving them another medium of communication with their newborns, mothers in one study reported feelings of love and affection when singing to their unborn children. They also reported feeling more relaxed than ever before during their stressful pregnancy. A song can have nostalgic significance by reminding a singer of the past, and momentarily transport them, allowing them to focus on singing and embrace the activity as an escape from their daily lives and problems.\n\nA recent study by Tenovus Cancer Care found that singing in a choir for just one hour boosts levels of immune proteins in cancer patients and has a positive overall effect on the health of patients. The study explores the possibility that singing could help put patients in the best mental and physical shape to receive the treatment they need, by reducing stress hormones, and increasing quantities of cytokines- proteins of the immune system that can increase the body's ability to fight disease. \"Singing gives you physical benefits like breath control and muscle movement and enunciation, as well as the learning benefits of processing information\" says a musical director and accompanist in the study. The enunciation and speech benefits tie into the language benefits detailed below.\n\nA recent newspaper article by the \"Toronto Star\" states that everyone to sing, even if they are not musically talented, because of the benefits it has for the health of the individual. Singing lowers blood pressure by releasing pent up emotions, boosting relaxation and reminding them of happy times. It also allows singers to breathe more easily. Patients with lung disease and chronic pulmonary disease experience relief from their symptoms from singing just two times a week. In addition to breathing related illness, singing also has numerous benefits for stroke victims when it comes to relearning the ability to speak and communicate by singing their thoughts. Singing activates the right side of the brain when the left side cannot function (the left side is the area of the brain responsible for speech), so it is easy to see how singing can be an excellent alternative to speech while the victim heals.\n\nEvery natural or non natural language has its own intrinsic musicality which affects singing by means of pitch, phrasing and accent.\n\nMuch research has been done recently on the link between music and language, especially singing. It is becoming increasingly clear that these two processes are very much alike, and yet also different. Levitin describes how, beginning with the eardrum, sound waves are translated into pitch, or a tonotopic map, and then shortly thereafter \"speech and music probably diverge into separate processing circuits\" (130). There is evidence that neural circuits used for music and language may start out in infants undifferentiated. There are several areas of the brain that are used for both language and music. For example, Brodmann Area 47. Levitin recounts how in certain studies, \"listening to music and attending its syntactic features,\" similar to the syntactic processes in language, activated this part of the brain. In addition, \"musical syntax ... has been localized to ... areas adjacent to and overlapping with those regions that process speech syntax, such as Broca's area\" and \"the regions involved in musical semantics .. appear to be [localized] near Wernicke's area.\" Both Broca's area and Wernicke's area are important steps in language processing and production.\n\nSinging has been shown to help stroke victims recover speech. According to neurologist Gottfried Schlaug, there is a corresponding area to that of speech, which resides in the left hemisphere, on the right side of the brain. This is casually known as the \"singing center.\" By teaching stroke victims to sing their words, this can help train this area of the brain for speech. In support of this theory, Levitin asserts that \"regional specificity,\" such as that for speech, \"may be temporary, as the processing centers for important mental functions actually move to other regions after trauma or brain damage.\" Thus in the right hemisphere of the brain, the \"singing center\" may be retrained to help produce speech.\n\nThe speaking dialect or accent of a person may differ greatly from the general singing accent that a person uses while singing. When people sing, they generally use the accent or neutral accent that is used in the style of music they are singing in, rather than a regional accent or dialect; the style of music and the popular center/region of the style has more influence on the singing accent of a person than where they come from. For example, in the English language, British singers of rock or popular music often sing in an American accent or neutral accent instead of an English accent.\n\nScholars agree that singing is strongly present in many different species. Wide dispersal of singing behavior among very different animal species, like birds, gibbons, whales, and many others strongly suggests that singing appeared independently in different species. Currently, there are about 5400 species of animals that are known to sing. At least some singing species demonstrate the ability to learn their songs, to improvise and even to compose new melodies. In some animal species singing is a group activity (see, for example, singing in gibbon families).\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57176627", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57176627", "title": "Sixth April Award of Sarajevo", "text": "Sixth April Award of Sarajevo\n\nThe Sixth April Award of Sarajevo () is the highest decoration given by the city of Sarajevo. Recipients are awarded for their continuous work and achievements in the fields of science, business, education, technology, health care, art and sports. The award is given annually by the City Assembly of Sarajevo.\n\nMilitary operations in World War II in Yugoslavia began on 6 April 1941, when the Kingdom of Yugoslavia was swiftly conquered by Axis forces and partitioned between Germany, Italy, Hungary, Bulgaria and client regimes. Following a German bombing campaign, Sarajevo, along with the rest of Bosnia and Herzegovina, was conquered by the Ustashe Croatian fascist Independent State of Croatia, a puppet state of Nazi Germany. Many of the city's Serbs, Romani, and Jews were taken at this time and killed in the Holocaust. The city's resistance was led by Yugoslav Partisan commander, Vladimir Perić, known by his nom de guerre \"Walter\". With an Allied victory on the horizon, Adolf Hitler personally issued a directive on 15 February 1945 ordering the holding of Sarajevo. After ferocious fighting the city was finally liberated on 6 April 1945 by the National Liberation Army of Yugoslavia. The date has since been known as Sarajevo City Day. In 1956 the City Assembly of Sarajevo established the Sixth April Award of Sarajevo.\n"}
{"id": "1862929", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1862929", "title": "Soft-paste porcelain", "text": "Soft-paste porcelain\n\nSoft-paste porcelain (sometimes simply \"soft paste\", or \"artificial porcelain\") is a type of ceramic material in pottery, usually accepted as a type of porcelain. It is weaker than \"true\" hard-paste porcelain, and does not require either the high firing temperatures or the special mineral ingredients needed for that. There are many types, using a range of materials. The material originated in the attempts by many European potters to replicate hard-paste Chinese export porcelain, especially in the 18th century, and the best versions match hard-paste in whiteness and translucency, but not in strength. But the look and feel of the material can be highly attractive, and it can take painted decoration very well.\n\nThe ingredients varied considerably, but always included clay, often ball clay, and often ground glass, bone ash, soapstone (steatite), flint, and quartz. They rarely included the key ingredients necessary for hard-paste, china clay including kaolin, or the English china stone, although some manufacturers included one or other of these, but failed to get their kilns up to a hard-paste firing temperature. They were called \"soft paste\" (after the French \"pâte tendre\") either because the material is softer in the kiln, and prone to \"slump\", or their firing temperatures are lower compared with hard-paste porcelain, or, more likely, because the finished products actually are far softer than hard-paste, and early versions were much easier to scratch or break, as well as being prone to shatter when hot liquid was suddenly poured into them.\n\nThe German Meissen porcelain had developed hard-paste porcelain by 1708, and later German factories usually managed to find the secret out from former Meissen employees, beginning with Vienna porcelain in 1718. The other European countries had much longer to wait, but most factories eventually switched from soft to hard-paste, having discovered both the secret and a source of kaolin. In France kaolin was only found in Limousin in 1768, and Sèvres produced both types from 1769, before finally dropping soft-paste in 1804. In England there was a movement in a different direction, as Spode's formula for bone china, developed in the 1790s, was adopted by most other factories by about 1820. By that point little soft-paste porcelain was being made anywhere, and little hard-paste in England, with Nantgarw and Swansea in Wales among the last factories making soft-paste. \n\nThere were early attempts by European potters to replicate Chinese porcelain when its composition was little understood and its constituents were not widely available in the West. The earliest formulations were mixtures of clay and ground-up glass (frit). Soapstone (steatite) and lime are also known to have been included in some compositions. The first successful attempt was Medici porcelain, produced between 1575 and 1587. It was composed of white clay containing powdered feldspar, calcium phosphate and wollastonite (CaSiO3), with quartz. Other early European soft-paste porcelain, also a frit porcelain, was produced at the Rouen manufactory in 1673, which was known for this reason as \"Porcelaine française\". Again, these were developed in an effort to imitate high-valued Chinese hard-paste porcelain. As these early formulations slumped in the kiln at high temperatures, they were difficult and uneconomic to use. Later formulations used kaolin (china clay), quartz, feldspars, nepheline syenite and other feldspathic rocks. Soft-paste porcelain with these ingredients was technically superior to the traditional soft-paste and these formulations remain in production.\n\nSoft-paste formulations containing little clay are not very plastic and shaping it on the potter's wheel is difficult. Pastes with more clay (now more commonly referred to as \"bodies\"), such as electrical porcelain, are extremely plastic and can be shaped by methods such as jolleying and turning. The feldspathic formulations are, however, more resilient and suffer less pyroplastic deformation. Soft-paste is fired at lower temperatures than hard-paste porcelain, typically around 1100 °C for the frit based compositions and 1200 to 1250 °C for those using feldspars or nepheline syenites as the primary flux. The lower firing temperature gives artists and manufacturers some benefits, including a wider palette of colours for decoration and reduced fuel consumption. The body of soft-paste is more granular than hard-paste porcelain, less glass being formed in the firing process.\n\nAccording to one expert, with a background in chemistry, \"The definition of porcelain and its soft-paste and hard-paste varieties is fraught with misconceptions\", and various categories based on the analysis of the ingredients have been proposed instead. Some writers have proposed a \"catch-all\" category of \"hybrid\" porcelain, to include bone china and various \"variant\" bodies made at various times. \nAt least in the past, some sources dealing with modern industrial chemistry and pottery production have made a completely different distinction between \"hard porcelain\" and \"soft porcelain\", by which all forms of pottery porcelain, including East Asian wares, are \"soft porcelain\".\n\nChinese porcelain, which arrived in Europe before the 14th century, was much admired and expensive to purchase. Attempts were made to imitate it from the 15th century onwards but its composition was little understood. Its translucency suggested that glass might be an ingredient, so many experiments combined clay with powdered glass (frit), including the porcelain made in Florence in the late 16th century under the patronage of the Medicis. In Venice there were experiments supposedly using opaque glass alone.\n\nGerman factories either made hard-paste from their foundation, like Meissen, Vienna, Ludwigsburg, Frankenthal and later factories, or obtained the secret and switched. France did in fact make hard-paste at Strasbourg in 1752-54, until Louis XV gave his own factory, Vincennes, a monopoly, at which point the factory moved to become the Frankenthal operation.\n\nEarly factories in France, England, Italy, Denmark, Sweden, Holland, Switzerland and other countries made soft-paste, the switch to hard-paste generally coming after 1750, with France and England rather in the rear, as explained below. The American China Manufactory (or Bonnin and Morris) in Philadelphia, America's first successful porcelain factory, also made soft-paste from about 1770-72. \n\nExperiments at the Rouen manufactory produced the earliest soft-paste in France, when a 1673 patent was granted to Louis Poterat, but it seems that not much was made. An application for the renewal of the patent in 1694 stated, \"the secret was very little used, the petitioners devoting themselves rather to faience-making\". Rouen porcelain, which is blue painted, is rare and difficult to identify.\n\nThe first important French porcelain was made at the Saint-Cloud factory, which was an established maker of faience. In 1702, letters-patent were granted to the family of Pierre Chicaneau, who were said to have improved upon the process discovered by him, and since 1693 to have made porcelain as \"perfect as the Chinese\". The typical blue-painted Saint-Cloud porcelain, says Honey, \"is one of the most distinct and attractive of porcelains, and not the least part of its charm lies in the quality of the material itself. It is rarely of a pure white, but the warm yellowish or ivory tone of the best wares of the period is sympathetic and by no means a shortcoming; and while actually very soft and glassy, it has a firm texture unlike any other. The glaze often shows a fine satin-like pitting of the surface that helps to distinguish it from the brilliant shiny glaze of Mennecy, which is otherwise similar. The heavy build of the pieces is also characteristic and is saved from clumsiness by a finer sense of mass, revealed in the subtly graduated thickness of wall and a delicate shaping of edges.\"\n\nLouis Henry de Bourbon, prince de Condé established a soft-paste factory on the grounds of his château de Chantilly in 1730; Chantilly porcelain continued to be made after his death in 1740.\n\nA soft-paste factory was opened at Mennecy by François Barbin in 1750. The Vincennes porcelain factory was established in 1740 under the supervision of Claude-Humbert Gérin, who had previously been employed at Chantilly. The factory moved to larger premises at Sèvres in 1756. A superior soft-paste was developed at Vincennes, whiter and freer of imperfections than any of its French rivals, which put Vincennes/Sèvres porcelain in the leading position in France and throughout the whole of Europe in the second half of the 18th century.\n\nThe use of frit in this paste lent it the names \"Frittenporzellan\" in Germany and \"frita\" in Spain. In France it was known as \"pâte tendre\" and in England \"soft-paste\", perhaps because it does not easily retain its shape in the wet state, or because it tends to slump in the kiln under high temperature, or because the body and the glaze can be easily scratched. (Scratching with a file is a crude way of finding out whether a piece is made of soft-paste or not.)\n\nThe first soft-paste in England was demonstrated by Thomas Briand to the Royal Society in 1742 and is believed to have been based on the Saint-Cloud formula. In 1749, Thomas Frye, a portrait painter, took out a patent on a porcelain containing bone ash. This was the first bone china, subsequently perfected by Josiah Spode.\n\nRecipes were closely guarded, as illustrated by the story of Robert Brown, a founding partner in the Lowestoft factory, who is said to have hidden in a barrel in Bow to observe the mixing of their porcelain. A partner in Longton Hall referred to \"the Art, Secret or Mystery\" of porcelain.\n\nIn the fifteen years after Briand's demonstration, several factories were founded in England to make soft-paste table-wares and figures:\n\nUnlike the European product, Chinese porcelain began with hard-paste, and it is common to regard all Chinese production as hard-paste, until bone china began to be made there in the 20th century. However, a classification of \"Chinese soft-paste porcelain\" is often recognised by museums and auction-houses, though its existence may be denied by others. \n\nIt refers to pieces of Chinese porcelain, mostly from the first half of the 18th century, that are less translucent than most Chinese porcelain and have a rather milky-white glaze, which is prone to crackling. Some regard it as essentially made from a hard-paste body that did not reach a sufficiently high firing temperature, or uses a different glaze formula. It takes underglaze cobalt blue painting especially well, and is presumably the ware using \"huashi\" mentioned by Father François Xavier d'Entrecolles in his published letters describing Chinese production.\n\nHard-paste porcelain was successfully produced at Meissen in 1708 by Ehrenfried Walther von Tschirnhaus, though Johann Friedrich Böttger who continued his work has often been credited with the discovery of this recipe. As the recipe was kept secret, experiments continued elsewhere, mixing glass materials (fused and ground into a frit) with clay or other substances to give whiteness and a degree of plasticity. Plymouth porcelain, founded in 1748, which moved to Bristol soon after, was the first English factory to make hard-paste.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39950100", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39950100", "title": "Sos mi hombre", "text": "Sos mi hombre\n\nSos mi hombre () is an Argentine telenovela, which aired on El Trece in 2012-2013. It starred Luciano Castro and Celeste Cid.\n\nThe two telenovelas made by Pol-Ka at the beginning of 2012, \"Lobo\" and the second season of \"Los únicos\", were cancelled because of poor ratings. \"Graduados\", a fiction aired in the rival channel Telefe, became a huge success. As a result, Pol-Ka rushed the creation of a new telenovela, \"Sos mi hombre\", that filled the timeslot of \"Lobo\". The main actors were Luciano Castro and Celeste Cid. Although \"Sos mi hombre\" did not prevail against \"Graduados\" either, it had better rating than the previous telenovelas. The last episode had 12,8 rating points.\n\nThe program was nominated for the 2013 edition of the Martín Fierro Awards, as best daily fiction. Other nominations are: Luciano Castro as best lead actor of daily fiction, Celeste Cid as lead actress in fiction, Osvaldo Laport as best guest star, Joaquín Furriel as secondary actor in daily fiction, and Eugenia Tobal as secondary actress in daily fiction.\n\nThe writer Adriana Lorenzón (who wrote \"El elegido\", \"Por amor a vos\" and \"Los Roldán\") and the actor Pepe Monje accused the program of being similar to another one they wrote 2 years before. Their program, called \"Fuego en tu boca\" (), only had a pilot episode and was never aired. The plot was about a boxer from the La Boca neighbourhood, who also works as a firefighter. Actors Juan Palomino, Maximiliano Guerra, Chechu Bonelli, Jorgelina Aruzzi and Luís Machín worked in that production as well.\n\nThe TV channel El Trece replied that the main idea of the telenovela had already been proposed to actor Facundo Arana in 2004, predating both series. The portrayal of the world of box is also similar to previous productions from Pol-Ka, such as \"Campeones\".\n\nRingo is a retired boxer, facing economic problems and trying to gain the child custody of his son. He works as a volunteer firefighter. Camila is a young doctor, who works in public hospitals and helps in social diners.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36966745", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36966745", "title": "Syrian Archaeological Heritage Under Threat", "text": "Syrian Archaeological Heritage Under Threat\n\nSyrian Archaeological Heritage Under Threat, also known as Syrian Archaeological Heritage in Danger, Patrimoine Syrien or Le patrimoine archéologique syrien en danger () is a cultural heritage activist group that runs a Facebook page documenting the damage to Syrian and World Heritage during the Syrian Civil War.\n\nThe group was founded by Ali Othman and is led by several Syrian and European archaeologists including Ghayad Daoud, Shaker al Shbib and Taysir al Halebi. The spokesman for the group is Spanish archaeologist Rodrigo Martin, who remarked about the damage being done during the conflict \"If this continues, the situation will be like in Iraq, it could mean that a heritage that is of great importance for the whole world destroyed.\"\n\nThe group is not entirely based in Syria, coordinating with colleagues and other sources inside to post photographs and reports. The Facebook page compiles a list of heritage sites damaged during the Syrian Civil War and the aim of the group is to make the world pay greater attention to the heritage catastrophe likely to occur in the area and disseminate information about it.\n\n"}
{"id": "48393926", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48393926", "title": "Tape art", "text": "Tape art\n\nTape art is an artwork created with adhesive tape such as duct tape or packing tape. It developed from urban art in the 1960s, as an alternative to the widely spread use of spray cans in the urban art scene. Tape can be used to produce a \"stained glass\" effect when applied to glass or plastic which is lit from behind. It can be attached to a wall to form the outline or an image, or can be shaped into three-dimensional sculptures.\n\nTape artists such as Max Zorn show their work at art fairs including Art Basel Miami.\n\nTape art can be installed quickly and almost silently, making it suitable for small or temporary urban art projects. No masking or covering is necessary. Tape is relatively easy to handle, and can be applied to various surfaces, such as stone, asphalt, wood, aluminum, sandwich panels or glass. Interior installations work just as well as exterior ones. Unlike spray paint art, tape art can be removed easily without leaving a permanent mark.\n\nMaterials for tape art vary depending on which tape is being used. Tape art can use duct tape, packing tape, masking tape or other products. Unlike traditional paintings and sculptures, tape art can be applied anywhere, including the doors, ceilings and floors of galleries. Duct tape can be used to construct three-dimensional sculptures.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34028611", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34028611", "title": "ThanksKilling", "text": "ThanksKilling\n\nThanksKilling is a 2008 horror black comedy film written and directed by Jordan Downey, and co-written by Brad Schulz, Tony Wilson, Grant Yaffee, and Kevin Stewart. It was followed by a 2013 sequel titled \"ThanksKilling 3\", the $112,248 budget of which was raised on through Kickstarter campaign.\n\nAt the first Thanksgiving in 1621, a topless Pilgrim is slain with a tomahawk wielded by an evil demonic turkey, which quips, \"Nice tits, bitch!\"\n\nCenturies later, five college students (good girl Kristen, jock Johnny, ditzy Ali, redneck Billy, and nerdy Darren) head home to Crawl Berg (formerly Crawberg) for Thanksgiving with their families. After Kristen calls her father, the local sheriff, the car overheats, forcing the quintet to camp out for the night. As they are setting up, Darren tells the settler-era folktale of Feathercloud, a Native American shaman who was dishonored by hedonistic pilgrim Chuck Langston, one of Billy's ancestors. The outraged Feathercloud used necromancy to create Turkie, who is said to appear every five-hundred and five years to slaughter all Caucasians he encounters.\n\nElsewhere, a dog owned by a hermit named Oscar urinates on a miniature totem pole, desecrating it, and releasing Turkie prematurely and urinating on him as well. Angry, Turkie kills the dog, prompting Oscar to swear vengeance as Turkie runs off, and scares Kristen. Kristen tells the others about her run-in with Turkie, but they laugh off her story, until a baby rabbit (which appears to have been pecked to death) is thrown into their campfire. The next day, Turkie flags down a vehicle, and when the driver sexually propositions him, Turkie responds by shooting the man in the head and hijacking his car. By nightfall, the students reach their respective homes, and while Johnny tries to reconnect with his estranged father, Turkie attacks him. Johnny's parents are killed, but he escapes, and rejoins his friends with the exception of Ali, who is having sex with her boyfriend, Greg. Turkie walks in on the lovers, slits Greg's throat, and rapes Ali before snapping her neck.\n\nAfter finding Ali's remains, the students decide to go to Kristen's house, to see if her father has any books about Turkie in his library. Turkie beats them there, tricking Kristen's father (who is dressed as a turkey for an upcoming pageant) into letting him in by wearing Groucho glasses. As they wait for Kristen, Turkie and the sheriff share an awkward snack, which ends when Turkie murders the sheriff after he mistakes him for a duck. Kristen and her friends arrive, and are allowed in by Turkie, who has donned the sheriff's severed face as a disguise. Darren finds a book about Turkie, and it mentions he can be killed if his magic talisman is removed, though the rest of the passage about how to destroy him is written in code. Billy stumbles onto Turkie disposing of the sheriff's body, and while he and the others succeed in getting the talisman, Turkie gets away.\n\nBilly storms off while Darren cracks the code in the book, discovering that Turkie must be burned at the stake after a demonic prayer is said backwards. Outside, Turkie magically enters Billy's body, and shoots his way out. Billy dies in Darren's arms as they reminisce about all the good times they had together. Darren, Kristen, and Johnny track Turkie to his tipi and say the prayer, but as they prepare to burn him he runs outside, and is shot in the head by Oscar. Oscar leaves, and the others go to Kristen's house, unaware that the dumpster Turkie was blasted into contains radioactive waste, which reanimates him.\n\nBelieving that Turkie is dead, the surviving teens go back to Kristen's house. While Johnny and Kristen admit their feelings for each other, Darren awkwardly goes to the kitchen to get a snack. There, Turkie rips Darren's tongue and heart out, and stabs Johnny with an electric knife. As Johnny dies, Kristen sets Turkie on fire with an aerosol flamethrower, and knocks him into a pile of wood. Later, at a family's Thanksgiving dinner, the cooked turkey comes to life, and in Turkie's voice yells, \"Do I smell sequel, biotch?!\"\n\n\n\"ThanksKilling\" was shot on a budget of $3,500 in the summer of 2007, and released on DVD in 2009.\n\n\"ThanksKilling\" was called \"cheerily awful\" by Tom Russo of \"The Boston Globe\". Mark Hughes of \"Forbes\" stated, \"It's a comedy-horror movie, but even the humor is awful. But it's so darn awful that it doesn't even need \"Mystery Science Theater 3000\" voice-over jokes to be entertainingly terrible. If you can enjoy laughing at a bad movie, definitely add this one to your list\". DVD Verdict's Gordon Sullivan responded well to the film, writing, \"In some ways there's nothing special about \"ThanksKilling\"—it's a typical slasher-style creature-feature where a group of college kids are menaced by a holiday themed killer who spouts one liners. However, \"ThanksKilling\" knows how to tickle the low-budget funny bone in particularly effective ways\" and \"The film itself is a campy low-budget horror flick that gets in and out in little over an hour, delivering the goods all the while. The extras are a little slight, but overall, this disc should please genre fans\".\n\n"}
{"id": "8538374", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8538374", "title": "The Last Mimzy", "text": "The Last Mimzy\n\nThe Last Mimzy is a 2007 American science fiction adventure drama film directed by Robert Shaye and loosely adapted from the 1943 science fiction short story \"Mimsy Were the Borogoves\" by Lewis Padgett (the pseudonym of husband-and-wife team Henry Kuttner and C. L. Moore). The film features Timothy Hutton, Joely Richardson, Rainn Wilson, Kathryn Hahn, Michael Clarke Duncan, and introducing Rhiannon Leigh Wryn as seven-year-old Emma Wilder and Chris O’Neil as ten-year-old Noah.\n\nPresented as a story to a group of students by their teacher Lena that takes place in the distant future, \"The Last Mimzy\" is the story of the attempt by humans in the distant future to avert a catastrophic ecological disaster that has destroyed their world. Humanity has become \"isolated and warlike,\" and one scientist is desperately working to save the earth and its people. High-tech devices disguised as toys are sent back in time, where they are found by Noah (Chris O'Neil) and Emma (Rhiannon Leigh Wryn) Wilder, children living in early-21st-century Seattle. The \"toys\" are incomprehensible to them, except for what appears to be a stuffed rabbit. Sensing the paranormal strangeness of the devices, the children initially keep their discovery secret from their parents.\n\nEmma becomes telepathically connected to the stuffed rabbit, and learns its name, Mimzy, and other information from it, acknowledging it as her teacher. Interaction with the devices causes the children to develop advanced knowledge, genius-level intelligence and psionic abilities. Due to her psychic connection with Mimzy, Emma's development of her abilities is much stronger than her older brother's; she is the only one to display empathy, telepathy, levitation, and telekinesis (though Noah can also communicate with her once she has telepathically contacted him). Emma is also the only one who can use the \"spinners\", small rocks that when spun, telekinetically float and can produce a force-field. Noah's own psionic/physic abilities are developed through a green card and a seashell. He gains increased intelligence, knowledge, telepathy, empathic communication and control over arthropods. He can also use the card to telekinetically teleport objects through a small dimensional rift after staring at it and observing his surroundings. At one point, Noah becomes somewhat envious of his sister's psionic prowess, but she reveals to him that even though she is the \"chosen one', he is her chosen \"engineer\" and she cannot \"build the bridge to the future\" without him.\n\nThe children's astounding psionic and extrasensory abilities and Emma's attachment to Mimzy alert their parents, especially their mother, and Larry White, Noah's science schoolteacher, to the devices. Later, Noah accidentally fuses the card with a blue blob, turning it into a \"generator\" that causes a power black-out over half the state of Washington, alerting the FBI to their activities. The family is held for questioning by Special Agent Nathaniel Broadman (Michael Clarke Duncan), and it is revealed that Mimzy is actually a highly advanced form of artificial life utilizing nanotechnology created by Intel. Emma tells everyone that Mimzy has a message from humanity's distant future. She explains that pollution has corrupted humanity's DNA, and many toy rabbits like Mimzy have been sent to the past, since no natural life forms can survive time travel, but none have successfully returned. Mimzy is the last one remaining, but she is now beginning to disintegrate. The reason for the other Mimzys' deaths is that the \"chosen ones\" before Emma had no \"engineers\" (like Noah) to help build the bridge across time. Emma and Noah must build the bridge by using the other toys to activate a time portal, so that they can return Mimzy to the future with uncorrupted 21st-century human DNA that the people of the future can use to correct the damage to their DNA caused by ecological problems.\n\nDespite attempts by the unbelieving FBI to prevent them, Noah and Emma use their psionic abilities to escape so that they can activate the portal. Before leaving, Mimzy absorbs a tear from Emma, thus providing the DNA required to restore humanity's corrupted DNA. Emma is almost sucked into the future with Mimzy, but Noah grabs Emma and pulls her out of the portal just as Mimzy is sent back to its own time. Following the transport, Noah's science teacher, who was present at the event, claims that he saw \"numbers\", a reference to a previous dream he had with numbers in it, which turned out to be the winning lottery numbers, but missed out because he never bought a ticket—thus exciting his fiancée about this second opportunity. Back in the future setting, Mimzy is returned to the future, and humans are finally able to restore their DNA and abandon their protective suits, and more importantly, repair the \"mental corruption\" that stripped most of them of their feelings toward each other. The teacher ends the story time and the children levitate and fly home. The world in their time has become a beautiful place, where humanity has integrated into the reconstructed ecosystems.\n\nThe story ends in the current time, with Emma's teacher (Julia Arkos) asking if anyone did anything exciting over the weekend break. No one volunteers, so she calls on Emma at random, who merely smiles.\n\n\nMackenzie Hamilton and Calum Worthy cameo as Teenage Cyborgs\n\nWell-known string theorist Brian Greene has a cameo appearance as an Intel scientist.\n\nThe \"toys\" are high-tech devices sent from the future by a scientist to obtain uncorrupted DNA. They were sent in a box that has three compartments despite its outside appearance suggesting it has only one. The floor of the first compartment opens to access the second; the floor of the second compartment opens to access the third. The \"toys\" all have special abilities and are able to give Emma and Noah genius-level intelligence and psionic abilities of their own.\n\nThe \"toys\" can be used to send Mimzy back to its original time period. To do this, the green card is first fused with the blue blob to create a \"generator\". Then, the \"spinners\" are used to create a force field. Finally, the \"generator\" must be used to create energy and blast it at the force field, giving it the power needed for the transmission. This can only be done once. After that, the remaining \"toys\" break and cannot be used again.\n\n\"The Last Mimzy\" is loosely based on the classic science fiction short story \"Mimsy Were the Borogoves\" by Lewis Padgett, the pen name of collaborators Henry Kuttner & C. L. Moore; the story appeared in John W. Campbell's magazine \"Astounding\" in 1943. Both the film's and short story's titles are derived from third line of the nonsense verse poem \"Jabberwocky\" in Lewis Carroll's novel \"Through the Looking-Glass, and What Alice Found There\". The adapted screenplay is by Bruce Joel Rubin and Toby Emmerich. The film’s production team also included editor Alan Heim and sound designer Dane Davis. Visual effects were created by The Orphanage, and location filming was done in Roberts Creek and Collingwood School.\n\n\"The Last Mimzy\" grossed nearly $21.5 million in North America and $6.1 million in other countries for a worldwide total of $27.5 million,\n\nCritical response to \"The Last Mimzy\" was mixed, and ranged from saying that it holds appeal for family audiences—especially children—to describing the storyline as distracting. On review aggregator Rotten Tomatoes, the film has an approval rating of 54% based on 124 reviews, with an average score of 5.8/10. The site's critical consensus states, \"\"The Last Mimzy\" makes efforts to be a fun children's movie, but unsuccessfully juggles too many genres and subplots—eventually settling as an unfocused, slightly dull affair\" On Metacritic, the film had a score of 59 out of 100, based on 25 critics, indicating \"mixed or average reviews\".\n\nJeannette Catsoulis of \"The New York Times\" called it, \"Wholesome, eager entertainment that doesn't talk down\", agreeing with Ken Fox of TV Guide's \"Movie Guide\" who said it was \"a thoughtful and sincere interpretation that actually get kids and their guardians thinking and talking.\" Calling the film \"lightweight\", the \"Atlanta Journal-Constitution\" rated it a \"small gem\". \"The Chicago Sun-Times\" went as far as to say \"The Last Mimzy\" is an \"emotionless empty shell\" compared to \"E.T. the Extra-Terrestrial\". Critics diverge about the scientific validity of the film. Reviewer Susan Granger said, \"There's some validity to the challenging science depicted in the film, according to Brian Greene, Columbia University physics professor, and Susan Smalley, UCLA neurobehavioral genetics professor\"; by contrast, Rick Norwood (The SF Site) writes, \"The Last Mimzy has carefully expunged all of the ideas from the story, and replaced them with the New Age nonsense that passes for ideas these days. They have also taken a very personal story about one family and a box of toys from the future and turned it into an epic story in which childlike innocence saves the human race\".\n\nThe soundtrack for the film was composed by Howard Shore, the award-winning composer behind the scores of \"The Lord of the Rings\" film trilogy. Former Pink Floyd member Roger Waters also collaborated on a song called \"Hello (I Love You)\". \"I think together we've come up with a song that captures the themes of the movie—the clash between humanity's best and worst instincts, and how a child's innocence can win the day\", Roger Waters commented.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36069631", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36069631", "title": "Umhlanga Lagoon Nature Reserve", "text": "Umhlanga Lagoon Nature Reserve\n\nUmhlanga lagoon is a nature reserve on the shore of the Indian Ocean at Umhlanga Rocks, South Africa. The reserve encloses the Ohlanga River's lagoon and mouth. The forest forms a natural extension of the less accessible Hawaan Forest, of which the greater part lies inland of the busy M4 road. The reserve trails start at a car park at the northern end of Lagoon Drive, Umhlanga.\n\nThe reserve has picnic sites, the remains of a prehistoric shell midden and walking trails, with a walkway and pedestrian bridge that span the lagoon.\n\nAt the mouth of the Ohlanga lagoon there is a popular but unofficial nudist beach. Increased use of the area by non-nudist walkers and families resulted in complaints about nudism and antisocial behaviour. The area was at one time a ‘no-go’ area, due to a serious crime problem.\nThe use of this area by naturists is under threat as the eThekwini Metropolitan Municipality is planning a clamp down on nudity in Durban.\n\n"}
{"id": "247712", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=247712", "title": "Universal translator", "text": "Universal translator\n\nA universal translator is a device common to many science fiction works, especially on television. First described in Murray Leinster's 1945 novella \"First Contact\", the translator's purpose is to offer an instant translation of any language. Technology companies are striving to develop a practical \"universal\" translator for common use.\n\nAs a convention, it is used to remove the problem of translating between alien languages, unless that problem is essential to the plot. To translate a new language in every episode when a new species or culture is encountered would consume time (especially when most of these shows have a half-hour or one-hour format) normally allotted for plot development and would potentially, across many episodes, become repetitive to the point of annoyance. Occasionally, alien races can extrapolate the rules of English from little speech and then immediately be fluent in it, making the translator unnecessary.\n\nWhile a \"universal\" translator seems unlikely, due to the apparent need for telepathy, scientists continue to work towards similar real-world technologies involving small numbers of known languages.\n\nAs a rule, a universal translator is instantaneous, but if that language has never been recorded, there is sometimes a time delay until the translator can properly work out a translation, as is true of \"Star Trek\". Some writers seek greater plausibility by instead having computer translation that requires collecting a database of the new language, often by listening to radio transmissions.\n\nThe existence of a universal translator is sometimes problematic in film and television productions from a logical perspective (for example, aliens who still speak English when no universal translator is in evidence and all characters appear to hear the appropriately translated speech instead of the original speech, the ability to speak in the language when direct translation is possible), and requires some suspension of disbelief when characters' mouths move in sync with the translated words and not the original language; nonetheless, it removes the need for cumbersome and potentially extensive subtitles, and it eliminates the rather unlikely supposition that every other race in the galaxy has gone to the trouble of learning English.\n\nUsing a telepathic field, the TARDIS automatically translates most comprehensible languages (written and spoken) into a language understood by its pilot and each of the crew members. The field also translates what they say into a language appropriate for that time and location (e.g., speaking the appropriate dialect of Latin when in ancient Rome). This system has frequently been featured as a main part of the show. The TARDIS, and by extension a number of its major systems, including the translator, are telepathically linked to its pilot, the Doctor. None of these systems appear able to function reliably when the Doctor is incapacitated. In \"The Fires of Pompeii\", when companion Donna Noble attempts to speak the local language directly, her words are humorously rendered into what sounds to a local like Welsh. One flaw of this translation process is that if the language that a word is being translated into does not have a concept for it, e.g, the Romans don't have a word or a general understanding of \"volcano\" as Mt. Vesuvius has not erupted yet.\n\nOn the TV show \"Farscape\", John Crichton is injected with bacteria called translator microbes which function as a sort of universal translator. The microbes colonize the host's brainstem and translate anything spoken to the host, passing along the translated information to the host's brain. This does not enable the injected person to speak other languages; they continue to speak their own language and are only understood by others as long as the listeners possess the microbes. The microbes sometimes fail to properly translate slang, translating it literally. Also, the translator microbes cannot translate the natural language of the alien Pilots or Diagnosans because every word in their language can contain thousands of meanings, far too many for the microbes to translate; thus Pilots must learn to speak in \"simple sentences\", while Diagnosans require interpreters. The implanted can learn to speak new languages if they want or to make communicating with non-injected individuals possible. The crew of Moya learned English from Crichton, thereby being able to communicate with the non-implanted populace when the crew visited Earth. Some species, such as the Kalish, cannot use translator microbes because their body rejects them, so they must learn a new language through their own efforts.\n\nIn the universe of \"The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy\", universal translation is made possible by a small fish called a \"babel fish\". The fish is inserted into the auditory canal where it feeds off the mental frequencies of those speaking to its host. In turn it excretes a translation into the brain of its host.\n\nThe book remarks that, by allowing everyone to understand each other, the babel fish has caused more wars than anything else in the universe.\n\nThe book also explains that the babel fish could not possibly have developed naturally and therefore proves the existence of God as its creator, which in turn proves the non-existence of God. Since God needs faith to exist, and this proof dispels the need for faith, this therefore causes God to vanish \"in a puff of logic\".\n\nThe \"Men in Black\" franchise possess a universal translator, which, as Agent K explains in the first film, \"Men in Black\", they are not allowed to have because \"human thought is so primitive, it's looked upon as an infectious disease in other galaxies.\"\n\nIn William Gibson's novel \"Neuromancer\", along with the other novels in his Sprawl trilogy, \"Count Zero\" and \"Mona Lisa Overdrive\", devices known as \"microsofts\" are small chips plugged into \"wetware\" sockets installed behind the user's ear, giving them certain knowledge and/or skills as long as they are plugged in, such as the ability to speak another language. (The name is a combination of the words \"micro\" and \"soft\", and is not named after the software firm Microsoft.)\n\nIn the \"Star Control\" computer game series, almost all races are implied to have universal translators; however, discrepancies between the ways aliens choose to translate themselves sometimes crop up and complicate communications. The VUX, for instance, are cited as having uniquely advanced skills in linguistics and can translate human language long before humans are capable of doing the same to the VUX. This created a problem during the first contact between Vux and humans, in a starship commanded by Captain Rand. According to \"Star Control: Great Battles of the Ur-Quan Conflict\", Captain Rand is referred to as saying \"That is one ugly sucker\" when the image of a VUX first came onto his viewscreen. However, in \"Star Control II\", Captain Rand is referred to as saying \"That is the ugliest freak-face I've ever seen\" to his first officer, along with joking that the VUX name stands for Very Ugly Xenoform. It is debatable which source is canon. Whichever the remark, it is implied that the VUX's advanced Universal Translator technologies conveyed the exact meaning of Captain Rand's words. The effete VUX used the insult as an excuse for hostility toward humans.\n\nAlso, a new race called the Orz was introduced in \"Star Control II\". They presumably come from another dimension, and at first contact, the ship's computer says that there are many vocal anomalies in their language resulting from their referring to concepts or phenomena for which there are no equivalents in human language. The result is dialogue that is a patchwork of ordinary words and phrases marked with *asterisk pairs* indicating that they are loose translations of unique Orz concepts into human language, a full translation of which would probably require paragraph-long definitions. (For instance, the Orz refer to the human dimension as *heavy space* and their own as *Pretty Space*, to various categories of races as *happy campers* or *silly cows*, and so on.)\n\nIn the other direction, the Supox are a race portrayed as attempting to mimic as many aspects of other races' language and culture as possible when speaking to them, to the point of referring to their own planet as “Earth,” also leading to confusion.\n\nIn \"Star Control III\", the K’tang are portrayed as an intellectually inferior species using advanced technology they do not fully understand to intimidate people, perhaps explaining why their translators’ output is littered with misspellings and nonstandard usages of words, like threatening to “crushify” the player. Along the same lines, the Daktaklakpak dialogue is highly stilted and contains many numbers and mathematical expressions, implying that, as a mechanical race, their thought processes are inherently too different from humans’ to be directly translated into human language.\n\nIn the television shows \"Stargate SG-1\" and \"Stargate Atlantis\", there are no personal translation devices used, and most alien and Human cultures on other planets speak English. The makers of the show have themselves admitted this on the main \"SG-1\" site, stating that this is to save spending ten minutes an episode on characters learning a new language (early episodes of \"SG-1\" revealed the difficulties of attempting to write such processes into the plot). In the season 8 finale of \"SG-1\", “Moebius (Part II),” the characters go back in time to 3000 B.C. and one of them teaches English to the people there.\n\nA notable exception to this rule are the Goa’uld, who occasionally speak their own language amongst themselves or when giving orders to their Jaffa. This is never subtitled, but occasionally a translation is given by a third character (usually Teal’c or Daniel Jackson), ostensibly for the benefit of the human characters nearby who do not speak Goa’uld. The Asgard are also shown having their own language (apparently related to the Norse languages), although it is English played backwards. (See Hermiod).\n\nIn contrast a major plot element of the original \"Stargate\" film was that Daniel Jackson had to learn the language of the people of Abydos in the common way, which turned out to be derived from ancient Egyptian. The language had been extinct on Earth for many millennia, but Jackson eventually realized that it was merely errors in pronunciation that prevented effective communication.\n\nIn \"Star Trek\", the universal translator was used by Ensign Hoshi Sato, the communications officer on the \"Enterprise\" in \"\", to invent the linguacode matrix. It was supposedly first used in the late 22nd century on Earth for the instant translation of well-known Earth languages. Gradually, with the removal of language barriers, Earth's disparate cultures came to terms of universal peace. Translations of previously unknown languages, such as those of aliens, required more difficulties to be overcome. Like most other common forms of \"Star Trek\" technology (warp drive, transporters, etc.), the universal translator was probably developed independently on several worlds as an inevitable requirement of space travel; certainly the Vulcans had no difficulty communicating with humans upon making \"\" (although the Vulcans could have learned Standard English from monitoring Earth radio transmissions). The Vulcan ship that landed during First Contact was a survey vessel. The Vulcans had been surveying the humans for over a hundred years, when first contact actually occurred to T'Pol's great-grandmother, T'mir, in the episode \"\"; however, in \"Star Trek First Contact\" it is implied that they learned English by surveying the planets in the Solar System. Deanna Troi mentions the Vulcans have no interest in Earth as it is \"too primitive\", but the Prime Directive states not to interfere with pre-Warp species. The Vulcans only noticed the warp trail and came to investigate.\n\nImprobably, the universal translator has been successfully used to interpret non-biological lifeform communication (in the \"Original Series\" episode \"\"). In the \"\" (\"TNG\") episode \"The Ensigns of Command\", the translator proved ineffective with the language of the Sheliaks, so the Federation had to depend on the aliens' interpretation of Earth languages. It is speculated that the Sheliak communicate amongst themselves in extremely complex legalese. The \"TNG\" episode \"Darmok\" also illustrates another instance where the universal translator proves ineffective and unintelligible, because the Tamarian language is too deeply rooted in local metaphor.\n\nUnlike virtually every other form of Federation technology, universal translators almost never break down. Although they were clearly in widespread use during Captain Kirk's time (inasmuch as the crew regularly communicated with species who could not conceivably have knowledge of Standard English), it is unclear where they were carried on personnel of that era.\n\nThe episode \"\" was the only time in which the device was actually seen. In the episode \"\" the Metrons supply Captain Kirk and the Gorn commander with a Translator-Communicator, allowing conversation between them to be possible. During Kirk's era, they were also apparently less perfect in their translations into Klingon. In the , the characters are seen relying on print books in order to communicate with a Klingon military ship, since Chekov said that the Klingons would recognize the use of a Translator. Actress Nichelle Nichols reportedly protested this scene, as she felt that Uhura, as communications officer during what was effectively a cold war, would be trained in fluent Klingon to aid in such situations. In that same movie during the trial scene of Kirk and McCoy before a Klingon judiciary, the Captain and the Doctor are holding communication devices while a Klingon (played by Todd Bryant) translates for them. The novelization of that movie provided a different reason for the use of books: sabotage by somebody working on the Starfleet side of the conspiracy uncovered by the crew in the story, but the novelization is not part of the \"Star Trek\" canon.\n\nBy the 24th century, universal translators are built into the communicator pins worn by Starfleet personnel, although there were instances when crew members (such as Riker in the \"\" episode \"\") spoke to newly encountered aliens even when deprived of their communicators. In the \"\" episode \"\" the device apparently works among intra-species languages as well; after the \"Voyager\" crew discovers and revives eight humans abducted in 1937 (including Amelia Earhart and Fred Noonan) and held in stasis since then, a Japanese Army officer expresses surprise that an Ohio farmer is apparently speaking Japanese, while the farmer is equally surprised to hear the soldier speaking English (the audience hears them all speaking English only, however). Certain Starfleet programs, such as the Emergency Medical Hologram, have universal translators encoded into the programming.\n\nThe \"\" says that the universal translator is an \"extremely sophisticated computer program\" which functions by \"analyzing the patterns\" of an unknown foreign language, starting from a speech sample of two or more speakers in conversation. The more extensive the conversational sample, the more accurate and reliable is the \"translation matrix\", enabling instantaneous conversion of verbal utterances or written text between the alien language and American English / Federation Standard.\n\nIn some episodes of \"\", we see a Cardassian universal translator at work. It takes some time to process an alien language, whose speakers are initially not understandable but as they continue speaking, the computer gradually learns their language and renders it into Standard English (also known as Federation Standard).\n\nFerengi customarily wear their universal translators as an implant in their ears. In the \"\" (\"DS9\") episode \"\", in which the show's regular Ferengi accidentally become the three aliens in Roswell, the humans without translators are unable to understand the Ferengi (who likewise can not understand the English spoken by the human observers) until the Ferengi get their own translators working. Similarly, throughout all \"Trek\" series, a universal translator possessed by only one party can audibly broadcast the results within a limited range, enabling communication between two or more parties, all speaking different languages. The devices appear to be standard equipment on starships and space stations, where a communicator pin would therefore presumably not be strictly necessary.\n\nSince the Universal Translator presumably does not physically affect the process by which the user's vocal cords (or alien equivalent) forms audible speech (i.e. the user is nonetheless speaking in his/her/its own language regardless of the listener's language), the listener apparently hears only the speaker's translated words and not the alien language that the speaker is actually, physically articulating; the unfamiliar oratory is therefore not only translated but somehow replaced. The universal translator is often used in cases of contact with pre-warp societies such as in the \"\" episode \"Who Watches the Watchers\", and its detection could conceivably lead to a violation of the Prime Directive. Therefore, logically there must be some mechanism by which the lips of the speaker are perceived to be in sync with the words spoken. No explanation of the mechanics of this function appears to have been provided, the viewer is required to suspend disbelief enough to overcome the apparent limitation.\n\nMicrosoft is developing its own translation technology, for incorporation into many of their software products and services. Most notably this includes real time translation of video calls with Skype Translator. As of October 2015, Microsoft Translator supports over 50 languages and can translate video calls between English, French, German, Chinese (Mandarin), Italian, and Spanish.\n\nIn 2015, Blabber Messenger was developed – a speech translator for 23 languages.\n\nSpeechGear, a Minnesota company, has produced a stand-alone speech translator called Compadre and a web-based translator called Streamer (www.streamer.center).\n\nIn 2010, Google announced that it was developing a translator. Using a voice recognition system and a database, a robotic voice will recite the translation in the desired language.\nGoogle's stated aim is to translate the entire world's information. Roya Soleimani, a spokesperson for Google, said during a 2013 interview demonstrating the translation app on a smartphone, \"You can have access to the world's languages right in your pocket... The goal is to become that ultimate Star Trek computer.\"\nThe United States Army has also developed a two-way translator for use in Iraq. TRANSTAC (Spoken Language Communication and Translation System for Tactical Use), though, only focuses on Arabic-English translation.\nThe United States Army has scrapped the TRANSTAC Program and is developing in conjunction with DARPA, the BOLT (Broad Operational Language Translation) in its place.\n\nIn February 2010, a communications software called VoxOx launched a two-way translator service for instant messaging, SMS, email and social media titled the VoxOx Universal Translator.\nIt enables two people to communicate instantly with each other while both typing in their native languages.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1532920", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1532920", "title": "Visible minority", "text": "Visible minority\n\nA visible minority () is defined by the Government of Canada as \"persons, other than aboriginal peoples, who are non-Caucasian in race or non-white in colour\". The term is used primarily as a demographic category by Statistics Canada, in connection with that country's Employment Equity policies. The qualifier \"visible\" was chosen by the Canadian authorities as a way to single out newer immigrant minorities from both Aboriginal Canadians and other \"older\" minorities distinguishable by language (French vs. English) and religion (Catholics vs. Protestants), which are \"invisible\" traits (cf. the categories \"WASP\" and \"white ethnic\" in a US context).\n\nThe term visible minority is sometimes used as a euphemism for \"non-white\". This is incorrect, in that the government definitions differ: Aboriginal people are not considered to be visible minorities, but are not necessarily white either. Also, some groups that are defined as \"white\" in the United States census, such as Middle Eastern Americans, are defined as \"visible minorities\" in the official Canadian definition. In some cases, members of \"visible minorities\" may be visually indistinguishable from the majority population and/or may form a majority minority population locally (as is the case in some parts of Vancouver, Toronto and Montreal).\n\nSince the reform of Canada's immigration laws in the 1960s, immigration has been primarily of peoples from areas other than Europe, many of whom are visible minorities within Canada. Legally, members of visible minorities are defined by the Canadian Employment Equity Act as \"persons, other than Aboriginal people, who are non-Caucasian in race or non-white in colour\". The United States' equivalent classification—\"people of color\"—is similar, but also includes Indigenous Americans. Historically, it specifically referred to persons of mixed race, particularly of African and European ancestry.\n\nOver seven million Canadians identified as a member of a visible minority group in the 2016 Census, accounting for 22.3% of the total population. This was an increase from the 2011 Census, when visible minorities accounted for 19.1% of the total population; from the 2006 Census, when visible minorities accounted for 16.2% of the total population; from 2001, when visible minorities accounted for 13.4% of the total population; from 1996 when the proportion was 11.2%; and over 1991 (9.4%) and 1981 (4.7%). In 1961, the visible minority population was less than 1%. The increase represents a significant shift in Canada's demographics related to increased immigration since the advent of its multiculturalism policies.\n\nMore than 68.8% of Canadian visible minority population are foreign-born, 27.7% are children of immigrants. Less than 4% are third-generation or beyond. Less than 3,000 Canadians are third-generation and visible minority and over 75 years old, they are mainly Black Nova Scotians.\n\nBased upon the annual immigration intake into Canada since the last census in 2006, accompanied by the steady increase in the visible minority population within Canada due to the higher fertility levels of minority females when compared to Canadian women of European origin, researchers estimate that by 2012, approximately 19.56% of the population in Canada will be individuals of non-European (visible minority) origin. The Aboriginal population within Canada, based upon projections for the same year (i.e. 2012), is estimated to be 4.24%. Hence, at least 23.8% of Canada's population in 2012 were individuals of visible minority and Aboriginal heritage. Projections also indicate that by 2031, the visible minority population in Canada will make up about 33% of the nation's population, given the steady increase in the non-European component of the Canadian population.\n\nOf the provinces, British Columbia had the highest proportion of visible minorities, representing 30.3% of its population, followed by Ontario at 29.3%, Alberta at 23.5% and Manitoba at 17.5%. In the 2006 census, South Asian Canadians superseded ethnic Chinese as Canada's largest visible minority group. In 2006, Statistics Canada estimated that there were 1.3 million South Asian people in Canada, compared with 1.2 million Chinese. In 2016, there were approximately 1.9 million South Asian Canadians, representing 5.6% of the country's population, followed by Chinese Canadians (4.6%) and Black Canadians (3.5%).\n\nNational average: 22.3%<br>Source: Canada 2016 Census\n\n\n\n\n\n\nAccording to the Employment Equity Act of 1995, the definition of visible minority is:\n\nThis definition can be traced back to the 1984 Report of the Abella Commission on Equality in Employment. The Commission described the term visible minority as an \"ambiguous categorization\", but for practical purposes interpreted it to mean \"visibly non-white\". The Canadian government uses an operational definition by which it identifies the following groups as visible minorities: \"Chinese, South Asian, Black, Filipino, Latin American, Southeast Asian, Arab, West Asian, Korean, Japanese, Visible minority, n.i.e. ('n.i.e.' means 'not included elsewhere'), and Multiple visible minority\". However, a few exceptions are applied to some groups. According to the \"Visible Minority Population and Population Group Reference Guide\" of the 2006 Census, the exception is:\n\nThe term \"non-white\" is used in the wording of the Employment Equity Act and in employment equity questionnaires distributed to applicants and employees. This is intended as a shorthand phrase for those who are in the Aboriginal and/or visible minority groups.\n\nThe classification \"visible minorities\" has attracted controversy, both nationally and from abroad. The UN Committee on the Elimination of Racial Discrimination has stated that they have doubts regarding the use of this term since this term may be considered objectionable by certain minorities and recommended an evaluation of this term. In response, the Canadian government made efforts to evaluate how this term is used in Canadian society through commissioning of scholars and open workshops.\n\nAnother criticism stems from the semantic applicability of the classification. In some cases, members of \"visible minorities\" may be neither \"visually\" discernible from the majority population nor form a \"minority\", at least locally. For instance, many Latin Americans living in Canada self-identify as White Latin Americans and are visually indistinguishable from White Canadians. Moreover, some members of \"visible minorities\" may form a majority minority population locally (as is the case in most parts of Vancouver and Toronto). Since 2008, census data and media reports have suggested that the \"visible minorities\" label no longer makes sense in some large Canadian cities, due to immigration trends in recent decades. For example, \"visible minorities\" comprise the \"majority\" of the population in Toronto, Vancouver, Markham, Coquitlam, Richmond, Ajax, Burnaby, Greater Vancouver A, Mississauga, Surrey, Richmond Hill and Brampton. In the United States, such cities or districts are described as majority-minority. But, the term \"visible minority\" is used for the administration of the Employment Equity Act, and refers to its statistical basis in Canada as a whole and not any particular region.\n\nYet another criticism of the label concerns the composition of \"visible minorities\". Critics have noted that the groups comprising \"visible minorities\" have little in common with each other, as they include both disadvantaged groups and groups who are not economically disadvantaged. The concept of visible minority has been cited in demography research as an example of a statistext, meaning a census category that has been contrived for a particular public policy purpose.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20753697", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20753697", "title": "William Blake's illustrations of On the Morning of Christ's Nativity", "text": "William Blake's illustrations of On the Morning of Christ's Nativity\n\nWilliam Blake drew and painted illustrations for John Milton's nativity ode On the Morning of Christ's Nativity between 1803 and 1815. A total of 16 illustrations are extant: two sets of six watercolours each, and an additional four drawings in pencil. \n\nThe dating of the sets is unknown, as is Blake's intended sequence for the illustrations. The two sets of watercolours are known as the \"Butts set\" and the \"Thomas set\", after their respective patrons, or as the \"Huntington set\" and the \"Whitworth set\" after the Huntington Library and the Whitworth Art Gallery, which now hold the sets in their collections.\n\nThere is little record of the provenance of the Thomas set or the Butts set before 1852 and 1872, which has led to disputes about the dating. What is known is that the \"Thomas set\" was commissioned by the Reverend Joseph Thomas, who had also commissioned illustrations to Milton's \"Comus\" and \"Paradise Lost\" from Blake. No contract for the commission is extant, but the commissioning probably took place in 1809, which is the year in which the illustrations were completed. Blake was eager to accept the commission, according to G. E. Bentley, because \"Milton illustrations were a kind of work which Blake could not resist.\" They presumably stayed in the Revd Thomas's family until they were bought at Sotheby's from an anonymous seller in 1872. By 1876 they were in the collection of J.E. Taylor, who gave them to the Whitworth in 1892. \n\nEven less is known about the dates of composition for the \"Butts set\" - between 1811 and 1820, Blake created at least thirty three designs for Thomas Butts, which included the illustrations of \"On the Morning of Christ's Nativity\". Later, they passed from Butts to his son, who sold them at Sotheby's in 1852, passed through several more hands, were sold at Christie's in 1912, and in 1916 were sold to Henry Huntington.\n\nThe illustrations themselves do not make the dating any easier- the edges of the \"Thomas set\" were trimmed before sale at Sotheby's, leaving \"18\" or \"180\" on most of the sheets. Only \"The Night of Peace\" bears the full date of 1809. The Butts set is entirely undated- dates from 1803 to 1817 have been proposed for it. Behrendt argues that the Butts set predates the Thomas set by six years, and Collins Baker and R.R. Wark place it in 1809, but earlier than the Thomas set.\n\nThe sequence of the illustrations is also a topic of scholarly dispute: the mountings of the Thomas set were inscribed on their backs with numbers 1-6, but these were added during or after the 1872 Sotheby's sale, and so are unlikely to follow Blake's intended order. This \"original\" order ran thus: \n\n\nGeoffrey Keynes placed them in 1-6-2-3-4-5 order, so that \"The Night of Peace\" followed \"The Descent of Peace\", because of their similar subjects. Butlin, and nearly all subsequent scholars, have rejected this, as much commentary has centered upon Blake's use of similar images to frame the sequence. Butlin instead rearranges the \"original\" sequence as 1-2-4-5-3-6, moving \"The Flight of Moloch\" to second to last, so that it matches the order of corresponding verses in Milton's poem. Dunbar also follows Butlin's order. Behrendt adopts a 1-2-5-3-4-6 order, seeing a thematic progression from the destruction of classical aesthetics, to the old testament cruelty of Moloch (who resembles Blake's Urizen), to Satan himself. This order is followed by Werner in her \"Blake's Vision of the Poetry of Milton\".\n\nBlake's literary debt to Milton is key to understanding his illustrations of the earlier poet's writings. In general, \"\" is a guide to Blake's idea of Milton: that he possessed true spiritual vision, but fell by his adherence to the moralistic and repressive tenets of puritanism and by his preference for the cruel and distant Jehovah of the Old testament over the redemptive figure of Christ. In that regard the \"Nativity Ode\" is to Blake the rebirth of Milton's poetry into the creative imagination of Christ. Blake also sees a return to prophetic, Christian ideals of poetry, rather than the \"pagan\" classical aesthetic represented in \"The Overthrow of Apollo and the Pagan Gods\" by the figure of Apollo, who is modeled on the Apollo Belvedere. \n\nBlake's prophetic book \"\" was especially influenced by \"On the Morning of Christ's Nativity\". In that poem, the messianic Orc, a symbol of pure creative energy, rises against the repressive institutions of Church and state. Orc is part of a doomed cycle- his rebellion is inevitably countered by the increased institutional repression of Urizen. \"Europe\" in that light is seen as a pessimistic parody of Milton's poem. Orc is often associated with fire, and the closest parallel with him is found in \"The Flight of Moloch\", where a child is about to be given to the god of sacrifice. The similarity of the orifice that frames the child to the shape of the stable in the other illustrations underscores the purpose of Christ's birth, and foreshadows the harrowing of hell. \n\nThe illustrations emphasize the simultaneous occurrence of the events they depict by the presence of the stable in almost every image, and by framing the set with two very similar images that focus on the peaceful victory of Christ over darkness. \"The Descent of Peace\" also has neo-platonic implications- it represents the descent of the soul into the body, which is symbolized by the cramped stable. \n\nThe order followed here is that given by Butlin.\n\n"}
{"id": "14462896", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14462896", "title": "Women in journalism", "text": "Women in journalism\n\nWomen in journalism are individuals who participate in journalism. As journalism became a profession, women were restricted by custom from access to journalism occupations, and faced significant discrimination within the profession. Nevertheless, women operated as editors, reporters, sports analysts and journalists even before the 1890s.\n\nIn 2017, with the #MeToo movement, a number of notable female journalists came forward to report sexual harassment in their workplaces.\n\nAccording to Lauren Wolfe, an investigative journalist and the director of the Women's Media Center's Women Under Siege program, female journalists face particular risks over their male colleagues, and are more likely to experience online harassment or sexual assault on the job.\n\nAccording to a report released on December 20, 2017 by the Committee to Protect Journalists, in 2017, 42 journalists were killed because of their work worldwide, with 81 percent of those journalists male. This was slightly lower than the historical average of 93 percent of men journalists killed annually for their work, with \"The Intercept\" theorizing that the drop was perhaps due to women being assigned more frequently to dangerous locales.\n\nSafety of journalists is the ability for journalists and media professionals to receive, produce and share information without facing physical or moral threats. Women journalists also face increasing dangers such as sexual assault, \"whether in the form of a targeted sexual violation, often in reprisal for their work; mob-related sexual violence aimed against journalists covering public events; or the sexual abuse of journalists in detention or captivity. Many of these crimes are not reported as a result of powerful cultural and professional stigmas.\"\n\nWomen journalists, whether they are working in an insecure context, or in a newsroom, face risks of physical assault, sexual harassment, sexual assault, rape and even murder. They are vulnerable to attacks not only from those attempting to silence their coverage, but also from sources, colleagues and others. A 2014 global survey of nearly a thousand journalists, initiated by the International News Safety Institute (INSI) in partnership with the International Women's Media Foundation (IWMF) and with the support of UNESCO, found that nearly two-thirds of women who took part in the survey had experienced intimidation, threats or abuse in the workplace.\n\nIn the period from 2012 through 2016, UNESCO's Director-General denounced the killing of 38 women journalists, representing 7 per cent of all journalists killed. The percentage of journalists killed who are women is significantly lower than their overall representation in the media workforce. This large gender gap is likely partly the result of the persistent under-representation of women reporting from war-zones or insurgencies or on topics such as politics and crime.\n\nThe September 2017 report of the United Nations Secretary-General outlines a way forward for a gender-sensitive approach to strengthening the safety of women journalists. In 2016, the Council of Europe’s Committee of Ministers adopted recommendation CM/Rec(2016)4 on the protection of journalism and safety of journalists and other media actors, in particular noting the gender-specific threats that many journalists face and calling for urgent, resolute and systematic responses. The same year, the IPDC council requests the UNESCO Director-General's report to include gender information.\nResearch undertaken by Pew Research Center indicated that 73 per cent of adult internet users in the United States had seen someone be harassed in some way online and 40 per cent had personally experienced it, with young women being particularly vulnerable to sexual harassment and stalking.\n\nAn analysis of more than two million tweets performed by the think tank Demos found that women journalists experienced approximately three times as many abusive comments as their male counterparts on Twitter.\n\nThe Guardian surveyed the 70 million comments recorded on its website between 1999 and 2016 (only 22,000 of which were recorded before 2006). Of these comments, approximately 1.4 million (approximately two per cent) were blocked for abusive or disruptive behavior. Of the 10 staff journalists who received the highest levels of abuse and ‘dismissive trolling’, eight were women.\n\nThe INSI and IWMF survey found that more than 25 per cent of ‘verbal, written and/or physical intimidation including threats to family and friends’ took place online.\n\nCountering online abuse is a significant challenge, and few legislative and policy frameworks exist on the international or national level to protect journalists from digital harassment.\n\nThe International Federation of Journalists and the South Asia Media Solidarity Network launched the Byte Back campaign to raise awareness and combat online harassment of women journalists in the Asia-Pacific region.\n\nThe Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) organized an expert meeting titled ‘New Challenges to Freedom of Expression: Countering Online Abuse of Female Journalists’ which produced a publication of the same title that includes the voices of journalists and academics on the realities of online abuse of women journalists and how it can be combated.\n\nSophia Dalton published the newspaper \"The Patriot\" in Toronto in 1840-48, followed in 1851 by Mary Herbert, who became the first woman publisher in Nova Scotia when publishing the \"Mayflower, or Ladies’ Acadian Newspaper\". \nCanadian born Florence MacLeod Harper was notable for her work with photographer Donald Thompson covering both the Eastern front in World War One and the February revolution in St Petersburg 1917 for Leslie's weekly. Her subsequent books, Bloostained Russia and 'Runaway Russia', were some of the first Western accounts of events.\n\nIn Denmark, women became editors early on by inheriting papers form their spouses, the earliest examples being Sophie Morsing, who inherited \"Wochenliche Zeitung\" from her husband in 1658 and managed the paper as editor, and Catherine Hake, who inherited the paper \"Europäische Wochentliche Zeitung\" as widow the following year – as far as it is known, though, these women did not write in their papers.\n\nThe first woman in Denmark who published articles in Danish papers were the writer Charlotte Baden, who occasionally participated in the weekly \"MorgenPost\" from 1786 to 1793. In 1845, Marie Arnesen became the first woman to participate in the public political debate in a Danish newspaper, and from the 1850s, it became common for women to participate in public debate or contribute with an occasional article: among them being Caroline Testman, who wrote travel articles, and Athalia Schwartz, who was a well known public media figure through her participation in the debate in the papers between 1849 and 1871. In the 1870s, the women's movement started and published papers of their own, with women editors and journalists.\n\nIt was not until the 1880s, however, that women begun to be professionally active in the Danish press, and Sofie Horten (1848–1927) likely became the first woman who supported herself as a professional journalist when she was employed at \"Sorø Amtstidende\" in 1888. An important pioneer was Loulou Lassen, employed at the \"Politiken\" in 1910, the first female career journalist and a pioneer female journalist within science, also arguably the first nationally well known woman in the profession. In 1912, eight women were members of the reporter's union \"Københavns Journalistforbund\" (Copenhagen Association of Journalists), five in the club \"Journalistforeningen i København\" (Journalist Association of Copenhagen) and a total of 35 women employed as journalists in Denmark.\n\nKagure Gacheche, The editor of Hustle, a pullout in the Wednesday edition of The Standard, a national newspaper in Kenya.\n\nChristine Koech, The editor of Eve, a pullout in the Saturday edition of The Standard, a national newspaper in Kenya.\n\nJudith Mwobobia, The editor of Sunday, a pullout in the Sunday edition of The Standard, a national newspaper in Kenya.\n\nThe Swedish journalist and editor Catharina Ahlgren was most likely the first female journalist and editor in the then Swedish province of Finland when she published her own essay paper, the Swedish language \"Om att rätt behaga\" in 1782, which was also among the very first papers in Finland.\n\nTraditionally, the first female journalist has been referred to as Fredrika Runeberg, who wrote poems and articles in \"Helsingfors Morgonblad\" under the name of her spouse Johan Ludvig Runeberg in the 1830s. The first woman in Finland to work as a journalist in Finland under her own name was Adelaïde Ehrnrooth, who wrote in \"Helsingfors Dagblad\" and \"Hufvudstadsbladet\" for 35 years from 1869 onward.\n\nAnne-Marguerite Petit du Noyer (1663–1719) has been referred to as one of the most famous early 18th century female journalists in Europe. Her reports of the negotiations leading to the Peace of Utrecht were read all over Europe and admired for the distinction with which she reported on scandal and gossip.\n\nThe first female journalist in Norway was Birgithe Kühle, who published the local paper \"Provincial-Lecture\" in Bergen between 1794 and 1795.\n\nDuring the 19th-century, women participated with articles in the press, especially within the culture sections and a translators, notably Magdalene Thoresen, who has by some been referred to as an early female journalist: from 1856, Marie Colban (1814–1884) lived in Paris, from where she wrote articles for \"Morgenbladet\" and \"Illustreret Nyhedsblad\", for which she can be regarded as the first female foreign correspondent in the Norwegian press.\n\nOther pioneers were Wilhelmine Gulowsen, editor of the culture paper \"Figaro\" in 1882–83, and Elisabeth Schøyen, editor of the family magazine \"Familie-Musæum\" in 1878 and journalist of \"Bergensposten\" and \"Aftenposten\".\n\nThe Norwegian newspaper press in the capital of Oslo had their first two female reporters with Marie Mathisen in \"Dagsposten\" in 1897, and Anna Hvoslef in \"Aftenposten\" in 1898: the former became the first female member of the Oslo Journalistklubb (Oslo Journalist Association) in 1902.\n\nIn 1822, Wanda Malecka (1800–1860) became the first woman newspaper publisher in Poland when she published the \"Bronisława\" (followed in 1826–31 by the \"Wybór romansów\"); she had in 1818-20 previously been the editor of the handwritten publication \"Domownik\", and was also a pioneer woman journalist, publishing articles in \"Wanda\".\n\nIn Sweden, Maria Matras, known as \"N. Wankijfs Enka\", published the paper \"Ordinarie Stockholmiske Posttijdender\" in 1690–1695, but it is unknown if she wrote in the paper as well.\n\nMargareta Momma became the first identified female journalist and chief editor as the editor of the political essaypaper \"Samtal emellan Argi Skugga och en obekant Fruentimbers Skugga\" in 1738. During the 18th-century, many periodicals for, about, and likely also by women were published, but as women normally published under pseudonym, the can seldom be identified: one of the few identified ones being Catharina Ahlgren, who edited the typical women's periodical \"De nymodiga fruntimren\" (Modern Women) in 1773. Women chief editors became fairly common during the 18th-century when the press in Sweden developed, especially since the widow of a male printer or editor normally took over the business of her late spouse: a successful and well known female newspaper editor was Anna Hammar-Rosén, who managed the popular newspaper \"Hwad Nytt?? Hwad Nytt??\" between 1773 and 1795.\n\nIt was not until the 19th-century that the papers of the Swedish press started to introduce a permanent staff of co-workers and journalists, a development which attached the first women as permanent employees to the newspaper offices, which are noted to be Wendela Hebbe at \"Aftonbladet\" in 1841–51 and Marie Sophie Schwartz at \"Svenska Tidningen Dagligt Allehanda\" in 1851–57. In 1858, Louise Flodin came to be regarded as an important pioneer when she founded her own newspaper, became the first woman to be given a newspaper license, and composed a staff entirely of women employees, and Eva Brag became an important pioneer during her career at \"Göteborgs Handels- och Sjöfartstidning\" in 1865–1889.\n\nFrom the 1880s, women became more common in the offices of the press, and when women was admitted to the Swedish Publicists' Association in 1885, 14 women were inducted as members. \nThe pioneer generation of women journalists were generally from the upper class who wished to earn their own income. At this point, the focus of a conventional education for a woman was language, which was not the case with a conventional male education, especially since the male reporters were generally not from the upper classes. Women were employed as translators and given the responsibility for the coverage of culture and foreign news and interviews of foreigners. During this period, women journalists were reportedly respected – partially due to their social background – and due to their language skills given assignments with equal status to their male co-workers. In 1918, Maria Cederschiöld, first woman editor of a foreign news section, recalled that women reporters were not as controversial or discriminated in the 1880s as they would later become, \"...when the results of Strindberg's hatred of women made itself known. Nor was the struggle of life and competition so sharp, as it has later become. The women pioneers were generally treated with sympathy and interest, even by the men, perhaps because they normally did not regard them as dangerous competitors.\"\n\nOf the seven biggest newspapers in Stockholm, six had female co-workers prior to 1900, and when Swedish Union of Journalists was founded in 1901, women were included from the start. An important event occurred in 1910, when the popular novel \"Pennskaftet\" by Elin Wägner made the journalist profession a popular career choice for women, and women career journalists were often referred to as \"pennskaft\". By this time, women reporters, though a minority, had become common and no longer regarded as a novelty and the competition had become harder: in 1913, \"Stockholms Dagblad\" made a record by having seven female co-workers, and the same year, the Swedish Publicists' Association founded the \"De kvinnliga journalisternas stipendiefond\" to finance foreign trips for women reporters. Women covered World War I and the Russian revolution and several women journalists became famed role models such as Ester Blenda Nordström and Elin Brandell.\n\nDuring the Interwar period, a change occurred which exposed women reporters to an informal discrimination long referred to as a \"woman's trap\": the introduction of the customary women's section of the newspapers. During World War I, war time rationing made it necessary to cover household interests, which after the war became a woman's section, as household tasks were regarded as female tasks. The coverage of the women's section customarily became the task of the women reporters, and as they were a minority, the same reporters were often forced to handle the women's section side from their other assignments, which placed them in a great disadvantage to their male colleagues when the competition became harsher during the interwar depression. \nIn parallel, they were women with successful careers, notably Barbro Alving, whose coverage of the Spanish civil war, World War II and the Cold war made her famous, and Dagmar Crohn, who were the editor of the economy section at \"Svenska Dagbladet\" in 1933–1959, which made her unique at the time.\nIn 1939, Elsa Nyblom became vice chairperson of the Publicistklubben.\n\nThe informal discrimination changed when women reporters started to expand the subjects treated at the women's sections. A noted example of this development was Synnöve Bellander, editor of the women's section \"Hus och hem\" at Svenska Dagbladet in 1932–59. Originally expected to write only of fashion and make up, she started to expand the area to the subjects of education and professional life for women, and from there to consumer issues and food quality and other issues concerning the private home life. This development in the women's sections gradually transformed them to sections for \"family\" and private life for both sexes, and blurred the line to the rest of the paper.\n\nThe 1960s signified a great change. A debate about gender discrimination in the press, followed by the general debate about gender roles during the \nsecond-wave feminism, quickly raised the numbers of female reporters in the press from 1965 onward. In 1970, Pernilla Tunberger became the first woman to be awarded \"Stora Journalistpriset\".\n\nThe first female full-time employed journalist in Fleet Street was Eliza Lynn Linton, who was employed by \"The Morning Chronicle\" from 1848: three years later, she became the paper's correspondent in Paris, and upon her return to London in the 1860s, she was given a permanent position.\n\nThe Baroness Frederika Charlotte Riedesel's 18th century \"Letters and Journals Relating to the War of the American Revolution and the Capture of the German Troops at Saratoga\" is regarded as the first account of war by a woman. Her writing analyzes the relevant events, personalities of key actors and consequences of the military struggles she observed. Moreover, she was personally involved in the heart of the Battles of Saratoga. She suffered the hardships of siege when she sheltered in the cellar of the Marshall House during the failed retreat of the British army.\n\nBeginning in the late nineteenth century, women began agitating for the right to work as professional journalists in North America and Europe; by many accounts, the first notable woman in political journalism was Jane Grey Swisshelm. A former correspondent for Horace Greeley's \"New York Tribune\", she persuaded President Millard Fillmore to open the gallery in congress so that she could report on congressional news. Prior to Swisshelm, Horace Greeley had employed another noteworthy woman in journalism, Margaret Fuller, who covered international news. Nellie Bly became known for her investigative reporting at the \"New York World\". She was one of the first female journalists of her era to report by going undercover.\n\nWhile many female reporters in the 1800s and early 1900s were restricted to society reporting and were expected to cover the latest in food or fashion, there were a few women who reported on subjects that were considered the domain of male reporters. One example was Ina Eloise Young (later Ina Young Kelley). In 1907, Miss Young was said to be the only female sports editor (or \"sporting\" editor, as it was then called). She worked in Colorado for the \"Trinidad Chronicle-News\", and her areas of expertise were baseball, football, and horse racing. She covered the 1908 World's Series, the only woman of her time to do so. The 2014 Status of Women in the U.S. Media reported that of more than 150 sports-related print publications and sports-related websites, 90 percent of editors were white males.\nAnother example of a woman in a non-traditional media profession was Jennie Irene Mix: when radio broadcasting became a national obsession in the early 1920s, she was one of the few female radio editors at a magazine: a former classical pianist and a syndicated music critic who wrote about opera and classical music in the early 1920s, Miss Mix became the radio editor at \"Radio Broadcast\" magazine, a position she held from early 1924 until her sudden death in April 1925. In talk radio, there were no women among the top 10 of \"Talkers magazine's\" \"Heavy Hundred\" and only two women were among the 183 sport talk radio hosts list. Women increased their presence in professional journalism, and popular representations of the \"intrepid girl reporter\" became popular in 20th-century films and literature, such as in \"His Girl Friday\".\n\nDorothy Thompson was an American journalist and radio broadcaster, who in 1939 was recognized by \"Time\" magazine as the second most influential woman in America next to Eleanor Roosevelt. She is notable as the first American journalist to be expelled from Nazi Germany in 1934 and as one of the few women news commentators on radio during the 1930s. She is regarded by some as the \"First Lady of American Journalism.\" After the War she stood up for Palestinian rights against much hostility.\n\nThe history of women in journalism in Nepal is relatively new. Nepal only enjoyed an open press after the 1990 democratic movement. It is only since that change that women have been more active in the scene of journalism. The number of registered women journalists under the Federation of Nepalese Journalists is 1,613.\n\nHind Nawfal (1860–1920) was the first woman in the Arab world to publish a journal (Al Fatat) concerning only women's issues. Zaynab Fawwaz was another prolific journalist who also founded a literary salon.\n\nFatma Aliye Topuz wrote for thirteen years between 1895 and 1908 columns in the magazine Hanımlara Mahsus Gazete (\"Ladies' Own Gazette\") and her sister Emine Semiye Onasya worked on the editorial staff.\n\n\"See also \"\n\"References for this section can be found on the article pages if not cited below.\"\n\n\n\nWhile there are significant numbers of women vocalists singing in pop and rock music, many other aspects of pop and rock music are male-dominated, including record producing, instrument playing and music journalism. According to Anwen Crawford, the \"problem for women [popular music critics] is that our role in popular music was codified long ago\", which means that \"[b]ooks by living female rock critics (or jazz, hip-hop, and dance-music critics, for that matter) are scant.\"\n\nSociologist Simon Frith noted that pop and rock music \"are closely associated with gender; that is, with conventions of male and female behaviour.\" According to Holly Kruse, both popular music articles and academic articles about pop music are usually written from \"masculine subject positions.\" As well, there are relatively few women writing in music journalism: \"By 1999, the number of female editors or senior writers at \"Rolling Stone\" hovered around...15%, [while] at \"Spin\" and \"Raygun\", [it was] roughly 20%.\" Criticism associated with gender was discussed in a 2014 \"Jezebel\" article about the struggles of women in music journalism, written by music critic Tracy Moore, previously an editor at the \"Nashville Scene\".\n\nThe American music critic Ann Powers, as a female critic and journalist, has written critiques on the perceptions of sex, racial and social minorities in the music industry. She has also written about feminism. In 2006 she accepted a position as chief pop-music critic at the \"Los Angeles Times\", where she succeeded Robert Hilburn. In 2005, Powers co-wrote the book \"Piece by Piece\" with musician Tori Amos, which discusses the role of women in the modern music industry, and features information about composing, touring, performance, and the realities of the music business.\n\nNotable popular music critics include:\n\nIn 2005, the National Arts Journalism Program (NAJP) at Columbia studied arts journalism in America and found that \"the average classical music critic is a white, 52-year-old male with a graduate degree, but twenty-six percent of all critics writing are female.\" However, William Osborne points out that this 26% figure includes all newspapers, including low-circulation regional papers. Osborne states that the \"...large US papers, which are the ones that influence public opinion, have virtually no women classical music critics.\" The only female critics from major US papers are Anne Midgette (\"New York Times\") and Wynne Delacoma (\"Chicago Sun-Times\"). Midgette was the \"...first woman to cover classical music in the entire history of the paper.\" Susannah Clapp, a critic from \"The Guardian\"–a newspaper that has a female classical music critic–stated in May 2014 that she had only then realized \"...what a rarity\" a female classical music critic is in journalism.\n\nNotable women classical music critics include:\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3167304", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3167304", "title": "Étagère", "text": "Étagère\n\nAn étagère or shelf is a French set of hanging or standing open shelves for the display of collections of objects or ornaments.\n\nThe étagère became a popular form of furniture in the nineteenth century. Similar to the what-not, the shelves of the étagère provided extra space for the display of the accumulation of knickknacks that was typical of Victorian home decor.\n"}
