{"id": "2436319", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2436319", "title": "Abdulaziz bin Abdullah bin Abdulaziz Al Saud", "text": "Abdulaziz bin Abdullah bin Abdulaziz Al Saud\n\nAbdulaziz bin Abdullah bin Abdulaziz Al Saud () is the Saudi deputy minister of foreign affairs, and a member of the country's royal family.\n\nPrince Abdulaziz was born to King Abdullah, in Riyadh. He is the third son of King Abdullah. Abdulaziz Bin Abdullah graduated from the University of Hertfordshire with a Bachelor of Arts degree in political science in 1986.\n\nAbdulaziz bin Abdullah served in the Saudi Arabian National Guard for fifteen years in different positions. In 1991, he was appointed as an advisor to the Crown Prince Abdullah. Specifically, he was Syrian advisor of the Crown Prince Abdullah. He was also a former state minister.\n\nKing Abdullah appointed Prince Abdulaziz as deputy foreign minister on 22 July 2011. During the Syrian civil war, Prince Abdulaziz asked Turkey to establish \"nerve centre\" attempting to topple Bashar Assad. The center was founded in Adana in the mid-2012. Prince Abdulaziz personally deals with Bashar Assad's file.\n\nHe represented Saudi Arabia at the Non-Aligned Movement summit in Tahran from 30 to 31 August 2012, since Foreign Affairs Minister Prince Saud had an operation and could not attend the meeting. Prince Abdulaziz met with Iranian President Mahmud Ahmedinejad during his stay in Tahran.\n\nPrince Abdulaziz is owner of Tower Lane Properties, a land development firm. It is reported that the company spent $12 million on five-and-a-quarter acres of land in the Benedict Canyon in 2009, and applied for permits to build a mansion. The project, later, was reduced to 60,000-square-foot. However, more than 1,000 residents of the area signed a petition against this project, requiring an environmental review. The Prince's lawyers filled a case against this petition. Prince Abdulaziz won his lawsuit against the city of Los Angeles in late August 2012.\n\nAbdulaziz bin Abdullah founded the Centennial Fund in July 2004 and is the chairman of the Fund. The Fund is a nonprofit organization with the goal of supporting the Saudi business. He is also one of the members of the KAUST Board of Trustees. Delano Roosevelt, who is a grandson of Franklin D. Roosevelt, and Prince Abdulaziz jointly established the Friends of Saudi Arabia. This organization seeks to foster the friendly relations between Saudi Arabia and the United States. Prince Abdulaziz is also chairman of the board of trustees of Custodian of the Two Holy Mosques King Abdullah bin Abdulaziz International Award for Translation.\n\nAbdulaziz Bin Abdullah is married and has four children, three from his previous marriage to Abeer bint Turki bin Nasser, and just one from his present wife Nathalie Ghassan Maamary.\n"}
{"id": "38274096", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38274096", "title": "Alfred S. Regnery", "text": "Alfred S. Regnery\n\nAlfred S. Regnery (born November 21, 1942) is an American conservative lawyer, author, and former publisher.\n\nAlfred S. Regnery was born on November 21, 1942, in Chicago. He is the son of Henry Regnery (1912–1996), founder of Regnery Publishing, a conservative publishing house founded in 1947.\n\nRegnery graduated from Beloit College in Beloit, Wisconsin in 1965 and received a J.D. from the University of Wisconsin Law School in Madison, Wisconsin in 1971.\n\nEarly in his career, Regnery served as college director of the Young Americans for Freedom, as a Senate aide, and the Lands Division of the U.S. Department of Justice under President Ronald Reagan.\n\nIn 1976, Regnery ran for district attorney in Madison, Wisconsin. During that campaign, he publicized allegations to the police that his wife had been injured and forced to have sexual acts with men who had broken into their home. During investigation, police allegedly discovered a \"stash of pornography\" in the Regnery home.\n\nRegnery served as Legal Counsel to Republican Senator Paul Laxalt of Nevada and to the United States Senate Committee on the Judiciary.\n\nFrom 1981 to 1986, Regnery served as Deputy Assistant Attorney General of the Land and Natural Resources Division of the United States Department of Justice. In 1983, he was appointed by President Ronald Reagan as administrator of the Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention, and he worked on the Meese Report. On May 21, 1986, Regnery resigned his position as administrator \"abruptly\" to return to the family business.\n\nRegnery was president of Regnery Publishing from 1986 to 2003. In 1993, he sold Regnery Publishing to Eagle Publishing and took a board position at Eagle. (Eagle Publishing was owned by Tom Philips, a Republican donor.) He was also a partner at the Washington, D.C.-based law firm Keller and Heckman LLP until 2003.\n\nFrom 2003 to 2012, Regnery was the publisher of \"The American Spectator\". He was asked to resign by the Board of Directors of the American Spectator Foundation because of editorial differences.\n\nRegnery is managing director of the Paul Revere Project for Salem Eagle, a subsidiary of Salem Communications (which also bought the Regnery imprint) and has served on Salem Eagle's board since 1993.\n\nIn 1995, Regnery co-founded the Law Enforcement Legal Defense Fund; in 2014, he became chairman of its board, which includes Edwin Meese III, J. Kenneth Blackwell, Ron Hosko, and Ken Cuccinelli as directors. Currently, he serves as chairman of the Board of Trustees of the Intercollegiate Studies Institute.\n\nRegnery served as trustee of the Philadelphia Society from 2011 to 2014.\n\nOther associates include the Committee for Western Civilization, American Foreign Policy Council, Americans for Tax Reform, Intercollegiate Studies Institute, International Policy Forum, Institute of World Politics, Fitzgerald Griffin Foundation, Leadership Institute, Westminster Institute, White House Writers Group, Hillsdale College, Morton Blackwell, James Lucier Jr., Robert R. Reilly, Robert Schadler, and Howard Segermark.\n\nIn 1969, Regnery married Christina S. Sparrow, who died in 2007; they had four children.\n\nHis cousin is William H. Regnery II, millionaire political activist and donor, founder of the National Policy Institute (NPI), and employer (through NPI) of Richard B. Spencer.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46910022", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46910022", "title": "Augustin Andriamananoro", "text": "Augustin Andriamananoro\n\nAugustin Andriamananoro (born 14 August 1968 in Soamahamanina, Madagascar) is a consultant in information and communications technology and a politician.\n\nIn 1998, Andriamananoro began to gain experience in software engineering and information technologies while in France. Afterwards, he engaged in numerous projects in the Caribbean and Indian Oceans. He was also the project director of Société M & Associés in Guadeloupe in 2002, as well as the General Manager of the Osmosis Business Solutions O.I. group in Antananarivo until 2008. Andriamananoro continues to serve as the General Director to the Malagasy Authority Office for the Study and Regulation of Telecommunications for Madagascar OMERT.\n\nAndriamananoro was certified by the Galilee Institute of Management in Israël, in his capacity as ICT Senior Manager, he was also certified by \"EMPIM\". He received his MBA in Telecommunication at the University of Houston in November 2014.\nIn November 2009, as Minister of Telecommunications, Post and New Technology, he had the power devolved from the President of Madagascar to enable the trunk routes on fibre optic cable for the whole of East Africa, a project known as Project Lion. This would link East Africa to East Asia and Europe with submarine internet fibre-optic cables. In March 2010, the Telecom Company , at that time, laid another submarine cable in the \"Consortium Eassy, which is a project reliant Madagascar with East Africa\", (\"Consortium Project to relay Madagascar to the African continent and the wider world\").\n\nAndriamananoro ensured third-party access by other telecommunications and infrastructure operators, and established licenses for 3G Internet service, which now cover the entire country of Madagascar. With over of fibre-optic cable, Madagascar became the first country in Africa to be \"all fibre\", and is the best country in Africa for its telecommunications infrastructure.\n\nHe became the Chairman of the Bord to the National Shareholding Company (SONAPAR) from 10 December 2010 to December 2014.\n\nDuring this time he was the official General Manager of the Authority Office on Regulation of Madagascar Telecommunications, OMERT: roughly equivalent to Ofcom in the United Kingdom or the U.S. Federal Communications Commission). He relieved his post in May 2014.\n\nMr Augustin Andriamananoro, a native of Soamahamanina, has been arbitrarily arrested, at a family funeral, by the force elements (EMMOREG) on Saturday 10 December 2016. He was imprisoned at the detention centrale of Antanimora, for opposing the illegal occupation of land (land grabs) for gold mining extraction by the Chinese company Jiuxing Mines SARL, in his home village of Soamahamanina located 68 km west of Antananarivo Madagascar.\n\n\" Vox Populi vox dei \". Basically, it was the message that the priest of ECAR Ste Dorothée Soamahamanina passed to the faithful of this place, which had become \"historical\" as well as to the peers of Augustin Andriamananoro, in this case his family and the members of the MAPAR. For a mass was organized in this church to support the former Minister of Telecommunications, in particular and for the country in general.\n\nIn November 2010, Andriamananoro was promoted to be Head of the Campaign for the Constitutional Referendum for the Fourth Republic of Madagascar). With universal suffrage, he returned more than 75% of the popular vote.\n\nIn July 2013, he became one of the \"Vice President\" of MAPAR, founded by Andry Rajoelina, who had the majority in the Parliament House, of Madagascar since 20 December 2013: in his capacity of being the state's Vice Président.\n"}
{"id": "38697232", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38697232", "title": "Augusto Fantozzi", "text": "Augusto Fantozzi\n\nAugusto Fantozzi (born 24 June 1940) is an Italian lawyer, tax expert, academic, businessman and politician who served as economy and finance minister and then, foreign trade minister.\n\nFantozzi was born in Rome on 24 July 1940. He received a law degree from La Sapienza University in 1962.\n\nFantozzi worked at La Sapienza University as full professor of tax law from 1974 to 1990. He founded a law firm, Fantozzi & Associati, in 1975. He was the tax advisor to the Benetton financial group. In 1990, he was appointed full professor of tax law at LUISS in Rome.\n\nHe served as minister of finance from 17 January 1995 to 18 May 1996 in the cabinet led by then prime minister Lamberto Dini. In I996, he became a deputy for the Olive Tree Alliance. In May 1996, Fantozzi was appointed foreign trade minister to the coalition government led by Romano Prodi. He served in office until October 1998.\n\nAfter leaving office, Fantozzi began to serve as the chairman of the budget, treasury and economic planning committee. In May 2005, he was appointed to Enel's board of directors. In June 2005, he was also named as the chairman of Banca Antonveneta, and resigned from office in late 2006. In addition, he is one of the board directors of the Benetton Group and serves as a member of the Consulta, which is an advisory body for the Vatican concerning the efficient running of the state.\n\nIn August 2008, Fantozzi was named by the Italian government as Alitalia's extraordinary administrator or commissioner, and he oversaw the firm's bankruptcy process.\n"}
{"id": "36780732", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36780732", "title": "Australian Institute of Petroleum", "text": "Australian Institute of Petroleum\n\nThe Australian Institute of Petroleum (AIP) is a representative body for Australia's petroleum industry. Its headquarters a located in Canberra and it was established in 1976. The body is managed by a board composed of chief executives, senior representatives and an Executive Director.\n\nThe organisation aims to support the development of sustainable, internationally competitive petroleum products industry.\n\nThe four core members include BP Australia, Caltex Australia, Mobil Australia and Shell Company of Australia. Its members own and operate all oil refineries in Australia.\n\nThe AIP owns the Australian Marine Oil Spill Centre. It is a member of the Australian Industry Greenhouse Network. The AIP produces a weekly fuel report detailing average prices for transport fuels by location.\n"}
{"id": "14408484", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14408484", "title": "Backus–Smith puzzle", "text": "Backus–Smith puzzle\n\nIn economics, the Backus–Smith puzzle or consumption – real-exchange-rate anomaly is the observation that the correlations between consumption and real exchange rates are zero or negative. This is contrary to economic theory which predicts that with full risk sharing, relative consumption should be perfectly correlated with the real exchange rate. Countries with relative low prices should receive a transfer to take advantage of cheap consumption. This anomaly was first documented by Backus and Smith (1993).\n"}
{"id": "38358956", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38358956", "title": "Bicycle Technologies International", "text": "Bicycle Technologies International\n\nBicycle Technologies International, Ltd. (BTI) is a global distributor of bicycle components and accessories, based in Santa Fe, New Mexico. BTI also participates in the community through cycling advocacy on local and national levels. The company is privately held and does not disclose its sales figures.\n\nAndrew Wright and Preston Martin founded Bicycle Technologies International, Ltd. (BTI) in Ashland, OR in 1993. BTI introduced the bicycle industry’s first service center that bike shops could send shocks to for tuning and repair, known as Shock Treatment. BTI’s first wholesale catalog, also released in 1993, was a twenty-four page newsprint flyer with hand-illustrated schematic drawings of every major fork design. From the beginning, BTI fostered a close relationship with early suspension manufacturers, offering a full line of replacement components. Today BTI provides suspension repair, tuning and other authorized warranty center services for 18 major brands.\n\nBy 1996, the company was looking for a more central location from where they could serve dealers on both coasts. With the help of friends the young company packed up its inventory and relocated to Santa Fe, NM.\n\nOver time, BTI expanded its selection with more shop essentials covering every aspect of the modern bicycle. BTI now stocks over 22,000 unique SKUs from nearly 300 brands.\n\nIn June 2012, BTI publicly unveiled its plans for a new facility. The company announced plans to make a significant investment in a new 47,500 square foot building that will expand the current warehouse operation and will bring two other facilities back under one roof. New Mexico Gov. Susana Martinez spoke at the event, praising BTI for creating quality jobs in the state. Santa Fe City Councilwoman Rebecca Wurzberger said BTI was the type of locally grown, green company that Santa Fe wants to attract not only for job creation, but for community building activities as well. She cited BTI's role in organizing the 2012 IMBA World Summit in Santa Fe as an example.\n\nSituated on a recently purchased plot of land 5 miles from the current warehouse, BTI's new facility will be the anchor tenant for a new master plan employment zone located next to the Santa Fe Community College and near Rancho Viejo. Architectural plans for this site have been completed by Dekker/Parich/ Sabatini Architects. Klinger Constructors LLC has been contracted to undertake construction upon BTI’s acquisition of the property.\n\nBTI’s high rate of growth is attributed to the company's broad wholesale product selection. BTI inventories components from all three of the largest bicycle drivetrain brands, Shimano, SRAM and Campagnolo. BTI also offers a full range of accessories, including computers, lights, pumps, nutrition and apparel.\n\nBTI’s Factory Service Center is a suspension and disc brake repair service that bike shops send repairs to when they do not have the time, proper tools or training to process repairs in-house. The department takes in forks for repair and tuning - replacing seals and performance tuning the shock for the specific rider and terrain. BTI also performs warranty repair services for several of its top brands.\n\nBTI donates funds annually to bicycle interest groups such as Bikes Belong, International Mountain Bicycling Association and National Bicycle Dealers Association. BTI staff regularly attend the annual National Bike Summit in Washington, DC with the New Mexico bicycle delegation. BTI’s in-house advocacy team is also involved in Santa Fe City and County policy making. In 2010 BTI launched Advocacy Roundup a program that encourages wholesale customers to donate spare change from purchase transactions to a fund designed to promote the work of advocacy organizations. BTI was recognized for its advocacy efforts by the League of American Bicyclists, who awarded the company Gold level status in its Bicycle Friendly Business category.\n\n"}
{"id": "22034943", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22034943", "title": "Boys &amp; Girls Harbor", "text": "Boys &amp; Girls Harbor\n\nBoys & Girls Harbor, Inc. (formerly called Boys Harbor) is an American educational organization, headquartered in the Manhattan borough of New York City, New York.\n\nFounded by Anthony Drexel Duke in 1937, as a sleepaway summer camp for boys in East Hampton, New York, the organization has grown into several programs.\n\nThe Harbor was one of the first organizations to launch a charter school in New York state and has since then created programs that include pre-school, extended day tutoring, literacy training, substance-abuse prevention, college preparation, workforce readiness, and a conservatory for the performing arts.\n\nThree-quarters of the students range from the ages of 6 to 17 and are 56 percent African American, 35 percent Latino, and 9 percent from another heritage. The constituents average a general population of 53 percent male and 47 percent female. Most of the students live in East or Central Harlem (67 percent), but 17 percent live in The Bronx, 6 percent live in Brooklyn, 5 percent live in Queens, and the remaining 5 percent live elsewhere in the tri-state area.\n\nDuke, a member of the Duke family and a descendant of the Biddle and Drexel families, attended St. Paul's School, a preparatory school in Concord, New Hampshire, and in 1941, graduated from Princeton University, in Princeton, New Jersey.\n\nDuke started Boys and Girls Harbor in 1937, at the age of 19, as a summer camp for immigrant and disadvantaged boys. Recruiting friends and family as camp counselors, Duke believed that fresh air mixed with discipline and mutual respect would help discover these inner-city boys' talents and potential. After three years (1935–1937) of orchestrating and planning this summer program, Duke and fellow St. Paul's friends found a vacant campsite called Duck Island near Southampton, New York. Duck Island remained the site of \"Boys Harbor\" until Duke was commissioned in the U.S. Navy to fight in World War II in 1941. The camp reopened in 1947 in Connecticut at a place called \"Lord's Highway\"; the camp migrated to several other locations until 1954 when East Hampton, New York, became the camp's permanent home.\n\nIn 1963, Duke acquired a townhouse on East 94th Street in New York City to create a year-round center in the city for the Harbor children. The 1960s through the 1970s were a time of rapid growth for the institution; it upgraded to the former Heckscher Building at 104th Street and Fifth Avenue (Boys and Girls Harbor's present-day home) to accommodate the expanding number of programs, participants, and staff. Also, the institution became fully coeducational and extended its mission to performing arts programs, day care for preschoolers, and drug- and alcohol-prevention classes.\n\nSince the starting days of Boys & Girls Harbor, Duke dedicated his life to the mission he created back in 1937: \"to empower the lives of inner-city young people, helping them overcome adversity as they achieve their creative, intellectual, and economic dreams.\" His goal of properly educating the youth of America and giving children an opportunity to actively participate in society is still successfully being achieved to this day.\n\n\"My feeling is that if we're going to preserve our democracy, we can't have so many people falling through the cracks. We've got to give them their desserts, which is not just respect, it's a good education.\" – Anthony Drexel Duke\n\nOn April 30, 2014, Duke died of cancer at the age of 95.\n\nThe Harbor is located at One East 104th Street, and features pre-kindergarten, The Emily N. Carey Harbor Preschool, Harbor K.I.D.S. (ages 5–11) and Harbor T.E.E.N. (ages 12–18) after-school programs, K.I.D.S., T.E.E.N. and Conservatory Summer Programs, and the Harbor Conservatory for the Performing Arts.\n\n"}
{"id": "866237", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=866237", "title": "Camillo Castiglioni", "text": "Camillo Castiglioni\n\nCamillo Castiglioni (22 October 1879 – 18 December 1957) was an Italian-Austrian financier and banker, and was the wealthiest man in Central Europe during World War I. Nicknamed “Austrian Stinnes”, he was active in aviation's pioneering days and invested in the arts.\n\nCastiglioni was born in Trieste, then part of Austria-Hungary, to the chief rabbi. It is not known when Camillo developed his interest in aviation, but it is known that he was passionate about flying. Camillo's education was primarily law, gaining employment as an attorney and legal officer of a bank in Padua, quickly learning international finance and how to manage capital.\n\nHe was the son of a rubber maker, so naturally Camillo found work with the Austro-American \"Gummiwarenfabrik AG\" (rubber products) in Vienna as an Agent for the Kaufmann automobile tire division in Constantinople. Camillo found great success in this position, demonstrating his abilities to negotiate and structure financial deals. In fact, Camillo was so successful, he was promoted to Director of the export department of the parent company in Vienna.\n\nAround 1901, along with Viktor Silberer and Franz Hinterstoissera Camillo helped to create the Viennese aero club (later Austrian aero club). He eventually was made deputy director, then in 1904 he was appointed to General Director of the company. Through his experience in the rubber and tire production field, Camillo saw the birth of aviation as an industry, going from a ballooning hobby, to makeshift glider craft requiring tires, to fully operational aircraft operated by engines. He met many influential men in his business, and came to realize that aviation sparked not only his passion for flight, but also recognized the tremendous financial opportunity of aviation's potential as an industry.\n\nIn order to draw from the arising enthusiasm for airplanes and ballooning, as well as to take advantage of the lucrative business the hobby generated, Camillo established one of his first companies, \"Luftfahrzeug-Gesellschaft\", in 1907. Being a pure commercial firm – it acquired the Etrich balloon patents and sold balloon fliers in Austria Hungary. There were many contests that these inspired balloon drivers entered, and Camillo was no different- he bought his own balloon and successfully took his balloon driver examination on 24 August 1909.\n\nDuring the First World War, became one of the richest and most influential financiers in Central Europe.\n\nThe first major investor in the series production of aircraft.\n1914 Purchased the German aircraft company Hansa- und Brandenburgische Flugzeugwerke, which employed Ernst Heinkel as its chief designer. Acquired a majority holding in Austro-Daimler with its chief designers Puch and Porsche. Press \"Czar\" and sponsor of the arts (financed Max Reinhardt and helped him to organize the Salzburg Festival). After a series of setbacks, his financial empire broke up in 1926. He retired to Switzerland, then to Milan where he set up a private bank and once again amassed a considerable fortune. After the Second World War, negotiated a large US loan for his friend Josip Broz Tito in Yugoslavia. When Tito refused to pay his commission, Castiglioni succeeded in getting Yugoslavian assets in Italy worth millions sequestered. 1916 Awarded the Franz Joseph Order with ribbon on the Military Service Cross for his services to aviation 1918 with the St-Georges Order for his achievements in the war material production.\n\nCastiglioni became rich in ventures during the period of inflation, acquiring a majority interest in \"Alpine Montan AG\". The Austrian aviation company \"Österreichische Luftfahrtsgesellschaft\" was founded by him.\n\nCastiglioni significantly influenced the development of BMW AG in its early years. The granting of a license agreement by Austro-Daimler to the Rapp-Werke in 1917 was partly attributable to Castiglioni. 1918 At Castiglioni's insistence the Wiener Bankverein (Vienna) acquired the majority of BMW's share capital. 1922 Castiglioni purchased all the equipment relating to engine construction, the associated know-how and the rights to the name \"Bayerische Motoren Werke AG\" from the BMW AG, which was renamed Süddeutsche Bremse AG. Castiglioni in turn renamed the Bayerische Flugzeugwerke to BMW AG and allowed the renamed company to continue production at the BFW plant. From the establishment of BMW AG until November 9, 1922 and then from 1924 to 1929, he was a member of the Supervisory Board and President of BMW AG. 1928 Deputy Chairman of the Supervisory Board.\n\nHis was one of the voices that urged BMW in 1928 to purchase the Eisenach Automobilwerke. Due to financial difficulties in 1929 he was obliged to surrender his holding of BMW shares to a consortium of banks (Deutsche Bank, Disconto, Bankhaus Hagen etc.).\n\nA consortium led by the Deutsche Bank and the Diskonto-Gesellschaft purchased the BMW shares previously held by Camillo Castiglioni, who was facing problems of liquidity.\n\nIn February 1924, Castiglioni partnered with Fritz Mannheimer, and later other influential bankers to speculate on the devaluation of the French franc. They shorted hundreds of millions of franc, eventually causing the franc to drop almost 40% in less than a month. By the beginning of March 1924, one United States dollar was worth 28 francs. Then, however, investment bank Lazard, on the behalf of Banque de France and powered by J.P. Morgan & Co., bought immense amounts of francs, causing the franc to rise again, to 15 franc per dollar. Castiglioni, Mannheimer and their partners lost millions.\n\nIn September 1924, the Austrian Depositenbank, of which Castiglioni had been president, collapsed. A warrant for his arrest on a charge of fraud was issued, but Castiglioni had been taken care to be in Italy when the crash came. The Austrian State said that if he deposited $4,200,000 ($ in present-day value), he could return unmolested.\n\nCastiglioni built up a large art collection and a theatre in Vienna. He was the richest man in Central Europe and much beloved by the Viennese whom he assisted financially on Sundays and odd occasions. He was also a patron of the arts and for some time supported the famed producer Max Reinhardt, for whom he built a theater. So fond was he of appearing in the public limelight that he lived with all the pomp and ceremony of royalty, even traveling in the Kaiser Karl's private parlor car, which he bought.\n\nBecause of his famous banking activities, his life was documented in a 1988 movie on television titled \"Camillo Castiglioni oder die Moral der Haifische\" (in English: \"Camillo Castiglioni, or the morality of sharks\"), directed by Peter Patzak.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47563611", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47563611", "title": "Campus District", "text": "Campus District\n\nThe Campus District is a major downtown Cleveland, Ohio neighborhood that includes the campuses of Cleveland State University, St. Vincent Charity Medical Center, and Cuyahoga Community College. The District spans from East 17th Street to East 30th Street, and from Lake Erie in the north to Orange Avenue in the south. Cleveland State University (CSU) is positioned centrally within the district, located along Euclid Avenue. Cuyahoga Community College (Tri-C) is located in the southern portion of the district, at East 30th and Community College Avenue and St. Vincent Charity Medical Center is located along East 22nd Street, south of Interstate 90.\n\nThe District is also home to Northeast Ohio Medical University at Cleveland State University, The Care Alliance Central Neighborhood Clinic, and the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame and Museum Archives. In addition, the Ohio Technical College campus sits just to the north of the district.\n\nThe Main Avenues of the district are Superior, Payne, Chester, Euclid, Carnegie, East 22nd Street, Community College, and East 30th Street.\n\nList of colleges and universities in Ohio\n\n"}
{"id": "5990854", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5990854", "title": "Coleman A. Young Municipal Center", "text": "Coleman A. Young Municipal Center\n\nThe Coleman A. Young Municipal Center is a government office building and courthouse located at 2 Woodward Avenue in Downtown Detroit, Michigan. Originally called the City-County Building, it was renamed for the former Detroit Mayor Coleman A. Young, shortly after his death in 1997. It serves as the City of Detroit government headquarters.\n\nThe Coleman A. Young Municipal Center houses offices, courtrooms, and meeting rooms. The class-A office building stands near the Renaissance Center, Hart Plaza, One Detroit Center, Courtyard by Marriott - Downtown Detroit, and the Millender Center.\n\nThe modernist International-style building was designed by the architectural firm of Harley, Ellington and Day. Construction began on the skyscraper in 1951 and was completed in 1954. It is 20 floors tall, and including the basement has 21 total floors.\n\nThree sides of the building's exterior are faced with white Vermont marble with black marble spandrel panels beneath the windows of the Courts Tower to emphasize the building's vertical lines. The verticality of the tower section, with its white marble-clad piers and dark spandrels, offers a distinct contrast with the 14-story Administration Tower office section, in which horizontal lines are emphasized. The brick of the Randolph Street facade was not covered with marble to allow for a more economical future expansion.\n\nThe 14-story portion of this complex is called the Administration Tower and is tall, from the ground to the mechanical penthouse roof parapet. The Administration Tower holds offices for the City of Detroit and Wayne County, as well as doctor clinics, laboratories, a municipal library, and the City Council auditorium chambers on the 13th floor.\n\nThe 20-story portion of this complex is called the Courts Tower and is tall. It contains office space on floors 1 through 8, and courtrooms, judges chambers, and jury rooms on floors 9 through 19, with the 20th floor housing the building's mechanical equipment.\n\nA marble wall element rises high stands west of the Courts Tower, and is connected to the tower by a canopy that forms the Woodward Avenue entrance. Bas reliefs of the Detroit and Wayne County seals are carved in the wall, along with a quote from the Bible (2 Corinthians 3:17) \"Now the Lord is that Spirit: and where the Spirit of the Lord is, there is liberty\".\n\n\"The Spirit of Detroit,\" a tall bronze statue by sculptor Marshall Fredericks, is located at the Courts Tower's marble wall element. As one of Detroit's most easily identifiable landmarks, a sketch of the statue appears as the central element of most of the logos of Detroit's city departments and services.\n\nWhen Detroit sports teams (the Red Wings, Pistons and Tigers) have been in contention for their league's championship, the statue has traditionally been outfitted with a huge version of the appropriate team's jersey.\n\nAn enclosed skyway over Randolph Street connects to the Millender Center, Courtyard by Marriott - Downtown Detroit, and the Renaissance Center as a sort of \"enclosed city within a city\". Entrance from the walkway to the third-floor level requires a security pass, and persons without a pass must return to the main floor entrance.\n\nThe Coleman A. Young Municipal Center is operated by the Detroit-Wayne Joint Building Authority, which was created in 1948 by the Michigan Legislature. The building contains a library, a courthouse, and the city hall.\n\nWhen it opened, the City-County Building replaced both the historic Detroit City Hall and Wayne County Building. Many Wayne County offices have since moved to the nearby Guardian Building which now serves as the county's headquarters. The offices of the Wayne County Clerk remain in the building as does one division of the Wayne County (Third Judicial) Circuit Court, Circuit Court Administrative Offices and the Wayne County Probate Court.\n\nOn June 28, 2008, the Coleman A. Young Municipal Center was struck by lightning during a series of intense thunderstorms, and caused a transformer fire within the building. It re-opened for service on July 9, 2008. The smoke and fire damage is easily visible across the river, in Windsor, Ontario, where many windows have been removed, or have shattered.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3828555", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3828555", "title": "Colin Wesley", "text": "Colin Wesley\n\nColin \"Tich\" Wesley (born 5 September 1937 in Durban, Natal) is a former South African cricketer who played in three Tests in 1960.\n\nHe played first-class cricket for Natal from 1957 to 1966 as a middle-order batsman and left-arm spin bowler. He toured England with the South African team in 1960. His highest first-class score was 131, made after Natal followed on against the New Zealanders in 1961-62. His only century in the Currie Cup came in his last first-class season, when he captained Natal B against North Eastern Transvaal and made 120 in the first innings, the only century in the match.\n\nHe briefly returned to provincial cricket to captain the Natal team, which played under the name \"C. Wesley's XI\", in the first season of South Africa's domestic List A competition in 1969-70; they lost the final by two runs.\n\nHe owns Wesley's, a chain of tobacco stores in South Africa.\n\n"}
{"id": "2528278", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2528278", "title": "Computer-aided facility management", "text": "Computer-aided facility management\n\nComputer-aided facility management (CAFM) is the support of facility management by information technology. The supply of information about the facilities is the center of attention. The tools of the CAFM are called CAFM software, CAFM applications or CAFM systems.\n\nThe International Facility Management Association (IFMA) defines facility management as the practice of coordinating the physical workplace with the people and work of the organization. It integrates the principles of business administration, architecture and the behavioral and engineering sciences. As such, facility management has been practiced, whether specifically identified as its own discipline or not, since the inception of the business organization. It has evolved over the years through the development and codification of processes into a clearly defined field of expertise.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7744414", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7744414", "title": "Customer attrition", "text": "Customer attrition\n\nCustomer attrition, also known as customer churn, customer turnover, or customer defection, is the loss of clients or customers.\n\nBanks, telephone service companies, Internet service providers, pay TV companies, insurance firms, and alarm monitoring services, often use customer attrition analysis and customer attrition rates as one of their key business metrics (along with cash flow, EBITDA, etc.) because the cost of retaining an existing customer is far less than acquiring a new one. Companies from these sectors often have customer service branches which attempt to win back defecting clients, because recovered long-term customers can be worth much more to a company than newly recruited clients.\n\nCompanies usually make a distinction between voluntary churn and involuntary churn. Voluntary churn occurs due to a decision by the customer to switch to another company or service provider, involuntary churn occurs due to circumstances such as a customer's relocation to a long-term care facility, death, or the relocation to a distant location. In most applications, involuntary reasons for churn are excluded from the analytical models. Analysts tend to concentrate on voluntary churn, because it typically occurs due to factors of the company-customer relationship which companies control, such as how billing interactions are handled or how after-sales help is provided.\n\nWhen companies are measuring their customer turnover, they typically make the distinction between gross attrition and net attrition. Gross attrition is the loss of existing customers and their associated recurring revenue for contracted goods or services during a particular period. Net attrition is gross attrition plus the addition or recruitment of similar customers at the original location. Financial institutions often track and measure attrition using a weighted calculation called Recurring Monthly Revenue (or RMR). In the 2000s, there are also a number of business intelligence software programs which can mine databases of customer information and analyze the factors that are associated with customer attrition, such as dissatisfaction with service or technical support, billing disputes, or a disagreement over company policies. More sophisticated predictive analytics software use churn prediction models that predict customer churn by assessing their propensity of risk to churn. Since these models generate a small prioritized list of potential defectors, they are effective at focusing customer retention marketing programs on the subset of the customer base who are most vulnerable to churn.\n\nFinancial services such as banking and insurance use applications of predictive analytics for churn modeling, because customer retention is an essential part of most financial services' business models. Other sectors have also discovered the power of predictive analytics, including retailing, telecommunications and pay-TV operators. One of the main objectives of modeling customer churn is to determine the causal factors, so that the company can try to prevent the attrition from happening in the future. Some companies want to prevent their \"good\" customers from deteriorating (e.g., by falling behind in their payments) and becoming less profitable customers, so they introduced the notion of partial customer churn.\n\nCustomer attrition merits special attention by mobile telecom service providers worldwide. This is due to the low barriers to switching to a competing service provider especially with the advent of Mobile Number Portability (MNP) in several countries. This allows customers to switch to another provider while preserving their phone numbers. While mature markets with high teledensity (phone market penetration) have churn rates ranging from 1% to 2% per month, high growth developing markets such as India and China are experiencing churn rates between 3% to 4% per month. By deploying new technologies such churn prediction models coupled with effective retention programs, customer attrition could be better managed to stem the significant revenue loss from defecting customers.\n\nCustomer attrition is a major concern for US and Canadian banks, because they have much higher churn rates than banks in Western Europe. US and Canadian banks with the lowest churn rates have achieved customer turnover rates as low as 12% per year, by using tactics such as free checking accounts, online banking and bill payment, and improved customer service. However, once banks can improve their churn rates by improving customer service, they can reach a point beyond which further customer service will not improve retention; other tactics or approaches need to be explored.\n\nChurn or Customer attrition is often used as an indicator of customer satisfaction. However the churn rate can be kept artificially low by making it difficult for the customers to resiliate their services. This can include ignoring resiliations requests, implementing lengthy and complicated resiliation procedures to follow through by an average consumer and various other barriers to resiliation. Thus, churn can improve while customer satisfaction deteriorates. This practice is short sighted and will backfire. However, it was shown to be common in telephone companies and among internet providers.\n\nScholars have studied customer attrition at European financial services companies, and investigated the predictors of churn and how the use of customer relationship management (CRM) approaches can impact churn rates. Several studies combine several different types of predictors to develop a churn model. This model can take demographic characteristics, environmental changes, and other factors into account.\n\nResearch on customer attrition data modeling may provide businesses with several tools for enhancing customer retention. Using data mining and software, one may apply statistical methods to develop nonlinear attrition causation models. One researcher notes that \"...retaining existing customers is more profitable than acquiring new customers due primarily to savings on acquisition costs, the higher volume of service consumption, and customer referrals.\" The argument is that to build an \"...effective customer retention program,\" managers have to come to an understanding of \"...why customers leave\" and \"...identify the customers with high risk of leaving\" by accurately predicting customer attrition.\n\nIn the business context, \"churn\" refers both to customers' migration and to their loss of value. So, \"churn rate\" refers, on the one hand, to the percentage of customers who end their relation with the organization, or, on the other hand, to the customers who still receive their services, but not as much or not as often as they used to.\nCurrent organizations face therefore a huge challenge: to be able to anticipate to customers’ abandon in order to retain them on time, reducing this way costs and risks and gaining efficiency and competitivity.\nThere are in the market advanced analytics tools and applications, especially designed to analyze in depth the enormous amount of data inside the organizations, and to make predictions based on the information obtained from analyzing and exploring those data. They aim to put at the service of marketing departments and agencies –and of all business users- the necessary weapons to:\n\nThere are organizations that have developed international standards regarding recognition and sharing of global best practice in customer service in order to reduce customer attrition. The International Customer Service Institute has developed The International Customer Service Standard to strategically align organizations so they focus on delivering excellence in customer service, whilst at the same time providing recognition of success through a 3rd Party registration scheme.\n\nNot all customer attrition is bad. For many firms, it is useful and desirable that unprofitable customers should churn away. This is known as customer divestment of unprofitable customers. However, simply because a customer is unprofitable does not mean that the customer should be divested, because there are strategic reasons for retaining unprofitable customers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39148785", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39148785", "title": "Eliot Higgins", "text": "Eliot Higgins\n\nEliot Ward Higgins (born January 1979), who previously used the pseudonym Brown Moses, is a British citizen journalist and blogger, known for inaugurating open-sources and social media for investigations. He helped to investigate the Syrian Civil War, 2014–15 Russian military intervention in Ukraine, the downing of Malaysia Airlines Flight 17 and the Poisoning of Sergei and Yulia Skripal. He first gained mainstream media attention by identifying weapons in uploaded videos from the Syrian conflict. He is the founder of Bellingcat, a website for citizen journalists to investigate current events using open-source information such as videos, maps and pictures.\n\nHiggins was born in Shrewsbury in January 1979. He attended Adams' Grammar School in Shropshire from 1990-95.\n\nHis previous work history includes work in finance and admin. In 2012, when Higgins began blogging the Syrian civil war, he was unemployed and spent his days taking care of his child at home; he is married to a Turkish woman. Higgins took the pseudonym Brown Moses from the Frank Zappa song \"Brown Moses\" on the album \"Thing-Fish\".\n\nHiggins' analyses of Syrian weapons, which began as a hobby out of his home in his spare time, are frequently cited by the press and human rights groups and have led to parliamentary discussion. His Brown Moses Blog began in March 2012 by covering the Syrian conflict. Higgins operates by monitoring over 450 YouTube channels daily looking for images of weapons and tracking when new types appear in the war, where, and with whom. According to \"Guardian\" reporter Matthew Weaver, Higgins has been \"hailed as something of a pioneer\" for his work. Higgins has no background or training in weapons and is entirely self-taught, saying that \"Before the Arab spring I knew no more about weapons than the average Xbox owner. I had no knowledge beyond what I'd learned from Arnold Schwarzenegger and Rambo.\" Higgins does not speak or read Arabic.\n\nHiggins is credited with being among the first to report on the widespread use of improvised barrel bombs by the Syrian government, a phenomenon which has spread to other troubled nations such as Iraq to combat insurgencies and opposition forces.\n\nOther aspects of the Syrian conflict uncovered and documented by Higgins include the use of cluster bombs in 2012, which the Syrian government previously denied using; the proliferation of shoulder-launched heat-seeking missiles known as MANPADS; and the proliferation of Croatian-made weapons which was reportedly connected to the United States, a story later picked up by \"The New York Times\". He has also investigated the Syrian regime's alleged use of chemical weapons, including the Ghouta chemical attack in detail. Higgins has also performed consulting work for groups such as Human Rights Watch.<ref name=\"Bosker\" / Theodore Postol, a professor at MIT, and Richard Lloyd, a former UN weapons inspector, criticised some aspects of Higgins's work.\n\nHiggins used geolocation to publish an estimate of where the James Foley execution video was made outside Raqqa, an Islamic State stronghold in north-central Syria. Higgins used visual markers in stills from the video and his interpretation of satellite images of the terrain around Raqqa.\n\nIn 2018 Higgins was a visiting research associate at the \"Centre for Science and Security Studies\" (CSSS) at the Department of War Studies at King’s College London and visiting research fellow at University of California Berkeley's Human Rights Center. In October of that year, Higgins was the subject of BBC Radio Four's programme \"Profile\".\n\nOn 15 July 2014, Higgins began a new website called Bellingcat for citizen journalists to investigate current events using open-source information such as videos, maps and pictures. Its launch was funded by a Kickstarter campaign. Bellingcat's self-taught open-source analysts include Higgins and eight volunteers.\n\nAmong its major projects, Bellingcat has investigated the downing of Malaysia Airlines Flight 17 in Ukraine. Its work is being considered by the Dutch police investigating the crash, and Higgins has been interviewed twice by the investigators. Bellingcat has suggested that the anti-aircraft missile that hit the plane was fired by a Russian unit, the 53rd Buk brigade, based in the city of Kursk. On 31 May 2015, Bellingcat released a report alleging among other things photo manipulation of satellite images released by the Russian Ministry of Defense. The photos concerned the location of Ukrainian Buk missile launchers around the time MH17 was shot down. Bellingcat's use of error level analysis in its report was criticized by Jens Kriese, a professional image analyst. Nevertheless, Bellingcat's findings about which field the missile was fired from were vindicated in September 2016 by the Dutch-led MH17 Joint Investigation Team.\n\nHiggins is a senior fellow in the Digital Forensic Research Lab (since 2016) and \"Future Europe Initiative\", projects run by the Atlantic Council, a leading US geopolitical strategy think-tank based in Washington, D.C. \n\nIn 2015, Higgins partnered with the Atlantic Council to co-author the report Hiding in Plain Sight: Putin's War in Ukraine which examined direct Russian military involvement in Ukraine. The report was the inspiration for the documentary Selfie Soldiers in which Vice News correspondent Simon Ostrovsky followed digital traces left by a Russian soldier named Bato Dambaev who was sent to fight in Eastern Ukraine. In June 2015 on the invitation of former Belgium Prime Minister Guy Verhofstadt, Higgins together with his report co-author Atlantic Council's Maks Czuperski presented Hiding in Plain Sight at the European Parliament alongside Russian opposition figure Ilya Yashin and former Russian Prime Minister Mikhail Kasyanov. \n\nHiggins was one of five authors of an Atlantic Council report released in 2016, “Distract, Deceive, Destroy,” on Russia’s role in Syria.\n\nHiggins has received significant praise and support from human rights groups, journalists, and non-profit organisations. \"Brown Moses is among the best out there when it comes to weapons monitoring in Syria,\" said Peter Bouckaert, emergencies director at Human Rights Watch. \"The New York Times\" war reporter C.J. Chivers said that fellow journalists owe a debt to Higgins' investigative reporting in Syria. \"Many people, whether they admit or not, have been relying on that blog's daily labour to cull the uncountable videos that circulate from the conflict,\" he said. Amnesty International said that the Brown Moses Blog was vital in proving the Syrian government was using ballistic missiles, information then used to send a research mission to Syria.\n\nEliot Higgins has been a subject of interest for the British and U.S. media and is described described as \"one of the world's foremost citizen journalists\" by News Limited reporter Victoria Craw. He has been profiled in print by \"The Guardian\", \"The Independent\", \"The Huffington Post\", and \"The New Yorker\". Television features have been run by Channel 4 News and CNN International. He has also been covered by non-English sources.\n\n"}
{"id": "34628084", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34628084", "title": "Erik Børresen", "text": "Erik Børresen\n\nErik Børresen (17 September 1785 – 14 January 1860) was a Norwegian ship owner, merchant and philanthropist.\nErik Andreas Børresen as born in the Bragernes neighborhood of Drammen in Buskerud, Norway. He was the son of Lars Børresen (1753-1810) and Karen Flor Robsahm (1764-1825). He followed in his father's footsteps and entered the timber trade. Initially he concentrated the shipping activities on the United Kingdom and the Netherlands. He later established himself as a wholesaler of both lumber and grain. During the 1830s, he built several ships in Hurum and later he established his own shipyard in Bragernes. Børresen owned the first Norwegian ships to sail to China. By the 1840s, he had become the owner-operator of one of the largest shipping companies in Drammen.\n\nBørresen participated in local politics and was elected to the Norwegian Parliament in 1827. Børresen was deputy in 1836, and was elected as a permanent representative to the parliamentary assembly in 1845. Børresen was elected to the first board of the Drammen stock exchange (\"Drammens børs\") in 1839.\n\nIn 1813, he married Anne Hermine Schioldborg (1791-1855), daughter of agent Christian Anker Schioldborg (1768-1819) and Alethe Sophia Hammond (1772-1820). Their marriage was childless. At the time of his death, the bulk of his fortune he bequeathed to the Erik Børresen Foundation (\"Erik Børresens Stiftelse\") which first operated an orphanage and later an educational institution, now Børresen School (\"Børresen skole\") on Hauges gate in Drammen.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32298684", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32298684", "title": "Evaristo Conrado Engelberg", "text": "Evaristo Conrado Engelberg\n\nEvaristo Conrado Engelberg (26 October 1853 – 1932) was a Brazilian mechanical engineer and inventor. He is the inventor of the Engelberg huller, a machine used to strip the husks from rice and coffee during the milling process. He was born to German immigrants in Piracicaba, São Paulo, Brazil.\n\nIn 1885, while constructing a water wheel, Engelberg observed a group of slaves stripping the hulls from rice with pestles by hand, the main method of cleaning rice at the time. Engelberg experimented with the method and found that by rubbing the rice between his fingers while applying pressure, the hulls were easily removed. He returned to his workshop and immediately began working on a machine that he finished the next day, thus creating the first horizontal cylinder rice \"peeler.\" The invention was named the Engelberg Huller and soon was adapted to work with coffee. Once it made it to market, the device revolutionized the processing of coffee and rice throughout the world.\n\nThere was some initial resistance to the machine from ranchers and farmers in Brazil, who preferred to use slave labor throughout the year for these and other processes, rather than investing the money in the machines invented by Engelberg, which would be useful only during harvest. Despite this initial resistance, the peelers was eventually adopted by major growers of the region. With the strong development of his business, in June 1885, Engelberg partnered with Earl Siciliano to found Engelberg & Siciliano which was headquartered in Piracicaba.\n\nDuring 1885, Engelberg received a British patent for a rice-hulling machine.\n\nThree years later, on December 27, 1888, Engelberg applied for a United States patent on the coffee-hulling machine. U.S. patent (number 424,602) for a rice-hulling machine, was granted on April 1, 1890. With this machine, hulling and polishing, which removes different layers below the husk, could be done in several stages \"during the same passage,\" a process that automated a manual task.\n\nIn 1890, the \"Gazeta de Piracicaba\" reported that Engelberg was appointed a member of the Parisian Academy of Inventors, and awarded a gold medal for his invention. Engelberg patented several models of these machines in the United States and Europe. He enjoyed huge success, because the \"stripper\" did not squeeze the coffee beans, and removed all the straw while maintaining the beans' integrity, producing a higher yield for coffee growers. The maintenance of the machines was also quite simple and inexpensive, which was advantageous, because the main methods of cleaning the coffee still depended on slave labor in mills.\n\nDuring 1888, as international demand for his machine increased, Engelberg partnered with José Tibiriçá to create a branch of his company in Syracuse, New York, known as the Engelberg Huller Company, which was organized for the purpose of manufacturing and selling the \"Engelberg huller\". in North America. The huller was quite successful, and additional patents were granted to the firm for various improvements over the years.\n\nProduction in Brazil was halted in 1890 and by 1922, the machines produced in Syracuse began to be shipped and sold in Brazil, as well as other parts of South America, Asia, Africa and Central America.\n\nAt some time during the twentieth century the Engelberg Huller Company began to make grinders plus belt and disk sanders, all intended primarily for metalworking. Some time between 1957 and 1971, the company name was shortened to Engelberg, Inc. and by 1971 the name was amended, to Sundstrand-Engelberg, Inc. of Liverpool, New York. During 1974, the name changed to Sundstrand Syracuse, Inc. of Syracuse, New York, and Sundstrand Corp. of Rockford, Illinois.\n\nBy 1990, Engelberg hullers were still widely used in small mills for milling rice for local markets. As of 2011, the Syracuse-based branch of the Engelberg Huller Company continues to produce hullers. The associated parts and the hullers are still in use in many parts of the world.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16018526", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16018526", "title": "Furukawa Ichibei", "text": "Furukawa Ichibei\n\nFurukawa's school education began and ended before Commodore Perry's ships entered Japanese waters. His parents were lower middle-class and could not afford to give him a higher education. It was about the time of the treaty that opened Japan to commerce with the United States and other civilized nations, that the strong traits manifested by the boy attracted the attention of a business man in his native town. He was adopted by an eccentric man named Furukawa Tarozaemon, who gave his adopted son some schooling in business. The stepfather and son had frequent but respectful differences of opinion, but in time the father realized that Furukawa was usually right and in time gave him free rein – a Japanese instance of \"fortiter in re, suaviter in modo\".\n\nFurukawa made large profits in the raw silk trade, exporting his stock for foreign consumption. He also did well in the rice trade, while suffering severe losses at times - an early example of the vicissitudes of commodities trading.\n\nIn spite of his successes in commerce, Furukawa felt the need to be directly involved with the working man. He yearned to be a captain of industry, desirous of expanding employment opportunities for his compatriots, as unemployment was a serious problem in Japan. He had aspirations similar to a few pioneering industrialists in the West who wished to improve the lot of the working man and to expand the demand for his services. He also had benevolent ideas on raising the standard of living for the working classes, espousing methods of making provision for old age, and suitable foundations to help toward that end.\n\nThe opportunity to fulfill his dream came about as the result of the failure of a Japanese firm, which has considerable consequence in the business of the empire. Furukawa had reflected upon the opportunities in mining. He bought out a failing copper mine and as he found mining to his liking, he bought another after a while. This second mine was old and had been worked for decades. It had always produced fairly, but was thought to be pretty well spent. Furukawa's purchase was laughed at by a few of the initiated and not even his own miners encouraged him in the venture. As operations in the mine improved under his ownership and management, it turned out to be one of the greatest mines of Japan, the now-famous Ashio Copper Mine.\n\nAt greater depths, he found huge deposits of ore and production increased immensely. He used the great wealth he accumulated to establish his ideal industrial city in the mountains of Ashio. He built better homes for the miners, he installed schools for the young, he endowed hospitals, he built roads throughout the district, he provided instructive amusements for the working men, which was an unheard of thing in Japan at the time.\n\nHe lived among the miners so far as the outside demands of his business would permit; when away from them he was nothing more than a plain citizen of Tokyo. All the while he was extending his operations. He bought ten more mines of coal and of copper, in different districts of Japan. All of them prospered, and with their prosperity came a better share of the better things of life for the miners, and a great extension of fields of employment.\n\nSo huge was his wealth and influence that superstitious people began to believe that he might be a demon and that all his beneficence was simply a ploy to gain control over them. This was especially so among neighbouring communities who did not benefit directly from the wealth of the mines, in spite of the fact that the wealth of the whole region and nation benefited from it. When the enormous pollution from the mines began to affect the health of the inhabitants of the region, they felt that their suspicions were confirmed. After riots ensued, the government stepped in and demanded a remedy. In response, Furukawa built a system of tunnels and canals to carry the industrial waste to a remote coast. The cost was great, but the work was completed under his own supervision in a short time. It was a triumph for the government and the people took it as an evidence that even the devil himself was no match for the imperial power of the Emperor.\n\nAlthough Furukawa might be seen as patriarchal in his ideas, and his scheme of government as monarchal, his influence remains, and he is remembered in Japan as the highest example of a far-sighted, public-spirited man, who accomplished great things, and deserved his title of the \"Copper King.\"\n\nIn his seventy-second year, the year prior to his death, he went to Korea to open a gold mine. He also had in mind great plans to open mines in China, cut short by his death. His great wealth and ripe old age, did not cause him to slow down. He refused to listen to the remonstrances of his friends and relatives, and remained busy, and with his usual amazing success, until the end.\n\nHe first introduced machinery in the sericulture of Japan, thereby extending the production of silk. He preceded all others in the use of electric lights and power in his coal mines and he established the first coke ovens in Japan. He eagerly adopted all modern improvements, and was a good customer for American inventors and manufacturers.\n"}
{"id": "54569469", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54569469", "title": "Gina Blay", "text": "Gina Blay\n\nGina Blay (born 29 October 1956) is a Ghanaian journalist and diplomat and a sympathizer of the New Patriotic Party of Ghana. She is currently Ghana's ambassador to Germany.\n\nGina Blay obtained her Bachelor of Arts degree from the University of Ghana.\n\nGina Blay is the Chief Executive Officer of Western Publication Limited a print media house. The main publication of the house is Daily Guide Newspaper.\n\nShe was diagnosed with breast cancer in 2008 and had series of chemotherapy treatment.\n\nIn June 2017, President Nana Akuffo-Addo named Gina Blay as Ghana's ambassador to Germany. She was among eight other distinguished Ghanaians who were named to head various Ghanaian diplomatic missions in the world.\n\nGina Blay is married to the acting National Chairman of the New Patriotic Party, Freddie Blay.\n"}
{"id": "22406877", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22406877", "title": "Health technology assessment", "text": "Health technology assessment\n\nHealth technology assessment is the systematic evaluation of the properties and effects of a health technology, addressing the direct and intended effects of this technology, as well as its indirect and unintended consequences, and aimed mainly at informing decision making regarding health technologies. It has other definitions including \"a method of evidence synthesis that considers evidence regarding clinical effectiveness, safety, cost-effectiveness and, when broadly applied, includes social, ethical, and legal aspects of the use of health technologies. The precise balance of these inputs depends on the purpose of each individual HTA. A major use of HTAs is in informing reimbursement and coverage decisions by insurers and national health systems, in which case HTAs should include benefit-harm assessment and economic evaluation.\" and \"a multidisciplinary process that summarises information about the medical, social, economic and ethical issues related to the use of a health technology in a systematic, transparent, unbiased, robust manner. Its aim is to inform the formulation of safe, effective, health policies that are patient focused and seek to achieve best value. Despite its policy goals, HTA must always be firmly rooted in research and the scientific method\".\n\nHealth technology assessment is intended to provide a bridge between the world of research and the world of decision-making. HTA is an active field internationally and has seen continued growth fostered by the need to support management, clinical, and policy decisions. It has also been advanced by the evolution of evaluative methods in the social and applied sciences, including clinical epidemiology and health economics. Health policy decisions are becoming increasingly important as the opportunity costs from making wrong decisions continue to grow. HTA is now also used in assessment of innovative medical technologies like telemedicine e.g. by use of the Model for assessment of telemedicine (MAST).\n\nHealth technology can be defined broadly as:\nThe growth of HTA internationally can be seen in the expanding membership of the International Network of Agencies for Health Technology Assessment (INAHTA), a non-profit umbrella organization established in 1993. Organizations and individuals involved in HTA research are also affiliated with societies such as the international societies HTAi and the International Society for Pharmacoeconomics and Outcomes Research (ISPOR). An international Masters program in health technology assessment and management, ULYSSES, is also offered.\n\nThe United Kingdom's National Institute for Health Research runs several research programmes which may be viewed as falling into the realm of Health Technology Assessment. Of particular note is the NIHR Health Technology Assessment programme, its longest running, which undertakes both conventional HTA in the form of Evidence Synthesis and modelling, and evidence generation with a large portfolio of pragmatic RCTs and cohort studies.\n\nAlso in the UK, the Multidisciplinary Assessment of Technology Centre for Healthcare carries out HTA in collaboration with the health service, the NHS and various industrial partners. MATCH is organised into four themes addressing key HTA topics including Health Economics, Tools for Industry, User Needs and Procurement and Supply chain.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47529684", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47529684", "title": "Hilton Cleveland Downtown Hotel", "text": "Hilton Cleveland Downtown Hotel\n\nThe Hilton Cleveland Downtown Hotel (HCDH) is a skyscraper on the corner of Ontario Street and Lakeside Avenue along The Mall in downtown Cleveland, Ohio, United States. It opened in 2016, has 600 rooms and stands 32 stories in height. It is one of four Hilton properties in downtown Cleveland, the other three being Hilton Garden Inn, the DoubleTree Hotel Cleveland, and Hampton Inn.\n\nThe building was constructed under a partnership between the city of Cleveland and Cuyahoga County for the purposes of attracting larger conventions to the city of Cleveland. The agreement was entered into under the first chief executive of Cuyahoga County, Ed FitzGerald's administration and the three-term Cleveland mayor Frank G. Jackson.\n\nThe hotel is the tallest and largest in the city. Previously, the largest hotel in the city was the Renaissance Cleveland Hotel which has 500 rooms. This is the first major hotel constructed in the city since the building of the Marriott at Key Center in 1991 at a height of 320 feet with 385 rooms. The new Hilton is managed by Teri Agosta..\n\nFollowing the completion of the new Global Center for Health Innovation and spurred by a tax over run that was raised by the county to construct that facility, the first chief executive of Cuyahoga County, Ed FitzGerald spearheaded the notion that the county needed to mount a hotel project to meet demand for bigger conventions that would overlook Cleveland simply because it no longer had a large enough hotel to accommodate over 500 guests at a time in one location.\n\nThis was due to the fact that back in the 1990s, the Stouffer's company (who owned the hotel at the time) renovated the 1000 room Hotel Cleveland at Public Square (connected to the iconic Terminal Tower) down to just 500 rooms. Not many Clevelanders knew this, but tourist groups and convention planners certainly did. This had become something of a liability to the tourism of Cuyahoga County and Cleveland was no longer be considered a convention town. It was acknowledged that the Hilton Hotel project was instrumental in landing the 2016 Republican National Convention.\n\nThe Hotel cost $272 million.\nThe city of Cleveland passed legislation that led to the financing structure for the hotel in December 2013.\nCuyahoga County followed suit by passing approval for the project in April 2014.\n\nThe lead architect on the project was the Atlanta firm of Cooper Carry. The project is LEED certified and has an extensive use of glass to create three slender modern towers jutting up from a four-story concrete pedestal base. It contains a main and junior ballroom. The hotel is an homage to the visionary civic minded Daniel Burnham Cleveland Group Plan that was instituted in 1903, as per this fact the hotel's new bar is called the Burnham. The skyscraper was erected by the New York City firm Turner Construction.\n\n"}
{"id": "53081451", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53081451", "title": "Infosys Consulting", "text": "Infosys Consulting\n\nInfosys Consulting is a management consulting, IT consulting practice within the larger Infosys organization which works in strategy, IT transformation, change management and business analytics. Infosys Consulting operates globally and currently has offices in 18 countries across the Americas, Asia Pacific and Europe. The firm was officially launched in 2004 as a fully owned subsidiary of Infosys chaired by N. R. Narayana Murthy, one of the co-founders of Infosys. For quarter-end March, 2016 Infosys Consulting and Package Implementation were reported as 33.2% of the whole of Infosys' revenue, contributing to the reported earnings of 23 cents a share on revenue of $2.4 billion that December for Infosys.\n\nAt its initial launch in 2004, Infosys Consulting focused on recruitment in the United States to launch programs in a Global delivery model.\n\nIn 2012, Infosys acquired Lodestone Management Consultants, based out of Zurich, Switzerland for $350m USD. Lodestone increased the Infosys Consulting client base by nearly 200 companies across different industry segments, and at the time of acquisition, Infosys’ consulting and systems-integration business contributed to 31% of total revenue. The acquisition brought on 850 new employees, with 750 being front-line consulting delivery professionals. In 2015, Infosys Ltd decided to integrate Lodestone, at the time a subsidiary of Infosys, and the Management Consulting Services unit into the singular Infosys Consulting unit that resides within Infosys Limited.\n\nIn 2015, Infosys acquired Noah Consulting LLC for $70m USD. Noah Consulting is based out of Houston, TX and primarily serves customers in the oil and gas industry, providing information and technology services. As of September 2017, it was unclear whether the brand would be a subsidiary or merged into the larger Infosys Consulting.\n\nAfter three-years as interim CEO of Infosys, Dr. Vishal Sikka resigned in August 2017. In a personal note to board colleagues, he cited a 'drumbeat of distractions' and \"false, baseless, malicious and increasingly personal attacks\" as his reason for leaving Infosys. Anonymous employees of the company were quoted in the press as saying that this was due to a long-running feud with Infosys' founders over the new direction Sikka was reportedly taking Infosys. The current director and CEO is Salil Parekh, former executive at Capgemini business consultancy.\n\n"}
{"id": "52726947", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52726947", "title": "Insolvency and Bankruptcy Board of India", "text": "Insolvency and Bankruptcy Board of India\n\nThe Insolvency and Bankruptcy Board of India (IBBI) is the regulator for overseeing insolvency \"proceedings\" and entities like Insolvency Professional Agencies (IPA), Insolvency Professionals (IP) and Information Utilities (IU) in India. It was established on 1 October 2016 and given statutory powers through the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, which was passed by Lok Sabha on 5 May 2016.It covers Individuals,Companies,Limited Liability Partnerships and Partnership firms. The new code will speed up the resolution process for stressed assets in the country. It attempts to simplify the process of insolvency and bankruptcy proceedings.It handles the cases using two tribunals like NCLT(National company law tribunal) and Debt recovery tribunal. \n\nMrs. Suman Saxena former Deputy CAG of India appointed as Whole Time Member of IBBI\n\nNavrang Saini appointed as whole time member of IBBI.\nMrs. Mukulita Vijayawargiya appointed as whole time member of IBBI.\n\nIBBI will have 10 members, including representatives from the Ministries of Finance and Law, and the Reserve Bank of India.\n"}
{"id": "39826061", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39826061", "title": "International Workers' Olympiads", "text": "International Workers' Olympiads\n\nInternational Workers' Olympiads were an international sporting event arranged between 1925 and 1937 by Socialist Workers' Sport International (SASI). It was an organisation supported by social democratic parties and International Federation of Trade Unions. Workers' Olympiads were an alternate event for the Olympic Games. The participants were members of various labor sports associations and came mostly from Europe. Nowadays the CSIT World Sports Games are the successor sports events of the International Workers' Olympiads. The \"World Sports Games\" is the main highlight and a new Brand of the CSIT. It is a unique major sports event for thousands of workers and amateurs every two years. The CSIT (International Workers and Amateurs in Sports Confederation) is an international Multi-Sports Organization.\n\nThe Workers' Olympiads were created as a counterweight for the Olympic Games, which were criticized for being confined for the upper social classes and privileged people. The international workers' sports movement did not believe that the true Olympic spirit could be achieved in an Olympic movement dominated by the aristocratic leadership. Pierre de Coubertin, founder of the International Olympic Committee, had always opposed women's participation and supported the cultural superiority of white Europeans over other races. His followers, Henri de Baillet-Latour and Avery Brundage, were openly anti-semitic and both collaborated with the Nazis. On the contrary, the Workers' Olympiads opposed all kinds of chauvinism, sexism, racism and social exclusiveness. The Olympic Games were based in rivalry between the nations, but the Workers' Olympiads stressed internationalism, friendship, solidarity and peace.\n\nThe Lucerne Sport International (later known as Socialist Workers' Sport International) was established in Lucerne, Switzerland in 1920. The first unofficial Workers' Olympiads were held a year later in Prague, Czechoslovakia. The IOC had banned the losing side of the World War I from the 1920 Summer Olympics (Germany even from the 1924 games), but the Workers's Olympiads were open for the \"enemy\" side as well. The number of participating countries was thirteen. The first official Worker's Olympiads were the 1925 winter games in the German town of Schreiberhau, which today is a part of Poland. They were followed by the first Summer Olympiads in Frankfurt am Main. \n\nNational flags were not used, but a red flag of international workers' movement. The best athletes were awarded with diplomas, they did not receive medals like in the Olympic Games. The visiting athletes stayed mostly at private accommodation of local families.\n\nInternational Workers' Olympiads were more than just a games for the top athletes. The festival was based on a mass participation, it did not restrict entry on the grounds of sporting ability. 1931 Workers' Summer Olympiad in Vienna was the largest event with the participation of 100,000 athletes from 26 countries. The Vienna Workers' Olympiad attracted some 250,000 spectators. It was much bigger event than the 1932 Summer Olympics at Los Angeles, both in number of participants as well as spectators. Praterstadion (now Ernst-Happel-Stadion) was constructed between 1929 and 1931 for the 1931 Olympiad. The last Workers' Olympiad at Antwerp in 1937 was a joint event with the Red Sport International organized Spartakiads.\n\nNote: the table below is incomplete. Only the participating countries of 1925 and 1937 Winter Olympiads and 1925 Summer Olympiads are correct.\n"}
{"id": "6465332", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6465332", "title": "JJ Ramberg", "text": "JJ Ramberg\n\nJennifer Jill \"JJ\" Ramberg (born on October 17, 1970) is host of MSNBC's weekend business program \"Your Business\", which airs Sunday mornings at 7:30 ET and repeats on the following Saturday at 5:30 a.m. Ramberg came to MSNBC from CNN.\n\nRamberg was born to a Jewish family the daughter of Constance \"Connie\" (née Rudow) and Max Ramberg. Her mother died in 2001. She comes from a long line of entrepreneurs. Her paternal grandfather\nimmigrated to the United States from Mexico first working as a peddler of pots and pans before opening a furniture store, a storage business, a document storage business, and a real estate firm; her father expanded the businesses. Her maternal grandfather founded numerous companies including a tropical fish company, a tire distribution company, and was the first person to bring frozen pizza to California. In 1988, her mother and brother, Ken, founded JOBTRAK, a job listing and resume database for college students, which they sold to Monster.com in 2000.\n\nRamberg graduated \"cum laude\" from Duke University with a bachelor of arts degree in English, class of 1992, and holds her MBA from Stanford Business School. Ramberg and her brother Ken founded the charitable search engine GoodSearch in November 2005. She gave birth to her first child in early 2007.\n\nRamberg is married to architect Scott Glass; the couple lives in Brooklyn with their three children.\n"}
{"id": "11518258", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11518258", "title": "Jack Mara", "text": "Jack Mara\n\nJohn V. \"Jack\" Mara (March 21, 1908 – June 29, 1965) was a co-owner of the New York Giants, an American football team that plays in the National Football League. Jack was the son of Elizabeth \"Lizette\" (née Barclay) and Tim Mara and brother of Wellington, and served as the team's president for 24 years. He and Wellington inherited the team upon their father's death in 1959.\n\nHe graduated from Fordham University in 1930 with a law degree. However, he never became a practicing lawyer, instead joining the Giants as Vice President. He was promoted to President in 1941.\n\nJack Mara died at the age of 57 on June 29, 1965, of cancer at Memorial Hospital. He is buried at the Gate of Heaven Cemetery, Valhalla, New York. He was inducted into the New York Giants Ring of Honor in 2010.\n"}
{"id": "27193515", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27193515", "title": "Jay Scott Pike", "text": "Jay Scott Pike\n\nJay Scott Pike (September 6, 1924 – September 13, 2015) was an American comic book artist and commercial illustrator known for his 1950s and 1960s work for Marvel Comics and DC Comics, advertising art, and as a good girl artist. He created the DC character Dolphin and co-created the Marvel character Jann of the Jungle.\n\nBorn in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, on September 6, 1924, Jay Scott Pike enrolled at the Art Students League in Manhattan, New York City at what he said was age 15 or 16: \"I know I was partway into high school. I wasn't a junior or senior yet.\" After military service in the United States Marines from 1942 to 1946, he went on to study at the Parsons School of Design on GI Bill for one year, then Syracuse University for a semester, and, after his marriage in 1948, the Ringling School of Art in Sarasota, Florida, for a year-and-a-half. Afterward, he and his wife moved to northern New Jersey. After meeting comic-book artist, Al Hartley, \"I went into drawing comics with Al, but we just didn't get along, so by the time we decided to split I'd gotten to know [editor] Stan Lee\" at Marvel Comics' 1950s precursor, Atlas Comics, \"and Stan said that he would give me work of my own.\"\n\nHis earliest confirmed comic book art is the five-page story \"The Living Dead\", by an unknown writer, in \"Adventures into Terror\" #3 (April 1951), from Atlas Comics, the 1950s forerunner of Marvel Comics. Tentative earlier credits exist, but because it was not standard practice during this period to list complete writer/artist comic-book credits, confirmation is difficult. The interior art to \"Captain Chaos\" in the November 1952 issue of the magazine \"Planet Stories\" is credited to \"J.S. Pike\".\n\nPike quickly became a regular Atlas Comics contributor, drawing in a variety of genres for such titles as the Westerns \"Black Rider\", \"Red Warrior\", \"Texas Kid\", and \"Wild Western\"; such crime comics as \"All True Crime Cases Comics\", \"Amazing Detective Cases\", \"Crime Must Lose\", and \"Justice\"; romance comics, including \"Girl Confessions\", \"Love Romances\", \"Love Tales\", \"My Own Romance\", \"Secret Story Romance\", and \"True Secrets\"; war comics such as \"Battle\", \"Battlefield\", \"Battlefront\", \"Combat Casey\", \"Men's Adventures\", \"Men in Action\", and \"War Action\"; and horror comics including \"Adventures into Weird Worlds\", \"Journey into Mystery\", \"Mystic\", and \"Uncanny Tales\"; and jungle adventure such as \"Jungle Tales\", and \"Lorna, the Jungle Girl\", among other comics. With writer Don Rico, he co-created the character Jann of the Jungle in \"Jungle Tales\" #1 (Sept. 1954), and drew her adventures in numerous issues of that title and her own series.\n\nHe recalled that soon after entering comics, the self-censorship Comics Code Authority impacted on his art. \"I was drawing jungle girl comics: \"Jann of the Jungle\" and \"Lorna the Jungle Queen\" and it seems like another one, too, and I can remember I got a whole book back and had to make the bosoms smaller on the jungle girl, whichever one it was, and when she was flying through the trees on a vine or something her skirt couldn't go above her knees. I can remember having to go over the whole book and having to fix those things.\"\n\nHis final Atlas/Marvel works were the six-page story \"When a Romance Ends\" in \"Love Romances\" #87 (May 1960), and the five-page \"Love or Infatuation?\", written by Stan Lee, years later in issue #105 (May 1963). Many of Pike's 1950s Atlas stories were reprinted by Marvel Comics in the 1970s.\n\nPike began drawing for rival DC Comics in the mid-1960s, beginning with the 12-page story \"In the Name of Love\", starring Wendy Winthrop, Television Model, by an unknown writer, in \"Girls' Romances\" #99 (March 1964). He primarily drew for the publisher's romance comics, including \"Heart Throbs\", \"Our Love Story\", \"Secret Hearts\", and \"Young Love\". For \"Heart Throbs\", Pike and inker Russ Jones illustrated the feature \"3 Girls—Their Lives—Their Loves,\" which ran from 1966–1970.\n\nIn addition to his DC romance work, Pike as both writer and artist created the undersea superheroine Dolphin in \"Showcase\" #79 (Dec. 1968). His stories continued to appear in DC Comics through \"Girls' Love Stories\" #180 (Dec. 1973).\nBy the early 1960s, Pike was drawing covers for such magazines as \"Master Detective\".\n\nHe also is known for his good girl art pinup work, including for the A. Fox calendar company.\n\nAs an advertising artist, he worked on campaigns for clients including Borden, Ford Motor Company, General Mills, Pepsi, Procter & Gamble, and Trans World Airlines. As well, he said in 2010, \"I did do some [painted] nudes that Playboy had in their resorts and those were sold for me for a while. It didn't last too long because it came down from Playboy headquarters in Chicago that they didn't want any more artwork. Only photographs of the Playmates.\"\n\nAfter a long hiatus from comic books, Pike returned in 1993 to draw layouts for two issues and then do full penciling for an issue on the DC Comics series \"Scarlett\" #12–14 (Dec. 1993 – Feb. 1994). He also penciled the 58-page story \"All Good Things\" in DC's one-shot comic \"\" (1994)\n\nPike was living in Sarasota, Florida, and married 67 years to his wife Margi at the time of his death on September 13, 2015. The couple had six children.\n"}
{"id": "24619608", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24619608", "title": "Joseph P. Kennedy Jr. Foundation", "text": "Joseph P. Kennedy Jr. Foundation\n\nThe Joseph P. Kennedy Jr. Foundation (JPKF) is a non-profit foundation founded by Ambassador Joseph P. Kennedy Sr. in 1946 in memory of his son Joseph P. Kennedy Jr.. The foundation was led by his youngest brother, U.S. Senator Edward M. Kennedy, until his death in 2009. The foundation funded the construction of the Joseph P. Kennedy Jr. Memorial Hall at Boston College, now a part of Campion Hall and home to the college's Lynch School of Education. The foundation had assets in 2000 of $30 million.\n\n"}
{"id": "34397734", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34397734", "title": "José J. Benítez Díaz", "text": "José J. Benítez Díaz\n\nJosé Juan Benítez Díaz (c. 1866 – 1947) was a Puerto Rican businessman, entrepreneur and Unionista politician. He served as a member of the Senate of Puerto Rico from 1917 to 1924.\n\nIn 1917, Benítez Díaz was elected to the first Senate of Puerto Rico for the Union of Puerto Rico party, representing the District of Humacao. He served in that position until 1924.\n\nAfter that, Benítez was the owner of Benítez Sugar Company in Vieques.\n"}
{"id": "216908", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=216908", "title": "Karolinska Institute", "text": "Karolinska Institute\n\nThe Karolinska Institute (KI; ; sometimes known as the (Royal) Caroline Institute in English) is a medical university in Solna within the Stockholm urban area of Sweden. It is recognised as Sweden's best university and one of the largest, most prestigious medical universities in the world. The Nobel Assembly at the Karolinska Institute awards the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine. The assembly consists of fifty professors from various medical disciplines at the university. The current rector of Karolinska Institute is Ole Petter Ottersen, who took office in August 2017.\n\nThe Karolinska Institute was founded in 1810 on the island of Kungsholmen on the west side of Stockholm; the main campus was relocated decades later to Solna, just outside Stockholm. A second campus was established more recently in Flemingsberg, Huddinge, south of Stockholm. The Karolinska Institute is consistently ranked among the top medical universities internationally in a number of ranking tables.\n\nThe Karolinska Institute is Sweden's third oldest medical school, after Uppsala University (founded in 1477) and Lund University (founded in 1666). It is one of Sweden's largest centres for training and research, accounting for 30% of the medical training and more than 40% of all academic medical and life science research conducted in Sweden.\n\nThe Karolinska University Hospital, located in Solna and Huddinge, is associated with the university as a research and teaching hospital. Together they form an academic health science centre. While most of the medical programs are taught in Swedish, the bulk of the Ph.D. projects are conducted in English. The institute's name is a reference to the Caroleans.\n\nThe Karolinska Institute was founded by King Karl XIII on 13 December 1810 as an \"academy for the training of skilled army surgeons\" after one in three soldiers wounded in the Finnish War against Russia died in field hospitals. Indeed, a report of the time came to the conclusion that \"the medical skills of the army barber-surgeons are manifestly inadequate, so Sweden needs to train surgeons in order to better prepare the country for future wars.\" Just one year later, in 1811, the Karolinska Institute was granted license to train not only surgeons but medical practitioners in general.\nAs one of KI's first professors, Jöns Jacob Berzelius laid the foundations of the newly inaugurated institute's scientific orientation, which in 1816 is granted the name \"Carolinska Institutet\" (in reference to the Caroleans). This name, however, didn't really make an impact at the time and so was expanded to \"Carolinska Medico Chirurgiska institutet\", which proved more popular, especially when preceded by the epithet \"Kongliga\" (Royal), as introduced in 1822. This original institute was situated in the Royal Bakery on Riddarholmen (a small but central island in Stockholm) and within a just a couple of years had grown to encompass four professorships in anatomy, natural history and pharmacy, theoretical medicine and practical medicine (internal medicine and surgery).\n\nAt around the same time Anders Johan Hagströmer, a professor of anatomy and surgery from the Collegium Medicum (the National Board of Health and Welfare of its day), was appointed the institute's first inspector, a post equivalent to today's president. In the same year, the institute moved to the old Glasbruk quarter on Norr Mälarstrand, beside what is now the City Hall. The move across the waters of Riddarfjärden was accomplished with the help of barges, one of which is said to have capsized, consigning parts of Hagströmer's collection of preparations to the lake bed. Despite this his library survives intact and today forms part of the KI-Swedish Society of Medicine museum at the institute's Hagströmer Library.\nIn 1861 the institute reached a significant milestone in being awarded the right to confer its own degrees; as such it was granted a status equal to that of a university. This, in turn, led to an increase in the size of the student body, necessitating the demolition of the old building on the Glasbruk plot and its replacement with a new, larger one. This new institute building was built in stages, mostly during the 1880s and into the first decade of the 20th century; it stands to this day, and has remained largely unchanged since its opening.\nAlthough it had already gained the right to confer general degrees, KI wasn't licensed to confer medical degrees until 1874. Previously, even though the institute could run courses in medicine, the right to confer medical degrees was almost exclusively that of Uppsala University. Following on from this change in the institute's status the first doctoral thesis was defended at KI by Alfred Levertin, on the subject of \"Om Torpa Källa\". Just shortly thereafter the Medical Students' Union was formed.\n\nThe next decade was one of firsts. By 1880 the Karolinska Institute had started to accept women and so it was in 1884 that Karolina Widerström became the first woman to obtain a bachelor's degree in medicine from the institute; she later went on to obtain a Licentiate degree in medicine and chose to specialise in women's medicine and gynaecology. Anna Stecksén later became the first woman to obtain a doctorate from the university.\n\nJust five years later, following the death of Alfred Nobel in 1895, the Karolinska Institute received the right to select the recipient of the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine. Since then, this assignment has given the Karolinska Institute a broad contact network in the field of medical science. Indeed, over the years, five of the institute's own researchers have been awarded the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine.\n\nBy 1930 the Swedish parliament had decided that a new teaching hospital was needed and resolved to build the new facility at Norrbacka in the Solna area of Stockholm. The hospital was, from the start, planned to have its theoretical and practical functions side by side, essentially signalling the start of the KI's move to the new site. The chief architect appointed to design the building, later to be named the Karolinska Hospital after a proposal by the Karolinska Institute, was Carl Westman. Westman worked tirelessly on this project, allowing for completion of the main hospital building by 1940. The hospital was officially opened in the same year along with the new Department of Public Health, KI's first building co-located with the hospital complex, and by 1945 KI moved the last of its departments from Kungsholmen to the Norrbacka site, known to current students and staff as the institute's Solna Campus.\n\nThe Karolinska Institute was initially slow to adopt social change. Nanna Svartz became the Karolinska Institute and Sweden's first state-employed female professor in 1937; she was the only female academic of this rank until Astrid Fagréus became the institute's second female professor almost thirty years later in 1965. However, by the mid-twentieth century student revolts were taking place regularly in the pursuit of greater social equality. It was in response to the largest of these revolts in 1968 that the name of the institute was shortened to the current form \"Karolinska Institutet\", or \"KI\".\nBy the early 1970s the Huddinge Hospital became increasingly affiliated with the institute and, as more and more of the Karolinska Institute's departments start to move into the hospital buildings, the area developed to become what is KI's Huddinge campus today. It was here that the medical information centre for computer-based citation research (MIC) was set up, making the Karolinska Institute the first MEDLARS (Medical Literature Analysis and Retrieval System) Centre outside the United States. Similarly innovative work continued at the institute throughout the 1970s, with Sweden's first toxicology programme commencing at KI in 1976 and the establishment of a psychotherapy course in 1979. Furthermore, in 1977 the Stockholm Institute of Physiotherapy closed, with the study programme transferring to a new physiotherapy department at KI.\nIn 1982 the Huddinge campus was expanded with the addition of the Novum Research Centre for the study of biotechnology, oral biology, nutrition and toxicology, and structural biochemistry. The number of departments was reduced from 150 to 30 in 1993 and programmes in optometry, biomedicine, and dental technology commenced. The other key feature of the 1990s was the institute's increasingly ambitious plans for commercialisation, as a result of which 'Karolinska Institutet Holding AB' and 'Karolinska Innovations AB' were formed to help the institute intensify its relations with the business community and facilitate scientists' attempts to commercialise their discoveries.\n\nThe year 1997 marked a major point in the history of the Karolinska Institute as it was finally granted official university status with a stated mission to \"contribute to the improvement of human health through research, education and information\". This newly acquired status later led to the incorporation of the Stockholm University of Health Sciences into KI, as a result of which seven new study programmes in occupational therapy, audionomy, midwifery, biomedical laboratory science, nursing, radiology nursing and dental hygiene, were added to KI's teaching portfolio. Around the same time the institute's public health science programme commenced bringing the total number of study programmes to nineteen. Similarly, by this point the institute possessed three student unions: The Medical Students' Union, the Dental Students' Union, and the Physiotherapy Students' Union.\n\nWith the turn of the millennium the Karolinska Institute sought to strengthen its activities in the field of external education and research, forming dedicated companies to help it do so and later establishing a fundraising campaign with a target of raising an extra 1 billion kronor for research between 2007 and 2010. During the same period new programmes were established in medical informatics, podiatry, and psychology as well as master's programmes of one and two years duration, and in 2004, the Karolinska Institute appointed its first female president – Harriet Wallberg-Henriksson, professor of integrative physiology.\n\nThe year 2010 marked yet another significant event in the history of the KI as the institute celebrated its 200th anniversary under the patronage of King Carl XVI Gustaf. Shortly thereafter, in 2013, Anders Hamsten assumed his new position as vice-chancellor of the Karolinska Institute, a position he held until when he resigned as in the wake of the Macchiarini affair.\n\n\nThe rod of Asclepius is named after the god of medicine, Aesculapius or Asclepius. This ancient god was the son of Apollo and was generally accompanied by a snake. Over time, the snake became coiled around the staff borne by the god.\n\nThe snake bowl was originally depicted together with Asclepius' daughter, the virgin goddess of health Hygieia or Hygiea. The snake ate from her bowl, which was considered to bring good fortune. There is nothing to support the notion that the snake would secrete its venom into the bowl.\n\nThe cockerel symbolises new life and was sacrificed to Asclepius by those who had recovered from illness. This is the meaning behind the Greek philosopher Socrates' last words after he drank the poisoned cup: \"Crito, we owe a cock to Asclepius. Do pay it. Don't forget.\"\n\nThe Karolinska Institute offers the widest range of medical education under one roof in Sweden. Several of the programmes include clinical training or other training within the healthcare system. The close proximity of the Karolinska University Hospital and other teaching hospitals in the Stockholm area thus plays an important role during the education.\nApproximately 6,000 full-time students are taking educational and single subject courses at Bachelor and Master levels at the Karolinska Institute. Annually, 20 upper high school students from all over Sweden get selected to attend Karolinska's 7-week long biomedical summer research school, informally named \"SoFo\".\n\nAs of 2018, Times Higher Education ranks the Karolinska Institute at number 38 overall in the world. In the field of Clinical Medicine and Pharmacy, it is ranked twelfth worldwide and third in Europe for 2016. According to the 2018 Times Higher Education World University Rankings, the Karolinska Institute is ranked 15th worldwide and fifth in Europe in the subject Clinical, pre-clinical and health. The Karolinska Institute is not listed in the overall QS World University Rankings since it only ranks multi-faculty universities. However, QS does rank the Karolinska Institute in the category of Life Sciences and Medicine, placing it as the best in Sweden, 3rd in Europe and 6th worldwide in 2017. In 2015, the QS ranked the Department of Dental Medicine 1st in the world.\n\nThe university was a founding member of the League of European Research Universities. \n\nIn February 2015, the KI announced it had received a record $50 million donation from Lau Ming-wai, who chairs Hong Kong property developer Chinese Estates Holdings, and would establish a research centre in the city. Within a few days, \"Next Magazine\" revealed that Chuen-yan – son of Hong Kong Chief Executive CY Leung – had recently been awarded a fellowship to research heart disease therapeutics at the institute in Stockholm beginning that year, and raised questions about the \"intricate relationship between the chief executive and powerful individuals\". CY Leung had visited KI when in Sweden in 2014, and subsequently introduced KI president, Anders Hamsten, to Lau. The Democratic Party urged the ICAC to investigate the donation, suggesting that Leung may have abused his public position to further his son's career. The Chief Executive's Office strenuously denied suggestions of any quid pro quo, saying that \"the admission of the [Chief Executive's] son to post-doctoral research at KI is an independent decision by KI having regard to his professional standards. He [the son] plays no role and does not hold any position at the [proposed] Ming Wai Lau Center for Regenerative Medicine.\" This accusation has also been questioned by the \"South China Morning Post\"'s Canadian-based pro-Beijing and pro-government opinion columnist, Alex Lo: \"The insinuation is that Leung Chuen-yan with a doctorate from Cambridge doesn't deserve his job at the Karolinska Institute...Leung the son probably could get similar junior posts in many other prestigious-sounding – at least to brand-obsessed Hongkongers – research institutes; it's not that big a deal.\"\n\nThe Nobel Assembly at the Karolinska Institute is a body at the Karolinska Institute which awards the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine. The Nobel Assembly consists of fifty professors in medical subjects at the Karolinska Institute, appointed by the faculty of the Institute, and is a private organisation which is formally not part of the Karolinska Institute. The main work involved in collecting nominations and screening nominees is performed by the Nobel Committee at the Karolinska Institute, which has five members. The Nobel Committee, which is appointed by the Nobel Assembly, is only empowered to recommend laureates, while the final decision rests with the Nobel Assembly.\n\nIn the early history of the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine, which was first awarded in 1901, the laurates were decided upon by the entire faculty of the Karolinska Institute. The reason for creating a special body for the decisions concerning the Nobel Prize was the fact that the Karolinska Institute is a state-run university, which in turn means that it is subject to various laws that apply to government agencies in Sweden and similar Swedish public sector organisations, such as freedom of information legislation. By moving the actual decision making to a private body at Karolinska Institute (but not part of it), it is possible to follow the regulations for the Nobel Prize set down by the Nobel Foundation, including keeping the confidentiality of all documents and proceedings for a minimum of 50 years. Also, the legal possibility of contesting the decisions in e.g. administrative courts is removed.\n\nThe other two Nobel Prize-awarding bodies in Sweden, the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences and the Swedish Academy, are legally private organisations (although enjoying royal patronage), and have therefore not had to make any special arrangements to be able to follow the Nobel Foundation's regulations.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1324586", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1324586", "title": "Kjeld Kirk Kristiansen", "text": "Kjeld Kirk Kristiansen\n\nKjeld Kirk Kristiansen (; born 27 December 1947) is the former president and CEO of The Lego Group (1979–2004). According to \"Forbes\", Kristiansen is the 3rd richest Dane with a net worth of $5.4 billion, as of September 2018.\n\nKristiansen was born 27 December 1947 in Billund, Denmark. His father, Godtfred Kirk Christiansen worked with his grandfather, Ole Kirk Christiansen, in the family business: Lego. As a child, he often inspired and tested new model concepts and their building instructions. He also appeared on many of the company's packages and marketing materials. In 1979, he became president and CEO of The Lego Group. Kjeld introduced themes, minifigures, LEGO.com, Lego Mindstorms and licensed properties. In 2004, he stepped down as president and CEO to focus on his role as owner of the Lego Group and vice-chairman of the board, while maintaining his role as chairman of the board of KIRKBI A/S, Lego Holding A/S and the Lego Foundation. Lego is privately held and is controlled by the Kristiansen family and their foundations. \n\nKjeld and his wife, Camilla, live in Denmark and have three children and two grandchildren. His youngest daughter is the danish dressage rider Agnete Kirk Thinggaard.\n\nHe has received many awards in his professional career.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28622463", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28622463", "title": "Koch family", "text": "Koch family\n\nThe Koch family ( ) is an American family engaged in business, most noted for their political activities (donating to libertarian-Criminal Justice Reform-and Republican Party causes), and control of Koch Industries, the second-largest privately owned company in the United States (with 2017 revenues of $100 billion). The family business was started by Fred C. Koch, who developed a new cracking method for the refinement of heavy crude oil into gasoline. Fred's four sons litigated against each other over their interests in the business during the 1980s and 1990s.\n\nCharles G. Koch and David H. Koch, today commonly referred to as the Koch brothers and the only two of Fred Koch's four sons still with Koch Industries are affiliated with the Koch family foundations. \nCharles and David Koch have built a political network of conservative donors and the brothers funnel financial revenue into television and multi-media advertising.\n\n\nThe Koch family foundations are a related group of non-profit organizations that began with the establishment of the Fred and Mary Koch Foundation in 1953, and now includes the Charles Koch Foundation, the David H. Koch Charitable Foundation and the Koch Cultural Trust. The organizations collectively have a stated goal of \"advancing liberty and freedom\" through the support of various causes which \"further social progress and sustainable prosperity.\" In addition to the direct action of the non-profits, the groups have also contributed financially to other philanthropic organizations in the fields of research, public well-being, arts, and education, including contributions to scholarship programs, university support, and loan assistance through organizations like the United Negro College Fund.\n\nCharles and David Koch have been active in American politics since at least 1980, when David Koch was the Libertarian Party's vice-presidential nominee. Their political contributions began to attract widespread attention from media outlets in 2008, when, through their family foundations, the brothers contributed to 34 political and policy organizations, three of which they founded, and several of which they directed. They have since organized a network of libertarian and conservative donors, candidates, think tanks, and other groups. As an example of their influence, Jane Mayer noted House Speaker John Boehner's appeal to David Koch in 2011 when Boehner needed votes to prevent a government shutdown.\n\nThe Koch brothers indicated that they intended to raise almost $880 million in support of candidates in the 2016 elections, and have given more than $100 million to conservative and libertarian policy and advocacy groups in the United States, including the Heritage Foundation and the Cato Institute, and more recently Americans for Prosperity.\n\n\"Americans for Prosperity\", founded by David Koch, has been reported by Kenneth Vogel of \"Politico\" to be one of the main nonprofit groups assisting the Tea Party movement; but in 2010, Koch spokeswoman Melissa Cohlmia distanced the Kochs from the tea parties and FreedomWorks saying that \"no funding has been provided by Koch companies, the Koch foundations, Charles Koch or David Koch specifically to support the tea parties.\" According to the Koch Family Foundations and Philanthropy website, \"the foundations and the individual giving of Koch family members\" have financially supported organizations \"fostering entrepreneurship, education, human services, at-risk youth, arts and culture, and medical research.\"\n\nFormer Republican congressman Joe Scarborough, co-host of MSNBC's \"Morning Joe\", has pointed out that, although their critics are usually unaware of the fact, the Koch brothers have supported more than just what are generally considered conservative causes. They opposed George W. Bush on many issues, are pro-choice, support same sex marriage, and worked closely with the Obama White House for the Obama administration's criminal justice reform initiatives that aligned with their own.\n\nIn early 2018, political advocacy groups linked to the Koch family pledged to spend $400 million on the 2018 midterm elections, including $20 million to promote the H.R.1 – An Act to provide for reconciliation pursuant to titles II and V of the concurrent resolution on the budget for fiscal year 2018 to skeptical voters.\n\nThe Koch family funding apparatus has been funding libertarian groups through think tanks for over forty years. The Cato Institute, which Charles Koch helped create in 1974, is consistently ranked as among the top 25 U.S. think tanks overall in terms of influence on public policy in the United States. In 2015, the Kochs worked with the American Civil Liberties Union on criminal justice reform, specifically in the realm of civil asset forfeiture. The Kochs have also worked to push legislation aiming to adjust federal sentencing guidelines and reduce prison populations. \n\nAccording to investigative reporter Jane Mayer and the environmental NGO Greenpeace, the Koch brothers have played an active role in opposing climate change legislation. Anthropogenic climate change denier Willie Soon received $230,000 from the Charles G. Koch Charitable Foundation. Organizations that the Koch brothers help fund, such as Americans for Prosperity, The Heritage Foundation, the Cato Institute, and the Manhattan Institute, have been active in questioning global warming. Americans for Prosperity and the Koch brothers influenced more than 400 members of Congress to sign a pledge to vote against climate change legislation that does not include offsetting tax cuts.\n\n"}
{"id": "50765115", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50765115", "title": "Microsoft Planner", "text": "Microsoft Planner\n\nMicrosoft Planner is a planning application available on the Microsoft Office 365 platform. The application is available to premium, business, and educational subscribers to Office 365.\n\nOn June 6, 2016 Microsoft made the application available for general release and intends to roll it out over coming weeks to eligible subscription plans.\n\nPlanner enables users and teams to create plans, assemble and assign tasks, share files, communicate and collaborate with other users, and receive progress updates via various means on the Office 365 platform. Each new plan created in Planner automatically creates a new Office 365 group.\n\n"}
{"id": "11169023", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11169023", "title": "Ministry of Defence Industry of Azerbaijan", "text": "Ministry of Defence Industry of Azerbaijan\n\nThe Ministry of Defence Industry of Azerbaijan () is a governmental agency within the Cabinet of Azerbaijan in charge of design, manufacturing, regulation and maintenance of products in the fields of defense, radio electronics, instrument engineering.\n\nThe Ministry was established on December 16, 2005 by presidential decree. The new Ministry, incorporated the State Departments for Military Industry and for Armaments and the Military Science Center, each of which was formerly a separate agency within the Azerbaijani Defense Ministry.Yavar Jamalov was in charge of heading this ministry between March 2006 – 23 June 2018. \n\nAzerbaijan has a desire to become a major arms exporter to the South Caucasus, Central Asia and Middle East. It was announced in January 2008 that the defence industry of Azerbaijan would begin to manufacture armoured personnel carriers and infantry fighting vehicles, as well as small calibre artillery guns. Whether this has actually taken place is unclear. The new ministry is cooperating with the defence sectors of Ukraine, Belarus and Pakistan. In 2008 several more military factories were created in Azerbaijan.\n\nAccording to Sumarinly, the MDI has been in talks with various Israeli defense firms and two Turkish companies about the production of an armored vehicle based on the Russian T-55 tank’s chassis. MDI will also provide 30 South-African-designed Matador and Marauder armored vehicles to the army.\n\nMatador and Marauder mine-protected vehicles at the military parade in Baku, Azerbaijan\n\nIn March 2011 the MDI presented its prototype of an Austrian-designed four-seater known as the Diamond DA-42 military passenger plane. The plane is assembled by AZAD Systems, an Azerbaijani state-owned firm.\n\nOverall, Azerbaijani military production more than doubled between 2009 and 2010, and the product line expanded by 17 percent, according to MDI.\n\nEnterprises of the Ministry include:\n\nThe Ministry’s enterprises co-operate with partners in many foreign countries in following areas:\n\nRecently, the Turkish firms of ASELSAN and MKEK has signed a deal with Azerbaijan. ASELSAN has been awarded to co-produce monocular night vision sights and thermal scopes (sniper rifles etc.) with Azerbaijan.\n\nMakina Kimya Endüstrisi Kurumu (MKE) has been awarded a contract worth $1.150.000 to produce weapons, ammunition, chemicals and other materials. Besides the contract, MKEK will also take part in the assistance of modernization of the Azeri defense industries.\n\nAzerbaijani-made prototypes of Orbiter 2M Unmanned aerial vehicle are expected to undergo testing for up to two years. Full-scale production won’t begin before 2013, under the existing timetable. Production of drones has started at Azad Systems, a joint venture between Azerbaijan’s Defence Industry Ministry and Israeli manufacturer Aeronautics.\n\n\nOn September 27, 2016, the 2nd Azerbaijan International Defence Exhibition “ADEX-2016” was hold at Baku Expo Centre. The “Memorandum of Understanding” was signed between the Minister of Defence Industry Yavar Jamalov and the Minister of Defence Zakir Hasanov during the event. According to the agreement between the parties, the Armed Forces will be supplied with new unmanned aerial vehicles which were produced at the Ministry’s enterprises. The aerial vehicle included reconnaissance and observation drones and new model of “Zarba\".\n\nThe ministry of Defence Industry also cooperates with the following countries in the field of production and modernization of military equipment. \n\n\nThe country also manufactures Israeli-designed spy planes. Among the licensed pilotless spy plane is the Orbiter-2M and the Aerostar. Both are manufactured at the government-owned Azad Systems Company plant near Baku. The head of the Defense Industry, Yaver Jamalov, said that by the end of 2011 a total of 60 UAVs would be produced.\n\nIn May 2011, President of the State Oil Company of Azerbaijan Republic Rovnag Abdullayev stated that Azerbaijan will start the production of national warships after 2013.\n\nIn 2008, Azerbaijan revealed the Istiglal IST-14.5. An anti-material rifle, which can be taken down into 2 separate components for easy transportation. The rifle is said to be operable in adverse weather such as rain and dirt with temperature ranges from 50 to -50 degrees Celsius. The rifle is operated in several countries. \nIn 2011, Azerbaijan has begun producing AK-74M assault rifles under a license from the Russian armaments manufacturer Izhmash. The assault rifles are being produced for the Azerbaijani Armed Forces under the name \"Khazri\".\nIn addition to production of Istiglal IST-14.5 and AK-74M, Azerbaijan has also been producing the following weapon systems:\n\nMurad Bayar, the undersecretary for Turkish Defense Industries, said that Turkey aimed to manufacture new tanks for the Turkish Armed Forces. \"Some of these tanks could be manufactured in Azerbaijan, and some can be produced in Turkey, joint production with Azerbaijan in line with this country`s needs in the future.\" Bayar told.\n\nAzerbaijani-made prototypes of Orbiter 2M Unmanned aerial vehicle are expected to undergo testing for up to two years. Full-scale production won’t begin before 2013, under the existing timetable. Production of drones has started at Azad Systems, a joint venture between Azerbaijan’s Defence Industry Ministry and Israeli manufacturer Aeronautics.\n\nAccording to the Azerbaijani APA agency in November 2010, \"Azerbaijan is in the negotiations with some other countries on helicopter production.\" - said by the Minister of Defence Industry of Azerbaijan, Yavar Jamalov. He also mentioned that recently the Ukrainian Premier Minister offered Azerbaijan joint production of 100 helicopters and it is possible. According to him, the Ministry of Defence Industry of Azerbaijan is in the negotiations with some other countries as well as Ukraine.\n\nIn 2011, the reconstructed instrument-making plant of the Jihaz Production Association of the Ministry of Defence Industry was opened in Baku.\n\nIn 2011, production of unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) of the Aerostar and Orbiter-2M brands was continued.\n\nIn 2016, the industry started its own production of short-range missiles. Approximately 125 types of products are being developed, and projects for creating air-to-ground, air-to-air, and ground-to-ground missiles are being implemented.\n\nOn February 14, 2017, there was a demonstration of the national armoured vehicle “Tufan”, which is resistant to mines. About six months was spent for the development of this armoured vehicle.\n\nOn June 23, 2017, the opening ceremony of a plant for the production of various types of MSGL grenade rounds and 40 types grenade launchers of the Sharg Production Association of the Ministry was held in Shirvan. The main goal of this plant is to organize the production of four types of grenade rounds: fragmentation, cumulative fragmentation, lighting and smoke for 40x46 mm revolving grenade launchers capable of meeting the standards of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO).\n\nThe improvement of the Gürzə armoured vehicle continues by attaching new combat modules to it.\n\n"}
{"id": "48576311", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48576311", "title": "Mohammed Al Barwani", "text": "Mohammed Al Barwani\n\nMohamed bin Ali bin Mohamed Al Barwani (born 1951/1952) is an Omani billionaire businessman, the founder, owner and chairman of MB Holding, which operates in oil and gas exploration and production, oilfield services, engineering and mining.\n\nMohammed Al Barwani was born in Oman. He has a bachelor's degree in microbiology from Miami University, Ohio, US, and a master's degree in petroleum engineering from Heriot-Watt University in Edinburgh, and received an honorary PhD from the same university, yet styles himself as \"Dr. Mohammed Al Barwani\". According to \"Bloomberg\", Barwani has a \"Bachelor of Science degree in Chemical Engineering from the University of Texas at Austin in 1981\".\n\nBarwani started his career in the oil industry as a reservoir engineer for Petroleum Development Oman (PDO), a joint venture of Shell and the Government of Oman, where he worked from 1976 to 1986. \n\nAl Barwani founded MB Holding in 1982 to provide oilfield services. MB expanded into oil and gas exploration and production, and then engineering services and subsequently founded Marwarid Mining in 1987 and Petrogas in 1999.\n\nBarwani owns the Dutch luxury yacht builder Oceanco which specializes in luxury yachts. He first visited the company in 2009 and acquired it from Greek businessman Theodore Angelopolous in 2010. In 2015 Barwani bought the Turkish shipyard Turquoise Yachts. \n\nHe runs Musstir, a property developer with \"stakes in several hotels in Oman\".\n\nBarwani was a member of the board of directors of the National Bank of Oman. He is a member of the board of Nautilus Minerals.\n\nAl Barwani received an honorary doctorate from Heriot-Watt University in 2010. He also received a honorary doctorate degree from Miami University in 2013.\n\nBarwani is the honorary consul of Poland to Oman.\n\nAs of March 2015, \"Forbes\" estimated his net worth at US$1.2 billion. He dropped off \"The World's Billionaires\" in 2016.\n\nHe is married to Sharifa al Harthy, who has always been involved in the company, and is deputy chairman of MB Holding.\n\nThey have five children, and live in Muscat, Oman. All five children work for MB Holding.\n\nBarwani owns several boats, with the 32 metre yacht \"Sharifa\" being the biggest. He is a member of the International SeaKeepers Society.\n"}
{"id": "28357747", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28357747", "title": "National numbering agency", "text": "National numbering agency\n\nA national numbering agency (NNA) is the organisation in each country responsible for issuing International Securities Identification Numbers (ISIN) as described by the ISO 6166 standard and the Classification of Financial Instruments code as described by the ISO 10962 standard. The role of NNA is typically assigned to the national stock exchange, central bank, or financial regulator but may be as diverse as a financial data provider or clearing and custodian organisation for that country.\n\nThere is a global governing body that coordinates the work of the NNAs called the Association of National Numbering Agencies (ANNA).\n\n"}
{"id": "28233283", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28233283", "title": "New York Evening Post Building", "text": "New York Evening Post Building\n\nThe New York Evening Post Building, also known as the New York Post Building or the Post Towers, is a historic commercial building located in Lower Manhattan, New York City, New York. The building was designed by architect Horace Trumbauer and built in 1926.\n\nThe Post Building is a 17-story, Art Deco style steel frame and masonry building with abundant terra cotta and Guastavino tile embellishments. The building has setbacks beginning at the seventh floor and a \"U\" shaped light well. The \"New York Evening Post\" previously occupied the Old New York Evening Post Building from 1906 to 1926. It occupied this building, which is now an apartment building, until 1970. It was added to the National Register of Historic Places on September 22, 2000.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21163616", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21163616", "title": "Nils Christoffer Bøckman", "text": "Nils Christoffer Bøckman\n\nNils Christoffer Bøckman (6 July 1880 – 22 December 1973) was a Norwegian lieutenant-colonel and businessperson.\n\nBorn in Trondheim, Bøckman was educated at the military academy, graduating as lieutenant in 1901. He was promoted to captain in 1905, major in 1930, and lieutenant-colonel as part of his participation in World War II in Northern Norway.\n\nBøckman started working for Meråker Brug, where he was responsible for the estates in Verdal. He was also president of Trondhjems Skiklub. In 1916, he was elected into the board of the tramway company Graakalbanen. In 1919, he was hired as director of the company, and would remain in the position until 1966, when the company was nationalized. During World War II, two members of the company's board were executed. When Bøckman would not call in the Nazi-appointed board that replaced them, he was arrested and spent the rest of the war in the prison camps Falstad and Grini. Being arrested on 2 March 1943, he was imprisoned at Grini from 19 March 1944 to 8 May 1945.\n"}
{"id": "6239436", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6239436", "title": "Paek Son-haeng", "text": "Paek Son-haeng\n\nPaek Son-haeng (1848 November – 1933) was a Korean businesswoman known for her philanthropy. The name \"Son Haeng\" means virtuous deeds, and was a nickname bestowed on her due to her contributions. North Korean sources claim that she was born in modern-day Chung-kuyŏk, Pyongyang, but South Korean sources claim that she was born in Suwon. She was widowed at the age of 16 or 20, and spent the rest of her life saving money while spending very little. Regardless of her place of birth, she spent most of her life in Pyongyang, where most of her donations were made.\n\nPaek has often been used by the North Korean regime as an example of a good capitalist, and contrasted to the majority of capitalists who were miserly and non-patriotic. She is mentioned in Kim Il Sung's \"With the Century\" as someone respected by the people as \"a great war hero\" due to her success in making money under the Japanese regime. In July 2006, her memorial stone was rediscovered and restored in Pyongyang.\n\nPaek made her first major donation after turning 61 in 1908 (see East Asian age reckoning), when she supported the construction of the Paeksŏn Bridge across the Taedong River. In 1922, she built a three-story public assembly hall in Pyongyang. She donated land to the Kwangson School, a public school in Pyongyang, in 1923, and to the Changdok School in 1924. Thereafter she also provided land and an endowment to the school run by Samuel Austin Moffet, and also provided large amounts land to the Sunghyon School in Pyongyang. In 1925, she donated her entire fortune to charity groups.\n\nThe Japanese colonial government offered her an award for her contributions, but she refused.\n\n"}
{"id": "15785420", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15785420", "title": "Paul Borghgraef", "text": "Paul Borghgraef\n\nPaul Borghgraef (born 13 July 1954) is a Belgian businessman. He is a son of Theo Borghgraef and Suzanne Collin, who is a daughter of Fernand Collin. He is a member of the board of directors of the KBC Group.\n\nHe obtained a degree in Accounting and Fiscal Studies and a postgraduate degree in computer science and social legislation from the \"Economische Hogeschool\" in Antwerp. \n\nHe was formerly Managing Director of Krefima and Concentra, and Director of Kredietbank S.A. Luxembourgeoise. He is Chairman of the Board of Directors of Retail Estates. He was appointed Director of Almanij in 2000 and became a member of its Management Committee in 2001. When in 2005, Almanij merged with KBC to form the KBC Group, he became a member of the board of the new group.\n\n"}
{"id": "4486698", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4486698", "title": "Peter Pek", "text": "Peter Pek\n\nPeter Pek is a Malaysian businessman, and the chief executive of the World Branding Forum, a global non-profit organisation that manages and supports a range of programmes. He is also the executive producer of the World Branding Awards. He is the former creative director of \"New Nation\", a British tabloid; the editor-in-chief of \"Food & Beverage\" magazine; and publisher of Malaysian \"Superbrands\";. He was a host and judge of the corporate reality television series \"The Firm\". He also starred in \"The Firm\" with Chan Boon Yong. The second season of the hit show premièred on 2 August 2008.\n\nPek hails from Ipoh, Perak, Malaysia, and studied at St. Michael's Institution, before moving to Sydney, Australia when he was 13. Educated in Sydney, Pek qualified as a Chartered Designer in 1993. He is the chief executive of the World Branding Forum and the executive producer of the World Branding Awards.\n\nPek began his career in publishing as a columnist for Sydney-based \"Livewire Magazine\" in 1987. In the 1990s, Pek designed launch publications, having worked on the launch editions of \"Microsoft magazine\" and \"SkyPlus\" magazine (now known as \"Sky Magazine\") for Sky TV. In 1995, he was appointed designer to \"The Voice\", Europe's largest African-Caribbean newspaper. The following year, he was hired to design the launch edition of \"New Nation\" newspaper, a British tabloid. In the late 1990s, Pek worked with \"The Guardian\" and \"The Observer\" newspapers. He was also the creative director of \"Galazee\" magazine for the Indian satellite station, Zee TV. He had a stint at the \"Australian Financial Review\" before being appointed in 1999 as editor-in-chief of Manila-based \"Food & Beverage Magazine\".\n\nIn 2007, Peter appeared in \"The Firm\", Malaysia's first corporate reality television program.\n\nIn 2008, Pek hosted his own talk show on Radio24. His program, \"Brand Malaysia with Peter Pek\" aired every Tuesday at 7-8pm, with repeats throughout the week. The show premièred on New Year's Day, 2008. \n\nA Rotarian, Peter is a past president of the Rotary Club of Gombak, Kuala Lumpur, and district secretary (communications) for Rotary International District 3300. He is a trustee of the Rotary Club of Gombak Charity Foundation. He was formerly the honorary secretary of the Malaysian chapter of the International Advertising Association.\n\n"}
{"id": "3605620", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3605620", "title": "Rein Otsason", "text": "Rein Otsason\n\nRein Otsason (24 May 1931 in Tartu, Estonia – 30 October 2004 in Tallinn, Estonia) was an Estonian banker.\n\nOtsason grew up in southern Estonia. After obtaining secondary education he came to study in Tallinn and graduated in 1954 from Tallinn Polytechnical Institute as an economist. He became one of the leading researchers on economics, being finally nominated as the Director of the Institute of Economics at the Estonian Academy of Sciences. Otsason completed a doctorate in economics in 1984.\n\nFrom 1988 to 1989 he worked as the Head of the State Plan Committee of the Estonian SSR. Those were the years of political and economical liberation, the beginning of breaking away from the Soviet system. On 15 December 1989 the Estonian government decided to establish the Bank of Estonia (\"Eesti Pank\"). On 28 December 1989 the Bank Law of the Republic of Estonia was passed and Otsason was appointed the first President of the Bank of Estonia. On 1 January 1990 the Bank of Estonia began its work as independent bank of issue.\n\nOtsason led the Bank of Estonia in its very first years when legal acts regulating the activities of the bank were created and monetary reform to re-establish Estonian kroon as the national currency of Estonia was prepared. On 15 March 1990 the Statutes of the Bank of Estonia were approved; on 15 May 1990 the procedure for establishment of commercial banks was established. The programmes for transition to national currency were finished in November 1990 and next year started the preparations for monetary reform.\n\nOtsason participated in the work of Monetary Reform Committee established on 27 March 1991 and led by Prime Minister Edgar Savisaar. He signed on 10 May 1991 a contract with the company Thomas De La Rue & Co Ltd. for printing banknotes of Estonian kroons. Although his work was crucial for the success of monetary reform, he was not the one to supervise the reform. His wish to postpone the monetary reform until a way will be found to alleviate social problems caused by the reform led to confrontation with his superiors and on 23 September 1991 he was replaced with Siim Kallas. The reform took place on 20 June 1992. \n\nOtsason and Siim Kallas are often called the \"fathers of Estonian kroon\". Otsason was decorated by the President of the Republic with the Estonian Order of the Coat of Arms, 4th class (2003).\n\nOtsason started to work on creating his own bank. The commercial bank known as Estonian Credit Bank (\"Eesti Krediidipank\") was established on 15 March 1992. Otsason was the leader of the bank from its establishment till his death, first as the Chairman of the Board and since 2000 as the Chairman of the Council. He and his wife Valentina Otsason were also the main shareholders of the Estonian Credit Bank. Using his extensive knowledge and connections he managed to maintain the bank even during the economical and financial crisis of 1997-1999 when numerous small financial institutions went bankrupt. \n\nAs the President of the Estonian Credit Bank he was also a board member of the Estonian Banking Association (\"Eesti Pangaliit\").\n\nIn 2003 Otsason started co-operation with the Bank of Moscow, which obtained 18,69% of the shares of the Estonian Credit Bank through its subsidiary company Latvian Business Bank. After Otsason's death, the Latvian Business Bank became a major shareholder of the Estonian Credit Bank, obtaining 60% of shares on 2 August 2005.\n\nOtsason was a member of the Union for the Republic - Res Publica and was a candidate at the Estonian parliamentary election, 2003. He was elected to the Estonian Parliament (Riigikogu), but turned down his seat and decided to continue his work in the bank.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9059610", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9059610", "title": "Robert Noortman", "text": "Robert Noortman\n\nRobert Christiaan Noortman (5 March 1946 – 14 January 2007) was a Dutch art dealer.\n\nNoortman, born in Heemstede opened his first gallery in Hulsberg. In 1974 he expanded to London and later also to New York City. In 1980 he moved his Hulsberg gallery to Maastricht to merge it with the already existing gallery there, while he closed his foreign galleries. In June 2006 he sold his last gallery for 44 million euros and still remained in function as a director.\n\nRobert Noortman was instrumental in the founding of the Maastricht-based The European Fine Art Fair and for ten years was TEFAF's director.\n\nFor fun Noortman studied for and graduated as a commercial pilot and later flew through twelve European countries in one single day by daylight. This record was named in the Guinness Book of Records.\n\nNoortman suffered from osteoarthritis and cancer, but died because of a myocardial infarction on 14 January 2007 in Kuttekoven, two days after he received an award from the city of Maastricht for his positive influence on Maastricht and its area. Earlier in his life he already won the title of \"Honorary Liveryman of the City of London\" and the \" Chevalier de l’Ordre des Arts et des Lettres\" in France.\n\nShortly after his death Noortman was accused of art theft, willful destruction of artworks and insurance fraude. The investigations by the police, private detectives, the Art Loss Register, Sotheby's and the insurance companies involved, has not led to a verdict.\n\nThe gallery, owned by Sotheby's, continued with Noortman's son William as its director, but suffered from negative publicity. After moving first to Amsterdam and then to London, it closed in 2013.\n\n"}
{"id": "51176589", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51176589", "title": "Rohit Chadda", "text": "Rohit Chadda\n\nRohit Chadda (born 26 August 1982) is an investment banker turned serial entrepreneur and is the co-founder of online food ordering platform foodpanda.com. He is also the founder of omni-channel payments platform Paylo.\n\nChadda graduated from Delhi Technological University (formerly Delhi College of Engineering) with a degree in computer engineering and worked as a software engineer for Computer Sciences Corporation. In 2007 he joined Indian Institute of Management Calcutta to do his MBA after which he worked at Merrill Lynch as an Investment Banker in United Kingdom. He took an internal transfer to India in 2011.\n\nChadda began his entrepreneurial journey in 2012 when he co-founded foodpanda. Before foodpanda got popular he used to tell people that he delivers pizza for a living. Foodpanda is active in over 40 countries across the world with over 22,000 restaurant partners and has raised a total investment of over USD 100 million till August 2014.. In 2015, he launched a multi-channel offline payments platform Paylo which acquired the in-restaurant payments app Ruplee in March 2016 for an undisclosed sum. Chadda believes that execution is more important than the idea to make a startup successful and the key challenge for experienced professionals to work in a startup environment is to unlearn what they have previously learned. \n\nChadda is a mentor at Esselerator, a Startup accelerator by Subhash Chandra Foundation. Esselerator is an initiative by Subhash Chandra, a billioniare Media baron, to promote and support tech entrepreneurs in domains like Media, Fintech and Education. Its powered by TiE Mumbai. Chadda is an angel investor in the online school aggregator platform SchoolForSure.com. \n\n"}
{"id": "50967894", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50967894", "title": "Ryutaro Nomura", "text": "Ryutaro Nomura\n\nRyutaro Nomura () (February 27, 1859 – September 18, 1943) was a Japanese businessman. He was born in Gifu Prefecture. He was a graduate of the University of Tokyo. He was twice President of the South Manchuria Railway (1913–1914, 1919–1921). He was a recipient of the Order of the Sacred Treasure and the Order of the Rising Sun.\n"}
{"id": "5758007", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5758007", "title": "Standard International Trade Classification", "text": "Standard International Trade Classification\n\nStandard International Trade Classification (SITC) is a classification of goods used to classify the exports and imports of a country to enable comparing different countries and years. The classification system is maintained by the United Nations. The SITC classification, is currently at revision four, which was promulgated in 2006.\n\nThe SITC is recommended only for analytical purposes - trade statistics are recommended to be collected and compiled in the Harmonized System instead.\n\nThe following excerpt was taken from the United Nations Statistics Division, international trade statistics branch:\n\n\"For compiling international trade statistics on all merchandise entering international trade, and to promote international comparability of international trade statistics. The commodity groupings of SITC reflect (a) the materials used in production, (b) the processing stage, (c) market practices and uses of the products, (d) the importance of the commodities in terms of world trade, and (e) technological changes.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34221000", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34221000", "title": "Tenant screening", "text": "Tenant screening\n\nTenant screening is a process used primarily by residential landlords and property managers to evaluate prospective tenants. The purpose is to assess the likelihood the tenant will fulfill the terms of the lease or rental agreement and will also take great care of the rental property in question. The process culminates in a decision as to whether to approve the applicant, approve the applicant conditionally (such as requiring an increased deposit or cosigner) or deny tenancy.\n\nThe tenant screening process typically begins when the prospective tenant (each adult applicant) completes a rental application, pays an application fee and perhaps a holding deposit.\n\nRental applications are designed to collect personally identifying information (name, social security number and date of birth, etc.), address, employment, criminal and eviction history. A signature is generally required, attesting to the accuracy of information provided, agreeing to certain terms and conditions and authorizing procurement of a tenant screening report.\n\nValid government issued photo identification is typically required to confirm the identity of applicants and in compliance with the Federal Trade Commission's (FTC's) identity theft Red Flags Rule.\n\nMost landlords rely on a tenant screening company to produce a tenant screening report - to compile relevant credit, public records and other information needed to adequately vet prospective tenants. Information gleaned from the application, tenant screening report and the landlord's own research is used to arrive at a decision based on landlord's rental criteria.\n\nApplicant initiated tenant screening services are beginning to emerge. Under this model, applicants order reports on themselves and grant access to prospective landlords.\n\nTenant screening services are specialized consumer reporting agencies (CRAs) or investigative consumer reporting agencies as defined and regulated by the Fair Credit Reporting Act (FCRA), 15 U.S.C. § 1681 et seq.\n\nCRAs have many obligations under the FCRA. Notably,they must establish the identity of each end-user (landlord) and the purpose for which the information is sought - before providing a tenant screening report. \n\nTenant screening reports contain one or more of the following elements:\n\nCredit reports and database searches are often returned instantly via secure web sites. Additional information resulting from more in-depth public records searches, rental references and employment verifications can take anywhere from a few hours to a few days.\n\nLandlords are Users of Consumer Reports, also as defined and regulated by the FCRA. The FCRA imposes specific requirements on landlords as Users. Notably, they must \"…provide oral, written, or electronic notice of adverse action taken based in whole or in part on any information contained in a consumer (tenant screening] report. Adverse action is a determination that is adverse to the interest of the consumer. Certainly denial of tenancy is an adverse action. But so too is attaching additional terms, such as requiring an additional deposit or co-signer. The notification must include:\n\nThe Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Dodd-Frank) amended Section 615 of the FCRA to add a new requirement that a person (landlord) taking Adverse Action… “provide to the consumer written or electronic disclosure (A) of a numerical credit score as defined in section 609(f)(2)(A) [of the FCRA] used by such person in taking any Adverse Action based in whole or in part on any information in a consumer report; and (B) of the information set forth in subparagraphs (B) through (E) of section 609(f)(1),” including:\n\nThere is a substantial body of law regulating consumer reporting. The FCRA, 15 U.S.C. § 1681 et seq. as amended by the Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act of 2003 (FACTA) and more recently by Dodd-Frank is the primary body of law regulating consumer reporting. Many states have laws regulating consumer reporting as well. Section 625 of the FCRA (15 U.S.C. § 1681t) addresses the Relation (of the FCRA) to State laws by stating that \"…this title does not annul, alter, affect, or exempt any person subject to the provisions of this title from complying with the laws of any State with respect to collection, distribution, or use of any information on consumer, …except to the extent that those laws are inconsistent with any provision of this title…\". Federal law is said to pre-empt state law to the extent of any inconsistencies.\n\nDodd-Frank transferred regulatory authority over consumer reporting (and therefore tenant screening companies) from the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) to the new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau in 2011.\n\nFederal and state fair housing and residential landlord-tenant law impact the tenant screening process in several ways. It is, in a nutshell, a violation of fair housing law to treat protected individuals differently in the tenant screening process. Fair housing law at the federal level is found in Title VIII of the Civil Rights Act of 1968. Residential landlord-tenant law often limits what landlords may charge for tenant screening to the actual costs in obtaining the background information, not to exceed the customary costs charged by a screening service in the general area.\n\nFair housing advocates have long argued for application of the disparate impact legal theory (historically applied to employment practices) to Title VIII (Fair Housing Act) claims. They argue, for example, that people of certain races and ethnicities are disproportionately represented in the criminal justice system, that use of criminal records data for tenant screening purposes has a disparate impact on those individuals and is therefore discriminatory.\n\nThe debate was largely settled in 2015 when in the Texas Department of Housing and Community Affairs(The Department) v. The Inclusive Communities Project, Inc.(ICP), the Supreme Court of the United States affirmed that a facially neutral business practice that has a disparate impact on a protected class can form the basis of a Fair Housing Act claim. The decision was in part based upon the Housing & Urban Development (HUD) regulation interpreting the Fair Housing Act's Discriminatory Effects Standard - including its burden-shifting framework for adjudicating such claims.\n\nLandlords have a right and obligation to take reasonable steps to protect themselves, their residents and neighbors from prospective residents with a history of violent felonies (for example). Landlords can take steps to reduce their exposure to disparate impact claims by limiting consideration to criminal convictions (versus arrests), to offenses that are relevant to the tenancy, and that occur within a reasonable period of time.\n\nNote section 605 of the FCRA prohibits CRA's from reporting records of arrest which from the date of final disposition antedate the report by more than seven years. Some states similarly limit reporting of criminal convictions - while there is no such limit in the FCRA.\n"}
{"id": "1337683", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1337683", "title": "Theory of the firm", "text": "Theory of the firm\n\nThe theory of the firm consists of a number of economic theories that explain and predict the nature of the firm, company, or corporation, including its existence, behaviour, structure, and relationship to the market.\n\nIn simplified terms, the theory of the firm aims to answer these questions:\n\nFirms exist as an alternative system to the market-price mechanism when it is more efficient to produce in a non-market environment. For example, in a labor market, it might be very difficult or costly for firms or organizations to engage in production when they have to hire and fire their workers depending on demand/supply conditions. It might also be costly for employees to shift companies every day looking for better alternatives. Similarly, it may be costly for companies to find new suppliers daily. Thus, firms engage in a long-term contract with their employees or a long-term contract with suppliers to minimize the cost or maximize the value of property rights.\n\nThe First World War period saw change of emphasis in economic theory away from industry-level analysis which mainly included analyzing markets to analysis at the level of the firm, as it became increasingly clear that perfect competition was no longer an adequate model of how firms behaved. Economic theory until then had focused on trying to understand markets alone and there had been little study on understanding why firms or organisations exist. Markets are guided by prices and quality as illustrated by vegetable markets where a buyer is free to switch sellers in an exchange.\n\nThe need for a revised theory of the firm was emphasized by empirical studies by Adolf Berle and Gardiner Means, who made it clear that ownership of a typical American corporation is spread over a wide number of shareholders, leaving control in the hands of managers who own very little equity themselves. R. L. Hall and Charles J. Hitch found that executives made decisions by rule of thumb rather than in the marginalist way. \n\nAccording to Ronald Coase, people begin to organise their production in firms when the transaction cost of coordinating production through the market exchange, given imperfect information, is greater than within the firm.\n\nRonald Coase set out his transaction cost theory of the firm in 1937, making it one of the first (neo-classical) attempts to define the firm theoretically in relation to the market. One aspect of its 'neoclassicism' lies in presenting an explanation of the firm consistent with constant returns to scale, rather than relying on increasing returns to scale. Another is in defining a firm in a manner which is both realistic and compatible with the idea of substitution at the margin, so instruments of conventional economic analysis apply. He notes that a firm’s interactions with the market may not be under its control (for instance because of sales taxes), but its internal allocation of resources are: “Within a firm, … market transactions are eliminated and in place of the complicated market structure with exchange transactions is substituted the entrepreneur … who directs production.” He asks why alternative methods of production (such as the price mechanism and economic planning), could not either achieve all production, so that either firms use internal prices for all their production, or one big firm runs the entire economy. \n\nCoase begins from the standpoint that markets could in theory carry out all production, and that what needs to be explained is the existence of the firm, with its \"distinguishing mark … [of] the supersession of the price mechanism.\" Coase identifies some reasons why firms might arise, and dismisses each as unimportant:\n\n\nInstead, for Coase the main reason to establish a firm is to avoid some of the transaction costs of using the price mechanism. These include discovering relevant prices (which can be reduced but not eliminated by purchasing this information through specialists), as well as the costs of negotiating and writing enforceable contracts for each transaction (which can be large if there is uncertainty). Moreover, contracts in an uncertain world will necessarily be incomplete and have to be frequently re-negotiated. The costs of haggling about division of surplus, particularly if there is asymmetric information and asset specificity, may be considerable. \n\nIf a firm operated internally under the market system, many contracts would be required (for instance, even for procuring a pen or delivering a presentation). In contrast, a real firm has very few (though much more complex) contracts, such as defining a manager's power of direction over employees, in exchange for which the employee is paid. These kinds of contracts are drawn up in situations of uncertainty, in particular for relationships which last long periods of time. Such a situation runs counter to neo-classical economic theory. The neo-classical market is instantaneous, forbidding the development of extended agent-principal (employee-manager) relationships, of planning, and of trust. Coase concludes that “a firm is likely therefore to emerge in those cases where a very short-term contract would be unsatisfactory”, and that “it seems improbable that a firm would emerge without the existence of uncertainty”.\n\nHe notes that government measures relating to the market (sales taxes, rationing, price controls) tend to increase the size of firms, since firms internally would not be subject to such transaction costs. Thus, Coase defines the firm as \"the system of relationships which comes into existence when the direction of resources is dependent on the entrepreneur.\" We can therefore think of a firm as getting larger or smaller based on whether the entrepreneur organises more or fewer transactions.\n\nThe question then arises of what determines the size of the firm; why does the entrepreneur organise the transactions he does, why no more or less? Since the reason for the firm's being is to have lower costs than the market, the upper limit on the firm's size is set by costs rising to the point where internalising an additional transaction equals the cost of making that transaction in the market. (At the lower limit, the firm’s costs exceed the market’s costs, and it does not come into existence.) In practice, diminishing returns to management contribute most to raising the costs of organising a large firm, particularly in large firms with many different plants and differing internal transactions (such as a conglomerate), or if the relevant prices change frequently.\n\nCoase concludes by saying that the size of the firm is dependent on the costs of using the price mechanism, and on the costs of organisation of other entrepreneurs. These two factors together determine how many products a firm produces and how much of each.\n\nAccording to Louis Putterman, most economists accept distinction between intra-firm and interfirm transaction but also that the two shade into each other; the extent of a firm is not simply defined by its capital stock. George Barclay Richardson for example, notes that a rigid distinction fails because of the existence of intermediate forms between firm and market such as inter-firm co-operation.\n\nKlein (1983) asserts that “Economists now recognise that such a sharp distinction does not exist and that it is useful to consider also transactions occurring within the firm as representing market (contractual) relationships.” The costs involved in such transactions that are within a firm or even between the firms are the transaction costs.\n\nUltimately, whether the firm constitutes a domain of bureaucratic direction that is shielded from market forces or simply “a legal fiction”, “a nexus for a set of contracting relationships among individuals” (as Jensen and Meckling put it) is “a function of the completeness of markets and the ability of market forces to penetrate intra-firm relationships”.\n\nIt was only in the 1960s that the neo-classical theory of the firm was seriously challenged by alternatives such as managerial and behavioral theories. Managerial theories of the firm, as developed by William Baumol (1959 and 1962), Robin Marris (1964) and Oliver E. Williamson (1966), suggest that managers would seek to maximise their own utility and consider the implications of this for firm behavior in contrast to the profit-maximising case. (Baumol suggested that managers’ interests are best served by maximising sales after achieving a minimum level of profit which satisfies shareholders.) More recently this has developed into ‘principal–agent’ analysis (e.g., Spence and Zeckhauser and Ross (1973) on problems of contracting with asymmetric information) which models a widely applicable case where a principal (a shareholder or firm for example) cannot costlessly infer how an agent (a manager or supplier, say) is behaving. This may arise either because the agent has greater expertise or knowledge than the principal, or because the principal cannot directly observe the agent’s actions; it is asymmetric information which leads to a problem of moral hazard. This means that to an extent managers can pursue their own interests. Traditional managerial models typically assume that managers, instead of maximising profit, maximise a simple objective utility function (this may include salary, perks, security, power, prestige) subject to an arbitrarily given profit constraint (profit satisficing).\n\nThe behavioural approach, as developed in particular by Richard Cyert and James G. March of the Carnegie School places emphasis on explaining how decisions are taken within the firm, and goes well beyond neoclassical economics. Much of this depended on Herbert A. Simon’s work in the 1950s concerning behaviour in situations of uncertainty, which argued that “people possess limited cognitive ability and so can exercise only ‘bounded rationality’ when making decisions in complex, uncertain situations”. Thus individuals and groups tend to \"satisfice\"—that is, to attempt to attain realistic goals, rather than maximize a utility or profit function. Cyert and March argued that the firm cannot be regarded as a monolith, because different individuals and groups within it have their own aspirations and conflicting interests, and that firm behaviour is the weighted outcome of these conflicts. Organisational mechanisms (such as \"satisficing\" and sequential decision-taking) exist to maintain conflict at levels that are not unacceptably detrimental. Compared to ideal state of productive efficiency, there is organisational slack (Leibenstein’s X-inefficiency).\n\nArmen Alchian and Harold Demsetz's analysis of team production extends and clarifies earlier work by Coase. Thus according to them the firm emerges because extra output is provided by team production, but that the success of this depends on being able to manage the team so that metering problems (it is costly to measure the marginal outputs of the co-operating inputs for reward purposes) and attendant shirking (the moral hazard problem) can be overcome, by estimating marginal productivity by observing or specifying input behaviour. Such monitoring as is therefore necessary, however, can only be encouraged effectively if the monitor is the recipient of the activity’s residual income (otherwise the monitor herself would have to be monitored, ad infinitum). For Alchian and Demsetz, the firm therefore is an entity which brings together a team which is more productive working together than at arm’s length through the market, because of informational problems associated with monitoring of effort. In effect, therefore, this is a \"principal-agent\" theory, since it is asymmetric information within the firm which Alchian and Demsetz emphasise must be overcome. In Barzel (1982)’s theory of the firm, drawing on Jensen and Meckling (1976), the firm emerges as a means of centralising monitoring and thereby avoiding costly redundancy in that function (since in a firm the responsibility for monitoring can be centralised in a way that it cannot if production is organised as a group of workers each acting as a firm).\n\nThe weakness in Alchian and Demsetz’s argument, according to Williamson, is that their concept of team production has quite a narrow range of application, as it assumes outputs cannot be related to individual inputs. In practice this may have limited applicability (small work group activities, the largest perhaps a symphony orchestra), since most outputs within a firm (such as manufacturing and secretarial work) are separable, so that individual inputs can be rewarded on the basis of outputs. Hence team production cannot offer the explanation of why firms (in particular, large multi-plant and multi-product firms) exist, etc.\n\nFor Oliver E. Williamson, the existence of firms derives from ‘asset specificity’ in production, where assets are specific to each other such that their value is much less in a second-best use. This causes problems if the assets are owned by different firms (such as purchaser and supplier), because it will lead to protracted bargaining concerning the gains from trade, because both agents are likely to become locked into a position where they are no longer competing with a (possibly large) number of agents in the entire market, and the incentives are no longer there to represent their positions honestly: large-numbers bargaining is transformed into small-number bargaining.\n\nIf the transaction is a recurring or lengthy one, re-negotiation may be necessary as a continual power struggle takes place concerning the gains from trade, further increasing the transaction costs. Moreover, there are likely to be situations where a purchaser may require a particular, firm-specific investment of a supplier which would be profitable for both; but after the investment has been made it becomes a sunk cost and the purchaser can attempt to re-negotiate the contract such that the supplier may make a loss on the investment (this is the hold-up problem, which occurs when either party asymmetrically incurs substantial costs or benefits before being paid for or paying for them). In this kind of a situation, the most efficient way to overcome the continual conflict of interest between the two agents (or coalitions of agents) may be the removal of one of them from the equation by takeover or merger. Asset specificity can also apply to some extent to both physical and human capital, so that the hold-up problem can also occur with labour (e.g. labour can threaten a strike, because of the lack of good alternative human capital; but equally the firm can threaten to fire).\n\nProbably the best constraint on such opportunism is reputation (rather than the law, because of the difficulty of negotiating, writing and enforcement of contracts). If a reputation for opportunism significantly damages an agent’s dealings in the future, this alters the incentives to be opportunistic.\n\nWilliamson sees the limit on the size of the firm as being given partly by costs of delegation (as a firm’s size increase its hierarchical bureaucracy does too), and the large firm’s increasing inability to replicate the high-powered incentives of the residual income of an owner-entrepreneur. This is partly because it is in the nature of a large firm that its existence is more secure and less dependent on the actions of any one individual (increasing the incentives to shirk), and because intervention rights from the centre characteristic of a firm tend to be accompanied by some form of income insurance to compensate for the lesser responsibility, thereby diluting incentives. Milgrom and Roberts (1990) explain the increased cost of management as due to the incentives of employees to provide false information beneficial to themselves, resulting in costs to managers of filtering information, and often the making of decisions without full information. This grows worse with firm size and more layers in the hierarchy. Empirical analyses of transaction costs have attempted to measure and operationalize transaction costs. Research that attempts to measure transaction costs is the most critical limit to efforts to potential falsification and validation of transaction cost economics.\n\nThe theory of the firm considers what bounds the size and output variety of firms. This includes how firms may be able to combine labour and capital so as to lower the average cost of output, either from increasing, decreasing, or constant returns to scale for one product line or from economies of scope for more than one product line.\n\nEfficiency wage models like that of Shapiro and Stiglitz (1984) suggest wage rents as an addition to monitoring, since this gives employees an incentive not to shirk, given a certain probability of detection and the consequence of being fired. Williamson, Wachter and Harris (1975) suggest promotion incentives within the firm as an alternative to morale-damaging monitoring, where promotion is based on objectively measurable performance. (The difference between these two approaches may be that the former is applicable to a blue-collar environment, the latter to a white-collar one). Leibenstein (1966) sees a firm’s norms or conventions, dependent on its history of management initiatives, labour relations and other factors, as determining the firm’s \"culture\" of effort, thus affecting the firm’s productivity and hence size.\n\nGeorge Akerlof (1982) develops a gift exchange model of reciprocity, in which employers offer wages unrelated to variations in output and above the market level, and workers have developed a concern for each other’s welfare, such that all put in effort above the minimum required, but the more able workers are not rewarded for their extra productivity; again, size here depends not on rationality or efficiency but on social factors. In sum, the limit to the firm’s size is given where costs rise to the point where the market can undertake some transactions more efficiently than the firm.\n\nRecently, Yochai Benkler further questioned the rigid distinction between firms and markets based on the increasing salience of “commons-based peer production” systems such as open source software (e.g., Linux), Wikipedia, Creative Commons, etc. He put forth this argument in \"The Wealth of Networks: How Social Production Transforms Markets and Freedom\", which was released in 2006 under a Creative Commons share-alike license.\n\nIn modern contract theory, the “theory of the firm” is often identified with the “property rights approach” that was developed by Sanford J. Grossman, Oliver D. Hart, and John H. Moore. The property rights approach to the theory of the firm is also known as the “Grossman-Hart-Moore theory”. In their seminal work, Grossman and Hart (1986), Hart and Moore (1990) and Hart (1995) developed the incomplete contracting paradigm. They argue that if contracts cannot specify what is to be done given every possible contingency, then property rights (and hence firm boundaries) matter. Specifically, consider a seller of an intermediate good and a buyer. Should the seller own the physical assets that are necessary to produce the good (non-integration) or should the buyer be the owner (integration)? After relationship-specific investments have been made, the seller and the buyer bargain. When they are symmetrically informed, they will always agree to collaborate. Yet, the division of the ex post surplus depends on the parties’ disagreement payoffs (the payoffs they would get if no ex post agreement were reached), which in turn depend on the ownership structure. Thus, the ownership structure has an influence on the incentives to invest. A central insight of the theory is that the party with the more important investment decision should be the owner. Another prominent conclusion is that joint asset ownership is suboptimal if investments are in human capital. \n\nThe Grossman-Hart-Moore model has been successfully applied in many contexts, e.g. with regard to privatization. Chiu (1998) and DeMeza and Lockwood (1998) have extended the model by considering different bargaining games that the parties may play ex post (which can explain ownership by the less important investor). Oliver Williamson (2002) has criticized the Grossman-Hart-Moore model because it is focused on ex ante investment incentives, while it neglects ex post inefficiencies. Schmitz (2006) has studied a variant of the Grossman-Hart-Moore model in which a party may have or acquire private information about its disagreement payoff, which can explain ex post inefficiencies and ownership by the less important investor. Several variants of the Grossman-Hart-Moore model such as the one with private information can also explain joint ownership.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3194339", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3194339", "title": "Thomas King Carroll", "text": "Thomas King Carroll\n\nThomas King Carroll (April 29, 1793 – October 3, 1873) served as the 21st Governor of the state of Maryland in the United States from 1830 to 1831. He also served as a judge, and in the Maryland House of Delegates from 1816 to 1817.\n\nHe was born at Kingston Hall, in Somerset County, Maryland on April 29, 1793, the son of Col. Henry James Carroll and Elizabeth (Barnes) King. He was related to Charles Carroll of Carrollton, who was one of the Founding Fathers of the United States. He attended Charlotte Hall School, then in 1802, he entered Washington Academy in Somerset County where he remained for the next eight years. He then become a junior at the University of Pennsylvania and graduated in 1811. Carroll studied law, first in the office of Ephraim King Wilson in Snow Hill, then under Robert Goodloe Harper in Baltimore. On June 23, 1814, he had married Julianna Stevenson and they had nine children, one of whom was Anna Ella Carroll (1815–1893).\n\nFollowing his father’s death, he returned to Kingston Hall where he became the manager of the family’s estate. Shortly after, he became active in the political affairs of that county. During the sessions of 1816 and 1817, Carroll was elected without opposition to the House of Delegates. He was a member of the Levy Court of Somerset County between July 1825 and February 1826, when he was appointed Judge of the Orphans’ Court. He was serving in that office when he was elected Governor in December 1829. He had also served as a Senatorial elector in 1821 and 1826.\n\nCarroll was elected governor on January 4, 1830, defeating incumbent Daniel Martin by a vote of 50 to 43. While governor, he joined in the movement to improve the collegiate department of the University of Maryland, as well as that of advocating a statewide public school system. He also aided veterans of the Revolutionary War in their efforts to receive pensions and other benefits from then federal government. He lost reelection to Martin, and retired at the end of his one-year term. Carroll is the only Maryland Governor with the same predecessor and successor.\n\nCarroll retired to Kingston Hall at the close of his administration and lived there until 1840, when he moved to Dorchester County, Maryland, residing on a large estate near Church Creek. When Zachary Taylor became president in 1849, he appointed Carroll Naval Officer of the Port of Baltimore. (Naval Officers, Collectors and other appointees were responsible for assessing and collecting customs duties at U.S. ports, and for levying fines on those who attempted to avoid duties. They were compensated based on a percentage of the duties and fines collected, making the positions highly sought after political appointments.)\n\nHe died at his home Walnut Landing, in Dorchester County on October 3, 1873, and was buried in Old Trinity Church Cemetery following Masonic burial services.\n\n"}
{"id": "378430", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=378430", "title": "Unemployment benefits", "text": "Unemployment benefits\n\nUnemployment benefits (depending on the jurisdiction also called unemployment insurance or unemployment compensation) are payments made by back authorized bodies to unemployed people. In the United States, benefits are funded by a compulsory governmental insurance system, not taxes on individual citizens. Depending on the jurisdiction and the status of the person, those sums may be small, covering only basic needs, or may compensate the lost time proportionally to the previous earned salary.\n\nUnemployment benefits are generally given only to those registering as unemployed, and often on conditions ensuring that they seek work and do not currently have a job, and are validated as being laid off and not fired for cause in most states.\n\nThe first unemployment benefit scheme was introduced in the United Kingdom with the National Insurance Act 1911 under the Liberal Party government of H. H. Asquith. The popular measures were to combat the increasing influence of the Labour Party among the country's working-class population. The Act gave the British working classes a contributory system of insurance against illness and unemployment. It only applied to wage earners, however, and their families and the unwaged had to rely on other sources of support, if any. Key figures in the implementation of the Act included Robert Laurie Morant, and William Braithwaite.\n\nBy the time of its implementation, the benefit was criticized by communists, who thought such insurance would prevent workers from starting a revolution, while employers and tories saw it as a \"necessary evil\".\n\nThe scheme was based on actuarial principles and it was funded by a fixed amount each from workers, employers, and taxpayers. It was restricted to particular industries, particularly more volatile ones like shipbuilding, and did not make provision for any dependants. After one week of unemployment, the worker was eligible for receiving 7 shillings/week for up to 15 weeks in a year. By 1913, 2.3 million were insured under the scheme for unemployment benefit.\n\nThe Unemployment Insurance Act 1920 created the dole system of payments for unemployed workers. The dole system provided 39 weeks of unemployment benefits to over 11 million workers—practically the entire civilian working population except domestic service, farm workers, railroad men, and civil servants.\n\nUnemployment benefits were introduced in Germany in 1927, and in most European countries in the period after the Second World War with the expansion of the welfare state. Unemployment insurance in the United States originated in Wisconsin in 1932. Through the Social Security Act of 1935, the federal government of the United States effectively encouraged the individual states to adopt unemployment insurance plans.\n\nIn Argentina, successive administrations have used a variety of passive and active labour market interventions to protect workers against the consequences of economic shocks. The government's key institutional response to combat the increase in poverty and unemployment created by the crisis was the launch of an active unemployment assistance programme called Plan Jefas y Jefes de Hogar Desocupados (Program for Unemployed Heads of Households).\n\nIn Australia, social security benefits, including unemployment benefits, are funded through the taxation system. There is no compulsory national unemployment insurance fund. Rather, benefits are funded in the annual Federal Budget by the National Treasury and are administrated and distributed throughout the nation by the government agency, Centrelink. Benefit rates are indexed to the Consumer Price Index and are adjusted twice a year according to inflation or deflation.\n\nThere are two types of payment available to those experiencing unemployment. The first, called Youth Allowance, is paid to young people aged 16–20 (or 15, if deemed to meet the criteria for being considered 'independent' by Centrelink). Youth Allowance is also paid to full-time students aged 16–24, and to full-time Australian Apprenticeship workers aged 16–24. People aged below 18 who have not completed their High School education, are usually required to be in full-time education, undertaking an apprenticeship or doing training to be eligible for Youth Allowance. For single people under 18 years of age living with a parent or parents the basic rate is A$91.60 per week. For over-18- to 20-year-olds living at home this increases to A$110.15 per week. For those aged 18–20 not living at home the rate is A$167.35 per week. There are special rates for those with partners and/or children.\n\nThe second kind of payment is called Newstart Allowance and is paid to unemployed people over the age of 21 and under the pension eligibility age. To receive a Newstart payment, recipients must be unemployed, be prepared to enter into an Employment Pathway Plan (previously called an Activity Agreement) by which they agree to undertake certain activities to increase their opportunities for employment, be Australian Residents and satisfy the income test (which limits weekly income to A$32 per week before benefits begin to reduce, until one's income reaches A$397.42 per week at which point no unemployment benefits are paid) and the assets test (an eligible recipient can have assets of up to A$161,500 if he or she owns a home before the allowance begins to reduce and $278,500 if he or she does do not own a home). The rate of Newstart allowance as at 12 January 2010 for single people without children is A$228 per week, paid fortnightly. (This does not include supplemental payments such as Rent Assistance.) Different rates apply to people with partners and/or children.\n\nEffectively, people have had to survive on $39 a day from Newstart since 1994, and there have been calls to raise this by politicians and NGO groups.\n\nThe system in Australia is designed to support recipients no matter how long they have been unemployed. In recent years the former Coalition government under John Howard has increased the requirements of the Activity Agreement, providing for controversial schemes such as Work for the Dole, which requires that people on benefits for 6 months or longer work voluntarily for a community organisation regardless of whether such work increases their skills or job prospects. Since the Labor government under Kevin Rudd was elected in 2008, the length of unemployment before one is required to fulfill the requirements of the Activity Agreement (which has been renamed the Employment Pathway Plan) has increased from six to twelve months. There are other options available as alternatives to the Work for the Dole scheme, such as undertaking part-time work or study and training, the basic premise of the Employment Pathway Plan being to keep the welfare recipient active and involved in seeking full-time work.\n\nFor people renting their accommodation, unemployment benefits are supplemented by Rent Assistance, which, for single people as at 29 June 2012, begins to be paid when weekly rent is more than A$53.40. Rent Assistance is paid as a proportion of total rent paid (75 cents per dollar paid over $53.40 up to the maximum). The maximum amount of rent assistance payable is A$60.10 per week, and is paid when the total weekly rent exceeds A$133.54 per week. Different rates apply to people with partners and/or children, or who are sharing accommodation.\n\nExternal links\n\nIn Canada, the system now known as Employment Insurance was formerly called Unemployment Insurance. The name was changed in 1996, in order to alleviate perceived negative connotations. In 2015, Canadian workers pay premiums of 1.62% of insured earnings in return for benefits if they lose their jobs.\n\nThe Employment and Social Insurance Act was passed in 1935 during the Great Depression by the government of R.B. Bennett as an attempted Canadian unemployment insurance programme. It was, however, ruled unconstitutional by the Supreme Court of Canada as unemployment was judged to be an insurance matter falling under provincial responsibility. After a constitutional amendment was agreed to by all of the provinces, a reference to \"Unemployment Insurance\" was added to the matters falling under federal authority under the Constitution Act, 1867, and the first Canadian system was adopted in 1940. Because of these problems Canada was the last major Western country to bring in an employment insurance system. It was extended dramatically by Pierre Trudeau in 1971 making it much easier to get. The system was sometimes called the 10/42, because one had to work for 10 weeks to get benefits for the other 42 weeks of the year. It was also in 1971 that the UI program was first opened up to maternity and sickness benefits, for 15 weeks in each case.\n\nThe generosity of the Canadian UI programme was progressively reduced after the adoption of the 1971 UI Act. At the same time, the federal government gradually reduced its financial contribution, eliminating it entirely by 1990. The EI system was again cut by the Progressive Conservatives in 1990 and 1993, then by the Liberals in 1994 and 1996. Amendments made it harder to qualify by increasing the time needed to be worked, although seasonal claimants (who work long hours over short periods) turned out to gain from the replacement, in 1996, of weeks by hours to qualify. The ratio of beneficiaries to unemployed, after having stood at around 40 percent for many years, rose somewhat during the 2009 recession but then fell back again to the low 40s. Some unemployed persons are not covered for benefits (e.g. self-employed workers), while others may have exhausted their benefits, did not work long enough to qualify, or quit or were dismissed from their job. The length of time one could take EI has also been cut repeatedly. The 1994 and 1996 changes contributed to a sharp fall in Liberal support in the Atlantic provinces in the 1997 election.\n\nIn 2001, the federal government increased parental leave from 10 to 35 weeks, which was added to preexisting maternity benefits of 15 weeks. In 2004, it allowed workers to take EI for compassionate care leave while caring for a dying relative, although the strict conditions imposed make this a little used benefit. In 2006, the Province of Quebec opted out of the federal EI scheme in respect of maternity, parental and adoption benefits, in order to provide more generous benefits for all workers in that province, including self-employed workers. Total EI spending was $19.677 billion for 2011-2012 (figures in Canadian dollars).\n\nEmployers contribute 1.4 times the amount of employee premiums. Since 1990, there is no government contribution to this fund. The amount a person receives and how long they can stay on EI varies with their previous salary, how long they were working, and the unemployment rate in their area. The EI system is managed by Service Canada, a service delivery network reporting to the Minister of Employment and Social Development Canada.\n\nA bit over half of EI benefits are paid in Ontario and the Western provinces but EI is especially important in the Atlantic provinces, which have higher rates of unemployment. Many Atlantic workers are also employed in seasonal work such as fishing, forestry or tourism and go on EI over the winter when there is no work. There are special rules for fishermen making it easier for them to collect EI. EI also pays for maternity and parental leave, compassionate care leave, and illness coverage. The programme also pays for retraining programmes (EI Part II) through labour market agreements with the Canadian provinces.\n\nA significant part of the federal fiscal surplus of the Jean Chrétien and Paul Martin years came from the EI system. Premiums were reduced much less than falling expenditures - producing, from 1994 onwards, EI surpluses of several billion dollars per year, which were added to general government revenue. The cumulative EI surplus stood at $57 billion at 31 March 2008, nearly four times the amount needed to cover the extra costs paid during a recession. This drew criticism from Opposition parties and from business and labour groups, and has remained a recurring issue of the public debate. The Conservative Party, chose not to recognize those EI surpluses after being elected in 2006. Instead, the Conservative government cancelled the EI surpluses entirely in 2010, and required EI contributors to make up the 2009, 2010 and 2011 annual deficits by increasing EI premiums. On 11 December 2008, the Supreme Court of Canada rejected a court challenge launched against the federal government by two Quebec unions, who argued that EI funds had been misappropriated by the government.\n\nExternal links\n\nThe level of benefit is set between the minimum wage and the minimum living allowance by individual provinces, autonomous regions and municipalities.\n\nEach Member State of the European Union has its own system and in general a worker should claim unemployment benefits in the country where they last worked. For a person working in a country other than their country of residency (a cross-border worker), they will have to claim benefits in their country of residence.\n\nTwo systems run in parallel, combining a Ghent system and a minimum level of support provided by Kela, an agency of the national government. Unionization rates are high (70%), and union membership comes with membership in an unemployment fund. Additionally, there are non-union unemployment funds. Usually benefits require 26 weeks of 18 hours per week on average, and the unemployment benefit is 60% of the salary and lasts for 500 days. When this is not available, Kela can pay either regular unemployment benefit or labor market subsidy benefits. The former requires a degree and two years of full-time work. The latter requires participation in training, education, or other employment support, which may be mandated on pain of losing the benefit, but may be paid after the regular benefits have been either maxed out or not available. Although the unemployment funds handle the payments, most of the funding is from taxes and compulsory tax-like unemployment insurance charges.\n\nRegardless of whether benefits are paid by Kela or from an unemployment fund, the unemployed person receives assistance from the \"Työ- ja elinkeinokeskus\" (\"TE-keskus\", or the \"Work and Livelihood Centre\"), a government agency which helps people to find jobs and employers to find workers. In order to be considered unemployed, the seeker must register at the TE-keskus as unemployed. If the jobseeker does not have degree, the agency can require the jobseeker to apply to a school.\n\nIf the individual does not qualify for any unemployment benefit he may still be eligible for the housing benefit (\"asumistuki\") from Kela and municipal social welfare provisions (\"toimeentulotuki\"). They are not unemployment benefits and depend on household income, but they have in practice become the basic income of many long-term unemployed.\n\nFrance uses a quasi Ghent system, under which unemployment benefits are distributed by an independent agency (UNEDIC) in which unions and Employer organisations are equally represented. UNEDIC is responsible for 3 benefits: ARE, ACA and ASR The main ARE scheme requires a minimum of 122 days membership in the preceding 24 months and certain other requirements before any claims can be made. Employers pay a contribution on top of the pre-tax income of their employees, which together with the employee contribution, fund the scheme.\n\nThe maximum unemployment benefit is (as of March 2009) 57.4% of EUR 162 per day (Social security contributions ceiling in 2011), or 6900 euros per month. Claimants receive 57,4% of their average daily salary of the last 12 months preceding unemployment with the average amount being 1,111 euros per month. In France tax and other payroll taxes are paid on unemployment benefits. In 2011 claimants received the allowance for an average 291 days.\n\nGermany has two different types of unemployment benefits.\n\nThe \"unemployment benefit I\" in Germany is also known as the unemployment insurance. The insurance is administered by the federal employment agency and funded by employee and employer contributions. This in stark contrast to FUTA in the US and other systems; where only employers make contributions. Participation (and thus contributions) are generally mandatory for both employee and employer.\n\nAll workers with a regular employment contract (\"abhängig Beschäftigte\"), except freelancers and certain civil servants (\"Beamte\"), contribute to the system. Since 2006, certain previously excluded workers have been able to opt into the system on a voluntary basis.\n\nThe system is financed by contributions from employees and employers. Employees pay 1.5% of their gross salary below the social security threshold and employers pay 1.5% contribution on top of the salary paid to the employee. The contribution level was reduced from 3.25% for employees and employers as part of labour market reforms known as Hartz. Contributions are paid only on earnings up to the social security ceiling (2012: 5,600 EUR).\n\nThe system is largely self-financed but also receives a subsidy from the state to run the Jobcenters.\n\nUnemployed workers are entitled to:\n\nUnemployed benefit is paid to workers who have contributed at least during 12 months preceding their loss of a job. The allowance is paid for half of the period that the worker has contributed. Claimants get 60% of their previous net salary (capped at the social security ceiling), or 67% for claimants with children. The maximum benefit is therefore 2964 Euros (in 2012).\nIn 2011 the federal Work Agency had revenues and expenses of 37.5 bn EUR\n\nAfter a change in German law effective since 2008, provided their job history qualifies them, benefit recipients aged 50 to 54 now receive an unemployment benefit for 15 months, those 55 to 57 for 18 months and those 58 or older receive benefits for 24 months. For those under the age of 50 who have not been employed for more than 30 months in a job which paid into the social security scheme, full unemployment benefit can be received for a maximum period of 12 months. Note how the duration of eligibility is variegated in Germany to account for the difficulty older people have re-entering the job market.\n\nIf a worker is not eligible for the full unemployment benefits or after receiving the full unemployment benefit for the maximum of 12 months, he is able to apply for benefits from the so-called Arbeitslosengeld II (Hartz IV) programme, an open-ended welfare programme which ensures people do not fall into penury. A person receiving Hartz IV benefits is paid 404 EUR a month for living expenses plus the cost of adequate housing (including heating) and health care. Couples can receive benefits for each partner including their children. Additionally, children can get \"benefits for education and participation\". Germany does not have an EBT (electronic benefits transfer) card system in place and, instead, disburses welfare in cash or via direct deposit onto the recipient's bank account. People who receive Hartz 4 are obligated to seek for jobs and can be forced to take part in social programs or Mini jobs in order to receive this Hartz 4 money. Most of these programs and Mini jobs oblige the employee to work the same hours as a normal full-time job each day, 5 days a week. \n\nUnemployment benefits in Greece are administered through OAED (, Manpower Employment Organization) and are available only to laid-off salaried workers with full employment and social security payments during the previous two years. The self-employed do not qualify, and neither do those with other sources of income. The monthly benefit is fixed at the \"55% of 25 minimum daily wages\", and is currently 360 euros per month, with a 10% increase for each under-age child. Recipients are eligible for at most twelve months; the exact duration depends on the collected number of ensema \"ένσημα\", that is social security payment coupons-stamps collected (i.e. days of work) during the 14 months before being laid off; the minimum number of such coupons, under which there is no eligibility, is 125, collected in the first 12 of the 14 aforementioned months. Eligibility since 1 January 2013, has been further constrained in that one applying for unemployment benefits for a second or more time, must not have received more than the equivalent of 450 days of such benefits during the last four years since the last time one had started receiving such benefits; if one has received unemployment benefits in this period for more than 450 days then there is no eligibility while if one has received less, then one is only eligible for at most the remaining days up until the maximum of 450 days is reached.\n\nIn terms of an unemployment allowance, Greece allows for those found in unemployment, who are employed through an independent profession, to receive benefits if their latest paycheck had not exceed a certain amount, the current rate should not exceed € 1,467.35. When receiving benefits an individual cannot be earning money from a self-employed profession. If the income increases the fixed amount, a tax authority must issue a certificate that explains that the individual has \"interrupted the exercise of the profession\", which must be done within 15 days. Unemployment benefits are also granted to those who have generated an income that does not exceed €1,467.35 from the final paycheck received from a liberal profession. In order to receive a grant the individual must not be receiving an income from the previous liberal profession. Under the European Commission, liberal professions are professions that require specialized training and that are regulated by \"national governments or professional bodies\". Seasonal aid is also provided to workers whose jobs cannot be performed through the entire year are also provided benefits by the OAED. \n\nUnder the OAED, individuals who are benefiting from long-term unemployment must be within the ages of 20 to 66 years of age and have a family income that does not exceed € 10,000 annually. An individual becomes eligible for long-term benefits if the regular unemployment subsidy is exhausted after 12 months. After the expiration of the 12-month period an application towards long-term unemployment benefits must be submitted in the first 2 months. If an unemployed person seeks long term unemployment and has a child, the allowance is allowed to increase by € 586.08 (per child). Long-term unemployment can only be granted if the individual can be found registered under the OAED unemployment registrar.\n\nTo receive unemployment benefits in Iceland, one must submit an application to the Directorate of Labour (\"Vinnumálastofnun\") and meet a specific criteria set forth by the department. Icelandic employment rates have traditionally been higher than every other OECD country. In the most recent financial quarter, 85.8 percent of the Icelandic working-age population were employed, with only 2.8 percent of the population unemployed. When broken down by age group, Iceland's labor force is highly active, with 74.9 percent of the population between the ages of 15 to 24 years old and 89.4 percent of people between the ages of 25 to 55 years old active in the labor market. This low rate of unemployment is attributed to the adoption of the Ghent system, which has been adopted by the countries of Denmark, Finland and Sweden, and highly emphasizes trade and labor unions to provide unemployment benefits and protections to workers, which ultimately has led to higher union membership than other capitalist economies. The safety net that these unions provide also leads to more stable job retention and less reliance on part-time employment. Only 11.9 percent of the working population is dependent on temporary employment.\n\nUnlike purely social-democratic states in Europe, the Nordic model that Iceland adopted borrows aspects of both a social-democratic and liberal-welfare state. Iceland not only sees high government involvement in providing social welfare and amenities as with the social-democratic model, but like the liberal-welfare model, it is also heavily reliant on free trade and markets. The country relies on an open capitalistic market for economic growth, yet also embraces a corporatist system that allows for wage bargaining to occur between the labor force and employers in order to protect workers and ensure provisions like unemployment benefits are ensured. Currently, the legislation that ensures these benefits is The Act on Trade Unions and Industrial Disputes, which was adopted in 1938 and has been amended five times since its inception to adjust to the rise of globalization. In Section 1, Articles 1-13 grant trade unions the right to organize and negotiate with employers over fair wages for its members as well as representation for their members in the event of workplace conflicts. These rights for organized unions set forth by the Ministry of Welfare not only provide the country's labor force fair and equal representation within their respective industries, but also allow for these organizations to maintain an active relationship with the Icelandic government to discuss economic issues, promote labor and social equality, and ensure benefits for unemployed laborers, as these unions are highly centralized and not politically affiliated.Unemployment benefits in Iceland (\"atvinnuleysisbætur\") can involve up to 100 percent reimbursement per month for wage earners for a maximum of 30 months. However, these rates of reimbursement are determined by previous status of employment, such as whether an individual is a wage-earner or is self-employed, as well as meeting certain mandates such as being a current resident of Iceland, be actively searching for employment, and retaining a 25 percent position for three months within the past 12 months before filing for unemployment. Unemployed workers can be compensated through either basic or income-linked benefits. Basic unemployment benefits can cover both wage-earning and self-employing individuals for the first half-month (10 days) after they lose their job, whereas income-linked benefits can cover wage-earning and self-employing individuals for up to three months based on a set salary index and length of employment. However, those who are unemployed must report to the Directorate of Labour once a month to reaffirm their status of unemployment and that they are actively searching for employment or unemployment benefits could be revoked. Under the Icelandic Labour Law, employees must be given a notice period of termination that can range from 12 days to six months and is determined by the length of previous employment under the same employer.\n\nPeople aged 18 and over and who are unemployed in Ireland can apply for either the Jobseeker's Allowance (\"Liúntas do Lucht Cuardaigh Fostaíochta\") or the Jobseeker's Benefit (\"Sochar do Lucht Cuardaigh Fostaíochta\"). Both are paid by the Department of Social Protection and are nicknamed \"the dole\".\n\nUnemployment benefit in Ireland can be claimed indefinitely for as long as the individual remains unemployed. The standard payment is €193 per week for those aged 26 and over. For those aged 18 to 24 the rate is €100 per week. For those aged 25 the weekly rate is €144. Payments can be increased if the unemployed has dependents. For each adult dependent, another €124.80 is added, €100 if the recipient (as opposed to the dependent) is aged 18 to 24, and for each child dependent €29.80 is added.\n\nThere are more benefits available to unemployed people, usually on a special or specific basis. Benefits include the \"Rent Supplement\", the \"Mortgage Interest Supplement\" and the \"Fuel Allowance\", among others. People on a low income (which includes those on JA/JB) are entitled to a Medical Card (although this must be applied for separately from the Health Service Executive) which provides free health care, optical care, limited dental care, aural care and subsidised prescription drugs carrying a €2.50 per item charge to a maximum monthly contribution of €25 per household (as opposed to subsidised services like non medical-card holders).\n\nTo qualify for Jobseekers Allowance, claimants must satisfy the \"Habitual Residence Condition\": they must have been legally in the state (or the Common Travel Area) for two years or have another good reason (such as lived abroad and are returning to Ireland after become unemployed or deported). This condition does not apply to Jobseekers Benefit (which is based on Social Insurance payments).\n\nMore information on each benefit can be found here:\n\nIn Israel, unemployment benefits are paid by Bituah Leumi (the National Insurance Institute), to which workers must pay contributions. Eligible workers must immediately register with the Employment Service Bureau upon losing their jobs or jeopordize their eligibility, and the unemployment period is considered to start upon registration with the Employment Service Bureau. To be eligible for unemployment benefits, an employee must have completed a \"qualifying period\" of work for which unemployment insurance contributions were paid, which varies between 300 and 360 days. Employees who were involuntarily terminated from their jobs or who terminated their own employment and can provide evidence of having done so for a justified reason are eligible for immediately receiving unemployment benefits, while those who are deemed to have terminated their employment of their own volition with no justified reason will only begin receiving unemployment benefits 90 days from the start of their unemployment period. \n\nUnemployment benefits are paid daily, with the amount calculated based on the employee's previous income over the past six months, but not exceeding the daily average wage for the first 125 days of payment and two-thirds of the daily average wage from the 126th day onwards. During the unemployment period, the Employment Service Bureau assists in helping locate suitable work and job training, and regularly reporting to the Employment Service Bureau is a condition for continuing to receive unemployment benefits. A person who was offered suitable work or training by the Employment Service Bureau but refused will only receive unemployment benefits 90 days after the date of the refusal, and 30 days' worth of unemployment benefits will be deducted for each subsequent refusal.\n\nMembers of kibbutzim and moshavim are typically not covered by the national unemployment system and are covered by the community's own social welfare system, unless they are employed outside of their community or directly by the community.\n\nUnemployment benefits in Italy consists mainly in cash transfers based on contributions (\"Assicurazione Sociale per l'Impiego, ASPI\"), up to the 75 percent of the previous wages for up to sixteen months. Other measures are:\nIn the Italian unemployment insurance system all the measures are income-related, and they have an average decommodification level. The basis for entitlement is always employment, with more specific conditions for each case, and the provider is quite always the state. An interesting feature worthy to be discussed is that the Italian system takes in consideration also the economic situation of the employers, and aims as well at relieving them from the costs of crisis.\n\nUnemployment benefits in Japan are called \"unemployment insurance\" and are closer to the US or Canadian \"user pays\" system than the taxpayer funded systems in place in countries such as Britain, New Zealand, or Australia. It is paid for by contributions by both the employer and employee.\n\nOn leaving a job, employees are supposed to be given a \"Rishoku-hyo\" document showing their ID number (the same number is supposed to be used by later employers), employment periods, and pay (which contributions are linked to). The reason for leaving is also documented separately. These items affect eligibility, timing, and amount of benefits. The length of time that unemployed workers can receive benefits depends on the age of the employee, and how long they have been employed and paying in.\n\nIt is supposed to be compulsory for most full-time employees. If they have been enrolled for at least 6 months and are fired or made redundant, leave the company at the end of their contract, or their contract is non-renewed, the now-unemployed worker will receive unemployment insurance. If a worker quit of their own accord they may have to wait between 1 and 3 months before receiving any payment.\n\nMexico lacks a national unemployment insurance system, but it does have five programs to assist the unemployed: \n\n\n\n\n\n\nUnemployment benefits in the Netherlands were introduced in 1949. Separate schemes exist for mainland Netherlands and for the Caribbean Netherlands.\n\nThe scheme in mainland Netherlands entails that, according to the Werkloosheidswet (Unemployment Law, WW), employers are responsible for paying the contributions to the scheme, which are deducted from the salary received by the employees. In 2012 the contribution was 4.55% of gross salary up to a ceiling of 4,172 euros per month. The first 1,435.75 euros of an employees gross salaries are not subject to the 4.55% contribution.\n\nBenefits are paid for a maximum period of 38 months and claimants get 75% of last salary for 2 months and 70% thereafter with a maximum benefit of 3128 euros, depending on how long the claimant has been employed previously. Workers older than 50 years who are unemployed for over 2 months are entitled to a special benefit called the IOAW, if they do not receive the regular unemployment benefit (WW).\n\nIn New Zealand, Jobseeker Support, previously known as the Unemployment Benefit and also known as \"the dole\" provides income support for people who are looking for work or training for work. It is one of a number of benefits administered by Work and Income, a service of the Ministry of Social Development.\n\nTo get this benefit, a person must meet the conditions and obligations specified in section 88A to 123D Social Security Act 1964. These conditions and obligations cover things such as age, residency status, and availability to work.\n\nThe amount that is paid depends on things such as the person's age, income, marital status and whether they have children. It is adjusted annually on 1 April and in response to changes in legislature. Some examples of the maximum after tax weekly rate at 1 April 2011 are:\n\nMore information about this benefit and the amounts paid are on the Work and Income website.\n\nExternal links\n\nThe Spanish unemployment benefits system is part of the Social security system of Spain. Benefits are managed by the State Public Employment Agency (SEPE).The basis for entitlement is having contributed for a minimum period during the time preceding unemployment, with further conditions that may be applicable. The system comprises contributory benefits and non-contributory benefits.\n\nContributory benefits are payable to those unemployed persons with a minimum of 12 months contributions over a period of 6 years preceding unemployment. The benefit is payable for 1/3 of the contribution period. The benefit amount is 70% of the legal reference salary plus additional amounts for persons with dependants. The benefit reduces to 60% of the reference salary after 6 months. The minimum benefit is 497 euros per month and the maximum is 1087,20 euros per month for a single person. The non-contributory allowance is available to those persons who are no longer entitled to the contributory pension and who do not have income above 75% of the national minimum wage.\n\nSweden uses the Ghent system, under which a significant proportion of unemployment benefits are distributed by union unemployment funds. Unemployment benefits are divided into a voluntary scheme with income related compensation up to a certain level and a comprehensive scheme that provides a lower level of basic support. The voluntary scheme requires a minimum of 12 months membership and 6 months employment during that time before any claims can be made. Employers pay a fee on top of the pre-tax income of their employees, which together with membership fees, fund the scheme (see Unemployment funds in Sweden).\n\nThe maximum unemployment benefit is (as of July 2016) SEK 980 per day. During the first 200 days the unemployed will receive 80 percent of his or her normal income during the last 12 months. From day 201-300 this goes down to 70 percent and from day 301-450 the insurance covers 65 percent of the normal income (only available for parents to children under the age of 18). In Sweden tax is paid on unemployment benefits, so the unemployed will get a maximum of about SEK 10,000 per month during the first 100 days (depending on the municipality tax rate). In other currencies, as of June 2017, this means a maximum of approximately £900, $1,150, or €1,000, each month after tax. Private insurance is also available, mainly through professional organisations, to provide income related compensation that otherwise exceeds the ceiling of the scheme. The comprehensive scheme is funded by tax.\n\nSaudi Arabia is an economic welfare state with free medical care and unemployment benefits. However, the country relies not on taxation but mainly oil revenues to maintain the social and economic services to its populace.\n\nPayment:\n2000 SAR (USD $534) for only 12 months for unemployed person from ages 18–35\n\nExternal links\nBy law, legally employed workers, regardless of their citizenship are eligible for unemployment benefits given that they are at least 18 years old, the employees contribute 1% to unemployment funds while the employers contribute 2%, and the workers are eligible to receive benefits after 600 days of contributions within the preceding 3 years of employment. the benefit payment is 50% for the average daily earnings based on the last 4 months and cannot be higher than the mimimum wage (per industry). Benefits may be paid for a max of 1,080 days depending on the number of contributions. some are skeptical of how well the system is functioning in turkey\n\nJSA for a single person is changed annually, and at 3 August 2012 the maximum payable was £71.00 per week for a person aged over 25 and £56.25 per week for a person aged 18–24. The rules for couples where both are unemployed are more complex, but a maximum of £112.55 per week is payable, dependent on age and other factors. Income-based JSA is reduced for people with savings of over £6,000, by a reduction of £1 per week per £250 of savings, up to £16,000. People with savings of over £16,000 are not able to get IB-JSA at all. The British system provides rent payments as part of a separate scheme called Housing Benefit.\n\nUnemployment benefit is commonly referred to as \"the dole\"; to receive the benefit is to be \"on the dole\". \"Dole\" here is an archaic expression meaning \"one's allotted portion\", from the synonymous Old English word \"dāl\".\n\nIn the United States, there are 50 state unemployment insurance programs plus one each in the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico and United States Virgin Islands. Though policies vary by state, unemployment benefits generally pay eligible workers as high as $783.00 per week in the Massachusetts to a low as $235 per week maximum in Mississippi. Benefits are generally paid by state governments, funded in large part by state and federal payroll taxes levied against employers, to workers who have become unemployed through no fault of their own. Eligibility requirements for unemployment insurance vary by state, but generally speaking, employees not fired for misconduct (\"terminated for cause\") are eligible for unemployment benefits, while those fired for misconduct (this sometimes can include misconduct committed outside the workplace, such as a problematic social media post or committing a crime) are not. \n\nIn every state, employees who quit their job without \"good cause\" are not eligible for unemployment benefits, but the definition of good cause varies by state. In some states, being fired for misconduct permanently bars the employee from receiving unemployment benefits, while in others it only disqualifies the employee for a short period. This compensation is classified as a type of social welfare benefit. According to the Internal Revenue Code, these types of benefits are to be included in a taxpayer's gross income.\n\nThe standard time-length of unemployment compensation is six months, although extensions are possible during economic downturns. During the Great Recession, unemployment benefits were extended to 73 weeks.\n\nThe Supreme Court held that federal unemployment law is constitutional and does not violate the Tenth Amendment in \"Steward Machine Company v. Davis\", 301 U.S. 548 (1937).\n\nUnemployment insurance is a federal-state program financed through federal and state payroll taxes (federal and state UI taxes). In most states employers pay state and federal unemployment taxes if:\n\nTo facilitate this program, the U.S. Congress passed the Federal Unemployment Tax Act (FUTA), which authorizes the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) to collect an annual federal employer tax used to fund state workforce agencies. FUTA covers the costs of administering the Unemployment Insurance and Job Service programs in all states. In addition, FUTA pays one-half of the cost of extended unemployment benefits which are triggered in periods of high state unemployment. FUTA also provides a fund from which states UI funds may borrow to pay benefits. As originally established, the states paid the federal government.\n\nThe FUTA tax rate was originally three percent of taxable wages collected from employers who employed at least four employees, and employers could deduct up to 90 percent of the amount due if they paid taxes to a state to support a system of unemployment insurance which met Federal standards, but the rules have recently changed. The FUTA tax rate is now, as of 30 June 2011, 6.0 percent of taxable wages of employees who meet both the above and following criteria, and the taxable wage base is the first $7,000 paid in wages to each employee during a calendar year. Employers who pay the state unemployment tax on time receive an offset credit of up to 5.4 percent regardless of the rate of tax they pay their state. Therefore, the net FUTA tax rate is generally 0.6 percent (6.0 percent - 5.4 percent), for a maximum FUTA tax of $42.00 per employee, per year (.006 X $7,000 = $42.00). State law determines individual state unemployment insurance tax rates. In the United States, unemployment insurance tax rates use experience rating.\n\nAlthough the taxable wage base for each state/territory is at least $7,000 as mandated by FUTA, only four states or territories still remain at this minimum. These states/territories include Arizona, California, Florida, and Puerto Rico. Florida and Puerto Rico maintain tax rates similar to those of other states, but Arizona and California both have a higher maximum tax rate. Florida's minimum tax rate is 0.1% and the state maximum is 5.4% and in Puerto Rico, employers are taxed between 2.4% and 5.4% depending on their experience rating. As of 2015, Arizona's minimum was 0.03%, but its maximum was 7.79%. California's tax rate on the taxable wage base is currently higher than the federal minimum of 6.0%. Employers are currently on a tax schedule that requires them to pay a minimum of 1.5% and a maximum 6.2% of the taxable wage base. Even with the federal tax credit of 5.4%, Arizona employers could end up paying $175 per employee ((.0779-.054) x $7,000) and California employers could pay $56 per employee ((.062-.054) x $7,000) versus the FUTA maximum of $42.\n\nWithin the above constraints, the individual states and territories raise their own contributions and run their own programs. The federal government sets broad guidelines for coverage and eligibility, but states vary in how they determine benefits and eligibility.\n\nFederal rules are drawn by the United States Department of Labor, Employment and Training Administration. For most states, the maximum period for receiving benefits is 26 weeks. There is an extended benefit program (authorized through the Social Security Acts) that may be triggered by the state unemployment rate. Congress has often passed temporary programs to extend benefits during recessions. This was done with the Temporary Extended Unemployment Compensation (TEUC) program in 2002-2003, which has since expired, and remained in force through 2 June 2010, with the Extended Unemployment Compensation 2008 legislation. In July 2010, legislation that provides an extension of federal extended unemployment benefits through November 2010 was signed by the president. The legislation extended benefits for 2.3 million unemployed workers who had exhausted their unemployment benefits.\n\nThe federal government lends money to the states for unemployment insurance when states run short of funds which happens when the state's UI fund cannot cover the cost of current benefits. A high unemployment rate shrinks UI tax revenues and increases expenditures on benefits. State UI finances and the need for loans are exacerbated when a state cuts taxes and increases benefits. FUTA loans to state funds are repaid with interest.\n\nCongressional actions to increase penalties for states incurring large debts for unemployment benefits led to state fiscal crises in the 1980s.\n\nOne interesting feature of the UI tax is that it targets firms that have recently had layoffs, potentially hitting distressed firms. Recent work shows that UI tax increases significantly reduce hiring and employment in affected firms, potentially eroding the macroeconomics stabilizing influence of the UI program. \n\nTo Keynesians, unemployment insurance acts as an automatic stabilizer. Benefits automatically increase when unemployment is high and fall when unemployment is low, smoothing the business cycle; however, others claim that the taxation necessary to support this system serves to decrease employment.\n\nIn order to receive benefits, a person must have worked for at least one quarter in the previous year and have been laid-off by an employer. Workers who were temporary or were paid under the table are not eligible for unemployment insurance. If a worker quits without good cause or is fired for misconduct, then they are normally not eligible for UI benefits. There are five common reasons a claim for unemployment benefits are denied: the worker is unavailable for work, the worker quit his or her job without good cause, the worker was fired for misconduct, refusing suitable work, and unemployment resulting from a labor dispute. In practice, it is only practical to verify whether the worker quit or was fired. If the worker's claim is denied, then they have the right to appeal. If the worker was fired for misconduct, then the employer has the burden to prove that the termination of employment is a misconduct defined by individual states laws. However, if the employee quit their job, then they must prove that their voluntary separation must be good cause.\n\nGenerally, the worker must be unemployed through no fault of his/her own although workers often file for benefits they are not entitled to; when the employer demonstrates that the unemployed person quit or was fired for cause the worker is required to pay back the benefits they received. The unemployed person must also meet state requirements for wages earned or time worked during an established period of time (referred to as a “base period”) to be eligible for benefits. In most states, the base period is usually the first four out of the last five completed calendar quarters prior to the time that the claim is filed. Unemployment benefits are based on reported covered quarterly earnings. The amount of earnings and the number of quarters worked are used to determine the length and value of the unemployment benefit. The average weekly in 2010 payment was $293.\n\nAs a result of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act passed in February 2009, many unemployed people receive up to 99 weeks of unemployment benefits; this may depend on State legislation. Before the passage of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, the maximum number of weeks allowed was 26.\n\nIt generally takes two weeks for benefit payments to begin, the first being a \"waiting week\", which is not reimbursed, and the second being the time lag between eligibility for the program and the first benefit actually being paid.\n\nTo begin a claim, the unemployed worker must apply for benefits through a state unemployment agency. In certain instances, the employer initiates the process. Generally, the certification includes the affected person affirming that they are \"able and available for work\", the amount of any part-time earnings they may have had, and whether they are actively seeking work. These certifications are usually accomplished either over the Internet or via an interactive voice response telephone call, but in a few states may be by mail. After receiving an application, the state will notify the individual if they qualify and the rate they will receive every week. The state will also review the reason for separation from employment. Many states require the individual to periodically certify that the conditions of the benefits are still met.\n\nIf a worker's reason for separation from their last job is due to some reason other than a \"lack of work,\" a determination will be made about whether they are eligible for benefits. Generally, all determinations of eligibility for benefits are made by the appropriate State under its law or applicable federal laws. If a worker is disqualified or denied benefits, they have the right to file an appeal within an established time-frame. The State will advise a worker of his or her appeal rights. An employer may also appeal a determination if they do not agree with the State's determination regarding the employee's eligibility. If the worker's claim is denied, then they have the right to appeal. If the worker was fired for misconduct, then the employer has the burden to prove substantially that the termination of employment is a misconduct defined by individual states laws. However, if the employee quit their job, then they must prove that their voluntary separation must be good cause. Success rate of unemployment appeals is two-thirds, or 67% of the time for the most claimants. In the State of Oklahoma, claimants generally win 51.5% of the time in misconduct cases.\n\nEach Thursday, the Department of Labor issues the \"Unemployment Insurance Weekly Claims Report\". Its headline number is the seasonally adjusted estimate for the initial claims for unemployment for the previous week in the United States. This statistic, because it is published weekly, is depended on as a current indicator of the labor market and the economy generally.\n\nIn 2016, the number of people on unemployment benefits fell to around 1.74 the lowest in the last 4 decades.\nTwice a year, the Office of Management and Budget delivers an economic assessment of the unemployment insurance program as it relates to budgetary issues. As it relates to the FY 2012 budget, the OMB reports that the insured unemployment rate (IUR) is projected to average 3.6% in both FY 2011 and in FY 2012. State unemployment regular benefit outlays are estimated at $61 billion in FY 2011 and $64.3 billion in FY 2012, down somewhat from Midsession estimates. Outlays from state trust fund accounts are projected to exceed revenues and interest income by $16.0 billion in FY 2011 and $15.1 billion in FY 2012. State trust fund account balances, net of loans, are projected to continue to fall, from -$27.4 billion at the end of FY 2010 to -$62.7 billion at the end of FY 2013, before starting to grow again. \n\nNet balances are not projected to become positive again until well beyond FY 2016. Up to 40 states are projected to continue borrowing heavily from the Federal Unemployment Account (FUA) over the next few years. The aggregate loan balance is projected to increase from $40.2 billion at the end of FY 2010 to a peak end-of-year balance of $68.3 billion in FY 2013. Due to the high volume of state loans and increased EB payments, FUA and EUCA are projected to borrow $26.7 billion from the general fund in FY 2011 and an additional $19.4 billion in FY 2012, with neither account projected to return to a net positive balance before 2016. The general fund advances must be repaid with interest.\n\nThe economic argument for unemployment insurance comes from the principle of adverse selection. One common criticism of unemployment insurance is that it induces moral hazard, the fact that unemployment insurance lowers on-the-job effort and reduces job-search effort.\n\nAdverse selection refers to the fact that “workers who have the highest probability of becoming unemployed have the highest demand for unemployment insurance.” Adverse selection causes profit maximizing private insurance agencies to set high premiums for the insurance because there is a high likelihood they will have to make payments to the policyholder. High premiums work to exclude many individuals who otherwise might purchase the insurance. “A compulsory government program avoids the adverse selection problem. Hence, government provision of UI has the potential to increase efficiency. However, government provision does not eliminate moral hazard.”\n\n“At the same time, those workers who managed to obtain insurance might experience more unemployment otherwise would have been the case.” The private insurance company would have to determine whether the employee is unemployed through no fault of their own, which is difficult to determine. Incorrect determinations could result in the payout of significant amounts for fraudulent claims or alternately failure to pay legitimate claims. This leads to the rationale that if government could solve either problem that government intervention would increase efficiency.\n\nIn the Great Recession, the “moral hazard” issue of whether unemployment insurance—and specifically extending benefits past the maximum 99 weeks—significantly encourages unemployment by discouraging workers from finding and taking jobs was expressed by Republican legislators. Conservative economist Robert Barro found that benefits raised the unemployment rate 2%. Disagreeing with Barro's study were Berkeley economist Jesse Rothstein, who found the “vast majority” of unemployment was due to “demand shocks” not “[unemployment insurance]-induced supply reductions.” A study by Rothstein of extensions of unemployment insurance to 99 weeks during the Great Recession to test the hypothesis that unemployment insurance discourages people from seeking jobs found the overall effect of UI on unemployment was to raise it by no more than one-tenth of one percent.\n\nA November 2011 report by the Congressional Budget Office found that even if unemployment benefits convince some unemployed to ignore job openings, these openings were quickly filled by new entrants into the labor market. A survey of studies on unemployment insurance's effect on employment by the Political Economy Research Institute found that unemployed who collected benefits did not find themselves out of work longer than those who \"didn’t\" have unemployment benefits; and that unemployed workers did not search for work more or reduce their wage expectations once their benefits ran out.\n\nOne concern over unemployment insurance increasing unemployment is based on experience rating benefit uses which can sometimes be imperfect. That is, the cost to the employer in increased taxes is less than the benefits that would be paid to the employee upon layoff. The firm in this instance believes that it is more cost effective to lay off the employee, causing more unemployment than under perfect experience rating.\n\nAn alternative rationale for unemployment insurance is that it may allow for improving the quality of matches between workers and firms. Marimon and Zilibotti argued that although a more generous unemployment benefit system may indeed increase the unemployment rate, it may also help improve the average match quality. A similar point is made by Mazur who analyzed the welfare and inequality effects of a policy reform giving entitlement for unemployment insurance to quitters. Arash Nekoei and Andrea Weber present empirical evidence from Austria that extending unemployment benefit duration raises wages by improving reemployment firm quality. Similarly, Tatsiramos studied data from European countries and found that although unemployment insurance does increase unemployment duration, the duration of subsequent employment tends to be longer (suggesting better match quality).\n\nAn alternative to unemployment insurance intended to reduce the moral hazard costs would introduce mandated individual saving accounts for workers to draw on after being laid off. The plan, by Martin Feldstein would pay any positive account balance at retirement to the employee.\n\nAnother issue with unemployment insurance relates to its effects on state budgets. During recessionary time periods, the number of unemployed rises and they begin to draw benefits from the program. The longer the recession lasts, depending on the state's starting UI program balance, the quicker the state begins to run out of funds. The recession that began in December 2007 and ended in June 2009 has significantly impacted state budgets. According to The Council of State Governments, by 18 March 2011, 32 states plus the Virgin Islands had borrowed nearly $45.7 billion. The Labor Department estimates by the fourth quarter of 2013, as many as 40 states may need to borrow more than $90 billion to fund their unemployment programs and it will take a decade or more to pay off the debt.\n\nPossible policy options for states to shore up the unemployment insurance funds include lowering benefits for recipients and/or raising taxes on businesses. Kentucky took the approach of raising taxes and lowering benefits to attempt to balance its unemployment insurance program. Starting in 2010, a claimant's weekly benefits will decrease from 68% to 62% and the taxable wage base will increase from $8,000 to $12,000, over a ten-year period. These moves are estimated to save the state over $450 million.\n\nThe argument for taxation of social welfare benefits is that they result in a realized gain for a taxpayer. The argument against taxation is that the benefits are generally less than the federal poverty level.\n\nUnemployment compensation has been taxable by the federal government since 1987. Code Section 85 deemed unemployment compensation included in gross income. Federal taxes are not withheld from unemployment compensation at the time of payment unless requested by the recipient using Form W-4V.\nIn 2003, Rep. Philip English introduced legislation to repeal the taxation of unemployment compensation, but the legislation did not advance past committee. Most states with income tax consider unemployment compensation to be taxable.\nPrior to 1987, unemployment compensation amounts were excluded from federal gross income.\nFor the US Federal tax year of 2009, as a result of the signing of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 signed by Barack Obama on 17 February 2009 the first $2,400 worth of unemployment income received during the 'tax year' of 2009 will be exempted from being considered as taxable income on the Federal level, when American taxpayers file their 2009 IRS tax return paperwork in early 2010.\n\nJob sharing or work sharing and short time or short-time working refer to situations or systems in which employees agree to or are forced to accept a reduction in working time and pay. These can be based on individual agreements or on government programs in many countries that try to prevent unemployment. In these, employers have the option of reducing work hours to part-time for many employees instead of laying off some of them and retaining only full-time workers. For example, employees in 18 states of the United States can then receive unemployment payments for the hours they are no longer working.\n\nIn 2013, it was reported that most U.S. states deliver unemployment benefits to recipients who do not have a bank account through a prepaid debit card. The federal government uses the Direct Express Debit Mastercard prepaid debit card offered by Mastercard and Comerica Bank to give some federal assistance payments to people who do not have bank accounts. Many states have similar programs for unemployment payments and other assistance.\n\nInternational Labour Organization has adopted the Employment Promotion and Protection against Unemployment Convention, 1988 for promotion of employment against unemployment and social security including unemployment benefit.\n\n\n\n"}
