{"id": "24899791", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24899791", "title": "10th International Architecture Exhibition", "text": "10th International Architecture Exhibition\n\nThe 10th International Architecture Exhibition at the 2006 Venice Biennale of Architecture, \"Cities, architecture and society\", lasted from September 10 to November 19 and was directed by Richard Burdett. The collateral section City-Port was held in Palermo until January 14, 2007. The exhibition attracted over 130,000 visitors.\n\nThe awards went to:\n\n\"After the Flood: Building on Higher Ground:\" Architectural responses to the August 2005 devastation in New Orleans and the Gulf Coast wrought by Hurricane Katrina. Curated by Christian Ditlev Bruun. Projects by Anderson+Anderson Architects and Eight Inc. were among the included projects. Photography for the exhibition by Michael Goodman. Graphic Design by Paula Kelly Design NYC. The exhibition traveled to Bangkok (2007), Panama City (2007), and Los Angeles (2008). The exhibition also marked the beginning of the international symposium series Sustainable Dialogues, which connected architects, city planners, and environmentalist from Southeast Asia, Central and South America with American architects in each region to exchange ideas and knowledge and propose solutions to issues of ecological disasters, global climate change, and sustainable architectural strategies. Collaborators included Global Green and Make it Right (founded by Brad Pitt).\n"}
{"id": "28668001", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28668001", "title": "2010 Iceland power outages", "text": "2010 Iceland power outages\n\nThe Iceland Power outages 2010 was a massive, widespread power outage that occurred nationwide in Iceland, on Wednesday, September 1, 2010, at approximately 21:00 UTC. At the time, it was one of the most widespread electrical outages in Icelandic history. The three largest aluminium smelters in Iceland were hit by the outage, leaving Century Aluminum Grundartangi and Rio Tinto Alcan Straumsvík totally off-grid. The third aluminium smelter, Alcoa Fjarðarál, was forced to reduce its operations to a bare minimum. Hot water became immediately scarce in some of the neighborhoods in Reykjavík, the capital.\n\n"}
{"id": "52268540", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52268540", "title": "2017 Women's March", "text": "2017 Women's March\n\nThe Women's March was a worldwide protest on January 21, 2017, the day after the inauguration of President Donald Trump. Tensions rose due to statements made by Donald Trump, considered by many as anti-women or otherwise offensive. It was the largest single-day protest in U.S. history. The goal of the annual marches is to advocate legislation and policies regarding human rights and other issues, including Israeli/American rights, women's rights, immigration reform, healthcare reform, reproductive rights, the environment, LGBTQ rights, racial equality, freedom of religion, workers' rights and tolerance. According to organizers, the goal was to \"send a bold message to our new administration on their first day in office, and to the world that women's rights are human rights\".\n\nThe main protest was in Washington, D.C., and is known as the Women's March on Washington with many other marches taking place worldwide. The Washington March was streamed live on YouTube, Facebook, and Twitter. The Washington March drew 500,000 to 1 million people. Between 3,267,134 and 5,246,670 people participated in the marches in the U.S., approximately 1.0 to 1.6 percent of the U.S. population. Worldwide participation has been estimated at over seven million. At least 408 marches were reported to have been planned in the U.S. and 168 in 81 other countries. After the marches, organizers reported that around 673 marches took place worldwide, on all seven continents, 29 in Canada, 20 in Mexico, and 1 in Antarctica. The crowds were peaceful, no arrests were made in D.C., Chicago, Los Angeles, New York City, or Seattle, where a combined total of about two million people marched. The organization's website states that they wanted to adhere to \"the nonviolent ideology of the Civil Rights movement.\" Following the march, the organizers of the Women's March on Washington posted the \"10 Actions for the first 100 Days\" campaign for joint activism to keep up momentum from the march.\n\nOn November 9, 2016, the day after Donald Trump was elected President of the United States, in reaction to Trump's election campaign and political views, and his defeat of female presidential nominee Hillary Clinton, Teresa Shook of Hawaii created a Facebook event and invited friends to march on Washington in protest. Similar Facebook pages created by Evvie Harmon, Fontaine Pearson, Bob Bland (a New York fashion designer), Breanne Butler, and others quickly led to thousands of women signing up to march. Harmon, Pearson, and Butler decided to unite their efforts and consolidate their pages, beginning the official Women's March on Washington. To ensure that the march was led by women of differing races and backgrounds, Vanessa Wruble, co-founder, and co-president of Okayafrica, served as Head of Campaign Operations and brought on Tamika D. Mallory, Carmen Perez and Linda Sarsour to serve as National Co-Chairs alongside Bland. Former Miss New Jersey USA Janaye Ingram served as Head of Logistics. Filmmaker Paola Mendoza served as Artistic Director and a National Organizer.\n\nAccording to \"The New York Times\", opposition to and defiance of Trump infused the protests, which were sometimes directly called anti-Trump protests. Organizers stated that they were \"not targeting Trump specifically\" and that the event was \"more about being proactive about women's rights\". Sarsour called it \"a stand on social justice and human rights issues ranging from race, ethnicity, gender, religion, immigration and healthcare\". Wruble stated that \"it's about feminism […] But it's about more than that: It's about basic equality for all people.\"\n\nPlanned Parenthood partnered with the march by providing staff and offering knowledge related to planning a large-scale event. Planned Parenthood president Cecile Richards said that the march would \"send a strong message to the incoming administration that millions of people across this country are prepared to fight attacks on reproductive healthcare, abortion services and access to Planned Parenthood, [which] hopes that [in the future] many of the protesters will mobilize in its defense when Trump and congressional Republicans make their attempt to strip the organization of millions in federal funding\". The national organizing director stressed the importance of continuing action at a local level and remaining active after the event.\n\nVanessa Wruble, co-founder, brought on Tamika D. Mallory, Carmen Perez and Linda Sarsour to serve as National Co-Chairs alongside Bob Bland. The four co-chairs were Linda Sarsour, the executive director of the Arab American Association of New York; Tamika Mallory, a political organizer and former executive director of the National Action Network; Carmen Perez, an executive director of the political action group The Gathering for Justice; and Bob Bland, a fashion designer who focuses on ethical manufacturing. Gloria Steinem, Harry Belafonte, LaDonna Harris, Angela Davis and Dolores Huerta served as honorary co-chairs.\n\nSeven women coordinated marches outside the U.S. The women were: Brit-Agnes Svaeri, Oslo, Norway; Marissa McTasney, Toronto, Canada; Karen Olson, Geneva, Switzerland; Kerry Haggerty, London, United Kingdom; Rebecca Turnbow, Sydney, Australia; and Breanne Butler and Evvie Harmon in the United States. The women organized the international marches through social media and had weekly Skype meetings to plot strategy.\n\nOn January 12, the march organizers released a policy platform addressing reproductive rights, immigration reform, healthcare reform, religious discrimination (primarily that against Muslim Americans), LGBTQ rights, gender and racial inequities (primarily those that favor men and Non-Hispanic whites, respectively), workers' rights, and other issues. \"Build bridges, not walls\" (a reference to Trump's proposals for a border wall) became popular worldwide after the Trump's inaugural address, and was a common refrain throughout the march.\n\nThe organizers also addressed environmental issues: \"We believe that every person and every community in our nation has the right to clean water, clean air, and access to and enjoyment of public lands. We believe that our environment and our climate must be protected and that our land and natural resources cannot be exploited for corporate gain or greed—especially at the risk of public safety and health.\"\n\nWruble renamed the event, which had originally been billed as the \"Million Women March\", after the March on Washington for Jobs and Freedom, the historic civil rights rally on the Mall where Martin Luther King Jr. delivered his \"I Have a Dream\" speech. The rally also paid tribute to the 1997 Million Woman March in Philadelphia, in which hundreds of thousands of African American women are said to have participated.\n\nBecause of scheduling conflicts at the Lincoln Memorial, a permit was secured on December 9 to start the march on Independence Avenue at the southwest corner of the Capitol building and continue along the National Mall.\n\nBy January 20, 2017, 222,000 people had RSVP'd as going to the Washington, D.C., march and 251,000 had indicated interest. On January 16, 2017, Fox News reported that authorities were expecting \"a crowd of almost 500,000 people\", and the permit for the march issued by the National Park Service was revised by the head of D.C.'s Homeland Security department to half a million people—significantly more than the estimated attendance at President Donald Trump's inauguration ceremony the previous day.\n\nIn late December, organizers announced that over 100 organizations would provide assistance during the march and support the event across their social media platforms. By January 18, more than 400 organizations were listed as \"partners\" on the March's official website.\n\nPlanned Parenthood (which has received federal funding since 1970, when President Richard Nixon signed into law the Family Planning Services and Population Research Act) and the Natural Resources Defense Council were listed as the two \"premier partners\". Other organizations listed as partners included the AFL–CIO, Amnesty International USA, the Mothers of the Movement, the National Center for Lesbian Rights, the National Organization for Women, MoveOn.org, Human Rights Watch, Code Pink, Black Girls Rock!, the NAACP, the American Indian Movement, Emily's List, Oxfam, Greenpeace USA, and the League of Women Voters.\n\nOn January 13, event organizers granted the anti-abortion feminist group New Wave Feminists partnership status. But after the organization's involvement was publicized in \"The Atlantic\", it was removed from the partners page on the march's website. Other anti-abortion groups that had been granted partnership status, including Abby Johnson's And Then There Were None (ATTWN) and Stanton Healthcare, were subsequently unlisted as partners as well. New Wave Feminists and Johnson still participated in the official march, alongside other anti-abortion groups such as ATTWN, Students for Life of America, and \"Life Matters Journal\".\n\nSpeaking on January 20, Naomi Klein said, \"it is significant that it seems that Donald Trump is going after programs for violence against women.\" She stated she believes that it is important for people to demonstrate their concern about the new administration's \"drive to denigrate women.\" She also said that it was important that the women who organized the march included a large number of women of color.\n\nWhile organizers had originally expected over 200,000 people, the march ended up drawing between 440,000 to 500,000 in Washington D.C. The Washington Metro system had its second-busiest day ever with over a million trips taken, considerably larger than the inauguration day's ridership and second only to the first inauguration of Barack Obama. \"The New York Times\" reported that crowd-scientists estimate that the Women's March was three times the size of the Trump inauguration, which they estimate at 160,000 attendees. However, \"The Washington Post\" and \"The New York Times\" have stated that it is difficult to accurately calculate crowd size and other estimates of the Trump inauguration range from 250,000 to 600,000 people.\n\nAn estimated 3,300,000 – 4,600,000 people participated in the United States and up to 5 million did worldwide.\n\nThe large crowds enabled Washington's Subway to break 1,000,000 passengers for only the second time in its history. The 1,001,613 trips are the second busiest day, the highest counted total (as the highest, from Obama's First Inauguration is only an estimate) and the highest single-day ridership for a weekend day breaking the previous record of 825,437 trips set during the Rally to Restore Sanity and/or Fear.\n\nThe official list of speakers included Gloria Steinem,\nAmerica Ferrera and Scarlett Johansson. Other speakers were Sophie Cruz, Angela Davis, and Michael Moore, as well as Cecile Richards, Ilyasah Shabazz, Janet Mock, LaDonna Harris, Janelle Monáe, Maryum Ali, Rabbi Sharon Brous, Sister Simone Campbell, Ashley Judd, Melissa Harris-Perry, Randi Weingarten, Van Jones, Kristin Rowe-Finkbeiner, Roslyn Brock, Muriel Bowser, Tammy Duckworth, Kamala Harris, Donna Hylton, Ai-jen Poo, and Raquel Willis.\n\nSteinem commented \"Our constitution does not begin with 'I, the President.' It begins with, 'We, the People.' I am proud to be one of thousands who have come to Washington to make clear that we will keep working for a democracy in which we are linked as human beings, not ranked by race or gender or class or any other label.\"\n\nFerrera stated, \"If we – the millions of Americans who believe in common decency, in the greater good, in justice for all – if we fall into the trap by separating ourselves by our causes and our labels, then we will weaken our fight and we will lose. But if we commit to what aligns us, if we stand together steadfast and determined, then we stand a chance of saving the soul of our country.\"\n\nJohansson called for long-term change: \"Once the heaviness [of the election] began to subside, an opportunity has presented itself to make real long-term change, not just for future Americans, but in the way we view our responsibility to get involved with and stay active in our communities. Let this weight not drag you down, but help to get your heels stuck in.\"\n\nThe youngest presenter at the Washington D.C. march, 6-year-old Sophie Cruz, said, \"Let us fight with love, faith, and courage so that our families will not be destroyed,\" and ended her speech saying, \"I also want to tell the children not to be afraid, because we are not alone. There are still many people that have their hearts filled with love. Let's keep together and fight for the rights. God is with us.\" Cruz repeated her speech in Spanish.\n\nAlicia Keys performed at the rally saying, \"We are mothers. We are caregivers. We are artists. We are activists. We are entrepreneurs, doctors, leaders of industry and technology. Our potential is unlimited. We rise.\" Angela Davis said, \"We recognize that we are collective agents of history and that history cannot be deleted like web pages.\" Maryum Ali also spoke, saying, \"Don't get frustrated, get involved. Don't complain, organize.\"\n\nAcross the United States, there were a total of 408 planned marches.\n\nMarches occurred worldwide, with 198 in 84 other countries. Organisers of the event reported 673 marches worldwide, including 20 in Mexico and 29 in Canada. Women in India also organized a nationwide march on January 21, 2017 called I Will Go Out to demand access to safe public spaces. It was held in small countries such as Belgium, Costa Rica, Latvia. The movement also took place in countries in Africa, including Kenya, Nigeria, and Tanzania all held marches calling for women to have equal rights, and specifically demanding an end to violence against women.\n\nU.S. Senator Cory Booker, former U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry, and civil rights activist Jesse Jackson attended the Washington march. Anne-Marie Slaughter, president of New America and former Director of Policy Planning at the U.S. State Department, attended the New York City march. John Lewis attended the Atlanta rally, which saw more than 60,000 march to the Georgia State Capitol.\n\nSenator Bernie Sanders of Vermont delivered a speech at the march in Montpelier in front of the Vermont State House, as did other Vermont political figures, such as former Governor Madeleine Kunin and current Lieutenant Governor David Zuckerman.\n\nJacinda Ardern, Prime Minister of New Zealand since October 2017, gave a speech after marching in Auckland; New Zealand was chronologically the first country in the world to participate in the march.\n\nCelebrities who participated in marches across the United States or around the world included:\nThe Pussyhat Project was a nationwide effort initiated by Krista Suh and Jayna Zweiman, a screenwriter and architect located in Los Angeles, to create pink hats to be worn at the march for visual impact. In response to this call, crafters all over the United States began making these hats using patterns provided on the project website for use with either a knitting method, crocheting and even sewing with fabrics. The project's goal was to have one million hats handed out at the Washington March. The hats are made using pink yarns or fabrics and were originally designed to be a positive form of protest for Trump's inauguration by Krista Suh. Suh, from Los Angeles, wanted a hat for the cooler climate in Washington, D. C. and made herself a hat for the protest, realizing the potential: \"we could all wear them, make a unified statement\". One of the project founders, Jayna Zweiman, stated \"I think it's resonating a lot because we're really saying that no matter who you are or where you are, you can be politically active.\" Suh and Zwieman worked with Kat Coyle, the owner of a local knitting supply shop called The Little Knittery, to come up with the original design. The project launched in November 2016 and quickly became popular on social media with over 100,000 downloads of the pattern to make the hat.\n\nThe name refers to the resemblance of the top corners of the hats to cat ears and attempts to reclaim the derogatory term \"pussy\", a play on Trump's widely reported 2005 remarks that women would let him \"grab them by the pussy\". Many of the hats worn by marchers in Washington, D.C., were created by crafters who were unable to attend and wished them to be worn by those who could, to represent their presence. Those hats optionally contained notes from the crafters to the wearers, expressing support. They were distributed by the crafters themselves, by yarn stores at the points of origin, carried to the event by marchers, and also distributed at the destination. The production of the hats caused reported shortages of pink knitting yarn across the United States. On the day of the march, NPR compared the hats to the \"Make America Great Again\" hats worn by Trump supporters, in that both represented groups that had at one point been politically marginalized; both sent \"simultaneously unifying and antagonistic\" messages; and both were simple in their messages. Pussyhats were featured months later on the fashion runway.\n\nIn Richmond, Virginia, attendees of the March on Washington participated in an \"Art of Activism\" series of workshops at Studio Two Three, a printmaking studio for artists in Scott's Addition.\n\nIn Los Angeles, actor Amir Talai was carrying the sign \"I'll see you nice white ladies at the next #blacklivesmatter march right?\" to express frustration at the lack of participation by white Americans in the Black Lives Matter movement, and simultaneously hopeful of encouraging them to do so. The photo of Talai with the sign went viral over the internet.\n\nWhile the march aims to create a social movement, Marcia Chatelain of Georgetown University's Center for Social Justice commented that its success will depend on the marchers' ability to maintain momentum in the following weeks. \"One of the goals of any type of march or any type of visible sign of solidarity is to get inspired, to inspire people to do more. And the question is, at the march, what kind of organizational structures or movements will also be present to help people know how to channel their energy for the next day and for the long haul?\" Historian Michael Kazin also commented on the importance of a long-term strategy: \"All successful movements in American history have both inside and outside strategy. If you're just protesting, and it just stops there, you're not going to get anything done.\"\n\nIn the aftermath of the protest, museum curators around the world sought to gather signs and other cultural artifacts of the marches.\n\nMany members of the U.S. House of Representatives announced that they would not attend Trump's inauguration ceremony, with the numbers growing after he made disparaging remarks about veteran House member and civil rights leader John Lewis. Some of them said they would attend the Women's March.\n\nMaine Representative Chellie Pingree said she would instead visit a Planned Parenthood center and a business owned by immigrants on Inauguration Day before going to Washington to appear on stage with other politicians who refused to attend. \"We need to do everything we can to let the incoming administration know we are not happy about their agenda. I've had unprecedented numbers of my constituents calling me worried about healthcare, the environment, public education, and they feel disrespected,\" she said.\n\nOn January 22, 2017, Trump wrote on his personal Twitter account: \"Watched protests yesterday but was under the impression that we just had an election! Why didn't these people vote? Celebs hurt cause badly.\" Two hours later, he sent a more placatory tweet: \"Peaceful protests are a hallmark of our democracy. Even if I don't always agree, I recognize the rights of people to express their views.\" A White House official criticized the March for not welcoming abortion rights opponents, and then criticized Madonna's comment that she \"thought an awful lot about blowing up the White House\".\n\nSenator Bernie Sanders, who attended the March in Montpelier, Vermont, said Trump should listen to the protesters: \"Listen to the needs of women. Listen to the needs of the immigrant community. Listen to the needs of workers. Listen to what's going on with regards to climate change ... Modify your positions. Let's work together to try to save this planet and protect the middle class.\"\n\nHillary Clinton, the 2016 Democratic presidential candidate, offered her support on Twitter, calling the march \"awe-inspiring\" and stated \"[I] hope it brought joy to others as it did to me\".\n\nFollowing a tweet that offended other lawmakers and the public, Bill Kintner resigned from his position as Nebraska State Senator.\n\nJohn Carmen, a Republican official in South Jersey mocked the Women's March, asking if the protest would \"be over in time for them to cook dinner.\" He lost the next election on November 7, 2017, against a political newcomer, Ashley Bennett.\n\nThe Friedrich Ebert Foundation, which is associated with the Social Democratic Party of Germany, had planned to give their human rights award to the 2017 Women's March. After a German Jewish organization, however, protested in an open letter, accusing the organizers of antisemitic statements and ties to antisemites, the foundation put the award on ice.\n\nApart from the celebrities present at the march, others such as Beyoncé and Bruce Springsteen made statements of support for it. The latter, who endorsed Hillary Clinton and is a friend to Barack Obama, gave a speech during a concert in Australia, saying, \"The E Street Band is glad to be here in Western Australia. But we're a long way from home, and our hearts and spirits are with the hundreds of thousands of women and men that marched yesterday in every city in America and in Melbourne who rallied against hate and division and in support of tolerance, inclusion, reproductive rights, civil rights, racial justice, LGBTQ rights, the environment, wage equality, gender equality, healthcare, and immigrant rights. We stand with you. We are the new American resistance.\"\n\nCyndi Lauper commented on Madonna's controversial speech at the Washington march, saying, \"Anger is not better than clarity and humanity. That is what opens people's minds. When you want to change people's mind, you have to share your real story.\"\n\nJon Voight called the march \"destructive\" and said it was \"against the president and against the government\". He was particularly critical of Shia LaBeouf and march participant Miley Cyrus, saying \"they have a lot of followers\" and felt their stances were \"teaching treason\".\n\nPiers Morgan, a friend of Trump's, stated the march was a reaction by women that \"a man won\" and that \"At its core, it was about Trump-hating and resentment that he won and Hillary lost\". He also felt that it was democratic to protest, but not due to the result of a democratic election. In response to Morgan's comments about the march, Ewan McGregor canceled his appearance on \"Good Morning Britain\", which Morgan was hosting.\n\nFollowing the march, the organizers of the Women's March on Washington posted the \"10 Actions for the first 100 Days\" campaign to keep up the momentum from the march. The first action included contacting senators about concerns, with an option of using \"Hear Our Voice\" postcards. A new action was provided every 10 days.\n\nFilmmaker Michael Moore called for 100 days of resistance, for Trump's first 100 days of his presidency.\n\nIn July 2017, the Women's March official Twitter feed celebrated the birthday of Assata Shakur, an African-American revolutionary who was convicted of murder, leading to criticism from conservative media outlets. In an August 1, 2017, editorial, Bari Weiss criticized three co-chairs for their association with Louis Farrakhan, and for failing to reject anti-Semitism. In a reply letter, co-Chair Bob Bland dismissed critics as \"apologists for the status quo, racist ideology and the white nationalist patriarchy.\"\n\nIn October 2017, leaders of the decentralized Women's Marches across the country formed a new organization, March On, and launched a Super PAC called March On's Fight Back PAC. Led by Vanessa Wruble, one of the co-founders and chief architects of the Women's March On Washington, March On announced the goal of creating political change through their \"March On the Polls\" campaign, including marching people to voting booths for the November 2018 midterms for a \"March On the Midterms\". \"March On aims to coordinate actions at the federal, state, and local level.\n\nOn January 21, 2018, a second Women's March was held, taking place in cities around the world.\n\nThe 2017 Women's Marches took place in many cities around the world since January 21, 2017.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15114980", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15114980", "title": "After Jimmy", "text": "After Jimmy\n\nAfter Jimmy is a 1996 American made-for-television drama film based on a true story starring Meredith Baxter as a woman, with her family, mourning the suicide death of her teenage son. As of 2008, the film has not been released on video or DVD.\n\nDepressed eighteen-year-old Jimmy Stapp commits suicide by shooting himself in the head with his father's gun. His family (mother Maggie, father Sam, and two young siblings Billy and Rosie) struggles to deal with life, amid questions of why they didn't see the signs sooner and what could have precipitated suicide. Both parents grieve very differently in the aftermath, which divides them as they search for a way to bring their family back together.\n\n"}
{"id": "21431900", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21431900", "title": "Akher Saa", "text": "Akher Saa\n\nAkher Saa (آخر ساعة in Arabic meaning \"the Last Hour\" in English) is an Arabic-language weekly consumer magazine published in Egypt. The magazine is also described as a photo magazine. It is among the oldest publications in the country. in 1934. It was relaunched by Mustafa Amin and Ali Amin in 1944. Then, it became part of \"Akhbar El Yom\" which is also the publisher of the magazine. \"Akher Saa\" has been owned by the Egyptian government since 1960.\n\nBased in Cairo, the weekly covers social events, women's interests and sports. The magazine, published on Saturdays, also includes political, economic and social news.\n\nMohamed Heikal was the editor-in-chief of \"Akher Saa\" in the 1950s. From 1970 to 1976 Egyptian author Anis Mansour was the editor-in-chief. Ahmed Roshdy Saleh also served as the editor-in-chief of the magazine. As of 2008 Samir Ragab was the editor in chief and chairman of the magazine. On 28 June 2014 Mohamed Abdel Hafez became the editor-in-chief.\n\nFrom 2006 to 2008, Mohamed Abdelbaki served as foreign affairs editor for the magazine.\n\nArmenian-Egyptian cartoonist Saroukhan worked for the magazine from its inception in 1934 to 1946. Rakha, an Egyptian cartoonist, also contributed to the magazine. Graphic arts by Al Hussein Fawzi were also published in the magazine.\n\nThe circulation of the weekly in 2000 was 120,000 copies.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43906857", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43906857", "title": "Al-Mubarqa", "text": "Al-Mubarqa\n\nAbū Ḥarb al-Yamānī or, according to Ya'qubi, Tamīm al-Lak̲h̲mī, better known by his \"laqab\" of al-Mubarqaʿ (\"the Veiled One\"), was the leader of a rebellion against the Abbasid Caliphate in Palestine in 841/42.\n\nAccording to al-Tabari, who preserves the fullest account of the events, the uprising began when a soldier wanted to billet himself in Abu Harb's house during his absence. Abu Harb's wife or sister refused him entry, and the soldier struck her with his whip. When Abu Harb returned and was told what had transpired, he took his sword and killed the soldier. This act made him an outlaw, and Abu Harb fled to the mountains of Jordan. According to al-Tabari, he used a veil (\"burquʿ\") to hide his face so that he would not be recognized, and thus he acquired his sobriquet of \"the Veiled One\". It must be noted, however, that this sobriquet had a history of being used by leaders of revolts in the Islamic world, from al-Aswad in Muhammad's time to al-Muqanna in the 780s and the leader of the Zanj Rebellion, Ali ibn Muhammad, later in the 9th century.\n\nAl-Mubarqa, as he was now known, began to speak out against the injustices of Abbasid rule, and was quickly joined by many peasants. Soon he claimed to be an heir to the Umayyad dynasty, and was proclaimed as the \"Sufyani\", a member from the Sufyanid line of the Umayyad house, who in local prophetc tradition was supposed to arise and deliver Syria, once the heartland of the Umayyad Caliphate, from Abbasid rule. In this guise, the rebellion spread and gained adherents even among the local tribal nobility. According to Ya'qubi, the tribes of 'Amila, Lakhm, Balqayn and Judham participated in the revolt.\n\nCaliph al-Mu'tasim dispatched an army under Raja ibn Ayyub al-Hidari against the rebels. Al-Hidari's forces were considerably outnumbered, and the Abbasid general wisely decided to wait until the harvest season, when perforce the bulk of al-Mubarqa's peasant supporters would disperse to their fields. In the meantime, according to the accounts of Ya'qubi, Ibn al-Athir, and Ibn Khaldun, al-Mu'tasim died, and the new caliph, al-Wathiq, sent al-Hidari against Ibn Bayhas, another rebel around Damascus. Al-Tabari on the other hand places the rebellion and its defeat squarely within the reign of al-Mu'tasim, i.e. before his death on 5 January 842, and records Ibn Bayhas as an adherent of al-Mubarqa. The exact relation between the two uprisings is therefore unclear from the sources. After vanquishing Ibn Bayhas, al-Hidari turned south and confronted al-Mubarqa's forces near Ramlah. The battle was a decisive victory for the government army, with al-Mubarqa taken prisoner and brought to the caliphal capital, Samarra, where he was thrown into prison and never heard of again.\n\n"}
{"id": "18360765", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18360765", "title": "Berlin Crisis of 1961", "text": "Berlin Crisis of 1961\n\nThe Berlin Crisis of 1961 () occurred between 4 June – 9 November 1961, and was the last major politico-military European incident of the Cold War about the occupational status of the German capital city, Berlin, and of post–World War II Germany. The Berlin Crisis started when the USSR launched an ultimatum demanding the withdrawal of all armed forces from Berlin, including the Western armed forces in West Berlin. The crisis culminated in the city's \"de facto\" partition with the East German erection of the Berlin Wall. \n\nThe 22nd Congress of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union—the last to be attended by the Communist Party of China—was held in Moscow during the crisis.\n\nAfter the Soviet occupation of Eastern Europe at the end of World War II, some of those living in the newly acquired areas of the Eastern Bloc aspired to independence and wanted the Soviets to leave. Between 1945 and 1950, over 15 million people emigrated from Soviet-occupied Eastern European countries to the West. Taking advantage of this route, the number of Eastern Europeans applying for political asylum in West Germany was 197,000 in 1950, 165,000 in 1951, 182,000 in 1952 and 331,000 in 1953.\n\nBy the early 1950s, the Soviet approach to controlling national movement, restricting emigration, was emulated by most of the rest of the Eastern Bloc, including East Germany. Up until 1953, the lines between East Germany and the western occupied zones could be easily crossed in most places. Consequently, the Inner German border between the two German states was closed, and a barbed-wire fence erected. In 1955, the Soviets passed a law transferring control over civilian access in Berlin to East Germany, which officially abdicated them for direct responsibility of matters therein, while passing control to a government not recognized in the US-allied West. When large numbers of East Germans then defected under the guise of \"visits\", the new East German state essentially eliminated all travel between the west and east in 1956.\n\nWith the closing of the Inner German border officially in 1952, the border in Berlin remained considerably more accessible than the rest of the border because it was administered by all four occupying powers. Accordingly, Berlin became the main route by which East Germans left for the West. The Berlin sector border was essentially a \"loophole\" through which Eastern Bloc citizens could still escape. The 4.5 million East Germans that had left by 1961 totaled approximately 20% of the entire East German population. The loss was disproportionately heavy among professionals—engineers, technicians, physicians, teachers, lawyers and skilled workers. The brain drain of professionals had become so damaging to the political credibility and economic viability of East Germany that closing this loophole and securing the Soviet-imposed East-West-Berlin frontier was imperative.\n\nIn November 1958, Soviet Premier Nikita Khrushchev issued the Western powers an ultimatum to withdraw from Berlin within six months and make it a free, demilitarised city. Khrushchev declared that, at the end of that period, the Soviet Union would turn over control of all lines of communication with West Berlin to East Germany, meaning the western powers would have access to West Berlin only when East Germany permitted it. In response, the United States, United Kingdom, and France clearly expressed their strong determination to remain in, and maintain their legal right of free access to, West Berlin.\n\nWith tensions mounting, the United States, United Kingdom and France formed a covert group with orders to plan for an eventual response to any aggression on West Berlin. The planning group was named LIVE OAK, and staff from the three countries prepared land and air plans to guarantee access to and from West Berlin. \n\nThe Soviet Union withdrew its deadline in May 1959, and the foreign ministers of the four countries spent three months meeting. They did not come to any major agreements, but this process led to negotiations and to Khrushchev's September 1959 visit to the US, at the end of which he and US President Dwight Eisenhower jointly asserted that general disarmament was of utmost importance and that such issues as that of Berlin \"should be settled, not by the application of force, but by peaceful means through negotiations.\"\n\nEisenhower and Khrushchev had a few days together at the US presidential retreat Camp David, where they talked frankly with each other. \"There was nothing more inadvisable in this situation,\" said Eisenhower, \"than to talk about ultimatums, since both sides knew very well what would happen if an ultimatum were to be implemented.\" Khrushchev responded that he did not understand how a peace treaty could be regarded by the American people as a \"threat to peace\". Eisenhower admitted that the situation in Berlin was \"abnormal\" and that \"human affairs got very badly tangled at times.\" \n\nKhrushchev came away with the impression that a deal was possible over Berlin, and they agreed to continue the dialogue at a summit in Paris in May 1960. However, the Paris Summit that was to resolve the Berlin question was cancelled in the fallout from Gary Powers's failed U-2 spy flight on 1 May 1960.\n\nAt the Vienna summit on 4 June 1961, tensions rose. Meeting with US President John F. Kennedy, Premier Khrushchev reissued the Soviet ultimatum to sign a separate peace treaty with East Germany and thus end the existing four-power agreements guaranteeing American, British, and French rights to access West Berlin and the occupation of East Berlin by Soviet forces. However, this time he did so by issuing a deadline of 31 December 1961. The three powers responded that any unilateral treaty could not affect their responsibilities and rights in West Berlin.\n\nIn the growing confrontation over the status of Berlin, Kennedy undercut his own bargaining position during his Vienna summit negotiations with Khrushchev in June 1961. Kennedy essentially conveyed US acquiescence to the permanent division of Berlin. This made his later, more assertive public statements less credible to the Soviets.\n\nAs the confrontation over Berlin escalated, Kennedy delivered a speech on ABC television in Washington, and broadcast nationwide in the US, where he reiterated that the United States was not looking for a fight and that he recognised the \"Soviet Union's historical concerns about their security in central and eastern Europe.\" He said he was willing to renew talks, but he also announced that he would ask Congress for an additional $3.25 billion for military spending, mostly on conventional weapons. He wanted six new divisions for the Army and two for the Marines, and he announced plans to triple the draft and to call up the reserves. Kennedy proclaimed: \"We seek peace, but we shall not surrender.\"\n\nThe same day, 25 July, Kennedy requested an increase in the Army's strength from 875,000 to approximately 1 million, an increase of 29,000 and 63,000 men in the active duty Navy and Air Force, respectively, and the authority to bring some reserve units into active duty. He also ordered that draft calls be doubled, and asked for additional funds to identify and mark space in existing structures that could be used for fallout shelters, to stock these shelters with essentials for survival, and to improve air-raid warning and fallout detection systems.\n\nVacationing in the Black Sea resort of Sochi, Khrushchev was reported to be angered by Kennedy's speech. John Jay McCloy, Kennedy's disarmament adviser, who happened to be in the Soviet Union, was invited to join Khrushchev. It is reported that Khrushchev explained to McCloy that Kennedy's military build-up threatened war.\n\nIn early 1961, the East German government sought a way to stop its population leaving to the West. Walter Ulbricht, First Secretary of the Socialist Unity Party (SED) and Staatsrat chairman and thus East Germany's chief decision-maker, convinced the Soviet Union that force was necessary to stop this movement, although Berlin's four-power status required the allowance of free travel between zones and forbade the presence of German troops in Berlin.\n\nThe East German government began stockpiling building materials for the erection of the Berlin Wall; this activity was widely known, but only a small circle of Soviet and East German planners believed that East Germans were aware of the purpose. This material included enough barbed wire to enclose the 156 km (97 mi) circumference of West Berlin. The regime managed to avoid suspicion by spreading out the purchases of barbed wire among several East German companies, which in turn spread their orders out among a range of firms in West Germany and the United Kingdom.\n\nOn 15 June 1961, two months before the construction of the Berlin Wall started, Walter Ulbricht stated in an international press conference: \"Niemand hat die Absicht, eine Mauer zu errichten!\" (\"No one has the intention to erect a wall\"). It was the first time the term \"Mauer\" (wall) had been used in this context.\n\nOn 4–7 August 1961, the foreign ministers of the US, UK, France and West Germany secretly met in Paris to discuss how to respond to the Soviet actions in West Berlin. They expressed a lack of willingness to engage in warfare. Within weeks, the KGB provided Khrushchev with descriptions of the Paris talks. These showed that US Secretary of State Dean Rusk, unlike the West Germans, supported talks with the Soviet Union, though the KGB and the GRU warned that the US were being pressured by other members of the alliance to consider economic sanctions against East Germany and other socialist countries and to move faster on plans for conventional and nuclear armament of their allies in Western Europe, such as the West German Bundeswehr.\n\nThe West had advance intelligence about the construction of the Wall. On 6 August, a HUMINT source, a functionary in the SED, provided the 513th Military Intelligence Group (Berlin) with the correct date of the start of construction. At a weekly meeting of the Berlin Watch Committee on 9 August 1961, the Chief of the US Military Liaison Mission to the Commander Group of Soviet Forces Germany predicted the construction of a wall. An intercept of SED communications on the same day informed the West that there were plans to begin blocking all foot traffic between East and West Berlin. The interagency intelligence Watch Committee assessment said that this intercept \"might be the first step in a plan to close the border\", which turned out to be correct.\n\nOn Saturday 12 August 1961, the leaders of East Germany attended a garden party at a government guesthouse in Döllnsee, in a wooded area to the north of East Berlin, and Walter Ulbricht signed the order to close the border and erect a Wall.\n\nAt midnight, the army, police, and units of the East German army began to close the border and by morning on Sunday 13 August 1961 the border to West Berlin had been shut. East German troops and workers had begun to tear up streets running alongside the barrier to make them impassable to most vehicles, and to install barbed wire entanglements and fences along the around the three western sectors and the which actually divided West and East Berlin. Approximately 32,000 combat and engineer troops were employed for the building of the Wall, after which the Border Police became responsible for manning and improving it. To discourage Western interference and perhaps control potential riots, the Soviet Army was present.\n\nOn 30 August 1961, in response to moves by the Soviet Union to cut off access to Berlin, President Kennedy ordered 148,000 Guardsmen and Reservists to active duty. In October and November, more Air National Guard units were mobilised, and 216 aircraft from the tactical fighter units flew to Europe in operation \"Stair Step\", the largest jet deployment in the history of the Air Guard. Most of the mobilised Air Guardsmen remained in the US, while some others had been trained for delivery of tactical nuclear weapons and had to be retrained in Europe for conventional operations. The Air National Guard's ageing F-84s and F-86s required spare parts that the United States Air Forces in Europe lacked.\n\nRichard Bach wrote his book \"Stranger to the Ground\" centred around his experience as an Air National Guard pilot on this deployment.\n\nThe four powers governing Berlin (Soviet Union, United States, United Kingdom, and France) had agreed at the 1945 Potsdam Conference that Allied personnel could move freely in any sector of Berlin. But on 22 October 1961, just two months after the construction of the Wall, the US Chief of Mission in West Berlin, E. Allan Lightner, was stopped in his car (which had occupation forces license plates) while crossing at Checkpoint Charlie to go to a theatre in East Berlin. The former Army General Lucius D. Clay, US President John F. Kennedy's Special Advisor in West Berlin, decided to demonstrate American resolve. \n\nClay sent an American diplomat, Albert Hemsing, to probe the border. While probing in a vehicle clearly identified as belonging to a member of the US Mission in Berlin, Hemsing was stopped by East German police asking to see his passport. Once his identity became clear, US Military Police were rushed in. The Military Police escorted the diplomatic car as it drove into East Berlin and the shocked GDR police got out of the way. The car continued and the soldiers returned to West Berlin. A British diplomat — British cars were not immediately recognisable as belonging to the staff in Berlin — was stopped the next day and showed his identity card identifying him as a member of the British Military Government in Berlin, infuriating Clay.\n\nUS Commandant General Watson was outraged by the East Berlin police's attempt to control the passage of American military forces. He communicated to the Department of State on 25 October 1961 that Soviet Commandant Colonel Solovyev and his men were not doing their part to avoid disturbing actions during a time of peace negotiations, and demanded that the Soviet authorities take immediate steps to remedy the situation. Solovyev replied by describing American attempts to send armed soldiers across the checkpoint and keeping American tanks at sector boundary as an \"open provocation\" and a direct violation of GDR regulations. He insisted that properly identified American military could cross the sector border without impediments, and were only stopped when their nationality was not immediately clear to guards. Solovyev contended that requesting identifying paperwork from those crossing the border was not unreasonable control; Watson disagreed. In regards to the American military presence on the border, Solovyev warned:I am authorized to state that it is necessary to avoid actions of this kind. Such actions can provoke corresponding actions from our side. \"We have tanks too.\" We hate the idea of carrying out such actions, and are sure that you will re-examine your course.Perhaps this contributed to Hemsing's decision to make the attempt again: on 27 October 1961, Mr. Hemsing again approached the zonal boundary in a diplomatic vehicle. But Clay did not know how the Soviets would respond, so just in case, he had sent tanks with an infantry battalion to the nearby Tempelhof airfield. To everyone's relief the same routine was played out as before. The US Military Police and Jeeps went back to West Berlin, and the tanks waiting behind also went home.\nImmediately afterwards, 33 Soviet tanks drove to the Brandenburg Gate. Curiously, Soviet premier Nikita Khrushchev claimed in his memoirs that as he understood it, the American tanks had seen the Soviet tanks coming and retreated. Col. Jim Atwood, then Commander of the US Military Mission in West Berlin, disagreed in later statements. As one of the first to spot the tanks when they arrived, Lieutenant Vern Pike was ordered to verify whether they were indeed Soviet tanks. He and tank driver Sam McCart drove over to East Berlin, where Pike took advantage of a temporary absence of any soldiers near the tanks to climb into one of them. He came out with definitive evidence that the tanks were Soviet, including a Red Army newspaper.\n\nTen of these tanks continued to Friedrichstraße, and stopped just 50 to 100 metres from the checkpoint on the Soviet side of the sector boundary. The US tanks turned back towards the checkpoint, stopping an equal distance from it on the American side of the boundary. From 27 October 1961 at 17:00 until 28 October 1961 at about 11:00, the respective troops faced each other. As per standing orders, both groups of tanks were loaded with live munitions. The alert levels of the US Garrison in West Berlin, then NATO, and finally the US Strategic Air Command (SAC) were raised. Both groups of tanks had orders to fire if fired upon.\n\nIt was at this point that US Secretary of State Dean Rusk conveyed to General Lucius Clay, the US commanding officer in Berlin, that \"We had long since decided that Berlin is not a vital interest which would warrant determined recourse to force to protect and sustain.\" Clay was convinced that having US tanks use bulldozer mounts to knock down parts of the Wall would have ended the Crisis to the greater advantage of the US and its allies without eliciting a Soviet military response. His views, and corresponding evidence that the Soviets may have backed down following this action, support a more critical assessment of Kennedy's decisions during the crisis and his willingness to accept the Wall as the best solution.\n\nWith KGB spy Georgi Bolshakov serving as the primary channel of communication, Khrushchev and Kennedy agreed to reduce tensions by withdrawing the tanks. The Soviet checkpoint had direct communications to General Anatoly Gribkov at the Soviet Army High Command, who in turn was on the phone to Khrushchev. The US checkpoint contained a Military Police officer on the telephone to the HQ of the US Military Mission in Berlin, which in turn was in communication with the White House. Kennedy offered to go easy over Berlin in the future in return for the Soviets removing their tanks first. The Soviets agreed. Kennedy stated concerning the Wall: \"It's not a very nice solution, but a wall is a hell of a lot better than a war.\"\n\nA Soviet tank moved about 5 metres backwards first; then an American tank followed suit. One by one the tanks withdrew. But General Bruce C. Clarke, then the Commander-in-Chief (CINC) of US Army Europe (USAREUR), was said to have been concerned about Clay's conduct and Clay returned to the United States in May 1962. Gen. Clarke's assessment may have been incomplete, however: Clay's firmness had a great effect on the German population, led by West Berlin Mayor Willy Brandt and West German Chancellor Konrad Adenauer.\n\n"}
{"id": "18948039", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18948039", "title": "Berlin International Film Festival", "text": "Berlin International Film Festival\n\nThe Berlin International Film Festival (), usually called the Berlinale, is a film festival held annually in Berlin, Germany. Founded in West Berlin in 1951, the festival has been held every February since 1978.\n\nWith around 300,000 tickets sold and 500,000 admissions each year, it has the largest public attendance of any annual film festival. Up to 400 films are shown in several sections across cinematic genres. Around twenty films compete for the festival's top awards, called the Golden Bear and several Silver Bears. Since 2001 the director of the festival has been Dieter Kosslick.\n\nThe European Film Market (EFM), a film trade fair held simultaneously to the Berlinale, is a major industry meeting for the international film circuit. The trade fair serves distributors, film buyers, producers, financiers and co-production agents. The Berlinale Talents, a week-long series of lectures and workshops, is a gathering of young filmmakers held in partnership with the festival.\n\nThe film festival, EFM, and other satellite events are attended by around 20,000 professionals from over 130 countries. More than 4200 journalists produce media coverage in over 110 countries. At some high-profile feature film premieres held during the festival, movie stars and celebrities are present on the red carpet.\n\nThe Berlin International Film Festival was founded in West Berlin in 1951, with film historian Dr. Alfred Bauer as its first director, a position he would hold until 1976. Alfred Hitchcock’s \"Rebecca\" opened the first festival which ran from June 6-17th. \n\nBauer was succeeded by film journalist Wolf Donner in 1976. After his first Berlinale in June 1977, he successfully negotiated the shift of the festival from the summer to February (February 22nd - March 5th 1978), a change which has remained ever since.\n\nAfter only three years in the role, Donner was followed by Moritz de Hadeln who held the position from 1980 until current director Dieter Kosslick took over in 2001.\n\nThe festival is composed of seven different film sections. Films are chosen in each category by a section director with the advice of a committee of film experts. Categories include:\n\nCompetition: comprises feature-length films yet to be released outside their country of origin. Films in the Competition section compete for several prizes, including the top Golden Bear for the best film and a series of Silver Bears for acting, writing and production.\n\nPanorama: comprises new independent and arthouse films that deal with \"controversial subjects or unconventional aesthetic styles\". Films in the category are intended to provoke discussion, and have historically involved themes such as LGBT issues.\n\nForum: comprises experimental and documentary films from around the world with a particular emphasis on screening works by younger filmmakers. There are no format or genre restrictions, and films in the Forum do not compete for awards.\n\nGeneration: comprises a mixture of short and feature-length films aimed at children and youths. Films in the Generation section compete in two sub-categories: Generation Kplus (aimed at those aged four and above) and Generation 14plus (aimed at those aged fourteen and above). Awards in the section are determined by three separate juries—the Children's Jury, the Youth Jury and an international jury of experts—whose decisions are made independent of one another.\n\nPerspektive Deutsches Kino: comprises a wide variety of German films, with an emphasis on highlighting current trends in German cinema. There are few entry requirements, enabling emerging filmmakers to display their work to domestic and international audiences.\n\nBerlinale Shorts: comprises domestic and international short films, especially those that demonstrate innovative approaches to filmmaking. Films in the category compete for the Golden Bear for the best short film, as well as a jury-nominated Silver Bear.\n\nRetrospective: comprises classic films previously shown at the Berlinale, with films collated from the Competition, Forum, Panorama and Generation categories. Each year, the Retrospective section is dedicated to important themes or filmmakers. The special Homage series similarly examines past cinema, with a focus on honouring the life work of directors and actors.\n\nIn addition to the seven sections, the Berlinale also contains several linked \"curated special series\", including the Berlinale Special, Gala Special, Forum 5, Culinary Cinema and the Homage. Since 2002 a 50-second trailer opens the performances in all sections of the festival with the exception of the Retrospective.\n\nThe Golden Bear (German: Goldener Bär) is the highest prize awarded for the best film at the Berlin International Film Festival.\n\nGolden Bear (\"Goldener Bär)\"\n\nSilver Bear (\"Silberner Bär\")\nThe Silver Bear was introduced in 1956 as an award for individual achievements in direction and acting, and for best short film.\n\nIn 1965 a special film award for the runner-up to the Golden Bear was introduced. Although its official name was the \"Special Jury Price\" from 1965 to 1999, and has been the \"Jury Grand Prix\" since 2000, it is commonly known as the Silver Bear (just like the awards for individual achievements) as it is regarded as a second place award after the Golden Bear.\n\nIn 1978, a Silver Bear for special recognitions was introduced, in 2002 a Silver Bear for best film music, and in 2008 an award for best screenplay.\n\n\nOther awards at the Berlin International Film Festival\n\nThe European Film Market (EFM) is one of three largest movie markets in the world. It is the business centre during the time of the Berlinale Film Festival. The EFM is the major venue for film producers, buyers, financiers, sales agents, and distributors. It is a professional trade event, so is open to registered industry insiders. In 2011, 400 companies registered and 6,982 market badges were issued; 1,532 buyers have registered.\n\nThe trade fair provides exhibition space for companies presenting their current line-up. It organizes over 1000 screenings of new films, which take place at movie theatres around Potsdamer Platz. In 2007, the CinemaxX and CineStar were used to showcase new productions. In 2010, the Astor Film Lounge showed market screenings in three dimensions using digital RealD technology.\n\nThe Berlinale Co-Production Market is a three-day networking platform for producers and financiers, as well as broadcasting and funding representatives who are participating in international co-productions. At the Berlinale Co-Production Market, producers can introduce selected projects and find co-production partners and/or financiers in one-on-one meetings.\n\nCommencing in 2003, the Berlinale has partnered with the Berlinale Talents (previously Berlinale Talent Campus), which is a winter school for \"up-and-coming filmmakers\" that takes place at the same time as the festival. The Talent Campus accepts about 250 applicants each year; the attendees come from around the world, and represent all of the filmmaking professions.\n\nThe event runs six days during the Berlinale and features lectures and panel discussions with well-known professionals addressing issues in filmmaking. Workshops, excursions, personal tutoring, coaching, and training of participants from different fields of work are part of the programme.\n\nThe proceedings include presentations by distinguished experts, who have included Park Chan-wook, Frances McDormand, Stephen Frears, Dennis Hopper, Jia Zhangke, Walter Murch, Shah Rukh Khan, Joshua Oppenheimer, Anthony Minghella, Charlotte Rampling, Walter Salles, Ridley Scott, Raoul Peck, Tom Tykwer, Mike Leigh, Tilda Swinton, and Wim Wenders. Many of these presentations and lectures are archived, both as video recordings and as transcripts, on the Talent Campus' website.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14421776", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14421776", "title": "Capital (newspaper)", "text": "Capital (newspaper)\n\nCapital () is an influential Bulgarian weekly business newspaper, published since 1992. Preferred mainly by the business community, \"Capital\" is known for its coverage of the current political and economic affairs, analyses and supplements.\n\n\"Capital\" was established in 1992. As of 2002, \"Capital\" was part of Georg von Holtzbrinck Publishing Group who owned part of the Economedia publishing company. In November 2007 the Bulgarian owners of Economedia bought the shares back.\n"}
{"id": "26457394", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26457394", "title": "Commodore Cup", "text": "Commodore Cup\n\nThe Commodore Cup was an Australian motor racing series. A one-make series originally devised by Victorian racers Maurie Platt and David Gittus, it was named for the car all competitors were required to use in competition, the Holden Commodore.\n\nThe category has always been a national series, but also mostly an amateur series. Despite this, the category has produced a V8 Supercar race winner in Lee Holdsworth. The category was one of the core categories of the Shannons Nationals Motor Racing Championships. The most successful driver in the series has been Geoff Emery, who has won the Commodore Cup series five times.\n\nEligibility was limited to specific Commodore models. Originally, only the first three series were allowed: VB, VC and VH. Motive power was limited to the 4.2-litre version of the Holden V8 engine. The regulations were designed to provide a limited level of performance modification, while not making the category overly expensive to run. The first season was held in 1994. Since its beginning, the category has always been moderately well supported with grid sizes in the 15–25 bracket.\n\nThe first major change to series regulations came in 2004 when VR and VS model Commodores were made eligible. The mechanical package was not changed substantially. The later model cars proved to be faster than the older ones, leading to a drop off in numbers of the older model Commodores.\n\nIn November 2012, it was announced that the series would fold due to consistently small entry numbers during the season. The cars themselves are still eligible for Improved Production classes.\n\n"}
{"id": "6751", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6751", "title": "Cottingley Fairies", "text": "Cottingley Fairies\n\nThe Cottingley Fairies appear in a series of five photographs taken by Elsie Wright (1901–1988) and Frances Griffiths (1907–1986), two young cousins who lived in Cottingley, near Bradford in England. In 1917, when the first two photographs were taken, Elsie was 16 years old and Frances was 9. The pictures came to the attention of writer Sir Arthur Conan Doyle, who used them to illustrate an article on fairies he had been commissioned to write for the Christmas 1920 edition of \"The Strand Magazine\". Doyle, as a spiritualist, was enthusiastic about the photographs, and interpreted them as clear and visible evidence of psychic phenomena. Public reaction was mixed; some accepted the images as genuine, others believed that they had been faked.\n\nInterest in the Cottingley Fairies gradually declined after 1921. Both girls married and lived abroad for a time after they grew up, yet the photographs continued to hold the public imagination. In 1966 a reporter from the \"Daily Express\" newspaper traced Elsie, who had by then returned to the UK. Elsie left open the possibility that she believed she had photographed her thoughts, and the media once again became interested in the story.\n\nIn the early 1980s Elsie and Frances admitted that the photographs were faked, using cardboard cutouts of fairies copied from a popular children's book of the time, but Frances maintained that the fifth and final photograph was genuine. The photographs and two of the cameras used are on display in the National Science and Media Museum in Bradford, England.\n\nIn mid-1917 nine-year-old Frances Griffiths and her mother—both newly arrived in the UK from South Africa—were staying with Frances' aunt, Elsie Wright's mother, in the village of Cottingley in West Yorkshire; Elsie was then 16 years old. The two girls often played together beside the beck (stream) at the bottom of the garden, much to their mothers' annoyance, because they frequently came back with wet feet and clothes. Frances and Elsie said they only went to the beck to see the fairies, and to prove it, Elsie borrowed her father's camera, a Midg quarter-plate. The girls returned about 30 minutes later, \"triumphant\".\n\nElsie's father, Arthur, was a keen amateur photographer, and had set up his own darkroom. The picture on the photographic plate he developed showed Frances behind a bush in the foreground, on which four fairies appeared to be dancing. Knowing his daughter's artistic ability, and that she had spent some time working in a photographer's studio, he dismissed the figures as cardboard cutouts. Two months later the girls borrowed his camera again, and this time returned with a photograph of Elsie sitting on the lawn holding out her hand to a gnome. Exasperated by what he believed to be \"nothing but a prank\", and convinced that the girls must have tampered with his camera in some way, Arthur Wright refused to lend it to them again. His wife Polly, however, believed the photographs to be authentic.\n\nTowards the end of 1918, Frances sent a letter to Johanna Parvin, a friend in Cape Town, South Africa, where Frances had lived for most of her life, enclosing the photograph of herself with the fairies. On the back she wrote \"It is funny, I never used to see them in Africa. It must be too hot for them there.\"\n\nThe photographs became public in mid-1919, after Elsie's mother attended a meeting of the Theosophical Society in Bradford. The lecture that evening was on \"fairy life\", and at the end of the meeting Polly Wright showed the two fairy photographs taken by her daughter and niece to the speaker. As a result, the photographs were displayed at the society's annual conference in Harrogate, held a few months later. There they came to the attention of a leading member of the society, Edward Gardner. One of the central beliefs of theosophy is that humanity is undergoing a cycle of evolution, towards increasing \"perfection\", and Gardner recognised the potential significance of the photographs for the movement:\nGardner sent the prints along with the original glass-plate negatives to Harold Snelling, a photography expert. Snelling's opinion was that \"the two negatives are entirely genuine, unfaked photographs ... [with] no trace whatsoever of studio work involving card or paper models\". He did not go so far as to say that the photographs showed fairies, stating only that \"these are straight forward photographs of whatever was in front of the camera at the time\". Gardner had the prints \"clarified\" by Snelling, and new negatives produced, \"more conducive to printing\", for use in the illustrated lectures he gave around the UK. Snelling supplied the photographic prints which were available for sale at Gardner's lectures.\nAuthor and prominent spiritualist Sir Arthur Conan Doyle learned of the photographs from the editor of the spiritualist publication \"Light\". Doyle had been commissioned by \"The Strand Magazine\" to write an article on fairies for their Christmas issue, and the fairy photographs \"must have seemed like a godsend\" according to broadcaster and historian Magnus Magnusson. Doyle contacted Gardner in June 1920 to determine the background to the photographs, and wrote to Elsie and her father to request permission from the latter to use the prints in his article. Arthur Wright was \"obviously impressed\" that Doyle was involved, and gave his permission for publication, but he refused payment on the grounds that, if genuine, the images should not be \"soiled\" by money.\n\nGardner and Doyle sought a second expert opinion from the photographic company Kodak. Several of the company's technicians examined the enhanced prints, and although they agreed with Snelling that the pictures \"showed no signs of being faked\", they concluded that \"this could not be taken as conclusive evidence ... that they were authentic photographs of fairies\". Kodak declined to issue a certificate of authenticity. Gardner believed that the Kodak technicians might not have examined the photographs entirely objectively, observing that one had commented \"after all, as fairies couldn't be true, the photographs must have been faked somehow\". The prints were also examined by another photographic company, Ilford, who reported unequivocally that there was \"some evidence of faking\". Gardner and Doyle, perhaps rather optimistically, interpreted the results of the three expert evaluations as two in favour of the photographs' authenticity and one against.\n\nDoyle also showed the photographs to the physicist and pioneering psychical researcher Sir Oliver Lodge, who believed the photographs to be fake. He suggested that a troupe of dancers had masqueraded as fairies, and expressed doubt as to their \"distinctly 'Parisienne hairstyles.\n\nOn October 4, 2018 the first two of the photographs, \"Alice and the Fairies\" and \"Iris and the Gnome,\" were to be sold by Dominic Winter Auctioneers, in Gloucestershire. The prints, suspected to have been made in 1920 to sell at theosophical lectures, were expected to bring £700-£1000 each.\n\nDoyle was preoccupied with organising an imminent lecture tour of Australia, and in July 1920, sent Gardner to meet the Wright family. Frances was by then living with her parents in Scarborough, but Elsie's father told Gardner that he had been so certain the photographs were fakes that while the girls were away he searched their bedroom and the area around the beck (stream), looking for scraps of pictures or cutouts, but found nothing \"incriminating\".\nGardner believed the Wright family to be honest and respectable. To place the matter of the photographs' authenticity beyond doubt, he returned to Cottingley at the end of July with two Kodak Cameo cameras and 24 secretly marked photographic plates. Frances was invited to stay with the Wright family during the school summer holiday so that she and Elsie could take more pictures of the fairies. Gardner described his briefing in his 1945 \"Fairies: A Book of Real Fairies\":\n\nUntil 19 August the weather was unsuitable for photography. Because Frances and Elsie insisted that the fairies would not show themselves if others were watching, Elsie's mother was persuaded to visit her sister's for tea, leaving the girls alone. In her absence the girls took several photographs, two of which appeared to show fairies. In the first, \"Frances and the Leaping Fairy\", Frances is shown in profile with a winged fairy close by her nose. The second, \"Fairy offering Posy of Harebells to Elsie\", shows a fairy either hovering or tiptoeing on a branch, and offering Elsie a flower. Two days later the girls took the last picture, \"Fairies and Their Sun-Bath\".\n\nThe plates were packed in cotton wool and returned to Gardner in London, who sent an \"ecstatic\" telegram to Doyle, by then in Melbourne. Doyle wrote back:\n\nDoyle's article in the December 1920 issue of \"The Strand\" contained two higher-resolution prints of the 1917 photographs, and sold out within days of publication. To protect the girls' anonymity, Frances and Elsie were called Alice and Iris respectively, and the Wright family was referred to as the \"Carpenters\". An enthusiastic and committed spiritualist, Doyle hoped that if the photographs convinced the public of the existence of fairies then they might more readily accept other psychic phenomena. He ended his article with the words:\n\nEarly press coverage was \"mixed\", generally a combination of \"embarrassment and puzzlement\". The historical novelist and poet Maurice Hewlett published a series of articles in the literary journal \"John O' London's Weekly\", in which he concluded: \"And knowing children, and knowing that Sir Arthur Conan Doyle has legs, I decide that the Miss Carpenters have pulled one of them.\" The Sydney newspaper \"Truth\" on 5 January 1921 expressed a similar view; \"For the true explanation of these fairy photographs what is wanted is not a knowledge of occult phenomena but a knowledge of children.\" Some public figures were more sympathetic. Margaret McMillan, the educational and social reformer, wrote: \"How wonderful that to these dear children such a wonderful gift has been vouchsafed.\" The novelist Henry De Vere Stacpoole decided to take the fairy photographs and the girls at face value. In a letter to Gardner he wrote: \"Look at Alice's [Frances'] face. Look at Iris's [Elsie's] face. There is an extraordinary thing called Truth which has 10 million faces and forms – it is God's currency and the cleverest coiner or forger can't imitate it.\"\n\nMajor John Hall-Edwards, a keen photographer and pioneer of medical X-ray treatments in Britain, was a particularly vigorous critic:\n\nDoyle used the later photographs in 1921 to illustrate a second article in \"The Strand\", in which he described other accounts of fairy sightings. The article formed the foundation for his 1922 book \"The Coming of the Fairies\". As before, the photographs were received with mixed credulity. Sceptics noted that the fairies \"looked suspiciously like the traditional fairies of nursery tales\" and that they had \"very fashionable hairstyles\".\n\nGardner made a final visit to Cottingley in August 1921. He again brought cameras and photographic plates for Frances and Elsie, but was accompanied by the clairvoyant Geoffrey Hodson. Although neither of the girls claimed to see any fairies, and there were no more photographs, \"on the contrary, he [Hodson] saw them [fairies] everywhere\" and wrote voluminous notes on his observations.\n\nBy now Elsie and Frances were tired of the whole fairy business. Years later Elsie looked at a photograph of herself and Frances taken with Hodson and said: \"Look at that, fed up with fairies.\" Both Elsie and Frances later admitted that they \"played along\" with Hodson \"out of mischief\", and that they considered him \"a fake\".\n\nPublic interest in the Cottingley Fairies gradually subsided after 1921. Elsie and Frances eventually married and lived abroad for many years. In 1966, a reporter from the \"Daily Express\" newspaper traced Elsie, who was by then back in England. She admitted in an interview given that year that the fairies might have been \"figments of my imagination\", but left open the possibility she believed that she had somehow managed to photograph her thoughts. The media subsequently became interested in Frances and Elsie's photographs once again. BBC television's \"Nationwide\" programme investigated the case in 1971, but Elsie stuck to her story: \"I've told you that they're photographs of figments of our imagination, and that's what I'm sticking to\".\n\nElsie and Frances were interviewed by journalist Austin Mitchell in September 1976, for a programme broadcast on Yorkshire Television. When pressed, both women agreed that \"a rational person doesn't see fairies\", but they denied having fabricated the photographs. In 1978 the magician and scientific sceptic James Randi and a team from the Committee for the Scientific Investigation of Claims of the Paranormal examined the photographs, using a \"computer enhancement process\". They concluded that the photographs were fakes, and that strings could be seen supporting the fairies. Geoffrey Crawley, editor of the \"British Journal of Photography\", undertook a \"major scientific investigation of the photographs and the events surrounding them\", published between 1982 and 1983, \"the first major postwar analysis of the affair\". He also concluded that the pictures were fakes.\n\nIn 1983, the cousins admitted in an article published in the magazine \"The Unexplained\" that the photographs had been faked, although both maintained that they really had seen fairies. Elsie had copied illustrations of dancing girls from a popular children's book of the time, \"Princess Mary's Gift Book\", published in 1914, and drew wings on them. They said they had then cut out the cardboard figures and supported them with hatpins, disposing of their props in the beck once the photograph had been taken. But the cousins disagreed about the fifth and final photograph, which Doyle in his \"The Coming of the Fairies\" described in this way:\n\nElsie maintained it was a fake, just like all the others, but Frances insisted that it was genuine. In an interview given in the early 1980s Frances said:\n\nBoth Frances and Elsie claimed to have taken the fifth photograph. In a letter published in \"The Times\" newspaper on 9 April 1983, Geoffrey Crawley explained the discrepancy by suggesting that the photograph was \"an unintended double exposure of fairy cutouts in the grass\", and thus \"both ladies can be quite sincere in believing that they each took it\".\n\nIn a 1985 interview on Yorkshire Television's \"Arthur C. Clarke's World of Strange Powers\", Elsie said that she and Frances were too embarrassed to admit the truth after fooling Doyle, the author of Sherlock Holmes: \"Two village kids and a brilliant man like Conan Doyle – well, we could only keep quiet.\" In the same interview Frances said: \"I never even thought of it as being a fraud – it was just Elsie and I having a bit of fun and I can't understand to this day why they were taken in – they wanted to be taken in.\"\n\nFrances died in 1986, and Elsie in 1988. Prints of their photographs of the fairies, along with a few other items including a first edition of Doyle's book \"The Coming of the Fairies\", were sold at auction in London for £21,620 in 1998. That same year, Geoffrey Crawley sold his Cottingley Fairy material to the National Museum of Film, Photography and Television in Bradford (now the National Science and Media Museum), where it is on display. The collection included prints of the photographs, two of the cameras used by the girls, watercolours of fairies painted by Elsie, and a nine-page letter from Elsie admitting to the hoax.\nThe glass photographic plates were bought for £6,000 by an unnamed buyer at a London auction held in 2001.\n\nFrances' daughter, Christine Lynch, appeared in an episode of the television programme \"Antiques Roadshow\" in Belfast, broadcast on BBC One in January 2009, with the photographs and one of the cameras given to the girls by Doyle. Christine told the expert, Paul Atterbury, that she believed, as her mother had done, that the fairies in the fifth photograph were genuine. Atterbury estimated the value of the items at between £25,000 and £30,000. The first edition of Frances' memoirs was published a few months later, under the title \"Reflections on the Cottingley Fairies\". The book contains correspondence, sometimes \"bitter\", between Elsie and Frances. In one letter, dated 1983, Frances wrote:\nThe 1997 films \"\" and \"Photographing Fairies\" were inspired by the events surrounding the Cottingley Fairies. The photographs were parodied in a 1994 book written by Terry Jones and Brian Froud, \"Lady Cottington's Pressed Fairy Book\".\n\nIn 2017 a further two fairy photographs were presented as evidence that the girls' parents were part of the conspiracy. Dating from 1917 and 1918, both photographs are poorly executed copies of two of the original fairy photographs. One was published in 1918 in \"The Sphere\" newspaper, which was before the originals had been seen by anyone outside the girls' immediate family.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42705754", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42705754", "title": "Daniel A. Nigro", "text": "Daniel A. Nigro\n\nDaniel A. Nigro is the Commissioner of the New York City Fire Department (FDNY). Nigro's appointment was announced on May 9, 2014, and he was sworn in on June 9.\n\nNigro is the 33rd Commissioner in the 150-year history of the New York City Fire Department. The Commissioner is the most senior member of the fire department, and it is a civilian, non-uniformed office.\n\nNigro grew up in the Bayside neighborhood of Queens, New York. He later attended Baruch College. Nigro's father was a Captain in the FDNY.\n\nIn 1969, Nigro joined the FDNY. He became a Deputy Chief in 1993, and in 1996, he oversaw the merging of the city's ambulance squads with the fire department.\n\nNigro was appointed Chief of the Department—the highest-ranking uniformed position—following the death of Chief Peter J. Ganci, Jr., in the 9/11 attacks. Nigro was regarded for his leadership following the deaths of 343 firefighters in the attacks.\n\nNigro retired as Chief in 2002. That same year, in retirement, Nigro was a member of an FDNY anti-terrorism task force.\n\nRegarding Nigro's appointment as Commissioner, New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio said: \"Our administration is committed to building on this department’s impressive record, increasing diversity in the ranks, and improving response time and I know Daniel has what it takes to lead the FDNY forward\".\n"}
{"id": "47889084", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47889084", "title": "De Ronde van Frankrijk", "text": "De Ronde van Frankrijk\n\nDe Ronde van Frankrijk (\"The Tour de France\") was a Belgian gag cartoon comic strip series by Marc Sleen, in which he made a comedic report of every daily tournament of the annual cycling contest the Tour de France. Sleen drew the strip each year, from 1947 up until 1964, for the Flemish newspapers \"Het Vrije Volksblad\" and \"Het Volk\".\n\nEach daily cartoon was a summarization of the tournament held the day before. Sleen drew caricatures of all famous cyclists and made puns on their names and typical cycling jargon. A running gag was the always losing Belgian team. He also gave famous politicians of the day a cameo appearance, including characters from his other comics series and the over-worked artist himself.\n\nSleen first drew the series in 1947. In 1948 he travelled along with the other journalists and the Belgian team leader Romain Maes, but on all other occasions he remained at home, while listening to the live radio report. Often he drew the body of the winning cyclist of that day beforehand and waited with drawing the head until the winner was announced. When his cartoon was finished Sleen waited for a motorcyclist to pick up his drawing and drive back to the newspaper's office in Ghent, so it could be published in the extra sports edition later that evening.\n\nThe series was terminated in 1965, along with Sleen's other gag-a-day comics, when he left \"Het Volk\" for the newspaper \"De Standaard\". Sleen also illustrated the cycling books \"Figuren uit de Tour\" and \"Humor en Tragiek uit de Tour\" by Jan Cornand and illustrated journalist Hubert Van De Vijver's reports. After Sleen left other artists tried to continue the series, but not with the same success.\n\nIn 1992 all the cartoons were compiled into Frans Lodewijckx' book \"De Grote Rondes van Marc Sleen\". Each chapter was enriched with commentaries of the newspapers' best reporters: Michel Casteels, Jan Cornand, Jérome Stevens, Willy Hofmans and André Blancke. Only the final installments of the 1948 and 1949 editions were lost and couldn't be retraced.\n\n"}
{"id": "52013333", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52013333", "title": "Emmy Ruiz", "text": "Emmy Ruiz\n\nEmmy Ruiz is an American political strategist and political staffer. She most recently served as the Colorado State Director for Hillary Clinton's 2016 presidential campaign.\n\nAfter graduating from the University of Texas at San Antonio in 2006, Emmy Ruiz began working on political campaigns in 2008 as the Latino outreach director on Hillary Clinton's 2008 presidential campaign in Nevada. Ruiz told NBC News that she initially got into politics because of her admiration for Clinton:\n\n“ I was working for the American Red Cross in San Antonio after college, going to (the University of Texas, San Antonio) and I always wanted to work for Hillary. I've loved her and when she ran for president (in 2008) my brother was like, 'why don't you go work for her?' And I thought she'd never hire me. I was the first field organizer hired, and coming out to Las Vegas to work for Hillary Clinton as a field organizer changed my life.\nThat year, Clinton won the Nevada caucus over Barack Obama, a victory that \"underscored her strength among Hispanic voters,\" according to The New York Times.\n\nAfter the Clinton campaign, from 2009 until 2011, Ruiz worked as a Texas field director for the Democratic National Committee.\nBeginning in May 2011, Ruiz worked for a number of organizations associated with President Barack Obama (D). She initially worked as a field director for Organizing for America in Nevada and in Texas. During Obama's 2012 reelection campaign, Ruiz transitioned to direct Obama's efforts in Nevada. Obama won the state over Mitt Romney (R) in the general election.\n\nAfter the election, Ruiz managed the comprehensive immigration reform campaign for Organizing for Action, a 501(c)(4) organization that was set up with the infrastructure from Obama's 2012 campaign. While working on the immigration campaign, Ruiz was involved in publicity for the immigration reform debates happening in Congress.\n\nRuiz left Organizing for Action to join Annie's List as the group's political director. Annie's List is an organization that \"recruits, trains, supports and elects progressive, pro-choice women in Texas.\" According to Marie Claire, Ruiz came back to Texas to work for Annie's List in order to mobilize women to vote. The magazine noted that one of Ruiz's organizing issues was the statewide cuts to family planning clinics. Ruiz told the magazine, \"Women are realizing they need to get involved. They can't sit on the sidelines anymore. ... We have to see candidates who represent our values and interests.\"\n\nDuring the primary elections, Emmy Ruiz worked in Nevada as the Clinton campaign's Nevada caucus director. She was hired early in 2015 to this position, and she noted in an April 2015 fundraising email that she had already \"knocked on countless doors in every part of the state on behalf of Hillary.\"\n\nIn a February 2016 interview with NBC News, Ruiz explained why she supported Clinton in 2008 and 2016:\n\n“Hillary has this strong, strong record of fighting for Latino families. Hillary got her start organizing in politics for public justice, by registering voters in the '70s in the Rio Grande Valley - that's where I was born and raised. ... Her first trip to Nevada, she sat down with Dreamers, unscripted, off the cuff and said, 'talk to me about the challenges you are facing.' And you know what? They really held her to it. And she answered their tough questions - and they endorsed her.”\n\nOn April 29, 2016, Bloomberg reported that Emmy Ruiz would transfer from her position in Nevada to work as the campaign's state director for Colorado. The Associated Press noted that Ruiz's appointment, along with that of Mike Vlacich and the hiring of Simone Ward to state-level positions in the general election campaign, pointed towards Clinton campaign making early preparations \"for what may be a hard-fought — and personally ugly — fall campaign.\" Ruiz worked closely with the Colorado Democrats, led by coordinated director Lisa Changadveja. \n\nSpeaking with KRDO, Ruiz explained the Colorado campaign's approach, saying, \"Our campaign in Colorado isn't taking anything for granted. Each day we're working hard in every corner of the state to talk about the clear choice in this election between a candidate who divides people and has run multiple businesses into the ground and a candidate who is committed to bringing people together and building an economy that works for everyone.\"\n\nIn August 2016, Ruiz explained that she felt confident in Clinton's state campaign, saying, \"Americans and Coloradans have been paying attention, they have been listening. ... They've been hearing all the divisive language that Trump has been talking about. and that they have no interest in voting for him.\"\n"}
{"id": "26941319", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26941319", "title": "Eurovision Song Contest Previews", "text": "Eurovision Song Contest Previews\n\nThe Eurovision Song Contest Previews are annually broadcast TV shows showcasing the entries into the forthcoming Eurovision Song Contest. They were inaugurated in 1971 for the contest in Dublin, Ireland, and have been provided by the European Broadcasting Union (EBU) to all participating countries ever since.\n\nFor a period, the BBC were responsible for 'collecting' the preview videos and distributing them to the various participating countries. This has been carried out by the contest's host nation more recently. In recent years, the Nordic broadcasters (Iceland, Sweden, Denmark, Norway and Finland) have co-produced preview shows for broadcast across their region.\n\nAll participants in the Eurovision Song Contest are required to submit a video of their entry to the EBU via the host broadcaster, to be distributed across the Eurovision network. From 1971 until the early 1990s, it was compulsory for all participants to broadcast the videos. Since the mid-1990s it has become optional. Broadcasters either submit a performance of the given song – usually taken from their local national final – or a \"music video\" of the entry, specifically filmed for the purpose. In 1971, the Belgian preview video featured singers Nicole & Hugo who were forced to withdraw days before the Eurovision final due to illness, being replaced by Jacques Raymond and Lily Castel.\n\nOccasionally countries rely on funding from their government tourism budget to produce the video, leading to highly commercial offerings highlighting the given country's natural beauty. Often songs would vary from the version that would be heard in the contest itself; either through a change in language or a variance between the length of the recorded version and the permitted live version, or through a variance in orchestration and arrangement.\n\nEarly rules stated that the videos could not be broadcast in any less than two shows and the songs had to be broadcast in full. Later amendments allowed the videos to be broadcast incomplete, but that meant the length of each video still had to match. Generally speaking, the countries broadcast the shows in two parts, the entries divided as evenly as practicable between the two shows.\n\nIn 1974, a two-night preview programme, \"Auftakt für Brighton\" (\"Prelude for Brighton\"), was coordinated by the German national broadcaster ARD. It was broadcast at the end of March and hosted by the journalist Karin Tietze-Ludwig. It was the first \"preview\"-type programme to be broadcast in many European countries simultaneously (rather than each national broadcaster showing their own preview programme). The programme was also notable in being the European television debut for the winners, ABBA, who were peculiarly credited in previews as \"The Abba\". It was first aired on German television Hessischer Rundfunk on 27–28 March and in Finland on 30 March as \"Eurovision laulukilpailu\". The UK did not broadcast the programmes, instead airing their own preview shows introduced by David Vine on BBC1 on 24 and 31 March. In the same year, the French entry was broadcast by all the nations showing the previews, even though the song was withdrawn from the Eurovision final itself.\n\nIn 1977, the previews were broadcast across Europe ahead of the original scheduled broadcast date of 2 April for the Eurovision final. When the contest was postponed to 7 May, this left a long gap between the preview shows airing and the final. It was also stated in the rule book that the name of the broadcasting TV station for each country be carried on screen to introduce the songs. But many broadcasters ignored this.\n\nFrom approximately 2000, the videos have been available online via the Eurovision website and most broadcasters upload them to their own, local Eurovision site.\n\nSan Marino broadcaster SMtv televised the previews for the first time in 2012, showing the videos in multiple programmes in the run up to the contest on a rotating basis, hosted by John Kennedy O'Connor. SMtv has broadcast them every year since, under various formats. In 2014 O'Connor presented each entry on location in San Marino and in 2015 each entry was linked by video to the participating country. The 2016, 2017 & 2018 previews were presented in a studio setting.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, the BBC broadcast the programmes in two parts, every year from 1971 to 1994 on BBC1 and then again in 2002 and 2003 on BBC Choice, later BBC Three, in multiple shows over one week. The preview shows have been hosted by a variety of presenters over the years; including Terry Wogan, Gloria Hunniford, Ken Bruce and Lorraine Kelly.\n\nGenerally, but by no means always, the songs were broadcast in the order they would appear in the contest, with the UK entry saved until the end. For 1979 to 1982, the songs were shown in a random order, despite host Terry Wogan insisting in 1979 that the songs were being shown in competition order during the broadcasts. In 1982, the UK entry was scheduled to be broadcast at the end of the second programme, but was also included in the first programme in the absence of the Greek entry that was withdrawn while the shows were in production. In 1983, the UK preview video consisted of the group Sweet Dreams in speed boats off the coast of Dover, Southern England, with the engine noise of the vessels included in the soundtrack, partially obscuring the song itself.\n\nWith only two exceptions (1972 and 1973) the shows were broadcast on Sunday afternoons. In 1972, the shows were given a prime-time airing in the BBC1 evening schedule.\n\nFrom 1976 to 1985, the BBC provided a specifically filmed 'video' of the artist on location in the UK. In all other years, they have simply provided the performance from the national final, although often the artist's record company will also send their own commercially released video for use by the broadcasters, but these were never shown in the UK broadcasts. From 1984, the BBC included the contributing broadcasters acronym on screen for each entry.\n\nThe UK broadcast details are as follows, with the countries listed in the order they were shown:\n\n1971 - Host: Cliff Richard<br>\nBroadcast: 3:00pm Sunday, 21 March & Sunday, 28 March.<br>\nPart 1: Austria, Malta, Monaco, Switzerland, Germany, Spain, France, Luxembourg, Belgium.<br>\nPart 2: Italy, Sweden, Ireland, Netherlands, Portugal, Yugoslavia, Finland, Norway, United Kingdom.\n\n1972 - Host: Cliff Richard<br>\nBroadcast: 7:30pm Monday, 13 March & Monday, 20 March.<br>\nPart 1: Germany, France, Ireland, Spain, Norway, Portugal, Switzerland, Malta, United Kingdom.<br>\nPart 2: Finland, Austria, Italy, Yugoslavia, Sweden, Monaco, Belgium, Luxembourg, Netherlands.\n\n1973 - Host: Terry Wogan<br>\nBroadcast: 5:05pm Saturday, 24 March & Saturday, 31 March.<br>\nPart 1: Finland, Belgium, Portugal, Germany, Norway, Monaco, Spain, Switzerland, Yugoslavia.<br>\nPart 2: Italy, Luxembourg, Sweden, Netherlands, Ireland, France, Israel, United Kingdom.\n\n1974 - Host: David Vine<br>\nBroadcast: 4:50pm Sunday, 24 March & 4:45pm Sunday, 31 March.<br>\nPart 1: Finland, Spain, Norway, Greece, Israel, Yugoslavia.<br>\nPart 2: Sweden, Luxembourg, Monaco, Belgium, Netherlands, Ireland, Germany, France, Switzerland, Portugal, Italy, United Kingdom.\n\n1975 - Host: Terry Wogan<br>\nBroadcast: 4:20pm Sunday, 9 March & 3:50pm Sunday, 16 March.<br>\nPart 1: Netherlands, Ireland, France, Germany, Luxembourg, Norway, Switzerland, Yugoslavia, Malta, Belgium.<br>\nPart 2: Israel, Turkey, Monaco, Finland, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, Italy, United Kingdom.<br>\nPete Murray was listed in the \"Radio Times\" as the host of the two shows, but Terry Wogan replaced in as the presenter.\n\n1976 - Host: Michael Aspel<br>\nBroadcast: 4:55pm Sunday, 21 March & Sunday, 28 March.<br>\nPart 1: Switzerland, Germany, Israel, Luxembourg, Belgium, Ireland, Netherlands, Norway, Greece.<br>\nPart 2: Finland, Spain, Italy, Austria, Portugal, Monaco, France, Yugoslavia, United Kingdom.\n\n1977 - Host: Terry Wogan<br>\nBroadcast: 3:55pm Sunday, 20 March & 4:00pm Sunday, 27 March.<br>\nPart 1: Ireland, Monaco, Netherlands, Austria, Norway, Germany, Luxembourg, Portugal, Greece.<br>\nPart 2: Israel, Switzerland, Sweden, Spain, Italy, Finland, Belgium, France, United Kingdom.\n\n1978 - Host: Terry Wogan<br>\nBroadcast: 4:20pm Sunday, 9 April & 4:10pm Sunday, 16 April.<br>\nPart 1: Ireland, Norway, Italy, Finland, Portugal, France, Spain, Switzerland, Belgium, Netherlands.<br>\nPart 2: Turkey, Germany, Monaco, Greece, Denmark, Luxembourg, Israel, Austria, Sweden, United Kingdom.\n\n1979 - Host: Terry Wogan<br>\nBroadcast: 3:55pm Sunday, 18 March & 4:45pm Sunday, 25 March.<br>\nPart 1: Portugal, Italy, Denmark, Ireland, Finland, Monaco, Greece, Switzerland, Israel.<br>\nPart 2: Belgium, France, Germany, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Sweden, Norway, Austria, Spain, United Kingdom.\n\n1980 - Host: Terry Wogan<br>\nBroadcast: 3:25pm Sunday, 6 April & 3:55pm Sunday, 13 April.<br>\nPart 1: Austria, Turkey, Luxembourg, Morocco, Sweden, Switzerland, Finland, Portugal, Spain, Netherlands.<br>\nPart 2: Germany, Italy, Norway, Denmark, Ireland, Greece, France, Belgium, United Kingdom.\n\n1981 - Host: Terry Wogan<br>\nBroadcast: 4:10pm Sunday, 22 March & 3:55pm Sunday, 29 March.<br>\nPart 1: Israel, Austria, Turkey, Luxembourg, Finland, Yugoslavia, Spain, Germany, France, Denmark.<br>\nPart 2: Ireland, Portugal, Netherlands, Switzerland, Norway, Belgium, Greece, Cyprus, Sweden, United Kingdom.\n\n1982 - Host: Terry Wogan<br>\nBroadcast: 3:25pm Sunday, 11 April & 2:45pm Sunday, 18 April.<br>\nPart 1: Reprise of United Kingdom 1981, Portugal, Norway, Turkey, Switzerland, Denmark, Austria, Germany, Netherlands, Ireland, United Kingdom.<br>\nPart 2: Medley Reprise: (Sweden 1974, Ireland 1980 & Israel 1979), Israel, Luxembourg, Cyprus, Finland, Sweden, Yugoslavia, Spain, Belgium, United Kingdom.\n\n1983 - Host: Terry Wogan<br>\nBroadcast: 2:45pm Sunday, 10 April & Sunday, 17 April.<br>\nPart 1: France, Norway, Sweden, Italy, Turkey, Spain, Switzerland, Finland, Greece, Netherlands.<br>\nPart 2: Yugoslavia, Cyprus, Germany, Denmark, Israel, Portugal, Austria, Belgium, Luxembourg, United Kingdom.\n\n1984 - Host: Terry Wogan<br>\nBroadcast: 5:10pm Sunday, 22 April & 3:40pm Sunday, 29 April.<br>\nPart 1: Sweden, Luxembourg, France, Spain, Norway, Cyprus, Belgium, Ireland, Denmark, Netherlands.<br>\nPart 2: Yugoslavia, Austria, Germany, Turkey, Finland, Switzerland, Italy, Portugal, United Kingdom.\n\n1985 - Host: Dave Lee Travis<br>\nBroadcast: 4:00pm Sunday, 21 April & 5:20pm Sunday, 28 April.<br>\nPart 1: Ireland, Finland, Cyprus, Denmark Spain, France, Turkey, Belgium, Portugal, Germany.<br>\nPart 2: Israel, Italy, Norway, Switzerland, Sweden, Luxembourg, Austria, Greece, United Kingdom.\n\n1986 - Host: David Hamilton<br>\nBroadcast: 4:30pm Sunday, 20 April & Sunday, 27 April.<br>\nPart 1: Luxembourg, Yugoslavia, France, Norway, Iceland, Netherlands, Turkey, Spain, Switzerland, Israel.<br>\nPart 2: Ireland, Belgium, Germany, Cyprus, Austria, Sweden, Denmark, Finland, Portugal, United Kingdom.\n\n1987 - Host: Ray Moore<br>\nBroadcast: 4:30pm Sunday, 26 April & 3:55pm Sunday, 3 May.<br>\nPart 1: Norway, Israel, Austria, Iceland, Belgium, Sweden, Italy, Portugal, Spain, Turkey, Greece.<br>\nPart 2: Netherlands, Luxembourg, France, Germany, Cyprus, Finland, Denmark, Ireland, Yugoslavia, Switzerland, United Kingdom.\n\n1988 - Hostess: Gloria Hunniford<br>\nBroadcast: 3:55pm Sunday, 18 April & Sunday, 25 April.<br>\nPart 1: Iceland, Sweden, Finland, Turkey, Spain, Netherlands, Israel, Switzerland, Ireland, Germany.<br>\nPart 2: Austria, Denmark, Greece, Norway, Belgium, Luxembourg, Italy, France, Portugal, Yugoslavia, United Kingdom.\n\n1989 - Host: Ken Bruce<br>\nBroadcast: 4:45pm Sunday, 23 April & Sunday, 30 April.<br>\nPart 1: Italy, Israel, Ireland, Netherlands, Turkey, Belgium, Norway, Portugal, Sweden, Luxembourg, Denmark.<br>\nPart 2: Austria, Finland, France, Spain, Cyprus, Switzerland, Greece, Iceland, Germany, Yugoslavia, United Kingdom.\n\n1990 - Host: Ken Bruce<br>\nBroadcast: 4:30pm Sunday, 22 April & Sunday, 29 April.<br>\nPart 1: Spain, Greece, Belgium, Turkey, Netherlands, Luxembourg, Iceland, Norway, Israel, Denmark, Switzerland.<br>\nPart 2: Germany, France, Yugoslavia, Portugal, Ireland, Sweden, Italy, Austria, Cyprus Finland, United Kingdom.\n\n1991 - Host: Ken Bruce<br>\nBroadcast: 5:10pm Sunday, 21 April & 4:20pm Sunday, 28 April.<br>\nPart 1: Yugoslavia, Iceland, Malta, Greece, Switzerland, Austria, Luxembourg, Sweden, France, Turkey, Ireland.<br>\nPart 2: Portugal, Denmark, Norway, Finland, Israel, Germany, Belgium, Spain, Cyprus, Italy, United Kingdom.\n\n1992 - Hostess: Gloria Hunniford<br>\nBroadcast: 1:20pm Sunday, 26 April & 4:40pm Sunday, 3 May.<br>\nPart 1: Spain, Belgium, Israel, Turkey, Greece, France, Sweden, Portugal, Cyprus, Malta, Iceland.<br>\nPart 2: Finland, Switzerland, Luxembourg, Austria, Ireland, Denmark, Italy, Yugoslavia, Norway, Germany, Netherlands, United Kingdom.\n\n1993 - Hostess: Gloria Hunniford<br>\nBroadcast: 4:40pm Sunday, 2 May & 4:50pm Sunday, 9 May.<br>\nPart 1: Italy, Turkey, Germany, Switzerland, Denmark, Greece, Belgium, Malta, Iceland, Austria, Portugal, France.<br>\nPart 2: Sweden, Ireland, Luxembourg, Slovenia, Finland, Bosnia-Herzegovina, Netherlands, Croatia, Spain, Cyprus, Israel, Norway, United Kingdom.\n\n1994 - Host: Terry Wogan, with analysis by Peter Snow<br>\nBroadcast: 5:00pm Sunday, 17 April & Sunday, 24 April.<br>\nTwo minutes of each song broadcast in \"Tips For Le Top\".<br>\nIncluding \"Eurovision Mastermind\" with four fan contestants. The competition was won by David Bridgman representing United Kingdom. The other contestants were Johnny O'Mahony (Ireland), Marc Dierckx (Belgium) and Henry Klok (Netherlands). Prizes presented by Katie Boyle.<br>\nPart 1: Guest Johnny Logan. Sweden, Finland, Ireland, Cyprus, Iceland, United Kingdom, Croatia, Portugal, Switzerland, Estonia, Romania, Malta.<br>\nPart 2: Guest Jahn Teigen. Netherlands, Germany, Slovakia, Lithuania, Norway, Bosnia-Herzegovina, Greece, Austria, Spain, Hungary, Russia, Poland, France.\n\n2002 - Hostess: Lorraine Kelly<br>\nBroadcast: Monday, 20 May, Tuesday, 21 May, Wednesday, 22 May, Thursday, 23 May & Friday, 24 May.\n\n2003 - Hostess: Lorraine Kelly<br>\nBroadcast: Monday, 19 May, Tuesday, 20 May, Wednesday, 21 May, Thursday, 22 May & Friday, 23 May.\n"}
{"id": "46335828", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46335828", "title": "Evidence Aid", "text": "Evidence Aid\n\nEvidence Aid is an international platform that was formed out of the need to deliver time sensitive access to systematic reviews for use in the event of disasters and other humanitarian emergencies. The method of using systematic reviews (a collection of available evidence on any given topic) is to provide evidence for use by policy makers, clinicians, regulators, and even the general public who benefit when these materials are easy to understand and are accessible. The vision of Evidence Aid is to create and satisfy an increasing demand for evidence to improve the impact of humanitarian aid by stimulating the use of an evidence-based approach. Evidence Aid was founded in 2004. It is currently a project that is housed by the Cochrane Collaboration and Queens University Belfast. Evidence Aid was established by several members of the international Cochrane Collaboration following the 2004 Indian Ocean earthquake and tsunami. Evidence Aid was formed to provide systematic reviews on the effects of interventions and actions of relevance prior to, in the course of and during the aftermath of disasters or other humanitarian emergencies, in order to improve health-related outcomes; their aim is to work with those who need and use this evidence (those preparing for and responding to disasters and humanitarian emergencies – policy-makers, guideline developers, trainers, as well as aid agencies and independent consultants), as well as working with researchers and publishers to facilitate freely accessible materials to meet the information needs for those facing humanitarian emergencies and disasters. Evidence Aid works in collaboration with other organizations including Public Health England; Red Cross Flanders, International Rescue Committee; Centers for Disease Control; Centre for Evidence-Based Medicine; and the University of Oxford.\n\nEvidence Aid’s purpose is to create and satisfy an increasing demand for evidence to improve the impact of humanitarian aid by stimulating the use of an evidence-based approach.\n\nEvidence Aid collates knowledge from systematic reviews to provide a portal of resources for decision-makers. The systematic reviews seek to highlight which interventions work, which do not work, which need more research, and which, no matter how well meaning, might be harmful. Those in need have the right to receive humanitarian aid that has been proven to be effective and not harmful. With an increasing demand for \"value for money\", proof of impact and effectiveness in the provision of humanitarian aid it is essential to ensure that decisions and activities are evidence-based. They keep this information up to date where it can serve as a provision to other agencies, planning groups and first responders in, disasters, humanitarian crises or major healthcare emergencies.\n\nThe objectives of Evidence Aid are to:\n\nEvidence Aid also provides collections of evidence which are topic specific, such as collections for Ebola, the Health of Refugees and Asylum Seekers in Europe, Windstorms and Earthquakes. These collections contain evidence-based guidelines, randomised controlled trials, and other useful information.\n\nEvidence Aid’s office is based with the Centre for Evidence-Based Medicine (Oxford, UK) and it also has a desk in Cochrane (London, UK). The core team of four are based in two different locations. Mike Clarke, who founded the initiative and is now the Chair of the Board of Trustees and Research Director, is a Professor at Queen’s University and also has a position at the Centre for Global Health, Trinity College Dublin. Jeroen Jansen, Evidence Aid’s first Director, is based in London and Oxford overseeing the day-to-day management and activities of Evidence Aid, and Claire Allen, Operations Manager, who works from home in Weymouth, UK, channels the integration with the world in need and brings the project and research together to facilitate evidence-based aid when nations are at their most vulnerable. They are supported by Jane Higgins, part-time Office Administrator, based in Oxford, UK. The impact of Evidence Aid is currently undergoing impact evaluation by Dominic Mellon, a Public Health Specialty Registrar based in Bristol, UK, as part of a PhD research project supervised by Mike Clarke at Queen’s.\n\nIn addition to the core team, Evidence Aid is supported by volunteers who work in various aspects of public health, humanitarian relief, and systematic reviews, where they collaborate from multiple locations around the world. Evidence Aid welcomes volunteers who are self-motivated and who can be flexible about the tasks assigned to them. Evidence Aid, as a Charity, registered with the Charity Commission in the UK also has a Board of Trustees which comprises Professor Mike Clarke (Chair), Dr Phil Davies, Lady Deborah Dixon (Treasurer), Mr Michael Stone, and Mrs Sue Wolstenholme.\n\nEvidence Aid seeks to bring together systematic reviews of relevance to disasters, humanitarian crises, and major healthcare emergencies, in a single online resource where they can be accessed free of charge and are available to anyone. Though information on best practice and low-cost interventions may be known in the medical, scientific or academic communities, this same information may not be available or easily found by communities or countries in crisis. Evidence Aid and its volunteers search the literature identifying relevant systematic reviews and works with others to produce short evidence summaries so that the information can be easily understood and applied by end users, in this case, those who have suffered as a result of disasters or those facing or who are experiencing humanitarian crises. The organization then uploads them to the searchable resource page where they are offered for the use of all. Additional resources are added as the needs are identified. For example, \"Landslides: A draft chapter from the upcoming book Koenig and Schultz’s Disaster Medicine: Comprehensive Principles and Practice, 2nd Edition\" was made available as free access for Evidence Aid.\n\nSeparately, Evidence Aid has partnered with Cochrane to co-ordinate and administer four special collections covering: flooding and poor water sanitation; earthquakes; burns; and posttraumatic stress disorder. The Cochrane Collaboration participated in the production of these collections and they are housed on The Cochrane Library.\n\nEvidence Aid is able to provide a response to disasters and humanitarian emergencies, examples as follows:\n\n\nIn addition to core staff and volunteer support, Evidence Aid has traditionally been financed by philanthropic organisations including, but not restricted to the McCall MacBain Foundation, the C&A FoundatioN, Wiley,and the Unorthodox Prize. Evidence Aid works to provide optimal evidence that is location specific.\n\nEvidence Aid has developed recommendations on evidence in humanitarian assistance which identify critical research needs and prioritizes them.\nEvidence Aid was awarded funds by the International Initiative for Impact Evaluation (3ie) for a scoping study, \"What evidence is available and what is required, in humanitarian assistance?\" in 2014. This report was published to coincide with the anniversary of the 2004 tsunami. The aim of the study was to provide an independent analysis of the evidence base of evaluations in humanitarian assistance. It identifies areas where there are key gaps and where there is a need to prioritize rigorous evidence on issues that are most important and valuable. Evidence Aid worked with 3ie, the Karolinska Institutet, and Monash University to develop a working paper. The first scoping paper is \"What evidence is available and what is required in humanitarian assistance?\"\n\nThe scope of this research goes beyond the question of impact evaluation, key recommendations were made to move the provision of evidence forward in the sector, including:\n\nEvidence Aid works with partners, contributors, and volunteers from multiple nations to achieve its aim of providing people and organizations with the knowledge tools they need to make well-informed decisions and choices in their efforts to improve health, increase the quality of life and reduce human errors in disaster management following disasters, humanitarian crises, and major healthcare emergencies.\n\nEvidence Aid helped set priorities for the Humanitarian Evidence Programme by the identification and prioritization of themes to meet the top 30 research needs for the sector for health outcomes in humanitarian response, this strategy is one way they can work with communities to ascertain what evidence is needed. This exercise is being co-ordinated by the Feinstein International Centre at Tufts University and Oxfam.\n\nIn supporting this mission, Evidence Aid has undertaken the following activities:\n\n\nEvidence Aid has raised the profile of evidence-based actions in the humanitarian sector through international conferences in Oxford in 2011 with the Centre for Evidence Based Medicine, Brussels in 2012 with the Belgian Red Cross–Flanders, at which Herman van Rompuy, the President of the European Council in 2012 said \"Evidence Aid has provided governments, agencies, NGOs, and individuals with the most reliable information in order to take the right choices in difficult circumstances… the work you are doing is important for mankind\", and a priority setting meeting in London in 2013. In addition, and in partnership with the South Asian Cochrane Centre, Evidence Aid offered its third conference in 2014 in Hyderabad, India – fitting since responding to the Indian Ocean tsunami was the inspiration for the founding of Evidence Aid. Evidence Aid works with a number of organizations in different capacities. Caroline Fiennes, a blogger at \"Third Sector\", wrote about using evidence in dealing with humanitarian crises in a post, \"In the decade since the Asian tsunami, we're marshalling the evidence with far better effect.\"\n\nIn low and middle-income countries, research has found that providing additional food to children aged three months to five years may result in modest gains in weight and height, and haemoglobin. Food supplementation resulted in positive impacts on psycho-motor development. However evidence on mental development was mixed. Disasters, war and famine increase risk for food shortages and decreased family incomes both during the disaster and in the aftermath therefore getting food to children and vulnerable populations in safe, effective and efficient ways is an important priority in crisis relief.\n\nMalnutrition contributed to the deaths of more than three million children in 2011. Malnutrition leads to higher infection risks, plus it impairs physical and mental development making the undernourished child more susceptible to chronic disease in adulthood. A Cochrane systematic review pointed out that evidence about the effectiveness of nutrition interventions for young children, is fundamentally important. The Evidence Aid summary points to troubling news about the treatment of children in the home when food is scarce. The review found food was commonly redistributed within the family; when feeding was home-delivered, children benefited from only 36% of the energy given in the supplement. However, when the supplementary food was given in day care centers or feeding compounds, leakage was reduced; children took in 85% of the energy provided in the supplement. Supplementary food was more effective for younger children (under two years old) and for those who were poorer or less well-nourished. Quality supervision within feeding programs was found to result in a greater proportion of required daily food for energy. These discrepancies were less common in high-income countries, where two studies found no benefits for growth.\n\nThe arrival in a host country is not always the refuge of safety the displaced person hopes for. During the passage they face the challenges of substandard shelter and sanitation, and dangerously long waits for food and water through treacherous weather and with disease ridden companions. Many including the children will witness the death, abuse and torture of fellow travelers and family members. This leaves the refugees vulnerable to mental health disorders including PTSD and depression, vaccine-preventable disease, skin disease such as Impetigo, Scabies and Cellulitis, Tuberculosis, snake and insect bite, malaria and they may also be exposed to violence and sexual abuse.\nThis presents numerous challenges for the host countries as the conditions may not be common to their population, the refugees are unable to communicate in the host country language and their customs and culture may be at odds with the values commonly understood and practiced. Many displaced persons fear forced repatriation or detention and they are unable to navigate the bureaucracy around the local or national health care culture. This presents a public health issue as chronic health issues or respiratory infections including TB are untreated. The pregnant women may have had no prenatal care and the conflict and persecution they flee from may take its toll on their mental health. Evidence Aid has made evidence available to assist regulators, clinicians, and organizations to increase the ability of host nations to assist refugees settled or in flight. This initiative is a collaboration between Cochrane, Wiley, Kevin Pottie, Leo Ho and Evidence Aid and incorporates the contributions of many volunteers and experts in health.\n\n\nCochrane does a series of podcasts or migrant health which are useful for health care professionals and the public\n\n\n\nIn September 2013, Evidence Aid received the \"Unorthodox Prize 2013\". It was one of 250 international submissions. Billions of dollars are spent annually on international humanitarian responses, yet aid budgets are not keeping pace with the increasing frequency and severity of disasters. There is also a movement to professionalize the field. Evidence Aid plays a role in this by: conducting systematic evidence reviews to identify optimal interventions and; providing this information in an easily accessible format to decision-makers and front-line relief workers. Evidence Aid bases their resources on epidemiological and evidence-based information (via systematic reviews) to meet the needs of the populations addressed.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10042834", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10042834", "title": "Famine events", "text": "Famine events\n\nFamine events are localized events of voluntary fasting for 30 or 40 hours depending on the region to raise money and awareness for world hunger. These events are usually coordinated by one of various World Vision organizations and are done by youth in church organizations. They have spread internationally, notably the international 30 Hour Famine, also the regional 40 Hour Famine in Australia and New Zealand and the 24 Hour Famine in the United Kingdom. The 30 Hour Famine is the most popular amongst all, spreading across 21 countries. \n\nThe 30 Hour Famine is a World Vision event in 21 countries. It started in 1971 when 17-year-old Ruth Roberts and 14 friends in Calgary, Alberta staged an event in a church basement to see what it was like to be hungry and raise money and awareness for children suffering during a famine. The funds raised went to World Vision.\n\nDavid L. Wylie, a nondenominational youth leader, jump-started the movement in the United States about seventeen years ago as a youth director of Millen Baptist Church in South Georgia. He was looking for a way to stimulate the interest of his 25-member youth group in world hunger issues when he heard the idea of a voluntary hunger strike from World Vision. His group raised $3,000 that year, $5,000 the next and was featured on CNN Headline News and Wylie was nominated by Congressman Lindsey Thomas for a Presidential Point of Light Award.\nWylie was also recognized by the Georgia House of Representatives, the Georgia Senate, and numerous Georgia governors for his efforts to get youth involved in hunger causes by using the 30-Hour Famine program.\n\nThousands of teenagers across the U.S., Canada, and several other countries (including Hong Kong, Taiwan, Malaysia, UK, Singapore and Australia and New Zealand) participate to raise money and then fast for 30 hours. However, individuals can raise money and fast by themselves.\n\nDuring the event, for 30 hours, participants must abstain from eating food, and instead they typically drink water, fruit juices, or other liquids Games, fund raisers, and other events may also take place to help teach and educate the participants and others about world hunger all over the world. It is also a time for education and awareness of world hunger, and an understanding of how people go without food for long periods of time. This, however, does not exclude those unable to fast.\n\nThe 40 Hour Famine is an annual charitable event held by World Vision Australia. The event aims for young Australians to feel empathy for the lack of food which children in third world countries struggle with, and to raise money to help children in these countries. It was started in 1975 in response to the famine in Ethiopia.\n\nParticipants must first raise money through sponsorship from other people. Participants must then abstain from a particular group of items or do/not do something for 40 hours. Some of the famines include not eating food, not using first world technology such as television, refraining from talking, and not using furniture. Some participants create their own famines, such as living in a cardboard box or being blindfolded. The event officially runs from 8pm on Friday to noon on Sunday, usually over a weekend in August. Participants may choose another time to fast if the official famine dates do not suit them.\n\nChildren who attend primary school (usually between the ages of 4 - 12) are encouraged to participate in the 8 hour famine for safety reasons, instead of the usual 40 hour famine.\n\nThe 40 Hour Famine, New Zealand's largest youth fundraiser, is an annual World Vision New Zealand campaign aimed at providing New Zealanders with a unique experience, as a catalyst for fundraising.\n\nThe 40 Hour Famine was launched in 1975 by World Vision. This first 40 Hour Famine, on 15–17 August 1975, had 10,000 participants and raised NZ$265,000.\n\nSince then, the 40 Hour Famine has continued to grow, raising over $2.5 million through 118,000 participants. The 40 Hour Famine, in many New Zealand schools and communities, has become an annual tradition.\n\n24 Hour Famine is also an annual charity event held by World Vision UK which started in 1986. The aim is to raise awareness and money for people stricken by famine around the world. Participants can choose to go without food for the duration, or other activities such as computer games or talking. In 2008, the official Cause was the 'nowhere children' in Chennai. Age restrictions apply: 0–13 years are only allowed to fast for 20 hours whilst 14+ years can fast for up to 40 hours.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "312484", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=312484", "title": "George H. Gay Jr.", "text": "George H. Gay Jr.\n\nEnsign (later Lieutenant Commander) George Henry Gay Jr. (March 8, 1917 – October 21, 1994) was a TBD Devastator pilot in United States Navy Torpedo Squadron 8 operating from the USS \"Hornet\" (CV-8) in the Pacific Theater of Operations during World War II. Of the 30 VT-8 aircrew from \"Hornet\" that participated in the pivotal Battle of Midway, Ensign Gay was the sole survivor.\n\nGeorge Henry Gay Jr. was born on March 8, 1917 in Waco, Texas. He attended school in both Austin and Houston before enrolling at the Agricultural and Mechanical College of Texas (now Texas A&M University).\n\nLike millions of Americans at the time, Gay chose to sign up for the coming war, leaving Texas A&M University. He tried to join the Army Air Corps as a pilot but was rejected for medical reasons. He then tried the United States Navy in early 1941. Gay completed flight training and was commissioned as an Ensign in Sept 1941.\n\nHe joined the newly formed Torpedo Squadron 8 under Lieutenant Commander John Charles Waldron. He and his unit were aboard the \"USS Hornet\" in April 1942 when Lieutenant Colonel Jimmy Doolittle launched his raid on Tokyo. One week later, the \"Hornet\" arrived at Pearl Harbor to join the \"USS Enterprise\" as part of Task Force 16 during the Battle of Midway.\n\nDuring the Battle of Midway Gay was the first of his squadron to take off from \"Hornet\" on June 4, 1942. Gay's unit found the Japanese carrier fleet and launched an attack without any fighter plane support. Although he was wounded and his radioman/gunner, Robert K. Huntington, was dying, Gay completed his torpedo attack on the Japanese aircraft carrier \"Soryu\", but the \"Soryu\" evaded his torpedo. Rather than banking away from the ship and presenting a larger target to its anti-aircraft gunners, Gay continued in toward the carrier at low altitude. He then brought his Devastator into a tight turn as he approached the carrier's island, and flew aft along the flight deck's length, thus evading anti-aircraft fire. He later stated he had a \"split second\" thought of crashing into the Japanese aircraft he saw being serviced on the flight deck.\n\nHis plane still in relatively good condition, he decided to make for the \"Hornet\" after clearing the Japanese carrier. However, five A6M \"Zero\"s brought his aircraft down in a hail of machine gun and cannon fire, killing his rear gunner. Exiting his aircraft, and floating in the ocean, he hid under his seat cushion to avoid Japanese strafing attacks and witnessed the subsequent dive bombing attacks and sinking of three of the four Japanese aircraft carriers present.\n\nAfter dark, Gay felt it was safe to inflate his life raft. He was rescued by a Navy PBY after spending over 30 hours in the water. Gay was later flown to the USS \"Vincennes\" (arriving June 28, 1942), before being transferred home. Of the squadron's thirty pilots and radiomen, Gay was the only survivor. Gay met with Admiral Nimitz and confirmed the destruction of three Japanese carriers that he had witnessed – the \"Akagi\", \"Kaga\" and \"Soryu\". He was featured in the August 31, 1942 issue of \"Life\" magazine.\n\nFollowing Midway, Gay took part in the Guadalcanal Campaign with Torpedo Squadron 11, and he later became a Navy flight instructor. He was awarded the Navy Cross, Purple Heart and Presidential Unit Citation for his actions in combat at Midway. He was also later awarded the Air Medal.\n\nAfter World War II, Gay spent over 30 years as a pilot for Trans-World Airlines. He often lectured on his Midway experiences, and authored the book \"Sole Survivor\". In 1975, he served as a consultant on the set for the movie \"Midway\", in which Kevin Dobson played Gay. He attended the decommissioning ceremony of the on April 11, 1992.\n\nIn May 1994 Gay was named to the Georgia Aviation Hall of Fame. On October 21, 1994, Gay died of a heart attack at a hospital in Marietta, Georgia. His body was cremated and his ashes spread at the place that his squadron had launched its ill-fated attack.\n\n"}
{"id": "6638260", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6638260", "title": "Hurricane party", "text": "Hurricane party\n\nA hurricane party is a social event held by people in the coastal United States who live in hurricane alley between Maine and Texas and is common in the Southeast. The event is held during a hurricane. However the guests are typically allowed to stay with the host for 3–5 days (weather permitting) and guests, in return, bring hurricane supplies such as radios, first aid supplies, food, etc. The infamous Hurricane Camille Hurricane Party did not occur, but 8 people from the apartments died and the entire building was destroyed.\n\nHurricane parties were formed by people living in the southern hurricane areas of the United States, especially in Florida. Events are held by people who, cannot or choose not to evacuate during a hurricane warning, or when no evacuation orders are issued. Hosts may also lack hurricane supplies, therefore they invite others to stay with them so as to share supplies and company. However, these events are usually more centered on the people and the socialness of the event, yet they are not necessarily done with diversion as an objective.\n\nAnother rationale for hosting hurricane parties is the expectation that power service may be lost for days or even weeks. As a result most perishable items, particularly frozen meats, will surely be wasted after the storm. In order to make good use of these items, grilling is an important aspect of many hurricane parties, as a way of \"cleaning out the freezer.\"\n\nHurricane parties are designed for many individuals to pool resources with the expectation that there will be no electricity and no open stores or restaurants for several days. Following hurricanes, there is generally a curfew set by local police to reduce looting and crime when resources are already stretched thin. The hurricane party means that people don't have to worry about traveling when roads and transportation will be impassable. The hurricane party frequently aims to go through perishable food, and thus grilling is a common activity since grills can be used regardless of the status of electric utilities. \n\nAlcohol is almost always in good supply at a hurricane party, but guests are advised to pace themselves since these parties are often multi-day events. Officials don't recommend drinking alcohol because people need to be alert during a disaster.\n\n"}
{"id": "2843180", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2843180", "title": "Junior Eurovision Song Contest 2006", "text": "Junior Eurovision Song Contest 2006\n\nThe Junior Eurovision Song Contest 2006 was the fourth edition of the Junior Eurovision Song Contest for young singers aged 8 to 15. On 2 December 2006, the contest was broadcast live from Bucharest, Romania making it the second time the contest had been held in a capital city. It was organised by the Romanian national broadcaster, Romanian Television (TVR), in co-operation with the European Broadcasting Union (EBU). TVR won the rights of hosting the contest over AVRO of the Netherlands (who hosted the next contest). Croatia also expressed an interest in hosting this contest.\n\nThe show was broadcast live in the competing countries, as well as Andorra, Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Australian television channel Special Broadcasting Service (SBS) that acquired the rights for broadcasting the show, which was broadcast on 1 January 2007. This was Serbia's first Eurovision event as an Independent nation. The contest was won by The Tolmachevy Twins from Russia with the song \"Vesenniy Jazz\".\n\nPolyvalent Hall from Bucharest () is a multi-purpose hall in Bucharest, Romania, located in the Tineretului Park. It is used for concerts, indoor sports such as tennis, gymnastics, dance, handball, volleyball, basketball, weightlifting, combat sports and professional wrestling. The hall was opened in 1974 but has since been renovated. It has a maximum seating capacity of 12,000 for concerts and 6,000 for handball.\n\nOriginally 16 countries had initially signed up for the contest but one unspecified country later dropped out. Radio télévision belge de la communauté française (RTBF) of the French-speaking Wallonia in Belgium left the contest this year after co-hosting the previous edition with Flemish broadcaster Vlaamse Radio- en Televisieomroep (VRT). They claimed that continuing with the contest was not in their interests financially. The viewing figures for the 2005 contest for RTBF were also low. Belgium continued to be represented at the contest by VRT.\n\nHrvatska radiotelevizija (HRT) of Croatia announced that they would withdraw from the 2007 edition and future contests, as otherwise they would have faced a fine from the EBU as they did not screen this year's event live and did not broadcast it on a nationally available network. Broadcasters previously had to screen the event live and on a channel available to the majority of the public however this rule was scrapped in 2007. Croatia withdrew the following year and would not participate for seven years until they returned in 2014.\n\nThe Scandinavian broadcasters; DR of Denmark, Norsk rikskringkasting (NRK) of Norway and Sveriges Television (SVT) of Sweden; decided to withdraw from the contest for various reasons, one being that the content put too much pressure on the participating children. Instead they staged a solely Scandinavian contest called Melodi Grand Prix Nordic in Stockholm, as they did in 2002. However, Sweden did participate, which was quite unexpected since they placed 15th all earlier years, with commercial broadcaster TV4 supplying Sweden's entry. This meant that Sweden participated in both contests.\n\nITV, the United Kingdom broadcaster of the contest from 2003 up until and including 2005, withdrew from the contest, after they were originally given the rights to broadcast it when the BBC declined the offer. In 2003, they broadcast the contest on main channel ITV, relegating it to ITV2 for the next two years due to bad viewer ratings, before their complete withdrawal in 2006.\n\nMonaco had stated an interest to take part in the contest, however did not take part in the contest. Latvia also withdrew, mainly due to financial reasons. However they briefly returned to the contest in 2010 and 2011.\n\nSerbia and Montenegro participated in the 2005 contest, but since then, Montenegro voted for independence. The EBU gave their national broadcaster, Radio televizija Crne Gore (RTCG), extra time to decide whether or not to participate, but they finally declined the invitation. It wasn't until 2014 that they would start participating in the Junior Eurovision.\n\nNotes\n\nBelow is a summary of all 12 points received:\n\n\nJunior Eurovision Song Contest: Bucharest 2006, is a compilation album put together by the European Broadcasting Union, and was released by Universal Music Group on November 2006. The album features all the songs from the 2006 contest, along with karaoke versions.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20359110", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20359110", "title": "Junior Eurovision Song Contest 2009", "text": "Junior Eurovision Song Contest 2009\n\nThe Junior Eurovision Song Contest 2009 was the seventh edition of Junior Eurovision Song Contest and took place in Kiev, Ukraine. It was scheduled for 21 November. 13 countries were confirmed by the European Broadcasting Union (EBU) to compete in the Contest. The contest was won by Ralf Mackenbach for the Netherlands with the song \"Click Clack\". At the age of 14, he is the oldest person to win the Junior Eurovision Song Contest in its seven-year history. He was joined by Italy's Vincenzo Cantiello who won the 2014 contest also at the age of 14. Luara Hayrapetyan achieved Armenia another second place. Ekaterina Ryabova also took second place for Russia.\n\nThe European Broadcasting Union (EBU) invited broadcasters to bid for the rights to host the Junior Eurovision Song Contest 2009; three bids were received from Belarus, Serbia, and Ukraine. TV4 of Sweden had originally sent in a bid during summer 2007, but soon withdrew its bid after deciding to completely withdraw from the contest. After deliberations by the EBU, National Television Company of Ukraine was granted the rights to the 2009 contest and would host it in Kiev. Ukraine also hosted the Eurovision Song Contest 2005 at the same venue.\n\nOn 12 November 2009 Ukrainian Deputy Prime Minister Ivan Vasiunyk declared that the contest would not be postponed; (earlier) Party of Regions member of parliament Hanna Herman had called on Prime Minister Yulia Tymoshenko to cancel the song contest because of the 2009 flu pandemic in Ukraine.\n\nBoth Prime Minister Tymoshenko and President of Ukraine Viktor Yushchenko were present during the final; Tymoshenko was also present and speeched during the opening ceremony on 16 November 2009.\n\nLogo of the contest titled \"Tree of life\" is based on the artwork \"Sunflower of life\" by Maria Primachenko, a well known Ukrainian folk art painter. Creative design of the show was based on the logo of the contest, works and ideas of Primachenko as well as on the concept of the show, titled \"For the joy of people\".\n\nThe EBU announced the complete list of participating countries in the 2009 Contest on 8 June 2009. 13 countries competed in the contest: Armenia, Belarus, Belgium, Cyprus, Georgia, Macedonia, Malta, Netherlands, Romania, Russia, Serbia, Sweden and Ukraine. Sweden returned after missing the contest, while Bulgaria, Greece and Lithuania withdrew from the Contest.\n\nEach country decided their votes through a 50% jury and 50% televoting system which decided their top ten songs using the points 12, 10, 8, 7, 6, 5, 4, 3, 2, and 1. Since Sweden broadcast the show not until the morning after, their points were made up solely by their national jury.\n\n\nBelow is a summary of all 12 points received:\n\nA live broadcast of the Junior Eurovision Song Contest was available worldwide via satellite through European streams such as TVRi, RIK Sat, RTS Sat and MKTV Sat. The official Junior Eurovision Song Contest website also provided a live stream without commentary via the peer to peer medium Octoshape.\n\n\nJunior Eurovision Song Contest 2009: Kyiv, is a compilation album put together by the European Broadcasting Union, and was released by Universal Music Group on 21 November 2009. The album features all the songs from the 2009 contest, along with karaoke versions.\n\n"}
{"id": "35180440", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35180440", "title": "Karneval der Kulturen", "text": "Karneval der Kulturen\n\nKarneval der Kulturen (Carnival of Cultures) is a multicultural festival in Kreuzberg, Berlin, celebrated annually around Pentecost weekend since 1996. It is organised by the Werkstatt der Kulturen. The processions, theatre performances, and music events celebrate peace, tolerance, and multiculturalism.\n\nThe Werkstatt der Kulturen was founded in October 1993 in Neukölln, Berlin, patronised by the Berlin Senate. The first Karneval der Kulturen took place on 15 and 16 May 1996 around Ascension Thursday. It was inspired by other European carnevals such as the Notting Hill Carnival in London and the Zomercarnaval in Rotterdam.\n\nThe Karneval der Kulturen then grew to a four-day festival with numerous musical and theatrical performances. The number of visitors grew from 50,000 in 1996 to 300,000 in 1997, 1 million in 2000, to more than one million in 2018. The number of participants also grew from 2,200 to more than 4,000, organised into 66 procession group (2018). These procession groups come from all over Germany, but also include South American and African groups.\n\n"}
{"id": "1793081", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1793081", "title": "Kentucky Derby Festival", "text": "Kentucky Derby Festival\n\nThe Kentucky Derby Festival is an annual festival held in Louisville, Kentucky during the two weeks preceding the first Saturday in May, the day of the Kentucky Derby. The festival, Kentucky's largest single annual event, first ran from 1935 to 1937, and restarted in 1956 and includes:\n\nThe Kentucky Derby Festival Association started the first week-long festival in 1935, including a parade, a riverfront regatta and an orchestral concert. The first director was Olympic gold medalist Arnold Jackson. In 1937, a Derby Festival king and queen were crowned, marking the start of this tradition. After the floods of 1937, the festival was discontinued and it was not until 1956 when the modern-day Kentucky Derby Festival was reborn.\n\nEvents vary from year to year but always include numerous athletic events, including the miniMarathon and Marathon; concerts; fashion shows; wine tastings; luncheons and private parties ranging from backyard barbecues to lavish Derby Eve balls attended by entertainment stars, famed athletes and other persons of note.\n\nThe Royal Court is among the oldest traditions of the Kentucky Derby Festival tradition, dating back to the 1950s by The Fillies, Inc. The Royal Court consists of a group of five young women chosen to preside over events related to the Kentucky Derby. These women officially represent both the Derby Festival and the city of Louisville. In January, a court of Derby Princesses is selected from a pool of more than 1000 applicants. Thirty finalists are selected and the pool is then reduced to five young women who make up the court. Criteria for the selection of the court members includes knowledge of the Derby Festival, poise, intelligence, personality, academic excellence and campus/community involvement.\n\nThe court attends nearly 70 events during the two-week period leading up to the Kentucky Derby. The queen is selected by a spin of the wheel at the Annual Fillies Derby Ball. The festival saw this method of queen selections as the most fair way to select from their court and the tradition continues today. Each member of the court is awarded a $2000 scholarship, an entire wardrobe for the festival, VIP access to all events and a chauffeur for the entire two weeks of the official Kentucky Derby Festival.\n\nThe festival's first major event is Thunder Over Louisville. Thunder kicks off with a day-long air show ranked as fifth-largest in the United States and the largest fireworks display in North America. The approximately 30 minute firework display begins at nightfall. Thunder Over Louisville's fireworks have been designed and performed by Zambelli Fireworks International since 1991.\n\nDuring the festival, much of Waterfront Park is billed as \"Fest-aVille\". It hosts a number of events, including the Chow Wagon, rides, and concerts.\n\nEach year, an official Derby Festival poster is unveiled and prints are sold to help finance festival events. Artists and photographers who have produced the prized posters include Peter Max and Michael Schwab.\n\nThe first event held by KDF was the 1956 Pegasus Parade. The parade is held annually on the Thursday before Derby.\n\nVarious sport competitions are held as part of the Festival. From 1973 to 2017, the Festival hosted the Kentucky Derby Festival Basketball Classic. Since 1974, a pro-am golf tournament has been held.\n\nA number of races take place in the festival. The Kentucky Derby Festival miniMarathon and Marathon occur the Saturday before the Kentucky Derby; USA Track and Field named the miniMarathon among the nation's top 50 races. The mini has been held since 1974. That same Saturday is typically also when the Great Balloon Race is held, the culmination of the hot air balloon-themed BalloonFest.\n\nRecognition is given to Louisville's restaurant employees with the Run for the Rosé, where waiters and waitresses run an obstacle course while carrying trays of glasses filled with White Zinfandel Wine. Servers finishing with the best time and most wine remaining in the glasses win prizes.\n\nFor the annual bed races, businesses create themed mobile beds that are paraded before being race on an indoor track with costumed employees. The Great Steamboat Race usually takes place in the week before Derby, where the Belle of Louisville typically takes on at least one challenger.\n\nSince 1997, a spelling bee has been held for the festival.\n\nSince 1973, KDF has sold a plastic pin for the Kentucky Derby featuring a pegasus. The pin is used as proof of purchase for admission to a number of the KDF events.\n\nA controversial aspect of the Derby Festival is \"Derby Cruising.\" Though it is not an official or licensed event during Derby Festival, it takes place in the historically black areas of West Broadway on Derby day and the Friday before it. Cruising consists of motorcycles and cars (many elaborately modified) driving slowly down Broadway, pedestrians crowding the sidewalks, and several blocks closed for a festival with rides and street vendors. The gridlock associated with cruising made it difficult for police to respond to instances of violence during 2005 Derby cruising. In 2006, police made an effort to stop cruising, shutting down Broadway except to emergency vehicles, which resulted in suggestions of racial profiling and much public debate about the legitimacy of Broadway cruising as a free alternative to other festivities.\n\nIn 2007, police announced similar plans, although slightly more of Broadway was to remain open, including access to Shawnee Park. The 2007 plan sparked a lawsuit by business owners and a civil rights foundation, claiming the shutdown of Broadway during Derby week violated their constitutional rights and cost them hundreds of thousands of dollars in business. A federal judge allowed the plans to proceed, citing concerns about \"public safety and the free flow of traffic\".\n\nIn 2008, police again banned cruising, but with a new plan allowing traffic to flow but to have a high number of officers on hand to enforce the city's noise and cruising ordinances, the latter of which prevents vehicles from blocking a roadway. Police reported that arrests were down from 2007, although they did shut down a 10-block portion of Broadway for a short time on Derby evening after gridlock developed.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18866", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18866", "title": "Macbeth", "text": "Macbeth\n\nMacbeth (; full title The Tragedy of Macbeth) is a tragedy by William Shakespeare; it is thought to have been first performed in 1606. It dramatises the damaging physical and psychological effects of political ambition on those who seek power for its own sake. Of all the plays that Shakespeare wrote during the reign of James I, who was patron of Shakespeare's acting company, \"Macbeth\" most clearly reflects the playwright's relationship with his sovereign. It was first published in the Folio of 1623, possibly from a prompt book, and is Shakespeare's shortest tragedy.\n\nA brave Scottish general named Macbeth receives a prophecy from a trio of witches that one day he will become King of Scotland. Consumed by ambition and spurred to action by his wife, Macbeth murders King Duncan and takes the Scottish throne for himself. He is then wracked with guilt and paranoia. Forced to commit more and more murders to protect himself from enmity and suspicion, he soon becomes a tyrannical ruler. The bloodbath and consequent civil war swiftly take Macbeth and Lady Macbeth into the realms of madness and death.\n\nShakespeare's source for the story is the account of Macbeth, King of Scotland; Macduff; and Duncan in \"Holinshed's Chronicles\" (1587), a history of England, Scotland, and Ireland familiar to Shakespeare and his contemporaries, although the events in the play differ extensively from the history of the real Macbeth. The events of the tragedy are usually associated with the execution of Henry Garnet for complicity in the Gunpowder Plot of 1605.\n\nIn the backstage world of theatre, some believe that the play is cursed, and will not mention its title aloud, referring to it instead as \"The Scottish Play\". Over the course of many centuries, the play has attracted some of the most renowned actors to the roles of Macbeth and Lady Macbeth. It has been adapted to film, television, opera, novels, comics, and other media.\n\nThe play opens amid thunder and lightning, and the Three Witches decide that their next meeting will be with Macbeth. In the following scene, a wounded sergeant reports to King Duncan of Scotland that his generals Macbeth, who is the Thane of Glamis, and Banquo have just defeated the allied forces of Norway and Ireland, who were led by the traitorous Macdonwald, and the Thane of Cawdor. Macbeth, the King's kinsman, is praised for his bravery and fighting prowess.\n\nIn the following scene, Macbeth and Banquo discuss the weather and their victory. As they wander onto a heath, the Three Witches enter and greet them with prophecies. Though Banquo challenges them first, they address Macbeth, hailing him as \"Thane of Glamis,\" \"Thane of Cawdor,\" and that he will \"be King hereafter.\" Macbeth appears to be stunned to silence. When Banquo asks of his own fortunes, the witches respond paradoxically, saying that he will be less than Macbeth, yet happier, less successful, yet more. He will father a line of kings, though he himself will not be one. While the two men wonder at these pronouncements, the witches vanish, and another thane, Ross, arrives and informs Macbeth of his newly bestowed title: Thane of Cawdor. The first prophecy is thus fulfilled, and Macbeth, previously sceptical, immediately begins to harbour ambitions of becoming king.\n\nKing Duncan welcomes and praises Macbeth and Banquo, and declares that he will spend the night at Macbeth's castle at Inverness; he also names his son Malcolm as his heir. Macbeth sends a message ahead to his wife, Lady Macbeth, telling her about the witches' prophecies. Lady Macbeth suffers none of her husband's uncertainty and wishes him to murder Duncan in order to obtain kingship. When Macbeth arrives at Inverness, she overrides all of her husband's objections by challenging his manhood and successfully persuades him to kill the king that very night. He and Lady Macbeth plan to get Duncan's two chamberlains drunk so that they will black out; the next morning they will blame the chamberlains for the murder. They will be defenceless as they will remember nothing.\n\nWhile Duncan is asleep, Macbeth stabs him, despite his doubts and a number of supernatural portents, including a hallucination of a bloody dagger. He is so shaken that Lady Macbeth has to take charge. In accordance with her plan, she frames Duncan's sleeping servants for the murder by placing bloody daggers on them. Early the next morning, Lennox, a Scottish nobleman, and Macduff, the loyal Thane of Fife, arrive. A porter opens the gate and Macbeth leads them to the king's chamber, where Macduff discovers Duncan's body. Macbeth murders the guards to prevent them from professing their innocence, but claims he did so in a fit of anger over their misdeeds. Duncan's sons Malcolm and Donalbain flee to England and Ireland, respectively, fearing that whoever killed Duncan desires their demise as well. The rightful heirs' flight makes them suspects and Macbeth assumes the throne as the new King of Scotland as a kinsman of the dead king. Banquo reveals this to the audience, and while sceptical of the new King Macbeth, he remembers the witches' prophecy about how his own descendants would inherit the throne; this makes him suspicious of Macbeth.\n\nDespite his success, Macbeth, also aware of this part of the prophecy, remains uneasy. Macbeth invites Banquo to a royal banquet, where he discovers that Banquo and his young son, Fleance, will be riding out that night. Fearing Banquo's suspicions, Macbeth arranges to have him murdered, by hiring two men to kill them, later sending a Third Murderer. The assassins succeed in killing Banquo, but Fleance escapes. Macbeth becomes furious: he fears that his power remains insecure as long as an heir of Banquo remains alive.\n\nAt a banquet, Macbeth invites his lords and Lady Macbeth to a night of drinking and merriment. Banquo's ghost enters and sits in Macbeth's place. Macbeth raves fearfully, startling his guests, as the ghost is only visible to him. The others panic at the sight of Macbeth raging at an empty chair, until a desperate Lady Macbeth tells them that her husband is merely afflicted with a familiar and harmless malady. The ghost departs and returns once more, causing the same riotous anger and fear in Macbeth. This time, Lady Macbeth tells the lords to leave, and they do so.\n\nMacbeth, disturbed, visits the three witches once more and asks them to reveal the truth of their prophecies to him. To answer his questions, they summon horrible apparitions, each of which offers predictions and further prophecies to put Macbeth's fears at rest. First, they conjure an armoured head, which tells him to beware of Macduff (IV.i.72). Second, a bloody child tells him that no one born of a woman will be able to harm him. Thirdly, a crowned child holding a tree states that Macbeth will be safe until Great Birnam Wood comes to Dunsinane Hill. Macbeth is relieved and feels secure because he knows that all men are born of women and forests cannot move. Macbeth also asks whether Banquo's sons will ever reign in Scotland: the witches conjure a procession of eight crowned kings, all similar in appearance to Banquo, and the last carrying a mirror that reflects even more kings. Macbeth realises that these are all Banquo's descendants having acquired kingship in numerous countries. After the witches perform a mad dance and leave, Lennox enters and tells Macbeth that Macduff has fled to England. Macbeth orders Macduff's castle be seized, and, most cruelly, sends murderers to slaughter Macduff, as well as Macduff's wife and children. Although Macduff is no longer in the castle, everyone in Macduff's castle is put to death, including Lady Macduff and their young son.\n\nMeanwhile, Lady Macbeth becomes racked with guilt from the crimes she and her husband have committed. At night, in the king's palace at Dunsinane, a doctor and a gentlewoman discuss Lady Macbeth's strange habit of sleepwalking. Suddenly, Lady Macbeth enters in a trance with a candle in her hand. Bemoaning the murders of Duncan, Lady Macduff, and Banquo, she tries to wash off imaginary bloodstains from her hands, all the while speaking of the terrible things she knows she pressed her husband to do. She leaves, and the doctor and gentlewoman marvel at her descent into madness. Her belief that nothing can wash away the blood on her hands is an ironic reversal of her earlier claim to Macbeth that \"[a] little water clears us of this deed\" (II.ii.66).\n\nIn England, Macduff is informed by Ross that his \"castle is surprised; wife and babes / Savagely slaughter'd\" (IV.iii.204–05). When this news of his family's execution reaches him, Macduff is stricken with grief and vows revenge. Prince Malcolm, Duncan's son, has succeeded in raising an army in England, and Macduff joins him as he rides to Scotland to challenge Macbeth's forces. The invasion has the support of the Scottish nobles, who are appalled and frightened by Macbeth's tyrannical and murderous behaviour. Malcolm leads an army, along with Macduff and Englishmen Siward (the Elder), the Earl of Northumberland, against Dunsinane Castle. While encamped in Birnam Wood, the soldiers are ordered to cut down and carry tree limbs to camouflage their numbers.\n\nBefore Macbeth's opponents arrive, he receives news that Lady Macbeth has killed herself, causing him to sink into a deep and pessimistic despair and deliver his \"Tomorrow, and tomorrow, and tomorrow\" soliloquy (V.v.17–28). Though he reflects on the brevity and meaninglessness of life, he nevertheless awaits the English and fortifies Dunsinane. He is certain that the witches' prophecies guarantee his invincibility, but is struck with fear when he learns that the English army is advancing on Dunsinane shielded with boughs cut from Birnam Wood, in apparent fulfillment of one of the prophecies.\n\nA battle culminates in Macduff's confrontation with Macbeth, who kills Young Siward in combat. The English forces overwhelm his army and castle. Macbeth boasts that he has no reason to fear Macduff, for he cannot be killed by any man born of woman. Macduff declares that he was \"from his mother's womb / Untimely ripp'd\" (V.8.15–16), (i.e., born by Caesarean section) and is not \"of woman born\" (an example of a literary quibble), fulfilling the second prophecy. Macbeth realises too late that he has misinterpreted the witches' words. Though he realises that he is doomed, he continues to fight. Macduff kills and beheads him, thus fulfilling the remaining prophecy.\n\nMacduff carries Macbeth's head onstage and Malcolm discusses how order has been restored. His last reference to Lady Macbeth, however, reveals \"'tis thought, by self and violent hands / Took off her life\" (V.ix.71–72), but the method of her suicide is undisclosed. Malcolm, now the King of Scotland, declares his benevolent intentions for the country and invites all to see him crowned at Scone.\n\nAlthough Malcolm, and not Fleance, is placed on the throne, the witches' prophecy concerning Banquo (\"Thou shalt get kings\") was known to the audience of Shakespeare's time to be true: James VI of Scotland (later also James I of England) was supposedly a descendant of Banquo.\n\nA principal source comes from the \"Daemonologie\" of King James published in 1597 which included a news pamphlet titled \"Newes from Scotland\" that detailed the famous North Berwick Witch Trials of 1590. The publication of \"Daemonologie\" came just a few years before the tragedy of \"Macbeth\" with the themes and setting in a direct and comparative contrast with King James' personal experiences with witchcraft. Not only had this trial taken place in Scotland, the witches involved were recorded to have also conducted rituals with the same mannerisms as the three witches. One of the evidenced passages is referenced when the witches involved in the trial confessed to attempt the use of witchcraft to raise a tempest and sabotage the very boat King James and his queen were on board during their return trip from Denmark. This was significant as one ship sailing with King James' fleet actually sank in the storm. The following quote from \"Macbeth\" is one such reference:\n\n\"purposely to be cassin into the sea to raise winds for destruction of ships.\"\n\n\"Macbeth\" has been compared to Shakespeare's \"Antony and Cleopatra.\" Both Antony and Macbeth as characters seek a new world, even at the cost of the old one. Both are fighting for a throne and have a 'nemesis' to face to achieve that throne. For Antony, the nemesis is Octavius; for Macbeth, it is Banquo. At one point Macbeth even compares himself to Antony, saying \"under Banquo / My Genius is rebuk'd, as it is said / Mark Antony's was by Caesar.\" Lastly, both plays contain powerful and manipulative female figures: Cleopatra and Lady Macbeth.\n\nShakespeare borrowed the story from several tales in \"Holinshed's Chronicles\", a popular history of the British Isles well known to Shakespeare and his contemporaries. In \"Chronicles\", a man named Donwald finds several of his family put to death by his king, King Duff, for dealing with witches. After being pressured by his wife, he and four of his servants kill the King in his own house. In \"Chronicles\", Macbeth is portrayed as struggling to support the kingdom in the face of King Duncan's ineptitude. He and Banquo meet the three witches, who make exactly the same prophecies as in Shakespeare's version. Macbeth and Banquo then together plot the murder of Duncan, at Lady Macbeth's urging. Macbeth has a long, ten-year reign before eventually being overthrown by Macduff and Malcolm. The parallels between the two versions are clear. However, some scholars think that George Buchanan's \"Rerum Scoticarum Historia\" matches Shakespeare's version more closely. Buchanan's work was available in Latin in Shakespeare's day.\n\nNo medieval account of the reign of Macbeth mentions the Weird Sisters, Banquo or Lady Macbeth, and with the exception of the latter none actually existed. The characters of Banquo, the Weird Sisters and Lady Macbeth were first mentioned in 1527 by a Scottish historian Hector Boece in his book \"Historia Gentis Scotorum\" (\"History of the Scottish People\") who wanted to denigrate Macbeth in order to strengthen the claim of the House of Stewart to the Scottish throne. Boece portrayed Banquo as an ancestor of the Stewart kings of Scotland, adding in a \"prophecy\" that the descendants of Banquo would be the rightful kings of Scotland while the Weird Sisters served to give a picture of King Macbeth as gaining the throne via dark supernatural forces. Macbeth did have a wife, but it not clear if she was as power-hungry and ambitious as Boece portrayed her, which served his purpose of having even Macbeth realise he lacked a proper claim to the throne, and only took it at the urging of his wife. Holinshed accepted Boece's version of Macbeth's reign at face value and included it in his \"Chronicles\". Shakespeare saw the dramatic possibilities in the story as related by Holinshed, and used it as the basis for the play.\n\nNo other version of the story has Macbeth kill the king in Macbeth's own castle. Scholars have seen this change of Shakespeare's as adding to the darkness of Macbeth's crime as the worst violation of hospitality. Versions of the story that were common at the time had Duncan being killed in an ambush at Inverness, not in a castle. Shakespeare conflated the story of Donwald and King Duff in what was a significant change to the story.\n\nShakespeare made another important change. In \"Chronicles\", Banquo is an accomplice in Macbeth's murder of King Duncan, and plays an important part in ensuring that Macbeth, not Malcolm, takes the throne in the coup that follows. In Shakespeare's day, Banquo was thought to be an ancestor of the Stuart King James I. (In the 19th century it was established that Banquo is an unhistorical character, the Stuarts are actually descended from a Breton family which migrated to Scotland slightly later than Macbeth's time.) The Banquo portrayed in earlier sources is significantly different from the Banquo created by Shakespeare. Critics have proposed several reasons for this change. First, to portray the king's ancestor as a murderer would have been risky. Other authors of the time who wrote about Banquo, such as Jean de Schelandre in his \"Stuartide\", also changed history by portraying Banquo as a noble man, not a murderer, probably for the same reasons. Second, Shakespeare may have altered Banquo's character simply because there was no dramatic need for another accomplice to the murder; there was, however, a need to give a dramatic contrast to Macbeth—a role which many scholars argue is filled by Banquo.\n\nOther scholars maintain that a strong argument can be made for associating the tragedy with the Gunpowder Plot of 1605. As presented by Harold Bloom in 2008: \"[S]cholars cite the existence of several topical references in \"Macbeth\" to the events of that year, namely the execution of the Father Henry Garnett for his alleged complicity in the Gunpowder Plot of 1605, as referenced in the porter's scene.\" Those arrested for their role in the Gunpowder Plot refused to give direct answers to the questions posed to them by their interrogators, which reflected the influence of the Jesuit practice of equivocation. Shakespeare by having Macbeth say that demons \"palter...in a double sense\" and \"keep the promise to our ear/And break it to our hope\" confirmed James's belief that equivocation was a \"wicked\" practice, which reflected in turn the \"wickedness\" of the Catholic Church. Garnett had in his possession \"A Treatise on Equivocation\", and in the play the Weird Sisters often engage in equivocation, for instance telling Macbeth that he could never be overthrown until \"Great Birnan wood to high Dunsinane hill/Shall Come\". Macbeth interprets the prophecy as meaning never, but in fact, the Three Sisters refer only to branches of the trees of Great Birnan coming to Dunsinane hill.\n\n\"Macbeth\" cannot be dated precisely but it is usually dated as contemporaneous to the other canonical tragedies (\"King Lear\", \"Hamlet\", and \"Othello\"). Some scholars have placed the original writing of the play as early as 1599. As the play is widely seen to celebrate King James' ancestors and the Stuart accession to the throne in 1603 (James believed himself to be descended from Banquo), most scholars believe that the play is unlikely to have been composed earlier than 1603 and suggest that the parade of eight kings—which the witches show Macbeth in a vision in Act IV—is a compliment to King James. Many scholars think the play was written in 1606 in the aftermath of the Gunpowder Plot because of possible internal allusions to the 1605 plot and its ensuing trials. In fact, there are a great number of allusions and possible pieces of evidence alluding to the Plot, and, for this reason, a great many critics agree that \"Macbeth\" was written in the year 1606. Lady Macbeth's instructions to her husband, \"Look like the innocent flower, but be the serpent under't\" (1.5.74–75), may be an allusion to a medal that was struck in 1605 to commemorate King James' escape that depicted a serpent hiding among lilies and roses.\n\nParticularly, the Porter's speech (2.3.1–21) in which he welcomes an \"equivocator\", a farmer, and a tailor to hell (2.3.8–13), has been argued to be an allusion to the 28 March 1606 trial and execution on 3 May 1606 of the Jesuit Henry Garnet, who used the alias \"Farmer\", with \"equivocator\" referring to Garnet's defence of \"equivocation\". The porter says that the equivocator \"committed treason enough for God's sake\" (2.3.9–10), which specifically connects equivocation and treason and ties it to the Jesuit belief that equivocation was only lawful when used \"for God's sake\", strengthening the allusion to Garnet. The porter goes on to say that the equivocator \"yet could not equivocate to heaven\" (2.3.10–11), echoing grim jokes that were current on the eve of Garnet's execution: i.e. that Garnet would be \"hanged without equivocation\" and at his execution he was asked \"not to equivocate with his last breath.\" The \"English tailor\" the porter admits to hell (2.3.13), has been seen as an allusion to Hugh Griffin, a tailor who was questioned by the Archbishop of Canterbury on 27 November and 3 December 1607 for the part he played in Garnet's \"miraculous straw\", an infamous head of straw that was stained with Garnet's blood that had congealed into a form resembling Garnet's portrait, which was hailed by Catholics as a miracle. The tailor Griffin became notorious and the subject of verses published with his portrait on the title page.\n\nWhen James became king of England, a feeling of uncertainty settled over the nation. James was a Scottish king and the son of Mary, Queen of Scots, a staunch Catholic and English traitor. In the words of critic Robert Crawford, \"\"Macbeth\" was a play for a post-Elizabethan England facing up to what it might mean to have a Scottish king. England seems comparatively benign, while its northern neighbour is mired in a bloody, monarch-killing past. ... \"Macbeth\" may have been set in medieval Scotland, but it was filled with material of interest to England and England's ruler.\" Critics argue that the content of the play is clearly a message to James, the new Scottish King of England. Likewise, the critic Andrew Hadfield noted the contrast the play draws between the saintly King Edward the Confessor of England who has the power of the royal touch to cure scrofula and whose realm is portrayed as peaceful and prosperous vs. the bloody chaos of Scotland. James in his 1598 book \"The Trew Law of Free Monarchies\" had asserted that kings are always right, if not just, and his subjects own him total loyalty at all times, writing that even if a king is a tyrant, his subjects must never rebel and just endure his tyranny for their own good. James had argued that the tyranny was preferable to the problems caused by rebellion which were even worse; Shakespeare by contrast in \"Macbeth\" argued for the right of the subjects to overthrow a tyrant king, in what appeared to be an implied criticism of James's theories if applied to England. Hadfield also noted a curious aspect of the play in that it implies that primogeniture is the norm in Scotland, but Duncan has to nominate his son Malcolm to be his successor while Macbeth is accepted without protest by the Scottish lairds as their king despite being an usurper. Hadfield argued this aspect of the play with the thanes apparently choosing their king was a reference to the Stuart claim to the English throne, and the attempts of the English parliament to block the succession of James's Catholic mother, Mary, Queen of Scots, from succeeding to the English throne. Hadfield argued that Shakespeare that implying that James was indeed the rightful king of England, but he owned his throne not to divine favor as James would have it, but rather due to the willingness of the English Parliament to accept the Protestant son of the Catholic Mary, Queen of Scots, as their king.\n\nGarry Wills provides further evidence that \"Macbeth\" is a Gunpowder Play (a type of play that emerged immediately following the events of the Gunpowder Plot). He points out that every Gunpowder Play contains \"a necromancy scene, regicide attempted or completed, references to equivocation, scenes that test loyalty by use of deceptive language, and a character who sees through plots—along with a vocabulary similar to the Plot in its immediate aftermath (words like \"train, blow, vault\") and an ironic recoil of the Plot upon the Plotters (who fall into the pit they dug).\"\n\nThe play utilizes a few key words that the audience at the time would recognize as allusions to the Plot. In one sermon in 1605, Lancelot Andrewes stated, regarding the failure of the Plotters on God's day, \"Be they fair or foul, glad or sad (as the poet calleth Him) the great Diespiter, 'the Father of days' hath made them both.\" Shakespeare begins the play by using the words \"fair\" and \"foul\" in the first speeches of the witches and Macbeth. In the words of Jonathan Gil Harris, the play expresses the \"horror unleashed by a supposedly loyal subject who seeks to kill a king and the treasonous role of equivocation. The play even echoes certain keywords from the scandal – the 'vault' beneath the House of Parliament in which Guy Fawkes stored thirty kegs of gunpowder and the 'blow' about which one of the conspirators had secretly warned a relative who planned to attend the House of Parliament on 5 November...Even though the Plot is never alluded to directly, its presence is everywhere in the play, like a pervasive odor.\"\nScholars also cite an entertainment seen by King James at Oxford in the summer of 1605 that featured three \"sibyls\" like the weird sisters; Kermode surmises that Shakespeare could have heard about this and alluded to it with the weird sisters. However, A. R. Braunmuller in the New Cambridge edition finds the 1605–06 arguments inconclusive, and argues only for an earliest date of 1603.\n\nOne suggested allusion supporting a date in late 1606 is the first witch's dialogue about a sailor's wife: \"'Aroint thee, witch!' the rump-fed ronyon cries./Her husband's to Aleppo gone, master o' the \"Tiger\"\" (1.3.6–7). This has been thought to allude to the \"Tiger\", a ship that returned to England 27 June 1606 after a disastrous voyage in which many of the crew were killed by pirates. A few lines later the witch speaks of the sailor, \"He shall live a man forbid:/Weary se'nnights nine times nine\" (1.3.21–22). The real ship was at sea 567 days, the product of 7x9x9, which has been taken as a confirmation of the allusion, which if correct, confirms that the witch scenes were either written or amended later than July 1606.\n\nThe play is not considered to have been written any later than 1607, since, as Kermode notes, there are \"fairly clear allusions to the play in 1607.\" One notable reference is in Francis Beaumont's \"Knight of the Burning Pestle\", first performed in 1607. The following lines (Act V, Scene 1, 24–30) are, according to scholars, a clear allusion to the scene in which Banquo's ghost haunts Macbeth at the dinner table:\n\n<poem>\nWhen thou art at thy table with thy friends,\nMerry in heart, and filled with swelling wine,\nI'll come in midst of all thy pride and mirth,\nInvisible to all men but thyself,\nAnd whisper such a sad tale in thine ear\nShall make thee let the cup fall from thy hand,\nAnd stand as mute and pale as death itself.</poem>\n\n\"Macbeth\" was first printed in the First Folio of 1623 and the Folio is the only source for the text. Some scholars contend that the Folio text was abridged and rearranged from an earlier manuscript or prompt book. Often cited as interpolation are stage cues for two songs, whose lyrics are not included in the Folio but are included in Thomas Middleton's play \"The Witch\", which was written between the accepted date for \"Macbeth\" (1606) and the printing of the Folio. Many scholars believe these songs were editorially inserted into the Folio, though whether they were Middleton's songs or preexisting songs is not certain. It is also widely believed that the character of Hecate, as well as some lines of the First Witch (4.1 124–31), were not part of Shakespeare's original play but were added by the Folio editors and possibly written by Middleton, though \"there is no completely objective proof\" of such interpolation.\n\nThe 'reconstructive movement' was concerned with the recreation of Elizabethan acting conditions, and would eventually lead to the creation of Shakespeare's Globe and similar replicas. One of the movement's offshoots was in the reconstruction of Elizabethan pronunciation: for example Bernard Miles' 1951 \"Macbeth\", for which linguists from University College London were employed to create a transcript of the play in Elizabethan English, then an audio recording of that transcription, from which the actors, in turn, learned their lines.\n\nThe pronunciation of many words evolves over time. In Shakespeare's day, for example, \"heath\" was pronounced as \"heth\" (\"or a slightly elongated 'e' as in the modern 'get'\"), so it rhymed with \"Macbeth\" in the sentences by the Witches at the beginning of the play:\n\nSecond Witch: Upon the heath.Third Witch: There to meet with Macbeth.\n\nA scholar of antique pronunciation writes, \"\"Heath\" would have made a close (if not exact) rhyme with the \"-eth\" of \"Macbeth\", which was pronounced with a short 'i' as in 'it'.\"\n\nIn the theatre programme notes, \"much was made of how OP [Original Pronunciation] performance reintroduces lost rhymes such as the final couplet: 'So thanks to all at once, and each to one, / Whom we invite to see us crowned at Scone'\" (5.11.40–41) where 'one' sounds like 'own'. The Witches, the play's great purveyors of rhyme, benefited most in this regard. So, 'babe' (4.1.30) sounded like 'bab' and rhymed with 'drab' (4.1.31)...\"\n\nEoin Price wrote, \"I found the OP rendition of Banquo's brilliant question 'Or have we eaten on the insane root / That takes the raison prisoner?' unduly amusing\"; and he adds,\n\n\"Macbeth\" is an anomaly among Shakespeare's tragedies in certain critical ways. It is short: more than a thousand lines shorter than \"Othello\" and \"King Lear\", and only slightly more than half as long as \"Hamlet\". This brevity has suggested to many critics that the received version is based on a heavily cut source, perhaps a prompt-book for a particular performance. This would reflect other Shakespearean plays existing in both Quarto and the Folio, where the Quarto versions are usually longer than the Folio versions. \"Macbeth\" was first printed in the First Folio, but has no Quarto version – if there were a Quarto, it would probably be longer than the Folio version. That brevity has also been connected to other unusual features: the fast pace of the first act, which has seemed to be \"stripped for action\"; the comparative flatness of the characters other than Macbeth; and the oddness of Macbeth himself compared with other Shakespearean tragic heroes. A. C. Bradley, in considering this question, concluded the play \"always was an extremely short one\", noting the witch scenes and battle scenes would have taken up some time in performance, remarking, \"I do not think that, in reading, we \"feel\" Macbeth to be short: certainly we are astonished when we hear it is about half as long as \"Hamlet\". Perhaps in the Shakespearean theatre too it seemed to occupy a longer time than the clock recorded.\"\n\nAt least since the days of Alexander Pope and Samuel Johnson, analysis of the play has centred on the question of Macbeth's ambition, commonly seen as so dominant a trait that it defines the character. Johnson asserted that Macbeth, though esteemed for his military bravery, is wholly reviled.\n\nThis opinion recurs in critical literature, and, according to Caroline Spurgeon, is supported by Shakespeare himself, who apparently intended to degrade his hero by vesting him with clothes unsuited to him and to make Macbeth look ridiculous by several nimisms he applies: His garments seem either too big or too small for him – as his ambition is too big and his character too small for his new and unrightful role as king. When he feels as if \"dressed in borrowed robes\", after his new title as Thane of Cawdor, prophesied by the witches, has been confirmed by Ross (I, 3, ll. 108–09), Banquo comments: \"New honours come upon him,<br>Like our strange garments, cleave not to their mould,<br>But with the aid of use\" (I, 3, ll. 145–46). And, at the end, when the tyrant is at bay at Dunsinane, Caithness sees him as a man trying in vain to fasten a large garment on him with too small a belt: \"He cannot buckle his distemper'd cause <br> Within the belt of rule\" (V, 2, ll. 14–15) while Angus, in a similar nimism, sums up what everybody thinks ever since Macbeth's accession to power: \"now does he feel his title <br> Hang loose about him, like a giant's robe <br> upon a dwarfish thief\" (V, 2, ll. 18–20).\n\nLike Richard III, but without that character's perversely appealing exuberance, Macbeth wades through blood until his inevitable fall. As Kenneth Muir writes, \"Macbeth has not a predisposition to murder; he has merely an inordinate ambition that makes murder itself seem to be a lesser evil than failure to achieve the crown.\" Some critics, such as E. E. Stoll, explain this characterisation as a holdover from Senecan or medieval tradition. Shakespeare's audience, in this view, expected villains to be wholly bad, and Senecan style, far from prohibiting a villainous protagonist, all but demanded it.\n\nYet for other critics, it has not been so easy to resolve the question of Macbeth's motivation. Robert Bridges, for instance, perceived a paradox: a character able to express such convincing horror before Duncan's murder would likely be incapable of committing the crime. For many critics, Macbeth's motivations in the first act appear vague and insufficient. John Dover Wilson hypothesised that Shakespeare's original text had an extra scene or scenes where husband and wife discussed their plans. This interpretation is not fully provable; however, the motivating role of ambition for Macbeth is universally recognised. The evil actions motivated by his ambition seem to trap him in a cycle of increasing evil, as Macbeth himself recognises: \"I am in blood<br>Stepp'd in so far that, should I wade no more,<br> Returning were as tedious as go o'er.\"\n\nWhile working on Russian translations of Shakespeare's works, Boris Pasternak compared Macbeth to Raskolnikov, the protagonist of \"Crime and Punishment\" by Fyodor Dostoevsky. Pasternak argues that \"neither Macbeth or Raskolnikov is a born criminal or a villain by nature. They are turned into criminals by faulty rationalizations, by deductions from false premises.\" He goes on to argue that Lady Macbeth is \"feminine ... one of those active, insistent wives\" who becomes her husband's \"executive, more resolute and consistent than he is himself.\" According to Pasternak, she is only helping Macbeth carry out his own wishes, to her own detriment.\n\nThe disastrous consequences of Macbeth's ambition are not limited to him. Almost from the moment of the murder, the play depicts Scotland as a land shaken by inversions of the natural order. Shakespeare may have intended a reference to the great chain of being, although the play's images of disorder are mostly not specific enough to support detailed intellectual readings. He may also have intended an elaborate compliment to James's belief in the divine right of kings, although this hypothesis, outlined at greatest length by Henry N. Paul, is not universally accepted. As in \"Julius Caesar\", though, perturbations in the political sphere are echoed and even amplified by events in the material world. Among the most often depicted of the inversions of the natural order is sleep. Macbeth's announcement that he has \"murdered sleep\" is figuratively mirrored in Lady Macbeth's sleepwalking.\n\n\"Macbeth\"'s generally accepted indebtedness to medieval tragedy is often seen as significant in the play's treatment of moral order. Glynne Wickham connects the play, through the Porter, to a mystery play on the harrowing of hell. Howard Felperin argues that the play has a more complex attitude toward \"orthodox Christian tragedy\" than is often admitted; he sees a kinship between the play and the tyrant plays within the medieval liturgical drama.\n\nThe theme of androgyny is often seen as a special aspect of the theme of disorder. Inversion of normative gender roles is most famously associated with the witches and with Lady Macbeth as she appears in the first act. Whatever Shakespeare's degree of sympathy with such inversions, the play ends with a thorough return to normative gender values. Some feminist psychoanalytic critics, such as Janet Adelman, have connected the play's treatment of gender roles to its larger theme of inverted natural order. In this light, Macbeth is punished for his violation of the moral order by being removed from the cycles of nature (which are figured as female); nature itself (as embodied in the movement of Birnam Wood) is part of the restoration of moral order.\n\nCritics in the early twentieth century reacted against what they saw as an excessive dependence on the study of character in criticism of the play. This dependence, though most closely associated with Andrew Cecil Bradley, is clear as early as the time of Mary Cowden Clarke, who offered precise, if fanciful, accounts of the predramatic lives of Shakespeare's female leads. She suggested, for instance, that the child Lady Macbeth refers to in the first act died during a foolish military action.\n\nIn the play, the Three Witches represent darkness, chaos, and conflict, while their role is as agents and witnesses. Their presence communicates treason and impending doom. During Shakespeare's day, witches were seen as worse than rebels, \"the most notorious traytor and rebell that can be.\" They were not only political traitors, but spiritual traitors as well. Much of the confusion that springs from them comes from their ability to straddle the play's borders between reality and the supernatural. They are so deeply entrenched in both worlds that it is unclear whether they control fate, or whether they are merely its agents. They defy logic, not being subject to the rules of the real world. The witches' lines in the first act: \"Fair is foul, and foul is fair: Hover through the fog and filthy air\" are often said to set the tone for the rest of the play by establishing a sense of confusion. Indeed, the play is filled with situations where evil is depicted as good, while good is rendered evil. The line \"Double, double toil and trouble,\" communicates the witches' intent clearly: they seek only trouble for the mortals around them. The witches' spells are remarkably similar to the spells of the witch Medusa in Anthony Munday's play \"Fidele and Fortunio\" published in 1584, and Shakespeare may have been influenced by these.\n\nWhile the witches do not tell Macbeth directly to kill King Duncan, they use a subtle form of temptation when they tell Macbeth that he is destined to be king. By placing this thought in his mind, they effectively guide him on the path to his own destruction. This follows the pattern of temptation used at the time of Shakespeare. First, they argued, a thought is put in a man's mind, then the person may either indulge in the thought or reject it. Macbeth indulges in it, while Banquo rejects.\n\nAccording to J. A. Bryant Jr., Macbeth also makes use of Biblical parallels, notably between King Duncan's murder and the murder of Christ:\n\nWhile many today would say that any misfortune surrounding a production is mere coincidence, actors and others in the theatre industry often consider it bad luck to mention \"Macbeth\" by name while inside a theatre, and sometimes refer to it indirectly, for example as \"The Scottish Play\", or \"MacBee\", or when referring to the character and not the play, \"Mr. and Mrs. M\", or \"The Scottish King\".\n\nThis is because Shakespeare (or the play's revisers) are said to have used the spells of real witches in his text, purportedly angering the witches and causing them to curse the play. Thus, to say the name of the play inside a theatre is believed to doom the production to failure, and perhaps cause physical injury or death to cast members. There are stories of accidents, misfortunes and even deaths taking place during runs of \"Macbeth\".\n\nAccording to the actor Sir Donald Sinden, in his Sky Arts TV series \"Great West End Theatres\", contrary to popular myth, Shakespeare's tragedy Macbeth is not the unluckiest play as superstition likes to portray it. Exactly the opposite! The origin of the unfortunate moniker dates back to repertory theatre days when each town and village had at least one theatre to entertain the public. If a play was not doing well, it would invariably get 'pulled' and replaced with a sure-fire audience pleaser – Macbeth guaranteed full-houses. So when the weekly theatre newspaper, \"The Stage\" was published, listing what was on in each theatre in the country, it was instantly noticed what shows had \"not\" worked the previous week, as they had been replaced by a definite crowd-pleaser. More actors have died during performances of Hamlet than in the \"Scottish play\" as the profession still calls it. It is forbidden to quote from it backstage as this could cause the current play to collapse and have to be replaced, causing possible unemployment.\n\nSeveral methods exist to dispel the curse, depending on the actor. One, attributed to Michael York, is to immediately leave the building the stage is in with the person who uttered the name, walk around it three times, spit over their left shoulders, say an obscenity then wait to be invited back into the building. A related practice is to spin around three times as fast as possible on the spot, sometimes accompanied by spitting over their shoulder, and uttering an obscenity. Another popular \"ritual\" is to leave the room, knock three times, be invited in, and then quote a line from \"Hamlet\". Yet another is to recite lines from \"The Merchant of Venice\", thought to be a lucky play.\n\nThe only eyewitness account of \"Macbeth\" in Shakespeare's lifetime was recorded by Simon Forman, who saw a performance at the Globe on 20 April 1610. Scholars have noted discrepancies between Forman's account and the play as it appears in the Folio. For example, he makes no mention of the apparition scene, or of Hecate, of the man not of woman born, or of Birnam Wood. However, Clark observes that Forman's accounts were often inaccurate and incomplete (for instance omitting the statue scene from \"The Winter's Tale\") and his interest did not seem to be in \"giving full accounts of the productions.\"\n\nAs mentioned above, the Folio text is thought by some to be an alteration of the original play. This has led to the theory that the play as we know it from the Folio was an adaptation for indoor performance at the Blackfriars Theatre (which was operated by the King's Men from 1608) – and even speculation that it represents a specific performance before King James. The play contains more musical cues than any other play in the canon as well as a significant use of sound effects.\n\nAll theatres were closed down by the Puritan government on 6 September 1642. Upon the restoration of the monarchy in 1660, two patent companies (the King's Company and the Duke's Company) were established, and the existing theatrical repertoire divided between them. Sir William Davenant, founder of the Duke's Company, adapted Shakespeare's play to the tastes of the new era, and his version would dominate on stage for around eighty years. Among the changes he made were the expansion of the role of the witches, introducing new songs, dances and 'flying', and the expansion of the role of Lady Macduff as a foil to Lady Macbeth. There were, however, performances outside the patent companies: among the evasions of the Duke's Company's monopoly was a puppet version of \"Macbeth\".\n\n\"Macbeth\" was a favourite of the seventeenth-century diarist Samuel Pepys, who saw the play on 5 November 1664 (\"admirably acted\"), 28 December 1666 (\"most excellently acted\"), ten days later on 7 January 1667 (\"though I saw it lately, yet [it] appears a most excellent play in all respects\"), on 19 April 1667 (\"one of the best plays for a stage ... that ever I saw\"), again on 16 October 1667 (\"was vexed to see Young, who is but a bad actor at best, act Macbeth in the room of Betterton, who, poor man! is sick\"), and again three weeks later on 6 November 1667 (\"[at] \"Macbeth\", which we still like mightily\"), yet again on 12 August 1668 (\"saw \"Macbeth\", to our great content\"), and finally on 21 December 1668, on which date the king and court were also present in the audience.\n\nThe first professional performances of \"Macbeth\" in North America were probably those of The Hallam Company.\n\nIn 1744, David Garrick revived the play, abandoning Davenant's version and instead advertising it \"as written by Shakespeare\". In fact this claim was largely false: he retained much of Davenant's more popular business for the witches, and himself wrote a lengthy death speech for Macbeth. And he cut more than 10% of Shakespeare's play, including the drunken porter, the murder of Lady Macduff's son, and Malcolm's testing of Macduff. Hannah Pritchard was his greatest stage partner, having her premiere as his Lady Macbeth in 1747. He would later drop the play from his repertoire upon her retirement from the stage. Mrs. Pritchard was the first actress to achieve acclaim in the role of Lady Macbeth – at least partly due to the removal of Davenant's material, which made irrelevant moral contrasts with Lady Macduff. Garrick's portrayal focused on the inner life of the character, endowing him with an innocence vacillating between good and evil, and betrayed by outside influences. He portrayed a man capable of observing himself, as if a part of him remained untouched by what he had done, the play moulding him into a man of sensibility, rather than him descending into a tyrant.\n\nJohn Philip Kemble first played Macbeth in 1778. Although usually regarded as the antithesis of Garrick, Kemble nevertheless refined aspects of Garrick's portrayal into his own. However it was the \"towering and majestic\" Sarah Siddons (Kemble's sister) who became a legend in the role of Lady Macbeth. In contrast to Hannah Pritchard's savage, demonic portrayal, Siddons' Lady Macbeth, while terrifying, was nevertheless – in the scenes in which she expresses her regret and remorse – tenderly human. And in portraying her actions as done out of love for her husband, Siddons deflected from him some of the moral responsibility for the play's carnage. Audiences seem to have found the sleepwalking scene particularly mesmerising: Hazlitt said of it that \"all her gestures were involuntary and mechanical ... She glided on and off the stage almost like an apparition.\"\n\nIn 1794, Kemble dispensed with the ghost of Banquo altogether, allowing the audience to see Macbeth's reaction as his wife and guests see it, and relying upon the fact that the play was so well known that his audience would already be aware that a ghost enters at that point.\n\nFerdinand Fleck, notable as the first German actor to present Shakespeare's tragic roles in their fullness, played Macbeth at the Berlin National Theatre from 1787. Unlike his English counterparts, he portrayed the character as achieving his stature after the murder of Duncan, growing in presence and confidence: thereby enabling stark contrasts, such as in the banquet scene, which he ended babbling like a child.\n\nPerformances outside the patent theatres were instrumental in bringing the monopoly to an end. Robert Elliston, for example, produced a popular adaptation of \"Macbeth\" in 1809 at the Royal Circus described in its publicity as \"this matchless piece of pantomimic and choral performance\", which circumvented the illegality of speaking Shakespeare's words through mimed action, singing, and doggerel verse written by J. C. Cross.\n\nIn 1809, in an unsuccessful attempt to take Covent Garden upmarket, Kemble installed private boxes, increasing admission prices to pay for the improvements. The inaugural run at the newly renovated theatre was \"Macbeth\", which was disrupted for over two months with cries of \"Old prices!\" and \"No private boxes!\" until Kemble capitulated to the protestors' demands.\n\nEdmund Kean at Drury Lane gave a psychological portrayal of the central character, with a common touch, but was ultimately unsuccessful in the role. However he did pave the way for the most acclaimed performance of the nineteenth century, that of William Charles Macready. Macready played the role over a 30-year period, firstly at Covent Garden in 1820 and finally in his retirement performance. Although his playing evolved over the years, it was noted throughout for the tension between the idealistic aspects and the weaker, venal aspects of Macbeth's character. His staging was full of spectacle, including several elaborate royal processions.\n\nIn 1843 the Theatres Regulation Act finally brought the patent companies' monopoly to an end. From that time until the end of the Victorian era, London theatre was dominated by the actor-managers, and the style of presentation was \"pictorial\" – proscenium stages filled with spectacular stage-pictures, often featuring complex scenery, large casts in elaborate costumes, and frequent use of tableaux vivant. Charles Kean (son of Edmund), at London's Princess's Theatre from 1850 to 1859, took an antiquarian view of Shakespeare performance, setting his \"Macbeth\" in a historically accurate eleventh-century Scotland. His leading lady, Ellen Tree, created a sense of the character's inner life: \"The Times\" critic saying \"The countenance which she assumed ... when luring on Macbeth in his course of crime, was actually appalling in intensity, as if it denoted a hunger after guilt.\" At the same time, special effects were becoming popular: for example in Samuel Phelps' \"Macbeth\" the witches performed behind green gauze, enabling them to appear and disappear using stage lighting.\n\nIn 1849, rival performances of the play sparked the Astor Place riot in Manhattan. The popular American actor Edwin Forrest, whose Macbeth was said to be like \"the ferocious chief of a barbarous tribe\" played the central role at the Broadway Theatre to popular acclaim, while the \"cerebral and patrician\" English actor Macready, playing the same role at the Astor Place Opera House, suffered constant heckling. The existing enmity between the two men (Forrest had openly hissed Macready at a recent performance of \"Hamlet\" in Britain) was taken up by Forrest's supporters – formed from the working class and lower middle class and anti-British agitators, keen to attack the upper-class pro-British patrons of the Opera House and the colonially-minded Macready. Nevertheless, Macready performed the role again three days later to a packed house while an angry mob gathered outside. The militia tasked with controlling the situation fired into the mob. In total, 31 rioters were killed and over 100 injured.\n\nCharlotte Cushman is unique among nineteenth century interpreters of Shakespeare in achieving stardom in roles of both genders. Her New York debut was as Lady Macbeth in 1836, and she would later be admired in London in the same role in the mid-1840s. Helen Faucit was considered the embodiment of early-Victorian notions of femininity. But for this reason she largely failed when she eventually played Lady Macbeth in 1864: her serious attempt to embody the coarser aspects of Lady Macbeth's character jarred harshly with her public image. Adelaide Ristori, the great Italian actress, brought her Lady Macbeth to London in 1863 in Italian, and again in 1873 in an English translation cut in such a way as to be, in effect, Lady Macbeth's tragedy.\n\nHenry Irving was the most successful of the late-Victorian actor-managers, but his \"Macbeth\" failed to curry favour with audiences. His desire for psychological credibility reduced certain aspects of the role: He described Macbeth as a brave soldier but a moral coward, and played him untroubled by conscience – clearly already contemplating the murder of Duncan before his encounter with the witches. Irving's leading lady was Ellen Terry, but her Lady Macbeth was unsuccessful with the public, for whom a century of performances influenced by Sarah Siddons had created expectations at odds with Terry's conception of the role.\n\nLate nineteenth-century European Macbeths aimed for heroic stature, but at the expense of subtlety: Tommaso Salvini in Italy and Adalbert Matkowsky in Germany were said to inspire awe, but elicited little pity.\n\nTwo developments changed the nature of \"Macbeth\" performance in the 20th century: first, developments in the craft of acting itself, especially the ideas of Stanislavski and Brecht; and second, the rise of the dictator as a political icon. The latter has not always assisted the performance: it is difficult to sympathise with a Macbeth based on Hitler, Stalin, or Idi Amin.\n\nBarry Jackson, at the Birmingham Repertory Theatre in 1923, was the first of the 20th-century directors to costume \"Macbeth\" in modern dress.\n\nIn 1936, a decade before his film adaptation of the play, Orson Welles directed \"Macbeth\" for the Negro Theatre Unit of the Federal Theatre Project at the Lafayette Theatre in Harlem, using black actors and setting the action in Haiti: with drums and Voodoo rituals to establish the Witches scenes. The production, dubbed \"The Voodoo Macbeth\", proved inflammatory in the aftermath of the Harlem riots, accused of making fun of black culture and as \"a campaign to burlesque negroes\" until Welles persuaded crowds that his use of black actors and voodoo made important cultural statements.\nA performance which is frequently referenced as an example of the play's curse was the outdoor production directed by Burgess Meredith in 1953 in the British colony of Bermuda, starring Charlton Heston. Using the imposing spectacle of Fort St. Catherine as a key element of the set, the production was plagued by a host of mishaps, including Charlton Heston being burned when his tights caught fire.\n\nThe critical consensus is that there have been three great Macbeths on the English-speaking stage in the 20th century, all of them commencing at Stratford-upon-Avon: Laurence Olivier in 1955, Ian McKellen in 1976 and Antony Sher in 1999. Olivier's portrayal (directed by Glen Byam Shaw, with Vivien Leigh as Lady Macbeth) was immediately hailed as a masterpiece. Kenneth Tynan expressed the view that it succeeded because Olivier built the role to a climax at the end of the play, whereas most actors spend all they have in the first two acts.\n\nThe play caused grave difficulties for the Royal Shakespeare Company, especially at the (then) Shakespeare Memorial Theatre. Peter Hall's 1967 production was (in Michael Billington's words) \"an acknowledged disaster\" with the use of real leaves from Birnham Wood getting unsolicited first-night laughs, and Trevor Nunn's 1974 production was (Billington again) \"an over-elaborate religious spectacle\".\n\nBut Nunn achieved success for the RSC in his 1976 production at the intimate Other Place, with Ian McKellen and Judi Dench in the central roles. A small cast worked within a simple circle, and McKellen's Macbeth had nothing noble or likeable about him, being a manipulator in a world of manipulative characters. They were a young couple, physically passionate, \"not monsters but recognisable human beings\", but their relationship atrophied as the action progressed.\n\nThe RSC again achieved critical success in Gregory Doran's 1999 production at The Swan, with Antony Sher and Harriet Walter in the central roles, once again demonstrating the suitability of the play for smaller venues. Doran's witches spoke their lines to a theatre in absolute darkness, and the opening visual image was the entrance of Macbeth and Banquo in the berets and fatigues of modern warfare, carried on the shoulders of triumphant troops. In contrast to Nunn, Doran presented a world in which king Duncan and his soldiers were ultimately benign and honest, heightening the deviance of Macbeth (who seems genuinely surprised by the witches' prophesies) and Lady Macbeth in plotting to kill the king. The play said little about politics, instead powerfully presenting its central characters' psychological collapse.\n\nIn Soviet-controlled Prague in 1977, faced with the illegality of working in theatres, Pavel Kohout adapted \"Macbeth\" into a 75-minute abridgement for five actors, suitable for \"bringing a show in a suitcase to people's homes\".\n\nSpectacle was unfashionable in Western theatre throughout the 20th century. In East Asia, however, spectacular productions have achieved great success, including Yukio Ninagawa's 1980 production with Masane Tsukayama as Macbeth, set in the 16th century Japanese Civil War. The same director's tour of London in 1987 was widely praised by critics, even though (like most of their audience) they were unable to understand the significance of Macbeth's gestures, the huge Buddhist altar dominating the set, or the petals falling from the cherry trees.\n\nXu Xiaozhong's 1980 Central Academy of Drama production in Beijing made every effort to be unpolitical (necessary in the aftermath of the Cultural Revolution): yet audiences still perceived correspondences between the central character (whom the director had actually modelled on Louis Napoleon) and Mao Zedong. Shakespeare has often been adapted to indigenous theatre traditions, for example the \"Kunju Macbeth\" of Huang Zuolin performed at the inaugural Chinese Shakespeare Festival of 1986. Similarly, B. V. Karanth's \"Barnam Vana\" of 1979 had adapted \"Macbeth\" to the Yakshagana tradition of Karnataka, India. In 1997, Lokendra Arambam created \"Stage of Blood\", merging a range of martial arts, dance and gymnastic styles from Manipur, performed in Imphal and in England. The stage was literally a raft on a lake.\n\n\"Throne of Blood\" (蜘蛛巣城 Kumonosu-jō, \"Spider Web Castle\") is a 1957 Japanese samurai film co-written and directed by Akira Kurosawa. The film transposes Macbeth from Medieval Scotland to feudal Japan, with stylistic elements drawn from Noh drama. Kurosawa was a fan of the play and planned his own adaptation for several years, postponing it after learning of Orson Welles' Macbeth (1948). The film won two Mainichi Film Awards.\n\nThe play has been translated and performed in various languages in different parts of the world, and \"Media Artists\" was the first to stage its Punjabi adaptation in India. The adaptation by Balram and the play directed by Samuel John have been universally acknowledged as a milestone in Punjabi theatre. The unique attempt involved trained theatre experts and the actors taken from a rural background in Punjab. Punjabi folk music imbued the play with the native ethos as the Scottish setting of Shakespeare's play was transposed into a Punjabi milieu.\n\n\nAll references to \"Macbeth\", unless otherwise specified, are taken from the Arden Shakespeare, second series edition edited by Kenneth Muir. Under their referencing system, III.I.55 means act 3, scene 1, line 55. All references to other Shakespeare plays are to The Oxford Shakespeare \"Complete Works of Shakespeare\" edited by Stanley Wells and Gary Taylor.\n\n"}
{"id": "34954314", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34954314", "title": "Marwan ibn Muhammad's invasion of Georgia", "text": "Marwan ibn Muhammad's invasion of Georgia\n\nMarwan ibn Muhammad's invasion of Georgia took place from 735 to 737. It was initiated by the Umayyad Caliphate. The goals of the campaign are disputed among historians. The Georgian historiography insists its main purpose was to finally break the stiff Georgian resistance against Arab rule, however, the western historians such as Cyril Toumanoff, and Ronald Suny, view it as a general campaign directed at both the Byzantine Empire, who exerted dominion over Western Georgia, and the Khazars, whose repeated raids affected not only Iberia (Eastern Georgia) and the whole Caucasus, but had in 730 reached Arab lands all the way to Mosul.\n\nThe invasion was led by Marwan ibn Muhammad, who later became the last Umayyad caliph Marwan II. He first campaigned in Kartli, after which he led his armies to the west and besieged the fortress of Anakopia, where Archil of Kakheti and his brother Mihr, who were assisted by Leon I of Abkhazia, were stationed. The Arabs failed to take the fortress and were forced to retreat. Fearing an onslaught, large numbers of Georgians fled to the mountainous regions. Marwan later invaded Samtskhe, encamped in Odzrkhe and led his forces against the princes of Argveti, Constantine and David, from whom, upon their capture, he demanded unconditional conversion to Islam, which both refused. He tortured and then killed them for their refusal. After that, Marwan took Tshkumi (modern Sukhumi) and Tsikhegoji and again turned to Anakopia. The Georgians fought fiercely and the Arabs were powerless to take the fortress, especially after heavy rains and floods began. The Arabs retreated with heavy losses.\n\nMarwan's cruelty and ruthlessness was epitomized by the Georgians by naming him \"Marwan the deaf\". After his campaign, most major settlements were utterly ruined and people faced starvation. If Georgian historiography insists that Kartli was devastated by the invasion, Toumanoff, relying on local and Arab sources, claims that most of the damage in the Eastern part of the country was actually the result of the previous Khazar raids, and that the local Georgian prince, Guaram III of Iberia, actually sided with the Arabs in order to repeal them beyond the Caucasian range. In any case, the Arab intervention gave them more power over Iberia than they had managed to attain in almost a century of previous conquests. They established the Emirate of Tbilisi to exert direct control over Iberia, even though the Principate of Iberia was not abolished, and local nobility retained most of their power. Because civil instability and foreign enemies were plaguing the caliphate, it was unable to launch another invasion and until 786 settled upon receiving irregular tributes from the Georgian local princes.\n"}
{"id": "47272172", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47272172", "title": "Masuaki Kiyota", "text": "Masuaki Kiyota\n\nKiyota was tested by investigators in London by Granada Television and the results were negative. It was discovered that with tight controls, Kiyota was unable to project mental images onto film. He could only achieve success when he had the film in his possession without any control for at least 2 hours.\n\nKiyota feats such as metal bending were endorsed by Walter and Mary Jo Uphoff as evidence for psychokinesis. However, skeptics and magicians have written that Kiyota is a clever \"trickster\" who performed his feats by magic tricks. According to James Randi \"Kiyota's Polaroid photos were apparently produced by preexposing the film, since it was noted that he made great efforts to obtain a film pack and spend time with it in private.\" In a 1984 television interview, Kiyota confessed to fraud.\n"}
{"id": "6337994", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6337994", "title": "Megatripolis", "text": "Megatripolis\n\nMegatripolis was an underground London nightclub created by Encyclopaedia Psychedelica/Evolution editor and founder of the Zippie movement Fraser Clark, and partner Sionaidh Craigen as well as a great many others. The club combined New Age ideology with Rave culture to create a vibrant, festival-like atmosphere presenting a wide variety of cross-cultural ideas and experiences. Club nights ran regularly on Thursdays from 1993 until 1996, being the focus of much of the Zippie movement. The club and its related activities also helped to popularise ideas such as cyberculture and the Internet between those years.\n\nThe club first started at The Marquee in London when it was at 105 Charing Cross Road. Promoted by evolution / dream, and at first as a collaboration with Tribal Energy on Thursday nights in June 1993. The club hosted a lecture by Terence McKenna on its opening night. with DJ's, Sequenci, Mark Sinclair, Tribal Energy (Jez Turner), Solar Quest and Mixmaster Morris and featured an \"ambient space\" in the foyer and a \"smart bar\" on the terrace which sold various herbal drinks. With techno music playing, about 250 people attended. \n\nThe club ran weekly. After eight weeks, a disagreement between the Tribal Energy and Evolution / dream crews led to a split. Tribal Energy then continued at the Marquee with a club on the same night, called 'Metropolis', which ran for seven weeks before closing. The Evolution / dream crew consolidated and grew at the so-called Stanstead Tree Party in September 1993 – a protest event to prevent woods near Stanstead Airport in Essex being cleared to make way for housing development. \n\nOn 21 October 1993, the Heaven nightclub under Charing Cross Station became home to the club. 4,000 people attended for the free opening night. Heaven was London's original gay-only nightclub, but had run non-gay (known as Pyramid) nights for many years, including clubs such as Rage, Earth, Spectrum and Land of Oz. The club had the distinction of being full or almost full for every night of its 155-week run at Heaven.\n\nThe Megatripolis 'Festival in a box' on Thursday nights attracted a diverse audience from a wide age range, many of whom would not otherwise have considered going clubbing. By early 1994, it had also taken over the adjoining Sound Shaft nightclub and turned it into an ambient space with frequent all-night sets by Mixmaster Morris on the club's fourth separate sound stage. The club had many resident DJ's from across the broad spectrum of London's underground music scene. Megatripolis also promoted several large parties at Bagley's in Kings Cross and escalated its political agenda by renting an armoured car for the Criminal Justice and Public Order Bill protest rally in July 1994. \n\nThe club ran until New Year's 1995 when internal pressures forced it to continue with a diminished agenda, the club eventually closing on Thursday, 24 October 1996, the club's third birthday. A three-CD album representing the club's music was released in July 1996 on Funky Peace Productions 2000 featuring mixes by DJ regulars and packaged in hemp (tree-free) paper (re-released in 2013 as the 'mega-t' album). All production equipment owned by the club was distributed to members of the club's crew. The rented premises under St.Pancras station were handed over to what was to become \"Escape from Samsara\".\n\nMegatripolis events were also staged monthly in Manchester, and at least once at The Rocket in North London.\n\nMegatripolis proved popular, although some reporting of it suggested a conflict between an avowed downplay of psychedelic drugs and an enthusiasm for substance use by some club-goers. In any event, the club provided a meeting place of like-minded people and served as a platform for social awareness and activism as well as more traditional nightclub fare.\n\nTypical evenings combined lectures and workshops with live musical performances accompanied by live video mixing and theatre. Musical styles were diverse, and included progressive house, trance, deep house, minimal techno and dub. The club played a seminal role in promoting trance music. Visits from speakers such as Allen Ginsberg, Terence McKenna, George Monbiot, Howard Marks and Ram Dass were common. Ginsberg's 1995 appearance was made into the film \"Allen Ginsberg Live in London\". \n\nGuest DJs included James Munroe, Colin Faver, Colin Dale, Alex Paterson, Andrew Weatherall, Mr. C, Tsuyoshi Suzuki, Youth, and many others, but also featured nights when Dragonfly T.I.P or Flying Rhino records took over the main dance floor which was the birth of Psychedelic Trance, the upgrade of Goa Trance. The club's resident DJ's were Darius Akashic, Sequenci, Richard Grey, and Marco Arnaldi. at least one of them was on the main dance floor every week. Marcus Pennell was resident VJ. Atmospheric music combined with sound effects was played along to films in the \"chill-out rooms\" set apart from the dance floors. \n\nNew-age stalls occupied the central hallway selling non-alcoholic energy (or \"smart\") drinks, body jewellery, alternative \"small press\" comics and magazines (such as the short-lived, but influential Head Magazine), as well as T-shirts and other clothing. The club also encouraged face and body painters, massage therapists, healers and magicians. \n\nAlso notable were early demonstrations of the World Wide Web at a time when most patrons were just beginning to be aware of what was then termed cyberculture, something seen as an important, if not defining, part of the Zippie future. Underground bulletin boards such as London's pHreak hosted live \"cyber events\" from the club. In what was seen as very progressive at the time, a live video interview with Arthur C Clarke was conducted from his home in Sri Lanka on a portable satellite phone system. Similarly, Timothy Leary was transmitted into the club via ISDN giving a video interview from his home in the Los Angeles hills, ISDN having been installed at his house for the link. Leary had been banned from entering the UK in person by the British government in the 1960s, a ban that was still in force at the time. The Dalai Lama also gave a lecture at the club from the Barbican via ISDN on Thursday 18 July 1996. \n\nEnvironmental issues were an important part of the club's remit and another part of the Zippie agenda. Anti-road protests were advertised on its internal noticeboards, hemp fashion shows were staged, environmental lectures and debates took place in the talk room called \"The Well\", and bicycle-powered sound-systems played on several occasions in various rooms. megatripolis was a key mover in climate change promotion from this time.\n\nA UK tour took place in the spring / summer of 1996 including venues such as the Hacienda, Manchester, Junction, Cambridge, and others. Two gigs were also held at the Mad club in Athens, Greece in 1996.\n\nAn offshoot of the club was started by Fraser Clark and others, in San Francisco in late 1994. It ran for five consecutive weeks before closing.\n\nThe sixth and final night of the club was a \"launch rave\" hosted by Ronin Publishing for Timothy Leary's book \"Chaos And Cyber Culture\". In true \"illegal UK rave\" tradition, patrons were given the event's location at a nearby burger joint. Leary jammed and performed jazz skat with famous Bay Area musician \"Maruga\". He was later kidnapped by the Zippie Soundsystem and forced to release a statement condemning the UK Prime Minister John Major and the Criminal Justice and Public Order Act 1994, which famously banned outdoor parties with music that included an \"emission of a succession of repetitive beats\". \n\nLeary exerted a powerful influence over the philosophy of the club and the Zippie movement overall. An indication of this can be found in the introduction to his posthumous book \"The Fugitive Philosopher\" (\"Ronin Press\", September 2007) written by Fraser Clark. The original title of the piece, published in Clark's online magazine the \"UP!\", was \"Timothy Leary Was A Saint Who Will Be Remembered & Celebrated Long After Jesus, Mohamed and Elvis Are Forgotten\"\n\nMegatripolis is referenced in the BBC TV comedy 'Absolutely Fabulous', and on the Red Hot Chili Peppers album 'Stadium Arcadium'.\nWell-known people who attended the club as visitors included Malcolm Mclaren, Lynne Franks, The Pet Shop Boys, Björk, Heather Small, and Sir Richard Branson.\n\nIn 2008 Fraser Clark announced that he had inoperable liver cancer. In farewell to him, a final Megatripolis was held at Heaven on 13 November. He died on 21 January 2009.\n\n"}
{"id": "12052182", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12052182", "title": "Murder of pregnant women", "text": "Murder of pregnant women\n\nMurder of pregnant women is a type of homicide often resulting from domestic violence. Domestic violence—or intimate partner violence (IPV)—is suffered by many, and when analyzing cases in which victims came forward, majority of them are women. Many of these women fear harm not just to themselves but also to their unborn children. Recently, more focus has been placed on pregnancy-associated deaths due to violence. IPV may begin when the victim becomes pregnant. Research has shown that abuse while pregnant is a red flag for pregnancy-associated homicide.\n\nThe murder of pregnant women represents a relatively recently studied class of murder. Limited statistics are available as there is no reliable system in place yet to track such cases. Whether pregnancy is a causal factor is hard to determine.\n\nABC News have reported that studies in Maryland, New York, and Chicago found that approximately 20 percent of women who die during pregnancy are victims of murder. In 2004, \"The Washington Post\" examined death-record data across the US which documented the killings of 1,367 pregnant women and new mothers since 1990. The newspaper reports:\n\n[T]he killings span racial and ethnic groups. In cases whose details were known, 67 percent of women were killed with firearms. Many women were slain at home — in bedrooms, living rooms, kitchens — usually by men they knew. Husbands. Boyfriends. Lovers.Isabelle Horon and Diana Cheng of the Maryland Department of Health and Mental Hygiene conducted a study of pregnancy-associated deaths in Maryland between 1993 and 1998, defining pregnancy-associated death as death during pregnancy or within a year of pregnancy ending. They found that homicide was the leading cause of pregnancy-associated death, accounting for 20% of such deaths. In contrast, homicide was only the fifth leading cause of death for women of reproductive age who had not been pregnant in the year previous to their death, and accounted for 6.4% of deaths in this group. The second leading cause of pregnancy-associated death, heart disease, accounted for 19%. A study using data from the District of Columbia also found that homicide was the leading cause of pregnancy-associated death.\n\nA CDC study reported that \"the overall pregnancy-associated homicide ratio was 1.7 deaths per 100 000 live births\", and that homicide was not the leading cause of pregnancy-associated death, though it was still highlighted as among the leading causes. However, Horon and Cheng argued that the CDC's study underestimated the problem because it used incomplete information. Using more sources of information, Horon and Cheng found that the rate of pregnancy-associated homicide in Maryland was 10.5 per 100,000 live births. They suggested a need for US states to improve their collection of data on pregnancy-associated deaths. \"The Washington Post\" reported in 2004 that \"13 states said they had no way of telling how many pregnant and postpartum women had been killed in recent years\". In 2003, California remedied this by changing its death certificate documentation to include a female victim's maternity status.\n\nHomicide was the second-leading cause of death among women ages 20 to 24 and fifth among women ages 25–34 in 1999. The top cause of death in both age groups is accidents.\n\nThe Unborn Victims of Violence Act, passed in 2004, defines a fetus as a \"child in uterus\" and a person as being a legal crime victim \"if a fetal injury or death occurs during the commission of a federal violent crime.\" In the U.S., 38 states have laws with more harsh penalties if the victim is murdered while pregnant. Some of these laws defining the fetus as being a person, \"for the purpose of criminal prosecution of the offender\" (National Conference of State Legislatures, 2008). Laci Peterson, murdered in 2002, is one of the more high-profile homicides.\n\nCurrently in the North Carolina Senate, a bill called the SB 353 Unborn Victims of Violence Act is being considered for legislation that would create a separate criminal offense for the death of a fetus when the mother is murdered. The North Carolina Coalition Against Domestic Violence does not support this law for numerous reasons including failure to see violence against the mother as the cause of the fetal death. The Coalition does, however, support the position of the National Network to End Domestic Violence regarding the Unborn Victims of Violence Act.\n\nWhile it is almost impossible to determine an exact intervention point to prevent pregnancy-associated homicides, some possible opportunities can be pinpointed. The medical community is one of those points. Women may feel safe speaking to their health care providers about the abuse, especially after discovering they are pregnant. Some medical office and hospital policies specify that doctors will examine the patient privately without allowing the partner access. In a 2001 editorial in the Journal of the American Medical Association, Victoria Frye writes, \"Homicide by intimate partners may offer a focal point for effective pregnancy-associated mortality prevention efforts because many of these women come into contact with the health care system before their deaths.\" Reviews of Intimate Partner Homicide policy and research has identified several needs: System-wide training in healthcare on signs of domestic violence and system-wide screening for domestic violence by health care providers, as well as the knowledge of where to refer women to that need services when abuse is disclosed.\n\nStatistics for pregnancy as being a motivating factor in the murder of a pregnant woman are usually unavailable. Motives may vary, with a woman's pregnancy at the time of death sometimes being coincidental.\n\n"}
{"id": "34139246", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34139246", "title": "Nepal Fashion Week", "text": "Nepal Fashion Week\n\nNepal Fashion Week (also known as The Himalayan Times TGIF Nepal Fashion Week) is an event organized and promoted by IEC College of Art and Fashion and sponsored by the McDowell’s Signature, Emirates and Himalayan Times. \n\nFrom 2009 onwards the fashion week has been held annually in the capital city of Kathmandu. TGIF Nepal Fashion Week 2011 had 34 designers showcasing their collections on the catwalk. \n\nTGIF Fashion Week is a fashion show event organizer company in Nepal. Celebrities and fashion models from around the world come to model for the designers to promote their designs. The fashion week lasts for 4 days with all the glitz and glamor on the catwalk.\n"}
{"id": "3659585", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3659585", "title": "Old New Year", "text": "Old New Year\n\nAlthough the Russian Soviet Federative Socialist Republic officially adopted the Gregorian calendar in 1918, the Russian Orthodox Church continued to use the Julian calendar. The New Year became a holiday which is celebrated by both calendars.\n\nAs in most countries which use the Gregorian calendar, New Year's Day in Russia is a public holiday celebrated on January 1. On that day, joyous entertainment, fireworks, elaborate and often large meals and other festivities are common. The holiday is interesting as it combines secular traditions of bringing in the New Year with the Christian Orthodox Christmastide customs, such as \"kolyada\".\n\nThe New Year by the Julian calendar is still informally observed, and the tradition of celebrating the coming of the New Year twice is widely enjoyed: January 1 (\"New\" New Year) and January 14 (\"Old\" New Year).\n\nUsually not as festive as the \"New\" New Year, for many this is a nostalgic family holiday ending the New Year holiday cycle (which includes Eastern Orthodox Christmas on January 7) with traditional large meals, singing and celebratory drinking.\n\nThe Old New Year (/\"Stara Nova godina\") is commonly called the \"Serbian New Year\" (Српска Нова година/\"Srpska Nova godina\"), and sometimes the \"Orthodox New Year\" (Православна Нова година/\"Pravoslavna Nova godina\") and rarely \"Julian New Year\" (Јулијанска Нова година/\"Julijanska Nova godina\").\n\nThe Serbian Orthodox Church, with traditional adherence in Serbia (including Kosovo), Bosnia and Herzegovina, Montenegro and Croatia, celebrates its feasts and holidays according to the Julian calendar.\n\nA part of the population celebrates \"Serbian New Year\" in a similar way as the New Year on January 1. This time, usually one concert is organized in front of either City Hall or the National Parliament (in Belgrade), while fireworks are prepared by the Serbian Orthodox Church and fired from the Church of Saint Sava, where people also gather. Other cities also organize such celebrations. Restaurants, clubs, cafes and hotels are usually fully booked and organize New Year's celebrations with food and live music.\n\nA traditional folk name for this holiday as part of Twelve Days of Christmas is \"Little Christmas\" (Мали Божић/\"Mali Božić\"). Some families continue with the procedures of Serbian Christmas traditions.\n\nThe holiday in Macedonia is known as \"Old New Year\" (, \"Stara Nova godina\") or as \"Vasilica\" (Василица, \"St. Basil\" (Св. Василиј, \"Sv. Vasilij\")). Late on January 14, people gather outside their houses, in the center of their neighborhoods where they start a huge bonfire, and drink and eat together. Traditional Macedonian music is sung. For those who stay at home, it is tradition to eat home-made pita with a coin inside. Whoever finds the coin in his part is said to have luck during the year.\n\nMacedonians around the world also celebrate the holiday, especially in Australia, Canada and United States where the Macedonian Orthodox Church has adherents.\n\nThe tradition of the Old New Year has been kept in Palestine, Jordan, Armenia, Belarus, Uzbekistan, Bosnia and Herzegovina (mostly in Republika Srpska), Georgia, Azerbaijan, Kazakhstan, Montenegro, Moldova, Ukraine (Malanka), Wales (as Hen Galan) and Switzerland (as alter Silvester). In Scotland, the Old New Year has traditionally been held on 12 January. In the first half of the 20th century, large segments of the Scottish Gaelic community still observed the feast and today, it is still marked in South Uist and Eriskay as Oidhche Challaig and as Oidhche Challainn in Glenfinnan. Also in Scotland, the coastal town of Burghead in Morayshire celebrates the eve of the Old New Year with \"The Burning o' the Clavie\". Old New Year is the 12th of January in this district as well.\n\nThe Berbers of North Africa (from Morocco to Libya) traditionally celebrate the New Year on the \"Berber calendar\", which is very close to the Julian calendar. Because of certain calendar errors, the \"Berber New Year\" is celebrated in some areas on the 12th, rather than 14th, of January.\n\nThe Old New Year tradition has received mention in Russian art; the playwright Mikhail Roshchin wrote a comedy drama called \"The Old New Year\" in 1973, which was staged for many years. He also made it into a screenplay for a 1980 television film which featured music by Sergey Nikitin and poetry lyrics by Boris Pasternak. The film was released by Mosfilm studios.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48359914", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48359914", "title": "Opera in the Ozarks at Inspiration Point", "text": "Opera in the Ozarks at Inspiration Point\n\nOpera in the Ozarks at Inspiration Point is an annual summer opera festival and opera training program in Eureka Springs, Arkansas. Founded in 1950 by Henry Hobart and Gertrude Stockard, the festival serves as a training ground for young opera professionals. Several alumni of the festival have gone on to have prominent performing careers, including Mark Delavan, Stephen Dickson, Tom Fox, Carroll Freeman, Beverly Hoch, Hei-Kyung Hong, Sherman Ray Jacobs, William Johns, Patricia Johnson, Gwendolyn Jones, Marquita Lister, Chris Merritt, Leona Mitchell, Brian Montgomery, Latonia Moore, Louis Otey, Kay Paschal, Cyndia Sieden, Richard Vernon, and Jennifer Zetlan.\n\nHistory\n\nCharles Mowers, a German-born engineer and inventor, came from Texas to the Ozark Mountains around 1900 to hunt wild game. He bought the land known as the Big Rock Candy Mountain in 1928 and began construction of a “castle” based on his memories of buildings along the Rhine River. Using stone quarried on the property, he incorporated an unusual building method he called Egyptian Rock Work.\n\nAfter the stock market crash of 1929, Mowers abandoned his castle and returned to Texas. The castle was finished in 1932 by the Reverend Charles Scoville (1869–1938), a renowned preacher of the Disciples of Christ, who planned to use it as a retreat from his evangelistic labors. He named the site “Inspiration Point.” After his death, his widow gave the property to Phillips University in Enid, Oklahoma, for a conference and retreat center. Ten years later, however, this project was abandoned, and Henry Hobart, formerly dean of fine arts at Phillips, joined with Gertrude Stockard, director of music at Eureka Springs High School, to organize a music camp, Inspiration Point Fine Arts Colony (IPFAC), which held its first session in the summer of 1950. Hobart and his wife financed extensive repairs to the buildings with loans and donations from Eureka Springs businesses. Some furnishings were obtained from government surplus stores. Practice pianos were donated by area churches and schools.\n\n"}
{"id": "38719732", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38719732", "title": "PFDC Sunsilk Fashion Week", "text": "PFDC Sunsilk Fashion Week\n\nPFDC Sunsilk Fashion Week is an annually fashion event held in Lahore and Karachi in Pakistan. The event is organised by the \"Pakistan Fashion Design Council\" (PFDC) along with the sponsor of Sunsilk.\n\n1st PFDC Sunsilk Fashion Week was held on February 16–19, 2010 in Lahore.\n\n3rd PFDC Sunsilk Fashion Week was held in 2011 in Lahore and Karachi.\n\n5th PFDC Sunsilk Fashion Week was held in April 2012. The venue for the event was Expo Centre Lahore.\n\nThe 9th PFDC Sunsilk Fashion Week was held in March 2017. This four-day event was held in Lahore and showcased top Pakistani fashionn designers In addition to this, at least four new designers were also launched in collaboration with Bank Al Falah Rising Talent Segment..\n\nPFDC Sunsilk Fashion Week 2013\n\n"}
{"id": "1876600", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1876600", "title": "Paculla Annia", "text": "Paculla Annia\n\nPaculla Annia was a Campanian priestess of Bacchus. She is known only through the Roman historian Livy's account of the introduction, growth and spread of unofficial Bacchanalia festivals, which were ferociously suppressed in 186 BC under threat of extreme penalty. Paculla Annia is said to have presided over the corruption of Bacchus's mystery cult and its holy \"orgia\", starting around 188. Livy describes the Bacchanalia as hitherto reserved to women, a daylight ritual held on just three days of the year; Paculla Annia changed them to nocturnal rites, increased their frequency to five a month, opened them to all social classes and both sexes - starting with her own sons, Minius and Herennius Cerrinius -.and made wine-fueled violence and sexual promiscuity mandatory for all initiates. The cult was thought to function as a hidden state within the state, with particular appeal to those with \"leuitas animi\" (fickle or uneducated minds); the lower classes, plebeians, women, the young, morally weak, and \"men most like women\" were thought most susceptible but even men of the highest class were not immune. A virtuous ex-initiate and prostitute, Hispala Faecenia, though fearing the vengeance of the cult, revealed all to a shocked Roman senate. Once their investigation was complete, they suppressed the cult, saving Rome from the divine wrath and disaster it would otherwise have suffered. Livy claims that six thousand were executed, and that the arrests included Paculla's son, Minius Cerrineus. The legislation against the cult, or rather its forced reformation, is given in the Senatus consultum de Bacchanalibus. Paculla's fate is unknown.\n\nMost modern scholarship agrees that Dionysiac or Bacchic mystery cults had been practiced in Roman Italy for several decades before 186, and were considered acceptable by Roman authorities until this abrupt \"discovery\" and rapid suppression. Paculla Annia is unlikely to have introduced all the changes attributed to her by Livy; many of his \"dramatis personae\", stylistic flourishes and tropes may draw more on Roman satyr plays than on the Bacchanalia themselves. Hispala Faecina provides the dramatic trope of \"golden-hearted prostitute\", whose courageous testimony, goodness, and loyalty far outweigh her low origin, profession and fear of reprisal. Fontaine, assuming Plautus's \"Truculentus\" as contemporary with or no earlier than the events of 186, speculates its plot, themes and central character, the greedy, scheming, \"evil courtesan\" Phrynesium, arch-manipulator of men, as a \"thinly veiled and politically conservative allegory\" of Paculla Annia and her involvement with the Bacchanalia, particularly her illicit introduction of men into the cult, and its challenge to an established order and rule.\n\nThe \"Senatus consultum de Bacchanalibus\" has been interpreted as an assertion of Rome's civil and religious authority, either throughout the Italian peninsula or within Roman territories, following the recent Punic War and subsequent social and political instability. Illicit Bacchanals persisted covertly for many years, particularly in Southern Italy, their likely place of origin.\n"}
{"id": "51219438", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51219438", "title": "Pella Opera House", "text": "Pella Opera House\n\nThe Pella Opera House is a historic building located in Pella, Iowa, United States. Herman Rietveld, a local businessman and promoter, was the main backer for building the opera house, which was underwritten by the Pella Opera House Association. A previous opera house had been destroyed in a fire in the late 19th century. Pella architect Henry DeGooyer designed the four story, brick Romanesque Revival structure. He used the opera house in Sioux City, Iowa, as his guide. The locally produced orange-colored bricks are said to be distinctive to Pella.\n\nThe opera house opened in November 1900 and regularly served its intended purpose for only a few years. After that it sporadically hosted stage performances until 1918. The building was converted into a commercial building at that time. It continued to serve that purpose until the 1980s when the Pella Opera House Commission acquired the property and converted back into a live entertainment venue. A Des Moines architect, Lawrence M. Erickson, was architect for the rehabilitation project, completed in 1990. The building was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1992.\n"}
{"id": "2633071", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2633071", "title": "Perth Mint Swindle", "text": "Perth Mint Swindle\n\nThe Perth Mint Swindle is the popular name for the robbery of 49 gold bars weighing 68 kg from the Perth Mint in Western Australia on 22 June, 1982. The bullion was valued at A$653,000 at that time (2011:$2.02 million). , the value of the 68 kilograms of gold would approach AUD $3.7 Million.\n\nAccording to police at the time, three brothers, Ray, Peter and Brian Mickelberg, orchestrated the robbery. The three went to trial and were found guilty of the conspiracy and sentenced in 1983 to twenty, sixteen and twelve years in jail respectively.\n\nAll three convictions were overturned in 2004. To date the case remains unsolved and continues to be fought by the Mickelbergs who maintain their innocence and allege a conspiracy by the Western Australia Police to frame them.\n\nSoon after the robbery police investigations focused on the Mickelberg brothers. According to the police, the brothers stole cheques from a Perth building society and then fooled the mint into accepting those cheques in exchange for gold bullion which, it was alleged, the brothers had a courier pick up. The gold was picked up by a security company who delivered it to an office in Perth and then to Jandakot Airport, from where it seemingly disappeared.\n\nIn a separate matter, in September 1982, the three brothers, their parents and another man Brian Pozzi were charged over a matter relating to a manufactured gold nugget known as the \"Yellow Rose of Texas\". Perth Businessman Alan Bond had purchased the nugget for $350,000 in November 1980. It was later found to be worth less than $150,000 and Raymond Mickelberg and Brian Pozzi pleaded guilty to charges of conspiracy to fraud at their June 1984 trial.\n\nAfter serving nine months of his jail term and having his conviction overturned on appeal, Brian was released from jail but died in a light aircraft crash on 27 February 1986, when the twin-engined Aero Commander he was flying ran out of fuel near Canning Dam on the outskirts of Perth. Whilst in prison, Ray and Peter embarked on a series of seven appeals against their convictions, essentially on the grounds that their confessions had been fabricated by police investigators. Ray and Peter served eight and six years of their sentences respectively before being released on parole.\n\nIn 1989, 55 kg of gold pellets, said to have been from the swindle, were found outside the gates of TVW-7 (currently Channel Seven Perth), a Perth television station, with an anonymous note addressed to one of the station's reporters—Alison Fan—protesting the Mickelberg's innocence and claiming that a prominent Perth businessman was behind the swindle.\n\nThe senior investigating officer in the case was Detective-Sergeant Don Hancock who was later promoted to head of the State Criminal Investigation Bureau (CIB). Hancock and a friend, Lou Lewis, died in a bomb explosion outside Hancock's home in Lathlain in September 2001. Hancock was murdered by Gypsy Joker Sid Reid in revenge for the murder of Billy Grierson, allegedly by Hancock after Grierson \"made obscene comments in front of his daughter.\" A subsequent (2003) prosecution of an alleged accomplice was unsuccessful.\n\nAt the 2006 inquest into the October 2000 shooting death Billy Grierson, the coroner stated: \"There is a significant body of evidence which suggests Mr Hancock may have been the shooter,\" but the Gypsy Jokers \"could have a large number of enemies.\" he was unable to determine who Grierson's killer was because Hancock was now dead, police had failed to conduct routine forensic science tests and had failed to search Hancock's home. The relevant senior investigating officer was Kim Gage, head of Kalgoorlie detectives, who had reportedly spent the day drinking with Hancock and others. Reid was convicted of the murder and sentenced to life in jail which was reduced to 15 years for helping police in the failed second prosecution.\n\nIn 2002, midway through a State Royal Commission into police corruption, a retired police officer who had been at the centre of the case, Tony Lewandowski, made a confession of his involvement in fabricating evidence which was used to help frame the brothers. Lewandowski's senior officer during the investigation was Don Hancock. The two were the only persons present at the brothers' interviews following the Mickelberg arrests. \n\"(On that day), Don Hancock came into the room and told me to make Peter strip naked. Don then went up to Peter and gave him two or three quick punches in the solar plexus. The statements purportedly taken from Peter Mickelberg on July 26, 1982, were in fact not taken in Peter's presence that day, but were a fabrication made by Don Hancock and myself shortly after September 2, 1982. I gave evidence at the trial and numerous appeals. All that evidence in relation to the so-called confessions was false.\" —Statement of Tony Lewandowski\n\nLewandowski was subsequently charged with attempting to pervert the course of justice, making false statements, fabricating evidence and perjury. In May 2004, just before facing trial Lewandowski apparently committed suicide though there has been some speculation as to whether or not this may have been staged to cover his (possible) murder. Although now deceased, through Lewandowski's confession, Hancock was directly implicated in fabricating evidence in the Mickelberg case.\n\nIn July 2004 the Western Australian Court of Criminal Appeal quashed the brothers' convictions after seven unsuccessful attempts. The judge ruled that with the suppression of their sentence, they were entitled to a presumption of innocence. The Assistant Police Commissioner, Mel Hay, expressed disappointment with the decision which prompted a threat of a defamation lawsuit from the brothers. The brothers subsequently sued the Western Australian government for libel, and as part of the settlement, the West Australian police issued a public apology in December 2007.\n\nAfter lodging claims for compensation, in January 2008 State Attorney-General Jim McGinty offered $500,000 in ex-gratia payments to each brother for the \"injustice done to them\". The payment followed $658,672 paid to cover legal costs of their two appeals. The Mickelbergs' lawyer had asked for $950,000 in compensation for Ray and $750,000 for Peter.\n\nAuthor Avon Lovell wrote a book about the case in 1985: \"The Mickelberg Stitch\", which alleged questionable investigation practices by the police, including production of unsigned confessions and a forged fingerprint. The police union collected a levy of $1 per week from each member to fund legal action against Lovell and his publishers and distributors to suppress publication of the book. It was estimated that between one and two million dollars was raised. The book was banned by the State Government, but was still freely available to be read at the J S Battye Library. The ban was eventually lifted.\n\nA second book by Lovell, \"Split Image\", was published in 1990 and met a similar fate to the first. This ban was also lifted later.\n\nIn March 2011, Lovell launched a third book on the case, \"Litany of Lies\", at about the same time that Antonio Buti wrote on the subject\n\nTwo telemovies based on the swindle have been made.\n\n\nOne actor, Caroline McKenzie, appeared in both features, playing Detective Ljiljana Cvijic in the 1984 version and Peg Mickelberg in 2012.\n\n"}
{"id": "1464816", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1464816", "title": "Pinewood derby", "text": "Pinewood derby\n\nThe pinewood derby is a racing event for unpowered, unmanned miniature cars. Pinewood derbies are often run by chapters (packs) of the Cub Scouts program of Boy Scouts of America. With the help of adults, Scouts build their own cars from wood, usually from kits containing a block of pine wood, plastic wheels, and metal axles. With the popularity of the pinewood derby, other organizations have developed similar events, and a small industry has developed to provide organizer equipment (e.g. tracks, timers, and scales) and awards (e.g. trophies and ribbons). Similar Cub Scouting events include the raingutter regatta (a race for miniature boats) and the space derby (a race for rubber band-driven propeller shuttles).\n\nThe first pinewood derby was held on May 15, 1953 at the Scout House in Manhattan Beach, California by Cub Scout Pack 280C (the present Pack 713). The concept was created by the Pack's Cubmaster Don Murphy, and sponsored by the Management Club at North American Aviation.\n\nMurphy's son was too young to participate in the popular Soap Box Derby races, so he came up with the idea of racing miniature wood cars. The cars had the same gravity-powered concept as the full-size Soap Box Derby cars, but were much smaller and easier to build.\n\nThe pinewood derby had a sensational first year. Murphy and the Management Club of North American Aviation sent out thousands of brochures to anyone who requested more information. The idea spread rapidly, and competitions were held across the country, mainly with recreation departments and nonprofit organizations including the Los Angeles County Department of Recreation. Of all that early enthusiasm, however, only the Boy Scouts of America made it part of an official program. The National Director of Cub Scouting Service, O. W. (Bud) Bennett, wrote Murphy: \"We believe you have an excellent idea, and we are most anxious to make your material available to the Cub Scouts of America.\" Within the year, the Boy Scouts of America adopted the pinewood derby for use in all Cub Scout packs.\n\nIn its October 1954 issue, \"Boys' Life\" publicized the event and offered plans for the track and a car, which featured \"four wheels, four nails, and three blocks of wood.\"\n\nMurphy continued to run the derby program through the Management Club until his retirement from North American Aviation in 1978. He died in 2008.\n\nIn 2003, Pack 713 celebrated the 50th Pinewood Derby along with Packs 287, 759, 275, and former Cub Scouts from the 1953 Pack 280c. A shoulder patch for the Western Los Angeles County Council that depicted a pinewood derby car and a message of honor to Murphy was released to celebrate the 50th anniversary of the event.\n\nIn 1980, the design of the block was changed from a cutout block, consistent with a 1940s style front-engined Indy 500 car, to a rectangular block. The tires were also changed from narrow, hard plastic, to wider \"slicks.\"\n\nIn May 2005, the Boy Scouts of America registered Pinewood Derby as an official trademark.\n\nWhen using a kit sold through Boy Scouts of America (BSA), the Scout begins a block of wood, four plastic wheels, and four nails for axels. The finished car must use all nine pieces, must not exceed a certain weight (usually five ounces (150 grams)), must not exceed a certain width (usually 2-3/4 inches (7 cm)) and length (usually 7 inches (17.8 cm)) and must fit on the track used by that particular Scout pack.\n\nBlocks can be whittled with a hand knife, bandsaw, or Dremel carving tool for major shaping. Decals can be bought at Scout shops or hobby shops. It is also possible to use standard model decals to replicate actual racing cars such as Richard Petty's 1970 Plymouth Superbird. The original style is based on open-wheel cars; however, fender or body kits are available, or wheels can simply be placed outboard of the body.\n\nOther than the previous basic design rules, the Cub Scout is able to carve and decorate the car as he chooses. Cars vary from unfinished blocks to whimsical objects, to accurate replicas of actual cars. To improve racing performance, many Cub Scouts add weights (e.g. coins or other bits of metal) to the final design to bring the car to the maximum allowable weight. Axel friction can be reduced by polishing the nails, but graphite is usually the only lubricant allowed.\n\nThe Cub Scout organization intends that Scouts build their own pinewood derby cars and that parents have a secondary construction role. However, it is often the case that the parent takes over the construction of the car, an aspect of the event that was lampooned in the 2005 film \"Down and Derby\", and also in a 2009 episode of \"South Park\". The quest for a fast car supports a cottage industry that supplies modified wheels, axles, and blocks as well as videos and instruction books. While a pinewood derby car kit costs around US$4, a set of modified wheels and axles can sell for more than ten times that amount. Each pack sets its own rules under the guidelines set forth by the BSA and their particular local district. The aftermarket items are legal under some Pack rules since the parts originally came from an official BSA kit. Complete cars can be purchased on eBay and elsewhere for around $100 to $200, and PineCar, a subsidiary of Woodland Scenics, sells pre-cut or pre-made cars, as well as official kits. Although these cars violate the spirit of the event, if not the rules, enforcement can be difficult.\n\nModel manufacturer Revell was licensed by the BSA to produce pinewood derby kits with a release in December 2009.\n\nThe track usually has two to eight lanes and slopes down to the ground, since the cars are powered by gravity. Tracks may be owned by the pack or rented. The race is run in heats, giving every car the chance to run on each lane. The racers can be grouped with others from the same rank (Tiger Cubs, Wolf Cubs, Bear Cubs, etc.), or can compete against the pack as a whole.\n\nFirst, second, and third-place winners usually receive ribbons, medals, or trophies. Some packs also award on the basis of car design or styling. The first place race winners get to advance to the district level, then each of the district-wide race winners get to race each other from across the entire council.\n\nAs the popularity of the pinewood derby grew, other organizations adopted the concept. Pinewood derby is a registered trademark of the BSA, so most use different names. Each derby has slightly different rules for making and racing their cars.\n\nThe force accelerating a pinewood derby car is gravity; the opposing forces are friction and air drag. Therefore, car modifications are aimed at maximizing the potential energy in the car design and minimizing the air drag and the friction that occurs when the wheel spins on the axle, contacts the axle head or car body, or contacts the track guide rail. Friction due to air drag is a minor, although not insignificant, factor. The wheel tread can be sanded or turned on a lathe and the inner surface of the hub can be tapered to minimize the contact area between the hub and body. Polishing the wheel, especially the inner hub, with a plastic polish can also reduce friction. Often one front wheel is raised slightly so that it does not contact the track and add to the rolling resistance. Axles are filed or turned on a lathe to remove the burr and crimp marks and polished smooth. More extensive modifications involve tapering the axle head and cutting a notch to minimize the wheel-to-axle contact area. Packs can establish additional rules for what, if any, modifications are allowed. In some areas, no changes can be made to the axles or wheels.\n\nA second consideration is the rotational energy stored in the wheels. The pinewood derby car converts gravitational potential energy into translational kinetic energy (speed) plus rotational energy. Heavier wheels have a greater moment of inertia and their spinning takes away energy that would otherwise contribute to the speed of the car. A standard wheel has a mass of 2.6 g, but this can be reduced to as little as 1 g by removing material from the inside of the wheel. A raised wheel can reduce the rotational energy up to one-quarter, but this advantage is less with a bumpy track.\n\nAnother consideration is the track itself. A track that is mostly sloping, with little flat at the end, can allow cars with minimal mass in their wheels to shine. However, a track with a steep slope and then a long flat section can penalize such cars due to the quick loss of energy they experience once they have reached the bottom, when all potential energy has been transferred to kinetic and rotational energy. Such cars will take a lead on the downslope, but may be passed by cars with more energy \"stored\" away as rotational energy on the flat.\n\nA proper lubricant, typically graphite powder, is essential. Wheel alignment is important both to minimize wheel contact with the axle head and body as well as to limit the contact between the wheels and guide rail as the car travels down the track. There are 32 friction causing surfaces on a pinewood derby car. These include the surfaces of all four wheels which touch either the axle, the body or the track and the surfaces of all four axles which touch the wheel. Neglecting to polish and lubricate any of these 32 surfaces will result in degraded performance. The center of mass of a typical car is low and slightly ahead of the rear axle, which helps the car track straight as well as providing a slight advantage due to the additional gravitational potential energy.\n\nThe pinewood derby was selected as part of \"America's 100 Best\" in 2006 as \"a celebrated rite of spring\" by \"Reader's Digest\". The event has also been parodied by \"South Park\" in the episode \"Pinewood Derby\" and in the film \"Down and Derby\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44397938", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44397938", "title": "Revue (magazine)", "text": "Revue (magazine)\n\nRevue is a German language weekly illustrated magazine published in Luxembourg.\n\n\"Reveu\" was established in 1945. It was published by an independent publisher and was owned by a family. In 2000 the weekly was sold to Editpress.\n\nThe magazine provides news on TV programs and famous people including the members of Grand Ducal family.\n\n"}
{"id": "31805519", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31805519", "title": "Rimini Proclamation", "text": "Rimini Proclamation\n\nThe Rimini Proclamation was a proclamation on 30 March 1815 by Joachim Murat, who had been made king of Naples by Napoleon I. Murat had just declared war on Austria and used the proclamation to call on Italians to revolt against their Austrian occupiers and to show himself as a backer of Italian independence, in an attempt to find allies in his desperate battle to hang onto his throne. It began:\nThe proclamation impressed Alessandro Manzoni, who wrote a poem later that year entitled \"Il proclama di Rimini\", but he left it unfinished after Murat's military campaign failed.\n\n"}
{"id": "4415837", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4415837", "title": "Roman Question", "text": "Roman Question\n\nThe Roman Question (; ) was a dispute regarding the temporal power of the popes as rulers of a civil territory in the context of the Italian Risorgimento. It ended with the Lateran Pacts between King Victor Emmanuel III of Italy and Pope Pius XI in 1929.\n\nOn 9 February 1849, the Roman Republic took over the government of the Papal States. In the following July, an intervention by French troops restored Pope Pius IX to power, making the Roman Question a hotly debated one even in the internal politics of France.\n\nIn July 1859, after France and Austria made an agreement that ended the short Second Italian War of Independence, an article headed \"The Roman Question\" in the \"Westminster Review\" expressed the opinion that the Papal States should be deprived of the Adriatic provinces and be restricted to the territory around Rome. This became a reality in the following year, when most of the Papal States were annexed by what became the Kingdom of Italy.\n\nOn February 18, 1861, the deputies of the first Italian Parliament assembled in Turin. On March 17, 1861, the Parliament proclaimed Victor Emmanuel II King of Italy, and on March 27, 1861, Rome was declared Capital of the Kingdom of Italy. However, the Italian Government could not take its seat in Rome because a French garrison (which had overthrown the Roman Republic), maintained there by Napoleon III of France, commanded by general Christophe Léon Louis Juchault de Lamoricière, was defending Pope Pius IX. Following the signing of the September Convention, the seat of government was moved from Turin to Florence in 1865.\n\nThe Pope remained totally opposed to the designs on Rome of Italian nationalism. Beginning in December 1869, the First Vatican Council was held in the city. Some historians have argued that its proclamation of the doctrine of papal infallibility in July 1870 had political as well as theological causes.\n\nIn July 1870, the Franco-Prussian War began. In early August, Napoleon III recalled his garrison from Rome and could no longer protect what remained of the Papal States. Widespread public demonstrations demanded that the Italian government take Rome. The Italian government took no direct action until the collapse of Napoleon at the battle of Sedan. King Victor Emmanuel II then sent Count Gustavo Ponza di San Martino to Pius IX with a personal letter offering a proposal that would have allowed the peaceful entry of the Italian Army into Rome, under the guise of protecting the pope.\n\nAccording to Raffaele De Cesare:\nThe Italian army, commanded by General Raffaele Cadorna, crossed the frontier on 11 September and advanced slowly toward Rome, hoping that an unopposed entry could be negotiated. The Italian army reached the Aurelian Walls on 19 September and placed Rome under a state of siege. Pius IX decided that the surrender of the city would be granted only after his troops had put up a token resistance, enough to make it plain that the takeover was not freely accepted. On 20 September, after a cannonade of three hours had breached the Aurelian Walls at Porta Pia, the Bersaglieri entered Rome (see capture of Rome). Forty-nine Italian soldiers and 19 Papal Zouaves died. Rome and the region of Lazio were annexed to the Kingdom of Italy after a plebiscite.\n\nAgain, according to Raffaele De Cesare:\nPope Pius IX and succeeding popes Leo XIII, Pius X, Benedict XV, and Pius XI took great care not to recognize the legitimacy of the Italian government following the capture of Rome. Several options were considered, including giving the city a status similar to that of Moscow at the time (which, despite being the capital of Russia, was not the seat of government), but there was widespread agreement that Rome must be the capital to ensure the survival of the new state. However, Victor Emmanuel II of Italy refused to take residence in the Quirinal Palace, and foreign powers were likewise uneasy with the move. The British ambassador noted the apparent contradiction of a secular government sharing the city with a religious government, while the French foreign minister wrote:\n\nIf [Italy] would consent to view Florence as the seat of government, it would solve the Papal question. It would show great sense, and the political credit it would thereby garner, as well as the honor, would offer a considerable advantage...Rome, under royal rule—an integral part of the Italian nation, but remaining Holy or, better yet, the Dominant center of the domain of the faith—would lose none of its prestige and would redound to Italy's credit. And conciliation would then come about naturally, because the pope would become accustomed to seeing himself as living in his own home, not having a king around.\n\nHowever, the government refused such suggestions and the king eventually took up residence in the Quirinal Palace. Regarded by Roman citizens as the ultimate sign of authority in the city, the Quirinal had been built and used by previous popes. When asked for the keys, Pius IX reportedly said, \"Whom do these thieves think they are kidding asking for the keys to open the door? Let them knock it down if they, like Bonaparte's soldiers, when they wanted to seize Pius VI, came through the window, but even they did not have the effrontery to ask for the keys\". A locksmith was later hired.\n\nItaly's Law of Guarantees, passed by the senate and chamber of the Italian parliament on 13 May 1871, accorded the Pope certain honors and privileges similar to those enjoyed by the King of Italy, including the right to send and receive ambassadors who would have full diplomatic immunity, just as if he still had temporal power as ruler of a state. The law was intended to attempt to avoid further antagonizing the pope following unification and was roundly criticized by anti-clerical politicians of all alignments, but particularly on the left. At the same time, it subjected the papacy to a law that the Italian parliament could modify or abrogate at any time.\n\nPope Pius IX and his successors refused to recognize the right of the Italian king to reign over what had formerly been the Papal States, or the right of the Italian government to decide his prerogatives and make laws for him. Asserting that the Holy See needed to maintain clearly manifested independence from any political power in its exercise of spiritual jurisdiction, and that the Pope should not appear to be merely a \"chaplain of the King of Italy\", Pius IX rejected the Law of Papal Guarantees with its offer of an annual financial payment to the Pope.\n\nDespite the Italian state's repeated assurances of the Pope's absolute liberty of movement within Italy and abroad, the popes refused to set foot outside the walls of the Vatican and thereby put themselves under the protection of the Italian forces of law and order, an implicit recognition of the changed situation. Consequently, the description \"prisoners of the Vatican\" was applied to them, until the Lateran Treaty of 1929 settled the Roman Question by establishing Vatican City as an independent state.\n\nDuring this time, Italian nobility who owed their titles to the Holy See rather than the Kingdom of Italy became known as the Black Nobility as they were considered to be in mourning.\n\nSeveral times during his pontificate, Pius IX considered leaving Rome a second time. He had fled Rome in disguise in November 1848, following the assassination of his Minister of Finance, Count Pellegrino Rossi. One occurrence was in 1862, when Giuseppe Garibaldi was in Sicily gathering volunteers for a campaign to take Rome under the slogan \"Roma o Morte\" (Rome or Death). On 26 July 1862, before Garibaldi and his volunteers were stopped at Aspromonte,\nAnother instance and rumours of others occurred after the Capture of Rome and the suspension of the First Vatican Council. These were confided by Otto von Bismarck to Julius Hermann Moritz Busch:\n\nThe Lateran Treaty resolved the Roman Question in 1929; the Holy See acknowledged Italian sovereignty over the former Papal States and Italy recognized papal sovereignty over Vatican City. The Holy See limited its request for indemnity for the loss of the Papal States and of ecclesiastical property confiscated by the Italian State to much less than would have been due to it under the Law of Guarantees.\n\nHistorical dramas such as \"Fabiola\" and \"Quo Vadis\" have been interpreted as comparing the treatment of the popes by the newly formed Kingdom of Italy to the persecution of early Christians in the Roman Empire.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34092671", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34092671", "title": "Shadow banning", "text": "Shadow banning\n\nShadow banning (also called stealth banning, ghost banning or comment ghosting) is the act of blocking or partially blocking a user or their content from an online community such that it will not be readily apparent to the user that they have been banned.\n\nBy making a user's contributions invisible or less prominent to other members of the service, the hope may be that in the absence of reactions to their comments, the problematic or otherwise out-of-favour user will become bored or frustrated and leave the site.\n\nIn the mid-1980s, BBS forums including \"Citadel\" BBS software had a \"twit bit\" for problematic users. When enabled, the user would have limited access, and commonly still be able to read public discussions; however, any messages posted by that \"twit\" would not be shown to the other users of that group.\n\nMichael Pryor of Fog Creek Software described stealth banning for online forums in 2006, saying how such a system was in place in the project management system FogBugz, \"to solve the problem of how do you get the person to go away and leave you alone\". As well as preventing problem users from engaging in flame wars, the system also discouraged spammers, who if they returned to the site would be under the false impression that their spam was still in place. \"The Verge\" describes it as \"one of the oldest moderation tricks in the book\", noting that early versions of vBulletin had a global ignore list known as \"Tachy goes to Coventry\", as in the British expression \"to send someone to Coventry\", meaning to ignore them and pretend they don't exist.\n\nA 2012 update to Hacker News introduced a system of \"hellbanning\" for spamming and abusive behavior.\n\nCraigslist has also been known to \"ghost\" a user's individual ads, whereby the poster gets a confirmation email and may view the ad in their account, but the ad fails to show up in the appropriate category page.\n\nEarly on, Reddit implemented a similar feature, initially designed to address spam accounts, though it is also used for general users. In 2015, Reddit added an account suspension feature, though the site still makes extensive use of shadow banning. \n\nWeChat was found in 2016 to ban posts and messages that contain certain keywords without notice.\n\nIn a study that looked at tweets from 2014 to early 2015, over a quarter million tweets were found during the one year period in Turkey to have been censored via shadow banning. Twitter was also found, in 2015, to shadowban tweets containing leaked documents in the US.\n\nThe phenomenon was noticed on Instagram in 2017; there, certain posts have been seen to be unavailable to people who do not follow one in hashtag searches.\n\n\"Shadow banning\" became popularized in 2018 as a conspiracy theory that Twitter had shadow-banned Republicans. In late July 2018, \"Vice News\" found that several supporters of the US Republican Party no longer appeared in the auto-populated drop-down search menu on Twitter, thus limiting their visibility when being searched for - allegedly due to the same algorithm that was being used to do the same to the accounts of prominent racists. After that finding, some conservatives accused Twitter of enacting a shadowban on Republican accounts, which Twitter flatly denied. However, some accounts that were not overtly political or conservative apparently had the same algorithm applied to them. In a blog post, Twitter said that the use of the phrase \"shadow banning\" was inaccurate, as the tweets were still visible by navigating to the home page of the relevant account. Later, Twitter restored the affected accounts.\n\n"}
{"id": "54957718", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54957718", "title": "Shooting of Kian delos Santos", "text": "Shooting of Kian delos Santos\n\nOn the evening of August 16, 2017, a 17-year-old Filipino student named Kian Loyd delos Santos was fatally shot by police officers conducting an anti-drug operation in Caloocan, Metro Manila. The case became controversial when the official police reports differed from witness accounts and CCTV footage.\n\nIn accordance with his campaign promise, President Rodrigo Duterte initiated the war on drugs shortly after he took office on June 30, 2016. As of July 26, 2017, the Philippine Information Agency reported 68,000 anti-drug operations which resulted in around 97,000 arrests, 1.3 million surrenders, and around 3,500 drug personalities killed in legitimate police operations. Thousands of others have been killed by vigilantes, which the police have categorized as \"deaths under investigation\". The night of August 14–15, just prior to Delos Santos's death, was the \"bloodiest night\" in the Philippine drug war, where dozens of police operations resulted in 32 drug suspects killed and more than 100 arrested in the province of Bulacan.\n\nKian Loyd D. delos Santos (May 26, 2000 – August 16, 2017) was 17 years old at the time of his death and was a resident of Barangay 160, Caloocan. Delos Santos was the third of four siblings. His mother, Lorenza, worked as a domestic helper in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, while his father, Saldy, operated a sari-sari store which was manned by Kian from 5:30 a.m. to 12:00 p.m. every day before he went to school. After closing the store at night, he would usually walk around the block for some small talk with neighborhood friends. At the time of his death, he was a Grade 11 (senior high school) student at Our Lady of Lourdes College in Valenzuela. His high school principal stated that Delos Santos was never summoned to his office for any delinquency or misconduct. According to a classmate and close friend of his, Delos Santos wanted to become a cadet of the Philippine National Police Academy. Delos Santos was also in favor of the government's war on drugs,\naccording to another classmate.\n\nBoth Senior Superintendent Chito Bersaluna, the Police Chief of Caloocan, and Chief Inspector Amor Cerillo, the commander of the local Police Community Precinct, have separately admitted that Delos Santos was not on their police watch list. However, they believed that he was a drug runner \"based on a statement of another arrested drug suspect\". The officials of Barangay 160, Caloocan also confirmed that Delos Santos was not on their drugs watch list.\n\nOn August 26, 2017, a Catholic funeral Mass for Delos Santos was held at 8 a.m., at a parish in Sta. Quiteria, Caloocan; it was attended by his family and friends, and hundreds of other people, including human rights advocates. At around 2 p.m., Delos Santos was interred at La Loma Cemetery.\n\nAt around 8:00 p.m PST on August 16, 2017, officers of the Philippine National Police (PNP) led by PO3 Arnel Oares, were conducting a \"one-time, big-time\" anti-illegal drugs operation in Barangay 160, Caloocan where Delos Santos lived. During the anti-drug operation, Delos Santos went missing for almost an hour, which prompted his family to look for him at the nearest police station but failed to find him there. Several gunshots were then heard.\n\nAt 8:57 p.m., C/Insp. Amor Cerillo and another police officer, both in plainclothes, arrived at the hall of Barangay 160 to report a supposed shootout. In a muddy and dark alley near his house, which was the site of the alleged encounter, Delos Santos was found in fetal position with gunshot wounds to his head. Recovered from his corpse were a .45-caliber pistol, four cartridges, and two sachets of suspected methamphetamine.\n\nAccording to the official police report, at around 8:45 p.m, Delos Santos tried to flee when he noticed the police officers approaching him. He then drew his gun and \"directly shot\" towards the police, which prompted PO3 Arnel Oares to fire back in self-defense, killing Delos Santos. The pistol, cartridges, and two sachets of methamphetamine were then found in Delos Santos's possession.\n\nAccording to Cerillo and Bersaluna, a drug dealer that they earlier arrested claimed that Delos Santos was the mule of \"Neneng\" Escopino, a local drug dealer on the police watch list.\n\nWitnesses claim that Delos Santos was just loitering near his house at around 8:00 p.m., when two unidentified men grabbed him and led him away. The barangay's CCTV footage of the incident shows that at 8:24 p.m., a young man believed to be Delos Santos was being dragged by two men in plainclothes towards the area where his corpse would be later found. The video also showed a third man that headed towards the same direction.\n\nCerillo confirmed that the two men in the video were plainclothes police officers. He also clarified that the person being dragged was not Delos Santos, but rather a police asset. Bersaluna and Cirillo also clarified that police officers are not required to wear their uniforms during anti-illegal drugs operations.\n\nTwo witnesses who approached Dominic Almelor of ABS-CBN News claimed that Delos Santos was blindfolded by the two men and forced to hold a gun, fire it, and run. Another witness who approached Saleema Refran of GMA News claimed that Delos Santos begged for his life before getting shot. Afterwards, the shooters approached the witness and asked him if he knew the victim, which he denied. The witness later confirmed that the men who were filmed inside the barangay hall reporting the alleged shootout were the same men who shot Delos Santos.\n\nA 13-year-old witness interviewed by \"The Manila Bulletin\" claimed that she saw Delos Santos being punched and slapped by four armed plainclothes officers before he was dragged away.\n\nDelos Santos's uncle, Randy, questioned the police claim that the victim had a concealed firearm, since his nephew was wearing boxers at that time. Delos Santos's father, Saldy, also pointed out that the pistol was recovered from the left hand of his otherwise right-handed son.\n\nMany Filipino netizens expressed outrage over Delos Santos's death. Both the hashtag #JusticeforKian and the phrase \"Kian delos Santos\" were among the top Philippine trends on Twitter on August 18. A rally titled \"Himagsikan para kay Kian\" (\"Revolution for Kian\") took place on August 21 (Ninoy Aquino Day) at the People Power Monument in Quezon City. Among the groups present were Akbayan, Alliance of Progressive Labor, Alyansa Tigil Mina, Sentro, Partido ng Manggagawa, Kalipunan ng Kilusang Masa, Block Marcos, Silent Minorities, and Kalipun. Senator Bam Aquino, former Bayan Muna Representative Teddy Casiño, and former Education Secretary Armin Luistro were also present. A moment of silence was held at 8:24 p.m., the same time Delos Santos was allegedly filmed being dragged by police officers on August 16. The protesters—numbering from 500 to 1,000—also called for the investigation of other drug war killings.\n\nEarlier that same day, the Liberal Party Youth, with the support of other groups, also held a rally at Plaza Miranda in Manila, denouncing Delos Santos's killing. The rally also commemorated the 1971 Plaza Miranda bombing and the 1983 Assassination of Senator Ninoy Aquino.\n\nDuring a press briefing on August 18, Presidential Spokesperson Ernesto Abella called the shooting of Delos Santos an \"isolated\" incident, and added \"[President Duterte] will defend the police in their carrying out of duties. However, he will also not tolerate any abuse and any breaches of the law\". On August 19, in an interview with Radyo Pilipinas, Assistant to the Presidential Spokesperson China Jocson stated: \"Presidential Spokesperson Ernesto Abella would like to make it clear that the violent death of any Filipino is one death too many, especially that of Kian Loyd delos Santos. This deeply regrettable incident has triggered deep public sentiment, and challenges those in law enforcement to be wary of the reckless exercise of power and authority.\" Also on the same day, the Department of Education released a statement saying it \"strongly condemns\" the killing of grade 11 student Kian Delos Santos and that while it acknowledged \"efforts to battle illegal drugs,\" it maintained that \"upholding the rule of law should not be compromised.\" The agency also said that it \"denounces all forms of violence against our students, teachers, and personnel.\" Also on August 19, during an emergency peace and order council meeting, Caloocan Mayor Oscar Malapitan said \"It seems hard to believe that a 17-year-old would shoot it out with three police officers\" and added: \"even if Kian were indeed a drug pusher, he shouldn't have been killed unless the cops were only defending themselves. The public perception is that the cops killed Kian when he was obviously helpless.\"\n\nSenator JV Ejercito, through a series of tweets, described the incident as \"very very disturbing\" pointing out that Delos Santos was the same age as his eldest son. He recommended that the police officers involved should all be legally prosecuted. Senator Joel Villanueva called it the \"breakdown of our humanity, with people cheering the killings of individuals who have not been proven guilty\" and added that \"we cannot allow lawlessness in this country\". In a statement, Senator Francis Escudero described the police officers involved as \"killers and criminals\". While Senator Sonny Angara called for the reform of the justice system and decried vigilante justice and killings. In a statement, National Youth Commission chairperson Aiza Seguerra said: \"We want to curb the drug menace; however, we are alarmed by the deaths and injury of minors in the process.\" Senators Antonio Trillanes, Risa Hontiveros, Win Gatchalian, and Loren Legarda also condemned the shooting of Delos Santos. Meanwhile, Senator Panfilo Lacson, a former police director general, insinuated that the PNP would cover up the incident.\n\nOn August 20, Vice President Leni Robredo visited the wake of Delos Santos and inspected the site of the shooting. On her weekly radio show on DZXL, Robredo condemned the shooting, saying: \"\"kung nangyari sa kanya, puwedeng mangyari sa mga anak natin\" (if it happened to him, it could also happen to our children)\" and later added \"\"[I]lan na ba iyong Kian na dumaan? Ilan pa ba iyong Kian na mangyayari? Kaya tayo naman, kapag ganito, tingin ko obligasyon natin ipahayag iyong ating pagkamuhi sa ganitong klaseng pangyayari\" (How many Kians have we had? How many more Kians will follow? That's why when this happens, I think it is our obligation to express our condemnation)\". During the visit, Robredo was accompanied by human rights lawyer Jose Manuel Diokno of the Free Legal Assistance Group (FLAG), who offered his legal services to the Delos Santos family. Other politicians who visited the wake include Senators Bam Aquino, Risa Hontiveros, and Antonio Trillanes, Kabataan Partylist representative Sarah Elago, Caloocan Mayor Oscar Malapitan, and former Vice President Jejomar Binay. Representatives from Amnesty International, the Commission on Human Rights, and Iglesia ni Cristo also visited Delos Santos's wake.\n\nKalookan Bishop Pablo Virgilio David condemned the shooting, calling it a \"very specific case of abuse\". Bishop David also criticized the ongoing drug war and the alleged abuses by the police. Father Antonio Moreno, head of the Society of Jesus in the Philippines, called Delos Santos's death a \"heartless killing\". Fellow Jesuit Father Jose Ramon Villarin, president of Ateneo de Manila University, also condemned the killing of Delos Santos. Lasallian Brother Armin Luistro, former Secretary of Education, called for \"a minute of silence every night at 8:24 p.m. to remember Kian Loyd delos Santos and all innocent victims of merciless deaths in our land\". Lingayen-Dagupan Archbishop Socrates Villegas, who is also the president of the Catholic Bishops' Conference of the Philippines (CBCP), ordered the churches in his archdiocese to ring their bells from 8:00 to 8:15 p.m. every night from August 22 to November 27 in honor of Delos Santos, and as \"a call to stop approval of the killings.\"\n\nThe chief of the Philippine National Police (PNP), Director General Ronald dela Rosa expressed regret over Delos Santos's death, saying he was \"very sorry for what happened\". However, he added that he would rather see his police officers alive than dead. Dela Rosa also promised an investigation on the killing, saying: \"Basta pag merong pang-aabuso hindi ko palalampasin 'yan\". (\"If there was indeed abuse [of authority] I will not let it pass\"). Despite the incident, he guaranteed that the campaign against illegal drugs would continue. He also refused to visit Delos Santos's wake, believing it was inappropriate for him to do so, since the main suspects were police officers. He also claimed that visiting the wake would make him pretentious like the politicians.\n\nWhen President Rodrigo Duterte saw the CCTV tape, he immediately called PNP Chief Ronald Bato Dela Rosa, and said \"hulihin mo na at kulungin mo [ang mga pulis na dawit sa pagkasawi ni Kian]\" (bring those policemen who are involved in Kian's killing to jail). The president also warned some police officers, for they are abusing their powers to do so.\n\nThe four police officers, who were tagged in the shooting of Delos Santos, were relieved from their posts. An autopsy was conducted on August 20, showed that Delos Santos sustained three gunshot wounds: the first entry point was at the back of the head, the second entry point was behind the left ear and the third entry point was inside the left ear.\n\nThe family of Delos Santos, on August 25, filed murder and torture charges against police officers involved in the drug operation.\n\nThree Caloocan City policemen Police Officer 3 Arnel Oares, PO1 Jeremiah Pereda and Jerwin Cruz were found guilty of killing Kian Lloyd delos Santos during an anti-narcotics and were sentenced to life in prison for murdering a teenager during a drug sting in 2017 by Caloocan Regional Trial Court Branch 125 Judge Rodolfo Azucena sentenced the three policemen to life in prison without the possibility of parole on November 29, 2018.</ref>\n\nThe case of Kian delos Santos has been likened to the cases of other teenagers, 19-year-old Carl Arnaiz and 14-year-old Reynaldo \"Kulot\" De Guzman.\n\nArnaiz went missing for ten days; his dead body found on August 28 in a morgue in Caloocan. According to the Caloocan police Arnaiz was involved in a robbery at C-3 road. The police said that he declared a robbery to the driver of the vehicle he allegedly hit, and drew a gun. The driver reportedly sought help from the police and Arnaiz successfully shot PO1 Jefrey Perez and PO1 Ricky Arquta who in turn fired in retaliation causing the teenager's death. The police claimed in an August 30 report that they retrieved two packs of marijuana in his pocket and three packs of a substance suspected to be methamphetamine in his backpack.\n\nA Cainta, Rizal resident, Arnaiz left his house with de Guzman to eat midnight snacks on August 17 according to his parents. Arnaiz's father says that his son's only vice is smoking and denied he possessed said contraband.\n\nDe Guzman's alleged body was found floating in Kinamatayang Kabayo creek in the town of Gapan, Nueva Ecija. De Guzman's father theorized that his son may have been killed so he could not testify against the killers of Arnaiz. The Philippine National Police conducted a DNA test on the corpse and said that the body is not De Guzman's. However, his parents dispute the findings saying that they are certain that the body is that of their son.\n\nNotes\nReferences\n"}
{"id": "41346747", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41346747", "title": "Sound Diplomacy", "text": "Sound Diplomacy\n\nSound Diplomacy is a London, Barcelona and Berlin-based music agency.\n\nSound Diplomacy was founded in May 2013 by Shapiro, UK representative for the Canadian Independent Music Association (CIMA, formerly CIRPA), and the former UK head of Jordi Puy. Katja Hermes became the director of the company’s German office in November 2013.\nSound Diplomacy launched with clients including CIMA, HootSuite, ICEC and Osheaga MEG Pro. In October 2013, Sound Diplomacy partnered with Martin Elbourne and Spanish promoter Xavi Manresa to launch a new boutique showcase in Catalonia, 'Lleida Sessions Pro'.\n\nAlso in October 2013, Sound Diplomacy reached an agreement to represent the Spanish music conference 'Bizkaia International Music Experience (BIME)' in countries such as UK, Canada, Australia, South Africa, Colombia and Uruguay.\nIn November 2013, Sound Diplomacy established a partnership with Nouvelle Prague, a showcase festival that takes place in Prague, Czech Republic. In April 2014 Sound Diplomacy hired artist manager Danny Keir, who previously had worked at Black Book Management with artists such as Razorlight, Noisettes, Glitches and Lucy Rose. \n\nIn addition, Sound Diplomacy started working on Mixcloud's #Curates conference, the online distribution service Music Kickup, South African festival Parklife, in-flight content for Iberia with content marketing agency Spafax, on the first music business event in Costa Rica called Epicentro, Germany, the Adam Mickiewicz Institute in Poland and Berklee College of Music and their online degree program.\n\nIn 2018 they delivered the first ever music focused panel at the United Nations World Urban Forum, outlining how music is a highly effective tool in delivering the UN's Strategic Development Goals. In November 2018 a white paper co-written by Sound Diplomacy and Pro Colombia (commissioned by the United Nations World Travel Organisation) was launched at the World Travel Market in London. The white paper outlines how destinations around the world could use music tourism strategies to drive profile, visitors and associated revenues.\n\nIn October 2018 Sound Diplomacy, in association with Found in Music, initiated an inquiry at the House of Lords examining the full value of music in society. The 5 evidence meetings (between October 2018 and March 2019) Chaired by Lord Tim Clement-Jones investigate the role of music in a number of government related topics including future-proof skills learning (for a future AI led workplace), public health, the ageing population and economic development.\n\nIn November 2013, Shain Shapiro was nominated as a finalist for The Hospital Club's #100 list in the British Council's Creative Entrepreneurs Category for his work at Sound Diplomacy.\n\nSound Diplomacy were shortlisted for Best Hackney Business at The Mayor of Hackney's Business Awards 2015. \n\n"}
{"id": "44348033", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44348033", "title": "Sábado (magazine)", "text": "Sábado (magazine)\n\nSábado is a Portuguese weekly news magazine published in Portugal. It is the first modern news magazine in the country.\n\n\"Sábado\" was established in 1988 and closed down in 1993. The magazine was relaunched by Cofina on 7 May 2004. It is published on a weekly basis and covers news on politics, society, culture, sports and leisure.\n\nThe 2005 circulation of \"Sábado\" was 48,737 copies. The weekly had a circulation of 65,000 copies in 2007. Its circulation was 76,924 copies in 2010 and 74,431 copies in 2011. It was 66,456 copies in 2012. The magazine had a circulation of 57,261 copies between September and October 2013.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1345798", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1345798", "title": "T in the Park", "text": "T in the Park\n\nT in the Park festival was a major Scottish music festival that was held annually from 1994-2016. It is named after its main sponsor, the brewing company Tennents. The event was originally held at Strathclyde Park, Lanarkshire but was held at the disused Balado airfield, Kinross-shire from 1997 to 2014. In 2015 the festival moved to Strathallan Castle, Strathallan, Perthshire. Originally a two-day event, the festival became a three-day event in 2007. Promoted by DF Concerts, the event attracts up to 255,000 people, along with 70,000 campers. \n\nThe 2017 event was cancelled due to problems at the 2016 event. It was officially replaced with the TRNSMT festival which takes place on the same weekend at Glasgow Green. The 2017 festival was a success and was followed in 2018 with TRNSMT again. \n\nThe festival was founded in 1994 by Stuart Clumpas and Geoff Ellis, as part of a joint venture between DF Concerts and Tennent's Lager with some help from Irish promotions company MCD Productions. Stuart Clumpas left as an organiser in 2001, selling his commercial interests in the concert.\n\nCurrent festival director Geoff Ellis was involved from the start. Ellis came to Scotland in 1992 to manage King Tut's Wah Wah Hut in Glasgow. He organised the first T in the Park festival in 1994 with a smattering of bands playing to 17,000 people at its original site at Strathclyde Park, Lanarkshire. The festival was held there for three years until 1997, where it was held at the disused Balado airfield, Kinross-shire. After moving to Balado the festival grew larger and by 2003, the festival was attracting up to 255,000 people; 110,000 over the weekend.\n\nThe festival was originally a two-day event until 2007, when the Friday became a mainstay event for live music. However, the 2007 festival was criticised by many festival-goers who missed acts on the Friday due to huge traffic jams of 10 miles on the A91 and A977 leading to Kinross. To prevent a repeat of the traffic chaos, in 2008 organisers allowed a limited number of campers to pitch up on the Thursday in order to cut the number of cars on the roads on the Friday. By extending the festival over a full three days, it began to grow rapidly, becoming the second-largest greenfield festival in the United Kingdom, and the fifth-largest in the world in terms of attendance, with over 85,000 people on site everyday.\n\nAs of 2013, it attracted up to 255,000 people over three days, drawing fans from across Britain and Europe. According to DF Concerts, 20% of the crowd is made up of visitors from outside Scotland, with about 2% attending from overseas. In recent years, the festival has shared much of its line-up with Oxegen, a festival that takes place on the same weekend in County Kildare, Ireland. Acts usually play T in the Park one day and Oxegen the next, or vice versa. In an attempt to boost ticket sales, the 2014 festival saw an extension of the acts' duration on stage. On the Friday, the acts were scheduled to start around lunchtime as opposed to 5 pm; and the Saturday headliners to finish at 1 am.\n\nThe 2014 festival was the last to take place at the Balado site. Despite having run on the same site since 1997, safety concerns were expressed about the Forties Pipeline, which runs directly underneath the former Balado airfield.\n\nIn 2015 the festival moved 20.54 miles to the Strathallan Castle Estate in the neighbouring county of Perthshire. The 2016 event was marred by the deaths of three festival-goers and reports of anti-social behaviour problems at the campsite. This led festival bosses to cancel the 2017 event, making the festival's future uncertain.\n\nTennents Lager is brewed just 36 hours before T in the Park at the Wellpark Brewery in Glasgow, 44 miles from Balado. Nearly all the lager is brewed specifically for the weekend. More than 3 million pints of lager have been consumed at the festival since 1994.\n\nAn innovative bar-cup recycling scheme was introduced in 2006 paying a 10p deposit on every empty pint container brought back to a designated recycling point.\n\nThe first T in the Park was held on Saturday 30 July – Sunday 31 July 1994 at Strathclyde Country park. The site had a capacity for 17,000 people on each of the two days, with just 2000 choosing to camp.\n\nThe Caledonia Stage, was introduced to showcase up and coming new bands. A band called Glass Onion played over the weekend who would later be better known as Travis.\n\nWas held on Saturday 5 August – Sunday 6 August 1995 at Strathclyde Country park. This was the first year there was a sell out on one of the days. Noel Gallagher joined Paul Weller on stage, while Kermit from the Black Grapes' had broken his ankle earlier in the day but refused to go to hospital instead performed with the rest of the band whilst sitting down on the stage.\n\nThe Dance Tent was introduced this year, but no official line was used, it became the Slam Tent in 1997.\n\nWas held on Saturday 13 July – Sunday 14 July 1996, and was the last time at Strathclyde Country park. The Saturday was a sell out for the first time in advance. Radiohead closed the Main Stage on Saturday night and Pulp closing on the Sunday. This was also the year that Keanu Reeves arrived on a shuttle bus to play the festival with his band Dogstar, and Joe Strummer busked in the campsite\n\nCaledonia Stage was renamed the T Break, where unsigned acts from across Scotland are given a platform to showcase their music at T in the Park. Each year, a panel made up of music industry experts hand-picked 16 artists from over a thousand entries to platform.\n\nIn 1997, T in the Park moved from Strathclyde Park to its home for the next 17 years, Balado near Kinross, on a disused Airfield, and was held on Saturday 12 July – Sunday 13 July 1997. This was The Slam Tent’s first year, while The campsite grown to over 25,000.\n\nT In The Park 1998 was held on Saturday 11 July 1998 – Sunday 12 July 1998. Large television screens were used to allow football fans to watch the 1998 World cup final.\n\nLine up included;\n\nIt was held on Saturday 10 July 1999 and Sunday 11 July 1999, with 50,000 people per day. Two days before, It was revealed few tickets were still available for the Sunday performances.\n\nThis was held on Saturday 8 and Sunday 9 July 2000, with 50,000 people attending. It was Travis' first appearance, as an unsigned band closed the Main Stage. It was All Saints' last Scottish appearance.\n\nT in the park 2001 was held between Saturday 7th to Sunday 8 July 2001, with approximately 50,000 people attending.\n\nThe 2002 event attracted approximately 50,000 people on both the Saturday and Sunday.\n\nThe 2003 event attracted approximately 55,000 people on both the Saturday and Sunday, with REM and Coldplay.\n\nThe 2004 edition attracted approximately 60,000 people on both the Saturday and Sunday. The two biggest stages being the Main Stage and the NME Stage, along with four tents which included the Slam Tent and the King Tut's Tent.\n\nTickets for the 2005 event sold out in record time, just four days after going on sale, five months in advance of the festival. The event saw around 69,000 people a day watching more than 170 bands over 10 stages. It was named best festival in that year's UK Festival Awards, beating the Glastonbury Festival for the first time.\n\nTickets for the 2006 festival went on sale at 9am on 17 February 2006. The event sold out in under an hour, a record time for the festival. An additional 12,000 day tickets were placed on sale on 3 June 2006, which sold out in ten minutes. Approximately 69,000 tickets were sold for each day. Following the sellout, weekend camping tickets appeared on internet auction sites for as much as £700.\n\nThe 2007 festival took place on the 6, 7 and 8 July 2007 – the first time the festival had been held over three days. The first 35,000 tickets went on sale shortly after the 2006 festival and were sold within 70 minutes. The final batch of tickets, released on 9 March, sold out in less than 20 minutes. The event was overshadowed by traffic chaos on the A91 due to the closure of the main car park following heavy rain.\n\nThe 2008 festival took place on the 11, 12 and 13 July 2008. It was announced that the campsite would open on 10 July 2008 to avoid a repeat of the previous year's traffic problems. The bands headlining the 2008 event were Rage Against the Machine, The Verve and R.E.M. on the Main Stage and The Chemical Brothers, Kaiser Chiefs and The Prodigy on the Radio 1 / NME Stage.\n\nThe 2009 festival took place over three days between the 10 and 12 July, with over 180 acts performing to a crowd of 85,000 people. As with the 2008 festival, the campsite opened on the Thursday evening to prevent traffic queues forming on the Friday. The first batch of \"early bird\" tickets sold out in ten hours on 15 July 2008 and on 27 February 2009, \"NME\" announced that camping tickets for the event had already sold out.\n\nTickets for the 2010 event were made available on 26 February 2010, selling out in 90 minutes. The event was headlined by Muse, Eminem and Kasabian.\n\nThe 2011 festival took place between 7–11 July 2011. Arctic Monkeys, Coldplay, Foo Fighters and Beyoncé were the headliners for the weekend. It is the eighteenth festival to take place. The Strokes played on the Radio 1 NME stage on the Saturday.\nBlink-182 cancelled as they were unable to produce their new album in time for their European tour. On 5 May, Beyoncé was added to the line-up, and played on Saturday the 9th. Other artists such as Deadmau5 and Pendulum played at T in the Park 2011.\n\nThe 2012 festival took place between 6–8 July 2012. As usual presale tickets went on sale shortly after the conclusion of the 2011 event, on 12 July 2011, with another allocation of \"early bird\" tickets going on sale to the general public two days later, on 14 July 2011. The Stone Roses were announced as the first headline act on 8 November, three weeks before the second release tickets went on sale. On 30 November, Vodafone customers who were signed up to the \"Vodafone VIP\" site were granted access to a pre-sale. The next day, T-Lady subscribers and past festival goers were also given access to the pre-sale. The second release tickets, equivalent to half of the venues capacity, went on sale to the general public on 2 December at 9am, hours later allocation was exhausted.\n\nFestival director, Geoff Ellis said that he was \"delighted by the response from fans\" and also noted that he \"can’t wait to see everyone at Balado next year.\"\n\nThe 2013 festival took place between 11–14 July 2013 and was advertised as T20 due to the festival's 20th anniversary. 'Early Bird' tickets went on sale Friday 13 July 2012 at 9am on the Ticketmaster website.\nThe Killers, Rihanna and Mumford and Sons headlined in 2013, alongside other large acts including Emeli Sandé, The Script, Jake Bugg, Alt-J, Of Monsters and Men,Twin Atlantic, Two Door Cinema Club and Azealia Banks. The second batch of tickets went on sale on 7 December at 9am. The final batch went on sale on 22 February at 9 am. On 13 February 2013, German electronic band Kraftwerk were added to the line-up.\n\nThe 2014 festival took place between 10–13 July 2014. The festival was to be the last at the Balado site due to the Forties pipeline system issue involving gas pipes that run underneath the field.\n\nSheffield rockers, Arctic Monkeys were announced first as headline act and closed the festival on Sunday, with Scotland's Biffy Clyro and Calvin Harris headlining Friday and Saturday. Other acts on the bill include Pixies, Ed Sheeran, Paolo Nutini, Paul Weller, The Human League, Pharrell Williams, Ellie Goulding, Tinie Tempah, Franz Ferdinand, Elbow, James and Charlotte OC.\n\nT in the Park was granted a late music license for 2014 which allows the music to continue until 1am instead of 12am like previous years. Music on Friday also started earlier this year, with the arena opening at lunch time instead of the regular 5pm start.\n\nIn 2015 the festival was moved to brand new site, at Strathallan Castle. The first headline act to be announced were The Libertines and shortly after other headliners Kasabian and Noel Gallagher's High Flying Birds, along with other acts including Jessie J, Avicii, Hozier, Sam Smith, The Vaccines, and Twin Atlantic.There has been a lot of negative feedback and media attention regarding the new site, with travel delays being a major issue.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1954484", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1954484", "title": "The Cat's Meow", "text": "The Cat's Meow\n\nThe Cat's Meow is a 2001 period drama film directed by Peter Bogdanovich, and starring Kirsten Dunst, Eddie Izzard, Edward Herrmann, Cary Elwes, Joanna Lumley and Jennifer Tilly. The screenplay by Steven Peros is based on his play of the same title, which was inspired by the mysterious death of film mogul Thomas H. Ince that occurred on William Randolph Hearst's boat with Charles Chaplin on board.\n\nThe film takes place aboard publisher William Randolph Hearst's yacht on a weekend cruise celebrating Ince's 44th birthday on November 16, 1924. Among those in attendance are Hearst's longtime companion and film actress Marion Davies, fellow actor Charlie Chaplin, writer Elinor Glyn, columnist Louella Parsons, and actress Margaret Livingston. The celebration is cut short by an unusual death that would go on to become the subject of legendary Hollywood folklore.\n\nNovember 15, 1924: Among those boarding the luxury yacht \"Oneida\" in San Pedro, California are its owner, publishing magnate William Randolph Hearst, and his mistress, silent film star Marion Davies; motion picture mogul Thomas H. Ince, whose birthday is the reason for the weekend cruise, and his mistress, starlet Margaret Livingston (who would portray \"the Woman From the City\" in F.W. Murnau's \"\" three years later); international film star Charlie Chaplin; English writer Elinor Glyn; and Louella Parsons, a film critic for Hearst's \"New York American\".\n\nSeveral of those participating in the weekend's festivities are at a crossroads in their lives and/or careers. Chaplin, still dealing with the critical and commercial failure of \"A Woman of Paris\" and rumors he has impregnated 16-year-old Lita Grey (who appeared in his film \"The Kid\") is in the midst of preparing \"The Gold Rush\". Davies longs to appear in a slapstick comedy rather than the somber costume dramas to which Hearst has kept her confined. Ince's eponymous film studio is in dire financial straits, so he hopes to convince Hearst to take him on as a partner in Cosmopolitan Pictures. Parsons would like to relocate from the East Coast to more glamorous Hollywood.\n\nHearst suspects Davies and Chaplin have engaged in an affair, a suspicion shared by Ince, who seeks proof he can present to Hearst in order to curry favor with him. In the wastepaper basket in Chaplin's stateroom, Ince discovers a discarded love letter to Davies and pockets it with plans to produce it at an opportune moment. When he finally does, Hearst is enraged. His anger is fueled further when he finds a brooch he had given Davies in Chaplin's cabin. Hearst concludes it was lost there during a romantic liaison, and he rifles Marion's room for further evidence.\n\nArmed with a pistol, Hearst searches the yacht for Chaplin in the middle of the night. Ince, meanwhile, runs into Davies and the two sit and talk with Ince donning a hat Chaplin had worn. Davies explains to Ince her love for Hearst and her regret at an earlier affair with Chaplin. She states \"I never loved him\" just as Hearst arrives behind them. Thinking Davies is referring to him, and mistaking Ince for Chaplin, a jealous Hearst shoots Ince. The assault is witnessed by Parsons, who had heard noises and went to investigate.\n\nHearst arranges to dock in San Diego and have a waiting ambulance take the dying Ince home. He phones the injured man's wife and tells her Ince attempted suicide when Livingston tried to end their affair, assuring her the truth won't reach the media. To the rest of his guests he announces Ince's ulcer flared up and required immediate medical attention. Davies, of course, knows the truth, and confides in Chaplin. Also armed with that knowledge is Parsons, who assures Hearst his secret will be safe in exchange for a lifetime contract with the Hearst Corporation, thus laying the groundwork for her lengthy career as one of Hollywood's most powerful gossip columnists.\n\nAfter seeing Ince off, Hearst confronts Davies and Chaplin. He is berated by Chaplin, who expects Davies to join him. Hearst, however, challenges Chaplin to guarantee Davies that he can promise her a happy life. When Chaplin fails to answer, Hearst informs Chaplin of the vow of silence he and the fellow guests have made to keep the weekend's activities a secret. Chaplin despairs as he realizes the murder has strengthened Davies' love for Hearst.\n\nThe film concludes with the guests leaving Ince's funeral, as Glyn relates what became of them:\n\nTom Ince was largely forgotten after the events of his death. Very few newspapers reported it, no police action was taken, and of all the people on board only one was ever questioned. It is concluded that in Hollywood, \"the place just off the coast of the planet Earth,\" no two accounts of the story are the same.\n\n\nFilm scholar Jonathan Rosenbaum, editor of the 1992 book \"This is Orson Welles\" — a record of interviews Peter Bogdanovich conducted with Orson Welles — began his April 2002 review of \"The Cat's Meow\" with this exchange about \"Citizen Kane\" (1941):\n\nOW: In the original script we had a scene based on a notorious thing Hearst had done, which I still cannot repeat for publication. And I cut it out because I thought it hurt the film and wasn’t in keeping with Kane’s character. If I’d kept it in, I would have had no trouble with Hearst. He wouldn’t have dared admit it was him.<br>PB: Did you shoot the scene?<br>OW: No, I didn’t. I decided against it. If I’d kept it in, I would have bought silence for myself forever.\n\n\"The incident Welles alluded to in this exchange is the subject of \"The Cat’s Meow\", directed by Bogdanovich and adapted by Steven Peros from his own play,\" Rosenbaum wrote. \"Bogdanovich may see Welles as the inspiration for his film, but I have no idea where Peros got his facts.\"\n\nRosenbaum did find a similar story in the 1979 edition of \"The Film Encyclopedia\" by Ephraim Katz, in the entry on Thomas Ince; and in the 1971 essay on \"Citizen Kane\" by Pauline Kael:\n\nHer principal source was John Houseman, script supervisor for cowriter Herman Mankiewicz, and it seems safe to conclude, even without her prodding, that some version of the story must have cropped up in Mankiewicz’s first draft of the script, which Welles subsequently edited and added to. According to Kael, the only trace of the subplot left in the script is a speech made by Susan Alexander, who was loosely based on Davies, to the reporter Thompson about Kane: “Look, if you’re smart, you’ll get in touch with Raymond. He’s the butler. You’ll learn a lot from him. He knows where all the bodies are buried.” Kael writes, “It’s an odd, cryptic speech. In the first draft, Raymond \"literally\" knew where the bodies were buried: Mankiewicz had dished up a nasty version of the scandal sometimes referred to as the Strange Death of Thomas Ince.\"\n\n\"I don’t think we’re likely ever to know for sure what happened on Hearst’s yacht on November 19, 1924,\" Rosenbaum concluded.\n\n\"No director is more steeped in Hearst/Welles/Kane/Hollywood lore than Bogdanovich,\" wrote film critic Roger Ebert, who heard the Orson Welles version of Thomas Ince's death from Bogdanovich. \"It happened that as Bogdanovich told me this story, we were aboard the QE2, crossing to Southampton on the 25th anniversary voyage of the Telluride Film Festival in 1998. When Bogdanovich returned to New York, there was a script waiting for him. It was an adaptation of Steven Peros' play about the very same scandal. Fate was sending him a message.\"\n\nIn a 2008 interview Bogdanovich said, \"I was talking to Orson for my book, \"This is Orson Welles\" in 1969 and he said, “You know about the thing that happened on Hearst’s yacht?” He said Welles had been told the story by screenwriter Charles Lederer, Marion Davies's nephew, and that Bogdanovich subsequently confirmed the account with Lederer. \"And when Orson told me that story it was virtually the same story as what Steven Peros has written. The particulars in terms of the letter or the hat, those where details hypothesized by Steven, based on his research, but the actual plot — of what happened and who was doing what and why — that was all the same.\"\n\nPeter Bogdanovich wanted to shoot \"The Cat's Meow\" in black-and-white to capture the feel of the silent movie era, but studio heads objected. (Black-and-white scenes of Ince's funeral, resembling old newsreel footage, bookend the film.) To compensate, the director ordered costume designer Caroline de Vivaise to dress the cast in only black and white. With only a few weeks to prepare prior to the start of filming, she resorted to shopping in secondhand stores for vintage clothing. Bogdanovich agreed to her request to have some silver and gold on the costumes when many of the pieces she found were trimmed with those colors.\n\nThe vessel used to represent the Oneida was actually the \"Marala\". She was originally named \"Evadne\", the private yacht of Charles Fairey of Fairey Aviation, and had patrolled the approaches to Bermuda, and its Royal Naval Dockyard, during the Second World War as HMS \"Evadne\".\n\nComposer Ian Whitcomb's score was augmented by original recordings that were popular during the period in which the film takes place. These included \"Avalon,\" \"Toot Toot Tootsie,\" and \"California, Here I Come\" by Al Jolson; \"Everybody Loves My Baby\" and \"Wild Cat Blues\" by Clarence Williams; \"Stumbling,\" \"Say It With Music,\" \"Somebody Loves Me,\" and \"Linger Awhile\" by Paul Whiteman; and \"Wabash Blues\" by Fletcher Henderson. In addition, Ian Whitcomb & His Bungalow Boys performed many tunes from the era, among them \"Ain't We Got Fun,\" \"I'm Just Wild About Harry,\" \"St. Louis Blues,\" \"A Pretty Girl Is Like a Melody,\" \"I'm Nobody's Baby,\" \"Rose of Washington Square,\" \"If You Were the Only Girl in the World,\" \"Margie,\" \"How Ya Gonna Keep 'Em Down on the Farm (After They've Seen Paree)?,\" and \"Alice Blue Gown.\"\n\nAfter the film had been completed, music supervisor Joel C. High realised the version of \"Charleston\" heard in the birthday party scene was a jazz-tinged arrangement from the 1950s and had Ian Whitcomb & His Bungalow Boys record an authentic 1920s rendition to replace it. Bogdanovich preferred the livelier, more contemporary sound of the 1950s version but finally was convinced by High to use the more accurate recording.\n\nThe film premiered at the Locarno Film Festival in August 2001. It was shown at the 2001 Flanders International Film Festival in Belgium, the 2001 MIFED Film Market in Italy, the 2002 International Film Festival Rotterdam, and the 2002 Mar del Plata Film Festival in Argentina before going into limited release in the US in April 2002.\n\nThe film grossed $3,209,481 in the United States and $437,513 internationally for a worldwide total of $3,646,994.\n\nOn Rotten Tomatoes the film has a score of 75% based on reviews from 124 critics.\n\n\"New York Times\" film critic A. O. Scott called the film \"a modest, restrained picture, as small and satisfying as one of Woody Allen's better recent efforts. There is little to distinguish it visually from a made-for-cable historical drama. We observe the events from a polite distance, rather than being plunged into the swirl of decadent Jazz Age high life. The suave camera movements never quite dispel the feeling that we are watching a filmed play. But Mr. Bogdanovich … shows his mastery in his work with the actors, who turn dusty Tinseltown lore into a spry and touching entertainment.\"\n\n\"Apart from its theory about the mistaken death of Ince and its cover-up, the movie's most intriguing theory is that Parsons witnessed it, which might explain her lifetime contract with the Hearst papers,\" wrote Roger Ebert of the \"Chicago Sun-Times\". \"The film is darkly atmospheric, with Herrmann quietly suggesting the sadness and obsession beneath Hearst's forced avuncular chortles. Dunst is as good, in her way, as Dorothy Comingore in \"Citizen Kane\" in showing a woman who is more loyal and affectionate than her lover deserves.\"\n\n\"In some ways, Dunst gives the film’s most impressive performance,\" wrote Jonathan Rosenbaum, who called the film a must-see. \"What’s masterful about Bogdanovich’s direction is the cumulative detail, which adds complexity to incidental as well as central characters. He has a graceful way of switching viewpoints from one character to another and an uninsistent yet mainly persuasive sense of period. … This picture might well be considered a more impressive accomplishment than many of his early pictures. But it speaks with a quieter voice, and what it says seems substantially more personal and thoughtful.\"\n\nIn the \"San Francisco Chronicle\", Mick LaSalle stated, \"Bogdanovich takes a tale of old Hollywood and infuses it with velocity and enthusiasm. He avoids his twin demons, freneticism and cuteness, and delivers his best picture in years ... His deft use of a single location, his intelligent handling of his ensemble cast and his graceful camera work mark this as a true return to form.\"\n\nDerek Elley of \"Variety\" described the film as \"playful and sporty … Dunst gives her best performance to date amid a skilled older cast. Believable as both a spoiled ingenue and a lover to two very different men, Dunst endows a potentially lightweight character with considerable depth and sympathy.\"\n\n\"Elegant, funny and unexpectedly touching, this whodunit about a murder aboard the yacht of William Randolph Hearst represents a bracing comeback for Peter Bogdanovich,\" wrote \"Rolling Stone\" film critic Peter Travers. \"Dunst, the teen queen of \"Bring It On\" and \"Crazy/Beautiful\", is showstoppingly good, finding humor, heart and surprising gravity in a character often dismissed as a gold digger.\"\n\nJames Christopher of \"The Times\" wrote, \"The unexpected charm of Bogdanovich's film is that he paints a social scenario worthy of \"Decline and Fall\". His cast are comically hollow and effortlessly insincere … Kirsten Dunst is a marvellous tease as Marion; Eddie Izzard is a manly Chaplin; and Herrmann is hypnotic as the infatuated host who is richer than God.\"\n\nIn the \"Los Angeles Times\", Kevin Thomas stated, \"Peter Bogdanovich, who knows his Hollywood history probably better than any other American director, works from Steven Peros' amusing yet poignant script to tell the popular version of the legend in clever and entertaining fashion, loaded with authentic and convincing details.\"\n\n\"What a tonic to be treated to a movie for that most uncourted, ignored and generally dissed of demographics: the grown-ups,\" wrote Ann Hornaday of \"The Washington Post\". \"Based on an urban legend that has been quietly circulating around Hollywood for almost four decades, \"The Cat's Meow\" would be grounds for libel if the libeled one were still alive … Bogdanovich directs \"The Cat's Meow\" with unfussy clarity, introducing a crowded cast of characters with quick scenes that immediately convey who they are and what they're up to. In the 1970s films \"The Last Picture Show\" and \"Paper Moon\", Bogdanovich coaxed some wonderful performances from his actors, and he clearly hasn't lost that touch: Herrmann inhabits Hearst completely (he even bears an uncanny physical resemblance to the late publisher). Dunst, heretofore relegated to kittenish teen roles, comes as close to capturing Davies' effervescence and spontaneity as anyone has (and no one has). Izzard is also very good as Chaplin.\"\n\n\"Bogdanovich's silent crosscutting between close-ups of the characters helps to shorn the film of its theatrical origins,\" wrote Peter Tonguette in \"The Film Journal\". \"Bogdanovich's sensitivity towards his characters and outright insistence that we see even the most gluttonous and poisonous among them as human beings is rare, and commendable, indeed.\"\n\nKirsten Dunst was named Best Actress at the Mar del Plata Film Festival.\n\nLions Gate Entertainment released \"The Cat's Meow\" on VHS (UPC 031398809531) and DVD (UPC 031398809920) in 2002. A signature series DVD (UPC 031398849520) was released in 2003.\n\n"}
{"id": "2045465", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2045465", "title": "Trafficking of children", "text": "Trafficking of children\n\nTrafficking of children (aka \"Child Labor\" and \"Child Exploitation) is a form of human trafficking and is defined as the \"recruitment, transportation, transfer, harboring, and/or receipt\" of a child for the purpose of \nslavery, forced labor and exploitation. This definition is substantially wider than the same document's definition of \"trafficking in persons\". Children may also be trafficked for the purpose of adoption.\n\nThough statistics regarding the magnitude of child trafficking are difficult to obtain, the International Labour Organization estimates that 1.2 million children are trafficked each year. In 2012 the (UNODC) United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime reports the percentage of child victims had risen in a 3 year span from 20 per cent to 27 per cent. Of every three child victims, two are girls and one is a boy. The gender and age profile of victims detected is 17% girls and 10% boys. In 2014, research conducted by the anti-human trafficking organization Thorn reported that Internet sites like Craigslist are often used as tools for conducting business within the industry and that 70 percent of child sex trafficking survivors surveyed were at some point sold online. The trafficking of children has been internationally recognized as a serious crime that exists in every region of the world and which often has human rights implications. Yet, it is only within the past decade that the prevalence and ramifications of this practice have risen to international prominence, due to a dramatic increase in research and public action. A variety of potential solutions have accordingly been suggested and implemented, which can be categorized as four types of action: broad protection, prevention, law enforcement, and victim assistance. \n\nThe main international documents dealing with the trafficking of children are the 1989 U.N. Convention on the Rights of the Child, the 1999 I.L.O. Worst Forms of Child Labour Convention and the 2000 U.N. Protocol to Prevent, Suppress and Punish Trafficking in Persons, especially Women and Children.\n\nThe first major international instrument dealing with the trafficking of children is part of the 2000 United Nations Palermo protocols, titled the Protocol to Prevent, Suppress and Punish Trafficking in Persons, especially Women and Children. Article 3(a) of this document defines child trafficking as the \"recruitment, transportation, transfer, harboring and/or receipt\" of a child for the purpose of exploitation. The definition for child trafficking given here applies only to cases of trafficking that are transnational and/or involve organized criminal groups; in spite of this, child trafficking is now typically recognized well outside these parameters. The International Labour Organization expands upon this definition by asserting that movement and exploitation are key aspects of child trafficking. The definition of \"child\" used here is that listed in the 1989 U.N. Convention on the Rights of the Child which states, \"a child means every human being below the age of 18 years, unless, under the law applicable to the child, majority is attained earlier.\" The distinction outlined in this definition is important, because some countries have chosen to set the \"age of majority\" lower than 18, thus influencing exactly what legally constitutes child trafficking.\n\nMany international, regional, and national instruments deal with the trafficking of children. These instruments are used to define what legally constitutes trafficking of children, such that appropriate legal action can be taken against those who engage in and promote this practice. These legal instruments are called by a variety of terms, including conventions, protocols, memorandums, joint actions, recommendations, and declarations. The most significant instruments are listed below:\n\nThese legal instruments were developed by the United Nations in an effort to protect international human rights and, more specifically, children's rights.\n\nThe trafficking of children often involves both labor and migration. As such, these international frameworks clarify instances in which these practices are illegal.\n\n\nA variety of regional instruments have also been developed to guide countries in decisions regarding child trafficking. Below are some of the major instruments, though many others exist:\n\nNational laws pertaining to child trafficking continue to develop worldwide, based on the international principles that have been established. Anti-trafficking legislation has been lauded as critical by the United Nations Global Initiative to Fight Human Trafficking, because it ensures that traffickers and trafficking victims are treated accordingly: for example, \"if migration laws are used to pursue traffickers, it is often the case that the victims too are prosecuted as illegal migrants, whereas if there is a specific category of 'trafficker' and 'trafficked person,' then it is more likely that the victim will be treated as such.\" The existence of national laws regarding child trafficking also enables trafficking victims and/or their families to take appropriate civil action.\n\nThe intended or actual after-sale use of the child is not always known.\n\nThe objective of child trafficking is often forced child labour. Child labour refers specifically to children under a stipulated minimum age, usually 14 at the lowest, being required to work. UNICEF estimates that, in 2011, 150 million children aged 5–14 in developing countries were involved in child labour. Within this number, the International Labour Organization reports that 60% of child workers work in agriculture. The ILO also estimates that 115 million children are engaged in hazardous work, such as the sex or drug trade. Overall, child labor can take many forms, including domestic servitude, work in agriculture, service, and manufacturing industries. Also, according to several researchers, most children are forced into cheap and controllable labor, and work in homes, farms, factories, restaurants, and much more (Beyrer 16; Gozdziak and MacDonnell 171; Vinkovic 88). Trafficked children may be sexually exploited, used in the armed forces and drug trades, and in child begging. In terms of global trends, the ILO estimates that in 2004–2008, there was a 3% reduction in the incidence of child labor; this stands in contrast to a previous ILO report which found that in 2000–2004, there was a 10% reduction in child labor. The ILO contends that, globally, child labour is slowly declining, except in sub-Saharan Africa, where the number of child workers has remained relatively constant: 1 in 4 children aged 5–17 work in this region. Another major global trend concerns the number of child laborers in the 15-17 age group: in the past five years, a 20% increase in the number of these child workers has been reported. A surprised example has occurred in the United States as McCabe (2008) indicates that in the 1990s, huge companies such as Gap and Nike were using industries “sweatshops” that use trafficked children to make their desired products (p. 81).\n\nThe Optional Protocol on the Sale of Children, Child Prostitution and Child Pornography is a protocol of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, formally adopted by the United Nations in 2000. Essentially, this protocol formally requires states to prohibit the sale of children, child prostitution, and child pornography. According to the International Labour Organization, sexual exploitation of children includes all of the following practices and activities: \nThough measuring the extent of this practice is difficult due to its criminal and covert nature, the International Labour Organization estimates that there are as many as 1.8 million children sexually trafficked worldwide, while UNICEF's 2006 State of the World's Children Report reports this number to be 2 million. The International Labour Organization has found that girls involved in other forms of child labour - such as domestic service or street vending - are at the highest risk of being pulled into commercial child sex trafficking. Likewise, Kendall and Funk justifies how “young girls age 12 and under are malleable and more easily trained into their prospective roles as prostitutes, and because virginity is highly prized by certain consumers willing to pay a premium” (31).A variety of sources, including the I.L.O, and scholars Erin Kunze and D.M. Hughes, also contend that the increased use and availability of the Internet has served as a major resource for traffickers, ultimately increasing the incidence of child sex trafficking. In fact, in 2009, Illinois Sheriff Thomas J. Dart sued the owners of Craigslist, a popular online classifieds website, for its \"allowance\" and \"facilitation\" of prostitution, particularly in children. In response to public and legal pressure, Craigslist has since blocked all access to its \"Adult Services\" section.\n\nThe Optional Protocol on the Involvement of Children in Armed Conflict is a protocol of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, formally adopted by the United Nations in 2000. Essentially, the protocol states that while volunteers below the age of 18 can voluntarily join the armed forces, they cannot be conscripted. As the Protocol reads, \"State parties shall take all feasible measures to ensure that member of their armed forces who have not attained the age of 18 years do not take a direct part in hostilities.\" Despite this, the International Labour Organization estimates that \"tens of thousands\" of girls and boys are currently forcibly enlisted in the armed forces in at least 17 countries around the world. Children conscripted into the armed forces can then be used in three distinct ways: \nRecent research conducted by the Coalition to Stop the Use of Child Soldiers has also noted that girl soldiers must be uniquely recognized, in that they are especially vulnerable to acts of sexual violence. The incidence of child soldiers was the focus of the Kony 2012 movement, that aimed to arrest Joseph Kony, a Ugandan war criminal who is responsible for the trafficking of thousands of child soldiers and sex slaves.\n\nChildren are also used in drug trades in all regions of the world. Specifically, children are often trafficked into exploitation as either drug couriers or dealers, and then 'paid' in drugs, such that they become addicted and further entrapped. Due to the illicit nature of drug trafficking, children who are apprehended are often treated as criminals, when in reality they are often the ones in need of legal assistance. While comprehensive worldwide statistics regarding the prevalence of this practice are unknown, several useful regional studies have been conducted. For example, the I.L.O has recently investigated the use of Afghan children in the heroin trade and child involvement in the drug trades of Brazil. Scholar Luke Dowdney specifically studied children in the drug trade in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil; he found that children involved in the drug trades are at significantly higher risk of engaging in violence, particularly murder.\n\nForced child begging is a type of begging in which boys and girls under the age of eighteen are forced to beg through psychological and physical coercion. Begging is defined by the Buffalo Human Rights Law Review as \"the activity of asking for money as charity on the street\". There is evidence to suggest that forced begging is one industry that children are trafficked into, with a recent UNICEF study reporting that 13% of trafficking victims in South Eastern Europe have been trafficked for the purpose of forced begging. The United Nations protocol affirms that \"the recruitment, transportation, transfer, harboring or receipt of a child for the purpose of exploitation shall be considered 'trafficking in persons' even if this does not involve any of the means set forth in subparagraph (a) of this article.\" With this definition the transportation of a child to an urban center for the purposes of begging constitutes trafficking regardless of whether this process was enforced by a third party or family member. The severity of this form of trafficking is starting to gain global recognition, with the International Organization for Migration (IOM), the European Union, the International Labour Organization (ILO), and the United Nations, among others, beginning to emphasize its pertinence. The European Union's Brussels Declaration on Preventing and Combating Trafficking includes child begging as one form of trafficking, stating \"trafficking in human beings is an abhorrent and worrying phenomenon involving coercive sexual exploitation, labor exploitation in conditions akin to slavery, exploitation in begging and juvenile delinquency as well as domestic servitude.\" This issue is especially difficult to regulate given that forced begging is often imposed by family members, with parental power leveraged over a child to ensure that begging is carried out.\n\nBy definition child begging occurs in persons younger than eighteen, though forced begging has been found by UNICEF to exist among children as young as the age of two. Incidences of this practice have been recorded by the World Bank in South and Central Asia, Europe, Latin America, the Caribbean, the Middle East, and West Africa.\n\nMost research, such as studies done by UNICEF, suggests that boys are much more likely than girls to be trafficked for the purposes of begging; experts presume this is because there is a greater female presence in trafficking for the purposes of sexual exploitation. In Albania, where forced begging is a common practice, seventy percent of victims are male.\n\nWhile concrete figures are difficult to determine, the International Labour Organization (ILO) recently reported that there are at least 600,000 children involved in forced begging. The problem may be much more extensive, however, with China's Ministry of Civil Affairs reporting that as many as 1.5 million children are forced into begging. Additionally, a recent study done in Senegal by Human Rights Watch projected that a minimum of 50,000 children within the country and neighboring nations have been trafficked for the purposes of begging. Begging is often the primary source of income for street children in a number of countries, with a current study conducted by UNICEF finding that 45.7% of children who work on the streets of Zimbabwe engaged in begging, though there is no way of knowing whether it was through forced means.\n\nGang networks involving forced begging have been found to occur in populations of 500 or greater.\n\nChildren may be trafficked for the purposes of adoption, particularly international adoption. Children are sourced from orphanages or kidnapped, or parents may be tricked, cajoled or coerced into relinquishing custody. Disreputable international adoption agencies then arrange international adoptions, charging high fees to prospective adoptive parents. The Hague Convention on the Protection of Children and Cooperation in regard to Intercountry Adoption is an international agreement designed to protect children from such exploitation and to assist in preventing such illegal intercountry adoptions.\n\nForced begging is a profitable practice in which exploiters are motivated by economic incentives. The business structures of major rings of children trafficked for the purpose of begging have been examined as comparable to a medium-size business enterprise. In the most severe cases networks of children forced to beg may generate $30–40,000 USD for the profiteer. Though family networks are not nearly as extensive, a study conducted in Albania showed that a family with multiple children begging can earn up to fifteen euros a day, an amount greater than the average national teacher salary. Anti-Slavery International asserts that because this income is relatively high many families believe it is the best option available given the lack of existing capabilities. Capability deprivation, meaning the routine absence of adequate resources that serve in facilitating opportunities, may account for cross-generational begging practices within families. UNICEF studies have found that begging is especially prevalent among families in which parents are incapacitated in some way, leading children to be the sole providers.\n\nAccording to the World Bank forced begging is most commonly found in the Middle East and countries of West Africa, where laws prohibiting begging are scarce and heavy regulation of trafficking absent. In Zimbabwe, where child begging is especially prominent, the United Nations has indicated many contradictions between the Labour Act of Zimbabwe and the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child. Many nations, such as Indonesia, have laws against begging on the books, but the repercussions for such entail temporary detainment and eventual release back onto the streets, which does little to combat the issue.\n\nThere are several cultural factors that support begging. In Europe begging is found in a number of minority cultures, especially popular within Roma and nomadic communities. In Turkey familial networks of beggars have been documented across three generations, making it deeply ingrained within their survival schemas. It is important to note that while these may be culturally rooted practices, juvenile begging by way of familial pressure still falls under the realm of forced begging. The transport of children, even one's own, for the purposes of exploitation through begging is a form of trafficking outlined by the United Nations.\n\nAnother cultural practice is the resolution of familial debts through the kidnapping and exploitation of one of their children.\n\nUNICEF has found that children who are forced to beg by third parties are often removed from their families, surrender the majority of their income to their exploiter, endure unsafe work and living conditions, and are at times maimed to increase profits. The process of maiming, popularized by the film \"Slumdog Millionaire\", is common given that according to the Buffalo Human Rights Law Review children with apparent special needs often make upwards of three times as much as other children who beg. In addition to inflictions such as blindness and loss of limbs, other physical abuses for the purposes of heightening profits include pouring chili pepper on a child's tongue to give the appearance of impeded speech, the use of opium to elicit cries, and administering forced injections of drugs that will increase a child's energy and alertness. Testimonies against trafficking ring gang leaders have discussed the detainment of individuals in small cells devoid of food, water, and light to make victims weak and feeble, and thus more likely to elicit donations.\n\nThe conditions in which begging takes place commonly expose children to further physical and verbal abuse, including sexual victimization and police brutality. Research completed by Human Rights Watch revealed that when begging hours are completed for the day children often do not have proper shelter, adequate food, or access to healthcare where they reside. Furthermore, many of the gangs which run networks of forced begging have heavy drug involvement, thus the children under their control are often turned into drug addicts in order for them to become further reliant on their exploiters.\n\nStudies have shown that children forced into begging primarily receive little to no education, with upwards of sixteen hours a day dedicated to time on the streets. With education being a leading method in escaping poverty child beggars have been shown to engage in a cyclical process of continuing this practice cross-generationally. Interviews conducted by UNICEF show that children who beg have little hope for the future and do not believe their circumstances will improve. Children who work on the streets typically have little or no knowledge of their rights, leaving them especially susceptible to exploitation both as juveniles and later as adults. Children who beg have also been found by UNICEF to have much higher instances of HIV-infection due to lack of awareness and supervision on the streets.\n\nA victim-centered human rights approach to combating trafficking has been internationally renowned as the best possible strategy when addressing this issue, with recourse focusing on punishing the exploiter and rehabilitating the child. Some countries who emphasize this method include the United States, with the U.S. Trafficking Victims Protection Act of 2000 affirming \"victims of severe forms of trafficking should not be inappropriately incarcerated, fined, or otherwise penalized solely for unlawful acts committed as a direct result of being trafficked.\"\n\nOther supported methods, such as those outlined by the Buffalo Human Rights Center, include relying on three Ps: protection, prosecution, and prevention. Protection starts with enforcing strict measures on the matters of both trafficking and begging. For many nations the first step is the criminalization of begging and trafficking. Prosecution should be instituted in the form of greater legal ramifications for traffickers, with punishment focused on the exploiter rather than the exploited. This becomes difficult with respect to victims of familial trafficking, considering this would require changes in care placement and strict monitoring of each displaced child's welfare. Many organizations affirm that prevention begins with discouraging donations and improving services so that children, and families as a whole, have greater capabilities. Though well-intentioned, by giving child beggars money, individuals only make this practice more profitable, and soon these funds find their way into the hands of the child's abuser.\n\nIn Senegal, where the abuses against talibes are extensive, there have been several initiatives with the help of the World Bank to put an end this exploitation. First, there is intervention on a community level with education on the validity of some of these Quranic institutions provided to rural villages that typically send their children there. This is supplemented by improved regulation of schools within the nation to ensure that they remain places of education, followed by a greater enforcement of preexisting laws banning trafficking and exploitative begging. Finally, rehabilitation services have been provided with the help of CSOs to recovered children to provide them with the capabilities they have been denied.\n\nIn Zimbabwe policy has adapted to ensure the safety of all persons under the age of sixteen with the Children's Protection and Adoption Act, however, the government admits that a lack of resources and capital play a critical role in inadequate enforcement.\n\nIn Bangladesh, where there are an estimated 700,000 beggars, a law passed in 2009 banning the practice, though officials report some trouble with enforcement.\n\nIn China, the Ministry of Public Security has established a department that solely focuses on child trafficking. Recently the department has instituted a hotline where the public dials 110 to report suspected incidences of forced begging, which law enforcement officials are expected to investigate further. The police are trained to take the children into custody if a blood relationship with their guardian cannot be established, and educate parents on the illegality and dangers of begging if they are those responsible for the child's action. This policy instituted in April 2009 has since led to the recovery of 9,300 children.\n\nMany NGOs have initiated movements focusing on informing the public on the dangers of donations. As recently reported by UNICEF \"certain behaviors, such as giving money to child beggars can also indirectly motivate traffickers and controller to demand children.\" The Mirror Foundation's Stop Child Begging Project of Thailand is one such organization that emphasizes eliminating the demand. Their initiatives are focused on educating passersby on the forced begging of trafficked Cambodians within their country to decrease the likelihood of donations.\n\nIn China, where the kidnapping and forced begging of children has been routinely documented, a multi-media movement has begun. Here, blogs are utilized to publicize over 3,000 photos of children whose families believe have been abducted for the purpose of begging, with hundreds of thousands of followers who remain on the look out for these children in major urban centers. This campaign has enabled at least six children to be recovered and reunited with their families.\n\nIn instances where begging is religiously sanctioned it has been suggested by USAid that religious leaders should outwardly condemn this practice. For talibes religious leaders have been asked to take a stance against begging using passages cited from the Quran, such as \"Except paradise, you should not beg anything for the sake of Allah\" (8:23), which would help strip the practice of its religious foundation. In addition, during the time of president Clinton - a former president of the United States-, he took the responsibility of providing protection against child abuse through Internet Service providers (ISP) that can help the law enforcement tracking any suspicious activities including child pornography (McCabe, 2008, p. 247).\n\nIn China, in response to adult starvation, some children were exchanged, killed, and eaten. According to Robyn Meredith, \"peasants [in the People's Republic of China (possibly in \"ca.\" B.C.770)] turned into skeletons. The nation's farmers, including the residents of Xiaogang, ... [among some] starving families[,] resorted to a practice called \"易子而食\" [meaning \"exchanging children to eat\"]:... they traded a child for a neighbor's child, then killed and ate the skinny youngster, with the sickening knowledge that their neighbors were devouring their own.\"\n\nIn ancient Rome, according to Keith Bradley, Augustine wrote that \"there were indigent parents selling their children because they needed the cash.\"\n\nIn contemporary Nepal, parents of poor families sell their children to orphanages (or sometimes simply hand them over without any payment). The orphanage then misrepresent them as \"orphans\", ensuring an income for the orphanages.\n\nIn general, child trafficking takes place in three stages: recruitment, movement, and exploitation. Recruitment occurs when a child is approached by a recruiter, or in some cases, directly approaches a recruiter themselves. Recruitment is initiated in many different ways: adolescents may be under pressure to contribute to their families, children may be kidnapped or abducted into trafficking, or families may be trafficked together. Then, movement will occur - locally, regionally, and/or internationally - through a variety of transportation types, including by car, train, boat, or foot. Ultimately, the final goal of child trafficking is exploitation, whereby traffickers use the services of children to garner illegal profit. Exploitation can take place in a variety of forms, including forced labor, sexual exploitation, and child begging, among other practices.\n\nChild trafficking is often conceptualized using the economic model of supply and demand. Specifically, those who are trafficked constitute the \"supply\", while the traffickers, and all those who profit from the exploitation, provide the \"demand\". Two types of demand are defined: consumer demand and derived demand. Consumer demand is generated by people who actively or passively buy the products or services of trafficked labor. An example of this would be a tourist purchasing a T-shirt that has been made by a trafficked child. Derived demand, on the other hand, is generated by people who directly profit from the practice of trafficking, such as pimps or corrupt factory owners. Scholar Kevin Bales has extensively studied the application of this economic framework to instances of human trafficking; he contends that it is central to an accurate understanding of how trafficking is initiated and sustained. Bales, along with scholars Elizabeth M. Wheaton, Edward J. Schauer, and Thomas V. Galli, have asserted that national governments should more actively implement policies that reduce both types of demand, thus working towards the elimination of trafficking.\n\nVarious international organizations, including the International Labour Organization and the United Nations Global Initiative to Fight Human Trafficking have linked child trafficking to poverty: Living in poverty has been found to increase children's vulnerability to trafficking. However, poverty is only one of many social \"risk factors\" that can lead to trafficking. As UNICEF and the World Bank note, \"Often children experience several risk factors at the same time, and one of them may act as a trigger that sets the trafficking event in motion. This is sometimes called 'poverty plus,' a situation in which poverty does not by itself lead to a person being trafficked, but where a 'plus' factor such as illness combines with poverty to increase vulnerability.\" UNICEF, UN.GIFT and several scholars, including Una Murray and Mike Dottridge, also contend that an accurate understanding of child trafficking must incorporate an analysis of gender inequality. Specifically, in many countries, girls are at a higher risk of being trafficked, particularly into sexual exploitation. In addition, these international agencies and scholars contend that giving women and men an equal voice in anti-trafficking policy is critical to reducing the incidence of child trafficking.\n\nStudies throughout Europe have identified risks that make children vulnerable to exploitation that are also causes and contributing factors of child trafficking. These include social and economic marginalisation, dysfunctional family backgrounds, experiences of neglect, abuse or violence within the family or in institutions, exploitative relationships, gender-based violence and discrimination, experiences of living or working on the streets, precarious and irregular migration situations, aspirations to work and to earn money and limited opportunities to enter or remain in school, vocational training or regular employment. As the efforts of national governments to improve social safety nets can lessen many of these risks, child trafficking is considered not only a result of criminal activities but also as indicating weaknesses in the national government's ability to effectively safeguard children’s rights to a safe and healthy development.\n\nThe complex definition of child trafficking and the differences in national laws and interpretations makes the identification of child victims of trafficking challenging. For example, the European debate on child trafficking lacks consensus on how child trafficking is to be distinguished from other contexts of exploitation, from social dumping of migrants, the sale of children and the smuggling of migrants.\n\nOnce a potential victim has come into contact with state authorities, identifying the child as a victim of trafficking takes time. The process often benefits from a thorough understanding of the child’s story. For a child who is in trouble with the law, hearing the child's full story helps caseworkers and officers determine if the child is actually a victim of a crime herself, such as exploitation, abuse, or trafficking. For a child in an administrative process, such as an asylum procedure, hearing the child's full story helps caseworkers to detect cases of trafficking. Children may be hesitant to share their complete stories with authorities and appointed child welfare professionals. Some service providers have found that establishing trust and a stable relationship with the child encourages increased disclosure of experiences of exploitation and trafficking that might otherwise not be detected. The trust building process can include granting assistance and support services to ensure safety, well-being and development.\n\nIdentified victims of child trafficking are entitled to special safeguards that all child victims of crimes are entitled to under international law. These safeguards include the right to guardianship, legal assistance and representation, safety and protection, support for physical and psychological recovery and social reintegration, regularisation of immigration status, the right to compensation, and the right to act as a party, or plaintiff, in criminal proceedings. An important safeguard for trafficked children who have been exploited in illegal or criminal activities is the ‘non-punishment clause’. It means that child victims of criminal offences, including human trafficking, are to be protected from sanctions or prosecution for acts that they committed in relation to their situation as victims.\n\nArticles 19 and 32-36 of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child prohibits the exploitation of children in any form and in any context. Any child who is exposed to violence, exploitation or abuse can be considered a victim of crime and enjoys the correlated rights and entitlements, including access to assistance, protection and support, services for recovery and rehabilitation, access to justice, with due procedural safeguards in any related legal or administrative proceedings. Children at risk of exploitation have to be identified and recognised as being at risk. This implies that they have a right to assistance and support in order to prevent their exploitation or any other harm resulting from the risks. Considering the difficulties of identifying children who have been trafficked and the broad protection against all forms and contexts of exploitation afforded under the Convention, a child rights-based approach prioritises the identification of child victims of exploitation or other crime and children at risk. Whether or not exploitation takes place in a context of trafficking is of subordinate relevance for the child rights and protection context. It may interest primarily the law enforcement investigations and the prosecution.\n\nIt is difficult to obtain reliable estimates concerning the number of children trafficked each year, primarily due to the covert and criminal nature of this practice. It often takes years to gather and compile estimates regarding child trafficking and, as a result, data can seem both inadequate and outdated. This process of gathering data is only complicated by the fact that very few countries publish national estimates of child trafficking. As a result, the available statistics are widely thought to underestimate the actual scope of the problem.\n\nTrafficking of children has been documented in every region of the world. A widely used figure regarding the prevalence of this practice is provided by the International Labour Organization, which estimates that 1.2 million children are trafficked each year; this estimate includes cross-border and internal trafficking.\n\nRegionally, the International Labour Organization has provided the following estimates for trafficking of children by region per year:\n\nAs the numbers above indicate, child trafficking occurs the most frequently in Latin America and the Caribbean. Child trafficking is also the most prevalent in developing countries, though it does occur in developed and industrialized economies as well. Notably, the United States Department of State publishes an annual \"Trafficking in Persons\" report which provides ample data regarding the prevalence of human and child trafficking in the majority of countries. The University of Pennsylvania School of Social Work released a study that estimated as many as 300,000 American youth may be at risk of commercial sexual exploitation at any time.\n\nAccording to anthropologist Samuel Pyeatt Menefee, in the late 17th and 18th centuries, in Britain, parents in poverty \"sold their children (actually, their children's services, but to all intents and purposes their persons as well)\". Sale motivations were more economic than for wife sales and prices, drawing from limited data, \"appear to have been fairly high\". Many of the boys sold were climbing boys for chimney sweeps until they were no longer small enough. Prostitution was another reason for selling a child, usually a girl.One sale was of a niece; another was the sale by a man of the daughter of a woman domestic partner who also ran his business. Some children were stolen and then sold.\n\nAccording to UN.GIFT, child trafficking has the most significant impact on trafficked children and their families. First, trafficking can result in the death or permanent injury of the trafficked child. This can stem from a dangerous \"movement\" stage of trafficking or from specific aspects of the \"exploitation\" stage, such as hazardous working conditions. Moreover, trafficked children are often denied access to healthcare, effectively increasing their chances of serious injury and death. Trafficked children are also often subject to domestic violence; they may be beaten or starved in order to ensure obedience. In addition, these children frequently encounter substance abuse; they may be given drugs as \"payment\" or to ensure that they become addicted and thus dependent on their trafficker(s). As opposed to many other forms of crime, the trauma experienced by children who are trafficked is often prolonged and repeated, leading to severe psychological impacts. UN.GIFT reports that trafficked children often suffer from depression, anxiety, and post-traumatic stress disorder, among other conditions.\n\nEffects on families are also severe. Some families believe that sending or allowing their children to relocate in order to find work will bring in additional income, while in reality many families will never see their trafficked children again. In addition, UN.GIFT has found that certain forms of trafficking, particularly sexual exploitation in girls, bring \"shame\" to families. Thus, in certain cases, children who are able to escape trafficking may return to their families only to find that they are rejected and ostracized.\n\nChild trafficking has also been shown to have a major effect on communities. If multiple children in a community are trafficked, it can result in the entire community being corrupted, and thus devastated, by trafficking. Social development efforts are hindered, as trafficked children's educations are cut short. As a result of this lack of education, children who escape trafficking may be less able to secure employment later in life. In addition, trafficked girls face special obstacles, in that their prospects for marriage might be diminished if the community becomes aware that they have been trafficked, particularly into sexual exploitation.\n\nOn a national level, economic development is severely hindered by the lack of education of trafficked children; this results in a major loss of potentially productive future workers. Children who are able to successfully return to their families often pose a significant financial burden, due to their lack of education, and the illnesses and injuries they may have incurred during trafficking work. There are major costs associated with the rehabilitation of these trafficked children, so that they are able to successfully participate in their communities. Furthermore, the persistence of child trafficking indicates the presence of sustained criminal activity and criminal networks, which, in most cases, are also associated with drugs and violence. As a result, UN.GIFT has cited child trafficking as a significant indicator of national and global security threats.\n\nSolutions to child trafficking, or \"anti-trafficking actions\", can be roughly classified into four categories:\n\nBroad protection actions are geared towards children who could potentially be trafficked, and include raising awareness about child trafficking, particularly in vulnerable communities. This type of outreach also includes policies geared towards improving the economic statuses of vulnerable families, so that reasonable alternatives are available to them, other than sending their children to work. Examples of this include increasing employment opportunities for adults and conditional cash transfer programs. Another major broad protection program that has been readily endorsed by UN.GIFT, the I.L.O, and UNICEF involves facilitating gender equality, specifically by enhancing both boys' and girls' access to affordable, quality education. Another way to raise awareness for child trafficking is by communities from all over the world dedicating a week to this situation. Observing the 2012 Human Trafficking Awareness Day in the US, and wider world. Community groups along with police enforcements are collaborating to organize events as well as in depth information sessions and support groups for the victims. The events held by communities could include films, guest speakers, booths, and many more things that can help people understand the seriousness of this issue. The ICE (Human Trafficking) has a help line for victims as well as conducts awareness in the U.S.A communities through the ICE In Plain Sight Campaign.\n\nPreventative actions are more focused on addressing the actual practice of child trafficking, specifically by implementing legal frameworks that are aimed to both deter and prosecute traffickers. This involves the adoption and implementation of the International Labour Organization's international labour standards, as well as the development of safe and legal migration practices.\n\nLaw enforcement refers to the actual prosecution of traffickers; UNICEF maintains that successful prosecution of child traffickers is the surest way to send a message that child trafficking will not be tolerated. Traffickers can be \"caught\" at any one of the three steps of trafficking: recruitment, movement, and/or exploitation; anti-trafficking laws as well as child labour laws must then be appropriately enforced and having them properly implemented. The development of grassroots surveillance systems has also been suggested by UNICEF which would enable communities to immediately report signs of child trafficking to legal authorities.Protection begins first with victim identification; child trafficking laws must specifically and appropriately define what constitutes a \"trafficking victim\". Legal processes must then be in place for removing children from trafficking situations, and returning them either to their families or other appropriate settings. Victims should also be provided with individualized and supportive physical and psychological rehabilitation in order to establish him or her self. This recuperation can take quite a length of time but, with the individual having the correct support, they can work towards a functional life. Finally, steps should be taken to avoid \"double victimization\" - in other words, to ensure that formerly trafficked children are treated as victims, and not as criminals. An example of \"double victimization\" would be a child who was illegally trafficked into sexual exploitation in the United States, and then, once free from trafficking, is prosecuted for being an illegal migrant. The End Trafficking Project is the initiative to raise awareness about child trafficking and help people take action to protect children. The UNICEF has come up with ways to help children from child exploitation and the risk factors that need to be addressed. These include:\n\n\nMany organizations have proposed potential solutions to child trafficking. These organizations continue to conduct research concerning this practice and policies that can be implemented to work towards its eradication. The most internationally recognized of these organizations include: \n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17701730", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17701730", "title": "Violence Initiative", "text": "Violence Initiative\n\nThe Violence Initiative was a proposal for research into reducing violence in American inner cities, first announced on February 11, 1992 at a meeting of the National Mental Health Advisory Council by psychiatrist Frederick K. Goodwin, then director of the Alcohol, Drug Abuse, and Mental Health Administration. It was initially proposed as a large-scale program of research into inner-city violence, with the intent of identifying children and youth believed to be biologically or genetically pre-disposed to violence. Goodwin further suggested that future research possibilities might include interventions and targeted treatments in order to divert these youth from possible future violence.\n\nThe proposal drew public controversy after portions of Goodwin's speech which compared inner-city youth to primates in the jungle were leaked publicly. The remarks were initially publicized by Peter Breggin, an outspoken opponent of psychiatric medication and biological explanations of crime. Goodwin first apologized for the primate remarks in an interview on February 21, calling them \"insensitive and careless.\" He resigned from his position on February 27, 1992.\n\nFurther controversy arose when Breggin drew a connection between the Violence Initiative and Goodwin's earlier research into the use of psychiatric drugs as a means of controlling violent behavior, ultimately suggesting that the Violence Initiative would result in widespread use of psychiatric drugs to control the behavior of inner-city minority youth. Critics denounced the proposal as racist and called for it to be cancelled. Supporters of the proposal countered that the proposal had been a legitimate research topic, and had become a victim of \"political correctness.\"\n\nGoodwin's controversial remarks drew a direct comparison between inner-city youth and male monkeys in the wild:\n\nThese remarks were described as \"rambling\" by the \"Washington Post\" during the initial controversy. In a 1995 article, the \"New Yorker\" characterized his logic as \"obscure\" and \"not entirely clear\"; the same article reported Goodwin stating that he had made the remarks \"impromptu - and after a wholly sleepless night\".\n\nThe comparison of inner-city youth to primates, accompanied by the use of the word \"jungle\", was widely viewed as racist. Writer Tom Wolfe, though sympathetic to Goodwin's argument, stated in his 1996 essay \"Sorry, But Your Soul Just Died\", that this \"may have been the stupidest single word uttered by an American public official in the year 1992\".\n"}
{"id": "12039635", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12039635", "title": "Walter Haut", "text": "Walter Haut\n\n1st Lt. Walter Haut (June 3, 1922 – December 15, 2005) was the public information officer (PIO) at the 509th Bomb Group based in Roswell, New Mexico during 1947. Early on July 8, 1947 he was ordered by the base commander, Colonel William Blanchard, to draft a press release to the public, announcing that the United States Army Air Forces had recovered a crashed \"flying disc\" from a nearby ranch. The press release garnered widespread national and even international media attention. The U.S. Army Air Force retracted the claim later the same day, saying instead that a weather balloon had been recovered. Haut also received some criticism and ridicule in the nation's press for putting out the original press release. The series of events eventually became known as the Roswell UFO Incident.\n\nWhen interviewed about the incident decades later, he claimed only a minor role, but he expressed his belief that there was \"no chance\" senior officers who handled the recovered material, including base commander Blanchard, mistook a weather balloon for a flying saucer.\n\nHe later claimed greater involvement, including seeing alien corpses and a craft at a base hangar and handling the strange crash debris.\n\nWalter Haut was born in Chicago, Illinois on June 3, 1922. During World War II, he was a bombardier flying 35 missions against Japan. At Operation Crossroads, the A-bomb tests at the Bikini atoll in the summer of 1946, he dropped instrument packages to record data from the bomb blasts. In 1947, he became the public information officer for the 509th Atomic Bomb Group at Roswell Army Air Field in New Mexico. The base commander, Colonel William H. Blanchard, was a close personal friend.\n\nIn 1991, Haut and two other men founded the International UFO Museum where he presided as president until 1996. Haut died on December 15, 2005 at the age of eighty-three.\n\nIn the first book on the subject, \"The Roswell Incident\", Haut was said to be \"not a witness.\"(p. 72) He told interviewers in 1979 that base commander Colonel William Blanchard asked him to write and distribute the press release but when Haut asked to see the object in question was told \"his request was impossible.\" (p. 73)\n\nIn \"UFO Crash at Roswell\", Haut appears as a witness, though not to any of actual debris. During a March 1989 interview he said he knew \"nothing\" about what was recovered. (p. 139) He described being asked by Blanchard to write the press release. \"I didn't hear about it until, I guess, Jess [Jesse Marcel, head intelligence officer, who initially investigated and recovered some of the debris] was on his way to the flightline.\" (ibid) He did, however, describe what Marcel told him: \"It was something he had never seen and didn't believe it was of this planet. I trusted him on his knowledge.\" (p. 142) He further stated: \"I think there was a giant cover-up on this thing.\" (p. 143)\n\nAn affidavit signed May 14, 1993, he repeated the above claimed sequence of events and added \"I believe Col. Blanchard saw the material, because he sounded positive about what the material was. There is no chance he would have mistaken it for a weather balloon. Neither is there any chance that Major Marcel would have been mistaken.\n\nBy this time, Haut, along with Max Littell and Glenn Dennis had opened the International UFO Museum and Research Center.\n\nThen, in a recorded interview from 2000 with Wendy Connors and Dennis Balthauser, Haut claimed to have personally viewed an extraterrestrial or alien craft and a body in a Roswell Army Air Field base hangar and being present at a senior staff meeting where a cover-up of events was discussed. Haut also placed Brigadier General Roger M. Ramey head of the Eighth Army Air Force in Fort Worth, Texas, at the meeting. Ramey would later tell the press it was in fact a misidentified weather balloon after Haut had put out the press release of the recovered \"flying disc.\"\n\nIn December 2002, Haut also signed a sealed affidavit in which he went into more details about the craft, debris, bodies, and cover-up. Both the interview and affidavit were not to be released until after his death.\n\nThe full text of the affidavit was first published in June 2007 in the book \"Witness to Roswell: Unmasking the 60 Year Cover-Up\". According to the authors, Haut had sworn to his friend Colonel Blanchard not to reveal in his lifetime the events he witnessed and therefore told researchers either that he couldn't remember or that he had only prepared and released the information that was given to him at the time and denied he knew anything else.\n\nIn his affidavit, Haut stated that on July 8, 1947, following the press release he put out in the afternoon, he was taken out to a base hangar by Colonel Blanchard. There he saw an egg-shaped craft about 15 feet long and several small bodies about four feet tall with large heads. He was convinced the bodies were alien and had come from a crashed spacecraft.\n\nHaut also stated that there had been two major crash sites that he had become aware of the day before, the first a large debris field about 75 miles northwest of Roswell (the site investigated by Major Marcel), and the second, about 40 miles north of town, where the main craft and bodies were found. The north site had just been found by civilians on July 7, and apparently word had already gotten out about it in the public.\n\nAt the staff morning meeting on July 8, which Haut said he attended, key officers at the base were briefed and strange debris was handed around, which nobody could identify. Haut also said there was a discussion as to what the public was to be told. General Ramey had flown in to attend the meeting. Haut said Ramey suggested telling the public about the more distant debris field as a diversion from the more accessible and important body/craft site. He felt Ramey was following orders from The Pentagon. Haut added he was not aware at the time exactly what information was to be divulged. But the press release he put out a few hours later spoke of the more distant site in general terms, saying that the Army Air Force had come into possession of a \"flying disc\" with cooperation of a local rancher, and it was being flown on to \"higher headquarters\" after being examined at the base. \"Higher headquarters\" quickly turned out to be Gen. Ramey in Fort Worth, who within a few hours said the \"flying disc\" was a misidentified weather balloon.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5149701", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5149701", "title": "William Foege", "text": "William Foege\n\nWilliam Herbert Foege M.D., M.P.H.\n(; born March 12, 1936) is an American epidemiologist who is credited with \"devising the global strategy that led to the eradication of smallpox in the late 1970s\".\n\nFoege also \"played a central role\" in efforts that greatly increased immunization rates in developing countries in the 1980s.\n\nIn June 2011, he authored \"House on Fire: The Fight to Eradicate Smallpox,\" a book on modern science, medicine, and public health over the smallpox disease.\n\nFoege was born March 12 1936 in Decorah, Iowa. He was the third of six children born to William A. Foege, a Lutheran minister, and Anne Erika Foege. The family lived in Eldorado, Iowa in Fayette County, starting in 1936 and moved to Chewelah, Washington, in 1945.\n\nIn his younger days he was inspired by the life of his uncle, a Lutheran missionary to New Guinea. He became interested in science at age 13 when working at a pharmacy, and read extensively about the world (e.g., Albert Schweitzer's work in Africa) while in a body cast for several months at age 15. When a teenager he expressed a desire to practice medicine in Africa.\n\nFoege received a B.A. from Pacific Lutheran University in 1957. He attended medical school at the University of Washington, where he became interested in public health while working \"after school and on Saturdays\" at the Seattle–King County Health Department. After receiving his M.D. in 1961, he completed an internship with the United States Public Health Service hospital at Staten Island in 1961–1962.\n\nHe participated in the Epidemic Intelligence Service (EIS) of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) between 1962 and 1964, assigned to Colorado. When Foege was with the EIS, he was inspired by Alexander Langmuir to pursue global health, and spent a short time with the Peace Corps in India under Charles Snead Houston. Upon reading a lecture on priorities in public health by Thomas Huckle Weller, Foege entered the Master of Public Health program at the Harvard School of Public Health where he studied with Weller. He received his M.P.H. in 1965.\n\nFoege's research includes child survival and development, injury prevention, population, preventive medicine, and public health leadership—particularly in the developing world. He is a strong proponent of disease eradication and control and has taken an active role in the eradication of Guinea Worm Disease, polio and measles, and the elimination of river blindness.\n\nHe has held various positions during his career:\n\n\nAlso known as \"Bill Foege,\" he is noted for his height of . Foege and his wife Paula had three sons, the eldest of whom died in 2007. He has been described as a \"religious man\"; between 1997 and 2006 he served on the Board of Regents of Pacific Lutheran University.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4594928", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4594928", "title": "World Saxophone Congress", "text": "World Saxophone Congress\n\nThe World Saxophone Congress is a festival gathering approximately 1000 saxophonists and other musicians from all over the world. It is held every three years at a different congress centre in a different country and focuses primarily (although not exclusively) on the performance of classical saxophone music.\n\nThe Congress presents an opportunity to meet saxophonists from many countries and to listen to various concerts and performances of saxophone soloists, chamber ensembles, big bands and symphony orchestras that run simultaneously throughout the day in different halls of the congress centre. Each of the five days is concluded by an evening concert of the orchestra and outstanding international soloists. It is also convened with the purpose of presenting the advancements of music production and distribution as well as innovations in instrument-making and equipment.\n\nThe seventeenth and most recent World Saxophone Congress, known as SaxOpen, was held between July 9 and 14, 2015 in Strasbourg France. The eighteenth World Saxophone Congress is slated to be held in 2018 in Zagreb, Croatia. \n\nThe World Saxophone Congress was conceived by Paul Brodie (1934 - 2007) and co-founded in 1969 with Eugene Rousseau (b. 1932), holding their first Congress in Chicago. Eugene Rousseau writes:\nPaul Brodie himself recalls:\n\nIn 1981, a 7-member International Saxophone Committee (in French, Comite International du Saxophone, CIS). was set up to help organise the Congress.\n\nCongress performers/participants have included Frederick Hemke, Eugene Rousseau, Donald Sinta, Patrick Meighan, Bruce Faulconer, One O'Clock Lab Band, Lee Patrick, Ronald Caravan, Paul Brodie, Lin Chien-Kwan, Roger Greenberg, Debra Richtmeyer, Kyle Horch, the Scottish Saxophone Ensemble, the National Saxophone Choir of Great Britain, and Brian Brown\n\nThe World Saxophone Congress has been held in:\n\n"}
